OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 193 great many who were unhurt yet fell as if thunder­struck. Such were the changes of fortune on the leftwing of the Romans : on the right, Fahius had at firstprotracted the time, as we mentioned above, in slowoperations; then as soon as he perceived that neitherthe shout, nor the efforts of the enemy, nor the wea­pons which they threw, retained their former force,ordered the commanders of the cavalry to lead roundtheir squadrons to the wing of the Samnites, and, onreceiving the signal, to charge them in flank, with allpossible violence, he commanding at the same timehis infantry to advance leisurely and drive the enemyfrom their ground. When he saw that they were un­able to maintain their posts, and manifestly spent withfatigue, drawing together all his reserves, whom hebad kept fresh for that occasion, he made a brisk pushwith the legions, giving the cavalry the signal tocharge. The Samnites could not support the shock,but fled precipitately to their camp, passing by theline of the Gauls, and leaving their allies to fight bythemselves. These stood in close order under coverof their shields : Fabius, therefore, having heard ofthe death of his colleague, ordered the squadron ofCampanian cavalry, in number about five hundred, tofall back from the ranks, ride round, and attack therear of the Gallic line, sending the chief strength ofthe third legion after these, with directions that wher­ever they should see the enemy's troops disordered bythe charge, to follow the blow, and cut them to piecesbefore they recovered from their consternation. Aftervowing a temple and the spoils which might fall intohis hands to Jupiter the Victorious, he proceeded tothe camp of the Samnites, whither all their forceswere hurrying in confusion. The gates not affordingentrance to such very great numbers, those who werenecessarily excluded attempted resistance just at thefoot of the rampart, and here fell Gellius Egnatius theSamnite general. These however were soon drivenwithin the rampart; the camp was taken after a slightdispute ; and at the same time the Gauls were attacked LIV. VOL. III. N