OCR Output Chap. XJ THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 876 the governor was bound by the provincial statute to givea native judex and to allow him to decide according tolocal usage; in most of the provinces this seems to havedepended on the pleasure of the presiding magistrate. In the seventh century this absolute centralization of thepublic life of the Roman community in the one focus ofRome was given up, so far as Italy at least was concerned.Now that Italy was a single civic community and the civicterritory reached from the Arnus and Rubico down to theSicilian straits (P. 367), it was necessary to consent to theformation of smaller civic communities within that largerunit. So Italy was organized into communities of full bur­gesses ; on which occasion also the larger cantons that weredangerous from their size were probably broken up, sofar as this had not been done already, into several smallertown-districts (P. 234). The position of these new com­munities of full burgesses was a compromise between thatwhich had belonged to them hitherto as allied states, andthat which by the earlier law would have belonged to themas integral parts of the Roman community. Their basiswas in general the constitution of the former formallysovereign Latin community, or, so far as their constitu­tion in its principles resembled the Roman, that of theRoman old patrician-consular community; only care wastaken to apply to the same institutions in the municipiumnames different from, and inferior to, those used in the capi­tal, or, in other words, in the state. A burgess-assembly wasplaced at the head, with the prerogative of issuing municipalstatutes and nominating the municipal magistrates. A muni­cipal council of a hundred members acted the part of theRoman senate. The administration of justice was conductedby four magistrates, two regular judges corresponding to thetwo consuls, and two market-judges corresponding to thecurule aediles. The functions of the censorship, whichrecurred, as in Rome, every five years and, to all appearance,consisted chiefly in the superintendence of public buildings,were also undertaken by the supreme magistrates of thecommunity, namely the ordinary duumviri, who in this case as­sumed the distinctive title of duumviri " with censorial or quin­quennial power." The municipal funds were managed by twoquaestors. Religious functions primarily devolved on the twocolleges of men of priestly lore alone known to the earliestLatin constitution, the municipal Pontifices and Augurs.