OCR Output TRAUSI. 1223 TliEBIA. • Hit. ii. 8; Entrop. iii. 9; Flor. ii. 6. § 13; Onw.t. 11; V<L Max. L 6. § 6 ; 6H. Iul. i. 49, v. 1,if.; Orid, Fa*, vi. 770; Strab. v. p. 226.)The lake U now commonly known as the /."-/", l'ngia, though frequently called on maps and > fuide-books the Lago Trasimcno. [E. II. B.]TliAl'SI (T/muwoI, Herod. T. 3, 4; Thrausi,i>. ixxriii. 41), a Thracian people, who appear, initer times at least, to have occupied the SK. off-:uot» of Mount Kbodope, to the W. of the Hebrus,i<l about Tempyra. Herodotus tells us that thenui entertained peculiar notions respecting humanK which were manifested in appropriate customs,ben a child was bom, his kinsfolk, sitting aroundin, bewailed hia lot in baring to encounter theij««s of mortal existence; whereas when any one*d, they buried him with mirth and rejoicing, de-srisg him to hare been freed from great evils, and'be now in perfect bliss.* At to tin Thrausi spoken of by Liry, see I mi - nLA. Said** and Hesychiu* («. ».) mention a Scythianit* called the Trauai, who, according to Steph. B. 1. r), wen the same people as the Agathyrsi. Thet-iumed author speak* of a Celtic race also, bear-£ this appellation. Ou this slight foundation therange theory has been built that the Thracian-iu>i were the original stock of the Celts; and'ear of supporting this notion, its propounders ar-Iruily read Tpovo-of instead of rtpaixroi in Strabo,. p. 187, where Strabo expressly says that he waslaMe to state what was the original abode of thenasi: had he been writing about the Thracianrami we may safely assume that no such ignorance*itl hare been acknowledged. (Of. Ukert, U. 2.S30.) [J. R.]11UVUS (Tooioi, Herod, vii. 109), a small rirerthe & of Thrace, which falls into the a.uitj imtt, a shallow aestuary penetrating far into the»i. NK of Abdera. The Trarus is the principalshe for the drainage of that part of southerntrace which is included between the Nestns andI Hebrus. [J. K.] TKEBA or TKE'BIA. 1. (Elk. Trebiaa, litis:;. a municipal town of Umbria, situated at thetstemfeot of the Apennines, between Fulgiuinm and > sources of the Clitumnua, about 4 miles from thefer. It is mentioned by Pliny among the muni-ad cities of Umbria, and its name is found in an<r,ptHjo among the "xv l'opoji L'mbriae:" in111 these authorities the name of the people isittra Trehiatea. The Jerusalem Itinerary, whichices it on the Via Flaminia, 4 miles from Sacraria■ the sources of the Clitumnus) and 5 from Ful-unm, write* the Dame Treris, thus approximatingatly to the modem name of Trevi. The modem< n is still a considerable place standing on a hillich rise* abruptly from the valley of the Clitum- > (Plin. iii. 14.'*. 19; I tin. }Iier. p. 613; Orell.- »8). 2. (Toirta, l't ■: .; Elk. Trebanus: 7reW), a cityLalium, in the upper ralley of the Anio, about ■ ■•» from the sources of that rirer and 10 abovefourtr. It is mentioned both by Pliny and Fto-i». as well as by Frontinus, who calls it Treba•fusto (Plin. iii. 6. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 62; Fron- * Mela has followed Herodotus very closely in the■iwing passage (ii. 2): "Lugentur apud quosdam-rprria, nalique detientnr: tuners contra fosta sunt,irlati aaa tin. dt Aquatd. 93); and in an inscription, whichproves it to hare been a town of municipal rankunder the Koman Empire. (Orell. Inter. 4101.)But it* name is not mentioned in history, and itwas apparently never a place of importance, forwhich its secluded position is alone sufficient to ac­count. The ancient name and site are retained bythe modern Tillage of TVert, a poor place, surroundedon all sides by lofty mountains. [E. H. B.] TKE'BIA (A Tpffks: Trtibia), a considerableriver of Gallia Cispadana, falling into the Padusabout 2 miles W. of Placentia, From its proximityto the latter city Pliny designates it as " TrebiaaPlacentinus." (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20; Strab. r. p. 217.)It has its sources in the Ligurian Apennines nearMonttbruno, and has a courte of above 50 milesfrom thence to the Po. Throughout the greaterpart of this course it flows through a mountainralley, passing under the walls of Bobbiu (celebratedin the middle ages for its convent, from which someof the most valuable MSS. of ancient authors havebeen derived), and does not emerge from the hillswhich form the underfalls of the Apennines tillwithin about 12 miles of its month. For the re­mainder of its course it flows through the fertile plainof the Padus, and crosses the Via Aemilia about 3miles W. of Placentia. It appears probable that theTreble was fixed by Augustus as the western limitof the Eighth Region, and continued from that periodto be regarded as the limit of Gallia Cispadana to­wards Liguria. This is not distinctly stated, hutmay probably be inferred from the circumstance thatPlacentia waa situated in the Eighth Region, whileIris (Vogkera), the next town to the W., wascertainly in Liguria. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7, 15. s. 20.)Like most of the rirers which flow from theApennines, the Trebia rariea rery inach according tothe season: in summer it is but a scanty stream,winding through a broad bed of stones, but in winterand after beary rains it becomes a formidable torrent. The chief celebrity of the Trebia is derired from tirobattle which was fought on its banks in B.C. 2ISbetween Hannibal and the Roman consul Semprouius,and which was the first of the decisire rictories ob­tained by the Carthaginian general. Unfortunatelythe movements which preceded and led to tinsbattle, and the exact site on which it occurred, antrery difficult to determine. Scipio after bis defeaton the Ticinus had recrossed the Padus and with­drawn to Placentia, where the presence of a Romancolony afforded him a secure stronghold. Hannibalon the other hand effected his passage of the Paduahiglier up, abore its junction with the Ticinus, andthen adranced along the right bank of the rirer, tillhe approached Placentia, and established his campwithin 6 miles of that of Scipio. (Pol. iii. 66.)The defection of the Boian Gauls baring soon aftergiren the alarm to Scipio, he broke up his camp andwithdrew "to the hills that bordered the rirerTrebia." (/*. 67.) In this morement, it is clear,from what we are told immediately afterwards that,he croutd the river Trebia (lb. 68); his formercamp therefore, though in the neighbourhood ofPlacentia, most hare been on the VY. side of theTrebia. In this new position, which was one ofconsiderable natural strength (lb. 67), Scipio awaitedthe arrival of Sempronius with his army, who wasadrancing from Ariminum, and succeeded in effectinga junction with his colleague, without oppositionfrom Hannibal, (lb. 68.) The attention of theCarthaginian general had been apparently drawn off 4 1 4