OCR Output C. V.J THE TEMPLE. 183 midst [of the inmost court.] that most sacred part of thetemple, it was ascended to by twelve steps; and in front itsheight and its breadth were equal, and each a hundred cubits,though it was behind forty cubits narrower; for on its frontit had what may be styled shoulders on each side, that passedtwenty cubits farther. Its first gate was seventy cubits highand twenty-five cubits broad : but this gate had no doors, forit represented the universal visibility of heaven, and that itcannot be excluded from any place. Its front was coveredwith gold all over, and through it the first part of the house,that was more inward, did all of it appear, which, as it wasvery large, so did all the parts about the more inward gateappear to shine to those that saw them: but then, as the en­tire house was divided into two parts within, it was only thefirst part of it that was open to our view. Its height extendedall along to ninety cubits in height, and its length was fiftycubits, and its breadth twenty. But that gate which was atthe end of the first part of the house was, as we have alreadyobserved, all over covered with gold, as was its whole wallabout it: it had also golden vines above it, from which clus­ters of grapes hung as tall as a man's height. But then thishouse, as it wns divided into two parts, the inner part waslower than the appearance of the outer, and had golden doorsof fifty-five cubits altitude and sixteen in breadth; but beforethese doors there was a veil of equal largeness with the doors.It was a Babylonian curtain, embroidered with blue, and finelinen, and scarlet, and purple, and of a contexture that wastruly wonderful. Nor was this mixture of colors without itsmystical interpretation, but was a kind of image of the uni­verse ; for by the scarlet there seemed to be enigmaticallysignified fire, by the fine flax the earth, by the blue the air,and by the purple the sea; two of them having their colorsthe foundation of this resemblance; but the fine flax and thepurple have their own origin for that foundation, the earthproducing the one, and the sea the other. This curtain hadalso embroidered upon it all that was mystical in the heavens,excepting that of the [twelve] signs, representing livingcreatures.