OCR Output 154 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. recourse to arms, and to a battle for yourpunishment immediately; but, on account ofour kindred, and the probability that youmay be reclaimed, we have taken this methodof sending an ambassage; that when we havelearned the true reasons by which you havebeen moved to build this altar, we may neitherseem to have been too rash in assaulting youby our weapons of war, if it prove that youmade the altar for justifiable reasons, andmay then justly punish you, if the accusationprove true; for we can hardly suppose thatyou, who have been acquainted with the willof God, and have been hearers of those lawswhich he himself hath given us, now you areseparated from us, and gone to that patrimonyof yours, which you, through the grace ofGod, and that providence he exercises overyou, have obtained by lot, can forget him, andcan leave that ark, and that altar which ispeculiar to us, and can introduce strangegods, and imitate the wicked practices of theCanaanites. Now this will appear to havebeen a small crime, if you repent now, andproceed no farther in your madness, but paya due reverence to, and keep in mind, thelaws of your country. But if you persist inyour sins, we will not grudge our pains topreserve your laws, but will pass over Jor­dan, and defend them, and defend God also;and shall esteem of you as of men no waydiffering from the Canaanites, but shall de­stroy you in the like manner as we destroyedthem; for do not you imagine that becauseyou are got over the river you are beyond thereach of God's power. You are every wherein places that belong to him, and it is impos­sible to overrun his power, and the punish­ment he will bring on men thereby. But ifyou think that your settlement here will beany obstruction to your conversion to what isgood, nothing need hinder us from dividingthe land anew, and leaving this old land tobe for the feeding of sheep; but you will dowell to return to your duty, and to leave offthese new crimes. And we beseech you, byyour wives and children, not to force us topunish you. Take therefore such measuresin this assembly, as supposing that your ownsafety, and the safety of those that are dearestto you. is therein concerned; and believe thatit is better for you to be conquered by words, than to continue in your purpose, and therebyto experience deeds and war." When Phineas had discoursed thus, thegovernors of the assembly, and the wholemultitude, began to make an apology forthemselves, concerning what they were ac­cused of; and they said, "We neither willdepart from the relation we bear to you, norhave we built the altar in way of innovation;we own one and the same God with all theHebrews, and that brazen altar which is be­fore the tabernacle, on which we will offer oursacrifices. As to the altar we have raised,on account of which we are thus suspected,it was not built for worship; but that it mightbe a sign and a monument of our relation toyou for ever; and a necessary caution to us toact wisely, and to continue in the laws of ourcountry; but not a handle for transgressingthem, as you suspect. And let God be ourauthentic witness, that this was the occasionof our building this altar. Whence we begyou will have a better opinion of us; and donot impute such a thing to us as would renderany of the posterity of Abraham well worthyof perdition; in case they attempt to bring innew rites, and such as are different from ourusual practices." When they had made this answer, andPhineas had commended them for it, he cameto Joshua, and explained before the peoplewhat answer they had received. Now Joshuawas glad that he was under no necessity ofsetting them in array, or of leading them toshed blood, and make war against men thatwere of their own kindred; and accordinglyhe offered sacrifices of thanksgiving to Godfor the same; so Joshua, after that, dissolvedthis great assembly of the people. and sentthem to their own inheritances, while himselflived at Shechem. But in the* twentieth yearafter this, when he was very old, he sent forthose of the greatest dignity in the severalcities, with those in authority, and the senate;and gathered together as many of the com­mon people as he could; and when they werecome, he put them in mind of all the benefitsGod had bestowed on them; which could notbut be a great many, since from a low estatethey were advanced to so great a degree ofglory and plenty; and exhorted them to take * An. 1467.