OCR Output IRIS. ISAURIA. 65 now called YecJal or Yeldl Irmalc. (Hamilton, Re­searches, vol. i. p. 340.) [L. S.] IRIS. [Iernk.] I KITS or IRA ("Ipot or'Ipd), a town of Malis, ofuncertain site, (Steph. B. *. w. ; Lycophr. 903.) IS ("It, Herod, i. 179), a town of Mesopotamia,f i*ht days' journey N. of Babylon, situated, accord­ing: to Herodotus, on a stream of the same name,which brought down the bitumen which was used inthe construction of the walls of Babylon. There isno reason to doubt that it is represented by thelO'xlern Hit. There does not appear to be any riverat present at Hit, but a small stream may have beeneasily blocked up by the sand of ages. There arestill bitumen springs in the neighbourhood of thisplace. It has been conjectured that the 'l£avvwir6-ro\tf of Isidorus (p. 5) refers to the same town.(Kilter, Erdhunde, vol. ii. p. 148; Kennell, Geogr.of Herod, p. 552.) [V.] 1SACA, in Britain, a river mentioned by Ptolemy(ii. 3. § 4) as lying west of the outlet of the Ta-marus (Tamar). In the Monumenta Britannica,Isacae ostia are identified with Weymouth, and alsowith pxmouth; most probably the latter, name fornan*, as well as place for place. In the Geographerof Ravenna the form is Isca, which is preferable.[Isca.] [R. G. L.] ISAllICI (EiiaJiKOi), a people whom Strabo(ii. p. 506) couples with the Troglodytae and othertribes of the Caucasus. The name may imply someilellrtuc fancy about savage justice and virtue.(Coinp. Groskurd, adloc.) [E. B. J.] ISAJIN'IUM, in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy(ii. 2. j S) m a promontory north of the Bubinda(river Bo*me) = St. Johns Foreland, Clogher Head,Ihmany Point, BalUuhan Point (?). [R. G. L.] ISANNAVATIA, in Britain, mentioned in the6th Itinerary as lying between Lactodurum andTnprtUium. It is a name of some difficulty, sinceneither of the places on each side of it has beenidentified. (See tw.) In the Geographer of Ra­venna we find a Bannovallum, and in the 8th Itine­rary a Bannovantum. Probably these two namesare identical. At any rate, Bannovantum = Isanna­vatia, i-inee each is 28 miles from Magiovinium.Thus, in the 6th Itinerary, we have:— Magiovinio M. P. Lactodoro - -' xvi. Isannavatia - - xii=xxviii. And in the 8th :— M. P. Bannavanto Magiuvinio - - xxviii. It is only safe to say that Isannavatia was a town inthe southern part of Northamptonshire, probablyItor+ntry. The Itinerary in which it occurs hasonly two names beyond doubt, viz. Verulamium andLindnm (St. A tban's and Lincoln). Daventry, how­ever, is Horsley's identification. In more than onemap of Roman Britain, Bannovallum is placed inLincolnshire- This is because it is, in the first place,■rparated fmin Bannovantum, and then fixed on therivrr Bum, a Lincolnshire river. This is the meaning< f Uvnicuslle being given as its equivalent. Therlian-re, however, and the assumption, are equallygratuitous. [R. G. L.] rSARA, the river. 1. [Insula.] 2. The Lsara, which was a branch of the Seqnana,has its name preserved in the Celtic name of a placewhich was on it, named Briva Isarae. [BkivaIsabae.] Tlie Celtic element /* has become Oise,the modern came of the river, which is the same vol. n. word as the English Owe. D'Anvillc says that thename Isara in the middle ages became Esia or Aesia.Vibius Sequester mentions a river Esia which flowsinto the Sequana; but D'Anville suspects the passageto be an interpolation, though it is impossible tojudge what is interpolation in such a strange book asVibius Sequester. Oberlin, the editor of VibiusSequester, maintains the passage to be genuine (p.110). [G. L.] 3. [Lutu.] ISARCI, a Rhaetian tribe dwelling about themouth of the river Isarus (Plin. iii. 24), from whichit appears to have derived its name. [L. S.] ISARGUS. [Ilargus.] ISARUS ("lo-aooi : the Isar), a river of theRhaetian Alps, flowing from an Alpine lake, and ina southern direction until it joins the Athesis nearPons Drusi. (Strab. iv. p. 207, where the "laapos(or o) is said to receive the Atagis (Athesis); eithera mistake of Strabo himself, or by a transcribertransposing tho names. Coinp. Ilakus.) [L. S.] ISAURA (t4 "laavpa: Eth. 'Io*«up*us), the ca­pital of Isauria, situated iu the south-west of thecountry; it was a wealthy, populous, and well-forti­fied city at the foot of Mount Taurus. Of its earlierhistory nothing is known; but we learn from Dio-dorus (xviii. 22) that when it was besieged by Pcr-diccas, and the inhabitants were no longer able tohold out, they set fire to the city, and destroyedthemselves with all they possessed. Large quantitiesof molten gold were found afterwards by the Mace­donians among the ashes and ruins. The town wasrebuilt, but was destroyed a second time by the Ro­man Servilius Isauricus, and thenceforth it remaineda heap of ruins. Strabo (xii. p. 568) states thatthe place was ceded by the Romans to Amyntas ofGalatia, who built out of the ruins of the ancientcity a new one in the neighbourhood, which he sur­rounded with a wall; but he did not live to completethe work. In the third century of our nera isaurawas the residence of the rival emperor Trebellianus(Trebell. Poll. XXX. Ttjran. 25); but in the timeof Amrnianus Marccllinus (xiv. 8) nearly all tracesof its former magnificence had vanished. At a laterperiod it is still mentioned, under the name Isauro-polis, as a town in the province of Lycaonia. (Hierocl.p. 675; Concil. Chalced. p. 673; comp. Strab. xiv,p. 665; Ptol. v. 4. § 12; Steph. B. s. v.; Plin. v.27.) Of Old Isaura no ruins appear to be found,though DAnvillc and others have identified it withthe modern Bei Shcher; they also believe that SeidiShelter occupies the site of New Isaura, while sometravellers regard Serki Serai as the representativeof New Isaura; but Hamilton (Researches, vol. ii.pp. 330, foil.) has given good reasons for thinkingthat certain ruins, among which are the remains ofa triumphal arch of the emperor Hadrian and a gate­way, on a hill near the village of Olou Bounar markthe site of New Isaura. The walls of the city canstill be traced all around the place. The Isaurianswere a people of robbers, and the site of their citywas particularly favourable to such a m<«le of life.[Isauria.] [L. S.] ISAU'KIA (h \aavfia), a district in Asia Minor,bordering in the east on Lycaonia, in the north onPhrygia, in the west on Pisidia, and in the south onCilicia and Pamphylia. Its inhabitants, living in awild and rugged mountainous country, were littloknown to the civilised nations of antiquity. Thecountry contained but few towns, which existedespecially in the northern part, which was less