OCR Output AN. 1158.] 177 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the)r sent for Sampson, and he was brought totheir feast, that they might insult him in theircups. Hereupon he, thinking it one of thegreatest misfortunes if he should not be ableto revenge himself, when he was thus insult­ed, persuaded the boy that led him by thehand, that he was weary and wanted to resthimself; and desired he would bring himnear the pillars. And as soon as he came tothem, he rushed with force against them; andoverthrew the house, by overturning its pil­lars, with three thousand men in it,* whowere all slain, and himself with them. Andsuch was the end of Sampson, when he hadruled over the Israelitesf twenty years. Andindeed this man deserves to be admired forhis courage, and strength, and his magna­nimity at his death; and that his wrath againsthis enemies went so far as to die himself withthem. But as for his being ensnared by awoman, that is to be ascribed to humannature, which is too weak to resist the temp­tations to that sin. But we ought to bearhim witness, that in all other respects he wasone of extraordinary virtue. His kindredtook away his body, and buried it in Sarasai,his own country, with the rest of his family. CHAP. IX. OF THE MARRIAGE OF BOOZ AND RUTH; FROM WHOM CAMEOBED, THE GRANDFATHER OF DAVID. NOW after the death of Sampson, Eli, thehigh-priest, was governor of the Israel­ites. Under him.f when the country was af­flicted with a famine, Elimelech, of Bethle­hem, which is a city of the tribe of Judah,being not able to support his family under sosore a distress, took with him Naomi his wife,and the children that were born to him by her, Chilion and Mahlon; and removed hishabitation into the land of Moab; and uponthe happy prosperity of his affairs there, hetook for his sons wives of the Moabites,Orpah for Chilion, and Ruth for Mahlon.But in the compass of ten years both Eli­melech, and a little while after him the sons,died; and Naomi being very uneasy at theseaccidents, and not able to bear her lonesomecondition, now those that were dearest to herwere dead, on whose account it was that shehad gone away from her own country, shereturned to it again; for she had been informedthat it was now in a flourishing condition.However, her daughters-in-law were not ableto think of parting with her; and when theyhad a mind to go out of the country with her,she could not dissuade them from it. Butwhen they insisted upon it, she wished thema more happy wedlock than they had withher sons, and that they might have prosperityin other respects also; and, seeing her ownaffairs were so low, she exhorted them tostay where they were, and not to think ofleaving their own country, and partakingwith her of that uncertainty, under whichshe must return. Accordingly Orpah stayedbehind; but she took Ruth along with her, asshe could not be persuaded to stay behind,but would share her fortune, whatsoever itshould prove.|| When Ruth was come with her mother-in-law to Bethlehem, Booz, who was nearof kin to Elimelech, entertained her. Andwhen Naomi was so called by her fellow-citizens, according to her true name, shesaid, "You might more truly call me Mara."Now Naomi signifies, in the Hebrew tongue,Happiness; and Mara, Sorrow. It was nowreaping time; and Ruth, by the leave ol altogether with some plain or cloistered buildings. Sev­eral palaces and dau-wanas, as they called the courts ofjustice in these countries, are built in this fashion; whereupon their festivals or rejoicings a great quantity of sandis strewed upon the area for the wrestlers to fall upon,whilst the roof of the cloisters round about is crowdedwith spectators of their strength and agility. I haveoften seen several hundreds of people diverted in thisimnner upon the roof of the dey's palace at Algiers,which, like many more of the same quality and denomi­nation, hath an advanced cloister over against the gate ofthe palace, Esther v. 1. made in the fashion of a largepent-house, supported only by one or two contiguous pil­lars in the front, or else in the centre. In such openstructures as these, in the midst of their guards and counsellors, are the bashas, kadeeSj and other great offi­cers, assembled to distribute justice, and transact thepublic affairs of their provinces. Here, likewise, theyhave their public entertainments, as the lords and othersof the Philistines had in the house of Dagon. Upon a sup­position, therefore, that in the house of Dagon, there wasa cloistered structure of this kind, the pulling down of thefront or centre pillars only, which supported it, would beattended with the like catastrophe that happened to thePhilistines." Shaw't Travels, p. 283. B. * Judg, xvi. 27, 30. T From about 1158 to 1138 B. C. t According to the date, (1350) it must have been longbefore the government of Eli. II Ruthi. 19