OCR Output 3ta NOTES ON THE on the sea of generation. Her rudder too is fixed on a globs,because slie directs that which is unstable in generation. Iu herother hand ihe holds the horn of Amullhea, which is full of fruits,because (he is the cause oi obtaining all divine fruits. And onthis account we venerate the fortunes of cities and houses, and ofeach individual; because, being veiy remote from divine union,we are in danget of being deprived of iu participation, and re­quire in order to obtain it the assistance os the goddess Fortune,and of those natures* superior to the human who possess the cha-racteiistic of this divinity. Indeed every fortune is good; for every■ attainment refpeBssomething good, nor dtes any thing evilJuhfifl fromdivinity. But of thing) good some are preccdan:ous, and others areof a punishing or revenging charaBerijlic, which <we are acctiftomed tocall evils. Hence lue speak of two Fortunes, one of which we de-nominate GOOD, and which is the cause of our obtaining preceaancoutgoods, and ihe other evil, which prepares us to receive punishment orrevenge." From this beautiful passage it is easy to see why Fortune in theOrphic hymns is called Diana; for each of these divinities governsthe sublunary world. At the same time it is a singular circum­stance, that among the images of Fortune in Montfaucon there isbut one with a rudder on a globe. Page 425. Iliad.'] Minerva, and Enyo, or BeVona, are men­tioned together, Iliad 5. v. 333. Nuptials are4faid to be taken careof by Venus. Iliad 5. ver. 429. Page 430. Particularly by riato, the son of jfri/Ion.'] ThatPlato firmly believed in the immortality of the foul, is evidentfrom his Phatdrus, the tenth book of his Republic, and his seventhepistle, which contains the following remarkable passage: t»9w-Sai Si ct?»j an yjp Toi; roAcuoif ti not iifcif Aeyoi; S ct) fintiovau«$«iu1o» f,v}r,i i;im, «a,-e; ti if; sn, x<u TWM T»{ («:'.'-».; ii^i'w*:,olai ti{ ara^ax^yi rov ffa/uetV. i.e. "It is proper indeed always tobelieve in ancient and sacred discourses, which announce to u» * i. e. Augels, dæmons, and heraes. that