OCR Output 464 THEHISTORT BOOK tax to be paid, and confequently no remittances were,^_ -T'-_J made to the generals for the payment of the troops,Y.K. 35+. and the foldiers clamoroufly demanded their pay,B.C.398. there was the greateft danger that the contagion offedition might fpread from the city, and the campallb be involved in confufion. Though the com­mons were ib much incenfed againft the patricians,and the plebeian tribunes afierted, that now the time* was come for cftablifhing liberty, and transferringthe fupreme dignity from fuch as Sergius and Vir-ginius, to men of plebeian rank, men of fortitude andinduftry, yet they proceeded no farther in gratifica­tion of their paffion, than the election of one ple-y.T;. ;;'. K.ian, Publius Licinius Calvus, to the office of mi-''" 3j';'' Jitary tribune with confular power, for the purpofeof eftablifhing their right by a precedent. Theothers elected were patricians, Publius Maenius,Lucius Titinius, Publius Maelius, Lucius FuriusMedullinus, and Lucius Publilius Volfcus. Thecommons themfelves were furprifed at their havingcarried fuch an important point, no lefs than theman himfelf who had been elected, a perfon who hadno poft of honour before, although afenatorof longHanding, and now far advanced in years. Nor doesit fufficiently appear why he was chofen, in preferencetoothers, to tafte the firft fweets of this new dignity.Some are of opinion, that he was elected to fo higha ftation by the influence of his brother Cneius Cor­nelius, who had been military tribune the precedingyear, and had given triple pay to the cavalry.Others, that it was owing to a feafonable difcourfe,made by himfelf, recommending harmony betweenthe orders of the ftate, which was equally accepta­ble to the patricians and plebeians. The plebeiantribunes, filled with exultation by this victory in theelection, remitted their oppofition with refpect to thetax, which was the principal obftruction to the pub­lic bufinefs. It was then paid in without murmur­ing, and lent to the army. XIII. IN