OCR Output A. D.21.] 177 OF TACIT0S. ancient patrician family of the Sulpicii. He wasborn at Lanuvium, a municipal town: he distinguish足ed himself by his military services, had considerabletalents for business, and was raised by Augustus tothe honour of the consulship. Having afterwardsstormed and taken the strong holds of the Homona-densians in Cilicia, he obtained triumphal honours.He attended Caius Caisar in his expedition to Arme足nia, the chief director of his councils, and made useof that opportunity to pay his court with secrecy, toTiberius, while that prince resided in the isle ofRhodes. This anecdote Tiberius mentioned in hisletter; declaring himself, in gracious terms, wellpleased with the good offices of Quirinius, and at thesame time, reflecting with a degree of acrimony onMarcus Lollius, to whose conduct he imputed thedissensions between himself and Caius Csesar. Butthe character of Quirinius was held in no esteem; hisunrelenting prosecution of Lepida, already related,was still remembered ; and the sordid avarice of theman, even in old age, and in the height of power, lefta stain upon his memory. XLIX. The year closed with a prosecution of asingular nature. Caius Lutorius Priscus, a Romanknight, was the author of an applauded poem on thedeath of Germanicus, and for his composition hadreceived a reward from Tiberius. The crime laid tohis charge was, that, when Drusus lay ill, he preparedanother elegy, from which he hoped, if the youngprince died, to derive still greater emolument. Withthe vanity of a poet, Lutorius read his verses at thehouse of Publius Petronius, in the presence of Vitel-lia, the mother-in-law of that senator. Several wo足men of distinction were of the party. As soon as theprosecutor opened the heads of his accusation, theconfidential friends of the author were struck withterror. The fact was admitted by all, except Vitellia:she had the memory of a liberal-minded woman, andcould recollect nothing. Credit, however, was givento the rest of the evidence. Haterius Agrippa, con足sul elect, was the first to give his opinion: he proposedthat the unfortunate poet should suffer death.