OCR Output A. D. 18.] 116 OF TACITUS. LIV. From Athens Germanicus sailed to the islandof Eubcea, and thence to Lesbos, where Agrippina wasdelivered of a daughter, called Julia, the last of herchildren. From Lesbos he pursued his voyage alongthe coast of Asia; and, after visiting Perinthus andByzantium, two cities of Thrace, sailed through thestraits of the Propontic, into the Euxine Sea, led bycuriosity to visit places renowned in story. In his pro­gress he attended every where to the complaints ofthe inhabitants, whom he found distracted by theirown intestine divisions, or labouring under the tyran­ny of the magistrates. He redressed grievances, andestablished good order, wherever he went. On his return from the Euxine, he intended to visitSamothraeia, famous for its rites and mysteries; butthe wind springing up from the north, he was obligedto bear away from the coast. He viewed the ruins ofTroy, and the remains of antiquity in that part of theworld, renowned for so many turns of fortune, thetheatre of illustrious actions, and the origin of theRoman people. He landed next at Colophon, to con­sult the oracle of the Clarian Apollo. The responsesat this place were not delivered, like those at Delphos,by a Pythian maid: a priest officiates, chosen by cus­tom out of certain privileged families, and generallya citizen of Miletus. From such as apply to him, herequires nothing but their number and their names.Content with these particulars, he descends into acavern; and, after drinking from a secret spring,though untinctured with learning, and a stranger topoetry, he breaks out in a strain of enthusiastic verse,on the subject of every man's hopes and fears. Heis said to have foretold the approaching fate of Ger­manicus, but in the oracular style, dark and enigma­tical. LV. Piso, in the mean time, impatient to executehis evil purposes, made his entry into Athens, andwith the tumult of a rude and disorderly train, alarm­ed the city. In a public speech he thought fit to de­claim against the inhabitants, obliquely glancing atGermanicus, who, he said, by ill-judged condescen­sions, had impaired the dignity of the Roman name..