OCR Output 26 ANTIQUITIES OF .THE JEWS. Book IX. also opened that armoury which David had made in the temple,and distributed to the captains of hundreds, as also to the priestsand Levites, all the spears and quivers, and what kind ofweapons soever it contained, and set them armed in a circle roundabout the temple; so as to touch one another's hands, and by thatmeans excluding those from entering that ought not to enter.So they brought the child into the midst of them, and, put onhim the royal crown, and Jehoiada anointed him with the oil,and made him king; and the multitude rejoiced; and made anoise, and cried, "God save the king." 3. When Athaliah unexpectedly heard the tumult and theacclamations; she was greatly disturbed in her mind, and sud­denly issued out of the royal palace with her own army; andwhen she was come to the temple, the priests received her, butas for those that stood round about the temple, as they wereordered by the high priest to do, they hindered the armed menthat followed her from going in. But when Athaliah saw thechild standing upon a pillar, with the royal crown upon his head,she rent her clothes, and cried out vehemently, and commanded[her guards] to kill him that had laid snares for her, and endea­voured to deprive her of the government: But Jehoiada calledfor the captains of hundreds, and commanded them to bringAthaliah to the valley of Cedron, and slay her there, for hewould not have the temple defiled with the punishment of thispernicious woman ; and he gave order, that if any one came nearto help her, he should be slain also: wherefore those that had thecharge of her slaughter, took hold of her, and led her to thegate of the kings' mules, and slew her there. 4. Now as soon as what concerned Athaliah was by thisstratagem, after this manner despatched, Jehoiada called togetherthe people and the armed men into the temple, and made themtake an oath that they would be obedient to the king, and takecare of his safety, and of the safety of his government; afterwhich he obliged the king to give security [upon oath] that hewould worship God, and not transgress the laws of Moses. Theythen ran to the house of Baal, which Athaliah and her husbandJehoram had built, to the dishonour of the God of their fathers,and to the honour of Ahab, and demolished it, and slew Matan,that had his priesthood. But Jehoiada entrusted the care andCustody of the temple to the priests and Levites, according tothe appointment of king David, and enjoined them to bringtheir regular burnt-offerings twice a-day, and to offer incenseaccording to the law. He also ordained some of the Levites,with the porters, to be a guard to the temple, that no one ths:was defiled might come there. 5. And when Jehoiada had set these things in order, he, with