OCR Output 128 THE DECLINE AND FALL policy instituted by Augustus. But the youth of Severus had beentrained in the implicit obedience of camps, and his riper years spentin the despotism of military command. His haughty and inflexiblespirit could not discover, or would not acknowledge, the advantageof preserving an intermediate power, however imaginary, betweenthe emperor and the army. He disdained to profess himself theservant of an assembly that detested his person and trembled at hisfrown; he issued his commands, where his request would haveproved as effectual; assumed the conduct and style of a sovereign anda conqueror, and exercised, without disguise, the whole legislative aswell as the executive power.N«w maxims The victory over the senate was easy and inglorious. Every eyer^/preroga* ant* ever7 passion were directed to the supreme magistrate, who pos-tive* sessed the arms and treasure of the state; whilst the senate, neither elected by the people, nor guarded by the military force, nor ani­mated by public spirit, rested its declining authority on the frail andcrumbling basis of ancient opinion. The sine theory of a republicinsensibly vanished, and made way for the more natural and sub­stantial feelings of monarchy. As the freedom and honours of Romewere successively communicated to the provinces, in which the oldgovernment had been either unknown, or was remembered withabhorrence, the tradition of republican maxims was gradually obli­terated. The Greek historians of the age of the Antonines 70 ob­serve, with a malicious pleasure, that although the sovereign of Rome,in compliance with an obsolete prejudice, abstained from the nameof king, he possessed the full measure of regal power. In the reignof Severus, the senate was silled with polished and eloquent slavesfrom the eastern provinces, who justified personal flattery by specu­lative principles of servitude. These new advocates of prerogativewere heard with pleasure by the court, and with patience by thepeople, when they inculcated the duty of passive obedience, and des­canted on the inevitable mischiefs of freedom. The lawvers and the