OCR Output 10 LIVY. Lucius Arennius, interposed. They asserted that' there-electing of the same person to the supreme magis­tracy was not easily reconcilable to the principles of arepublic; and much more pernicious would the pre­cedent be, if the very person who presided at the elec­tion were himself to be chosen. If therefore the dic­tator admitted his own name in the list of candidates,they would protest against the election; but if he re­ceived on the list any other except himself, they wouldgive no obstruction to the business.' The dictatormaintained the propriety of the proceedings of the as­sembly, on the grounds of a vote of the senate, anorder of the people, and several precedents: for ' inthe consulate of Cneius Servilius, wheu the other con­sul Cains Flaminius had fallen at the Thrasymenus,the question was, by direction of the senate, proposedto the people, and the people ordered that so long asthe war continued in Italy it should be lawful forthem to re-elect to the consulship, and that as often asthey should see proper, any of those who had alreadyheld that office. As to precedents in point, he had oneof ancient date, in the case of Lucius Postumius Me-gellus, who, while be was interrex, was, in the assem­bly where he himself presided, created consul, withCaius Junius Bubulcus; and a recent one, in the caseof Quintus Fabius, who certainly would never havesuffered himself to be re-elected if it were inconsistentwith the public good.' After long dispute, maintainedby these arguments, an agreement at last took placebetween the dictator and the tribunes to abide by thedetermination of the senate. The senators were ofopinion that the present state of the commonwealthwas such as required that the administration of itsaffairs should be in the hands of experienced com­manders, skilled in all the arts of war; and theytherefore disapproved of any opposition to the pro­ceedings of the assembly of election. The tribunesthen acquiesced, and the election proceeded. QuintusFabius Maximus a fifth time, and Quintus FulviusFlaccus a fourth, were declared consuls. The follow-