OCR Output ROMA. of F»lisd, or rather Falerii, and tlie erfctionQrjadrifrons on the Forum Transitorium,not exist till many centuries afterwards?» indicates the Janus-temple of Numa asthe Argiletam (" Janum ad infimum Ar-todicem pacis belliqua fecit," i. 19); whenceconclude that it was a district lying on the'the Jorum. We do not think, however,(Handb. p. 261), that any proof can bethe words of Virgil (Aen. viii. 345, seq),—. with a poetical license, tho various places arewithout regard to their order t called Argitetum may harehy the imperial for* it is ls> say. of Caesar most have been very splendid,temple of Venus stood a statue of the- which would suffer nobody butlim, and whose fore-feet are saidthose of a human being (Suet.CI; Plin. riii. 64). The temple waswith pictures by the best Greek artists,d with many precious offerings (Plin.•rt. ex. 57, xxxrii. 3, .v.). It was one of the> f-wa drr.ftrd to legal business, the other two■ t.w Koran Bomanum and August!: — _, inquis, agam Cicerone disertius ipsoAtxjor erit in triplici par mihi nemo foro." (Mart. iii. 38. 2.)aar it was mr used for assemblies of thei ueaajaa doubtful; at all events the passager» backer (Hamuli, p. 369) from Tacitus (Ann.E I |«aiai nothing, as the word curia thereto point to the Curia Julia. Of the subsequentr af tbm Forum Caesaria but little is known,aara to ban* escaped the fire of Nero; but it ismni asncang the buildings restored by DiocletianQbf Srai Busier Cannua (" Opera publics arse-.-smtajn. forum. Caesaris patriiiHMiium, Basi-lauaaa et Graecostadium, fatal. Imp. Yimn.——to Preller, Reg. p. 143, we must} —-mm Caesaris, Atrium Minenrae.") It istod aa tike Ordu Romania, in the year 1143,7 then bavre been a ruin,■a J ay ft".— This forum was constructed for.11 *\- * -f ;*ir.'rjnij mi.rc ammnii"<l:itiuntrad baaineaa, which bad now increased toi extent that the Forum Roman am and Forum- i- for ::. It included in its areaptt oar Mails Ui.tor, vowed by Augustusi» 1 tar which he bad undertaken to avenge ROMA. 799shape (Palladio, Archil, iv.), with porticoes, in whichAugustus erected the statues of the most eminentRoman generals. On each side of the temple weresubsequently erected triumphal arches in honour ofGermanicos and Drusua, with their statues (Tac.Ann. ii. 64). The temple is said to have been verysplendid (Plin. zxxvi. 54), and was adorned,as well as the forum, with many works of art (/6.vii. 53, xxxiv. 18, xxxv. 10; Ov. Fast. v. 555, &c).The Salii were accustomed to banquet here; and ananecdote is recorded of the emperor Claudius, thatonce when he was sitting in judgment in this forum,he was so attracted by the savoury odour of thedinner preparing for these priests, that he quittedthe tribunal and joined their party. (Suet. Claud.33.) This anecdote has partly served to identifythe site of the temple, an inscription having beendiscovered on one of the remaining walls in whichthe Salii and their Mansiones are mentioned (Canina,Foro Rom. p. 150). The remains of three of the columns, with theirentablature, of the temple of Mars Ultor are still tobe seen near the place called the Arco de Pantani.It must therefore have adjoined the back of theForum Caesaris. These three columns, which aretall and handsome, are of the Corinthian order. Allwe know respecting the history of the ForumAugnsti is that it was restored by Hadrian (Spart.Hadr. 19). The church of S. Basilio was probablybuilt on the site of the temple (Onto Horn. 1143;Mabill. A/us. Jtal. ii. p. 143> WARS ULTOR. aW, et aaiia scelerato sanguine ferrum,*'taa ffavror cauisa pro meliore tnus.yt. fanes, et, me victore, vocaberis Ultor.ewat, ct fuso laetus ab hoste redit." (Or. Fast v. 575, seq.)ly* was appointed to be the place where* timid consult aboot wars and triumphs,cam irpperio should be conferred,nerals should deposit the in-(Saet.Aug.39). The forumsmaller scale than AugustusI ai, banaaae be could not obtain the consent-■^fcarnaff householders to part with their(/Lift). It was opened for business before- »u finiaiaad, which was dedicated B. c.>. Veil Pas. ii. 100). The forum ex-ata sad* at the temjJe in a semicircular Forum Transitorium or Forum A'errae.—Thisforum was begun by Domitian, but completed anddedicated by Nerva (Suet. Ann. 5; Aur. Vict. Caer.1- ). We have said that LXimitian had a particularpredilection for Minerva, and he founded a largeAkdks Mimervak in this fornm (" bedicato priusfuro, quod appellatur Pervium, quo aedes Minervae-eminentior consnrgit et mognificentior," A. Vict. lb.).From this circumstance it was also called ForumPalladium (*'Liinina post Pacis Palladiumque furuni,"Mart. i. 2. 8); besides which it also had the nameof Pervium or Transitorium, apparently because itwas traversed by a street which connected the N.| and S. sides of the city, which was not the easewith the other font (Siebuhr, in the BeschreibtmgRams, iii. p. 282). Thus Lampridius (A lex. Sev. 28):"In foro Divi Nervae, quod Transitoriuin dicitur;"and Aurellus Victor in the passage just cited. Fromthe line of Martial's before quoted, it appear?* to haveadjoined the temple of Peace, erected by Vespasian,which we shall have occasion to describe in anothersection. There appears to have stood upon it atemple, or rather perhaps fourfold archway of Julius(Juodrifrons, probably somewhat resembling thatwhich still exists near 5. Georgio in I'tUibrtt, con­necting the roads which led to the four differentforums, namely, the Forum llomantim, Forum Cae­saris, Forum Nervae, and Forum Pacis, as Vesi«sian'stemple of Peace was sometimes called. The juxsaage