OCR Output 76 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. The emperor refused, at the return of each fifth year,the customary donative of five pieces of gold, reduced hisveterans to beg their bread, and suffered unpaid armiesRemit- to melt away in the wars of Italy and Persia. II. The«Doei. humanity of his predecessors had always remitted, insome auspicious circumstance of their reign, the arrearsof the public tribute; and they dexterously assumed themerit of resigning those claims, which it was impracti­cable to enforce. "Justinian, in the space of thirty-twoyears, has never granted a similar indulgence; and manyof his subjects have renounced the possession of thoselands, whose value is insufficient to satisfy the demandsof the treasury. To the cities, which had suffered byhostile inroads, Anastasius promised a general exemptionof seven years: the provinces of Justinian have been ra­vaged by the Persians and Arabs, the Huns and Sclavo-nians; but his vain and ridiculous dispensation of a singleyear has been confined to those places which were actu­ally taken by the enemy." Such is the language of thesecret historian, who expressly denies that any indul­gence was granted to Palestine after the revolt of theSamaritans; a false and odious charge, confuted by theauthentic record, which attests a relief of thirteen cen­tenaries of gold (52,000/.), obtained for that desolateprovince by the intercession of St. Sabas.q III. Pro-copius has not condescended to explain the systemof taxation^ which fell like a hail-storm upon the land,like a devouring pestilence on its inhabitants; but weshould become the accomplices of his malignity, if weimputed to Justinian alone, the ancient though rigorousprinciple, that a whole district should be condemned tosustain the partial loss of the persons or property of in-Taxes." dividuals. The Anona, or supply of corn for the use ofthe army and capital, was a grievous and arbitrary ex- 1 One to Scythopolis, capital of the second Palestine, and twelve for the rest ofthe province. Alenian. (p. 59.) honestly prodnces this fact from a MS. life of St.Sahas, by his disciple Cyril, in the Vatioan library, and since published by Cott-lerins.