OCR Output 360 [Book IV. THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. placed on an essentially different basis. As the constitutiontad hitherto stood, men entered the senate either through thesummons of the censors, which was the proper and ordinaryway, or through the holding of one of the three curule magis­tracies—the consulship, the praitorship, or the aedileship—towhich since the passing of the Ovinian law a seat and votein the senate had been de jure attached (ii. 317). The holdingof an inferior magistracy, of the tribunate or the quaestor-ship, gave probably a claim de facto to a place in the senate—inasmuch as the censorial selection especially turned towardsthe men who had held such offices—but by no means a re­version de jure. Of these two modes of admission, Sullaabolished the former by setting aside—at least practically—the censorship, and altered the latter to the effect that theright of admission to the senate was attached to the quaestor-ship instead of the aedileship, and at the same time the numberof quaestors to be annually nominated was raised to twenty.*The prerogative hitherto legally pertaining to the censors,although practically no longer exercised in its originalserious import—of deleting any senator from the roll, with astatement of the reasons for doing so, at the revisals whichtook place every five years (ii. 318)—likewise fell into abey­ance for the future; the irremoveable character which hadhitherto practically belonged to the senators was thus finallyfixed by Sulla. The total number of senators, which hithertohad probably not much exceeded the old normal number of300 and often perhaps had not even reached it, was by thesemeans considerably augmented, perhaps on an average Admissionto the senatethroughthe quaes-torship. Abolition ofthe censo­rial super­vision ofthe senate. 267. * How many quaestors had been hitherto chosen annually, is not known.After 487 there were eight of them—two urban, two military, and fournaval, quaestors (i. 429, 439). To these there fell to be added the quaestorsemployed in the provinces (ii. 67). For the naval quaestors at Ostia, Cales,and so forth were by no means discontinued, and the military quaestors couldnot be employed elsewhere, since in that case the consul, when he appearedas commander-in-chief, would have been without a quaestor. . Now, as downto Sulla's time there were nine provinces, and moreover two qnaestors weresent to Sicily, he may possibly have found as many as eighteen quaestors inexistence. But as the number of the supreme magistrates of this periodwas considerably less than that of their functions (P. 366), and the diffi.culty thus arising was constantly remedied by extension of the term ofoffice and other expedients, and as generally the tendency of the Romangovernment was to limit as much as possible the number of magistrates, theremay have been more quaestorial functions than quaestors, and it may bo eventhat at this period no quaestor at all was sent to small provinces such asCilicia. Certainly however there were, already before Sulla's time, more thaneight quaestors.