OCR Output 270 HARCIAKOPOLIS, MARATHUS. seized what they considered a favourable opportunityfor the dost ruction of the people of Marathus, sentprivately to Ammonius, prime minister of AlexanderIS.das, the king of Syria, and bribed him with theoffer of 300 talents to deliver up Marathus to them.The unfortunate inhabitants of the devoted cityattempted in vain to appease their enemies. TheAradians violaled the common laws of suppliants,broke the very ancient images of the local deities,—which the Maratheni had brought to add solemnityto their embassy,—stoned the ambassadors, and casttbcm into prison: according to another account, theymurdered some, and forged letters in their names,which they sealed with their seals, promising suc­cour to Marathus, with a view uf introducing theirtroops into the city under this pretence. But dis­covering that the citizens of Marathus were informedof their dfcign, they desisted from the attempt.The facts of its final subjugation to Aradus are notpreserved. Pliny (v. 20) places Marathus oppositeto the island of Aradus, which he says was 200passus (= 1000 Roman feet) from the coast. Dio-dorus (/. c.) states the distance between Aradus andMarathus to be 8 stadia; which need not be incon­sistent with the statement of Pliny, as the lattermay be supposed to measure to the point on themainland nearest to Aradus, the former the distancebetween that island and the town of Marathus. Thefact, however, is, that even the statement of Diodorusis too short fur the nearest point on the coast; forthis island is, according to Maundrell (March 7, p.19), "about a league distant from the shore." AndPococke, who crossed the strait, says "it isreckoned to be about two miles from the continent.(Okvrrrations on Syrui, p. 201.) The 20 stadia ofStrabo is therefore much more correct than either ofthe other authorities. He says that the island layoff an exposed coast (pax.ivSovs Kai aKtutvov),between it* port (Caranus Ugc Carnos) and Marathus:and what was the respective situation oi these townshe intimates in another passage, where, reckoningfrom the north, he enumerates Balaiiaca, Carnos,Enydra, Marathus. Pococke takes Tortosa to be"without doubt Caranus (Carnos) the port ofAradus on the continent;" and as this is two milesnorth or Aradus, he properly looks for Marathus tothe south, — identifying Enydra with Ein-eUllue(the Serpent's Fountain), "directly opposite toAradus (p. 203), and suggesting that some ruinswhich he observed on a raised ground, at the northernextremity of a plain, about 7 miles south ofTortosa, "might possibly be Marathus" (p. 204).These conjectures may be admitted with someslight modifications. Thus, e. g., instead of iden­tifying Tortosa with Carnos, this naval arsenal of theArvadites must be placed about 2£ miles north ofTortosa, where a la:e traveller has discovered "ex­tensive ruins, called by the Arab peasants Carnoon,— the site, doubtless, of the Carnos or Caranus ofthe ancients. The people from Arvad still quarrystones from these ruins; and below it, on the north,is a small harbour, which appears to have been forti­fied like that of Tortosa." ( luoinpson, in BibliotftecaSacra, vol. v. p. 254.) A fresh-water spring in thesea, is mentioned by Strabo; and a mile to thesouth, between Carnoos and Tortosa, "a fewrods from the shore, an immense fountain, called'Ain Ibrahim (Abraham's fountain); boil* up fromthe bottom." Tortosa, then, will be, as many me­diaeval writers maintained. Antaradus, which 'Aiabicgeographers write An tart Us aud AuUr»u> ; wheutc- the common Arabic name Tartu*, in Italian Torkm"(I.e. p.247, n. 1). 'Ain-el-f/h/th, written by PocockeEin-el-IIye, is certainly the Enydra of Strabo; thegeographer, or his informant, having in this, u in somany other instances, retained the finrt half of tienative name, and translated the latter half. — f'nbeing the usual Greek and Latin equivalent for tbeSemetic 'Ayn ^fountain, and the hydra a sufficientlyclose representative of the Semetic Hiyeh=serprmLSouth of this fountain are very extensive quarries, Meor six miles to the south of Titrtosa. "This n-i,*h ■bourhood is called by the Arabs Amrttd «r ManorHAmreet' the fane of Amreet.' This name tb»* Greeksprobably changed into Marathus, and the old vault*.foundations, sarcophagi, &c, near 'Ain-tl~llfyrk(Serpent's Fountain), may mark the precipe localityof ancient Marathus." (Thompson, L c. p. 250.)Pococke describes here a rock-hewn temj4e, andmonolithic house and chambers; besides a kind ofsemicircle, which he thinks t4might serve for somesports to divert the people of Aradus and Ant and as,or of the ancient Marathus, if that was near. It wasprobably a circus" (p. 203). It wits the more necessary to identify tliese sites,as D'Auville placed the ancient Marathus at themodern Maraliah, which is, doubtless, tlte repre­sentative of " Mutatio Maraccas" of th* JerusataRItinerary, on the confines of Syria and Ph«ntce,13 M. P. south of Balaneas (now Baneasy, and 10M.P. north of Antaradus: and this error is per­petuated in Arrowsmiths map. [G. W.J MARATHUS (VaapaBos). 1. A small town inPhocis, near Antkyra, mentioned only by Strabo(ix. p. 423). Perhaps represented by tbe remainsat SiaViiro-l-afkhio. (Leake, Northern Greet*,vol. ii. p. 549.) 2. A town of Acamania, of unknown site, men­tioned only by Stephanus H. (*. v.) MARATHUSA,an inland city of Cretr, mentioned'by Pliuy (iv. 12; coin p. Tzschucke, ad Pomp. AfeLii. 7. § 13; Hock, Kreta, vol L p. 434.) [E.B.J.] MARATHUSSA (Mopdffowre-a), a wnall islandof the Aegaean sea, off the coast of Ionia, n«rClazomenae, (Time. viii. 31 ; Plin. v. 31. s. 38.) MARCI, a place mentioned in the Not. Imp. astsatbe Saxon shore, and as a station of some Dalmatiancavalry under the command of tbe general «t BetgicaSecunda. D'Anville supposes, with I>e Valub. tliatit may be Mark between Calais and Gruvtlmc*:but the site is uncertain. [G. L.J MARCIAK. [Gallaecia, p. 934. b.] MARCIA'NA SILVA, a mountain forest hi tbesouth-west of Gennany, probably the whole or aportion of what is now called the Black Ftrrewi(Amm. Marc xxi. 8; Tab. Peuting.) Tbe originof the name is not known. Oliver regarding Marxian*as a corruption of sclitcarz, and others con:>ectin£it with marsh and march, which is still tu*d m tut)Black Forest as a name for a moor. [L. &.] MARCIAXO'POLIS (Maawiavova-oAit. Pronop.de Aed. iv. 7), a city of Moesia, 18 M. P. from0dessus( Varna) (Itin. Anton,;Peut.Tab.\ Hfcrorl.),which derived its luune from Marriana, *i-urt ofTrajan. (Amm. Mare, xxvii.6. § 13; Joruand. tUHtb. Get 16.) Claudius IL signally defeated th«Goths in several battles near this town. (TmbrU.Poll. C7at«l9;Zozim. i. 42.) Gibbon (c.xxvi; even p.Le Beau, Bos Empire, vol. iv. p. 106; Green wwj,Uisturu of Oie Gtrmans, London, 1836b p> 38J;Art de ler. Us Dates, vuL L p. 33S) ha* I'M tsmstory uf the accidental quarrel between the Vi^vih