OCR Output 3Q& decline and fall [chap. xlv. own person the name and liberality of a Roman consul.The immediate discharge of his uncle's debts exhibiteda solid pledge of his faith and generosity; a train of por­ters laden with bags of gold advanced into the midst ofthe hippodrome, and the hopeless creditors of Justinianaccepted this equitable payment as a voluntary gift. Be­fore the end of three years his example was imitated andsurpassed by the empress Sophia, who delivered manyindigent citizens from the weight of debt and usury:an act of benevolence the best entitled to gratitude, sinceit relieves the most intolerable distress; but in whichthe bounty of a prince is the most liable to be abused bythe claims of prodigality and fraud.'1Emhassy On the seventh day of his reign, Justin gave audienceAvars, to the ambassadors of the Avars, and the scene was de-a. d. see. corate(j to impress the barbarians with astonishment, ve­neration, and terror. From the palace-gate, the spaciouscourts and long porticos were lined with the lofty crestsand gilt bucklers of the guards, who presented theirspears and axes with more confidence than they wouldhave shewn in a field of battle. The officers, who exer­cised the power, or attended the person, of the prince,were attired in their richest habits, and arranged accord­ing to the military and civil order of the hierarchy.When the veil of the sanctuary was withdrawn, the am­bassadors beheld the emperor of the east on his throne,beneath a canopy or dome, which was supported by fouri' columns, and crowned with a winged figure of victory.In the first emotions of surprise, they submitted to theservile adoration of the Byzantine court; but as soon asthey rose from the ground, Targetius, the chief of theembassy, expressed the freedom and pride of a barbarian.He extolled, by the tongue of his interpreter, the great­ness of the chagan, by whose clemency the kingdoms ofthe south were permitted to exist, whose victorious sub- d Theophan. Chronograph, p. 205. Whenever Cedrenus or Zonaras are meretranscribers, it is supurHuous to allege their ttstimony. :• ■>