OCR Output aN. 2520.] 2S ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. dred and thirty-fourth year, he himself heingbegotten by Sala when he was a hundred andthirty years old: whom Arphaxad had for hisson at the hundred and thirty-fifth year of hieage. Arphaxad was the son of Shem, andborn twelve years after the deluge. NowAbram had two brethren, Nahor and Ha ran;of these, Haran left a son, Lot: as also Saraiand Milcha, his daughters; and died amongthe Chaldeans, in a city of the Chaldeanscalled Ur, and his monument is shewn to thisday. These married their nieces; Nahormarried Milcha, and Abram married Sarai.Now Terah hating Chaldea on occount of hismourning for Haran, they all removed toHaran of Mesopotamia, where Terah* died,and was buried, when he had lived to betwo hundred and five years old; for the lifeof man was already, by degrees, diminished,and became shorter than before, till the birthfof Moses, after whom the term of human lifewas one hundred and twenty years, God de­termining it to the length that Moses hap­pened to live. Now Nahor had eight sonsby Milcha; Uz and Buz, Kemuel, Chesed,Azau, Pheldas, Jadelph, and Bethuel. Thesewere all the genuine sons of Nahor; for Tebaand Gaam, and Tachas and Maaca, wereborn of Reuma his concubine; but Bethuelhad a daughter Rebecca, and a son Laban. CHAP. VII. OF ABRAM'S REMOVAL FROM THE COUNTRY OF THE CHAL­DEANS, TO THE LAND THEN CALLED CANAAN, BUT NOWJUDEA. ABRAM having no sons of his own,adopted Lot, his brother Haran's son,and his wife Sarai's brother: he left the landof Chaldea^ when he was seventy-five yearsold; and at the command of GodJ went intoCanaan, and therein he dwelt himself, andleft it to his posterity. He was a person ofgreat sagacity, both for understanding allthings, and persuading his hearers; and notmistaken in his opinions, for which reason hebegan to have higher notions of virtue thanothers had; and he determined to reformand change the opinion all men happened * An. 1962.} An. 1612. voL. I.—No. 2. then to have concerning God; for he was thefirst who ventured to publish this notion thatthere was but one God, the creator of theuniverse; and that as to other gods, if theycontributed to the happiness of men, thateach of them afforded it according to his ap­pointment, and not by their own power. Thisopinion was derived from the irregular phe­nomena that were visible both at land andsea; as well as those that happen to the sunand moon, and all the heavenly bodies, thus:"If," said he, "these bodies had power oftheir own they would certainly take care oftheir own regular motions; but since they donot preserve such regularity, they make itplain that so far as they operate to our ad­vantage, they do it of their own abilities butas they are subservient to him that commandsthem; to whom alone we ought justly to offerour honour and thanksgiving." For whichdoctrines when the Chaldeans and otherpeople of Mesopotamia raised a tumultagainst him, he thought fit to leave that coun­try; and at the command and by the assist­ance of God, he came and lived in the landof Canaan.|| And when he was there settled,he built an altar, and performed a sacrificeto God. Berosus mentions our father Abram with­out naming him, when he says, " In the tenthgeneration after the flood, there was amongthe Chaldeans a man, righteous and great,and skilful in the celestial science." But He-cateus does more than barely mention him;for he composed and left behind him a bookconcerning him. And Nicolaus of Damascus,in the fourth book of his history, says," Abramreigned at Damascus; being a foreigner, whocame with an army out of the land aboveBabylon, called the land of the Chaldeans.But after a long time he removed from thatcountry also, with his people, and went intothe land then called the land of Canaan, butnow the land 6f Judea: and this when hisposterity were become a multitude; as towhich posterity of his we relate their historyin another work. Now the name of Abram iseven still famous in the country of Damas­cus; and there is shewn a village namedfrom him, The Habitation of Abram." SGen. xii. 1 mm* < Gen. xii. 5.