OCR Output 306 LIVY. meeting success in either engagement. But, besidesthe natural presumptuousness of his temper, he ac­quired confidence from a treaty which he had formedwith Antiochus, king of Syria, in which they had di­vided the wealth of Egypt between them; an objectwhich, on hearing of the death of Ptolemy, they wereboth eager to secure. As to the Athenians, they hadentangled themselves in a war with Philip on too tri­fling an occasion, and at a time when they retainednothing of their ancient dignity but pride. Duringthe celebration of the mysteries, two young men ofAcarnania, who were not initiated, unapprised of itsbeing an offence against religion, entered the templeof Ceres along with the rest of the crowd: their dis­course quickly betrayed them, by their asking ques­tions which discovered their ignorance; whereon, be­ing carried before the presidents of the temple, althoughit was evident that they went in through mistake, yetthey were put to death, as if for a heinous crime. TheAcarnanian nation made complaint to Philip of thisbarbarous and hostile act, and prevailed on him togrant them some aid of Macedonian soldiers, and toallow {hem to make war on the Athenians. At firstthis army, after ravaging the lands of Attica with fireand sword, retired to Acarnania with booty of allkinds. This was the first provocation to hostilities.The Athenians afterwards, on their side, entered intoa regular war, and proclaimed it by order of the state:for king Attalus and the Rhodians, having come toJEgina in pursuit of Philip, who was retiring to Mace­donia, the king crossed over to Piraeus, for the purposeof renewing and strengthening the alliance betweenhim and the Athenians. On entering the city he wasreceived by the whole inhabitants, who poured forthwith their wives and children to meet him; by thepriests, with their emblems of religion; and in a man­ner by the gods themselves, called forth from theirabodes. 15. Immediately the people were summoned to anassembly, that the king might treat with them in per­son on such subjects as he chose; but afterwards it