OCR Output SARDINIA. 911 SARDINIA. raM t dependency of the Byzantine Empire'nt to » late period. Bat in the 8th century,'.cr luring raftered severely from the incursions of» Susomt, it passed for the most part into theall of ttat people, though the popes continued toart > dwudaI sovereignty over the island. III. ToPOORAPHY. Tit pncipil physical features of Sardinia haven dnady described. Of the numerous ranges, oriter (naps, of mountains in the island, the onlyoeit name that has been preserved to us is that of• bruin Moxtbb (Lit. xxx. 39; Claudian, B. G.J; tomiptra Spy, Ptol.), and even of these itut ax] to determine the position with any degree■salty: the name was apparently applied to > jsouitaios in the N. and NE. of the island,ieh Mem to have been regarded (though er- as more elevated than those farther S.,lilt the unhealthiness of the southern part of the*i tu popularly attributed to the shutting outtit bracing north winds by this range of lofty[rtiina. (Claudian, I. c. 513—515.) From itsnt ud configuration, Sardinia could not possess 'kj considerable rivers. The largest were, thentrcs (etyxrof, PtoL: Tirto), which rises in thenuhn m the NE. of the island, and flows into 6*1/of Orittano on the W. coast; the Sackrytvt (Itfbi Tenuis, Ptol.), which falls iuto ux* guff near Neapolis, now called the R. di■lima; the Texus or Term us CTipfiot, Ptol.), cilJed the Ttmo, and falling into the sea neara. to the N. of the Thyrsus; the Caedrius>W>, Ptol.), on the E. coast of the island, nowfnwt di Orotci; and the Saeprns (Samper,.1 now the Fbanendota, in the SE. quarter ofalatd. No ancient name has been preservedta» 8i> Samaui, which flows into the Gulf ofBsri, near the city of that name, though it is a■■ ft*Kiderab!e stream than several of those named,takray has preserved to us (Hi. 3) the names ofa! »f the more important promontories and hend-1 d the coast of Sardinia; and from its nature■tf nration, most of these can be identified with iiSculty. The most northern point of the1 opposite to Corsica, was the promontory ofautism Ctp^eSamoy tutpor, PtoL), now calledV^'a del Falcone, or Lvnao Sardo. The NW.. Arming the western boundary of an extensive•.«v eiDed the Golfo delt Asmara, is the Gor-*a Prom. (Toporrwov expor) of Ptolemy:Cx-tly opposite to it lies the /sola delT Ari-UaMtcrua Ixsula ('HpoxAe'ow rrjaos)Awirv and Pliny, and one of the most con-a* of the smaller islands which surround**■ This headland fonns the N. extremity ofd/a of mountains called Monti della Hurra: - asd of the same range forms a bold headland,ailed Capo della Caccia, immediately adjoin-axa is a deep land-locked bay, the Nymphaeusa of Ptolemy CNvfupaioi Ai^T/y), now called > Coast. The Hermaeum Prom. (Lpualov) of the same author is evidently the Capo di about 12 miles N. of the river Temo:ncolea Port us (Kooax^Sni \ipA\r), which he > between that river and Tharros, is probablytall bay that is found S. of Capo Mannu. The - Crassurn (Tlax*7a ixpa) must be Capo AU4wn whence the coast trends to the SE. as far > Ctpo di Teulada, the extreme S. point of the1 aiaad, which most be the one called Cher- Bonesus by Ptolemy; but his positions for this partof the coast are very inaccurate. Opposite to thisSW. corner of the island lay two small islands, oneof them, called by Ptolemy the Island of Hawks('Upojcwv PTjaos), is the liola di S. Pietro; theother, now known as the Itola di S. Antioco, iscalled by him Plumbaria Insula (MoAiSwotjs rr/iTos),while it is named by Pliny Enosis. It was joinedto the mainland by a narrow strip of sand, and wasthe site of the celebrated town of Sulci, from whencethe adjoining bay (now known as the Golfo diPabnas) derived the name of Sulcitanus Portus.Two other small ports mentioned by Ptolemy be­tween Cape Teulada and the site of Nora (at Capodi l'«In), Bitiae Portus and Herculis Portus, must bethe small coves at Itola Kessa di Teulada and PortoMalfattano. The next headland, named Cunicu-buium Prom. {KovviKov\dpiov aKpov, but the readingis doubtful), is the Punta della Savorra; and thepromontory of Caralis must be the headland im­mediately adjoining the city of that name, nowcalled the Capo di S. Etia. Pliny, however, givesthe name of Caralitanum Prom, to the SE. head­land of Sardinia, for which (singularly enough)Ptolemy furnishes us with no name. The smallisland lying off it, called both by him and PlinyFicaria, is a mere rock, now known as tlio hula driCavoK. Proceeding along tile E. const of theisland, we find the Snlpicius Portus (SovAirluiorArur/r), which cannot be identified with certainty,and the Portus Olbianus ('OAftaror \iu4\v), whichis certainly the Gulf of Terranona; while towardsthe NE. extremity of the island are two headlandscalled Columbarium and Arcti Promontorium. Thelatter is still called Capo dell Orto, from its fanciedresemblance to the figure of a bear; the former can­not be clearly identified, though it is most probablythe Capo di Ferro. Opposite this comer of Sar­dinia lie several small islands, of which the Itoladella Maddalena is the most considerable, and nextto it the Itola di Caprera. These are probably thePhintonis and Ilva of Ptolemy, while Pliny termsthem Phintonis and Fossa. The Coniculariae In-sulae of Pliny are the small islets N. of these, nowcalled the Isolc dei BudellL The towns of Sardinia were not numerous, andbut few of them attained to any importance, at leastdown to a late period. Hence they are very sum­marily dismissed by Strabo, who notices only Caralisand Sulci by name, while Pliny tells us the island con­tained eighteen " oppida," that is. towns of municipalrank, but enumerates only six, besides the colony ofTurris Libysonis (Strab. v. p. 22; Plin. iii. 7. s. 13).The only towns which appear to have ever reallybeen places of importance are: Caralis, the capitalof the whole island, in ancient as in modern times;Sulci, in the extreme SW. of the island, on theItola di S. Antioco; Noka, on the coast betweenCaralis and Sulci at the Capo di Pula; Neapolis,on the W. coast, at the mouth of the Sacer Fluvius;Tharros, on a promontory at the N. extremity ofthe Gulf of Orittano; Corsus, on the W. coast,about 16 miles further N.; Bosa (B£<ro, Ptol. iii. 3.§ 7; Itm. Ant p. 83), also on the W. coast, atthe mouth of the river Temus, still called Bosa;Turris Libyboxis (Porto Torret), on the N. coastof the island; TiBrLA, at Lungo Sardo, near theextreme N. point or Cape Errebantium; and Olbia,on the Gulf of Terranova, in the NE. corner of theisland. In the interior were: Forum Trajan!I (Fordunaiamu), situated on the river Thyrsus