OCR Output 180 [book t. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the women remembered the vow which shehad made concerning her son, and deliveredhim to Eh; dedicating him to God, that hemight become a prophet. Accordingly hishair was suffered to grow long, and his drinkwas water. So Samuel was brought up in the*temple. But Elcanah had other sons of Han­nah, and three daughters. When Samuel was twelve years old,f hebegan to prophesy, and when he was onceasleep, God called to him by name; but hesupposing he had been called by the high-priest, came to him; but when the high-priestsaid he did not call him, God did so thrice.Eli was then so far illuminated, that he saidto him, "Indeed Samuel I was silent now aswell as before. It is God that calls thee.} Dothou therefore signify unto him, and say, I amhere ready." So when he heard God speakagain, he desired him to speak, and to deliverwhat oracles he pleased, for he would not failto perform any ministration he should makeuse of him in. To which God replied, " Sincethou art here ready, learn what miseries arecoming upon the Israelites; such indeed aswords cannot declare, nor faith believe. Forthe sons of Eli shall die in one day; and thepriesthood shall be transferred into the familyof Eleazar; for Eli hath loved his sons morethan my worship, and to such a degree, as isnot for their advantage." This message Eliobliged the prophet by oath to tell him; forotherwise he had no inclination to afflict himby repeating it. And now Eli had a far moresure expectation of the perdition of his sons:but the glory of Samuel increased more and more; it being found by experience thatwhatsoever he]| prophesied came to pass ac .cordingly. CHAP. XI OF THE MISFORTUNES WHICH BEFEL THE SONS OF ELI, THEARK, AND THE PEOPLE; AND OF THE DEATH OF ELI. ABOUT this time§ the Philistines madewar against the Israelites, and pitchedtheir camp at the city Aphec. Now whenthe Israelites had expected them a littlewhile, the very next day they joined battle;but the Philistines were conquerors, and slewabout four thousand of the Hebrews; andpursued the rest of the multitude to theircamp. The Hebrews being now afraid of theworst, sent to the senate, and to the high-priest, and desired that they would bring theark of God; that by putting themselves inarray, when it was present with them, theymight be too hard for their enemies; as notreflecting that he who had condemned themto endure these calamities was greater thanthe ark; and for whose sake it was that theark came to be honoured. So the ark came,and the sons of the high-priest with it, havingreceived an assurance from their father, thatif they pretended to survive the taking of theark, they should come no more into his pre­sence. For Phineas officiated already as high-priest; his father having resigned his office tohim, by reason of his great age.** So theHebrews were full of courage, as supposingthey should be too hard for their enemies; the * Josephus here says, that Samuel was brought up inthe holy place, or the temple; that is in the sacred build­ings about the tabernacle; as is the holy house used byJosephus for the tabernacle itself, VI. 12. and in manyother places. t About an. 1170. j 1 Sam. iii. 21. TJie word of the Lord. Without re­curring to the learned explanations which have beengiven of this expression, it may possibly receive an agree­able illustration from the following extracts. "In Abys­sinia there is an officer named Kal Hatze, who standsalways upon steps at the side of the lattice window, wherethere is a hole covered in the inside with a curtain ofgreen taffeta; behind this curtain the king sits." (Brace'sTrav. vol. iv. p. 76.) The king is described in anotherplace as very much concealed from public view. Heeven "covers his face on audiences, or public occasions,and when in judgment. On cases of treason he sits withinhis balcony, and speaks through a hole in the side of it, toan officer called Kal Hatze, the voice or word of the king,by whom he sends his questions, or any thing else that occurs, to the judges, who are seated at the council table."(Brace's Trav. vol. iii. p. 266.) If such a custom everobtained among the Jews, the propriety of the expression,the word of the Lord, is obvious, as the idea must havebeen very familiar to them. This clearly appears to havebeen the case as to Joseph and his brethren, Gen. xlii. 23.Joseph spake by an interpreter not of languages, but ofdignity and state. Other instances of the same nature mayprobably be traced in 2 Kings v. 10. Job xxxiii. 23. B. II Although there had been a few occasional prophetsbefore, yet was this Samuel the first of a constant succes­sion of prophets in the Jewish nation; as it is implied inSt. Peter's words, Acts iii. 24. "Yea and all the prophetsfrom Samuel, and those that follow after, as many as havespoken, have likewise foretold of these days." See alsoActs xiii. 20. The others were rather sometimes calledrighteous men. See Matt. x. 41. xiii. 17. Constitut.VIII. 12. § An. 1143. ** He was 08 years old. See 1 Sam. iv. 15.