OCR Output DF.CLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. march of Heraclius, till he beheld with a sigh the onceloved mansions of Dastagerd. Both his friends and ene­mies were persuaded, that it was the intention of Chosroestobury himself under the ruins of the city and palace: andas both might have been equally adverse to his night, themonarch of Asia, with Sira, and three concubines, escapedthrough a hole in the wall nine days before the arrivalof the Romans. The slow and stately procession inwhich he shewed himself to the prostrate crowd, waschanged to a rapid and secret journey; and the firstevening he lodged in the cottage of a peasant, whosehumble door would scarcely give admittance to the greatking." His superstition was subdued by fear: on thethird day, he entered with joy the fortifications of Ctesi-phon; yet he still doubted of his safety till he had op­posed the river Tigris to the pursuit of the Romans.The discovery of his flight agitated with terror and tu­mult the palace, the city, and the camp, of Dastagerd:the satraps hesitated whether they had most to fear fromtheir sovereign or the enemy; and the females of theharam were astonished and pleased by the sight of man­kind, till the jealous husband of three thousand wivesagain confined them to a more distant castle. At hiscommand, the'army of Dastagerd retreated to a newcamp: the front was covered by the Arba, and a lineof two hundred elephants; the troops of the more dis­tant provinces successively arrived, and the vilest domes­tics of the king and satraps were enrolled for the last de­fence of the throne. It was still in the power of Chos­roes to obtain a reasonable peace; and he was repeatedlypressed by the messengers of Heraclius, to spare theblood of his subjects, and to relieve a humane conquerorfrom the painful duty of carrying fire and sword throughthe fairest countries of Asia. But the pride of the Per­sian had not yet sunk to the level of his fortune; he de­rived a momentary confidence from the retreat of the n The words of Theophanes are remarkable: Na-nXfli Xoff-po»]; «i; oixov ytaifyev pn&a-fuiw jueu'su, ou x^fi^K ev n rovrcu fluja, h iSxv ta^a-nv 'HfonXiuc iBa^acri, (p. ^69.)Young princes who discover a propensity tb war should repeatedly transcribe andtranslate such salutary tcits.