OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL11. measured, not so much by their real elevation, as by theheight to which they ascend above the level of their ageor country; and the same stature, which in a people ofgiants would pass unnoticed, must appear conspicuousin a race of pigmies. Leonidas, and his three hundredcompanions, devoted their lives at Thermopylae ; but theeducation of the infant, the boy, and the man, had pre­pared, and almost ensured, this memorable sacrifice;and each Spartan would approve, rather than admire, anact of duty, of which himself and eight thousand of hisfellow-citizens were equally capable." The great Pom-pey might inscribe on his trophies, that he had defeatedin battle two millions of enemies, and reduced fifteenhundred cities from the lake Maeotis to the Red Sea;bbut the fortune of Rome flew before his eagles; thenations were oppressed by their own fears, and the in­vincible legions which he commanded, had been formedby the habits of conquest and the discipline of ages. Inthis view, the character of Belisarius may be deservedlyplaced above the heroes of the ancient republics. Hisimperfections flowed from the contagion of the times;his virtues were his own, the free gift of nature or re­flection; he raised himself without a master or a rival;and so inadequate were the arms committed to his hand,that his sole advantage was derived from the pride andpresumption of his adversaries. Under his command,the subjects of Justinian often deserved to be called Ro­mans: but the unwarlike appellation of Greeks was im­posed as a term of reproach by the haughty Goths;who affected to blush, that they might dispute the king­dom of Italy with a nation of tragedians, pantomimes,and pirates." The climate of Asia has indeed been found s It will be a pleasure, not a task, to read Herodotus, (lib. 7. c. 104.134. p.550. 615.) The conversation of Xerxes and Demaratus at Thermopylae, is one ofthe most interesting and moral scenes in history. It was the torture of the royalSpartan to behold, with anguish and remorse, the virtue of his country. b See this proud inscription in Pliny. (Hist. Natur. 7. 27.) Few men have moreexquisitely tasted of glory and disgrace: nor could Juvenal (Satir. 10.) producea more striking example of the vicissitudes of fortune, and the vanity of humanwishes. c r^aiKovs , . . , i£ in ra ia-(5orEpa ouSie* e; iraXiav ijxovra tiSov, ori f*ii rpayuiovs, Mt