OCR Output S5*> THE DECLINE AND FALL and cruelty; and as soon as the head of Nicephorus was shown from the window,the tumult was hushed, and the Armenian was emperor of the east. On the dayof his coronation, he was stopped on the threshold of St. Sophia, by the intrepidpatriarch; who charged his conscience with the deed of treason and blood; and re­quired, as a sign of repentance, that he should separate himself from his morecriminal associate. This sally of apostolic zeal was not offensive to the prince,since he could neither love nor trust a wom^n who had repeatedly violated themost sacred obligations; and Theophano, instead of sharing his imperial fortune,was dismissed with ignominy from his bed and palace. In their last interview, shedisplayed a frantic and impotent rage; accused the ingratitude of her lover; as­saulted with words and blows her son Basil, as he stood silent and submissive inthe presence of a superior colleague; and avowed her own prostitution in proclaim­ing the illegitimacy of his birth. The public indignation was appeased by herexile, and the punishment of the meaner accomplices: the death of an unpopularprince was forgiven; and the guilt of Zimisces was forgotten in the splendour of hisvirtues. Perhaps his profusion was less useful to the state than the avarice ofNicephorus, but his gentle and generous behaviour delighted all who approachedhis person: and it was only in the paths of victory that he trod in the footsteps ofhis predecessor. The greatest part of his reign was employed in the camp and thefield: his personal valour and activity were signalized on the Danube and the Ti­gris, the ancient boundaries of the Roman world; and by his double triumph overthe Russians and the Saracens, he deserved the titles of saviour of the empire, andconqueror of the east. In his last return from Syria, he observed that the mostfruitful lands of his new provinces were possessed by the eunuchs. "And is it forthem," (he exclaimed, with honest indignation,) "that we have fought and con­quered? Is it for them that we shed our blood, and exhaust the treasures of ourpeople?" The complaint was re-echoed to the palace, and the death of Zimiscesis strongly marked with the suspicion of poison-Under this usurpation, or regency, of twelve years, the two lawful emperors,Basil and Constantine, had silently grown to the age of manhood. Their tenderyears had been incapable of dominion: the respectful modesty of their attendancesmd salutation, was due to the age and merit of their guardians: the childless am­bition of those guardians had no temptation to violate their right of succession: theirpatrimony was ably and faithfully administered; and the premature death of Zi­misces was a loss, rather than a benefit, to the sons of Romanus. Their want ofexperience detained them twelve years longer the obscure and voluntary pupils ofa minister, who extended his reign by persuading them to indulge the pleasures ofyouth, and to disdain the labours of government. In this silken web, the weaknessof Constantine was for ever entangled; but his elder brother felt the impulse ofgenius and the desire of action: he frowned, and the minister was no more. Basil•was the acknowledged sovereign of Constantinople and the provinces of Europe;but Asia was oppressed by two veteran generals, Phocas and Sclerus, who, alter­nately friends and enemies, subjects and rebels, maintained their independence,and laboured to emulate the example of successful usurpation. Against thesedomestic enemies the son of Romanus first drew his sword, and they trembled inthe presence of a lawful and high-spirited prince. The first, in the front of battle,■was thrown from his horse, by the stroke of poison, or an arrow; the second, whohad been twice loaded with chains, and twice invested with the purple, was de­sirous of ending in peace the small remainder of his days. As the aged suppliantapproached the throne, with dim eyes and faltering steps, leaning on his two at­tendants, the emperor exclaimed, in the insolence of youth and power,—"And isthis the man who has so long been the object of our terror!" After he had con­firmed his own authority, and the peace of the empire, the trophies of Nicephorusand Zimisces would not suffer their royal pupil to sleep in the palace. His long andfrequent expeditions against the Saracens were rather glorious, than useful to theempire; but the final destruction of the kingdom of Bulgaria appears, since thetime of Belisarius, the most important triumph of the Roman arms. Yet, insteadof applauding their victorious prince, his subjects detested the rapacious and rigidavarice of Basil; and in the imperfect narrative of his exploits, We can only discernthe courage, patience, and ferociousness of a soldier. A vicious education, tvhichcould not subdue his spirit, had clouded his mind; he was ignorant of everyscience; and the remembrance of his learned and feeble grandsire might encouragea real or affected contempt of laws and lawyers, of artists and arts. Of such acharacter, in such an age, superstition took a firm ajid lasting possession; after the