OCR Output aN. M»a] 123 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVT& taking you for brave and: worthy men, weagreed to your request, that we might treatyou with such honours as hospitality required.And now seeing yao say that you nave agreat affection for us, and are troubled whenyou think we are departing, we are not averseto your entreaties, and if we may receive sa­tisfactory assurance of your good will, we willbe glad to lead our lives with you, as yourwives; but we are afraid that you will in timebe weary of our company, and will then abuseus, and send us back to our parents, after anignominious manner. You must, therefore,excuse us in guarding against that danger." The young men professed they would givethem any assistance they should desire; nordid they at all contradict what they requested;so great was the passion they had for them. "If then," rejoined they, "this be yourresolution; since you make use of such cus­toms* and conduct of life as are entirely dif­ferent from all other men; insomuch that yourkinds of food are peculiar to yourselves, andyour kinds of drink not common to others; itwill be absolutely necessary, if you wouldhave us for your wives, that you do withalworship our gods. Nor can there be anyother demonstration of the kindness whichyou say you already have, and promise tohave hereafter to us, than this, that you wor­ship the same gods as we do. For has anyone reason to complain, that now you arecome into this country, you should worshipthe proper gods of the same country? espe­cially while our gods are common to all men,and yours such as belong to nobody but your­selves." So they said they must either comeinto such methods of divine worship as allothers came into, or else they most look outfor another world, wherein they might live bythemselves according to their own laws. Now the young men were induced, by thefondness they had for these women, tb thinkthey spake very welK So they gave them­selves up to what they suggested, and trans­gressed their own laws; and supposing there * What Jbsephus here puts into the mouths of theseMidianite women who came to entice the Israelites tolewdness and idolatry; viz. that their worship of the Godof Israel, m opposition to their idol gods-, implied theirliving according to the holy laws, which the true God hadgiven them by I\fosesr in opposition to those impure laws,which were observed under ifteif false gods', well'deserves VOL. I. NOS. 11 & 12. were many gods, and resolving that theywould sacrifice to them according to the lawof that country which ordained them: theyboth were delighted with their strange food,and went on to do every thing that the womenwould have them do, though in contradictionto their own laws. So far, indeed, that thistransgression was already gone through thewhole army of the young men: and they fellinto a sedition that was much worse than theformer, and into the danger of the entire abo­lition of their own institutions. For whenonce the youth had tasted of these strangecustoms, they went with insatiable inclinationsinto them; and some of the principal men,who were illustrious on account of the virtuesof their fathers, were also corrupted togetherwith the rest. Even Zimri, the head of thetribe of Simeon, accompanied with Cozbi, aMidianitish woman, who was the daughter ofSur, a man of authority in that country: andbeing desired by his wife to disregard theraws of Moses, and to follow those she wasused to, he complied with her: and this bothby sacrificing after a manner different fromhis own, and by taking a stranger to wife. When things were in this state, Moses wasafraid that matters would grow worse, andcalled the people to a congregation: he thenaccused nobody by name; as unwilling todrive those to despair, who, by lying con­cealed, might come to repentance; but hosaid, that they did not do what was eitherworthy of themselves, or of their fathers; bypreferring pleasure to God, and to the livingaccording to his will: that it was fit to changetheir courses, while affairs were in a goodstate; and think that to be true fortitude,which, instead of offering violence to theirlaws, enabled them to resist their lusts. Andbesides that, he said, it was not a reasonablething, when they had lived soberly in thewilderness, to act madly now they were inprosperity: and that they ought not to lose inabandance, what they had gained when theyhad Kttre. And thus did he endeavour to cor- 'our consideration; and gives us a substantial reason forthe great concern that was ever showed under the lawsof Moses, to preserve the Israelites from idolatry, and inthe worship of the true-God'; rt being of no less conse­quence than, whether God's people should be governedby. the holy laws-of the true G»d, or by the impure laws,derived from demons,, under the pagan idolatry. Il