OCR Output 431 NT U s. Mi.rs. continued by Dareitu Hystaspis (b.c.520—527),but nly completed bj Ptolemy Philadelphus (b. c.274). It began in the Pclusiac branch of the Nile,u little above the city of Bubastua (Tt I-Bast a), andpassing by the city of Thoum or Patumus, was car­ried by the Tertians as far as the Hitter Lakes, NE.of the Delta. Here, however, it was suspended bythe troubles of both Aegypt and Persia, under thesuccessors of Dareius, and was, in a great measure,choked up with sand. (Herod, h. 158.) At lengthPhiladelphia, after cleansing and repairing thechannel, carried it onward to Arsinoc, at the head ofthe Sinus Heroopolites. (Piin. vi 29. s. 33.) ThePtolemaic canal, however, suffered the fate of itspredecessor, and even before the reign of CIeo|citrabad become useless for navigation. The connectionby w iter lietwcen Ar.-dnoc and the Xilc was renewedby Trajan, a. d. 10G: hut his engineers altered thedirection of the cutting. They brought the streamfrom a higher part of the river, in order that thecurrent might run into, instead of from, the BedSea, and that the intervening sandy tracts might beirrigated by fresh instead of partially salt water.The canal of Trajan accordingly began at Babylon,on the eastern bank of the Nile, opposite Memphis,and, passing by Heliopolis, Scenae Yetcranorum, He-ronpoHM, and Serapion, entered the lied Sea about20 miles S. of Arsiuoe, at a town called Klysmon,from the locks in its neighbourhood. The work ofTrajan was either more carefully preserved than thatof the Macedonian and Persian kings of Aegypt hadbeen, or, if like them, it fell into decay, it was re­paired and reopened by the Mahommedan conquerorsof the country. For, seven centuries after Trajan'sdecease, we read of Christian pilgrims sailing alonghis canal on their route from England to Palestine.(Dicueil, de Mensur. Orbit, vi. ed Letronne.) 2. The Canopic canal (77 Karu'SiK?; 5iwpi'£, Strab.xvii. p. 800; Sh'ph. B. s. v.) connected the city ofCartoons with Alcxandreiu and the lake Mareotis.Its banks were covered with the country houses andgardens of the wealthy Alexandrians, and formed akind of water suburb to both the Aegyptiati andMacedonian cities. [Caxoits.] Physical Character of the Nile. The civilisation of all countries is directly influ­enced by their rivers, and in none more so than inAesypt, which has been truly called the gift of theNile* (Herod, ii. 5; Strab.'xi. p. 493.) To itsstream the laud owed not only its jieculiar cultiva­tion, but its existence also. Without it. the Libyanwaste would have extended to the shores of theRed Sea. The limestone which lies under thesoil of Aegypt, the sands which bound it to E. andW., were rendered by the deposits of the river iitfor the habitation of man. The Delta, indeed, wasabsolutely created by the Nile. Its periodical floodsat fir.it narrowed a bay of the Mediterranean into anestuary, and next filled up the estuary with a plainof teeming alluvial soil. The religion, and many ofthe peculiar institutions of Aegypt, are derived fromits river; and its physical characteristics have, inall ages, attracted the attention of historians andgeographers. Its characteristics may be considered under theheads of (1) its deposits; (2) the quality of itswaters; and (3) its periodica! inundations. (I.) Its dejMMtfcf.— Borings made in the Delta tothe depth of 45 feet, have shown that the soil con­sists ot vegetable matter and an earthy deposit, such as the Nile now brings down. The inpiAirtAi flthis dejxwit are clay, lime, and siliceous saod; battheir proj>ortion is affected by the soil over which tatriver flows. Calcareous and argillaceous nanaabound in the neighbourhood of Cairo and taaDelta; silex preponderates in the granitic and ana*stone districts of Upper Aegypt. The unoo**1this deposit corresponds generally to the slope of Ibanks and the distance from the river. I"Nubia and Upper Aegypt alluvial cliffs art fortnei1the height of 40 feet; in Middle Aegypt theyaalto 30; at the point of the iX lta to about cijltaaThe earthy matter is deposited in a convex f*athe larger quantity lying close to the stream,!!smaller at the verge of the inundation. Afl aeoaaquence of this fall from the banks towards thednalthe limit to which the inundation reaches is elovr/CIextending itself; but as the Nile raises its own ballwell as its banks,their relative proportion is presentThe deposit of the Nile is found to c«ciai»t of (1clay, constituting 48 in 100 parts; (2) earke^parts; (3) carbonate of lime 18 {•arts, and 4 1carbonate of magnesia, besides portions of -:>-»»oxide of iron. These form a compost so rich, tlland on which they are jerennially deposited fno other manure, and produces without farther Ivat ion successive harvests of corn. (Athan ii. 41,Plin. xviii. 19. a. 81.) (2.) The quality of its tcatcrs.—The wateraHis not less important to Aegypt than the ingredasiwhich it precipitates or holds in solution,some short streams in the Arabian hills, taone season and dry at another, the Nile is Iriver in Aegypt. Natural springs do nut 1the upper country; and the wells of the Ivhaionly a turbid and brackish fluid. The rimicordingly the single resource of the inhabit!the frequent ablutions enjoined by theirrendered a copious supjdy of water morenarily important to them. Between its bqlowest periods, the water of the Nile is clear,lowest, it is feculent (Athen. ii. 42); and Ibeginning of the inundation is covered with a|ish vegetable matter, that is said to castive disease. But even when most turbid, it 1unwholesome, and is always capable of filThe water in its medium state was pan 1ticioaa to the taste. The Persian kings, aJconquest of Aegypt. imported it for their owniug to Susa and Kcbatana (Athen. ii. J»4. 67)^the emperor Pescennius Niger replied to 1demand for wine, "Have you not theNile.'1 (Spartian. ap. August Hist. Sccenn. Niger, c. 7.) These change* in tJquality of the water were ascribed to the <of the Nubian lakes, or to the passage ofover various strata. But until the.White and Blue Rivers have been explored tsources, we must be content to remainthe real causes of these phenomena. (3.) Its periodical inundations. —'of the inundation early attracted theancient observers; and various tbeurMvised to account for them. It wifrom the melting of the snow oq themountains (Schol. in ApolL RKod. it.Helen, init.); and Herodotus rejectaposition, because, as he conceived, altously, that snow was unknown in Aethiopra (It was ascribed to the Etesian winds. wLLch. Ifrom the N. in summer, force back