OCR Output AN. 381 562.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. nied with a few others, over the desert, andcame to Babylon. So he took upon him themanagement of the public affairs and of thekingdom, which had been kept for him byone that was the principal of the Chaldeans;and he received the entire dominions of hisfather; and appointed, that, when the cap­tives came, they should be placed as colo­nies, in the most proper parts of Babylonia.He then adorned the temple of Belus, andthe rest of the temples, in a magnificentmanner, with the spoils he had taken in thewar. He also added another city to thatwhich was there of old, and rebuilt it: thatsuch as would besiege it hereafter mightno more turn the course of the river, andthereby attack the city itself. He thereforebuilt three walls round about the inner city,and three others about that which was theouter; and this he did with burnt brick.And after he had walled the city, andadorned its gates, he built another palacebefore his father's palace; but so that theyjoined to it: to describe whose vast heightand immense riches it would perhaps be toomuch for me to attempt. Yet as large andlofty as they were, they were completed* infifteen days. He also erected elevatedplaces for walking, of stone; and made itresemble mountains: and built it so that itmight be planted with all sorts of trees.He also erected what was called a pensileparadise: because his wife was desirous tohave things like her own country; she hav­ing been bred up in the palaces of Media."Megasthenes also, in his fourth book of his the year 6IS, that Nebuchadnezzar must have been acommon name of other kings of Babylon besides the greatNebuchadnezzar himself, is a groundless mistake of somemodem chronologers only, and destitute of all properoriginal authority. * These fifteen days for finishing such vast buildingsat Babylon, in Josephus's copy of Berosus, would seemtoo absurd to be supposed to be the true number;were it not for the same testimony extant also in thefirst book against Apion, with the same number. Itthence indeed uppears, that Josephus's copy of Berosushad this sm.ill number; but that it is the true number, IStill doubt. Josephus assures us, that the walls of somuch a smaller city as Jerusalem were two years andfour months in building by Nehemiah, who yet hastenedthe work all he could; XI. 5. I should think one hun­dred and fifteen days, or a year and twenty days, muchmore proportionable to so great a work. t Two ye:irs. % Four years. Accounts of India, makes mention of thesethings; and thereby endeavours to shew thatthis king, Nebuchadnezzar, exceeded Her­cules in fortitude, and in the greatness of hisactions. For he saith, that "he conqueredgreat part of Libya and Iberia," Dioclesalso, in the second book of the Accounts ofPersia, mentions this king. As does Philos-tratus, in his accounts both of India andof Phoenicia say, that "this king besiegedTyre thirteen years: while at the same timeEthbaal reigned at Tyre." These are allthe histories that I have met with concerningthis king. After the death of Nebuchadnezzar, Evil-Merodach his son succeeded in the kingdom;who immediately set Jechoniah at liberty,and esteemed him among his most intimatefriends. He also gave him many presents,and made him honourable above the rest ofthe kings that were in Babylon. For hisfather had not kept his faith with Jechoniah,when he voluntarily delivered up himself tohim, with his wives and children, and hiswhole kindred, for the sake of his country:that it might not be taken by siege, and ut­terly destroyed; as we said before. WhenEvil-Merodach was dead, after a reign ofteighteen years, Niglissar his son took thegovernment, and retained it Jforty years:and then ended his life. And after him thesuccession in the kingdom came to his sonLabosordacus, who continued in it, in all,but nine months, and when he was dead, itcame to Baltasar;|| who by the Babylonianswas called Naboandelus. Against him did II It is here remarkable, that Josephus, without theknowledge of Ptolemy's Canon, should call the same king,whom he himself here, Baruch i. 11. and Daniel v. 1,2,9, 12, 22, 29, 30. styles Baltasar, or Belshazzar, from theBabylonian god Bel; Naboandelus also; and in anotherplace from the same citation out of Berosus, Nabonnedon;from the Babylonian god Nabo, or Nebo. This last isnot remote from the original Babylonian pronunciation inPtolemy's Canon, Nabonadius. For both the place ofthis king in that Canon, as the last of the Assyrian orBabylonian kings, and the number of years of his reign,seventeen, the same in both, demonstrate that it is oneand the same king that is meant by them all. It is alsoworth noting, that Josephus knew that Darius, the part­ner of Cyrus, was the son of Astyages, and was calledby another name among the Greeks: though it does notappear he knew what that name was; as having neverseen the best history of this period, which is Xenophon'iKujs .buiSsm. But then, what Josephus's present copiessay presently, that it was only within no long time 3S2