OCR Output CHAP. Xhll.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 221 his restoration. The peop lewas deluded and inflamedhy the fanaticism of Ma2dak,p who asserted the commu­nity of women,q and the equality of mankind, whilst heappropriated the richest lands and most beautiful femalesto the use of his sectaries. The view of these disorders,"which had been fomented by his laws and example/ em­bittered the declining age of the Persian monarch; andhis fears were increased by the consciousness of his de­sign to reverse the natural and customary order of suc­cession, in favour of his third and most favoured son, sofamous under the names of Chosroes and Nushirvan.To render the youth more illustrious in the eyes of thenations, Kobad was desirous that he should be adoptedby the emperor Justin: the hope of peace inclined theByzantine court to accept this singular proposal; andChosroes might have acquired a specious claim to theinheritance of his Roman parent. But the future mis­chief was diverted by the advice of the quaestor Proclus:a difficulty was started, whether the adoption should beperformed as a civil or military ritethe treaty wasabruptly dissolved; and the sense of this indignity sunkdeep into the mind of Chosroes, who had already ad­vanced to the Tigris on his road to Constantinople.His father did not long survive the disappointment ofhis wishes; the testament of their deceased sovereignwas read in the assembly of the nobles; and a powerfulfaction, prepared for the event, and regardless of thepriority of age, exalted Chosroes to the throne of Persia.He filled that throne during a prosperous period of forty- P See d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient, p. 568.929.) Hyde, (de Religione Vet. Pent-rum, c. 21. p. 290, 291.) Pocock, (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. ?0, 71.) Eutychius,(Annul, tom. 2. p. 176.) Texeira. (in Stevens, Hist, of Persia, lib. 1. c.34.) 1 The fame of the new law for the community of women was soon propagat­ed in Syria (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 402.) and Greece. (Procop. Persic,lib. 1. c. 5.) 'He offered his own wife and sister to the prophet; but the prayers of Nushirvansaved his mother, and the indignant monarch never forgave the humiliation to whichhis filial piety had stooped: pedes tuos deosoulatus, (said he to Mazdak) cujus factoradhuc nares occupat. (Pocock, Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 71.) * Procopius, Persic. lib. 1. c. 11. Was not Proclus over-wise? Was not thedanger imaginary ?—The excuse, at least, was injurious to a nation not ignorant ofletters: cv y^appaa-i oi (3«£&xpoi touc waiSa; iroiouv-rai aXX* faXuv cxEui. Whelher anymodi of adoption was practised in Persia 1 much doubt.