OCR Output 148 VESPASIAN, EMPEROR. [B. IV. such as sail within three hundred furlongs of it, that shipsmay cast anchor a great way off in the night-time, by reasonof the difficulty of sailing nearer. About this island arebuilt very great piers, the handy-work of men, against which,when the sea dashes itself, and its waves are broken againstthose boundaries, the navigation becomes very troublesome,and the entrance through so narrow a passage is rendereddangerous ; yet is the haven itself, when you are got into it,a very safe one, and of thirty furlongs in largeness: intowhich is brought what the country wants in order to itshappiness; as also what abundance the country affords, morethan it wants itself, is hence distributed into all the habitableearth. G. Justly, therefore, did Vespasian desire to obtain thatgovernment, in order to corroborate his attempts upon thewhole empire; so he immediately sent to Tiberius Alexander,who was then governor of Egypt and of Alexandria, andinformed him what the army had put him upon, and how he,being forced to accept of the burden of government, was de­sirous to have him for his confederate and supporter. Nowas soon as ever Alexander had read this letter, he readilyobliged the legions and the multitude to take the oath offidelity to Vespasian, both which willingly complied withhim, as already acquainted with the courage of the man fromthat his conduct in their neighborhood. Accordingly, Ves­pasian, looking upon himself as already intrusted with thegovernment, got all things ready for his journey [to Rome.]Now fame carried this news abroad more suddenly than onecould have thought, that he was emperor over the east;upon which every city kept festivals, and celebrated sacrificesand oblations for such good news: the legions also that werein Mysia and Pannonia, who had been in commotion a littlebefore, on account of this insolent attempt of Vitellius, werevery glad to take the oath of fidelity to Vespasian upon hiscoming to the empire. Vespasian then removed from Cajsareato Berytus, where many embassages came to him from Syriaand many from other provinces, bringing with them fromevery city crowns and the congratulations of the people.