OCR Output A. D. 20.] 149 oP TACITUS. •4 and his wife Planeina were known to have assisted44 in superstitious rites and impious sacrifices. And"yet the prisoner did not stop there: he was guilty" of rebellion; he appeared in arms against the state;" and before he could be brought to justice as a citi-" zen, he was conquered as an enemy." XIV. The defence in every article, except thatwhich related to the crime of poison, was weak andineffectual. The charge of debauching the soldiersby bribery, the rapacity of his creatures, and the in-suits offered to Germanicus, were stubborn facts, andcould not be denied. The crime of poisoning seemedto be sufficiently answered. It was left on weakground by the managers of the prosecution. All theyhad to urge in support of that article, was a bare al­legation, that Piso, at an entertainment given by Ger­manicus, being placed on a couch above the prince,had contrived with his own hands to mingle poison*with the victuals. An attempt of the kind, in themidst of servants not his own, under the eye of num­bers, and in the very presence of Germanicus, seemedimprobable, and indeed absurd. To refute it altoge­ther, Piso made a tender of his slaves to be ques­tioned on the rack, demanding, at the same time, thatthe domestics of Germanicus, who waited that day attabic, should undergo the like examination. But no­thing made an impression on the judges. For differ­ent reasons they were all implacable; Tiberius, onaccount of the war levied in Syria: the senators, froma full persuasion that treachery had a hand in thedeath of Germanicus. A motion was made for theproduction of all letters written to the criminal byTiberius and Livia. This was opposed with vehe­mence, not only by Piso, but also by the emperor. Theclamours of the populace, who surrounded the senate-house, were heard within doors. The cry was, if Pisoescaped by the judgment of the fathers, he should dieby the hands of the people. They had already seizedhis statues, and in their fury, dragged them to the placeof execution called the Gemonise, with intent to breakthem into fragments. By order of Tiberius they wererescued out of their hands. Piso was conveyed home N2