OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIIIE. Justin had invested his nephew with the purple, the pa­triarch of Constantinople placed the diadem on theheads of the emperor and empress of the east. But theusual honours which the severity of Roman manners hadallowed to the wives of princes, could not satisfy either theambition of Theodora or the fondness of Justinian. Heseated her on the throne as an equal and independentcolleague in the sovereignty of the empire, and an oathof allegiance was imposed on the governors of the pro­vinces in, the joint names of Justinian and Theodora/The eastern world fell prostrate before the genius andfortune of the daughter of Acacius. The prostitutewho, in ths presence of innumerable spectators had pol­luted the theatre of Constantinople, was adored as aqueen in the same city, by grave magistrates, orthodoxbishops, victorious generals, and captive monarchist Those who believe that the female mind is totally de­praved by the loss of chastity, will eagerly listen to all theinvectives of private envy or popular resentment, whichhave dissembled the virtues of Theodora, exaggeratedher vices, and condemned with rigour the venal or vo­luntary sins of the youthful harlot. From a motive ofshame or contempt, she often declined the servile homageof the multitude, escaped from the odious light of thecapital, and passed the greatest part of the year in thepalaces and gardens which were pleasantly seated on thesea-coast of the Propontis and the Bosphorus. Her pri­vate hours were devoted to the prudent as well as grate­ful care of her beauty, the luxury of the bath and table,and the long slumber of the evening and the morning.Her secret apartments were occupied by the favourite 'I swear by the Father, &c. by Ihe Virgin Mary, by the four Gospels, quae in•usibiM teneo, and by the holy archangels Michael and Gabriel, puram conscieiitiamprnianumque servitium meservaturum, sacratissiniis DDNN. Justinianoet Theodorae•nnjugi ejus, (novel. 8. tit. 3.) Would the oath have been hinding in favour of thewidow J Communes tituli et triumph!, &c. (Alcman. p. 47, 48.) S "Let greatuess own her, and she's mean no more," ficc.Without Warburton's critical telescope, I should never have seen, in the gcuuialpictuie of triumphant vice, any personal allusion to Theodora.