OCR Output TOItNADOTUS. 1217 TRACHIS. ipr»h of the TofxmcriSai u a people in Eoropennamatia, who an perhaps the tame as the Turetac * Tnreatee. loKXADOTTJP, a small river of Assyria, men-►«wl by Pliny (vi. 27. s. 31), and a tributary ofhe Tigris. It is probably the same stream as thatrticrd by Xenophon under the name of the Physcns.Iiuii. ii. 4. § 25.) It may be the modem Tornnr Monaco, Mannert (vi. 2. p. 317) takes it to bebr u/ne as the Adiabas of Ammianns (xxiii. 6); bnt« Adiabas is more likely to bo that elsewhere■lied the Zahatus (dow Zab). TV.]TORXATES, an Aqnitanian people, whose namepremcd in Pliny (iv. 19). There is no indi-ition tf tbeir position, unless it be the name Tour-ni a (mall town on the Arms, a branch of theJour, and in the diocese of Tarbot, which, under« name of Turba, was the chief place of theifniooes. [Bioerriones.] [G. L.] ToRON'AICL'S SINUS. [Torosk.]TORONE (Toparrj: Eth. Tofwvcuoi), a town ofhalciilice in Macedonia, situated upon the SW.»§t of the peninsula of Sithonia. It was said toi'« derived its name from Tnrone, a daughter ofrmeus or Poseidon ami Phoenice. (Steph. B.r Taovvii.) It was a Greek colony, founded bye Chakridians of Eoboea, and appears to hare beenAnally the chief settlement of Ihe Chalcidians inne parts. Hence the gulf lying between the pen-iqIu of Sithonia and Torone was generally called'Toronaean, now the Gulf of Kassandhra.•ymixot xiktot, Steph. B. s. t>. Toaivn; Ptol.13. § 13; Topwutbt koayov, Strab. vii. p. 330;rmn. Cb. 640; Toronaicum mare, Lit. xliv. 11;ntiaeos sinus, Tac Ann. v. 10.) Like the other"It cities in these parts, Torone furnished ships1 men to the army of Xerxes in his invasion ofwe. (Herod, vii. 122.) After the Persian War'« came under the dominion of Athens. In B.C. * • party in the town opened the gates to Brasidas, • it was retaken by Cleon two years afterwards,hue. It. 110, seq., v. 2.) At a later time itma to have been subject to ftljnthrp, niawujl wasnrrrd by the Athenian general Timothens. • •I t. xv. 81.) It was annexed by Philip, alongi the other Chalcidian cities, to the Macedonianpne. (Diodor. xvi. S3.) In the war against mis, at. o. 169, it was attacked by a Roman•, but without success. (Liv. xliv. 12.) Theo-astos related that the Egyptian bean grew in arsn near Torone (on. Alien, iii. p. 72, d.); andbeetratos mentions a particular kind of fish, foreh Torone was celebrated (op. Alien, vii. p. 310,The harbour of Torone was called Gophos*>»»)■ or " deaf," because being aeparateil from *xk by two narrow passages, the noise of the«■.» was never heard there: hence the proverbttraoee tow Toptwaiov AuWvor. (Strab. vii. p.>; Mela, ii. 3; Zenob. Prov. Craec. cent. iv. pr.) This port is apparently the same as the onenl by Tbacydides (v. 2) the harbour of the Co-."iiiana, which he describes as only a little way> U>e city of the Toronaeans. Leake conjectures »e ought perhaps to read Kexpuiv instead of•oQmr'iv*. Jt is still called Kufo, and Torone"ii* retains its ancient name. (Leake, Northernfe. vol. iii. pp. 119, 155, 455.)OltYNE (Topirn, Pint. Ant. C2; Tooirri, Ptol.1 *. § 5), a town of Thesprotia in Epeirus, off h ttie rleet of Augustus was moored a short leftire the battle of Actium, seems from theuu n. order of the names in Ptolemy to have stood in oneof the bays between the month of the river Thy am isand Sybota, probably at Parga. (Leake, NorthernGreece, vol. i. p. 103, vol. iii. p. 8.) TOTTAEUM, a place in Bithynia of uncertainsite (/fc Ant. p. 141; It. Ilierot. p. 573, where it iscalled Tntaium; ConciL Chalced. p. 98); but somelook for its site near Gekth, and others near Kara-kaia. [L. S ] TOXANDRI. These inhabitants of North Galliaare first mentioned by Pliny (iv. 17) in a passagewhich has been interpreted several ways. Pliny'sBelgica is limited on the north by the Scaldis(JScheUe). [Gallia Trams., Vol. I. p. 960.] PlinyBays: u A Scaldi incolunt extent Toxandri pluribnsnominihus. DeindeMenapii,Morini." D'Anvilleandothers explain " extern" to signify beyond the limitsof the Schelde, that is, north and east of thisboundary; and Cluver places the Toxandri in thoislands of Zetland D'Anvillc supposes that they tooka part of their territory from the Menapii, and thatthis newly acquired country was the Campen northof Brabant and the bishopric of Liege. This con­jecture is supposed to be confirmed by the passageof Ammianus Marcellinns (xvii. 8), in which hesays that Julian marched against the Franci namedSalii, who had dared to fix themselves on Romanground "apud Toxiandriam locum." The geogra­phers who are best acquainted with the Netherlandsfix Toxiandri locus at Tessender La, a small placein the Campen to the north of Brabant. Ukert(Gallien, p. 372) gives a different meaning to thoword "extera." He remarks that Pliny, describingthe north coast of Europe (iv. 14), says: "Totoautem hoc niari ad Scaldim usque flnvinm Ger-manicae accolunt pontes," and he then enumeratesthe peoples as far as the Scaldis. Afterwards(c 17) he adds "a Scaldi incolunt," &c.; and afew lines further, a word * introrsus" is opposed tothis " extera"; from which Ukert concludes that"extera" here means the coast country, a meaningwhich it has in two other passages of Pliny (ii. 67,iv. 13). After describing the nations which occupythe "extera," or coast, Pliny mentions the people*in the interior, and in the third place the Germanicpeoples on the Rhine. Accordingly Ukert concludesthat we must look for the Toxandri in the neigh­bourhood of Ghent and Bruges. [G. L.j TRACANA (TjxWo, Ptol. iii. 5. § 27), aninland city of European Sarmatia. [T. H. D.l TRACHIS or TRACHIN (T,>oxl«. Herod., Thuc,et alii; Tpaxl", Strab.: Fih. Tpax^iot). 1. A cityof Malis, in the district called after it Trarhinia.It stood in a plain at the foot of ML Ota, a little totho N. or rather W. of Thermopylae, and derived itsname from the rocks which surrounded the plain.It commanded the approach to Thermopylae fromThessaly, and was, from its position, of great militaryimportance. (Herod, vii. 176; Strab. ix. p. 428;Steph. B. s. r.) The entrance to the Trachinianplain was only half a plethrum in breadth, but thesurface of the plain was 22,000 plethra, accordingto Herodotus. The same writer states that the cityTrachis was 5 stadia from the river Melas, and thatthe river Asopus issued from a gorge in the moun­tains, to the S. of Trachis. (Herod, vii. 198.)According to Thucydides, Trachis was 40 stadiafrom Thermopylae and 20 from the sea (Thuc.iii. 92.) Trachin is mentioned in Homer as one ofthe cities subject to Achilles (IL ii. 682), and iscelebrated in the legends of Hercules as tbe scene of