OCR Output PREFACE. Xlii them insolent and mutinous. It detects and exposeth venalorators and false patriots ; but it exhibits men, who are stu­dious and eloquent in behalf of public welfare, and active insupport of liberty and honest power, in full beauty and pro­portion. And his lessons lie not so apposite and ready forthe application of any State now existing in the world, as forthat of Great Britain. The reader may by this time have caught a glimpse ofseveral reasons, for which the present translation of Thucy-dides was finished and is now made public. No care hathbeen omitted to make it as correct as possible. It hath beenattentively reviewed ; the narrative part, more than once ;the oratorial part, with repeated endeavours to reach thespirit and energy of the original. In the former, the Authorhath been followed step by step : Bold deviations here mightimperceptibly have misrepresented or distorted the facts, andquite banished the peculiar stile and manner of the author.In the latter, it hath been often judged necessary to dilatethe expression in order fully to include the primary idea;though, where it seemed possible, the studied conciseness ofthe author hath been imitated, provided the thought could beclearly expressed, and the sententious maxim adequatelyconveyed. The turns and figures of expression have beenevery where diligently noted, and an endeavour constantlymade at imitation. This was judged a point of duty ; or apoint at least, where though something may be permitted toa translator's discretion or to the genius of a modern language,yet he must not indulge himself in too wide a scope, lest,when what ought to be a copy is exhibited, the prime dis­tinctions of the original be lost, and little or no resemblancebe left behind. It is very just and true what Mr. Hobbes hath observed,that " this author so carrieth with him his own light through-" out, that the reader may continually see his way before htm," and by that which goeth before expect what is to followAnd he, who applies to any commentator but Thucydidt s