OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 85 these words. From the end of the Hannibalic war down to 595 the numbers of the burgesses were steadily on the 159. increase, the cause of which is mainly to be sought in the continuous and considerable distributions of domainland (ii. 392): after 595 again when the census yielded 328,000 159. citizens capable of bearing arms, there appears a regular falling off, for the list in 600 stood at 324,000, that in 607 154. 147. at 322,000, that in 623 at 319,000 burgesses fit for service 131. —an alarming result for a period of profound peace at home and abroad. If matters were to go on at this rate, the burgess-body would resolve itself into planters and slaves; and the Roman state might at length, as was the case with the Parthians, purchase its soldiers in the slave-market. Such was the external and internal condition, of Rome, ideas of ie-when the state entered on the seventh century oF its exist- form,ence. Wherever the eye turned, it encountered abuses anddecay; the question could not but force itself on everysagacious and well-disposed man, whether this state ofthings were not capable of remedy or amendment. Therewas no want of such men in Rome; but no one seemedmore called to the great work of political and social re- Scipioform than Publius Cornelius Scipio ^Eniilianus Africanus JEmilianut.(570-625), the favourite son of JEmilius Paullus and the 184-129.adopted grandson of the great Scipio, whose glorious sur­name of Africanus he bore by virtue not merely of here­ditary but of personal right. Like his father, he was aman temperate and thoroughly healthy, never ailing in body,and never at a loss to decide on the immediate and necessarycourse ^>f action. Even in his youth he had kept aloof fromthe usual pursuits of political novices,—the attending in theantechambers of noble senators and the delivery of forensicdeclamations. But on the other hand he loved hunting—whena youth of seventeen, after having served with distinctionunder his father in the campaign against Perseus, he hadasked as his reward the free range of the deer forest of thekings of Macedonia which had been untouched for fouryears—and he was especially fond of devoting his leisure toscientific and literary enjoyment. By the care of his fatherhe had been early initiated into that genuine Greek culture,which elevated him above the insipid Hellenizing of thesemi-culture commonly in vogue; by his earnest and aptappreciation of the good and bad qualities in the Greekcharacter, and by his aristocratic carriage, this Roman made