OCR Output an. 587.] 377 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the Hebrews, and among the Chaldeans. Asespecially did Daniel, who, being alreadysufficiently skilful in wisdom, was very busyabout the interpretation of dreams. AndGod manifested himself to him. Two years after the destruction of Egypt,king Nebuchadnezzar saw a wonderful dream;the accomplishment of which God shewedhim in his sleep.* But when he arose out ofhis bed he forgot the accomplishment. Sohe sent for the Chaldeans, magicians, andprophets, and told them he had seen a dream;and informed them that he had forgotten theaccomplishment of what he had seen; and heenjoined them to tell him, both what thedream was, and what was its signification.They replied, that this was a thing impos­sible to be discovered by men; but they pro­mised that if he would explain to them whatdream he had seen, they would tell him itssignification. Hereupon he threatened toput them to death unless they told him hisdream, and he gave command accordingly,since they confessed they could not do whatthey were commanded. Now when Danielheard that the king had given a command,that all the wise men should be put to death;and that among them himself and his threekinsmen were in danger; he went to Arioch,who was captain of the king's guards, anddesired to know the reason why the king hadgiven command that all the wise men, Chal­deans, and magicians, should be slain? Sowhen he had, learned that the king had had adream, and had forgotten it; and that whenthey were enjoined to inform the king of it,they had said they could not do it, and hadthereby provoked him to anger; he desired * Some are of opinion, that Nebuchadnezzar's dreamand the interpretation thereof, were both revealed toDaniel, while he was asleep; but others rather think,that it was in a vision, while he was awake, because theprayer and thanksgiving which he made to God seem toinsinuate, that he was awake; though we cannot see,why he might not receive the revelation in his sleep, andreturn God thanks for it as soon as he awoke. CalmefsCommentary. B. t The prophet Daniel makes mention of these sort ofpeople, and ranks them under the«e four different kinds.The Chartumim, the Asaphim, the Mecasphim, and theChasdim, chap. ii. 2. Chartumim, according to the Septu-agint, signifies sophists; but according to St. Jerom, divi­ners, fortune-tellers, casters of nativity, &c. Asaphimhas no derivation from the Chaldee tongue, but no smallresemblance to the Greek word sophos, (whether theGreeks took this word from the Babylonians, or the of Arioch, that he would go in to the king,and desire respite for the magicians for onenight; and to put off their slaughter so long;for that he hoped in that time, to obtain byprayer to God the knowledge of the dream.Accordingly Arioch informed the king ofwhat Daniel desired. So the king bade themdelay the slaughter of the magicians, till heknew what Daniel's promise would come to.The young man then retired to his ownhouse, with his kinsmen, and besought Godthat whole night to discover the dream, andthereby deliver the magicians and Chaldeans,with whom they were themselves to perish,from the king's anger, by enabling him todeclare his vision, and to make manifest whatthe king had seen the night before in hissleep, but had forgotten it. Accordingly God,out of pity to those that were in danger, andout of regard to the wisdom of Daniel, madeknown to him the dream and its interpreta­tion, so that the king might understand byhim its signification also. When Daniel hadobtained this knowledge from God, he arosejoyfully, and told it his brethren; and madethem to hope that they should now preservetheir lives, of which they despaired before,and had their minds full of nothing but thethoughts of dying. So when he had with themreturned thanks to God, who had commise­rated their youth; he came to Arioch, anddesired him to bring him to the king, becausehe would discover to him that dream whichhe had seen the night before". When Daniel was come in to the king, heexcused himself first, that he did not pretendto be wiser than the other Chaldeans andmagicians,t when, upon their entire inability Babylonians from them;) and therefore the Septuaginthas rendered it by philosophers. Mecasphim is thoughtby some to be necromancers, such as pretend to raise thedead, to gain intelligence of things future; but the Sep­tuagint has rendered it by a word that denotes such en­chanters as made use of noxious herbs and drugs, theblood of victims, and the bones of the dead, for their su­perstitious operations. The other word Chasdim is thesame with Chaldeans, and here signifies a sort of philoso­phers among the Babylonians, who dwelt in a separatepart of the city, and were exempt from all employments.Their study was natural philosophy, astrology, divination,or the foretelling of future events by the observation ofthe stars, the interpretation of dreams, the science ofauguries, the worship of their gods, &c. as Diodorus Si-culus, lib. 1. gives us an account of them. CalmestDictionary, under the word Magicians. B.