OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK IX. 97 cated by prosperity, the seductions of which no manwas less capable of withstanding. But, if a judgmentis to be formed of him from the tenor of his conduct,in the new state of his fortune, and from the new dis­position, as I may say, which he put on after his suc­cesses, he would have entered Italy more like Dariusthan Alexander; and would have brought thither anarmy who had forgotten Macedonia, and were degene­rating into the manners of the Persians. It is painfulin speaking of so great a king to recite his ostentatiouspride in the frequent changes of his dress; his re­quiring that people should address him with adulation,prostrating themselves on the ground; a practice in­supportable to the Macedonians had they even beenconquered, much more so when they were victorious ;the shocking cruelty of his punishments ; his murder­ing his friends in the midst of feasting and wine ; withthe folly' of his fiction respecting his birth. Whatmust have been the consequence, if his love of winehad daily increased ? If his fierce and uncontrollableanger ? and as I mention not any one circumstance ofwhich there is a doubt among writers, do we considerthese as no disparagements to the qualifications of acommander? But then, as is frequently repeated bythe silliest of the Greeks, who are fond of exalting thereputation, even of the Parthians, at the expense ofthe Roman name, it was to be apprehended that theRoman people would not have had resolution to facethe splendor of Alexander's name, who, however, inmy opinion, was not known to them even by commonfame; and while in Athens, a state reduced to weak­ness by the Macedonian arms, which at the very timesaw the ruins of Thebes smoking in its neighborhood,men had spirit enough to declaim with freedom againsthim, as is manifest from the copies of their speeches,which have been preserved ; is it to be supposed thatout of such a number of Roman chiefs no one wouldhave freely uttered bis sentiments? How large soeverthe scale may be on which our idea of this man's great­ness is formed, still it is the greatness of an individual, LIV. VOL. III. G