OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 115 senatorial privileges (ii. 317, 326) to the equestrian orderwhich he brought into prominence was quite in the style ofGracchus, so it was in very truth his aim to impress on theequites the stamp of an order, similarly close and privileged,intermediate between the senatorial aristocracy and thecommon multitude; and this same aim was more promotedby those class-insignia, trifling though they were in them­selves and though many of equestrian rank might notavail themselves of them, than by many an ordinance farmore intrinsically important. But the party of materialinterests, though it by no means despised such honours, wasyet not to be gained through these alone. Gracchus perceivedwell, that it would no doubt fall duly to the highest bidder,but that it needed a great and substantial bidding; and sohe offered it the revenues of Asia and the jury courts. The system of Roman financial administration, under Taxation ofwhich the indirect taxes as well as the domain-revenues were Asia,levied by means of middlemen, already granted to theRoman capitalist-class the most extensive advantages at theexpense of those liable to taxation. But the direct taxesconsisted either, as in most provinces, of fixed sums ofmoney payable by the communities—which of itself excludedthe intervention of Roman capitalists—or, as in Sicily andSardinia, of a ground-tenth, the levying of which for eachparticular community was leased in the provinces themselves,so that wealthy provincials regularly, and the tributarycommunities themselves very frequently, farmed the tenth oftheir districts and thereby kept at a distance the dangerousRoman middlemen. Six years ago, when the province ofAsia had fallen to the Romans, the senate had organizedit substantially according to the first system (P. 56).Gaius Gracchus* overturned this arrangement by a decreeof the people, and not only burdened the province, which hadhitherto been almost free from taxation, with the mostextensive indirect and direct taxes, particularly the ground-tenth, but also enacted that these taxes should be exposedto auction for the province as a whole and in Rome—a rulewhich practically excluded the provincials from participa­tion, and called into existence in the body of middlemen forthe decumcB, scriptura, and vectigalia of the province of Asia au * That he, and not Tiberius, was the author of this law, now appears fromFronto in the letters to Verus, init. Comp. Gracchus ap. Gell. xi. 10;Cic- de Rep. iii. 29, and Yerr. 111. 6, 12; Vellei. ii. 6.