OCR Output CHRYSOCOLLA. nium.3 These substances combine readily with the Chrysocolla,and, at the same time, give a smoothness to its colour. The Pa-rastonium, which is of a fatty and very smooth consistence, issprinkled over the Atramentum, lest the whiteness of the Parae-tonium should injure the lustre of the chrysocolla. The speciescalled Lutea, is supposed to be named from the plant, which isitself sometimes rubbed with Cceruleum,4 and used instead of thechrysocolla, but the green thus produced is a very bad and a mostdeceitful colour. 28. THE SIX MEDICINES MADE FROM CHRYSOCOLLA. Chrysocolla is used in medicine to cleanse wounds, mixed upwith oil and wax; being itself a dry substance, it causes them todry and contract. It is also given in sore throats, and in asthma,combined with honey. It acts as an emetic; it is used in eye-salves, to remove scars or specks from the cornea; also in greenplaisters, for the purpose of relieving pains or healing scars. Thekind of Chrysocolla which is not called Orobitis, the physiciansname Acesis.5 29. OF THE CHRYSOCOLLA OF THE GOLDSMITHS, OR SANTERNA. Chrysocolla is also used by the goldsmiths for soldering theirgold; it is from this property that the name Chrysocolla6 isapplied to all the species. For this purpose it is digested withverdigris, and the urine of children, together with natron.? It is for the purpose of a varnish; see lib. xxxv. sec. 12 & 36. Vitruvius givesan account of the mode of making writing ink, " atramentum librarium,"by mixing the soet of resin with gum; he informs us that atramentum wasalso used as a pigment for walls; vii. 10. s "Parsetonium" is enumerated among the pigments, as one of the "colores"austeri," in lib. xxxv. sec. 12, and in sec. 18, is described as "spumam"... maris solidatam cum limo." We may suppose it to have been a mecha­nical mixture of various earthy and saline bodies, which possessed anabsorbent quality. It is mentioned by Vitruvius, vii. 7, among the earthypigments. It was probably procured from Paretonium in Marmorica. 4 Coeruleum is described in sec. 57. 5 Ab aKtofiai; equivalent to Cure-all. 6 XpvooKoWa, Auri glutinum. 7 "Nitrum," the word used in the text signified among the ancients thenative subcarbonate of soda, not the nitrate of potash, as among modernchemists; Pliny describes it in lib. xxxi. sec. 46.