OCR Output 176 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. and his military conduct defended Cumae* above a _ year against the forces of the Romans. Their in­dustry had scooped the Sibyl's cavet into a pro­digious mine ; combustible materials were introducedto consume the temporary props: the wall and thegate of Cumae sunk into the cavern, but the ruinsformed a deep and inaccessible precipice. On thefragment of a rock, Aligern stood alone and un­shaken, till he calmly surveyed the hopeless condition .of his country, and judged it more honourable to bethe friend of Narses than the slave of the Franks.After the death of Teias, the Roman general se­parated his troops to reduce the cities of Italy; Luccasustained a long and vigorous siege: and such wasthe humanity or the prudence of Narses, that the re­peated perfidy of the inhabitants could not provokehim to exact the forfeit lives of their hostages. Thesehostages were dismissed in safety; and their grate­ful zeal at length subdued the obstinacy of theircountrymen t.invasion of Before Lucca had surrendered, Italy was over-Franks and whelmed by a new deluge of Barbarians. A feebleaId"."553 youth, the grandson of Clovis, reigned over the Aus-August. trasians or oriental Franks. The guardians of Theo-debald entertained with coldness and reluctance themagnificent promises of the Gothic ambassadors. Butthe spirit of a martial people outstripped the timid * I leave Scaliger (Animadvers. in Euseb. p. 59), and Salmasius, Excrcitat.Plinian. p. 51, 52, to quarrel about the origin of Cumae, the oldest of the Greekcolonies in Italy (Strab. 1. v. p. 372; Velleius Paterculus, 1. i. c. 4), alreadyvacant in Juvenal's time (Satir. iii.), and now in ruins. ■f Agathias (1. i. c. 21) settles the Sibyl's cave under the walls of Cumae; heagrees with Servius (ad. 1. vi.-jEneid.); nor can I perceive why their opinionshould be rejected by Heyne, the excellent editor of Virgil (tom. ii. p. 650, 651).In urbe media secreta religio! But Cumae was not yet built; and the lines(1. vi. 96, 97) would become ridiculous, if JEneas were actually in a Greek city. $ There is some difficulty in connecting the 35th chapter of the ivth book ofthe Gothic war of Procopius with the first book of the history of Agathias. Wemust now relinquish a statesman and soldier, to attend the footsteps of a poetand rhetorician (1. i. p. 11. 1. ii. p. 51. edit. Louvre).