OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 211 ancient claim, which, in a more prosperous age, theyhave revived and realized. Forgery of Fraud is the resource of weakness and cun-timofCon- nnig; aQd the strong, though ignorant barba-•tantine. riail} was Often entangled in the net of sacerdotalpolicy. The Vatican and Lateran were an arsenal andmanufacture, which, according to the occasion, haveproduced or concealed a various collection of false orgenuine, of corrupt or suspicious acts, as they tendedto promote the interest of the Roman church. Beforethe end of the eighth century, some apostolical scribe,perhaps the notorious Isidore, composed the decretals,and the donation of Constantine, the two magic pillarsof the spiritual and temporal monarchy of the popes.This memorable donation was introduced to the worldby an epistle of Hadrian I., who exhorts Charlemagneto imitate the liberality, and revive the name, of thegreat Constantine/ According to the legend, the firstof the Christian emperors was healed of the leprosy,and purified in the waters of baptism, by St. Silvester,the Roman bishop; and never was physician moregloriously recompensed. His royal proselyte withdrewfrom his seat and patrimony of St. Peter; declared hisresolution of founding a new capital in the east; andresigned to the popes the free and perpetual sovereigntyof Rome, Italy, and the provinces of the west.' Thisfiction Was productive of the most beneficial effects.The Greek princes were convicted of the guilt of usur­pation; and the revolt of Gregory was the claim of hislawful inheritance. The popes were delivered from i Piissimo Constantino magno, per cjus largitatem S. R. Ecclesia elevata et ex-oltata est, et potestatem in his Hesperiae partibus largiri dignatus est .... Qiiiaecce novus Constantinus his temporibus, &c. (Codex. Carolin. epist. 49. in torn. 3.pan 2. p. 195.) Pagi (Critica, A. D. 324, no. 16.) ascribes them to an impostor ofthe eighth centuiy, who borrowed the name of St. Isidore: his humble title of Pec-eator was ignorantly, but aptly, tamed into liercator: his merchandise was indeedprofitable, and a few sheets of paper were sold for much wealth and power. * Fabricius (Bibliot. GTOC. torn. 6. p. 4—7.) has enumerated the several editionsof this Act, in Greek and Latin. The copy which Lanrcntius Valla recites and re­futes, appears to be taken either from the spurious Acts of St. Silvester or from Gra-ti an's Decree, to which, according to him and others, it has been surreptitiouslytacked. p 2