OCR Output 88 ITALIA. ITALIA. their relations with the surrounding tribes, are givenunder the head of Magna Gkakcia. 1. Conquest of Italy by the Romans, ii. c. 509—264.—The earliest wars of the Romans with theirimmediate neighbours scarcely come here under ourconsideration. Fiaeed on the very frontier of threepowerful nations, the infant city was frum the veryfir>t engaged in ]<crj>etual hostilities with the Latins,the Sabmes, and the Etruscans. And, however 1 it tiedej-endence can be placed upon the details of thesewars, as related to us, there .seems no doubt that, jeven under the kin^s. Home had risen to a superiorityover must of her neighbours, and had extended heractual dominion over a considerable part of Lutinm.The earliest period of the Republic, on the otherhand (from the expulsion of the Tarquins to theGaulish invasion, B. 509—390), when strippedof the romantic garb in which it has been clothed byRoman writers, presents the spectacle of a difficultand often dubious struggle, with the Etruscans onthe one hand, and the Volscians on the other. Thecapture of Veii, in B.C. 396, and the permanent an­nexation of its territory to that of Home, was thefirst decisive advantage acquired by the rising re-public, and may be looked upon as the first step tothe domination of Italy. Even the great calamitysustained by the Romans, when their city was takenand in part destroyed by the Gauls, B.C. 390, wasso far irom permanently checking their progress,that it would rather seem to have been the meansof opening out to them a career of conquest. It isprobable that that event, or rather the scries of pre­datory invasions by the Gauls of which it formed apart, gave a serious shock to the nations of CentralItaly, and produced among them much disorganisa­tion and consequent weakness. The attention of theEtruscans was naturally drawn oft' towards the N.,and the Romans were able to establish colonies atSutrium and Ncpetc; while the power of the Vol­scians appears to have been greatly enfeebled, andthe series of triumphs over them recorded in theFasti now marks real progress. That of M. ValeriusCorvus, after the destruction of Satricum in n. c. 346(Liv. vii. 27; Fast. Capit.), seems to indicate thetotal subjugation of the Volscian people, who neveragain apjiear in history as an independent power.Shortly alter this, in B.C. 343, the Romans for thefirst time came into collision with the Samnites.That people were then undoubtedly at the heightof their power: they and their kindred Sabelliantribes had recently extended their conquests overalmost the whole southern portion of the peninsula(see above, p. 86); and it cannot l>e doubted, thatwhen the Romans and Samnites first found them­selves opposed in arms, the contest between themwas one for the supremacy of Italy. Meanwhile, astill more formidable danger, though of much brieferduration, threatened the rising power of Rome. Therevolt, of the Latins, who had hitherto been amongthe main instruments and supports of that power,threatened to shake it to its foundation; and thevictory of the Romans at the foot of Mt. Vesuvius,under T. Manlius and P. Decius (n. c. 340), wasperhaps the most important in their whole history.Three campaigns sufficed to terminate this formid­able war (n. c. 340—338). The Latins were nowreduced from the condition of dependent allies tothat of subjects, whether under the name of Romancitizens or on less favourable terms [Latitm]; andthe greater part of Campania was placed in the samecondition. At tliis time, therefore, only seventy years beforethe First Funic War, the [Soman dominion still com.prised only Latium, in the more limited sense of thename (for the Aeqni and Hernici were still inde­pendent), together with the southern part of Etruria,the territory of the Volscians. and a part of Cam­pania. During the next fifty years, which was theperiod of the great extension of the Roman arms andinfluence, the contest between Rome and Samniumwas the main point of interest; but almost all th«surrounding nations of Italy were gradually drawnin to take part in the struggle. Thus, in the ^ raidSamnite War (b. c. 326—304), the names of tinLucanians and Apulians — nations with which (aiLivy observes, viii. 25) the Roman people had. up tothat period, had nothing to do—appear as taking anactive part in the contest. In another part of Italy,the Marsi, Vestini, and Feligni, all of them, as whave seen, probably kindred races with the Samnites,ti-ok up arms at one time or another in support ofthat people, and were thus for the first time broughtinto collision with Home. It was not till B.C. 311that the Etruscans on their side joined in the con­test: but the Etruscan War at once assumed acharacter and dimensions scarcely less formidablethan that with the Samnites. It was now that theRomans for the first time carried their arms beyondthe Ciminian Hills; and the northern cities ofEtruria, Ferusia, Cortona, and Arretiuin, now firstappear as taking part in the war. [EtrcbU-]Before the close of the contest, the Umbrians alsotook up arms for the first time against the Romans.The peace which put an end to the Second .Sam­nite War (it. c. 304) added nothing to the territorialextent of the Roman power; but nearly contemporarywith it, was the revolt of the Hcmicans, which endedin the complete subjugation of that people (b.c.306);and a few years later the Aequiaus, who followedtheir example, shared the same fate, u. c. 302.About the same time (b. c. 304) a treaty was con­cluded with the Marsi, Marrucini, IVdigni, andFrentani, by which those nations appear to havepassed into the condition of dependent aliies ofRome, in which we always subsequently rind them.A similar treaty was granted to the Vestini inn. c 301. In B. c. 208, the contest between Rome andSamnium was renewed, but in this Third SamniteWar the people of that name was only nne memberof a powerful confederacy, consisting of the Samnites,Etruscans, Umbrians, and Gauls; nevertheless, theirunited forces were defeated by the Romans, who, afterseveral successful campaigns, compelled both Etrus­cans and Samnites to sue for peace (it. c. 290).The same year in which this was concluded wit­nessed also the subjugation of the Sabmes, who hadbeen so long the faithful allies of Rune, and nowappear, for the first time after a long interval, inarms: they were admitted to the Roman franc-Lb*.(Liv. Epit. xi.; Veil. Fat. i. 14.) The fchurt in­terval which elapsed liefore hostilities were generallyrenewed, afforded an opportunity for the subjugationof the Galli Senones, whose territory was wastedwith tire and sword by the consul Dolabella, in 283;and the Roman colony of Sena (Sena Gallica) tsts-blished there, to secure their permanent submission.Already in b. C- 282, the war was renewed bothwith the Etruscans and the Samnites; but thisFourth Samnite War, as it is often called, was w.«>nmerged in one of a more extensive character. TheI Samnites were at first assisted by the Lucanians