OCR Output 62 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. soon changed their minds, they "being natural! j of a mutableuisposition, upon the supposal, that this man was not worthyto be their governor ; for they could not think of obeying thecommands of one that had b?en a slave, (for so they called thosethat had been hostages), nor could they bear the ignominy of thatname; and this was the more intolerable, because then the Par-1 iii'i''.s must have such a king set over them, not by right of war,but in time of peace. So they presently invited Artabanus, kingof Media, to be their king, he being also of the race of Arsaces.Artabanus complied with the offer that was made him, and cameto them with an army. So Vonones met him ; and at first themultitude of the Parthians stood on his side, and he put his armyin array; but Artabanus was beaten, and fled to the moun­tains of Media. Yet did he a little after gather a great armytogether, and fought with Vonones, and beat him ; whereupon.Vonones fled away on horseback, with a few of his attendantsnbout him, to Seleucia [upon Tigris]. So when Artabanus hadslain a great number, and this after he had gotten the victory byreason of the very great dismay the barbarians were in, he re-fired to Ctesiphonwith a great number of his people ; and so henow reigned over the Parthians. But Vonones fled away to Ar­menia ; and as soon as he came thither, he had an inclination tohave the government of the country given him, and sent ambas­sadors to Rome [for that purpose]. But because Tiberius refu­sed it him, and because he wanted courage, and because the Par­thian king threatened him, and sent ambassadors to him to de­nounce war against him if he proceeded, and because he had noivay to take to regain any other kingdom, (for the people of au­thority among the Armenians about Niphates joined themselvesto Artabanus), he delivered up himself to Silanus, the presidentof Syria, who, out of regard to his education at Rome, kept himin Syria, while Artabanus gave Armenia to Orodes, one of hisown sons. 5. At this time died Antiochus, the king of Commagene ;whereupon the multitude contended with the nobility, and bothsent ambassadors to [Rome] ; for the men of power were desi­rous that their form of government might be changed into thatof a [Roman] province ; as were the multitude desirous to beunder kings, as their fathers had been. So the senate made adecree, that Germanicus should be sent to settle the affairs of theeast, fortune hereby taking a proper opportunity for depriving^him of his life ; for when he had been in the east, and settledall affairs there, his life was taken away by the poison whichPiso gave him, as hath been related elsewhere *. CHAP. * This citation is now wanting.