OCR Output KO.MA. 821 AHCH OF DRUSUS. inKtimia; a few which were contained within■Snl buondarie* of the city. They appear toI mmmi immediately outside the PortaAn to egressu*« porta Capena, cum Ca-u ^rifMoum. Serviliorum, Metellorum sepulcrak cm putaa illoa?" Cic. Tuic. i. 7); andt nan of them were included in the largerof the walls of Aurelian. The tomb of*», slain by the hand of her victorious brother, ■ t* bare been situated just outside the gate.-1-31) Fortunately themoht interesting of thosetally Cicero—the Tomb or thr Scipios«di in existence. It was discovered in 1780 inftp* Saui, on the left-hand side of the Via1 i tfttle beyond the spot where the Via ■ tranches off from it, arid about 400 pacesI U« Porta S. Sebastiano. Ita entrance isM by a single tall cypress tree. In Livy'slit tab was still adorned with three statues,to W those of Publius and Lucius Scipio, and'pan tanias, who waa interred in the sepulchreI Jaauna. (Hieron. Chron. p. 379, Rone.) It■rt last the sarcophagus of L. Scipio Barbatus,I ■ %. C 198, now preserved in the Vatican,t«T-wrfd, together with several monumental> *tfb inscriptions relating to other members'family, or to their connections and freedinen.■Viuls were carried off to the Vatican andswrTea in their stead. The most remarkable ■ aurnationi are that of Scipio Barbatus; of ■ Larius Cornelius Scipio, the conqueror ofa\ rami in b. c. 259; of Publius Scipio, sonnruu Majnr, whom feeble state of health isi »• by Cicero (Cato Maj. 11), and whose■I fOpk shows that he died young; of L.hi Sofia, grandson of the conqueror of Spain,M to a« fathers at the early age of 20; and of the same name, the son of Asiaticus,ba* fti S3, wboae title to honour is summed1 Ibt tannic words, " Pater regem AntiochumV A eanplete account of this tomb will be■> Vammi (Von. degli Seipkmi, Rom. 1785) and in the Beschrtibung Romt (vol. iii. p. 612,seq.), where the various epitaphs are given. Also on the left-hand side of the Via Appia ingoing from the Porta Capena was the Mausoleum ofSeftimius Severus, which he caused to be erectedfor himself in his lifetime, in imitation of his Septi-zonium, but probably on a reduced scale. (SpartGeta, 7.) In the same neighbourhood are some ofthose Columbaria.or subterranean chambers, whichformed the common resting-places for the ashes ofpersons of a lower condition. One of these, not farfrom the tomb of the Scipios, is said to contain theremains of the courtiers and domestics of theCaesars, from Julius to Nero. Among others thereis an inscription to M. Valerius Creticus, with abust The walls, as well as a large pier in the middle,arc hollowed throughout with vaulted recesses likelarge pigeon-holes, — whence the name.— in whichare contained the ashes of the dead. The Mauso­leum of Caecilia Metella, which stands onthe Via Appia, about 2 miles outside the Porta S.Sebastiano, though it does not properly belong toour Bubiect, demands, from the magnificence of itsconstruction, as well as from Byron's well-knownlines {Childe Harold, canto iv.), a passing word ofnotice here. The remaining part of the district, or that form­ing the 12th Regio, and lying to the W. of theVia Appia, does not present many monument* ofinterest The most striking one, the Thermae An-toninianae, or baths of Cararalla, will be spoken ofunder its proper head. "We have already treated ofthe Bona Dea Snbsaxanea and of the Isium. Closeto the baths just mentioned Caracalla built thestreet called Nova Via, reckoned one of the hand­somest in Rome. (Spart. Carac. 2; Aur. VictCaa. 21.) Respecting the Furtuna Mammosa. weknow nothing more than that the Bans Cnpilo/mamentions a street of the same name in this neigh­bourhood. In the later period of the Empire thiadistrict appears to have contained several splendidpalaces, as the Septem Domus Partiiorum, the 3 c 3