OCR Output 84 THK PKLOPONNESIAN WAR. the Samians and Milesians about Priene. The Milesians,having the worst in the dispute, had recourse to the Athenians,to whom they bitterly exclaimed against the Samians. Nay,even some private citizens of Samos joined with them in thisoutery, whose scheme it was to work a change in the govern­ment. The Athenians therefore, putting to sea with a fleet offorty sail, landed upon Samos, where they set up a democracy;and exacted from them fifty boys and as many grown men forhostages, whom theydeposited at Lemnos. Theyhad farther,at their departure, left a garrison behind to secure that island.But a body of Samians, who would not submit to the newform of government, and therefore had refuged themselvesupon the continent, having gained the correspondence of themost powerful persons abiding in Samos, and the' alliance ofPissuthncs son of Hystaspes, at that time governor at Sardis, the scheme nowcarrying on by Pericle9, to extend the sovereignty or Athensby sea. Yet the comic poets and writers of memoirs and private history,give another account of the affair, which it is surprising to find the authorsof the Universal History inclined to think as welt founded as what is givenby Thucydides, that " Pericles engaged the republic in this war, merelyto gratify the resentment of Aspasia, who was a native of Miletus, againstthe Samians." As this Aspasia had all the honour of Pericles's merit im­puted to herself, and he hath suffered a weight of reproach in her behalf,the reader will accept a short account of this famous lady. She is allowedon all hands to have been a woman of the greatest beauty and the first ge­nius ; but averred by some to have been a libertine, a prostitute, a bawd,nay every thing scandalous and vile. Pericles was doatingly fond of her,and got divorced from a wife whom he did not love, to marry her. Shetaught him, it is said, his refined maxims of policy, his lofty imperial elo­quence ; nay, even composed the speeches on which so great a share of hisreputation was founded. The best men in Athens frequented her house,and brought their wives to receive lessons from her of economy and right.deportment. Socrates himself was her pupil in eloquence, and gives herthe honour of that funeral oration which he delivers in the Menexenus ofPlato. There must have been some ground even for complimenting her inthis extraordinary manner. And after every abatement, what must wethink of a lady who was in such high esteem with the greatest men thatever lived at Athens, who taught force to orators, grace to philosophers,and conduct to ministers of state ; in a word, who had Pericles for herlover, and Socrates for her encomiast ? See Bayle's Dictionary, under Peri­cles, and Universal History, vol. vi. p. 415, note. £