OCR Output 8 LIVY. pendency of Latium, will yet pay so much regard tdthe connexion subsisting between us, as to offer an as­sociation on terms of equality, as it has pleased thegods that the strength of both should be, as it is, com­pletely balanced. One of the consuls must be chosenout of Latium, the other out of Rome; the senate mustconsist of an equal number of each nation ; we mustbecome one people, one republic; and, in order thatboth may have the same sea. of government, and thesame name, as one side or the other must make theconcession, let this, to the happiness of both, have theadvantage of being deemed the mother country, andlet us all be called Romans.' The Romans happenedto have a consul, Titus Manlius, of a temper as vehe­ment as that of Annius, who, so far from restraininghis anger, openly declared that if the conscript fathersshould be so infatuated as to receive laws from a manof Setia, he would come into the senate, with his swordin hand, and put to death every Latine that he shouldfind in their house ; then turning to the statue of Jupi­ter, he exclaimed, 'Jupiter, hear these impious de­mands; hear justice and equity. O Jupiter, are youas if overpowered and made captive, to behold in yourconsecrated temple a foreign consul and a foreign se­nate ? Are these, Latines, the treaties which the Romanking, Tullus, made with the Albans your forefathers,or which Lucius Tarquinius afterwards concluded withyourselves? Does not the fight at the lake Regillusrecur to your thoughts? Are your calamities of old,and our recent kindnesses towards you, intirely ob­literated from your memories V 6. These words of the consul were followed by ex­pressions of indignation from the senators; and it isrelated, that in reply to the frequent addresses to thegods, whom the consuls often invoked as witnesses tothe treaties, Annius was heard to express contempt ofthe divinity of the Roman Jupiter. However, beinginflamed with wrath, and quitting the porch of thetemple with hasty steps, he fell down the stairs, andwas dashed against a stone at the bottom with such