OCR Output AN. 469 144.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and Europe, and to the governors of thecities, that they might safely conduct themto their own country. Accordingly, as theyreturned, they came to Sparta; and deliveredthe epistle which they had received of Jona­than to them. A copy of which here follows:"Jonathan the high-priest of the Jewishnation, and the senate, and body of the peo­ple of the Jews, to the Ephori, and senate,and people of the Lacedaemonians, sendgreeting. If you be well, and both yourpublic and private affairs be agreeable toyour mind, it is according to our wishes. Weare well also.* When in former times anepistle was brought to Onias, who was thenour high-priest, from Areus, who at that timewas your king, by Demoteles, concerning thekindred that was between us and you, a copyof which is here subjoined; we both joyfullyreceived the epistle, and were well pleasedwith Demoteles, and Areus. Although wedid not need such a demonstration; becausefwe were satisfied about it, from the sacredwritings; yet did not we think fit first to be­gin the claim of this relation to you; lest weshould seem too early in taking to ourselvesthe glory which is now given us by you. It isa long time since this relation of ours to youhath been renewed: and when we, upon holyand festival days, offer sacrifices to God, wepray to him for your preservation and victory.As to ourselves, although we have had manywars that have compassed us round, by rea­son of the covetousness of our neighbours,yet did not we determine to be troublesomeeither to you, or to others that were relatedto us. But since we have now overcome our * See Book XII. chap. 4. t This clause is otherwise rendered in the first book ofMaccabees xii. 9. "For that we have the holy booksof Scripture in our hands to comfort us." The Hebreworiginal being lost, we cannot certainly judge which wasthe truest version. Only the coherence favours Josephus.But if this were the Jews' meaning, that they were satis­fied out of their Bible, that the Jews and Lacedaemonianswere of kin; that part of their Bible is now lost; for wefind no such assertion in our present copies. J Those that suppose Josephus to contradict himself inhil three several accounts of the notions of the Pharisees;this here, and that earlier one, which is the largest. Of theWar, II. 8. and that later, Antiq. XVIII. I. as if he some­times said they introduced an absolute fatality, and deniedall freedom of human actions, is almost wholly groundless.He ever, (as the learned Casaubon here truly observes ;)asserting that the Pharisees were between the Essenes and enemies, and have occasion to send Nume-nius, the son of Antiochus, and Antipater,the son of Jason, who are both honourablemen belonging to our senate, to the Romans,we give them this epistle to you also: thatthey might renew that friendship which isbetween us. You will therefore do well towrite to us, and send an account of what youstand in need of from us: since we are in allthings disposed to act according to your de­sires." So the Lacedaemonians received theambassadors kindly; and made a decree forfriendship and mutual assistance, and sent itto them. At this time there were three sects amongthe Jews, who had different opinions concern­ing human actions. The one was called thesect of the Pharisees; another the sect oftheSadducees; and the other the sect of theEssenes. Now the JPharisees say that someactions, but not all, are the works of fate:and some of them are in our own power;and that they are liable to fate, but are notcaused by it. But the sect of the Essenesaffirm, that fate governs all things; and thatnothing befalls men but what is according toits determination. And for theSadducees,theysay there is no such thing as fate, and that theevents of human affairs are not at its disposal:but they suppose that all our actions are inour own power; so that we are ourselves thecauses of what is good, and receive what isevil from our own folly. However, I havegiven a more exact account of these opinions,in the second book of the Jewish War. Now the generals of Demetrius being will­ing to recover the defeat they had sustained, Sadducees, and did only so far ascribe all to fate or DivineProvidence, as was consistent with the freedom of humanactions. However, their perplexed way of talking aboutfate or Providence, as overruling all things, made it com­monly thought they were willing to excuse their sins byascribing them to fate; as in the Apostolical Constitutions,VI. 6. and Jerom advers. Pelag. 10. Perhaps under thesame general name some difference of opinions in thispoint might be propagated: as is very common in all par­ties: especially in points of metaphysical subtility. How­ever our Josephus, who in his heart was a great admirerof the piety of the Essenes, was in practice a Pharisee;as he himself informs us, in his own life. And his accountof this doctrine of the Pharisees is certainly agreeable tohis own opinion: who ever both fully allowed the free­dom of human actions; and yet strongly believed the pow­erful interposition of Divine Providence. See concerningthis matter a remarkable clause, Antiq. XVI. 11. 4 F2