OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— 221 BOOK XXIX. 36. Various stores were imported from Sicily andItaly; and besides the corn collected from all quartersof the adjacent country, Cneius Octavius, propretor,brought a vast quantity out of Sardinia from TiberiusClaudius, the pretor: in consequence of which, notonly the granaries already built were filled, but new oneswere erected. Clothing was wanted for the troops:that matter was given in charge to Octavius, with di­rections to apply to the pretor, and to try if any couldbe procured by him; a business which he carefullyattended to, for in a short time twelve hundred gownsand twelve thousand jackets were sent. During thesame summer in which these things passed in Africa,Publius Sempronius, consul, who had the province ofBruttium, on his march in the district of Croton,engaged Hannibal in a tumultuary battle, or rathera kind of skirmishing. The Romans were worsted;and one thousand two hundred of the consul's armyslain. The rest returned in confusion to the camp,which however the enemy did not dare to assault.During the silence of the following night Semproniusmarched away; and, having sent directions to Pub­lius Licinius, proconsul, to bring up his legions, hemade a junction of their forces: thus two commandersand two armies returned on Hannibal. Neither partydeclined an engagement; the consul deriving confi­dence from his forces being doubled; the Carthagi­nian, from his late victory. Sempronius led up hisown legions into the first line, those of Licinius wereplaced in reserve. In the beginning of the battle theconsul vowed a temple to Fortuna Primigenia, if heshould defeat the enemy on that day; and the objectof his vow was accomplished. The Carthaginianswere routed and put to flight: above four thousandfell, somewhat less than three hundred were madeprisoners, with whom were taken forty horses, andeleven military standards. Hannibal, dismayed bythis overthrow, drew oft' his army to Croton. At thesame time Marcus Cornelius, consul, not so much byforce of his arms as by the terror of his judicial pro­