OCR Output 512 PAESTUM. PAEONES. (HaiovitL, Time. ii. 99; Polyb. v. 97, xxiv. 8;Strab. rii. pp. 313, 318, 329, 331; Ptol. iii. 13.§ 2S; Liv. xxxiii. 19, xxxviii. 17, xxxix. 54, xl. 3,xlv. 20; Plin. iv. 17, vi. 39) was curtailed of itsdimensions, on every side, though the name stillcontinued to be applied in a general sense to thegreat belt of interior country winch covered Upperand Lower Macedonia to the N. and NE., and aportion of which was a monarchy nominally inde­pendent of Macedonia until fifty years after thedeath of Alexander the Great. The banks of the"wide-flowing Ax ins " seem to have been thecentreof the Paeonian power from the time when Pyraechinesand Asteropaeus led the Paeonians to the assistance ofPriam (Horn. //. cc), down to the latest existence ofthe monarchy. They appear neither as Macedo­nians, Thraeians, or Illyrians, but professed to bedescended from the Teucri of Troy. When Mega-bazus crossed the river Strymon, lie conquered thePaeonians,of whom two tribes, called the Siropaeonesand Paeoplae, were deported into Asia by expressorder of Dareius, whose fancy had been struck atSard is by seeing a beautiful and shapely Paeonianwoman carrying a vessel on her head, leading ahorse to water, and spinning flax, all at the sametime. (Herod, v. 12—16.) These two tribes werethe Paeonians of the lower districts, and theircountry was afterwards taken possession of by theThrae.ians. When the Temenidae had acquiredEmathia, Almopia, Crestonia, and Mygdoma, thekings of Paeonia still continued to rule over thecountry beyond the straits of the Axius, until Philip,son of Amyntas, twice reduced them to terms, whenweakened by the recent death of their king Agis; andthey were at length subdued by Alexander (Diodor.xix. 2. 4, 22, xvii. 8); alter which they were pro­bably submissive to the Macedonian sovereigns. Aninscribed marble which has been discovered in theacropolis of Athens records an interchange of goodoffices between the Athenians and Audoleon, king ofPaeonia, in the archon.-dnp of Diotimus, B.C.354, or afew years after the accession of Philip and Audoleonto their respective thrones. The coins of Audoleon,who reigned at that time, and adopted, after thethe deatli of Alexander, the common types of thatprince and his successors, — the head of Alexander ,in the character of young Heracles, and on the ob- jverse the figure of Zeus Aetopborus,— prove the ci­vilisation of Paeonia under its kings. Afterwardskings of Paeonia are not heard of, so that their im­portance must have been only transitory; but it iscertain that during the troublous times of Macedonia,that is, in the reign of Cassauder, the principality ofthe Paeonians existed, and afterwards disappeared.At the Roman conquest the Paeonians on the \V". ofthe Axius were included in Macedonia Secunda.Paeonia extended to the Dentheletae and Maedi ofThrace, and to the Dardani, Penestae, and Dassaretiiof Illyria, comprehending the various tribes whooccupied the upper valleys of the Erigon, Axius.Strymon and Augitas as far S. as the fertile plainof Siiis. Its principal tribes to the E. were theOdomanti, Ae^traei, and Agrianes, parts of whosecountry wen- known by the names of Parstrymoiiiaand Paroreia, the former containing probably thevalleys of the Upper Strymon, and of its great tribu­tary the river of Strumitza, the latter the adjacentmountains. On the W. frontier of Paeonia its sub­divisions burderiug on the Penestae and Dassaretiiwore Deuriopus and Pelagonia, which with Lyn-cestis comprehended the entire country watered by the Erigon and its branches. (Leake, .VertkenGreece, vol. iii. pp. 212, 306, 462. 470.) [E.B.J.]PAEO'XIA. [Paeoxes.]PAEO'NIDAE. [Attica, p. 326, t.]PAEOPLAE. [Paeohes.]PAESIC1. [AsTt REs, p. 249.1PAESTANUS SIM'S. [Paestvm.]PAESTUM (ndiarov, Ptol.; nattrros, SoikiEth. Uata-TaviU, Paes'anus: Kuins at /V*nl*(iNof Lucania, on the Tyrrhenian sea, about i nuT»Sof the mouth of the Silarus. It was orirun.*'Greek coiony, named Posii»onia (n<xrnW.8: £iiriyotifiwi'taTT}1;), and was founded by a col fnBSybaris, on the opposite coast of Lucania. (Sti? 1p. 251: Seynm. Ch. 245; Scyl. p. 3. § 11) Thdate of its foundation is uncertain, but it miy p"bably be referred to the period of the chief pn»}*riof Sybaris, when that city ruled over the 1Lucania, from one sea to the other, or from510 b.c [Sybaris.] It may be observed,that Snlinus calls Posidonia a I>oric col ny: ■though his authority is worth little in itfrit*.Cconfirmed by the occurrence of Doric forms 121of the city: hence it seems probable that tfcf lMsettlers from Troezen, who formed part of ti* •ginal colony of Sybaris, but were snb^equra'-rt tpclled by the Achaeans(Arist. PoL v. 3). rmj bmainly contributed to the establi>ln:e:it *: ■ scolony. According to Strabo it was onginalW i«uflclose to the sea, but was subsequently removd Ither inland (Strab. I.e.); the change, bowser, 1not considerable, as the still existing nuns d'ancient city are little more than half a mile ithe coast. We know scarcely anything of the early h-.iff!Posidonia. It is incidentally mentioned by Utr^t(i. 107) in a manner that proves it to havr II already in existence, and apparently as a, rable town, at the period of the foundatk* <*neighbouring Velia, about b.c. 540. But this ■only notice of Posidonia until after the fail 4parent city of Sybaris, B.C. 510. It ha» beea 1posed by some modern writers that it re«T*t<great accession to i:s population at that pnvid:Herodotus, who notices the Sybarites as, setilaithat occasion at Latis and Scidrus, does m4 ijto Posidonia, (Her*l. vi. 21.) There are. nJfew among the cities of Magna GraeciAhear less in history; and the only evidence dflourishing condition and prosperity of Ptaod-aito l>e found in the numbers of its coins aoj asplendid architectural remains, so well kuevo ■temples of Paestum. From its northerly p>fiamust have been one of the first cities thai *aifrom the advancing power of the Lucajiian-.was certainly one of the first Greek cotoose*fell into the hands of that people. (Strab. v_ p.:The date of this event is very uncertain; but u tbable that it must have taken place before iw<5when the city of Laiis was besieged by tb* L.---*,and had apparently Ijeeome the bulwark: uf 1Graecia on that side. [Mauna Grakcia.Jfrom a curious passage of Aristoaenus (<ia. Jxiv. p. 6't2) that the Greek inhabitant* were apolled, but compelled to submit to the atjrjvithe Lucaniaus. and receive a bar ban .\3 ■their walls. They still retained many oftoms, and for ages afterwanbt continued to aat a certain festival every year witii fcraepurpose of bewailing their captivity, aavithe traditions of their prosperity. It 1