OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 207 (which was not surprising, as most of these fleets hadonly gone in quest of plunder), or even in any formerone. And yet his force could not be fully estimatedfrom a view of the present armament, for not only twoconsuls with their armies had passed from thence be­fore, but there had been almost as many war-vessels intheir fleets as there were transports attending Scipio.These, it is true, were not less than four hundred, butof ships of battle he had only fifty. But the Romanshad more alarming apprehensions from one war thanfrom the other; from the second, than from the former;as well by reason of its being waged in Italy, as of thedreadful destruction of so many armies, together withtheir commanders. Scipio, however, had attracted anextraordinary degree of attention. He had acquired ahigh degree of renown, partly by his bravery, partlyby the happy success which had attended it, and whichgave room to expect from him the most gloriousachievements. Besides, the very object proposed ofpassing into the enemy's country, which had not beenattempted by any general during that war, stronglyroused men's feelings; for he had on all occasionspublicly declared that his intention was to draw Han­nibal away from Italy, to transfer the war to Africa,and to finish it there. Not only the whole of the in­habitants of Lilybaeum crowded together to the harborto get a view of them, but also deputies from all partsof Sicily; who came for the purpose of showing thatmark of respect, not only to Scipio, but to MarcusPomponius, pretor of the province. The legions like­wise, which were to be left on the island, quitted theirquarters in compliment to their fellow-soldiers. In aword, the fleet exhibited a grand prospect to those onland, and the land to those on ship-board, it beingcovered all round with the admiring multitude. 27. As soon as day appeared, a herald having com­manded silence, Scipio, in the admiral's ship, spokethus: 'Ye gods and goddesses, who preside over theseas and lands, I pray and beseech you that whateveraffairs have been carried on, or shall hereafter be car­