OCR Output 392 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. spread itself to others that were most nearly related to him j andhow, at last, he was so distracted that he became an actor in thescenes, and upon the theatre, I omit to say any more about them,because there are writers enough upon those subjects everywhere; but I shall turn myself to those actions of his time inwhich the Jews were concerned. 2. Nero therefore bestowed the kingdom of the lesser Ar­menia upon Aristobulus, * Herod's son, and he added lo Agrip-pa's kingdom four cities, with the toparchies to them belong­ing: I mean Abila, and that Julias which is in Perea, Taricheaalso, and Tiberias of Galilee; but over the rest of Judea hemade Felix procurator. This Felix took Eleazar the arch-rob­ber, and many that were with him, alive, when thev had rava­ged the country for twenty years together, and sent them toRome; but as to the number of the robbers he caused to becrucified, and of those who were caught among them, and whomhe brought to punishment, they were a multitude not to beenumerated. 3. When the country was purged of these, there sprang upanother sort of robbers in Jerufalem, which were called Sicarii,who slew men in the day time, and in the midst of the city;this they did chiefly at the festivals, when they mingled them­selves among the multitude, and concealed daggers under theirgarments, with which they stabbed those that were their ene­mies ; and when any fell down dead, the murderers became apart of those that had indignation against them, by which meansthey appeared persons of such reputation that they could by nomeans be discovered. The first man who was slain by them wasJonathan the high-priest, after whose death many were slain e-very day, while the fear men were in of being so served wasmore afflicting than the calamity itself, and while c-.very bodyexpected death every hour, as men do in war, so men were o-bliged to look before them, and to take notice of their enemiesat a great distance; nor, if their friends were coming to them,durst they trust them any longer; but, in the midst of theirsuspicions and guarding of themselves, they were slain. Suchwas the celerity of the plotters against them, and so cunningwas their contrivance. 9. There was also another body of wicked men gotten toge­ther, not so impure in their actions, but more wicked in theirintentions, which laid waste the happy state of the city no lessthan did these murderers. These were such men ss deceived anddeluded the people under pretence of divine inspiration, but werefor procuring innovations and changes of the government; and these,* i. e. Herod king ef Chalet:.