OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 77 action, which exceeded, perhaps in a tenfold proportion,the ability of the farmer; and his distress was aggravatedby the partial injustice of weights and measures, and theexpense and labour of distant carriage. In a time ofscarcity, an extraordinary requisition was made to the ad­jacent provinces of Thrace, Bithynia, and Phrygia; butthe proprietors, after a wearisome journey and a perilousnavigation, received so inadequate a compensation, thatthey would have chosen the alternative of deliveringboth the corn and price at the doors of their granaries.These precautions might indicate a tender solicitude forthe welfare of the capital; yet Constantinople did notescape the rapacious despotism of Justinian. Till hisreign, the straits of the Bosphorus and Hellespont wereopen to the freedom of trade, and nothing was prohibitedexcept the exportation of arms for the service of thebarbarians. At each of these gates of the city, a praetorwas stationed, the minister of imperial avarice; heavycustoms were imposed on the vessels and their merchan­dise; the oppression was retaliated on the helpless con­sumer; the poor were afflicted by the artificial scarcity,and exorbitant price of the market; and a people,accustomed to depend on the liberality of their prince,might sometimes complain of the deficiency of waterand bread/ The aerial tribute, without a name, a law,or a definite object, was an annual gift of 120,000/.which the emperor accepted from his praetorian pre­fect; and the means of payment were abandoned tothe discretion of that powerful magistrate. IV. Even Monopo-such a tax was less intolerable than the privilege ofmonopolies, which checked the fair competition ofindustry, and, for the sake of a small and dishonestgain, imposed an arbitrary burden on the wants andluxury of the subject. "As soon (I transcribe the anec­dotes) as the exclusive sale of silk was usurped by the 'John Malala (tom. 2. p. 232.) mentions the want of bread, and !t,ooaras (lib. 14.f . 63.) the leaden niues, which Justinian, or his servants, stole from the aqueducts*