OCR Output 452 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and irritated him against Judas, and accusedhim; alleging that he had undergone manymiseries by his means; and that he would domore mischief unless he were prevented, andbrought to punishment; which must be doneby sending a powerful force against him. So Demetrius, being already of opinionthat it would be a thing pernicious to hisown affairs to overlook Judas, now he wasbecoming so great, sent against him Nicanor,the most faithful of all his friends. For he itwas who fled away with him from the city ofRome. He also gave him as many forces as hethought sufficient for him to conquer Judas;and bade him not to spare the nation at all.When Nicanor was come to Jerusalem, hedid not resolve to fight Judas immediately;but judged it better to get him into his powerby treachery.* So he sent a pacific message,and said, there was no manner of necessityfor them to fight, and hazard themselves; andthat he would give him his oath that he woulddo him no harm. For that he only came withsome friends, in order to let him know whatking Demetrius's intentions were; and whatopinion he had of their nation. When Nica­nor had delivered this message, Judas and hisbrethren complied with him; and, suspectingno deceit, they gave him assurances of friend­ship, and received Nicanor and his army.But while he was saluting Judas, and theywere talking together, he gave a certain signalto his troops; upon which they were to seizeupon Judas. But he perceived the treachery,and ran back to his own soldiers, and fledaway with them. So upon this discovery ofhis purpose, and of the snares laid for Judas,Nicanor determined to make open war withhim, and gathered his army together, andprepared for fighting him; and upon joiningbattle with him at a certain village calledCapharsalama, hef beat Judas, and forcedhim to flee to that citadel, which was at Jeru­salem. When Nicanor came down from the citadelunto the temple, some of the priests and elders met him. and saluted him; and shewedhim the sacrifices which they said theyoffered to God for the king. Upon this heblasphemed; and threatened them, that un­less the people would deliver up Judas tohim, upon his return, he would pull down thetemple.J And when he had thus threatenedthem, he departed from Jerusalem. But thepriests fell into tears, out of grief at what hehad said; and besought God to deliver themfrom their enemies. Now Nicanor, when hewas gone out of Jerusalem, and was at a cer­tain village called Bethoron, he there pitchedhis camp; another army out of Syria havingjoined him. And Judas pitched his camp atAdasa, another village, which was thirty fur­longs distant from Bethoron; having no morethan ||one thousand soldiers. And when hehad encouraged them not to be dismayed atthe multitude of their enemies, nor to regardhow many they were against whom they weregoing to fight; but to consider who theythemselves were; and for what great re­wards they hazarded themselves, and toattack the enemy courageously, he led themout to fight; and joining battle with Nicanorhe overcame the enemy after a severe con­flict, and slew many of them; and at last Ni­canor himself fell, as he was fighting glori­ously. Upon his fall the army did not stay;but when they had lost their general, theywere put to flight, and threw down theirarms; Judas also pursued and slew them,and gave notice by sound of trumpet to theneighbouring villages, that he had conqueredthe enemy. Which, when the inhabitantsheard, they put on their armour hastily, andmet their enemies in the face, as they wererunning away, and slew them. Insomuchthat not one of them escaped out of thisbattle: and they were in number nine thou­sand. This victory happened on the thir­teenth day of that month, which by the Jewsis called Adar, and by the Macedonians, Dys-trus. And the Jews thereon ^celebrate thisvictory every year; and esteem it to be a * 1 Mace. vii. 27. f Josephus's copies must have been corrupted, whenthey here give the victory to Nicanor; contrary to thewords following: which imply that he who was beaten,fled into the citadel; which belonged to the city of David,or to mount Sion, and was in the possession of Nicanor'sgarrison, and not of Judas's. As also it is contrary to theexpress words of Josephus's original author, 1 Mace. vii. 32. who sayR. that Nicanor lost about 6000 men, and fledto the city of David. I 2 Mace. xiv. 33. I! Three thousand, see 1 Mace. vii. 40. § Take Hudson's and Spanheim's notes on this place:"This festival for a victory was annually celebrated bythe Jews, in memory of the conquest of Nicanor by Judas,1 Mace. vii. 49. on the 13th of Adar. So do we read ip