OCR Output 82 LIVY. bal a furious conflict began, and dreadful slaughterwas made on both sides; for here were both the gene­rals; here the greater part of the Roman infantry andcavalry; here the Spaniards, veteran troops, and ac­quainted with the Roman manner of fighting; and theLigurians, a race of hardy warriors. To the same partthe elephants were driven, which, at the first onset,disordered the van, and made even the battalions giveground; but afterwards, the contest growing hotter,and the shouts louder, they soon became disobedientto the directions of their riders, rambling up and downbetween the two lines, without distinguishing theirown party, and ranging to and fro, not unlike shipswithout rudders. Claudius in vain attempted to ad­vance up the hill, often calling out thus to his men :—'To what purpose then have we, with so much speed,marched over such a length of way V However, see­ing it impracticable to reach the enemy's line in thatquarter, he drew away some cohorts from his rightwing, where the troops would not be able to act, andled them round behind the line. Then, to the surprisenot only of the enemy but of his friends also, he madea brisk attack on their right flank; and so quick werehis motions, that almost at the same instant when hismen appeared on the flank they likewise attacked therear. Thus the Spaniards and Ligurians were cut topieces on all sides, in front, and flank, and rear; andthe havoc in a short time reached the Gauls. Thesemade very little opposition ; for great numbers of themwere absent from their posts, having slipped away inthe night, and lain down in the fields; while those whowere present, being exhausted by fatigue and want ofsleep, and being naturally ill qualified to endure toil,had scarcely strength remaining sufficient to supporttheir armor. By this time it was mid-day; and whilethey were panting with heat and thirst, they were slainor taken at the will of the Romans. 49. Of the elephants, more were killed by theirguides than by the enemy. These carried a knife, likethat used by shoemakers, with a mallet; and when the