OCR Output 1162 THERMOPTLAF-THERMOPYLAE. tnd E. again is a small stream, named Phoenix,flowing into the Asopus. From the Phoenix to'J'hennopylae tlie distance, Herodotus says, is 15stadia. (Herod, vii. 198—200.) Near the unitedstreams of the Phoenix and the Asopus, Mt. Oetaapproached so close to the morass of the gulf asto leave space for only ■ single carriage. In theimmediate vicinity of the pass is the town ofAnthela, celebrated for the temples of Amphictyonand of the Ampliictyonic Demetcr, containing seatsfir the members of the Amphicytonic council, whoHeld here their autumnal meetings. At AnthelaMount Oeta recedes a little from the sea, leaving aplain a little more than half a mile in breadth, hut•gain contracts near Alpcni, the first town of theLocrian.s, where the spare is again only sufficient fora single rarrbge. At this pass were some hotsprings, which were con>eu*ated to Hercules (Stral>.ix. p. 4*28), ami were called bj the natives Chytrior the Pans, tin account of the cells here preparedfur the bathers. Across this pass the Phocians hadin ancient times built a wall to defend their countryagainst the attacks of the Thessalians, anil had letloose the hot water, so as to render the pass imprac­ticable, (Herod, vii. 200, 176.) It npjjears fromthis description that the proper Thermopylae watthe narrow paM near the Locrian town of Alpcni;but the name was also applied in general to thewhole paaaagc from the mouth of the Asopus toAlpcni. Taking the term in this acceptation,Thermopylae consisted of the two narrow oj*»nings,with a plain between them rather more than a Rulein length and about half a mile in breadth. Thatportion of Mt. Oeta. which rises immediately aboveThermopylae is called Calhdromon by Livy andStrata, but both writers are mistaken in describingit as the highest part of the range. Livy says thatthe pass is fit) stadia in breadth. (Liv. xxxvi. 15;Strab. ix. p. 428.) In consequence of the accumulation of soil broughtdown by the Spercheius and the other rivers, threeor four miles of new land have been formed, and themountain forming the gates of Thermopylae is nolonger close to the sea. Moreover, the S|jercheius,instead of Howing into the sea in an easterly direc­tion, considerably W. of Thermopylae, now continuesits course parallel to the pass and at the distance ofa mile from it, falling into the sea lower down, tothe EL of the pass, The rivers Dyras, Melts, andAsopu?, which formerly reached the sea by differ­ent mouths, now discharge their waters into theSpercheius. In addition to this there has been acopious de|*>sit from the warm springs, and a con­sequent formation of new soil in the pass itself.The present condition of the pass has been describedby Colonel Leake with his usual clearness and accu­racy. Upon entering the western opening, Leakecrossed a stream of warm mineral water, runningwith great rapidity towards the Spercheius, andleaving a great quantity of red deposit. This isundoubtedly the Phoenix, which probably derivedits name from the colour of the sediment. Aftercrossing a second salt-spring, which is the source ofthe Phoenix, and a stream of cold salt water, Leakeentered upon that which Herodotus calls the plainof Anthela, which is a long triangular slope, fonnedof a hard gravelly soil, and covered with shrubs.There is an easy descent into this plain over themountains, so that the western opening was of noimportance in a military point of view. Upon reach­ing the eastern pass, situated at the end of the plain of Anthela, the traveller reaches a vbit* cir*i>dsoil formed by the deposit of the «h*prinfi 4 iWproper Thermopylae. There are two priacipal amof these springs, the upper or wsten bnafiaaa-diately at the foot of the highest part d uW dLand the lower or eastern being SOU rsnjj dtiat.From the lower source the water is catiwadmmartificial < anal for a distance nf 400 yard* t» »aiThis water emits a strong sulphureous npnar.mias it issues from the mill, it poors eat t [as| volume of smoke. Beyond the hill tnr emmheights, and in their neighboured irt tw atponds, containing cold water; but as tab we* aof the same composition as the ht<t sjrififACtprobably also hot at its issue. Leake cbaerwa*the water of these pools, like that of the mMpthot source, is of a dark blue colour, thai ilfo&iar,the remark of Pati.<*anias, that the Woes: wnewever saw was in one of ihe baths at Tntnef*e»(Pans. iv. 35. § 9.) The springs at tiu* pat stmuch hotter, and have left a far prafcr mwm,than those at the other end of the pbc. si I»opening which may be called the false TbenaBtjat.Issuing from the pass are foundations of iBeteYwall, doubtless the remains of works by »fc*a ■»pass was at one time fortified; and to the late*tumulus and the foundations of a cimltr asa>meat Upwards of a mile further i* a dnr-in which the torrents descending from Nfc-OaVdromon, are collected into one bed, sad ■oiciiefsa1the easiest and most direct passage to the seas*of the mountain. This is probably the r»aaa»path by which the Persians, under HyasraatVscended in the rear of Leonidas and hit aaspeamThis path, as well as the mountain smahes*leads, is called Anopaea (tj 'Arvram) by h^nVBVwho does not use the name of CalaJjasaa. mtle.srriW's the j«a!h as Winning :it ihepr&ft*Asopus, passing over the crest of tbe nwiti^ealterminating near Alpeni and the rock calaitVlainpygus, and the (teats of the Cenwps. *1road is narrowest, (Herod, vii. 216.) 1stof the defence of Thermopylae by Leans* ■well known to require to be related ben. '»of the Phocians, which Leonidas repaind. «■bably built a little eastward of thespring. When the Spartan kin?dames wa? descending in his rear, beyond the wall into the widest part af tatresolved to sell his life as dearly as fthe arrival of Hydarnes, the Geeefc*the wall, and took up their positionthe pass {xoKetvos 4¥ rjj fitroty), whm alion was afterwards erected in hoouor rf"This hill Leake identify with tbetwo small heights already described,the position of the Phociin wall, and tatpart of the pea*. The other heightrock Melampygus. Thennopylae is immortalised by tb» 1fence of Leonidas ; bat it was also tstsome important struggles in later279 an allied army of tbe Greek*pass to oppose the Gauls undermarching into southern Greece with to*laging the temple of Delphi. The Greebground for several days against theGauls, till at length the Heracleota* andconducted the invaders acmes Modalby the same path which Hydarors hadcenturies before. The Greeks, finding thar