OCR Output 804 THE DECLINE AND FALL From the northern point of Beles,(l) on the Euphrates, a line of fifteen hundredmiles is terminated by the straits of Babelmandel and the land of frankincense,About half this length may be allowed for the middle breadth from east to west,from Bassorato Suez, from the Persian gulf to the Red Sea. (2) The sides ofthe triangle are gradually enlarged, and the southern basin presents a front of athousand miles to the Indian ocean. The entire surface of the peninsula exceedsin a fourfold proportion that of Germany or France; but the far greater part hasbeen justly stigmatized with the epithets of the stony and the sandy. Even thewilds of Tartary are decked by the hand of nature with lofty trees and luxuriantherbage; and the lonesome traveller derives a sort of comfort and society from thepresence of vegetable life. But in the dreary waste of Arabia, a boundless level ofsand is intersected by sharp and naked mountains, and the face of the desert,without shade or shelter, is scorched by the direct and intense rays of a tropicalsun. Instead of refreshing breezes, the winds, particularly from the south-west,diffuse a noxious and even deadly vapour; the hillocks of sand, which they alter­nately raise and scatter, are compared to the billows of the ocean, and whole ca­ravans, whole armies, have been lost and buried in the whirlwind. The commonbenefits of water are an object of desire and contest; and such is the scarcity ofwood, that some art is requisite to preserve and propagate the element of fire.Arabia is destitute of navigable rivers, which fertilize the soil, and convey its pro­duce to the adjacent regions: the torrents that fall from the hills are imbibed bythe thirsty earth: the rare and hardy plants, the tamarind or the acacia, that striketheir roots into the clefts of the rocks, are nourished by the dews of the night; ascanty supply of rain is collected in cisterns and aqueducts; the wells and springsare the secret treasure of the desert; and the pilgrim of Mecca,(3) after manya dry and sultry march, is disgusted by the taste of the waters, which haverolled over a bed of sulphur or salt. Such is the general and genuine pictureof the climate of Arabia. The experience of evil enhances the value of any localor partial enjoyments. A shady grove, a green pasture, a stream of fresh water,are sufficient to attract a colony of sedentary Arabs to the fortunate spots whichcan afford food and refreshment to themselves and their cattle, and which encou­rage their industry in the cultivation of the palm-tree and the vine. The highlands that border on the Indian ocean are distinguished by their superior plenty ofwood and water; the air is more temperate, the fruits are more delicious, the ani­mals and the human race more numerous: the fertility of the soil invites and re­wards the toil of the husbandman; and the peculiar gifts of frankincense,(4) andcoffee have attracted in different ages the merchants of the world. If it be com­pared with the rest of the peninsula, this sequestered region may truly deserve theappellation of the happy: and the splendid colouring of fancy and fiction has beensuggested by contrast and countenanced by distance. It was for this earthly pa­radise that nature had reserved her choicest favours and her most curious work­manship: the incompatible blessings of luxury and innocence were ascribed to thenatives: the soil was impregnated with gold(5) and gems, and both the land andsea were taught to exhale the odours of aromatic sweets. This division of thesandy, the stony, and the happy, so familiar to the Greeks and Latins, is unknownto the Arabians themselves: and it is singular enough, that a country, whose lan­guage and inhabitants have ever been the same, should scarcely retain a vestige ofits ancient geography. The maritime districts of Bahrein and Oman are oppo- ribus Notus, and Ire Partie de I'Asie) should lie before the reader with his Geographie Aneienne, torn. ii. p. 208—231. (1) Abulfed. Rescript. Arabia:, p. 1. D'Anville, PEuphrate et le Tigre, p. 19.20. It was in this place, theparadise or garden of a satrap, that Xenophon and the Greeks first passed the Euphrates. (Anabasis, lib. i. c.10. p. 29. edit. Wells.) (2) Reland has proved, with much superfluous learning. 1. That our Red Sea, (the Arabian gulf) is notmore than a part of the Mare Rubrum,tbe EpwSp« &*\*<rtrti of the ancients, which was extended to the indefinitespace of the Indian ocean. 2. That the synonymous words spuSpoj oetfiioi}/;, alluded to the colour of the blacksor negroes. (Dissert. Miscell. torn. i. p. 891—617.) (3) In the thirty days or stations, between Cairo and Mecca, there are fifteen destitute of good water. Seethe route of the Hadjees, in Shaw's Travels, p. 477. (4) The aromatic, especially the thus or frankincense of Arabia, occupy the twelfth book of Pliny. Oargreat poet (Paradise Lost. lib. iv.) introduces, in a simile, the spicy odours that are blown by the north-eastwind from the Sabcean coast:— Many a league, Pleas'd with the grateful scent, old Ocean smiles. (Plin. Hist. Natur. xii.42.) (5) Agatharcides affirms, that lumps of pure gold were found, from the size of an olive to that of a put;that iron was twice, and silver ten times the value of gold, (de Man Rubra, p. 60.) These real or imaginarytreasures are vanished; and no gold mines arc at present known in Arabia. (Niebuhr, Description, p. 124,)