OCR Output 34 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Roman army in Gulussa a cavalry-leader worthy of hisfather, and thereby remedied the want, which had hithertobeen seriously felt, of light cavalry. His refined and yetsimple demeanour, which recalled rather his own father thanhim whose name he bore, overcame even envy, and in thecamp as in the capital Scipio's name was on the lips of all.Even Cato, who was not liberal with his praise, a few months149. before his death—he died at the end of 605 without havingseen the wish of his life, the destruction of Carthage, accom­plished—applied to the young officer and to his incapablecomrades the Homeric line :— He only is a living man, the rest are gliding shades.* While these events were passing, the close of the yearhad come and with it a change of commanders; the consul148. Lucius Piso (606) was somewhat late in appearing and tookthe command of the land army, while Lucius Mancinus tookcharge of the fleet. But, if their predecessors had donelittle, these did nothing at all. Instead of prosecuting thesiege of Carthage or subduing the army of Hasdrubal, Pisoemployed himself in attacking the small maritime towns ofthe Phoenicians, and that mostly without success. Clupea,for example, repulsed him, aud he was obliged to retire iudisgrace from Hippo Diarrhytus, after having lost the wholesummer in front of it and having had his besieging appa­ratus twice burnt. Neapolis was no doubt taken; but thepillage of the town in opposition to his pledged word ofhonour was not specially favourable to the progress of theRoman arms. The courage of the Carthaginians rose.Bithyas, a Numidian sheik, passed over to them with 800horse; Carthaginian envoys were enabled to attempt negotia­tions with the kings of Numidia and Mauretanin and evenwith Philip the Macedonian pretender. It was perhapsinternal intrigues—Hasdrubal the emigrant brought thegeneral of the same name, who commanded in the city, intosuspicion on account of his relationship with Massinissa,and caused him to be put to death in the senate-house—rather than the activity of the Romans, that preventedthings from assuming a turn still more favourable forCarthage.Ssipio.Emi- With the view of producing a change in the state of lianas- * 0?OS TCTTUTOI, Tol Sf 1TKial blffffOWTIV.