OCR Output 26 VESPASIAN. [B. III. rias, and went into Jotapata, and raised the drooping spiritsof the Jews. And a certain deserter told this good news toVespasian, that Josephus had removed himself thither, whichmade him make haste to the city, as supposing that withtaking that he should take all Judea, in case he could butwithal get Josephus under his power. So he took this newsto be of the vastest advantage to him, and believed it to bebrought about by the providence of God, that he who appearedto be the most prudent man of all their enemies, had of hisown accord shut himself up in a place of sure custody. Ac­cordingly, he sent Placidus with a thousand horsemen, andEbutius a decurion, a person that was of eminency both incounsel and in action, to encompass the city round, that Jo­sephus might not escape away privately. 4. Vespasian also, the very next day, took his whole armyand followed them, and by marching till late in the evening,arrived then at Jotapata; and bringing his army to thenorthern side of the city, he pitched his camp on a certainsmall hill which was seven furlongs from the city, and stillgreatly endeavored to be well seen by the enemy, to putthem into a consternation; which was, indeed, so terrible tothe Jews immediately, that no one of them durst go outbeyond the wall. Yet did the Romans put off the attack atthat time, because they had marched all the day, althoughthey placed a double row of battalions round the city, with athird row beyond them round the whole, which consisted ofcavalry, in order to stop up every way for an exit; whichthing making the Jews despair of escaping, excited them toact more boldly; for nothing makes men fight so desperatelyin war as necessity. 5. Now when the next day an assault was made by theRomans, the Jews at first stayed out of the walls, andopposed them, and met them, as having formed themselves acamp before the city walls. But when Vespasian had setagainst them the archers and slingers, and the whole mul­titude that could throw to a great distance, he permittedthem to go to work, while he himself with the footmen gotupon an acclivity, whence the city might easily be taken.