OCR Output 18 SOLD RINGS. yet this was probably intended to signify rather a chain than anornament. And as for the ring of Midas, by the turning of whichthe wearer was rendered invisible, who does not admit, that this isstill more fabulous? Gold obtained its very high estimation frombeing worn on the hand, and always on the sinister hand;1 nothowever by the Romans, who used a ring of iron, as an indicationof their warlike spirit. I cannot exactly say what was the fact with respect to theltoman kings. There is nothing of the kind on the statue ofRomulus in the capitol, nor on any other, except those of Numaand Servius Tullius; not even on that of L. Brutus. I wondermuch that this should be the case with respect to the Tarquins,who came from Greece, from which country the use of these ringswas derived; although now indeed they use iron rings at Lace-daemon. It appears, however, that Tarquinius Priscus was thefirst who presented his son with a golden bulla,2 upon his killingan enemy in battle, while he still wore the praetexta;3 whencethis custom of wearing the bulla was continued, so that the chil­dren of those who had the rank of knight were allowed to havethat badge of distinction, while the others wore a leathern belt.*It therefore appears the more remarkable that the statue ofTarquin should be without a ring. I find that there has been much uncertainty respecting the nameof this article; the Greeks derive it from the finger, (ActxrvXioi)our ancestors styled it Unguium, while latterly both the Greeksand ourselves have called it Symbolum.5 It is certain that, for a 1 "Sinistra ;•* the play upon this word, which the Author intended toconvey, cannot be fully transferred into tha English language. a On the subject of Bullae, see Montfaucon, vol. iii. part 1. book 2. ch. 10.pi. 12. fig. 7...18, and pi. 13. fig. 5; also Adam, p. 414. 3 The toga praetexta was worn by the young men of Rome until theywere 17 years of age; Adam, ubi supra. 4 "Lorum" belt, signifying nodus, or signum de loro, according toJuvenal, v. 16S. s Badge, signet; these were probably like what we now call seal-rings.We have a copious set of references in Adam, p. 428, 9: it does not, how­ever, I think, appear certain that in all these cases, for example, in Plautus,Bacch.2.3.29, the "symbolum" was attached to aring. See also Montfaucon,vol. iii. part 2. book 1. ch. 11, 12, pi. 13. He describes Annuli signatorii, asone species of rings. The ancient gems were some of them cut in relief, andothers engraven en creux; the former were used for the purpose of personalornament, or for being deposited in cabinets, while the latter were set inrings. Besides the seals attached to finger-rings, there were large seals, for