OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 161 of royal birth, it is incumbent on me to observe, thattheir fortunate lover was cast in the best proportions ofstrength and beauty; and that the want of the softergraces was supplied by a manly countenance, a loftystature, athletic muscles, and the air and deportment ofa soldier. The preservation, in his old age, of healthand vigour, was the reward of temperance and exercise.A piece of bread and a draught of water were often hissole and evening repast; and if he tasted of a wild boar,or a stag, which he had roasted with his own hands, itwas the well-earned fruit of a laborious chase. Dexterousin arms,he was ignorantof fear: his persuasive eloquencecould bend to every situation and character of life: hisstyle, though not his practice, was fashioned by the ex­ample of St. Paul; and, in every deed of mischief, hehad a heart to resolve, a head to contrive, and a hand toexecute. In his youth, after the death of the emperorJohn, he followed the retreat of the Roman army; but,in the march through Asia Minor, design or accidenttempted him to wander in the mountains; the hunterwas encompassed by the Turkish huntsmen, and he re­mained some time a reluctant or willing captive in thepower of the sultan. His virtues and vices recommendedhim to the favour of his cousin; he shared the perilsand the pleasures of Manuel; and while the emperorlived in public incest with his niece Theodora, the af­fections of her sister Eudocia were seduced and enjoyedby Andronicus. Above the decencies of her sex andrank, she gloried in the name of his concubine; andboth the palace and the camp could witness that sheslept or watched in the arms of her lover. She accom­panied him to his military command of Cilicia, the firstscene of his valour and imprudence. He pressed, withactive ardour, the siege of Mopsuestia: the day was em­ployed in the boldest attacks; but the night was wastedin song and dance; and |a band of Greek comediansformed the choicest part of his retinue. Andronicus was VOL. VI. M