OCR Output LIVY. briskly approaching the walls, were particularly terri­fying to the Greeks, insomuch, that they immediatelyfled into the citadel, leaving the city in the power ofthe enemy. After holding out for two days in thecitadel, relying more on the strength of the place thanon their arms, on the third both they and the garrisoncapitulated, on condition of their being transported toDelium in Boeotia, and being each of them allowed asingle suit of apparel. The island was yielded up bythe Romans to king Attalus; the spoil, and the orna­ments of the city, they themselves carried off. Attalus,desirous that the island, of which he had got posses­sion, might not be quite deserted, persuaded almost allthe Macedonians, and several of the Andrians, to re­main there; and, in some time after, those who, ac­cording to the capitulation, had been transported toDelium, were induced to return from thence by thepromises made them by the king, in which they weredisposed the more readily to confide, by the ardentaffection which they felt for their native country. FromAndros the combined army passed over to Cythnus:there they spent several days to no purpose, in at­tempting to get possession of the city ; when, at length,finding it scarcely worth the trouble, they departed.At Prasiae, a place on the main land of Attica, twentybarks of the Issrcans joined the Roman fleet. Thesewere sent to ravage the lands of the Carystians, therest of the fleet lying at Geraestus, a noted harbor inEuboea, until their return from Carystus: on which,setting sail together, and steering their course throughthe open sea, until they passed by Scyrus, they arrivedat the island of Icus. Being detained there for a fewdays by a violent northerly wind, as soon as it abated,they passed over to Sciathus, a city which had beenlately plundered and desolated by Philip. The sol­diers, spreading themselves over the country, broughtback to the ships corn and many other kinds of pro­visions. Plunder there was none, nor had the Greeksdeserved to be plundered. Directing their course toCassandrea, they first came to Mendis, a village on