OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL tribes;(l) who, according to the vicissitudes of fortune, had obeyed or disregardedthe eloquence or the arms of the prophet. Indifference for rites and opinions stillmarks the character of the Bedoweens; and they might accept, as loosely as theyhold the doctrine of the Koran. Yet an obstinate remnant still adhered tp the re­ligion and liberty of their ancestors; and the war of Honain derived a proper ap­pellation from the idols, whom Mahomet had vowed to destroy, and whom the con­federates of Tayef had sworn to defend. (2) Four thousand pagans advancedwith secrecy and speed to surprise the conqueror; they pitied and despised the su­pine negligence of the Koreish, but they depended on the wishes, and perhaps theaid, of a people who had so lately renounced their gods, and bowed beneath theyoke of their enemy. The banners of Medina and Mecca were displayed by theprophet; a crowd of Bedoweens increased the strength or numbers of the army,and twelve thousand Mussulmans entertained a rash and sinful presumption oftheir invincible strength. They descended without precaution into the valley ofHonain; the heights had been occupied by the archers and slingers of the confede­rates; their numbers were oppressed, their discipline was confounded, their cou­rage was appalled, and the Koreish smiled at their impending destruction. Theprophet, on his white mule, was encompassed by the enemies; he attempted torush against their spears in search of a glorious death: ten of his faithful compa­nions interposed their weapons and their breasts; three of these fell dead at hisfeet. "O my brethren," he repeatedly cried with sorrow and indignation, "Iam the son of Abdallah, I am the apostle of truth! O man, stand fast jn the faith!O God, send down thy succour!" His uncle Abbas, who like the heroes of Ho­mer, excelled in the loudness of his voice, made the valley resound with the re­cital of the gifts and promises of God: the flying Moslems returned from all sidesto the holy standard; and Mahomet observed with pleasure, that the furnace wasagain rekindled: his conduct and example restored the battle; and he animated hisvictorious troops to inflict a merciless revenge on the authors of their shame.From the field of Honain, he marched without delay to the siege of Tayef, sixtymiles to the south-east of Mecca, a fortress of strength, whose fertile lands pro­duce the fruits of Syria in the midst of the Arabian desert. A friendly tribe, in­structed (I know not how) in the art of sieges, supplied him with a train of bat­tering rams and military engines, with a body of five hundred artificers. But itwas in vain that he offered freedom to the slaves of Tayef; that he violated hisown laws by the extirpation of the fruit trees: that the ground was opened by theminers; that the breach was assaulted by the troops. After a siege of twentydays, the prophet sounded a retreat; but he retreated with a song of devout tri­umph, and affected to pray for the repentance of the unbelieving city. The spoilof this fortunate expedition amounted to six thousand captives, twenty-four thou­sand camels, forty thousand sheep, and four thousand ounces of silver: a tribe whohad fought at Honain, redeemed their prisoners by the sacrifice of their idols; butMahomet compensated the loss, by resigning to the soldiers his fifth of the plun­der, and wished, for their sake, that he possessed as many head of cattle as therewere trees in the province of Tehama. Instead of chastising the disaffection ofthe Koreish, he endeavoured to cut out their tongues, (his own expression,) and tosecure their attachment by a superior measure of liberality: Abu Sophian alonewas presented with three hundred camels and twenty ounces of silver; and Meccawas sincerely converted to the profitable religion of the Koran. The fugitives and auxiliaries complained, that they who had borne the burdenwere neglected in the season of victory. " Alas," replied their ai-tful leader," suffer me to conciliate these recent enemies, these doubtful proselytes, by thegift of some perishable goods. To your guard I intrust my life and fortunes. Youare the companions of my exile, of my kingdom, of my paradise." He was fol­lowed by the deputies of Tayef, who dreaded the repetition of a siege. " Grantns, O apostle of God, a truce of three years, with the toleration of our ancientworship."—"Not a month, not an hour."—"Excuse us at least from the obliga­tion of prayer."—" Without prayer religion is of no avail." They submitted insilence; their temples were demolished, and the same sentence of destruction wasexecuted on all the idols of Arabia. His lieutenants, on the shores of the Red (1) Abulfeda, p. 112—115. Gagnier, torn. iii. p. 67—88. D'Herbelot, Mohammed....(») The siege of Tayef, dirision of the spoil, &e. are related by Abulfeda (p. 117—123.) and Gagnier, (torn.VI"J?" 88—111.) It is Al Jannabi who mentions the engines and engineers of the tribe of Daws. The fertile spot■oi Tayef was supposed to be a piece of the land of Syria detached and dropped in the general deluge.