OCR Output 188 ROMAN EMPIRE. mency or justice of the conqueror. The son of Leo, inthe first year of his reign, had undertaken an expeditionagainst the Saracens: during his absence, the capital,the palace, and the purple, were occupied by his kinsmanArtavasdes, the ambitious champion of the orthodoxfaith. The worship of images was triumphantly re­stored ; the patriarch renounced his dissimulation, or dis­sembled his sentiments; and the righteous claim of theusurper was acknowledged, both in the new and in an­cient Rome. Constantine flew for refuge to his paternalmountains; but he descended at the head of the bold andaffectionate Isaurians; and his final victory confoundedthe arms and predictions of the fanatics. His long reignwas distracted with clamour, sedition, conspiracy, andmutual hatred, and sanguinary revenge: the persecutionof images was the motive, or pretence, of his adversaries;and, if they missed a temporal diadem, they were reward­ed by the Greeks with the crown of martyrdom. Inevery act of open and clandestine treason, the emperorfelt the unforgiving enmity of the monks, the faithfulslaves of the superstition to which they owed their richesand influence. They prayed, they preached, they ab­solved, they inflamed, they conspired; the solitude ofPalestine poured forth a torrent of invective; and thepen of St. John Damascenus/ the last of the Greek fa­thers, devoted the tyrant's head, both in this world andthe next.1 I am not at leisure to examine how far themonks provoked, nor how much they have exaggerated, J John, or Mansur, was a noble Christian of Damascus, who held a consider­able office in the service of the caliph. His zeal in the cause of images exposedhim to the resentment and treachery of the Greek emperor; and on the suspicionof a treasonable correspondence, he was deprived of his right hand, which was mi­raculously restored by the Virgin. After this deliverance, he resigned his office,distributed his wealth, and buried himself in the monastery of St. Sebaa, betweenJerusalem and the Dead Sea. The legend is famous; but his learned editor, fa­ther Lequien, has unluckily proved that St. John Damascenus was already a monkbefore the Iconoclast dispute. (Opera, torn. 1. Vit , St. Joan. Damascen. p. 10—13. et Notas ad loc.) * After sending Leo to the devil, he introduces his heir—TO juiapgr aurou -,i;-.r/i,i.iuu nt xaxia; »UTOU xXnjwoiuo; i» Jurx» ytnftaot. (Opera Damascen. torn. 1. p. 625.)If the authenticity of this piece be suspicious, we are sure that in other works, nolonger extant, Damascenns bestowed on Constantine the title of nai M»M^n8, Xpr-ro/taxpi, mraXiov. (torn. 1. p. 306.)