OCR Output an. 894.] 333 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 051 themselves upon their antiquity. Nor dothey know that these kings are much laterthan they imagine; and that they are notyet eleven hundred years old. Now whenJoram the king of Israel, heard that Ben-hadad was dead, he recovered out of theterror he had been in on his account, andwas very grateful for the restoration ofpeace. CHAP. V. OF THE WICKEDNESS OF JEHOKAM, KING OF JERUSALEM:HIS DEFEAT AND DEATH. JEHORAM, the king of Jerusalem, hadno sooner taken the government uponhim, than he betook himself to the slaughterof his brethren, and his father's friends, whowere governors under him; and thus beganto demonstrate his wickedness.* Nor was heat all better than those kings of Israel whoat first transgressed against the laws of theircountry, and against God's worship. And itwas Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, whomhe had married, who taught him to be a badman in other respects, and also to worshipforeign gods. Now God would not quiteroot out this family, because of the promisehe had made to David. However Jehoramdid not leave off the introduction of new sortsof customs to the propagation of impiety, andto the customs of his own country. Andwhen the Edomites about that time had re­volted from him, and slain their former king,who was in subjection to his father, and hadset up one of their own choosing, Jehoramfell upon the land of Edom, with the horse­men that were about him, and the chariots,by night; and destroyed those that lay nearto his own kingdom; but proceeded no far­ther. However, this expedition did him noservice, for they all revolted from him, withthose that dwelt in the country of Libnah.He was indeed so mad as to compel thepeople to go up to the high places of themountains, and worship foreign gods. As he was doing thus, and had entirely cast the laws of the Hebrews out of his mind,there was brought him an fepistle from theprophet Elijah; which declared that Godwould execute great judgments upon him,because he had not imitated his own fathers;but had followed the wicked courses of thekings of Israel, and had compelled the tribeof Judah, and the citizens of Jerusalem toleave the holy worship of their own God, andto worship idols, as Ahab had compelled theIsraelites to do: and because he had slain hisbrethren, and those men that were righteous.The prophet also gave him notice in thisepistle, what punishment he should undergofor these crimes; namely, the destruction ofhis people, with the corruption of his ownwives and children, and that he should him­self die of a distemper in his bowels, withlong torments; his bowels falling out by theviolence of the inward decay of the parts;insomuch that though he saw his own misery,he should not be able to help himself; butshould die in that manner. It was not long after this, that an army ofthe Philistines, and of those Arabians wholived near to Ethiopia, fell upon the kingdomof Jehoram, and spoded the country and theking's house. They also slew his wives, andhis sons, one only escaping, whose name wasAhaziah. After this calamity he himself fellinto that disease which was foretold by theprophet, and lasted Ja great while: (for Godinflicted this punishment upon him out of hiswrath against him:) and so he died misera­bly; and saw his own bowels fall out. Thepeople also abused his dead body. I supposeit was because they thought that such hisdeath came upon him by the wrath of God;and that therefore he was not worthy to par­take of such a funeral as became kings.Accordingly they neither buried him in thesepulchres of his fathers; nor vouchsafed himany honours, but buried him like a privateman; and this when he had lived forty years,and reigned eight.H And the people of Je­rusalem delivered the government to his sonAhaziah. * An. 894 B. C. t This epistle, in some copies of Josephus, is said tocome to Joram from Elijah, with this addition, "for hewas yet upon earth;" which could not be true of Elijah;who, as all agree, was gone from the earth about fouryears before, and could only be true of Elisha. Nor | perhaps is there any more mystery here, than that thename of Elijah has very anciently crept into the text,instead of Elisha, by the copiers; there being nothing inany copy of that epistle peculiar to Elijah. J Two years: 2 Chron. xxi. 19. II From'895 to 887. 3M2