OCR Output 100 [BOOK III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. God was present at their sacrifices: brightrays darting out thence, and being seen evenby those who were most remote; whichsplendour yet was not before natural to thestone. This has appeared a wonderful thingto such as have not so far indulged them­selves in philosophy, as despise divine reve­lation. Yet will I mention what is still morewonderful; for God declared beforehand bythose twelve stones which the high-priestbare on his breast, and which were insertedinto his breast-plate, when they should bevictorious in battle; for so great a splendourshone forth from them before the army beganto march, that all the people were sensibleof God's being present for their assistance.Whence it came to pass, that those Greekswho had a veneration for our laws, becausethey could not possibly contradict this, calledthe breast-plate the Oracle. Now this breast- Elate and this sardonyx left off shining twoundred years* before I composed this book;God having been displeased at the trans­gression of his laws. Of which things weshall further discourse on a fitter opportunity:but I will now go on with my proposed nar­ration. The tabernacle being consecrated, and aregular order settled for the priests, the mul­titude judged that God now dwelt amongthem; and betook themselves to sacrifices,fand praises to God, as being now deliveredfrom all expectation of evils; and entertain­ing a hopeful prospect of better times here­after. They offered also gifts to God; some as common to the whole nation, and othersas peculiar to themselves, and these tribe bytribe. For the heads of the tribes combinedtogether, two by two, and brought a waggon,and a yoke of oxen; these amounted to six,and these carried the tabernacle, when theyjourneyed; besides which, every head of atribe brought a bowl, a charger, and a spoonof ten daricks4 full of incense. Now thecharger and the bowl were of silver, andtogether they weighed two hundred shekels,but the bowl cost no more than seventy she­kels: and these were full of fine flour min­gled with oil, such as they used on the altar,about the sacrifices. They brought also ayoung bullock, and a ram, with a lamb of ayear old, for a whole burnt offering; as alsoa goat, for the forgiveness of sins. Every oneof the heads of the tribes brought also othersacrifices called peace offerings; for everyday two bulls, and five rams, with lambs of ayear old, and kids of the goats. These headsof tribes were twelve days in sacrificing, onesacrificing every day. Now Moses went nolonger up to mount Sinai; but went into thetabernacle, and learned of God what theywere to do, and what laws shonld be made:which laws were preferable to what havebeen devised by human understanding, andproved to be firmly observed, for all time tocome; as being believed to be the gift ofGod: insomuch that the Hebrews did nottransgress any of those laws, either as temptedin times of peace by luxury, or in times ofwar by distress of affairs. and Titus to the Roman empire, and that in the days ofNero, and before either Galba, Otho, or Vitellus, werethought of to succeed him. Of the War, III. 8, IV. 10,and this confirmed by Suetonius in Vespas. § 5, and Dioin Xiphiline, page 317. This, I think, may be consideredas the very last instance of any thing like the propheticUrim among the Jewish nation, and just preceded the fataldesolation. But how it could possibly come to pass thatsuch great men as Sir John Marsham and Dr. Spencershould imagine that this oracle of Urim and Thummim,with other practices as old, or older than the law of Moses,should have been ordained in imitation of somewhat likethem among the Egyptians, which we never heard of tillthe time of Diodorus Siculus, Elian, and Maimonides, orlittle earlier than the Christian era at the highest, is- almostunaccountable. While the main business of the law ofMoses was evidently to preserve the Israelites from theidolatrous and superstitious practices of the neighbouringpagan nations, and while it is so undeniable that the evi­dence for the great antiquity of Moses's law is incompara­bly beyond that for the like of greater antiquity of such customs in Egypt or other nations, which, indeed, is gene­rally none at all, it is absurd to derive any of Moses's lawsfrom the imitation of those heathen practices. Such hy­potheses demonstrate to us how far inclination can pre­vail over evidence in even some of the most learned partsof mankind. See Dr. Bernard's very valuable notes uponthis chapter, in opposition to Dr. Spencer, as they standat large in Havercamp's edition. * About an. 107, two hundred years before A. D. 93,the thirteenth of Domitian, when Josephus published hisAntiquities. t Of the Jewish sacrifices, the learned reader may consuit the notes in Havercamp's edition, and Dr. Ontram'sexcellent treatise De Sacrificiis. , I These old coins called Daricks, are, I think, firstmentioned by Xenophon in his KiJp* XlcuS. page 339, edit.Hutch, a few years after the beginning of Cyaxares II. orDarius the Mede, (of whose Median name Darius thisseems the only original remains in heathen antiquity,) andthose by him mentioned as vastly large, seem to have beena kind of coronation medals of the same king's.