OCR Output 160 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. to the king also. The son was irritated at this, and threw Arioninto prison. But when Arion's wife had informed Cleopatraof this, with her entreaty, that she would rebuke the child forwhat he had done, (for Arion was in great esteem with her)Cleopatra informed the king of it. And Ptolemy sent for Hyr-canus, and told him, that " he wondered when he was sent to"him by his father, that he had not yet come into his presence,"but had laid the steward in prison." And he gave order,therefore, that he should come to him, and give an account ofthe reason of what he had done. And they report, that the an­swer he made to the king's messenger was this: that " there was"a law of his that forbade a child that was born, to taste of the"sacrifice, before he had been at the temple and sacrificed to God."According to which way of reasoning he did not himself come"to him in expectation of the present he was to make to him,"as to one who had been his father's benefactor: and that he"had punished the slave for disobeying his commands, for that"it mattered not whether a master was little or great; so that"unless we punish such as these, thou thyself mayest also ex-"pect to be despised by thy subjects." Upon hearing this hisanswer he fell a laughing, and wondered at the great soul of thechild. 9. When Arion was apprized that this was the king's dispo­sition, and that he had no way to help himself, he gave the childa thousand talents, and was let out of prison. So after threedays were over, Hyrcanus came and saluted the king and queen.They saw him with pleasure, and feasted him in an obligingmanner, out of the respect they bare to his father. So he cameto the merchants privately, and bought a hundred boys, thathad learning, and were in the flower of their ages, each at a talentapiece; as also he bought a hundred maidens, each at thesame price as the other. And when he was invited to feast withthe king among the principal men in the country, he sat downthe lowest of them all, because he was little regarded, as a childin age still; and this by those who placed every one according totheir dignity. Now when all those that sat with him had laidthe bones of the several parts on a heap- before Hyrcanus, (forthey had themselves taken away the flesh belonging to them,)till the table where he sat was filled full with them; Trypho,who was the king's jester, and wasappointed for jokes and laughterat festivals, who was now asked by the guests that sat at the table[to expose him to laughter]. So he stood by the king, and said,"Dost thou not see, my Lord, the bones that lie by Hyrcanus?"by this similitude thou mayest conjecture that his father made"all Syria as bare as he hath made these bones." - And the kinglaughing at what Trypho said, and asking of Hyrcanus, "How