OCR Output AN. 39.] 531 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them every one: and after that he slew hiswife, and cast their dead bodies down theprecipice, and himself after them; and so un­derwent death rather than slavery. But be­fore he did this, he greatly reproached Herodwith the meanness of his family; although hewas then king. Herod also saw what he wasdoing, and stretched out his hand, and offered^him all manner of security for his life. Bywhich means all these caves were at lengthsubdued entirely. When the king had sent Ptolemy over theseparts of the country, as his general, he wentto Samaria, with six hundred horsemen, andthree thousand armed footmen, as intendingto fight Antigonus. But still this commandof the army did not succeed well with Pto­lemy: but those that had been troublesome toGalilee before, attacked him, and slew him;and when they had done this, they fled amongthe lakes, and places almost inaccessible,laying waste and plundering whatsoever theycould come at in those places. But Herodsoon returned, and punished them for whatthey had done. For some of these rebels heslew; and others of them, who had fled to thestrong holds, he besieged, and both slew them,and demolished their strong holds. Andwhen he had thus put an end to their rebel­lion, he laid a fine upon the cities of a hun­dred talents. In the mean time Pacorus was *fallen in abattle; and the Parthians were defeated, whenVentidius sent Macheras to the assistance ofHerod, with two legions, and a thousandhorsemen: while Antony encouraged him tomake haste. But Macheras, at the instiga­tion of Antigonus, without the approbation ofHerod, as being corrupted by money, wentabout to take a view of his affairs. But Anti­gonus suspecting this intention of his coming,did not admit him into the city, but kept himat a distance, with slinging stones at him;and plainly shewed what he himself meant.But when Macheras was sensible that Herodhad given him good advice, and that he hadmade a mistake in not hearkening to that ad­vice, he retired to the city Emmaus; andwhat Jews he met with he slew, whether theywere enemies or friends; out of the rage hewas in at what hardships he had undergone. * On the 18th of July, according to Pagi.VOL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46. The king was provoked at this conduct, andwent to Samaria, and resolved to go to An­tony about these affairs, and to inform himthat he stood in no need of such helpers, whodid him more mischief than they did his ene­mies; and that he was able of himself to beatAntigonus. But Macheras followed him, anddesired that he would not go to Antony; or ifhe were resolved to go, that he would join hisbrother Joseph with him, and let them fightagainst Antigonus. So he was reconciled toMacheras, upon his earnest entreaties. Ac­cordingly he left Joseph there with his army;but charged him to run no hazards, nor toquarrel with Macheras. But for his own part, he hastened to An­tony; (who was then at the siege of Samo-sata, a place upon Euphrates,) with his troops,both horsemen and footmen, to be auxiliariesto him. And when he came to Antioch, andmet there a great number of men that werevery desirous to go to Antony, but durst notventure to go out of fear, because the Barba­rians fell upon men on the road and slewmany; he encouraged them, and became theirconductor upon the road. Now when theywere within two days' march of Samosata,the Barbarians had laid an ambush to disturbthose that came to Antony; and where thewoods made the passes narrow, as they led tothe plains, there they laid not a few of theirhorsemen; who were to lie still until thosepassengers were gone by, into the wide place.Now as soon as the first ranks were gone by,(for Herod brought on the rear,) those thatlay in ambush, who were about five hundred,fell upon them on the sudden; and when theyhad put the foremost to flight, the king cameriding hard, with the forces that were abouthim; and immediately drove back the enemy.By which means he emboldened his own mento go on; insomuch that those who ran awaybefore, now returned back; and the Barba­rians were slain on all sides. The king alsowent on killing them, and recovered all thebaggage; among which were a great numberof beasts for burden, and of slaves; and pro­ceeded on in his march. And whereas therewere a great number of those in the woodsthat attacked them, and were near the passagethat led into the plain, he made a sally uponthese also, with a strong body of men. and putthem to flight, and slew many of them; and4 O