OCR Output 388 ROMAN EMPIRE. Pursuit of The passion of a Syrian youth completed thethe Dama- ruin of the exiles of Damascus. A nobleman ofthe city, of the name of Jonas,q was betrothed toa wealthy maiden; but her parents delayed the con­summation of his nuptials, and their daughter was per­suaded to escape with the man whom she had chosen.They corrupted the nightly watchmen of the gate Keisan:the lover, who led the way, was encompassed by a squa­dron of Arabs: but his exclamation in the Greek tongue,—The bird is taken, admonished his mistress to hastenher return. In the presence of Caled, and of death, theunfortunate Jonas professed his belief in one God, and hisapostle Mahomet; and continued, till the season of hismartyrdom, to discharge the duties of a brave and sin­cere Mussulman. When the city was taken, he flew tothe monastery where Eudocia had taken refuge; butthe lover was forgotten; the apostate was scorned; shepreferred her religion to her country; and the justice ofCaled, though deaf to mercy, refused to detain by forcea male or female inhabitant of Damascus. Four dayswas the general confined to the city by the obligationof the treaty, and the urgent cares of his new conquest.His appetite for blood and rapine would have been ex­tinguished by the hopeless computation of time and dis­tance; but he listened to the importunities of Jonas,who assured him that the weary fugitives might yet beovertaken. At the head of four thousand horse, in thedisguise of Christian Arabs, Caled undertook the pursuit.They halted only for the moments of prayer; and theguide had a perfect knowledge of the country. For along way the footsteps of the Damascenes were plain i On the fate of these lovers, whom he names Phocyas and Eudocia,' Mr. Hugheshas built the siege of Damascus, one of our most popular tragedies, and whichpossesses the rare merit of blending nature and history, the manners of the timesand the feelings of the heart. The foolish delicacy of the players compelled himto soften the guilt of the hero and the despair of the heroine. Instead of & baserenegade, Phocyas serves the Arabs as an honourable ally; instead of promptingtheir pursuit, he flies to the succour of his countrymen, and, after killing Caled andDerar, is himself mortally wounded, and expires in the presence of Eudocia, whoprofesses her resolution to take the veil at Constantinople. A frigid catastrophe!