OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLiy. wishes and motives to the assembly of thirty curiae or pa­rishes, and the general law of inheritance was suspendedby an occasional act of the legislature. After the permis­sion of the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgatedhis verbal or written testament in the presence of five citi­zens, who represented the five classes of the Roman peo­ple ; a sixth witness attested their concurrence; a seventhweighed the copper money, which was paid by an ima­ginary purchaser; and the estate was emancipated by afictitious sale and immediate release. This singular ce­remony,° which excited the wonder of the Greeks, wasstill practised in the age of Severus; but the praetors hadalready approved a more simple testament, for which theyrequired the seals and signatures of seven witnesses, freefrom all legal exception, and purposely summoned forthe execution of that important act. A domestic mo­narch, who reigned over the lives and fortunes of hischildren, might distribute their respective shares accord­ing to the degrees of their merit or his affection: his ar­bitrary displeasure chastised an unworthy son by the lossof his inheritance and the mortifying preference of astranger. But the experience of unnatural parents re­commended some limitations of their testamentary powrers. A son, or, by the laws of Justinian, even a daughter,could no longer be disinherited by their silence: theywere compelled to name the criminal, and to specify theoffence; and the justice of the emperor enumerated thesole causes that could justify such a violation of the firstprinciples of nature and society." Unless a legitimateportion, a fourth part, had been reserved for the children,they were entitled to institute an action or complaint of ther'only could make a will. (Plutarch, in Solon, tom. 1. p. 164. See Isaeas andJones.) ° The testament of Augustus is Specified by Suetonius, (in Angnst. o. 101. in Ne-ron. c. 4.) who may be studied as a code of Roman Antiquities. Plutarch (Opuscal.tom. 2. p. 976.) is surprised a-rav 5s 5iaflnxa; ypajpxnv infws jwev a■jrotentou<rvt jeta-pmfxovs, ErSfoi 5e iriahova-i rei; oi/fl-iet?. The language of TJlpian (Fragment, tit. 20.p. 627. edit. Sohultiug) is almost too exclnsivc—solum in usu est. I' Justinian (Novel. 115. no. 3, 4.) enumerates only the public and private crimes,for which a sun might likewise disinherit his father.