OCR Output 4}* THE HISTORY B Oiv"* K w?a^^1 ar|d employed in its fervice, their joy received« -^.' - a manifold addition, and their gratitude was raifed toV".R. 3^9. a higher pitch, from the confideration that this had.B.C.403. bcen a voiujlt;ary grant, having never been agita­ted by the tribunes, nor extorted by any requi-fitions of their own. The plebeian tribunes, alone,partook not of the general joy and harmony diffufedthrough every rank, but averred, that " this would'c not prove fuch matter of joy, nor fo advantageous'c to the body of the patricians, as they themfelves"imagined. That the plan appeared better on the"firft' view, than it would prove on experience.'c For how could that money be procured unlefs by"irnpofing a tax on the people? They were gene-'' rous to fome, therefore, at other people's expence."Beddes, even though others thould put up with"this, thofe who had ferved out their time in the"army would never endure, that others fhould fervc"on better terms than they themfelves had done ,"and that they fhouM bear the expence both of then*"own fervice and of the fervice of others." Thefearguments had an effect on great numbers of thecommons. At laft, on the publication of the decreefor levying the tax, the tribunes went fo far, as, ontheir part, to give public notice, that they would fup-port any perfon who Ihould refule his proportion ofthe tax for payment to the foldiers. The patriciansperfifted with perfeverance in fupport of a matter fohappily begun. They firft of all paid in their ownproportion; and there being no fi.lver coined at thattime, fome of them conveying their weighed brafsto the treafury in waggons, gave a pompous appear­ance to their payments. After she feqat.e had withthe ftricteft punctuality made their payments, in pro­portion to their rated properties, the principal ple­beians, connected in friendfhip with the nobility, inpursuance of a plan laid down, began to pay; and,•when the populace law thefe highly commended bypatricians, and alfo refpected as good citizens by thofe