OCR Output 700 EHAETAI. BHACOTIS. but nothing further is known about either ofthem. [L. S.] RHACOTIS. [Alexandres, p- 95.J KHAEBA ('Potto, Ptol. ii. 2. § 10), a town inthe interior of Hibemia, according to Camden (p.1357) H/ieban in Queens County." [T. II. D.] RHAEDESTUS. [Bisantiie.] KHAETEAE ('PaiTeai), a place in the Arcadiandistrict of Cynuria, at the confluence of the Gortj-nius anil Alpheius. (Paus. viii. 28. §3.) RHAETIA ('PaiTia). The name of this country,as well as of its inhabitants, appears in ancient in­scriptions invariably without the A, as Raetia andRaeti, while tlie MSS. of Latin authors commonlyhave the forms Rhaetia and Khaeti,—a circumstancewhich £oe* far to show that the more correct spelling without the Khaetia was essentially an Alpinecountry, bordering in the north on Vindelicia, in theweat on tlie territory inhabited by tlie Helvetii, inthe south on tlie chain of tlie Alps from MonsAdula to Mons Ocra, which separated Rhaetia fromItaly, and in the east on Noricum and Veuetia;hence it comprised the modern Orisons, the Tyrol,and some of the northern parts of Lombardy. Thiscountry and its inhabitants did not attract muchattention in ancient times until the reign of Au­gustus, who determined to reduce the Alpine tribeswhich had until then maintained their independencein the mountains. After a struggle of many yearsKhaetia and several adjoining districts were con­quered by lJrusus and Tiberius, b. c. 15. Rhaetia,within the boundaries above described, seems then tohave been constituted as a distinct province (Suet.Aug. 21; Veil. Pat. ii. 39; Li v. Epit. 136; Aurel.Vict. Epit. 1). Vindelicia, in the north of Rhaetia,must at that time likewise have been a separateprovince; but towards the end of the first centuryA. i». the two provinces appear united as one, underthe name of Rhaetia, which accordingly, in thislatter sense, extended in the north as far as theDanube and the Limes. At a still later period, inor shortly before the reign of Constantine, the twoprovinces were again divided, and ancient Khaetiareceived the name Khaetia Prima, its-capital beingcalled Curia Uhaetoruni (Cfntr); while Vindeliciawas called Rhaetia Secunda. The exact boundary linebetween the two is not accurately defined by the an­cients, but it is highly probable that the Alpine chainextending from the Lake, of Constance to the riverInn was the natural line ot demarcation; it should,however, be observed that Ptolemy (ii. 12) includesunder the name of Khaetia all the country west ofthe river Licus as far as the sources of the Danubiusand Ubeuus, while he applies the name of Vindeliciato the territory between the Licus and Genus. Ancient Rhaetia or Khaetia Proper was throughoutan Alpine country, being traversed by the AlpesRhaeticae and Mons Adula. It contained tlie sourcesof nearly all the Alpine rivers watering the north ofItaly, such as the Addua, Sari us, Olbius, Cleusis,Mincius, and others; but the chief rivers of Khaetiaitself were the Athesis with its tributary the Isargus(or Ilargus), and the Aenus or Oenus. The mag­nificent valleys formed by these rivers were fertileand well adapted to agricultural pursuits; but theinhabitants depended mainly upon their flocks (Strab.vii. p. 316). The chief produce of the valleys waswine, which was not at all interior to that grown inItaly; so that Augustus was particularly partial toit (Strab. iv. p. 206; I'lin. xiv. 3, 5. 8;Virg. Gcorg. ii.516; Colum.iii. 2 ; Martial, xiv. 100; Suet. Aug. 77). Besides this Khaetia produced abundance cf mhoney, pitch, and cheese, in which cvcsiC-riiiie aomerce was carried on. The ancient inhabitants of Rhaetia have btimes attracted mure than ordinary attenutB torntheir supposed connection with the ancient Ktnscx'jThey are first mentioned by Polybius (xxzir. 19comp. Strab. iv. p. 204. vii. pp. 292. 313). AbnHing to tradition the Rhaetian* were Etruscan wahad originally inhabited the plains of Leatirf^but were compelled by the invading Gaai* w oatheir country and take refuge in the Aip*. *tm4they were cut off from their kinsmen, rtsuisain Italy and finally established themselves m Lirsn(Justin, xx. 5; Plin. iii. 24; Steph. B. #. r. 'Pa--*.This tradition derives some support fnan tae hirecorded by Dionysius of Hahcuxuassus (L 2-1J tilthe Etruscans in Etruria called them»rlve. B*<flwhich is believed to be only another form ifname Khaeti. A decision of this question is ii» midifficult because at the time when the Rttsmas rjquered Rhaetia the bulk of its inbabitaLt*Celts, which in the course of a few ecu tori** tecflentirely Romanised. But. assuming that Xht l&a1were a branch of the Etruscan nation, it t> ac< ^1likely that on the invasion of Italy by lie 0*they should have gone back to the Alps arrua »L4they had come into Italy: it seems tuata naprobable to suppose that the Etruscans id tie Alwere a remnant of the nation left behiad t&?"»ithe time when the Etruscans originally nri.TiJinto Italy. But, however this may be. tb* asato obtain a key to the mysterious Language J IEtruscans lias led modern inquirers to searchin the mountains and valleys of ancient Ri-afOiJthey reasonably assumed that, although tir pibody of the population in the time ofconsisted of Celts, who sonn after their su>^fidadopted the language of the c^querur». tt>3»*still exist some traces of its original inbau*uasiithe names of places, and even in the ia^jr^ordinary life. In the districts where the nUi Iremained purest, as in the valley of En^ynJ^ iin the GrOihurthaL the language spoken at jmis a corruption of Latin, the Komaans* a* icalled, intermixed with some Celtic alA *j*r*3elements, and a few words which arc be**wibo neither Celtic, nor German, nor Latin, aaitherefore considered to be Etruscan. Several o(of places also bear a strong resemblance 1* ^of places in Etruria; and, lastlv, a few odmonuments have been discovered which *■some respects like those of Ktraria. Tb* 1who, after many braid and unK.ur,.:**j a.*.-#r2had been made, undertook a thorough ir.Ty>r^of these points, was L. Steub, who pablh-bed VJsuits of his inquiries in a work L'itr d*Haetiens and iftrtn ZitsammeiiJuzng mil £tkrrn, Munich, 1843, 8vo. A few Tc-*rs iz~ wlscholar, Dr. W. Freund, dnrin^ a reskirtKT: a iitia collected a vast number oi facts, veil ai-^ito throw light upon this obscure subject, be) "Asuits of his investigations have ii'>t v»t t^erc: h As to the history of the aucient K:-a-aalready been intimated that they t^came ix>Mthe Romans in the second century b. c. Ttt"»'a wild, cunning, and rapacious tnountaia ailwho indulged their propensity io rub and »Meven at the time when they wer* scl»j*et Vt Uand when their rulers had made a great r«jai 73ritheir country into Koricum QL>ioq Ca>J- U.