OCR Output 3o8 THEHISTORY BOOK berty, which had been fubverted by the power._ ---• granted to the decemvirs, they not only revived, buty.R. 3o6. guarded for the time to come,by enacting a new law:B.C.446. " That no perfon fhould ever elect any magiftrate,"from whom there fhould not be a right of appeal;"and that if any mould clect fuch, then it mould be"lawful and right to put fuch perfon to dead),"and the killing of him mould not be accounted a"capital offence." And when they had providedfufficient barriers for the commons, by the right ofappeal on one fide, and the aid of the tribunes onthe other, they renewed to the tribunes themfclvesthe privilege of being deemed facred and inviolable,a matter which now had been almoft forgotten, re­viving for the purpole certain ceremonies which hadbeen long difufed. And they not only renderedthem inviolable, by this religious inftitution, but bya law, enacting, that " whoever mould offer injury to"the tribunes of the commons, the aediles, or the"judges, his perfon mould be devoted to Jupiter,"and his property confifcated at the temple of Ceres»"Liber and Libera." Lawyers deny, that, by thislaw, any one is rendered facred and inviolable; butjay, that the perfon who offers injury to any of thofe,is deemed to be devoted. Accordingly an aedile isfometimes feized, and put in confinement by fupe-rior magiftrates; which, though it is not a legal pro­ceeding, as offering injury to a perfon exempted bythis law, is yet a proof j that an a:dile is not deemed, facred and inviolable. The tribunes, they allege, be­came facred and inviolable, in conlequence of the oldoath taken by the commons, when they firft createdthat ofTice. Some expofitors have fuppofed, that, bythis lloratian law, the fame exemptions were ex­tended to the confuls alfo, the confuls being termedjudges; and to the prattors, as being elected, underthe fame aufpices, with the confuls. But that ekpo-fition is refuted by this argument, that in thofe times,it was not the cuftom, as it has been fmce, to call aeon-