OCR Output IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 181 "nation, and this because their sufferings were occasioned on"his father's account, while they left the religious worship of"their fathers, and preferred that which he had commanded"them to follow: that there was danger lest the citadel, and"those appointed to garrison it by the king, should be taken"by Judas, and those that were with him, unless he would"send them succours." When Antiochus, who was but achild, heard this, he was angry, and sent for his captains, andhis friends, and gave order, that they should get an army ofmercenaries together, with such men also of his own kingdomas were of any age fit for war. Accordingly, an army was col­lected of about a hundred thousand footmen, and twenty thou­sand horsemen, and thirty-two elephants. 4. So the king took his army, and marched hastily out ofAntioch, with Lysias, who had the command of the whole, andcame to Idumea, and thence went up to the city Bethsura, acity that was strong, and not to be taken without great difficulty;be set about this city, and besieged it. And while the inhabitantsof Bethsura courageously opposed him; and sallied out upon him,and burnt his engines of war, a great deal of time was spentin the siege. But when Judas heard of the king's coming, heraised the siege of the citadel, and met the king, and pitched hiscamp in certain straits, at a place called Bethzachariah, at thedistance of seventy furlongs from the enemy; but the king soondrew his forces from Bethsura, and brought them to those straits.And as soon as it was day, he put his men in battle array, andmade his elephants follow one another through the narrow passes,because they could not be set sideways by one another. Nowround about every elephant there were a thousand footmen, andfive hundred horsemen. The elephants also had high towers[upon their backs], and archers [in them]. And he also madethe rest of his army to go up the mountains, and put his friendsbefore the rest; and gave orders for the army to shout aloud,and so he attacked the enemy. He also exposed to sight theirgolden and brazen shields, so that a glorious splendour was sentfrom them; and when they shouted, the mountains echoedagain. When Judas saw this, he was not terrified, but receivedwe enemy with great courage, and slew about six hundred of thefirst ranks. But when his brother Eleazar, whom they calledAuran, saw the tallest of the elephants armed with royalbreast-plates, and supposed that the king was upon him, he at­tacked him with great quickness and bravery. He also slewMany of those that were about the elephant, and scattered therest, and then went under the belly of the elephant, and smotetorn, and slew him; so the elephant fell upon Eleazar, and byiiis weight crushed him to death. And thus did this man come