OCR Output 74 LIVY. country: in this spot, the whole of the Roman legions:and unless these choose to rush on death for their owngratification, what is there which can be preserved bytheir death? The houses of the city, some may say,and the walls of it, and the crowd who dwell in it.But, in fact, in case of the destruction of this army, allthese are given up to ruin, instead of being saved fromit: for who will protect them ? An unwarlike and un­armed multitude, shall I suppose? Yes, just as theydefended them against the attack of the Gauls. Willthey call to their succor an army from Veii, with Ca-millus at its head ? Here, on the spot, I repeat, areall our hopes and strength; by preserving which wepreserve our country ; by delivering them up to death,we abandon and betray it. But a surrender is shame­ful and ignominious. True : but such ought to be outaffection for our country, that we should save it by ourown disgrace, if necessity required, as freely as by ourdeath. Let us therefore undergo that indignity, bowgreat soever, and submit to that necessity to whicheven the gods themselves are seen to yield. Go, con­suls, ransom the state for arms, which your ancestorsransomed with gold.' 5. The consuls accordingly went to Pontius to con­fer with him; and when he talked in the strain of aconqueror, of a treaty, they declared that such couldnot be concluded without an order of the people, norwithout the ministry of the heralds and the other cus­tomary rites. So that the Caudine peace was not rati­fied by settled treaty, as is commonly believed, andeven asserted by Claudius in. his history, but by con­vention, wherein the parties became sureties. Forwhat occasion would there be either for sureties orhostages in the former case, where the ratification isperformed by the imprecation, ' that whichever nationshall give occasion to the said terms being violated,may Jupiter strike that nation in like manner as theswine is struck by the heralds.' The consuls, lieute­nants-general, questors, and military tribunes, becamesureties; and the names of all these are extant in the