OCR Output 1104 TARRACO. TARRACINA. the most important of the maritime towns subjectto Rome. Its position on the Appian Way, whichhera first touched on the sea (Strab. v. p. 233; Hor.Sat. i. 5. 2G), doubtless contributed to its prosperity;and an artificial port seems to have in some decreesupplied the want of a natural harbour. (Liv.xxvii. 4.) In u military point of view also its posi­tion was important, as commanding the passage ofthe Appian Way, and the narrow defile of Lautulae. Xwhich was situated a short distance from the cityon the side of Fundi. (Liv. xxii. 15.) [Lau­tulae.] Under the Roman Republic Tarracina seems tohave continued to be a considerable and flourishingtown. Cicero repeatedly notices it as one of thecustomary halting-placas on the Appian Way, andfor the same reason it is mentioned by Horace onhis journey to RrunduMttm. (Cic. de Orat, ii. 59.ml Fain. vii. 23. nd Att. vii. 5; Hor. Sat. i. 5.26; Appian, B. C. iii. 12; Val. Max. viii. 1. § 13 )At the outbreak of the civil war between Caesarand Pompey, Tarracina was occupied by the latterwith three cohorts under the praetor KutilitisLupus, but they abandoned their post, when Pompeywithdrew to Brandusiura. (Caes. B. C. i. 24; Cic.ad Att. viii. 11, b.) Again, during the civil warbetween Vespasian and Vitellius, Tarracina w:isevidently regarded as a place of importance in amilitary point of view, and was occupied by thepartisans of Vespasian, but was wrested from thornby L, Vitcllius just before the death of his brother.(Tac.///.sr. iii. 57, 76.77.) It was at Tarracinaalso that the funeral convoy of Gennanicus was metby his cousin DrusUS and the chief personages ofRome. (Id. Ann. iii. 2.) The neighbourhoodseems to have been a favourite site for villas underthe Roman Empire: among others the EmperorDomitiaa had a villa there (Martial, v. 1. 6); andit was at another villa near the town, on the road toFundi, tbat the emperor Galba was born. (Suet.Galb. 4.) In addition to the other natural advan­tages of the situation, there existed mineral springsin the neighbourhood, which seem to have beenmuch frequented. (Martial, v. 1. 6, x. 51.8.) Theimportant position of Tarracina doubtless preventedits falling into decay as long as the Western Empiresubsisted. Its name.is found in the Itineraries as aM ci vitas" {I tin. Ant. p. 187; I tin. Bier. p. 611),and even after the fall of the Roman dominion itappears as a fortress of importance during theGothic wars. (Procop. B. G. ii. 2, 4, &c.) The position of Tarracina at the extremity ofthe Pomptine Marshes, just where a projectingridge of the VoUcian mountains runs down to thesea. and separates the marshy tract on the W. froma similar but much smaller tract on the E., whichextends from thence towards Fundi, must in all ageshave rendered it a place of importance. The ancientcity stood on the hill above the marshes. Horacedistinctly describes it as standing on lofty rocks, whichwere conspicuous afar, from their white colour:— "Impositum saxis late candentibus Anxur" (Hor. Sat, i. 5. 26); and the same circumstance isalluded to by other Latin poets. (Lucan, iii. 84;Sil. Ital. viii. 392.) Livy also describes the originalVolscian town as " loco alto situro " (v. 12), thoughit extended also down the slope of the hill towardsthe marshes (u urbs pronain paludes," it. 59). Ata later period it not only spread itself down the hill,but occupied a considerable level at the foot of it (as the modern city still does), in tse lhood of the port. This but must alwiys bin anin great part artificial, but theeib-teortofsnport at Tarracina is noticed by Lirj as eant sb. c. 210. (Liv. xxvii. 4.) It **» ienlarged and reconstructed under the Bjcas Ebvpire, probably by Trajan, and aeain roMsi kfAntoninus Pius. (Capit. Ant P. 8.) Itsarc still distinctly visible, and the vbt4e txmsSthe ancient basin, surruunded by a maacw imay be clearly traced, though tie grtaier pan ait is now filled with sand. Considerable |the ancient walls also still reins.n,partly in the polygonal style, partly is 1st irecent style known to the Romans a* ■ ess* iturn." Several ancient tombs and ruins <rf ibuildings of Roman date are Mill extant is 1modern city and along the line of the Vis iThe modern cathedral stands oq the d sancient temple, of which only the suUtrtrafcsaltwo columns remain. This is generally aid, jthough on very uncertain autbori:y, a leapt!!Apollo. The most celebrated of the tcsrftaalTarracina was, however, that of Jupiter. «La*« Inoticed by Livy (xxviii. 11, xL 45), taa *t Iespecial worship of this deity in the Volscas ejf 1under the title of Jupiter Anxurus is aUucr: i*WVirgil (Aen. vii. 799). He was repre*eai«dl*w>|are told by Somas) as a beautiful yyuia. att it jfigure of the deity corresponding to this jfsxjtsl jis found on a Roman coin of the Vit>taa utsn(Eckbel, vol. v. p. 340.) It is probata tsst#fltemple was situated in the richest part d tillcity, very probably in the ancient citadel, »ta*twcupied the summit of a hill above the Ion. *tawlremains of its walls and substructions an t^ieVltant. Tarracina was distant by the Ma Apf** G r^Wfrom Rome, and 18 from the Forum Afi« (tMAnt p. 107; Itm. Bier. p. 611; W< u BmKamp. p. 68.) Three miles from tneeirf.siflside of the Via Appia, as well as of the ca!*]**nuwas frequently used by travellers, was tbefenlBof Feronia, celebrated by Horace, together na1^|sacred grove attached to it, [Fekosia,] !TJil|n TA'RRACO (Ta^av^, VuA. u. 6. § \'>\mancient city of Spain, probably founded by 'J> flsIBnicians, who called it Tarchon, which, mwaanHBochart, means "a citadel." ThU nasw *■s»*]bably derived from its Mt nation cn a it* ■between 700 and BOO feel above the Jwe find it characterised as M arce peces* Ts(Auson. Clar. Urb. 9; cf. Mart. x. ItH.)seated on the river Sulcia, oo a bay et tie 1Internum, between tlie Pyrenees and uWiberus. (Mela, ii. 6; Plin. iiL 3- a 4)xxii. 22) mentions a " portds Tarrocoui*,* »s4icording to Eratosthenes {op. Strab. iii. p. I*liad a naval station or roads (roMrroi;**);Artemid<>rus (o/>. Strab. L c.; Polyh. iu.'with more probability tbat it had none, adeven an anchoring place; and Strata hunit aV^ft-os. Tins answers better tocondition; for though a niole i15th century with the materials of tbesphitheatre, and another subsequently byiman named John Smith, it stillprotection for shipping. (FordsSpam, p. 222.) Tarraco lay on th»along the S. coast of Spain, (//m. AmC f399,448,452.) ll was"