OCR Output 306 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111. These orders were not given in vain. The wholeRoman cavalry charged the enemy at the same mstant,and put them to flight. Many of them were tumbledfrom their horses, and both together transfixed by thespears of the Romans. The enemy's cavalry were thnsentirely defeated. They turned then upon the foot, having dispatchedan aid-de-camp with the news of their success to theconsuls, who had al&o made some impression on the wmgsthat opposed them. This intelligence redoubled theirardour, and occasioned a great consternation among the.SLqui, who were already giving way. The centre of theenemy's army, which had been thrown into disorder bythe Roman horse, was the first that broke. Quiuctiusbore down the left wing, but on the right there was muchhotter work. Then Agrippa, who was brave and full of fire, seeingthe Romans carrying all before them, excepting wherehe commanded, snatched the standards from the ensigns,and advancing with them in person, threw some of them.into the midst of the enemy's battalions. The soldiersthrough fear of losing them, which would have been agreat disgrace, fell upon the enemy like lions. Thuswas the victory rendered complete, on the side of theRomans. By this time, Quinctius' aid-de-camp cameto inform them, that he had beat the enemy, and wasready to fall upon the enemy's camp, the moment heknew they had done their business in the left wing; andif they were already masters of the field, he orderedthen/to join him immediately,-that all the army mightshare alike in the spoil. Agrippa, now victorious, ad­vanced to his colleague, and after mutual congratulationson their mutual successes, began the attack. The fewthat guarded the camp being easily managed, they brokethrough the works without opposition. The consuls marched back the army to Rome, ladenwith the spoils they had taken from the enemy, exclusiveof all they had lost in the plunder of their country.,which they now totally recovered. It does not appearthat they either demanded, or that the senate decreedthem a triumph; nor is there any reason assigned fortheir neglecting, or despairing to obtain that honour.