OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 69 acribe, and sixty other rulers, all which, together with the ves­sels which they had pillaged, he carried to. the king of Babylonto Riblah, a city of Syria. So the king commanded the headsof the high priest and of the rulers to be cut ofl' there; but hehimself led all the captives, and Zedekiah to Babylon. He al­so led Josedek the high priest away bound. He was the son ofSeraiah the high priest, whom the king of Babylon had slain inRiblah, a city of Syria, as we have just now related.. 6. And now, because we have enumerated the succession ofthe kings, and who they were, and how long they reigned, I thinkit necessary to set down the names of the high priests, and whothey were that succeeded one another in the high priesthood un­der the kings. The first high priest then at the temple whichSolomon built, was Zadoc; after him his son Achimas -receivedthat dignity; after Achimas was Azarias; his son was Joram,and Joram's son was Isus, after him was Axioramus; his sonwas Phideas, and Phideas' son was Sudeas, and Sudeas' sonwas Juelus, and Juelus' son was Jotham, and Jotham's son wasUrias, and Urias' son was Nerias, and Nerias' son was Odeas,and his son was Sallumus, and Sallumus' son was Elcias, andhis son * [was Azarias, and his son] was Sareas, and his sonwas Josadoc, who was carried captive to Babylon. All thesereceived the high priesthood by succession, the sons from theirfather. 7. When the king was come to Babylon, he kept Zedekiahin prison until he died, and buried him magnificently, and de­dicated the vessels he had pillaged out of the temple of Jerusa­lem to his own gods, and planted the people in the country ofBabylon, but freed the high priest from his bonds. CHAP. IX. How Nebuzaradan set Gedaliah over the Jews that were left inJudea, which Gedaliah was a little afterward slain by Ishmael:and how Johanan, after Ishmael was thriven away, .went downinto Egypt with the people, which people Nebuchadnezzar, whenTie made- an expedition against t'he Egyptians, took captive, andbrought them away to Babylon. Ww -yj - <- '' iflif ikJlLY -'".J^K JN ow the general of the army, Nebuzaradan, when he had carried the people of the Jews into captivity, left the * I hfcve here inserted in bracket? this high priest Azarias, though he be omittedin all Josephus' copies, out of the Jewish chronicle, Sedar Olam, of how little au­thority soever I generally esteem such late rabbinical historians, because we knowfrom Josephus himself, that the number of the high priests belonging to this inter­val was eighteen, Antiq. B. XX. chap. x. whereat his copies have here but ssventecn.