OCR Output 328 DECLINE AND TALL [CHAP. XLIV, rian, the Hermogenian, and the Theodosian codes. Thetwo first, of which some fragments have escaped, wereframed by two private lawyers, to preserve the constitu­tions of the Pagan emperors from Hadrian to Constan-tine. The third, which is still extant, was digested insixteen books by the order of the younger Theodosius,to consecrate the laws of the Christian princes from Con-stantine to his own reign. But the three codes obtainedan equal authority in the tribunals; and any act whichwas not included in the sacred deposit, might be disre­garded by the judge as spurious or obsolete."Pori«sof Among savage nations, the want of letters is imper­ial fectly supplied by the use of visible signs, which awakenattention, and perpetuate the remembrance of any publicor private transaction. The jurisprudence of the firstRomans exhibited the scenes of a pantomime; the wordswere adapted to the gestures, and the slightest error orneglect in the forms of proceeding was sufficient to annulthe substance of the fairest claim. The communion ofthe marriage-life was denoted by the necessary elementsof fire and water :° and the divorced wife resigned thebunch of keys, by the delivery of which she had beert in­vested with the government of the family. The manu­mission of a son, or a slave, was performed by turninghim round with a gentle blow on the cheek: a work wasprohibited by the casting of a stone; prescription was in­terrupted by the breaking of a branch; the clenched. fist was the symbol of a pledge or deposit; the righthand was the gift of faith and confidence. The inden­ture of covenants was a broken straw; weights andscales were introduced into every payment, and the heirwho accepted a testament, was sometimes obliged to b Schnlting, Jurisprndentia Ante-Jnstinianea, p. 681—718. Cujacins assigned t6Gregory the reigns from Hadrian to Gatlienus, and the continuation to his fellow-1labourer Hermogenes. This general division may be just; hat they often trespassedon each other's ground. c Soaevola, most prohably Q. Corvidius Scanvola the master of Papinian, considersthis acceptance of fire and water ns the essence of marriage. (Pandect, lib. 24. tit. 1.leg. 66. See Heineccius, Hist. J. B. no. 317.)