OCR Output MESOPOTAMIA. 333 MESPILA. district of Western Asia, deriving its name from itsyreition between the two great rivers Euphrates andTigris. It was hounded on the N. by Armenia andthe S. branch of M. Taurus, on the E. by theTigris, on the W. by the Euphrates, and on theS. bv the Median Wall, which separated it fromrUbylonin. (Strab. xvi. p. 746; Ptol. v. 18.§ I.) Pliny apparently extends it on the southernside as far as the Persian Gulf {v. 24. s. 21) : but,like many other ancient provinces, its limits variedmuch at different periods,—it being sometimes ex­tended so as to comprehend Babylonia, at other timessa a< lo take in parts of Syria. Mesopotamia is noticed among the earliest re­cords of the human race which we have in theBible. It is commonly known by three titles inHoly Scripture: either Aram Naharaim (or•■Syria of th8 Two Waters"), as in Gen. xxiv. 10;or Papas Akam ("Syria of the Plain"), as inGea. xxxi. 18, xxxiii. 18, xxxv. 9; or Sedeh-Abam, '• the field of Aram" {Hot. xii. 12), corre­sponding with the "Campi Mesopotamiae" ofCtnthis (iii. 2. § 3, iv 9. § 6). There are indeedplaces where Akam Mahakadi appears to be usedm a more limited sense for the more northern por­tion of it (DeuL xxiii. 4); while it is equally cer-tiin that it was not supposed to comprehend onlythe flat country of the plain; for Balaam, who is*aid to have been a native of Aram Maharaim (Deut.xxiii. 4), is also in another place stated to havebeen ** brought from Aram out of the mountains ofthe East." (A'runA. xxiii. 7.) It is not certainHow soon in history this country acquired its Greektitle, which is, after all, only a modification of theHoning of the original Hebrew word,—probably,b-nrever, not till after Alexander's invasion of theE»L (Cf. Arrian, vii. 7; Tacit Ann. vi. 37.)The translators of the LXX. render the HebrewJKWtirnes MccowoTa^ia 2upicu. and sometimesBroplT MxrowoTovxio. In the Bible we have men-two of one ruler who is called a king of Mesopotamia,Cittkim-Ruhathaim, to whom the children of Israel»ere rabject for eight years. (Judg. iii. 8, 10.)Tbr modem Arabic name Al-Jezireh (the island)•Scribes its locality accurately; but the modernpr*bte is much less extensive than the ancient. The whole country (as known at least to the laterwriters) appears to have borne much the same cha­racter as Babylonia, and to have been rich in the•ame products. It was throughout well wooded,e*p:-rially in the neighbourhood of the principal*:reim* ; aiwl some of the timber must have beenof i Urge size, as Trajan built a fleet in the neigh-b-artixi of Ni»ibis during the Parthian War(Dim Cat*, lxviii. 26), and Sererus one in sub-Mqorot times from the woods along the banks ofll* Euphrates. (Dion Cass. lxxv. 9.) Its ex­tensive plains afforded abundant pasturage for cattle(Cart. v. 1. § 12; Amm. Marc. xxv. 8), and itsviler ud less frequented districts were the haunts«f um Bon, the wild ass, and the gazelle. (Strab.*ri. "47; Ammian. xviii. 7.) The same character>t psusses now; though, from the scantiness of thep^alatiorj. and the careless rule of its Turkishtumors, much that was formerly under culti­vation has become a deserted wilderness. Amongit" natural products Strabo mentions especiallyrajliiba, amomum, and a stone called gangitis orf>pu« (perhaps a kind of anthracite coal). (Cf.frW. aJ Nicandr. Thcr. 37; Plin. x. 3. s. 4;Uacord. v. 146.) Though Mesopotamia is for the most part a flatcountry, the ancients reckoned some mountainswhich were along its northern boundary, as be­longing to this division of Asia, These were MonsMasius (now Karja Baghlar), one of the southernoutlying spurs of the great range of the Taurus;and M. Sikgaras (now Sinjar), which may beconsidered as an extension to the S. of the M.Masius. The latter is nearly isolated from themain ranges on the N., and extends on the NE. tothe neighbourhood of the Tigris. The two mostimportant rivers of Mesopotamia are, as we havestated, those which formed its W. and E. boundaries,the Euphrates and Tigris; but besides these, thereare a number of smaller, but not wholly unimportantstreams, which traverse it as affluents of the formerrivers. These were the Chaboras (Khabtir) ; theSaocoras, perhaps the same as that which Xcno-phon calls Mascas (Anab. i. 5. § 4) ; the Hems orBilecha ; and the Mvodokius (Hermes.) Underthe Roman Empire, Mesopotamia was divided intotwo parts, of which the western was called Osrhnene,while the eastern continued to bear its ancientname. It was conquered by Trajan in A. D. 115,who took Singara and Nisibis, and formed thethree Roman provinces of Armenia, Mesopotamia,and Assyria, of which Mesopotamia reached as faras the Persian Gulf. (Dion Cass, lxviii. 22. 23;Eutrop. viii. 3 ; Euseb. p. 165, ed. Scalig.; Malalas,p. 274, ed. Bonn ) But even Trajan could notretain his conquests (Dion Cass, lxviii. 29), andthey were given up by Hadrian of his own accord.(Spartian,Z/aaV.5; Eutrop.viii.6.) Under M.Aure-lius, Mesopotamia was again conquered by L. Verus,as far as the Median Wall (S. Rufus, Brev. 14);and the conquest was further secured by the found­ation of the colonies of Carrhae on the Chaborasand Singara, to which Septimius Severus addedthose of Nisibis and Rhesaena. But this provincewas a constant cause of war between the Persianand Roman empires; and at length the greater partof it was surrendered to the Persians by Jovian inA. d. 363. After this time Mesopotamia containedtwo tirapx'w. Osrhoene, bounded on the south bythe Chaboras, with the capital Edessa; and Meso­potamia, extending as far south as Dura, and havingAmida as its capital. The province was governedby a Praeses. (Marquardt, in Becker's Kornisch.Alterth. vol. iii. pt. i. pp. 204, seq.) The most important cities of this province wereBatnae or Bathsae; Carrhae; Circesh'm;Nisibis or Antiocheia Mygdoniae; and Sin­gara. [V] ME'SPILA (MfWiAa, Xen. Anal. iii. 4. § 10),an ancient deserted city of Assyria, noticed byXenophon on his retreat northwards from Babylonia.He describes it as about 6 parasangs from Lurissaton the same (or left) bank of the Tigris. He men­tions that the town had been inhabited by theMedes, and that its walls were of immense size, thefoundations being of polished Bhellv limestone, 50feet in breadth and height; and the part above,made of brick, being 100 feet high and 50 broad.The circumference of the whole work he states tohave been 6 parasangs. He mentions, as a report,that on the Medians being conquered by the Persians,the queen, who was a Median, fled to this place;and that, when subsequently the place was besiegedby the Persians, they would have been unable totake it, had not Zeus aided them with his lightning.I There can be little doubt that Mcspila is represented