OCR Output 154 LIVY. arms behind. By this battle the power of the Etru­rians was, a second time, effectually crushed, so that,engaging to furnish a year's pay, and corn for twomonths, with the dictator's permission, they sent am­bassadors to Rome to treat of peace. This was refused,but a truce for two years was granted to them. Thedictator returned into the city in triumph. I haveseen it asserted that tranquillity was restored intoEtruria by the dictator, without any memorable battle,only by composing the dissensions of the Arretians,and effecting a reconciliation between the Cilnian fa­mily and the commons. Marcus Valerius was electedconsul, before the expiration of his dictatorship, manyhave believed, without his soliciting the office, andeven while he was absent; and that the election washeld by an interrex. In one point all agree, that beheld the consulship with Quintus Appuleius Pansa. 6. During this consulate of Marcus Valerius andQuintus Appuleius affairs abroad wore a very peace­able aspect. Their losses sustained in war, togetherwith the truce, kept the Etrurians quiet. The Sam-nites, depressed by the misfortunes of many years,had not yet become dissatisfied with their new alliance.At Rome also, the carrying away of such multitudesto colonies rendered the commons tranquil, and light­ened their burdens. But, that all things might notstagnate in a dead calm, a contention was excited be­tween the principal persons in the commonwealth, pa­tricians on one hand, and plebeians on the other, bythe two Ogulnii, Quintus and Cneius, plebeian tri­bunes, who seeking every where occasions of crimi­nating the patricians in the hearing of the people, andhaving found other attempts fruitless, engaged in ascheme calculated to inflame, not the lowest class ofthe commons, but their chief men, the plebeians ofconsular and triumphal rank, to the completion ofwhose honors nothing was now wanting but the officesof the priesthood, which were not yet laid open tothem. [A.U.C. 452. B.C. 300.] They therefore pub­lished a proposal for a law, that, whereas there were