OCR Output 36 GILDING. from the first, the complete metallic state.3 This is found native,while the others, which I shall presently describe, are, as it were,compelled to become metals. It is more especially free from theliability to rust or corrode, or to any change, which may eitherinjure its purity or diminish its weight. It is proof both againstsalt and vinegar, bodies which act the most powerfully on varioussubstances; and what is a still more remarkable property, it maybe spun or woven like wool, without any wool being mixed with it.We are informed by Verrius, that Tarquinius Priscus rode in tri­umph in a tunic of gold; and we have seen Agrippina, the wife ofthe Emperor Claudius, when he exhibited the spectacle of a navalcombat, sitting by him covered with a robe, made entirely of wovengold, without any other material. In what are called the Attalicstuffs, the gold is woven with some other substance. This art wasthe invention of one of the kings of Asia. 20. THE METHOD OF GILDING. Marble, and those substances which cannot be made red hot,4are gilt by first smearing them with the white of egg; on wood, akind of glue is applied, which is called Leucophoron: what thissubstance is, and in what manner it acts, I shall explain in theproper place.5 It used to be prescribed by law in gilding copper,to employ either native quicksilver, or that which is reduced fromthe ore; but respecting these, as I shall mention when I give anaccount of their nature, frauds have been devised. The copper isin the first place very much hammered, and is plunged, while hot,into a mixture of salt, vinegar, and alum. After it has beenscowered with sand, they judge, by its brightness, whether it hasbeen sufficiently acted on; when, if necessary, it is again subjectedto the furnace, and afterwards has thin leaves of gold attached toit, by means of a mixture of pumice, alum, and quicksilver. Alumhas the same effect as lead in purifying gold.6 3 It was probably this native gold which Aristotle calls " xpva0v awvpov,"as not requiring the aid of fire for its reduction; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 45. 4 "Candefieri;" literally made white; we may consider the term as im­plying a high temperature generally. 5 Lib. xxxv. sec. 17. B For an ample account of the process of gilding see the art. "Gilding"in Aikins' Diet, which will materially illustrate the account in the .text.