OCR Output 3U [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. five thousand five hundred and twenty-five.And the governors of all the multitude, thusnumbered, were Zorobabel, the son of Sala-thiel, of the posterity of David, and of thetribe of Judah and Jeshua, the son of Josedek,the high-priest. And besides these, therewere Mordecai and Serebeus, who were dis­tinguished from the multitude, and were ru­lers: who also contributed a hundred poundsof gold and five thousand of silver. By thismeans therefore the priests, and the Levites,and a certain part of the people of the Jewsthat were in Babylon came and dwelt in Je­rusalem: but the rest of the multitude re­turned to their own countries. CHAP. IV. UT THE REBUILDING OF THE TEMPLE, AND THE FRUITLESSATTEMPT OF THE CUTHEANS TO OBSTRUCT THE WORK. IN the seventh month, after they were de­parted out of Babylon, both Jeshua thehigh-priest, and Zorobabel, the governor, sentmessengers every way round about, and ga­thered those that were in the country togetherto Jerusalem.* They then built the altar, onthe place where it formerly stood; that theymight offer the appointed sacrifices upon it toGod, according to the laws of Moses. Butwhile they did this, they did not please theneighbouring nations: who regarded themwith envy and ill will. They also celebratedthe feasts of tabernacles at that time, as thelegislator had ordained: and after that theyoffered sacrifices, and what were called thedaily sacrifices, and the oblations proper forthe sabbath, and for all the holy festivals.Those also that had made vows performedthem; and offered their sacrifices, from thefirst day of the seventh month. They alsobegan to build the temple, and gave a greatsum of money to the masons and carpenters;and what was necessary for the maintenanceof the workmen. The Sidonians also werevery willing to bring cedar trees from Liba-nus, to bind them together, and to make aunited float of them, and to bring them to theport of Joppa. For that was what Cyrus hadcommanded at first; and what was now doneat the command of Darius. * Ezra iii. 1.t An. 519. In the second yearf of their Coming to Je­rusalem, as the Jews were there, in the secondmonth, the building of the temple went onapace. And when they had laid the founda­tion, on the first day of the second month, ofthat year, they appointed as overseers of thework, such Levites as were full twenty yearsold, and Jeshua, and his sons and brethren,and Cadmiel, the brother of Judas, the sonof Aminadab, with his sons. And by the greatdiligence of those that had the care of it, thetemple was finished sooner than any onewould have expected. The priests, then,adorned with their accustomed garments,stood with their trumpets: while the Levites,and the sons of Asaph, stood, and sang hymnsto God, according as David had first of allappointed. Now the priests, and Levites,and the elder part of the families, recollect­ing how much greater and more sumptuousthe old temple had been; and contrasting itwith the inferiority of the new one, they con­sidered with themselves how much their hap­py state was sunk below what it had been ofold, as well as their temple. Hereupon theywere very disconsolate, and proceeded so faras to lament and shed tears on those accounts.But the people in general were contentedwith their present condition; and becausethey were allowed to build them a temple,they desired no more; and neither regarded,nor indeed at all tormented themselves withthe comparison of that and the former tem­ple; as if this were below their expectations.But the wailing of the old men, and of thepriests on account of the deficiency of thistemple, in their opinion, if compared withthat which had been demolished, overcamethe sounds of trumpets, and the rejoicing ofthe people.J When the Samaritans, who were still ene­mies to the tribe of Judah and Benjamin,heard the sound of the trumpets, they camerunning together, and desired to know whatwas the occasion of this tumult? and whenthey perceived that it was from the Jews, whohad been carried captive to Babylon, andwere rebuilding their temple; they came toZorobabel, and to Jeshua, and to the headsof the families, and desired they would give , I Ezra iii. 13.