OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN TAKES GADARA. 125 men. This embassy the opposite party knew nothing of, butdiscovered it as Vespasian was approaching near the city.However, they despaired of keeping possession of the city,as being inferior in number to their enemies which werewithin the city, and seeing the Romans very near to the city ;so they resolved to fly, but thought it dishonorable to do itwithout shedding some blood, and revenging themselves onthe authors of this surrender; so they seized upon Dolesus(a person not only the first in rank and family in that city,but one that seemed the occasion of sending such an embassy,)and slew him, and treated his dead body after a barbarousmanner, so very violent was their anger at him, and then ranout of the city. And as now the Roman army was just uponthem, the people of Gadara admitted Vespasian with joyfulacclamations, and received from him the security of his righthand; as also a garrison of horsemen and footmen, to guardthem against the excursions of the runagates; for as to theirwall, they had pulled it down before the Romans desired thembo to do, that they might thereby give them assurance thatthey were lovers of peace, and that, if they had a mind, theycould not now make war against them. 4. And now Vespasian sent Placidus against those thathad fled from Gadara, with five hundred horsemen and threethousand footmen, while he returned himself to Csesarea withthe rest of the army. But as soon as these fugitives sawthe horsemen that pursued them just upon their backs, andbefore they came to a close fight, they ran together to acertain village which was called Bethennabris, where findinga great multitude of young men, and arming them, partly bytheir own consent, partly by force, they rashly and suddenlyassaulted Placidus and the troops that were with him. Thesehorsemen at the first onset gave way a little, as contriving toentice them farther off the wall; and when they had drawnthem into a place fit for their purpose, they made their horseencompass them round, and threw their darts at them. Sothe horsemen cut off the flight of the fugitives, while the footterribly destroyed those that fought against them; for thoseJews did no more than show their courage, and then were 11*