OCR Output CHAP. LI. 445 but Alaric would have blushed at the sight of his un足worthy successor, sustaining on his head a diadem ofpearls, encumbered with a flowing robe of gold and silkenembroidery, and reclining on a litter, or car of ivory,drawn by two white mules. Notwithstanding the va足lour of the Saracens, they fainted under the weight ofmultitudes, and the plain of Xeres was overspread withsixteen thousand of their dead bodies. "My brethren(said Tarik to his surviving companions), the enemy isbefore you, the sea is behind; whither would ye fly?Follow your general; I am resolved either to lose mylife, or to trample on the prostrate king of the Romans."Besides the resource of despair, he confided in thesecret correspondence and nocturnal interviews of countJulian, with the sons and the brother of Witiza. The twoprinces and the archbishop of Toledo occupied the mostimportant post: their well-timed defection broke theranks of the Christians; each warrior was prompted byfear or suspicion to consult his personal safety; and theremains of the Gothic army were scattered or destroyedin the flight and pursuit of the three following days.Amidst the general disorder, Roderic started from hiscar, and mounted Orelia, the fleetest of his horses;but he escaped from a soldier's death to perish moreignobly in the waters of the Boetis or Guadalquivir. Hisdiadem, his robes, and his courser, were found on thebank; but as the body of the Gothic prince was lost inthe waves, the pride and ignorance of the caliph musthave been gratified with some meaner head, which wasexposed in triumph before the palace of Damascus."And such (continues a valiant historian of the Arabs) isthe fate of those kings who withdraw themselves from afield of battle."11 P Id sane infortunii icgibus pedem ex acie referentibus sape contingit. Ben Hazilof Grenada, in Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 327. Some credulous Spa足niards believe that king Roderic, or Koderigo, escaped to a hermit's cell; andothers that he was cast alive into a tub full of serpents, from whence he ex足claimed with a lamentable voice, "They devour the part with which I have sogrievously sinned." (Don Quixote, pan 2. lib. y. c. If)