OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a#? quences, turned away with indignant contempt, from the remon­strances of justice and policy, and it was the practice to signify by a thollow murmur, their dislike of such timid councils. But whenevera more popular orator proposed to vindicate the meanest citizen, fromeither foreign or domestic injury, whenever the called upon his fel­low-countrymen to assert the national honour, or to pursue someenterprise full of danger and glory, a loud clashing of shields andspears expressed the eager applause of the assembly. For the Ger­mans always met in arms, and it was constantly to be dreaded, lestan irregular multitude, inflamed with faction and strong liquors,should use those arms to enforce, as well as to declare their furiousresolves. We may recollect how often the diets of Poland havebeen polluted with blood, and the more numerous party has beencompelled to yield to the more violent and seditious *6. A general of the tribe was elected on occasions of danger; and, if ^'princetandthe danger was pressing and extensive, several tribes concurred in magistratesthe choice of the fame general. The bravest warrior was namedto lead his countrymen into the field, by his example rather than byhis commands. But this power, however limited, was still invi­dious. It expired with the war, and in time of peace, the Germantribes acknowledged not any supreme chief+7. Princes were, how­ever, appointed* in the general assembly, to administer justice,or rather to compose differences 48, in their respective districts.In the choice of these magistrates, as much regard was shewn tobirth as to merit *9. To each was given, by the public, a guard',and a council of an hundred persons; and the first of the princesappears to have enjoyed a pre-eminence of rank and honour whichsometimes tempted the Romans to compliment him with the regaltitle 5°. The comparative view of the powers of the magistrates, in two more absolute over the pro-remarkable instances, is alone sufficient to represent the - whole perty than mi -r r t- over the per- system of German manners. The disposal of the landed property son. of the . , . Germans. within