OCR Output SG4. , TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. with the Volsd was unavoidable, which was also confirm­ed by dispatches from the Latins and Hernici, importing,that never upon any former occasion had the Volsci ap­peared more in earnest, either with respect to the choiceof their generals, or expediting their levies; declaring-upon all occasions, that they must now bid adieu to armsand war for ever, and tamely submit to the yoke of ser­vitude, or no longer shew themselves inferior to those,with whom' they contended for sovereignty, in personalbravery, patience under hardships, and military disci­pline. These accounts were far from being groundless, thoughthey seemed to make no great impression on thefathers;and C. Sempronius, who by lot had the command in thatwar, trusting entirely to fortune, as a thing incapable ofchange, especially as he led a victorious army against a'conquered enemy, performed all the duties of his office,without caution or care; insomuch that there was more ofthe Roman discipline to be found in the Volscian armythan in their own. For which reason, fortune, as it hasoften happened before, shifted to that side where meritwas most conspicuous. In the first engagement, which Sempronius .hazardedwithout the Ieast precaution or consideration, havingformed no corps-de-reserve, and made a very injudiciousdisposition of his horse before the action, the shouts gavethe first intimation of the turn matters were like to take:these raised by the enemy were brisker and more con­stant ; whilst on the side of the Romans, they were con­fused, unequal, faint, and often repeated, and by theirdiscord, expressive of the fear which had taken possessionwithin. Encouraged by this, the enemy advanced withredoubled fury, pressed hard upon them with their shields,and plied them with their brandished swords On- theother side, the soldiers siood staring about them, theirhelmets nodding on their heaJs, and being totally at a- loss how to act, ran trembling together in crowds. Thecolours sometimes standing still were abandoned bythe front ranks; at other times they were moved back,and planted among their own squadrons. As yet'theyhad not resolved to fly, nor were the enemyabsolutelycertain of victory. The Romans however, "acted rather