OCR Output Chap. VIII. WARS of f HE JEWS. 8. But for those that are caught in any heinous sins, they castthem out of their society, and he who is thus separated fromthem, does often die after a miserable manner; for as he isbound by the oath he hath taken, and by the customs he hathbeen engaged in, he is not at liberty to partake of that food thathe meets with elsewhere, but is forced to eat grass, and to fa足mish his body with hunger, till he perish; for which reason theyreceive many of them again, when they are at their last gasp>out of compassion to them, as thinking the miseries they haveendured till they came to the very brink of death, to be a suf足ficient punishment for the sins they had been guilty of. 9. But in the judgments they exercise they are most accurateand just, nor do they pass sentence by the votes of acourt that isfewer than an hundred. And as to what is once determined bythat number, it is unalterable. What they most of all honour,after God himself, is the name of their legislator [Moses], whom'if any one blaspheme, he is punished capitally. They also thinkit a good thing to obey their elders, and the major part. Ac*cordingly, if ten of them be sitting together, no one of them willspeak while the other nine are against it. They also avoidspitting in the midst of them, or on the right side. Moreover,they are stricter than any other of the Jews in restmg fromtheir labours on the seventh day; for they not only get theirfood ready the day before, that they may not be obliged tokindle a fire on that day, but they will not remove any vesselout of its place, nor go to stool thereon. Nay, on other daysthey dig a small pit, a foot deep, with a paddle, (which kind ofhatchet is given them, when they are first admitted amongthem), and covering themselves round with their garment, thatthey may not affront the divine rays ef light, they ease them-selves into that pit, after which they put the earth that wasdug out again into the pit; and even this they do only in themore lonely places, which they choose out for this purpose;and although this easement of the body be natural, yet it is arule with them to wash themselves after it, as if it were a de足filement to them. 10. Now after the time of their preparatory trial is over,they are parted into four classes; and so far are the juniors in足ferior to the seniors, that if the seniors should be touched by thejuniors, they must wash themselves, as if they had intermixedthemselves with the company of a foreigner. They are long-lived also, insomuch that many of them live above an hundredyears, by means of the simplicity of their diet, nay, as 1 think,by means of the regular course of life they observe also. Theycontemn the miseries of life, ai}d are above pain, by thegenero- Vot. III. 3 B sity