OCR Output 38 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. having not yet discovered the defeat of their right, theyslaughtered through ignorance their own friends. For thenumber of ships being large on either side, and covering awide extent of sea, after the first confusion of the engage­ment they were not able easily to distinguish which werethe victors or which the vanquished: Since Greciansagainst Grecians had never at any time before engagedat sea with so large a number of vessels. But after the Co­rinthians had pursued the Corcyreans to land, they returnedto look after their shattered vessels and their own dead. Andmost of these they took up and carried to Sybota, where alsolay the land force of their Barbarian auxiliaries: This Sy­bota is a desert haven in Thesprotis. Having performed thisduty, they gathered together again into a body and went inquest of the Corcyreans, who, with those- damaged vesselsthat yet could swim, and with all that had no damage, toge­ther with the Athenians, came out to meet them, fearinglest they might attempt to land upon their shore. It wasnow late in the day, and they had sung their pcean as goingto attack, when on a suden the Corinthians slackened*their course, having descried a reinforcement of twenty sailcoming up from Athens. This second squadron the Athe­nians had sent away to support the former ten, fearing (whatreally happened) lest the Corcyreans might be vanquished,and their own ten ships be too few for their support. TheCorinthians, therefore, having got a view of them, and sus­pecting they came from Athens, and in a larger numberthan they yet discovered, began gradually to fall away.They were not yet descried by the Corcyreans (for the coursekept them more out of their ken) who were surprized to seethe Corinthians thus slacken their course, till some, who hadgained a view, informed them that such ships are coming • The original is trpifittit Upttotlt, they knocked the hind-deet, a phraseelegantly applied by Thucydides to those that retreat fighting, and stillfacing their enemies. It was done by running their ships backwards upontheir hind decks in order to tack about. See Potttt't Architolagia, vol. ii. c. 20.