OCR Output AN. 44.] 509 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. enemies, instead of rulers. For that theywould never suffer him to be set aside, whomthey had appointed to govern. And whenAntipater had said this to them, he settledthe affairs of this country. And seeing that Hyrcanus was of a slowand slothful temper, he made Phasaelus, hiseldest son, governor of Jerusalem, and of theplaces adjacent; but committed Galilee toHerod, his next son, who was then *fifteenyears of age. That youth of his, however,was no impediment to him: but as he pos­sessed a great mind, he presently met with anopportunity of signalizing his courage. Forfinding that there was one Hezekias, a cap­tain of a band of robbers, who overran theneighbouring parts of Syria, he seized andslew him; as well as a great number of therobbers that were with him. By this actionhe acquired the love of the Syrians: for whenthey were very desirous to have their countryfreed from this nest of robbers, he purged itof them. So they sang songs in his commen­dation in their villages and cities, as havingprocured them peace, and the secure enjoy­ment of their possessions. And on this ac­count it was that he became known to SextusCaesar, who was the relation of the greatCaesar's, and was now president of Syria. Now Phasaelus, Herod's brother, wasmoved with emulation at his actions; andenvied the fame he had acquired, and becameambitious not to be behind-hand with him indeserving it. So he made the inhabitants of Jerusalem bear him the greatest good will;while he held the city himself, but did neithermanage its affairs improperly nor abuse hisauthority therein. This conduct procuredfrom the nation of Antipater such respect asis due to kings; and such honours as he mightpartake of if he were absolute lord of thecountry. Yet did not this splendour of his, asfrequently happens, in the least diminish inhim that kindness and fidelity which he owedto Hyrcanus. But now, the principal men among theJews, when they saw Antipater and his sonsto grow so much in the good will of the na­tion, and in the revenues which they receivedout of Judea, and out of Hyrcanus's ownwealth; became ill disposed to him. For in­deed Antipater had contracted a friendshipwith the Roman emperors: and when he hadprevailed with Hyrcanus to send them money,he took it to himself, and purloined the pre­sent intended; and sent it, as if it were hisown, and not Hyrcanus's gift to them. Hyr­canus heard of this management, but took nocare about it: nay he was rather glad of it.But the chief men of the Jews were in fearbecause they saw that Herod was a violentand bold man, and very desirous of actingtyrannically. So they came to Hyrcanus, andaccused Antipater openly, and said to him,"How long wilt thou be quiet under suchactions as are now done? Or dost thou notsee that Antipater and his sons have alreadyseized upon the government, and that it is * Take Reland's and Hudson's notes on this celebratedplace. "Isaac Casaubon, in his Epistle to Thuanus,which is the 936th in number, affirms, that instead of isor 15, we should read xs or 25, where he thus writes:"We affirm, and most evidently demonstrate, that thereading ought to be xs 25. Nor are we to be dissuadedby the consent of the copies, nor the assent of Photius tothem. He had said just before, that this place is of greatconsequence for the discovery of the chronology of ourSaviour." So for Reland. To which Hudson adds,"Since I have never allowed myself the liberty to changeany numbers, without the authority of MSS. neither haveI here set down xe 25, for is 15, which yet many verylearned men have asserted ought to be done; who arecited by Casaubon in Exercit. contr. Baron. § 34. andwith whom Casaubon himself agrees in Epist. 299. as alsoMontacutius, in Exercit. 10. page 34. and in Apparatu, J>age 194. Lydiat. in Emendet. Temp, page 114. andKep-er, De Ann. Nat. Christi. page 52. Nay indeed, that itought to be so read some have demonstrated: as Usher,in Annal. Vet. Test, page 252. Edit. Lond. & Norris inCenotaphiis Pisanis. Disert. II. c. 6. page 160. The verylearned Antonius Pagi giving his assent to them, in Appa- rat. ad Annal. Baron, page 12. which arguments induce usto have no regard to Pere Harduin: who (in his book DeNummis Herodiadum, page 334. Edit. Amst.) takes occa­sion from the slip of the pen of the scribes to fall upon Jo-sephus himself. And as for his defence from the words,"When Herod was very young," all those who will com­pare with him Is. Casaubon, and Antonius Pagi in theplaces already cited, will see how indifferently he does it."See the notes here on I. 12. and Of the War, I. 10. Toall which I shall venture to add, that those who will care­fully observe the several occasional numbers and chrono­logical characters in the life and death of this Herod, andof his children hereafter noted, will see that 25 years, andnot 15, must certainly have been here Josephus's ownnumber, for the age of Herod, when he was made governorof Galilee; and will not need to consult any of thoselearned men for his satisfaction. See chap. 23 and 24. andparticularly XVII. 8. where about 44 years afterwardHerod dies an old man, at about seventy. Also XVI. 8,10, and 11. Of the War, I. 30. where Herod is old, andgrey headed, and XVII. 4. where even his son Antipateiis growing old in Herod's lifetime. 4L2