OCR Output Chmp. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 373 procedure on the other were materially restricted, inasmuchas processes of high treason for instance were withdrawnfrom the former, and the more serious falsifications and in­juries from the latter; but apart from this there was nochange in either institution. Secondly, as respects the pre­sidency of the courts, six praetors, as we have already men­tioned, were now available for the superintendence of thedifferent jury-courts, besides whom special directors werenamed for particular tribunals. Thirdly, the senators wereonce more installed in the office of jurymen in room of theGracchan equites: in the spear-court alone, so far as weknow, the previous arrangement continued to subsist. The political aim of these enactments—to put- an end tothe share which the equites had hitherto had in the govern­ment—is clear as day; but it as little admits of doubt, thatthese were not mere measures of a political tendency, butthat they formed the first attempt to amend the Romancriminal procedure and criminal law, which had since thestruggle between the orders fallen more and more into con­fusion. From this Sullan legislation dates the distinction—substantially unknown to the earlier law—between civil andcriminal causes, in the sense which we now attach to theseexpressions; henceforth a criminal cause appears as thatwhich comes before a bench of jurymen, a civil cause as thatwhich comes before the individual judex. The whole body ofthe Sullan ordinances as to the Qiuestiones may be characterizedat once as the first Roman code after the Twelve Tables, andas the first criminal code specially issued at all. But in thedetails also there appears a laudable and liberal spirit.Singular as it may sound regarding the author of the proscrip­tions, it remains nevertheless true, that he abolished thepunishment of death for political offences; for, as accordingto the Roman custom which Sulla retained unchanged thepeople only, and not the jury-commission could sentence toforfeiture of life or to imprisonment (P. 112), the trans­ference of processes of high treason from the burgesses to astanding commission amounted to the abolition of capitalpunishment for such offences. On the other hand, the restric­tion of the pernicious special commissions for particular casesof high treason, of which the Varian commission (P. 236) inthe Social war had been a specimen, likewise involved an im­provement. The whole reform was of singular and lastingbenefit, and a permanent monument of the practical, mode- '