OCR Output 448 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. poetry itself hardly improved. We now meet with thenational tragedy (prcetexta), the creation of Naevius, onlyin the hands of Pacuvius to be mentioned immediately—anafter-growth of the Ennian epoch. Among the probablynumerous poets who imitated Greek tragedies two alonePacuvius. acquired distinction. Marcus Pacuvius from Brundisium219-129. (535—c. 625) who in his earlier years earned his livelihoodin Rome by painting aud only composed tragedies whenadvanced in life, belongs as respects both his years and hisstyle to the sixth rather than the seventh century, althoughhis poetical activity falls within the latter. He composed onthe whole after the manner of his countryman, uncle, andmaster Ennius. Polishing more carefully and aspiring toa higher strain than his predecessor, he was regarded byfavourable critics of art afterwards as a model of artisticpoetry and of rich style: in the fragments, however, thatnave reached us proofs are not wanting to justify Cicero'scensure of the poet's language and Lucilius' censure of histaste; his language appears more rugged than that of hispredecessor, his style of composition pompous and punc­tilious.* There are traces that he like Ennius attachedmore value to philosophy than to religion; but he did notat any rate, like the latter, prefer dramas chiming in withneological views and preaching sensual passion or modernenlightenment, and drew without distinction from Sophoclesor from Euripides; of that poetry with a decided special aim,which almost stamps Ennius with genius, there can havebeen no vein in the younger poet. * Thus, in the Paulas, an original piece, the following line occurred, pro­bably in the description of the pass of Pythium (ii. 300) :— Qua vie caprigeno generi gradilis gressio est. . And in another piece the hearers are expected to understand the following description— Quadrupes tardigrada agrestis humilis aspera,Capite brevi, cervice am/ulna, aspect* truci,Eviscerata inanima cum animali sono. To which they naturally reply— Ita sceptuosa dictione abs te datur,Quod conjectura sapiens cegre contuit;A'on inteUegimus, nisi si aperte dixeris. Then follows the confession that the tortoise is referred to. Such enigmas,moreover, were not wanting even among the Attic tragedians, who on thataccount were olten and sharply taken to task by the Middle Comedy.