OCR Output 288 THE EAST AND KING MITHKADATES. [Book IT. First con- arrived m the region of the Euphrates, in whose waters thetact be- Roman standards were then for the first time reflected, thetween the ]jomans came for the first time into contact with the Par-the Par- thians, who in consequence of the variance between themthians. and Tigranes had occasion to make approaches to the Romans.On both sides there seemed a feeling that it was of somemoment, in this first contact between the two great powersof the East and the West, that neither should renounce itsclaims to the sovereignty of the world; but Sulla, bolder thanthe Parthian envoy, assumed and maintained in the confer足ence the place of honour between the king of Cappadocia andthe Parthian ambassador. Sulla's fame was more increasedby this greatly celebrated conference on the Euphrates thanby his victories in the East; the Parthian envoy afterwardsforfeited his life to his master's resentment. But for themoment this contact had no further result. The otherdecrees of the senate against Mithradates were carried intoeffect, Paphlagonia was evacuated, the restoration of theScythian chieftains was at least promised by Mithradates;92. the earlier status quo in the East seemed to be restored (662).New ag- So it was alleged; but in fact there was little trace of any giessions of real return of the former order of things. Scarce bad SullaMithrada- j^ ^sia, wnen Tigranes king of Great Armenia fell uponAriobarzanes the new king of Cappadocia, expelled him, andreinstated.in his stead the Pontic pretender Ariarathes. InBithynia, where after the death of the old king Nicoraedes91. II. (about 663) his son Nicomedes III. Philopator had beenrecognized by the people and by the Roman senate as legiti足mate king, his younger brother Socrates came forward aspretender to the crown and possessed himself of the sove足reignty. It was clear that the real author of the Cappado-cian as of the Bithynian troubles was no other than Mithra足dates, although he refrained from taking any official part.Every one knew that Tigranes only acted at his beck; butSocrates also had marched into Bithynia with Pontic troops,and the legitimate king's life was threatened by the assassinsof Mithradates. In Paphlagonia the native princes maintainedthemselves in the interior, but Mithradates commanded thewhole coast as far as the Bithynian frontier, having eitherreoccupied these districts by way of supporting Socrates, orhaving never really evacuated them. In the Crimea evenand the neighbouring countries the Pontic king had nothought of receding, but on the contrary carried his armsfurther and further.