OCR Output <&> T&E DECLINE AND FALL luxury and pride offended the patricians, exhausted the revenue, and insulted themisery of the people. Anna is a faithful witness that his happiness was destroyed,and his health was broken, by the cares of a public life: the patience of Constan­tinople was fatigued by the length and severity of his reign; and before Alexiusexpired, he had lost the love and reverence of his subjects. The clergy could notforgive his application of the sacred riches to the defence of the state; but theyapplauded his theological learning and ardent zeal for the orthodox faith, whichhe defended with his tongue, his pen, and his sword. His character was degradedby the superstition of the Greeks; and the same inconsistent principle of humannature enjoined the emperor to found a hospital for the poor and infirm, and todirect the execution of a heretic, who was burnt alive in the square of St. Sophia.Even the sincerity of his moral and religious virtues was suspected by the personswho had passed their lives in his familiar confidence. In his last hours, when he waspressed by his wife Irene to alter the succession, he raised his head, and breatheda pious ejaculation on the vanity of this world. The indignant reply of the em­press may be ascribed as an epitaph on his tomb, You die as you have lived—ahypocrite! It was the wish of Irene to supplant the eldest of her surviving sons, in favourof her daughter, the princess Anna, whose philosophy would not have refused theweight of a diadem. But the order of male succession was asserted by the friendsof their country; the lawful heir drew the royal signet from the finger of his in­sensible or conscious father, and the empire obeyed the master of the palace. An­na Comnena was stimulated by ambition and revenge to conspire against the lifeof her brother; and when the design was prevented by the fears or scruples of herhusband, she passionately exclaimed, that nature had mistaken the two sexes, andhad endowed Bryennius with the soul of a woman. The two sons of Alexius,John and Isaac, maintained the fraternal concord, the hereditary virtue of theirrace; and the younger brother was content with the title of Sebastocr.ator, whichapproached the dignity, without sharing the power of the emperor. In the sameperson, the claims of primogeniture and merit were fortunately united; his swar­thy complexion, harsh features, and diminutive stature, had suggested the ironi­cal surname of Calo-Johannis, or John the Handsome, which his grateful subjectsmore seriously applied to the beauties of his mind. After the discovery of hertreason, the life and fortune of Anna were justly forfeited to the laws. Her lifewas spared by the clemency of the emperor; but he visited the pomp and treasuresof her palace, and bestowed the rich confiscation on the most deserving of hisfriends. That respectable friend, Axuch, a slave of Turkish extraction, presumedto decline the gift, and to intercede for the criminal; his generous master applaud­ed and imitated the virtue of his favourite, and the reproach or complaint of aninjured brother was the only chastisement of the guilty princess. After this ex­ample of clemency, the remainder of his reign was never disturbed by conspiracyor rebellion; feared by his nobles, beloved by his people, John was never reducedto the painful necessity of punishing, or even pardoning his personal enemies.During his government of twenty-five years, the penalty of death was abolishedin the Roman empire, a law of mercy most delightful to the human theorist, butof which the practice in a large and vicious community, is seldom consistent withthe public safety. Severe to himself, indulgent to others, chaste, frugal, abste-,mious, the philosophic Marcus would have disdained the artless virtues of his suc­cessor, derived from his heart, and not borrowed from the schools. He despisedand moderated the stately magnificence of the Byzantine court, so oppressive tothe people, so contemptible to the eye of reason. Under such a prince, innocencehad nothing to fear, and merit had every thing to hope; and without assuming thetyrannic office of a censor, he introduced a gradual though visible reformation inthe public and private manners of Constantinople. The only defect of this ac­complished character, was the frailty of noble minds—the love of arms and mili­tary glory. Yet the frequent expeditions of John the Handsome may be justified,at least in their principle, bv the necessity of repelling the Turks from the Helles­pont and the Bosphorus. The sultan of Iconhim was confined to his capital, thebarbarians were driven to the mountains, and the maritime provinces of Asia en­joyed the transient blessings of their deliverance. From Constantinople to Antiochand Aleppo, he repeatedly marched at the head of a victorious army, and in thesieges and battles of this holy war, his Latin allies were astonished by the superiorspirit and prowess of a Greek. As he began to indulge the. ambitious hope of re­storing the ancient limits of the empire, as he revolved in his mind, the Euphra-