OCR Output A.D. 16.1 103 OF TACITUS. leaving his fame behind him, or flying before it, toprepossess the people in some new quarter. XL. The miraculous escape of Agrippa was cur­rently reported all over Italy. At Rome the storywas believed. The impostor landed at Ostia, amidstthe acclamations of the rabble. Clandestine meet­ings were held in the capital. Tiberius was throwninto the utmost perplexity. Should he call forth hissoldiers to subdue a slave? Were it not more ad­visable to leave the rumour to its own futility ? On asudden he was bent on vigorous measures, and no­thing was to be slighted: he wavered, fluctuated, andto act with coolness seemed more advisable; to bealarmed at trifles was unworthy of the prince. Theresolution of one moment gave way to the whim ofthe next, and pride and fear alternately distractedhim. He resolved, and decided nothing. Weary ofhimself, he left the whole to Salluslius Crispius.That minister sent two of his creatures (some say,two soldiers) to join the fictitious Agrippa, as men de­voted to his cause: he gave them full instructions tosupply him with money, and profess thomselves ready• in his'service, to encounter every danger. The menacted their parts; and, in the dead of night, seizingtheir opportunity, fell with a strong party upon theadventurer. Having seized his person, they draggedhim in fetters, with a gag in his mouth, to the impe­rial palace. Being there interrogated by Tiberius," how he came to be Agrippa," he is said to have an­swered, " as you came to be Csesar." With undaunt­ed resolution he refused to discover his accomplices.Tiberius, not choosing to hazard a public execution,ordered him to be put to death in a sequestered partof the palace. The body was privately conveyedaway; and though at the time there was reason tobelieve that many of the emperor's household, andeven several of the Roman knights and senators, as­sisted the impostor with their advice and money, th»affair was dropt without further inquiry. XLI. Towards the end of the year, a triumphalarch was erected, near the Temple of Saturn, in me­mory of the Varian eagles retaken under the conduct