OCR Output aN. 1532.] 91 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and on the back part of it remained the west.It was necessary that its height should beequal to its breadth, ten cubits. There werealso pillars made of wood, twenty on eachside; they were wrought into a quadrangularfigure, in breadth a cubit and a half, but thethickness was four fingers: they had thinplates of gold affixed to them, on both sides,inwardly and outwardly: they had also eachof them, two silver tenons, inserted into theirbases; in each of which was a socket to re­ceive the tenon. But the pillars on the west­ern wall were six. Now all these tenons andsockets accurately fitted one another, inso­much that the joints were invisible; and bothseemed to be one united wall: it was alsocovered with gold, both within and without.The number of pillars was equal on the op­posite sides, and there were on each parttwenty; and every one had the third part ofa span in thickness: so that the number ofthirty cubits were fully made up betweenthem. But as to the wall behind, where thesix pillars made up together only nine cubits,they made two other pillars, and cut them outof one cubit, which they placed in the cor­ners, and made them equally fine with theothers. Now every one of the pillars hadrings of gold affixed to their fronts outward,as if they had taken root in the pillars, andstood one row over against another roundabout; through which were inserted gildedbars, each of them five cubits long, and thesebound together the pillars; the head of onebar running into another, after the nature ofone tenon inserted into another. But for thewall behind, there was but one row of barsthat went through all the pillars: into whichrow ran the ends of the bars on each side ofthe longer walls; and all joined so fast toge­ther, that the tabernacle could not be shaken,either by the winds, or by any other means;but remained firm, quiet, and immoveable. As for the inside, Moses divided its lengthinto three partitions. At the distance oftencubits from the most sacred end, he placedfour pillars; whose workmanship was thegame with that of the rest, and they stoodupon the like bases with them; each at asmall distance from his fellow. Now the roomwithin those pillars was the most holy place:but the rest of the room was the tabernacle,which was open for the priests. However this VOL. I.—NO. e. proportion of the measures of the tabernacleproved to be an imitation of the system of theworld; for that third part which was withinthe four pillars, to which the priests were notadmitted, is, as it were, a heaven, peculiar toGod; but the space of the twenty cubits, is,as it were, sea and land, on which men live:and so this part is peculiar to the priests only.At the front, where the entrance was made,they placed seven pillars of gold, that stoodon bases of brass; and they spread over thetabernacle veils of fine linen, and purple, andblue, and scarlet colours, embroidered. Thefirst veil was ten cubits every way; and thiswas spread over the pillars which parted thetemple, and kept the most holy place con­cealed within: and this veil was that whichmade this part not visible to any. Now thewhole temple was called the Holy Place; butthat part which was within the four pillars,and to which none were admitted, was calledthe Holy of Holies. This veil was very orna­mental, and embroidered with all sorts of fineflowers; and there were interwoven into it avariety of ornaments, excepting only the formsof animals. Another veil, which covered thefive pillars at the entrance, was like the for­mer in its magnitude, texture, and colour;and at the corner of every pillar a ring re­tained it from the top downwards, half thedepth of the pillars; the other half affordingan entrance for the priests, who crept underit. Over this was a veil of linen, of the samesize with the former: it was to be drawn thisway or that way by cords, whose rings fixedto the texture of the veil, and to the cordsalso, were subservient to the drawing and un­drawing of the veil, and to the fastening it atthe corner that it might be no hindrance tothe view of the sanctuary; especially on so­lemn days; but that on other days, and espe­cially when the weather was inclined to snow,it might be expanded, and afford a coveringto the veil of divers colours. Hence thatcustom of ours is derived, of having a finelinen veil after the temple has been built, tobe drawn over the entrances. The ten othercurtains were four cubits in breadth, andtwenty-eight in length, and had golden clasps,which joined the one curtain to the other, soexactly, that they seemed to be one entirecurtain. These were spread over the temple,and covered all the top, and part of the walls,Aa