OCR Output 232 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS. little while afterward I walked along with him, as though Iwould say something to him by himself, and, when I had drawnhim a good way from his friends, I took him about the middle,and gave him to my friends that were with me, to carry himinto a village ; and, commanding my armed men to come down,I wvth them made an assault upon Tiberias. Now, as the fightgrew hot on both sides, and the soldiers belonging to Tiberiaswere in a fair way to conquer me, (for my armed men were al­ready fled away), I saw the posture of my affairs ; and encoura­ging those that were with me, I pursued those of Tiberias, evenwhen they were already conquerors, into the city. 1 also sentanother band of soldiers into the city by the lake, and gave themorders to set on fire the first house they could seize upon. Whenthis was done, the people of Tiberias thought that their city wastaken by force, and so threw down their arms for fear, and im­plored, they, their wives and children, that I would spare theirpity. So I was over-persuaded by their entreaties, and restrainedthe soldiers from the vehemency with which they pursued them ;while I myself, upon the coming on of the evening, returnedback with my soldiers, and went to refresh myself. I also invi­ted Simon to sup with me, and comforted him on occasion ofwhat had happened ; and I promised that I would send him safeand secure to Jerusalem, and withal would give him provisionfor his journey thither. , 64. But, on the next day, I brought ten thousand men withme, and came to Tiberias. I then sent for the principal men ofthe multitude into the public place, and enjoined them to tell mewho were the authors of the revolt; and when they had toldme who the men were, I sent them' bound to the city Jotapa.But, ns to Jonathan and Ananias, I freed them from their bonds,and gave them provisions for their journey, together with Simon'and Joazar, and five hundred armed men who should guard them,and so I sent them to Jerusalem. The people of Tiberias alsocame to me again, and desired that I would forgive them forwhat they had done, and they said they would amend what theyhad done amiss with regard to me, by their fidelity for the timeto come ; and they besought me to preserve what spoils remain­ed upon the plunder of the city, for those that had lost them.—Accordingly, I enjoined those that had got them, to bring themall before us ; and when they did not comply for a great while,and I saw one of the soldiers that were about me with a garmenton that was more splendid than ordinary, I asked him whence hehad it; and he replied that he had it out of the plunder of thecity, I had him punished with stripes, and I threatened all the restto inflict a severer punishment upon them, unless they produced before