OCR Output ITALIA 85 ITALIA. wards ailed Sarnniam, until they were expelled, orrather subdued, by the Sabine colonists, who as­sumed the name of Samnites. (Id. v. p. 250.)[Samsium.] Whether they were more widely ex­tended we have no positive evidence; but there seemsa strong presumption that they had already spreadthemselves through the neighbouring districts ofItaly. Thus the Hirpini, who are represented as aSamnite or Sabellian colony, in all probability foundan Oscan population established in that country, asdid the Samnites proper in the more northern pro­vince. There are also strong arguments for re­garding the Volacians as of Oscan race, as well astheir neighbours and inseparable allies the Aequians.(Niebuhr, vol. i. pp. 7<>—73; Donaldson, Varro-mujuu. pp. 4, 5.) It was probably also an Oscantribe that was settled in the highlands of the Apen­nines about BsaUi, and which from thence descendedinto the plains of Latium, and constituted one im­portant element of the Latin nation. [Latium.]It is certain that, if that people was, as alreadymentioned, in part of Felasgic origin, it containedalso a very strong admixture of a non-Pdasgicrace: and the analogy of language leads us to derivethis Utter element from the Oscan. (Donaldson, l.c.)Indeed the extant monuments of the Oscan lan­guage are sufficient to prove that it bore a very closerelation to the oldest form of the Latin; and Niebuhrjustly remarks, that, had a single book in the Oscanlanguage been preserved, we should have had littledifficulty in deciphering it. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 68.)It is difficult to determine the precise relationwhich this primitive Oscan race bore to the Sabinesor Sabellians. The latter are represented as con­querors, making themselves masters of the countriespreviously occupied by the Oscans; but, both inSumnium and Campania, we know that the languagespoken in historical times, and even long after theKuman conquest, was still called Oscan; and weeven find the Samnites carrying the same languagewith them, as they gradually extended their con­quests, into the furthest recesses of Bruttium. (Fest.i. r. Bilingua Brutata, p. 35.) There seems littledi-ubt that the Samnite conquerors were a com­paratively small body of warriors, who readily adoptedthe language of the people whom they subdued, likethe Normans in France, and the Lombards inNorthern Italy. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 67.) But, atthe same time, there are strong reasons for sup-puung that the language of the Sabines themselves,and therefore that of the conquering Sabellian race,was not radically distinct from that of the Oscans,but that they were in fact cognate dialects, and thatthe two nations were members of the same familyor race. The questions concerning the Oscan lan­guage, so far as it is known to us from existing monu­ments, are more fully adverted to under the articleUacx*; but it must be borne in mind that all suchnvxiumenut are of a comparatively late period, andrepresent only the Sabello-Oscan, or the languagespoken by the combined people, long after the tworaces had been blended into one; and that we arealmost wholly without the means of distinguishingwhat portion was derived from the one source or theother. * See also Mommsen, Oshische Studien, 8vo.Berlin. 1845, and Sachtragt, Berl. 1846, and hisCater Italuchex Ifiolektt, Irfipzig, 1850, pp. 99—316; Kleme, Philologuclte Abhandltmgen, 8vo.Berlin, 1839. 3. The Sabellians.— This name, which issometimes used by ancient writers as synonymouswith that of the Sabines, sometimes to designate tlioSamnites in particular (l'lin. iii. 12. s. 17; Virgil,Georg. ii. 167; Hor. Sat. i. 9. 29, ii. 1. 36; Hein-dorf. ad he.), is commonly adopted by modern his­torians as a general appellation, including the Sabinesand all those races or tribes which, according to thedistinct tradition of antiquity, derived their originfrom them. These traditions are of a very differentcharacter from most of those transmitted to us, andhave apparently every claim to be received as histo­rical. And though we have no means of fixing thedate of the migrations to which they refer, it seemscertain that these cannot be carried back to a veryremote age; but that tbe Sabellian races had notvery long been established in the extensive regionsof Central Italy, where we find them in the historicalperiod. Their extension still further to the S. be­longs distinctly to the historical age, and did nottake place till long after the establishment of theGreek colonies in Southern Italy. The Sabines, properly so called, had their originalabodes, according to Cato (op. Dionys. ii. 49), in tilelofty ranges of the central Apennines and the uplandvalleys about Amitemum. It was from thence that,descending towards the western sea, they first beganto press upon the Aborigines, an Oscan race, whomthey expelled from the valleys about lieate, and thusgradually extended themselves into the countrywhich they inhabited under the Romans, and whichstill preserves its ancient name of La Sabina. But,while the nation itself had thus shifted its quartersnearer to the Tyrrhenian Sea, it had sent out atdifferent periods colonies or bodies of emigrants,which had established themselves to the £. and S.of their original abodes. Of these, the most powerfuland celebrated were the Samnites (Sauyrrai), a peoplewho are universally represented by ancient historiansas descended from the Sabines (Strub. v. p. 250;Fest. v. Samnites; Varr. L. L. vii. § 29); and thistradition, in itself sufficiently trustworthy, derivesthe strongest confirmation from the fact already no­ticed, that the Romans applied the name of Sabclli(obviously only another form of Sabini) to both na­tions indiscriminately. It is even probable that theSamnites called themselves Sabini, or Savini, for theOscan name "Safinim" is found on coins struckduring the Social War, which in all probability be­long to the Samnites, and certainly not to the Sa­bines proper. Equally distinct and uniform are thetestimonies to the Sabine origin of the Piceni orPicentes (Plin. iii. 13. a. 18; Strab. v. p. 240), whoare found in historical times in possession of thefertile district of Picenum, extending from the cen­tral chain of the Apennines to the Adriatic. ThePeligni also, as we learn from the evidence of theirnative poet (Ovid, Fatt. iii. 95), claimed to be ofSabine descent; and tbe same may fairly be as­sumed with regard to the Vestini, a tribe whom wefind in historical times occupying the very valleyswhich are represented as the original abodes of theSabines. We know nothing historically of the originof this people, any more than of their neighbours theMarrucini; but we find them both associated sofrequently with the Peligni and the Marsi, that it isprobable the four constituted a common league orconfederation, and this in itself raises a presumptionthat they were kindred races. Cato already re­marked, and without doubt correctly, that the namei of the .Marrucini was directly derived from that of o 3