OCR Output VALUE OF GOLD. ously mistaken who suppose that the colour of gold pleases us, be­cause it is like that of the fixed stars, for we do not find this to bethe case with respect to gems, or other similar articles. Nor dowe prefer it to other metals in consequence of its weight, or theease with which it is worked, because, in both these points, ityields to lead, but because it is the only substance which is notdestroyed by fire, remaining uninjured even in conflagrations andin funeral piles. Indeed, the oftener it is exposed to fire the moreit is improved; and in order to try the purity of gold, we observewhether, after being exposed to the fire, it becomes red, and glowslike the fire itself; this process is called the test;1 and the greatproof of the goodness of gold is the difficulty with which it is con­sumed. It is very remarkable, that while it is not affected by themost violent charcoal fire, it is very readily fused by chaff ;* andthat in order to purify it, it is necessary to heat it with lead. Abetter reason for its high price is, that it is so little liable to beworn by use, while with silver, copper, and lead, lines may bedrawn, and the hands are soiled with the matter which is rubbedoff them. Nor is any substance capable of being beat out intofiner leaves, or divided into smaller parts, so that an ounce of it iscapable of being extended out into 750 leaves or more, each of themfour fingers wide in both directions. The thickest of these arecalled Praenestine, still retaining this name, from their having beenused to gild the statue of Fortune, which is at Praeneste. Theleaves, which are the next to these in thickness, are calledQuaestorian. In Spain, the very small masses of gold are called Stigiles; thismetal, more frequently than all the others, being found either ina mass or in small fibres. And while the other metals require tobe reduced by fire, this is found in a perfect form, and possesses, 1 "Obrussa;" there is much uncertainty concerning both the orthographyand derivation of this word. It is used metaphorically by Cicero, "etadhibenda, tanquam obrussa, ratio ;" Brutus, sec. 74, p. 496; and by Seneca,"Sic verus ille animus, et in alienum non venturus arbitrium, probatur:hsec ejus obrussa est." Epist. xii. sub init. p. 407. Aericola informs usthat gold which had been purified by fusion was called " obryzum:" DeNat. Foss. lib. viii. p. 331. J Diodorus Siculus, in giving an account of the mode in which the Egyptiangold ore is refined, says that it is put into an earthen crucible, togetherwith a quantity'of salt, lead, (poXt/Moc), tin, (icaooiTtpoQ), and the bran ofbarley (KpiQivov wnvpov); lib. iii. sec. 14. d2