OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4%S by divorce or by death. The practice of second nuptialsbranded with the name of a legal adultery; and the persons whowere guilty of so scandalous an offence against Christian purity,were soon excluded from the honours, and even from the alms, ofthe church ',. Since desire was imputed as a crime, and marriagewas tolerated as a defect, it was confident with the fame principlesto consider a state of celibacy as the nearest approach to the Divineperfection. It was with the utmost difficulty that ancient Romecould support the institution of six vestals 9*; but the primitivechurch was filled with a great number of persons of either sex, whohad devoted themselves to the profession of perpetual chastity 9i. Afew of these, among whom we may reckon the learned Origen, judgedit the most prudent to disarm the tempter 9*. Some were insensibleand some were invincible against the assaults of the flesh. Disdainingan ignominious flight, the virgins of the warm climate of Africaencountered the enemy in the closest engagement; they permittedpriests and deacons to share their bed, and gloried amidst the flamesin their unsullied purity. But insulted Nature sometimes vindicatedher rights, and this new species of martyrdom served only to in­troduce a new scandal into the church 9S. Among the Christianascetics, however, (a name which they soon acquired from theirpainful exercise) many, as they were less presumptuous, were pro­bably more successful. The loss of sensual pleasure was suppliedand compensated by spiritual pride. Even the multitude of Paganswere inclined to estimate the merit of the sacrifice by its apparentdifficulty; and it was in the praise of these chaste spouses of Christthat the fathers have poured forth the troubled stream of theireloquence a<5. Such are the early traces of monastic principles andinstitutions, which, in a subsequent age, have counterbalanced allthe temporal advantages of Christianity The Christians were not less averse to the business than to the Their aw.pleasures of this world. The defence of our persons and property bofiaefiof war and*"ey governor, ut