OCR Output TAUE1CA CHERSONESUS. TAUHICA CIIERSOXESUS. lltl 11 at first called Megarice, apparently from tlio.numstance tlut Mepara was the mother city of the'titio Heracleots. From these settlers the littlemnwla ire have jost described obtained the name of!' CiieR9o!icstrs Heracleotica, or Heracleoticuwnfw, sometimes also called " the small Chor-jceias" (v putpd, Strab, I c), by way of distinctionv. the great, or Tauric, peninsula.The original city of Chersonesus seems to haretn foioded at the westernmost point of the penin-ii. otae to the present Cape Fanary. The dateni occasion of its foundation are not ascertained;at Xenmanu conjectures that it may have been•ih about the middle of the fifth century B.C. (Diefffiram, fe. p. 383). Considerable remains of thexient city were visible so late as the end of the laststory (Clarke, Trav. 11 pp. 292,seq.; Pallas, ii.p 70, »eq); but every trace of them bad vanishedhra Manwiew Apostol visited the spot (ReisewrA Taurirn, p. 62). They were destroyed by artt.n Lieut- Kruse. who used the stones for build-C and eoDverted the ground into a vineyard (L)u-• de Montperreax, Voyages. ice. vi. p. 133). Thei sn\ Ctiersonesus, however, had fallen into decay'fore the time of Strabo; but the new town wasttrUhtng and appears from the ruins to have beenaud so the W. aide of what is now the Quarantinearbour of Sebastopol (Neumann, p. 392). Theset vat much damaged towards the end of thejr*.e*nth century by Olgierd, sovereign of Lithuania,*t* which time it has been gradually falling intor* (Karamsin, Huss. Gesch. v. 13. Germ. tr.).tw Turks carried away many of its sculptures and■liLi.tis to adorn Constantinople. Nevertheless, the ill hough almost entirely deserted, remained for>■ centuries in so perfect a state that a plan mightivt been drawn of it at the time when it came into';>i^rHion of the Russians; but its ruin was sooni ; i<:ed by its new masters, who blew up the wallsStrayed the graves and temples. (Clarke, ii.2<»r.) Pliny (iv. 12. s. 2G) gives the circumferenceiti walls at b miles; but their outline could stilltraced in 1820, and according to Dubois tie Mont-rreox (vi. 138), was only about a quarter of that'. It is probable that Pliny may have confounded* tuwn walls with the wall or rampart which ex-kird across the isthmus, which, as we have already Mrabo describee as being 40 stadia, or 5 miles,*d. The same writer sjwaks of it in another place■US) as being fortified with a wall. This walli Cram Ctenua, at the E. extremity of the harbourS*?*utt,pol to Symbolon (Balaclava) on the S.■1. md appears to have been made by the Bos-t:< Lines at a defence against the Scythians. Anwnt of its remaining vestiges is given by Clarke. fu285, seq.; cf. Seymour, p. 149.)- The wholeilmttre was anciently covered with gardens and and the foundations of houses and of the boun-? t*ILi of fields and gardens may still be traced,as many remains of the town on the promon-Utween Quarantine Bay and Streletsha Bat;."age* of the principal street show it to have been1 broad. The town wall on the land side wasv 2 miles long, built of limestone, and 5 or 6t thick, with 3 towers (Seymour, p. 150).'■v antiquities and coins have been found in the of Chersonesus. In the neighbourhood aro>rn of the most simple kind, hewn in the rock.*7 are easy of access, and present in this respectf ■writable contrast to those at Panticapaeum;'-, from this cause, nothing but bones have been found in them, whilst those at Panticapaeum haveyielded valuable antiquities. According to Clarke(ii. 201, 210), the town of Eupatorium stood closeto Chersonesus, though others have identified it withInkerman. About the latter place, the ancientCtenus, the rock is pierced all over with the subter­ranean dwellings of the ancient Tauri. On the topare the ruins of the castle built by Diophantes,general of Mithrjdates, to defend the Chersoneseagainst the Tauro-Scythians. These caverns orcrypts ire now rapidly falling in. (Seymour, p.140.) Similar caves are found in other parts of thepeninsula. The Heracleotic Chersonese was noted as the seatof the savage worship of Diana Tauropolis. Thenatives, or Tauri, themselves had a worship of asimilar kind [Tauri] ; but whether it was indige­nous among them, or whether they borrowed it fromthe Dorian Ueracleots who settled here, cannot beascertained. The account of the Tauri themselves,that their virgin goddess was Iphigenia, the daughterof Agamemnon, would seem to lead to the latter con­clusion ; though it is well known that the nations ofpagan antiquity readily adopted one another's deitieswhen any similarity was observable in their rightsand attributes; and from the account of Herodotus(iv. 103) it might perhaps be inferred that thishorrible worship existed among the Tauri before thearrival of the Greeks. Artemis was a peculiarlyDorian deity, and was worshipped in several parts ofGreece with human sacrifices. There was a tradi­tion that the town of Chersonesus was founded byArtemis herself. The Heracleot Chersonites erecteda famous temple on a headland which took the nameof Parthenium from it. Strabo however merely callsthe Parthenium '* the temple of the virgin, a certaindaemon'* (p. 308), and does not mention Artemis.Opinions vary as to which is the real promontory ofParthenium. Many seek it at cape Fanary orChersonese, which seems too near the town of Cher­sonesus, as Strabo places the temple at the distanceof 100 stadia from the town, though Fanary answ ersto his description in other re>pects. Clarke andPallas identify it with the A ia Bartm or " SacredPromontory** (Clarke, ii. p. 286, and note), betweenCape Fioltnteand Balaclara,\rh\cht besides its name,has also a ruin to recommend it; though the latterclaim to notice ia shared by C. FioUnte. Dubois deMontperreux (vi. p. 194, sq.) thinks that the templelimy have stood on the spot now occupied by themonastery of St. George; whilst Neumann, apainplaces it on the headland a little to the NW. of C.FioUnte. It will be seen that these opinions rcr-ton little more than conjecture. On the coins of theHeracleotic Chersonese the image of Artemis occursby far the most frequently. She sometimes apj>earswith Apollo, sometimes with Hercules, the patronhero of the mother city, but more generally alone,and always as the goddess of the chase, never asSelene (Von Kohne, in the Memoirs of the Ar­chaeology, and Numism. Society of St. Pttersbtny,vol. ii. ap. Neumann, p. 420). On other coins a tishis frequently seen ; and one has a plough on theobverse, and an ear of corn between two fishes on thereverse (/6.). The bays of the Heracleotic penin­sula abound with fish, which formed a great part ofthe riches of the country. Of the history of the Heracleotic Chersonesuswe know but little, but it may perhaja be in­ferred from tlie Inscription of Agancles thatits constitution was republican. It was iinpor- 4 B 4