OCR Output 70 CffiEULEUM. pictures; but for painting of pannels,' the gritty species alone isused, because the grit which is in it resists the acrid nature of thelime. It is dug out of the hills about twenty miles from the city.It is afterwards calcined, and is so adulterated that it is sold forthe pressed kind. But that it is counterfeit, and has been calcined,is evident from its acrid nature; for we find that it falls into pow足der. Polygnotus and Micon were the first painters who used Sil;they, however, used the Attic kind only. In the following agethis kind was used to produce the lights, the Syrican and theLydian being for the shades. The Lydian was procured at Sardis,but is no longer used. 57. OF CCBBULEUM.1 Coeruleum is a kind of sand. Formerly there were three kindsof it: the Egyptian, which is the most esteemed; the Scythian,which is easily mixed up, and when it is triturated produces fourshades of colour, some lighter and others darker; but the Cyprianis preferred to this. Besides these, there is that from Puteoli andfrom Spain, which is prepared there artificially from sand. Theyare all coloured by being boiled with a certain plant, the juice ofwhich they imbibe: the process is the same with that which isemployed for making chrysocolla. From Coeruleum is produced 9 " Abacus j" this term seems to be applied by Vitmvius to various partsof architecture; in lib. iii. cap. 3, and in iv. 1 and 7, it is supposed to desig足nate the flat stone that is placed over the capital of a column; while in vii. 3and 4, it means a pannel or entablature; see the lexicon to Rhode's Vitruvius,and the note in Newton's trans, p. 160 and 162; he remarks that the generalsignification of the term is a flat tabulated surface. 1 Dioscorides describes " nvavog," translated by Virgilius Coeruleum, asbeing found in the copper mines of Cyprus, and formed in caverns on thesea shore; lib. v. cap. 60. See also Vitruvius, vii. 9 and 11; Rhode in hisLexicon, and Newton, p. 172, note, suppose it to be smalt, or the oxide ofcobalt; but there is reason to suppose that the ancients were not acquaintedwith this substance. Theophrastus speaks of Kvavog, as a substance of asandy nature, and mentions both the native and the artificial species; Op.p. 399. It was probably a carbonate of copper, the azure or mountainblue of the moderns; see Kirwan's Min. i. 129.. 1; Jameson's Min. ii.218..6; Brochant, Min. ii. 190..6; and Aikins'Diet. i. 321. Theophras足tus also applies the word Kvavog to a kind of gem; Op. p. 395; perhapsLapis Lazuli. The word kvovoq appears likewise to have been occasionallyemployed to signify a species of metal; Homer speaks of ni\ag Kvavog as en足tering into the composition of the breast-plate of Agamemnon, II. xi. lin. 24;