OCR Output 164 TITUS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V. and ran with violence into the midst of his enemies, in orderto force his way through them to his own men. And hencewe may principally learn, that both the success of wars, andthe dangers that kings1 are in, are under the providence ofGod: for while such a number of darts were thrown at Titus,when he had neither his head-piece on nor his breast-plate,(for, as I told you, he went out not to fight, but to view thecity,) none of them touched his body, but went aside withouthurting him, as if all of them missed him on purpose, andonly made a noise as they passed by him. So he divertedthose perpetually with his sword that came on his side, andoverturned many of those that directly met him, and madehis horse ride over those that were overthrown. The enemyindeed made a shout at the boldness of Caesar, and exhortedone another to rush upon him. Yet did those against whomhe marched fly away, and go off from him in great numbers;while those that were in the same danger with him kept upclose to him, though they were wounded both on their backsand on their sides; for they had each of them but this onehope of escaping, if they could assist Titus in opening him­self a way, that he might not be encompassed round by hisenemies before he got away from them. Now there were twoof those that were with him, but at some distance; the oneof which the enemy had encompassed round, and slew himwith their darts, and his horse also; but the other they slewas he leaped down from his horse, and carried off his horsewith them. But Titus escaped with the rest, and came safeto the camp. So this success of the Jews' first attack raisedtheir minds, and gave them an ill grounded hope; and thisshort inclination of fortune on their side made them verycourageous for the future. 3. But now, as soon as that legion that had been at Era-maus was joined to Caesar at night, he removed thence whenit was day, and came to a place named Scopus ; from whencethe city began already to be seen, and a plain view might betaken of the great temple. Accordingly, this place on thenorth quarter of the city, and adjoining thereto, was a plain, 1 See the preceding note.