OCR Output MOESIA. 307 MOESIA. not exceed 12 feet, and even where it is deepest is ionly 28. We may indeed admit, that, so long as!the fisheries were a royal monopoly, a larger body of Iwater was admitted from the Nile, and the ordinary;depth of the lake may thus have been greater than'at present. It is also possible that much of thesurrounding country, now covered with sand, mayformerly, during the inundation, have been entirelysubmerged, and therefore that the pyramids whichHerodotus saw, the sides of which even now beartraces of submersion (Vyse, On the Pyramids, jYoJ. iii. p. 84). may have been the truncated py­ramids of Biakmu, now beyond the reach of the |Birkf.t-el-Kervn, but within the range of the ancient |Moms. Herodotus, if, as is probable, he visited theArsiuoite nome in the wet season, may have beenstruck with the elevation of the?* monuments abovethe lake, and exaggerated (heir proportions as wellabove as below its surface. Pococke {Travels,vol L p, 65) tells us that he saw on its westernextremity, **a head of land setting out into the lake,in a semicircular figure, with white cliffs and aLeipht above," which he thought might be the lowerput of the two pyramids described by Herodotus.And Pe're Lucas ( Voyages en Egypte, vol. ii. p. 48)observed an island in the middle of the lake, a goodleague in circumference* He was assured by hisguides that it contained tho ruins of several templesand tombs, two of which were loftier and broaderthan the rest The region of Moeris awaits more accurate sur­vey. The best accounts of it, as examined bymodern travellers, will be found in Belzoni, Travels;CbampoUion, rJCgypte, vol. L p. 329; Jomard,Ikscript de V Egypt*, vol. i. p. 79; Kitter, Erd-famoV, vol L p. 803. [\V. B. D.] MOE'SIA, a Roman province in Europe, wasb-junded on the S. by M. Haemus, which separatedit from Thrace, and by M. Orbelus and Scordus,which separated it from Macedonia, on the W. byM. Scordus and the rivers Drinus and Savus, whichseparated it from lllyricum and Pannonia, on theN. by the Danube, which separated it from Dacia,and on the E. by the Pont us Euxinus, thus cor-iwpon-iinz to the present Servia and Bulgaria.The Greeks called it Mysia (Muffia), and the in­habitants Mysians (Mwo(), and sometimes Euro­pean My-ia (Mtwt'a ij iv Eupwirn, Dion Cass. xlix.36: Appian, III. 6), to distinguish it from Mysia inAsia. The original inhabitants of Moesia were, accordingto Strabo, a tribe of Thracians, and were the ances­tors uf the Mysians of Asia (vii. p. 295). Of theeariy history of the country, little or nothing isknuwn. In b. c. 277, a large body of Gaulish in-TfcJers entered Moesia, after the defeat and death ofti*ir (eader Brennus, and settled there under the•an** **f the Scordisci. The Komans first enteredM-*?ia in n. c. 75, when C. Scribonius Curio, pro-"wal of )lacedonia, penetrated as far as the«*Rube, and gained a victory over the M*«sians.(K Kof. Brtv. 7; Jornand. de Regit. Succ. 50;tutrnp. vi. 2.) But the permanent subjugation of-M*>ia was probably effected by M. Licinius Crassus,'bf fT*nd>on of the triumvir, who was proconsul of \M**d*iia id a. c. 29. (Liv. Ep. 134, 135; DionC«*. U. 25—27; Flor. iv. 12, 15.) This may be j"irTTed from the statement of Dion Cassius (liii. 7), |•ho re presents Augustus two years afterwards I(** c 17) ppeaking of the subjugation of Gallia, I¥fl**» «nd Aegypt. Further, in a. o. 6, Dion Cos- J sius mentions the governor of Mysia (Iv. 29), and inA. D. 14 Tacitus speaks of the legatus Moesiae{Ann. i. 79); so that there can be no doubt that itwas reduced into the form of a province in the reignof Augustus, and that the statement of Appian isincorrect, that it did not become a Koman provincetill the reign of Tiberius. (IlL 30.) In the reignof Tiberius, Moesia was laid waste by the Daciansand Sarmatians, being then without a garrison, con­trary to the nsual Roman practice, for a legion wasgenerally stationed there. (Suet. Tib. 41, Vesp. 6;Tacit. Ann. xvi. 6.) As a frontier province of theempire, it was strengthened by a line of stations andfortresses along the south bank of the Danube. ARoman wall was built from Axiopolis to Tomi, as adefence against the Sarmatians and Scythians, whoinhabited tho delta of the Danube. Moesia wasoriginally only one province, but was divided intotwo provinces, called Moesia Superior and Inferior,prolmbly at the commencement of Trajan's reign.(Marquardt, in Becker's Romisch. Alterth. vol. iii.pt. i. p. 106.) Each province was governed by aconsular legatus, and was divided into smaller dis­tricts {regiones et vict). Moesia Superior was thewestern, and Moesia Inferior the eastern half of thecountry; they were separated from each other bythe river Cebrus or Ciabrus, a tributary of theDanube. (Ptol. iii. 9, 10.) They contained severalRoman colonies, of which two, Ratiaria and Oescus,were made colonies by Trajan, and Viminacium byGordian III. (Marquardt, I. c.) The conquest ofDacia, by Trajan, removed the frontiers of theempire farther north, beyond the Danube. Theemperor Hadrian visited Moesia, as we are informedby his medals, in his general progress through theempire, and games in his honour were celebrated atPinciun. In A. d. 250 the Goths invaded Moesia.Decius, who was then emperor, marched againstthem, but was defeated and killed in a battle withthem in 251. What the valour of Decius couldnot effect, his successor, Trebonianus Gallus, ob­tained by bribery; and the Goths withdrew to theDniester. When Aurelian gave up Dacia to theGoths, and withdrew his troops and part of the in­habitants to the south side of the river, he formed asettlement in the heart of Moesia, which was namedfrom him Dacia Aureliani. [Dacia, Vol. 1. p. 745]In 395 the Ostrogoths, being hard pressed by theHuns, requested permission of the Romans to passthe Danube, and settle in Moesia. The requestwas acceded to by Valens, who was then emperor,and a large number took advantage of the privilege.They soon, however, quarrelled with the Romanauthorities, and killed Valens, who marched to op­pose them. The Goths, who settled in Moesia, aresometimes called Moeso-Goths, and it was for theiruse that Ulphilas translated the Scriptures intoGothic about the middle of the fourth century. Inthe seventh century the Slavonians entered Moesia,and the Bulgarians about the same time, andfounded the kingdoms of Bulgaria and Servia. Moesia was occupied by various populations; thefollowing are enumerated by Ptolemy and Pliny(Ptol. iii. 9; Plin. iii. 26): the Dardnni, Celegeri,Triballi, Timachi, Moesi, Thraces, Scythae, Tricor-nesii, Pincensii, Troglodytes, and Peucini, to whichmay be added the Scordisci. (Liv. xl. 57.) Therelative situations of these people were somewhat asfollows: the Dardani, said to be a colony from Dar-dania in Asia, dwelt on the borders of Macedonia.The Triballi dwelt near the river Ciabrus; the