OCR Output AN. 337 855.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the letter, they were afraid; and, consideringtheir utter inability to oppose him who hadalready subdued two great kings, they re­turned for answer, that they owned him fortheir lord, and would do whatsoever he com­manded them. So he wrote back, enjoiningthem to cut off the heads of Ahab's sons, andsend them to him. Accordingly the rulerssent for those that brought up the sons ofAhab, and commanded them to cut off theirheads, and send them to Jehu. This wasaccordingly done, and the heads were put inwicker baskets, and sent to Jezreel. Andwhen Jehu, as he was at supper with hisfriends, was informed that the heads of Ahab'ssons were brought, he ordered them to maketwo heaps of them, one before each of thegates: and in the morning he went out totake a view of them; and when he saw them,he began to say to the people that were pre­sent, that he certainly made an expeditionagainst his master Joram, and slew him; butthat it was not he that slew all these. Andhe desired them to take notice, that as toAhab's family, all things had come to passaccording to God's prophecy; and his housewas perished, according as Elijah had fore­told.* And when he had farther destroyedall the kindred of Ahab that was found inJezreel, he went to Samaria. And as he wasupon the road, he met the relations of Aha-ziah king of Jerusalem, and asked themwhither they were going? They replied,that they came to salute Joram, and theirown king Ahaziah; for they knew not that hehad slain them both. So Jehu gave ordersthat they should be taken and slain, being innumber forty-two persons. After these, there met him a righteous man,whose name was Jehonadab; and who hadbeen his friend of old. He saluted Jehu,and began to commend him, because he haddone every thing according to the will ofGod, in extirpating the house of Ahab. SoJehu desired him to come up into his chariot,and make his entry with him into Samaria;and told him that he would not spare onewicked man, but would punish the false pro­phets and false priests, and those that de­ceived the multitude, and persuaded them toleave the worship of the Almighty, and to * 2 Kings x. 10. worship foreign gods; and that it was a mostexcellent and pleasing sight to a righteousman to see the wicked punished. So Jeho­nadab was persuaded by these arguments,and came into Jehu's chariot, and came toSamaria. And Jehu sought out for all Ahab'skindred, and slew them. And, being de­sirous that none of the false prophets, nor thepriests of Ahab's god might escape punish­ment, he caught them deceitfully by the fol­lowing artifice:—He gathered all the peopletogether, and said, that " he would worshiptwice as many gods as Ahab had worshipped;and desired that his priests and prophets, andservants, might be present; because he wouldoffer costly and great sacrifices to Ahab'sgod; and that if any of his priests werewanting, they should be punished with death.Now Ahab's god was called Baal: and whenhe had appointed a day on which he wouldoffer those sacrifices, he sent messengersthrough all the country of the Israelites, thatthey might bring the priests of Baal to him.So Jehu commanded to give all the priestsvestments; and when they had receivedthem, he went into the house of Baal, withhis friend Jehonadabf and gave orders tomake search whether there were not anyforeigner or stranger among them; for hewould have no one of a different religion tomix among their sacred offices. And whenthey said that there was no stranger there,and they were beginning their sacrifices, heset eighty of his most faithful soldiers withoutthe doors, and bade them slay the false pro­phets, and vindicate the laws of their country,which had been a long time in disesteem.He also threatened that if any escaped, theirown lives should go for them. So they slewthem all with the sword; and destroyed thehouse of Baal,f and by that means purgedSamaria of idolatrous worship. Now thisBaal was the god of the Tyrians; and Ahab,in order to gratify his father-in-law, Ethbaal,who was the king of Tyre and Sidon, built atemple for him in Samaria; and appointedhim prophets, and worshipped him with allsorts of worship. This idol Jehu now de­molished, but he still permitted the Israelitesto worship the golden heifers. However,because he had done thus, and taken care to T 2 Kings x. 27.