OCR Output CHAP. LI. 449 both in words and actions, that the victory of theArabs had not impaired his attachment to their cause.Some enemies yet remained for the sword of Musa.The tardy repentance of the Goths had comparedtheir own numbers and those of the invaders; thecities from which the march of Tarik had declined, con­sidered themselves as impregnable; and the bravest pa­triots defended the fortifications of Seville and Merida.They were successively besieged and reduced by the la­bour of Musa, who transported his camp from the Boetisto the Anas, from the Guadalquiver to the Guadiana.When he beheld the works of Roman magnificence, thebridge, the aqueducts, the triumphal arches, and thetheatre, of the ancient metropolis of Lusitania, " I shouldimagine (said he to his four companions) that the humanrace must have united their art and power in the foun­dation of this city; happy is the man who shall becomeits master!" He aspired to that happiness, but the Eme-ritans sustained on this occasion the honour of their de­scent from the veteran legionaries of Augustus.7 Dis­daining the confinement of their walls, they gave battleto the Arabs on the plain; but an ambuscade rising fromthe shelter of a quarry, or a ruin, chastised their indis­cretion, and intercepted their return. The wooden tur­rets of assault were rolled forwards to the foot of therampart; but the defence of Merida was obstinate andlong; and the castle of the martyrs was a perpetual tes­timony of the losses of the Moslems. The constancy ofthe besieged was at length subdued by famine and de­spair; and the prudent victor disguised his impatienceunder the names of clemency and jesteem. The alterna­tive of exile or tribute was allowed; the churches weredivided between the two religions; and the wealth of 7 The honourable relics of the Cantabrian war (Dion Cassias, lib. 53. p. 720.)were planted in this metropolis of Lusitania, perhaps of Spain. (Submittit cui totaeuos Hispania fasces.) Nonius (Hispania, c. 31. p. 106—110.) enumerates theancient structures, but concludes with a sigh,—Urbs hsc olim nobilissima ad mug.nam incolarum infrequentiam delapsa est, et prater priscie claritatis minus nihilostendit. VOL. VI, 2 C