OCR Output an. 1264.] 169 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. people went out, and Gaal with them, at thehead of his soldiery, bo they gathered theirfruit with safety; and when they were atsupper in several companies, they then ven­tured to curse Abimelech openly,* and themagistrates laid ambushes in places aboutthe city, and caught many of Abimelech'sfollowers, and destroyed them. Now there was one Zebul, a magistrate ofthe Shechemites, that had entertained Abim­elech. He sent messengers, and informedhim how much Gaal had irritated the peopleagainst him, and excited him to lay ambushesbefore the city; for that he would persuadeGaal to go out against him; which wouldleave it in his power to be revenged on him;and when that was once done, he would bringhim to be reconciled to the city. So Abime­lech laid ambushes, and himself laid withthem. Now Gaal abode in the suburbs, tak­ing little care of himself; and Zebul waswith him. Now as Gaal saw the armed mencoming on, he said to Zebul, that some armedmen were coming; but the other replied,they were only shadows of huge stones;f and,when they were come nearer, Gaal perceivedwhat was the reality, and said they were notshadows, but men lying in ambush. Thensaid Zebul, "Didst not thou reproach Abim­elech for cowardice? why dost thou not then * Judg. ix. 27. t Our translation of the Book of Judges from the He­brew, represents Zebul as saying to Gaal, upon his beingalarmed at seeing troops of men making to him, Thou seestthe shadazes of the mountains as if they were men, ch. ix.ver. 36. Whereas Josephus represents him as tellinghim, he mistook the shadow of the rocks for men. Acommentator might be at a loss to account for this change,that had not read Deubdan's representation of some partof the Holy Land, in which he tells us, that in those placesthere are many detached rocks scattered up and down,some growing out of the ground, (Voyage, p. 98,) .ndothers are fragments broken off from rorky precipices, theshadow of which it appears Josephus thought might bemost naturally imagined to look like troops of men at adistance, rather than the shadow of the mountains. Har-mer's Observations, vol. I. p. 98. Clarke's Edition. B. t In the text the expression is, Then God sent an evilspirit, or spirit of discord, between Abimelech and the menof Shecliem, Judg. ix. 23. which, in Scripture, is an un­usual form of speech, and denotes not any positive action,but a permission only, or, at most, a direction from God.It is observed, however, that this manner of expressionmay possibly have given rise to some notions in the theo­logy of the Heathens, when they suppose, that the furiesappointed by the gods to sow the seeds of discord amongmen: shew how very courageous thou art thyself,and go and light him?" So Gaal being indisorder, joined battle with Abimelech, andsome of his men fell; whereupon he fled intothe city, and took his men with him. ButZebul managed his matters so in the city, thathe procured them to expel Gaal out of thecity; and this by accusing him of cowardicein this action with the soldiers of Abimelech.:}:But Abimelech, when he had learned that theShechemites were again coming out to gathertheir grapes, placed ambushes before thecity; and when they were come out, the thirdpart of his army took possession of the gatesto hinder the citizens from returning, whilstthe rest pursued those that were scatteredabroad; and so there was slaughter everywhere; and when he had overthrown the cityto the very foundations, (for it was not ableto bear a siege) and had sown its ruins withsalt,|| he proceeded on with his army, till allthe Shechemites were slain. As for thosethat were scattered about the country, and soescaped the danger, they were gathered toge­ther unto a certain strong rock, and settledthemselves upon it, and prepared to build awall about: but when Abimelech knew theirintentions, he prevented them; and cameupon them with his forces; and laid fnggotsof dry wood round the place, he himself .1 Luctificam Alecto, dirarum ab sede sororumInfernisque ciet tenebris; cui tristia bella,Iraeque, insidiaeque, et crimina noxia cordi.And a little lower, Disjice compositam pacem, sere crimina belli:Anna velit, poscatque simul, rapiatque juventus. Virg. JEn. 7. B II The effect of salt, where it abounds, on vegetation,is described by burning, Dent. xxix. 23. Thus Volney,speaking of the borders of the Asphaltic Lake, or DeadSea, says, "the true cause of the absence of vegetablesand animals, is the acrid saltness of its waters, which isinfinitely greater than that of the sea. The land sur­rounding the lake being equally impregnated with thatsaltness refuses to produce plants: the air itself, which isby evaporation loaded with it, and which moreover re­ceives vapours of sulphur and bitumen, cannot suit vege­tation: whence the dead appearance which reigns roundthe lake." Voyage en Syrie, tom. i. p. 282. Tims alsoVirgil. Georg. lib. ii. 238. Hence the ancient custom ofsowing an enemy's city, when taken, with salt, in tokenof perpetual desolation. Judg. ix. 45. And thus in after-times, Ann. 1162, the city of Milan was burnt, razed,sown with salt, and ploughed by the exasperated emperorFrederic Barbarossa. Complete System of Georg. vol. I.p. 822, B.