OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 147 tide by conquest; but this sword would have beendrawn against the foreign and domestic enemies of thestate. The decline of his health and vigour suspendedthe operation of active virtue; and the prospect of ap­proaching death determined him to interpose some mo­ments betweentife and eternity. But instead of leavingthe empire as the marriage-portion of his daughter, hisreason and inclination concurred in the preference of hisbrother John, a soldier, a patriot, and the father of fivesons, the future pillars of an hereditary succession. Hisfirst modest reluctance might be the natural dictates ofdiscretion and tenderness, but his obstinate and success­ful perseverance, however it may dazzle with the showof virtue, must be censured as a criminal desertion of hisduty, and a rare offence against his family and country.The purple which he had refused was accepted by Con-stantine Ducas, a friend of the Comnenian house, andwhose noble birth was adorned with the experience andreputation of civil policy. In the monastic habit, Isaacrecovered his health, and survived two years his volun­tary abdication. At the command of his abbot, he ob­served the rule of St. Basil, and executed the most ser­vile offices of the convent: but his latent vanity wasgratified by the frequent and respectful visits of thereigning monarch, who revered in his person the cha­racter of a benefactor and a saint.^ If Constantino XI. were indeed the subject tine XL most worthy of empire, we must pity the debase-A.Djiosg, ment of the age and nation in which he wasDec' 2'7. chosen. In the labour of puerile declamationshe sought, without obtaining, the crown of eloquence,more precious, in his opinion, than that of Rome: and,in the subordinate functions of a judge, he forgot theduties of a sovereign and a warrior. Far from imitatingthe patriotic indifference of the authors of his greatness,Ducas was anxious only to secure, at the expense ofthe republic, the power and prosperity of his children. L2