OCR Output B. IV. 393 YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423. the town to secure it, and then repassed to Torone. Butsoon after he transported thither the greater part of his force,designing with the aid of the Scioneans to make attemptsupon Mende and Potidaea. He concluded however that theAthenians would lose no time in throwing in a succour asinto an island, and so he endeavoured to be beforehand withthem. He had already formed an intelligence to the prejudice ofthose cities to get them betrayed: and he was now intent onexecuting his schemes against them. But during this pause,Aristonymus dispatched by the Athenians, and Athenaeusby the Lacedaemonians to circulate the news, arrive in a tri足reme, and notify to him the suspension of arms. His forceswere then transported back to Torone. The persons employed communicated the articles of thcstruce to Brasidas, and all the Lacedaemonian confederatesin Thrace declared their acquiescence in what had beendone. Aristonymus was well satisfied in other respects, butfinding, by computing the days, that the revolt of the Scio足neans was too late in point of time, he protested againsttheir being intitled to the benefit of the truce. Brasidas onthe other hand urged many arguments to prove it prior intime, and refuseth to restore that city. When thereforeAristonymus had reported this affair at Athens, the Athe足nians in an instant were ready to take up arms again for thereduction of Scione. But the Lacedaemonians, by an em足bassy purposely dispatched, remonstrated that " they should" regard such a proceeding as a breach of the truce," andasserted " their right to the city as they reposed entire cre-" dit on Brasidas ; however, they were ready to refer the" dispute to a fair arbitration." The others refused to abideby so hazardous a decision, but would recover it as soon aspossible by force of arms. They were irritated at thethought, that persons seated as it were upon an island shouldpresume to revolt from them, and place such confidence inthe unprofitable land power of the Lacedaemonians. There