OCR Output AS. 59 1747.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tion for the preservation of the life of Ben­jamin. Joseph being now overcome with his affec­tion, and no longer able to personate an angryman, commanded all that were present todepart, that he might make himself known tohis brethren, when they were alone.* Andwhen the rest were gone out, he discoveredhimself, and said, "I commend you for yourvirtue, and for your kindness to your brother;I find you better men than I could have ex- fiected from what you contrived about me.ndeed I did all this to try your love to yourbrother. So I believe you were not wickedby nature, in what you did in my case: butthat all has happened according to God's will;who has thereby procured our enjoyment ofwhat good things we have; and if he continuein a favourable disposition, of what we hopefor hereafter. Since, therefore, I know thatour father is safe, and well, beyond expecta­tion; and I see you so well disposed towardsyour brother, I will no longer remember whatguilt you seem to have had about me; butrather return you my thanks, that you haveconcurred with the intentions of God to bringthings to their present state. I would haveyou also forget the same, since that impru­dence of yours is come to such a happy con­clusion, rather than to be uneasy and blush atthose your offences. Do not therefore, letyour evil intentions, when you condemnedme, and that bitter remorse which might fol­low, be a grief to you now: because thoseintentions were frustrated. Go your way, re­joicing in what has happened by the divineprovidence, and inform your father of it, lesthe should be spent with tears for you, and de­prive me of the most agreeable part of myfelicity; I mean lest he should die before hecomes into my sight, and enjoys the goodthings that we now have. Take therefore,with you our father, and your wives and chil­dren, and all your kindred, and remove yourhabitation hither; for it is not proper that thepersons dearest to me should live remote fromme, now my affairs are so prosperous; espe­cially when they must endure five more yearsof famine." When Joseph had said this, heembraced his brethren, who were in tears andsorrow; but the* generous kindness of their * Gen. xIt. 1. vor,. i.—no. 5. brother seemed to leave among them no roomfor fear, lest they should be punished on ac­count of what they had consulted and actedagainst him. And they were then feasting.Now the king, as soon as he heard that Jo­seph's brethren were come to him, was ex­ceeding glad of it, as if it had been part ofhis own good fortune; and gave them wag­gons full of corn, and gold, and silver, to beconveyed to their father. Now when theyhad received more of their brother; part tobe carried to their father, and part as free giftsto every one of themselves, Benjamin havingstill more than the rest, they departed. CHAP. VII. OF THE REMOVAL OF JACOB AND ALL HIS FAMILY INTO EGYTT,ON ACCOUNT OF THE FAMINE. AS soon as Jacob came to know by hissons' returning home, in what state Jo­seph was; that he had not only escaped death,but that he lived in splendour and happiness,and ruled over Egypt, jointly with the king;and had intrusted to his care almost all hisaffairs, he did not think any thing he was toldto be incredible, considering the greatness ofthe works of God, and his kindness to him:although that kindness had, for some timepast, been intermitted. So he immediatelyand zealously set out upon his journey to him. When he came to the well of the oath,Beersheba, he offered sacrifice to God,f andbeing afraid that the happiness there was inEgypt might tempt his posterity to fall in lovewith it, and settle in it, and no more think ofremoving into the land of Canaan, and pos­sessing it as God had promised them; also,being afraid, lest if this descent into Egyptwere made without the will of God, his familymight be destroyed there, and out of fear lesthe should depart this life before he came tothe sight of Joseph, he fell asleep, revolvingthese doubts in his mind. But God stood by him, and called to himtwice by his name: and when he asked whohe was? God said, "Is it not just that thouJacob shouldest be acquainted with that Godwho has ever been a protector and a helperto thy forefathers, and after them to thyself.For when thy father would have deprived t Gen. xlvii. 1.