OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SI coming close to Elisha's body it revived again. And thusfar have we enlarged about the actions of Elisha the prophet,both such as he did while he was alive, and how he had adivine power after his death also.' 7. Now upon the death of Hazael, the king of Syria, thatkingdom came to Adad his son, with whom Joash king of Israelmade war, and when he had beaten him in three battles, hetook from him all that country, and all those cities and villageswhich his father Hazael had taken from the kingdom of Israel,which came to pass however according to the prophecy of Eli­sha. But when Joash happened to die, he was buried in Sama­ria, and the government devolved on his son Jeroboam. CHAP. IX. Haw Amaziah made an expedition against the Edamites andAmalekites, and conquered them ,- but when he afterwards madeWar against Joash, he was beaten, and not long after wasslain, and Uzziah succeeded in the government. § 1. JN ow in the second year of the reign of Joash over Is­rael, Amaziah reigned over the tribe of Judah at JerusalemHis mother's name was Jehohaddan, who was born at Jerusalem. He was exceeding careful in doing what was right, andthis when he was very young; but when he came to the man­agement of affairs, and to the government, he resolved thathe ought first of all to avenge his father Jehoash, and to punishthose his friends that had laid violent hands upon him; so heseized upon them all, and put them to death, yet did he executeno severity on their children, but acted therein according to thelaws of Moses, who did not think it just to punish children forthe sins of their fathers. After this he chose him an army outof the tribe of Judah and Benjamin of such as were in theflower of their age, and about twenty years old; and when hehad collected about three hundred thousand of them together, heset captains of hundreds over them. He also sent to the king ofIsrael, and hired an hundred thousand of his soldiers for an hun­dred talents of silver, for he had resolved to make an expeditionagainst the nations of the Amalekites, and Edomites, and Geba-lites: But as he was preparing for his expedition, and ready togo out to the war, a prophet gave him counsel to dismiss thearmy of the Israelites, because they were bad men, and becauseGod foretold that he should be beaten, if he made use of them asauxiliaries; but that he should overcome his enemies, though hehad but a few soldiers, when it so pleased God. And when theking grudged at his having already paid the hire of the Israelites,the prophet exhorted him to do what God would have him, be­