OCR Output 200 LIVY. snare. He ordered two divisions of the confederateLatine horse to ride round the walls, and exploreevery particular. These horsemen observed one gate,and, at a little distance, another on the same side,standing wide open, and on the roads leading fromthese, every mark of the enemy having fled by night.They then rode up leisurely to the gates, from whencewith perfect safety they took a clear view throughstrait streets quite across the city. Returning to theconsul, they told him that the city was abandoned bythe enemy, as was plain from the solitude, the trackson their retreat, and the things which, in the confusionof the night, they had left scattered up and down.On hearing this, the consul led round the army to thatside of the city which had been examined, and, makingthe troops halt at a little distance from the gate, gave .orders that five horsemen should ride into the city ;and, when they should have advanced a good way intoit, then, if they saw all things safe, three should re­main there, and the other two return to him with in­telligence. These returned, and said that they hadproceeded to a part of the town from which they had aview on every side, and that nothing but silence andsolitude reigned through the whole extent of it. Theconsul immediately led some light-armed cohorts intothe city, ordering the rest to fortify a camp in themean time. The soldiers who entered the town, break­ing open the doors, found only a few persons disabledby age or sickness, and such effects remaining ascould not without difficulty be removed. These wereseized as plunder: and it was discovered from the pri­soners that several cities in that quarter had, in pur­suance of a concerted plan, resolved on flight; thattheir townspeople had gone off at the first watch, andthey believed that the same solitude would be foundin the other places. The accounts of the prisoner*proved well founded, and the consul took possessionof the forsaken towns. 35. The other consul, Marcus Atilins, met muchgreater difficulties in the war wherein he was engaged.