OCR Output SUEVT. SULCI. 1045 rprrly fixed, the Suetri were in the northern partth« diocese of Freju*. [G. I*.] Sl'fcVJ {lovSoi or 2oi/t)€oi), is the designationriTery large portion of the population of ancientnaoT, ami comprised a great number of separateIn with distinctive names of their own, such ase Srinnonea. German author* generally connecti name Suevi with Swiban, i. e. to sway, movetirariilf, and take it as a designation of the un-and nugatory habit* of the people, to dis-^■uiih then from the Ingaevones, who dwelt injyn or fixed habitations (Zeuss, Die Deutschen,other>. however, and apparently withud rnuui, regard the name as of Celtic or eveniiwian origin; for the Romans no doubt em-md the name!, not because indigenous in Ger-ot, but because they beard it from the CeltsGaol We must, however, from the first dia-ftub ktween the Suevi of Caesar (B. G. i. 37,, 54, iu. 7, ir. 1, &c.) and those of Tacitusms.38, &c-): the Suevi in Caesar occupied thefrm bonks of the Rhine, in and about tin- country« cii'hi Bade*, while Tacitus describes them us-ipjinjr, the country to the north and east of them ii Caesar, so that the two writers assign toeo quite a duTerent area of country. Strabo (vii.190) again states that in his time the Suevi ex-rial from the Khenus to the Albis. and that someMhii, fcuch as the Hermunduri and Longobardi,I aJranocd even to the north of the Albis.Either the nations called Suevi by Caetar andtiiiu are the same, and if so, what causes inducedin in later times to migrate to the north and east,i questions to which history furnishes no answers,a possible, however, that those whom Caesarwintered were only a branch of the great body,"tu^s Chatti and Longobardi. That these latterR pure Germans cannot be doubted , but thein <i Tacitus, extending from the Baltic to theifebe, and occupying the greater part of Germany,"ur>t contained many Celtic and still more Sta­ll elements. It has iu fact been conjectured,to gnat probability, that the name Suevi witspad to those tribes which were not pure Ger-but more or less mixed with Slavonians; for■ we can understand huw it happened that inir habits and mode of life they di tic red so widelyd the other Germans, as we see from Tacitus; andwuld also account for the fact that in later timessod Slavonians peaceably established in countriesiwusly occupied by Suevi. (Comp. PKn. iv. 28;Li.lL § 15; Oros. L 2.) It deserves to bewd that Tacitus (Germ. 2,45) calls all theitrj inhabited by Suevian tribes by the namei>ia. The name Suevi appcai-s to have beenwn to the Romans as early as B. c. 123 (Sisenna,.V(m s.e. lamcea), and they were at all times re-ied as a powerful and warlike people. Their■try was covered by mighty forest*, but townsf*U) also are tpoken of. (Caes. B. G. iv. 19.)Germany became better known to the Romans, theeric name Suevi fell mote and more into disuse,the separate tribes were called by their own*v although Ptolemy still applies the name ofti to the Semnones, Longobardi, and Angli.u tiie second half of the third century we againthe name Suevi limited to the country to whichad been applied by Caesar. (Amm. Marc. xvi.J maud. Get. 55; Tab. Peut.) These Suevi,I wbom the modern Suabia and the isuabiatu de-uW names, seem to have been a body of ad* venturers from various German tribes, who assumedthe ancient and illustrious name, which was as ap­plicable to them as it was to the Suevi of old.These later Suevi appear in alliance with the Ale-mannians and Burgundians, and in possession of theGerman side of Gaul, and Switzerland, and even inItaly and Spain, where they joined the Visigoths.Ricimer, who acts so prominent I part in the historyof the Roman empire, was a Suevian. (Comp. Zeuss,I. c.\ Wiihelm, Gcrmanim, p. 101, &c; Grimm,Deutsche Gram. i. pp. 8, 60. ii. p. 25, Gesch. dtrDevlschen Spr. i. p. 494; Latham, ou Tacit Germ.Epileg. p. lxxi.) [L. S.] SUEVICUM MARE, is the name given by Ta­citus (Germ. 45) to the Baltic Sea, which Ptolemycalls the 2apjum*cos 'Clxtavd? (vii. 5. § 2, viiL 10.§2.) [L.S.] SUFES a place in Byzacena (/fin. Ant. pp. 47,48, 49, 51, 55). Now Sbibaor SbiJtah. [T. H. I).]SUFE'TULA a town of Byaacene, 25 milesS. of Sufes. In its origin it seems to havebeen a later and smaller place than the latter,whence its name as a diminutive—little Sufes. Inprocess of time, however, it became a very con­siderable town, as it appears to have been the centrawhence all the roads leading into the interior radi­ated. Some vast and magnificent ruins, consistingof the remains of three temples, a triumphal arch,&c, at the present Sfaitla, which is seated on alofty plateau ou the right bank of the Wed Dtchmila,80 kilometres SW. of Kairwan, attest its ancientimportance. (See Shaw's Travels, p. 107; Pe-lissier, in Revue Archeol. July 1847.) [T. H. I).]SUIA CSuta. Staph. B. *. v.: Eth. Sutrfriff,Jufaft; 2v6a, Stadiusm, §§ 331,332), the harbourof Elyrus in Crete, 50 stadia to the VY. of Pocci-lassus, situated on a plain. It probabiy existed aslate as the time of Hierocles, though now entirelyuninhabited. Mr. Pashley (Traveh, vol. ii, p. 100)found remains of the city walls as well as otherpublic buildings, but not more ancient than thetime of the Roman Empire. Several tombs existresembling those of Hayhio Ky'rho; an aqueductis also remaining. [E. B. J.] SUILLUM [Hklvillum.]SUINDINUM. [Uknomaki.]SUIONES, are mentioned only by Tacitus {Germ.44) as the most northern of tho German tribe*,dwelling on an island iu the ocean. He was no doubtthinking of Scandia or Scandinavia: and Suiones un­questionably contains the root of the modern nameSweden and Swedes. [L. S.] SUISSA, a town in Armenia Minor (It. Ant.pp. 207, 216), where, according to the NotitiaImperii (p. 27), the Ala I. Ulpia Dscorum wasstationed ; but its site is now unknown. [L. S.] SU1SSATIUM (in PtoL 2oo«o-TdVio*', ii. 6.§ 65), a town of the Caristi in Hispania 'larra-coneusis. The Geogr. Rav. (iv. 45) calls it S-u-statium. It is the modern Vittvria. [T. II. I>]SULCI (SoAxoi, Sieph. B, PtoLj 2oCAxoi,Strab.;2uAfroi, Paus.: Eth. Sulcitanus: S. Antiucu), OfMof the most considerable cities of Sardinia, situatediu the SW. corner of the island, on a small island,now called I sola of* 5. Antioco, which is. however,joined to the mainland by a narrow isthmus orneck of sand. S. of this isthmus, between the islandand the mainland, is an extensive bay, now calledthe Golfo di Palmas, which was known in ancienttimes as tlie Sulcitanus Port us (PtoL). The found­ation of Sulci is expressly attributed to the Car; ha - 3x3