OCR Output 40 ANTIOJttTES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIf. yet were not the Jews daunted in their resolutions, even whenthey had the sight of that terrible slaughter that was made ofthem ; but they went round about, and got upon those cloisters,which encompassed the outer court of the temple, where a greatfight was still continued, and they cast stones at the Romans,partly with their hands, and partly with slings, as being muchused to those exercises. All the archers also in array did theRomans a great deal of mischief; because they used theirhands dextrously from a place superior to the others, and becausethe others were at an utter loss what to do; for when they triedto shoot their arrows against the Jews upwards, these arrowscould not reach them, insomuch that the Jews were easily toohard for their enemies. And this sort of fight lasted a greatwhile, till at last the Romans, who were greatly distressed by whatwas done, set fire to the cloisters so privately, that those whowere gotten upon them did not perceive it. This fire * beingfed by a great deal of combustible matter, caught hold imme­diately on the roof of the cloisters ; so the wood, which was full ofpitch and wax, and whose gold was laid on it with wax, yieldedto the flame presently, and those vast works which were of thehighest value and esteem, were destroyed utterly, while those thatwere on the roof unexpectedly perished at the same time ; for asthe roof tumbled down, some of these men tumbled down withit, and others of them were killed by their enemies who encom­passed them. There was a great number more, who, out of de­spair of saving their lives, and out of astonishment at the mise­ry that surrounded them, did either cast themselves into the fire,or threw themselves upon their own swords, and so got out oftheir misery. But as to those that retired behind the same wayby which they ascended, and thereby escaped, they were all kill­ed by the Romans, as being unarmed men, and their couragefailing them ; their wild fury being now not able to help them,because they were destitute of armour, insomuch that, of thosethat wen-t up to the top of the roof, not one escaped. The Ro­mans also rushed through the fire, where it gave them room soto do, and seized on that treasure where the sacred money wasreposited ; a great part of which was stolen by the soldiers, andSabinus got openly four hundred talents. 3. But this calamity of the Jews friends, who fell in this battle,grieved them, as did also this plundering of the money dedicated to God * These great devastations made about the temple here, and of the War, B.II. ch. Hi. J 3. seem uot to have been fully re-edified in the days of Nero; nilwhose time there were 18,000 workmen continually employed in rebuilding andrepairing that temple, as Josephus informs us, Antig. B. XX. ch. ix. j 7. Se« &»note on that place.