OCR Output 370 Liw. the enemy, he sent up reinforcements as occasion re*quired. 16. About the time that Quintius first pitched hiscamp opposite to Philip's, and at the entrance of Epi-rus, Lucius, the consul's brother, whom the senate hadcommissioned both to the naval command and to thegovernment of the coast, sailed over with two quinque-remes to Corcyra; and when he learned that the fleethad departed thence, thinking any delay improper, hefollowed, and overtook it at the island of Zama. Herehe dismissed Luci us Apustius, in whose room he had beenappointed, and then proceeded to Ma lea, but at a slowrate, being obliged, for the most part, to tow the vesselswhich accompanied him with provisions. From Malea,after ordering the rest to follow with all possible expe足dition, himself, with three light quinqueremes, hastenedforward to the Piraeus, and took under his command theships left there by Lucius Apustius, lieutenant-general,for the protection of Athens. At the same time two fleetsset sail from Asia; one of twenty-four quinqueremes,under king Attalus; the other belonging to the Rhodians,consisting of twenty decked ships, and commanded byAgesimbrotus. These fleets, joining near the island ofAndros, sailed for Euboea, to reach which place theyhad only to cross a narrow channel. They first ravagedthe lands belonging to Carystus ; but, judging that citytoo strong, in consequence of a reinforcement hastilysent from Chalcis, they bent their course to Eretria.Lucius Quintius also, on hearing of the arrival of kingAttalus, came thither with the ships which had lain atthe Pirasus, having left orders that his own shipsshould as they arrived foll6w him to Euboea. Thesiege of Eretria was now pushed forward with the ut足most vigor; for the three combined fleets carried ma足chines and engines of all sorts, for the demolition oftowns, and the adjacent country offered abundance oftimber for the construction of new works. At the be足ginning the townsmen defended themselves with agood degree of spirit; afterwards, when they felt theeffects of fatigue, a great many being likewise wounded,