OCR Output CHAP. X-LVII. 21 of the monks; and the people were interested in the gloryof their virgin patroness.1" The sermons of the archbi­shop, and the service of the altar, were disturbed by se­ditious clamour; his authority and doctrine were re­nounced by separate congregations; every wind scatter­ed round lie empire the leaves of controversy; and thevoice of the combatants on a sonorous theatre re-echoedin the cells of Palestine and Egypt. It was the duty of Cy­ril to enlighten the zeal and ignorance of his innumerablemonks; in the school of Alexandria, he had imbibed andprofessed the incarnation of one nature: and the suc­cessor of Athanasius consulted his pride and ambition,when he rose in arms against another Arius, more for­midable and more guilty, on the second throne of thehierarchy. After a short correspondence, in which therival prelates disguised their hatred in the hollow lan­guage of respect and charity, the patriarch of Alexan­dria denounced to the prince and people, to the eastand to the west, the damnable errors of the Byzantinepontiff. From the east, more especially from Antioch,he obtained the ambiguous counsels of toleration andsilence, which were addressed to both parties whilethey favoured the cause of Nestorius. But the Vaticanreceived with open arms the messengers of Egypt.The vanity of Celestine was flattered by the appeal;and the partial version of a monk decided the faith ofthe pope, who, with his Latin clergy, was ignorant ofthe language, the arts, and the theology of the Greeks.At the head of an Italian synod, Celestine weighed themerits of the cause, approved the creed of Cyril, con­demned the sentiments and person of Nestorius, de­graded the heretic from his episcopal dignity, alloweda respite of ten days for recantation and penance, anddelegated to his enemy the execution of this rash andillegal sentence. But the patriarch of Alexandria,whilst he darted the thunders of a god, exposed the P See Ducangc, C. P. Christiana, lib, 1. p. SO, &c.