OCR Output 252 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. Nola. 89. modest Paelignian country-town of Corfinium; the remnantof the Italian senate fled to the Samnite territory.Subjugation The Roman southern army, which was now under theof Campa- command of Lucius Sulla, had at the same time assumedk%T &r ** ^e on?ensive snd had penetrated into southern Campaniawhich was occupied by the enemy. Stabiae was taken anddestroyed by Sulla in person (30 April 665) and Hercu-laneum by Titus Didius, who however fell himself (11 June)apparently at the assault on that city. Pompeii resistedlonger. The Samnite general Lucius Clueutius came up tobring relief to the town, but he was repulsed by Sulla; andwhen, reinforced by bands of Celts, he renewed his attempt,he was, chiefly owing to the wavering of these untrust­worthy associates, so totally defeated that his camp wastaken and he himself was cut down with the greater part ofhis troops in their flight towards Nola. The grateful Romanarmy conferred on its general the grass-wreath—the homelybadge with which the usage of the camp decorated thesoldier who had by his energy saved a division of his com­rades. Without pausing to undertake the siege of Nolaand of the other Campanian towns still occupied by theSamnites, Sulla at once advanced into the interior, whichwas the head-quarters of the insurrection. The speedy cap­ture and fearful punishment of JEclanum spread terrorthroughout the Hirpinian country; it submitted even beforethe arrival of the Lucanian contingent which had set itselfin motion to render help, and Sulla was able to advanceunhindered as far as the territory of the Samnite confederacy.The pass, where the Samnite militia under Mutilus awaitedhim, was turned, the Samnite army was attacked in rear, anddefeated; the camp was lost, the general escaped woundedto ^sernia. Sulla advanced to Bovianum, the capital of theSamnite country, and compelled it to surrender by a secondvictory obtained beneath its walls. The advanced seasonalone put an end to the campaign there. The position of affairs had undergone a most completechange. Powerful, victorious, aggressive as was the insur­es, rection when it began the campaign of 665, it emerged fromit deeply humbled, everywhere beaten, and totally hopeless.All northern Italy was pacified. In central Italy bothcoasts were wholly in the Roman power, and the Abruzzialmost entirely; Apulia as far as Venusia, and Campania asfar as Nola, were in the hands of the Romans; and by the Sulla inSamniura. The insur­rection onthewholeover­powered.