OCR Output JtjO THE DECLINE AND FALL rights of a citiaen. In the general consternation, the Caesar John asserted the in­defeasible right of his three nephews: Constantinople listened to his voice; and theTurkish captive was proclaimed in the capital, and received on the frontier, as anenemy of the republic. Romanus was not more fortunate in domestic than in fo­reign war: the loss of two battles compelled him to yield, on the assurance of fairand honourable treatment; but his enemies were devoid of faith or humanity; and,after the cruel extinction of his sight, his wounds were left to bleed and corrupt,till in a few days.he was relieved from a state of misery. Under the triple reignof the house of Ducas, the two younger brothers were reduced to the vain honoursof the purple; but the eldest, the pusillanimous Michael, was incapable of sustain­ing the Roman sceptre; and his surname of Sdrafiinaces denotes the reproachwhich he shared with an avaricious favourite, who enhanced the price, and di­minished the measure of wheat. In the school of Pselhis, and after the exampleof his mother: the son of Eudocia made some proficiency in philosophy and rheto­ric; but his character was degraded, rather than ennobled, by the virtues of amonk, and the learning o'f a sophist. Strong in the contempt of their sovereignand their own esteem, two generals at the head of the European and Asiatic le­gions assumed the purple at Adrianople and Nice. Their revolt was in the samemonth; they bore the same name of Nicephorus; but the two candidates were dis­tinguished by the surnames of Bryennius and Botaniates; the former in the matu­rity of wisdom and courage, 'the latter conspicuous only by the memory of his pastexploits. While Botaniates advanced with cautious and dilatory steps, his activecompetitor stood in arms before the gates of Constantinople. The name of Bry­ennius was illustrious; his cause was popular; but his licentious troops could not berestrained from burning and pillaging a suburb; and the people, who would havehailed the rebel, rejected and repulsed the incendiary of his country. This changeof the public opinion was favourable to Botaniates, who at length, with an army ofTurks, approached the shores of Chalcedon. A formal invitation, in the name ofthe patriarch, the synod, and the senate, was circulated through the streets ofConstantinople; and the general assembly, in the dome of St. Sophia, debated withorder and calmness, on the choice of their sovereign. The guards of Michaelwould have dispersed this unarmed multitude; but the feeble emperor, applaudinghis own moderation and clemency, resigned the ensigns of royalty, and was re­warded with a monastic habit, and the title of archbishop of Ephesus. He left ason, a Constantine, born and educated in the purple; and a daughter of the houseof Ducas illustrated the blood, and confirmed the succession of the Comneniandynasty. John Comnerius, the brother of the emperor Isaac, survived in peace and dig­nity his generous refusal of the sceptre. By his wife Anne, a woman of masculinespirit and policy, he left eight children; the three daughters multiplied the Com­nenian alliances with the noblest of the Greeks; of the five sons, Manuel wasstopped by a premature death; Isaac and Alexius restored the imperial greatnessof their house, which was enjoyed without toil or danger by the two younger bre­thren, Adrian and Nicephorus. Alexius, the third and most illustrious of thebrothers, was endowed by nature with the choicest gifts both of mind and body:they were cultivated by a liberal education, and exercised in the school of obedi­ence and adversity. The youth was dismissed from the perils of the Turkishwar, by the paternal care of the emperor Romanus; but the mother of the Com-peni, with her aspiring race, was accused of treason, and banished by the sons ofDucas, to an island in the Propontis. The two brothers soon emerged into favourand action, fought by each other's side against the rebels and barbarians, and ad­hered to the emperor Michael, till he was deserted by the world and by himself.In his first interview with Botaniates, " Prince (said Alexius, with a noble frank­ness,) my duty rendered me your-enemy; the decrees of God and of the peoplehave made me your subject. Judge of my future loyalty by my past opposition."The successor of Michael entertained him with esteem and confidence: his valourwas employed against three rebels, who disturbed the peace of the emperor, or atleast of the emperors, Ursel, Bryennius, and Basilacius, were formidable by theirnumerous forces and military fame: they were successively vanquished in the field,and led in chains to the foot of the throne; and whatever treatment they might re­ceive from a timid and cruel court, they applauded the clemency, as well as thecourage of the conqueror. But the loyalty of the Comneni was soon tainted byfear and suspicion; nor is it easy to settle between a subject and a despot, the debtof gratitude, which tne former is tempted to claim by a revolt, and the latter to