OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 59 founders. In the most abject state of ignorance, poverty,and servitude, the Nestorians and Monophysites rejectthe spiritual supremacy of Rome, and cherish the tole­ration of their Turkish masters, which allows them toanathematize; on one hand, St. Cyril and the synodof Ephesus; on the other, pope Leo and the council ofChalcedon. The weight which they cast into the down-fal of the eastern empire demands our notice; and thereader may be amused with the various prospects of,I. The Nestorians. II. The Jacobites." III. The Maro-nite.s. IV. The Armenians. V. The Copts; and, VI.The Abyssinians. To the three former, the Syriac iscommon; but of the latter, each is discriminated by theuse of a national idiom. Yet the modern natives ofArmenia and Abyssinia would be incapableof conversingwith their ancestors; and the Christians of Egypt andSyria, who reject the religion, have adopted the language,of the Arabians. The lapse of time has seconded thesacerdotal arts; and in the east, as well as in the west,the Deity is addressed in an obsolete tongue, unknownto the majority of the congregation. I. Both in his native and his episcopal pro-vince, the heresy of the unfortunate Nestoriuswas speedily obliterated. The oriental bishops,who at Ephesus had resisted to his face the arroganceof Cyril, were mollified by his tardy concessions. Thesame prelates, or their successors, subscribed, not with­out a murmur, the decrees of Chalcedon: the powerof the Monophysites reconciled them with the Catho­lics in the conformity of passion, of interest, and insen­sibility of belief; and their last reluctant sigh wasbreathed in the defence of the three chapters. Theirdissenting brethren, less moderate or more sincerej "On the account of the Honophysites and Nestorians, I am deeply indebted tothe Bibliotheca OrientaUs Clementine- Vaticana of Joseph Simon Assemannus.That learned Maronite was dispatched in the year 1715, by pope Clement XI. to»isit the monasteries of Egypt and Syiia in search of MSS. His four folio volumespublished at Ronvs in 1719—1728, contain a part only, though perhaps the mostvaloabla, of his extensive project. As a nativ« and as a scholar he possessed theSyriac literature; and, though a dependant of Rome, he wished to be moderateand candid.