OCR Output 9* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. CHAP. LIV. Sexttts admitted into the Gabinian council. Gabii reduced. PON this he was admitted into the council of state,where, with respect to other matters, he said he wouldyield to the old counsellors of the Gabini, as they hadaccess to know more about them; but with respect to thewar, which he took every opportunity of advising, hepretended to be a better judge, being intimately acquaint足ed with the resources of both nations: and, moreover,such was the intolerable pride of the Roman king, thatit not only subjected him to the odium of the people, butto the aversion of his own family. As he thus insensibly stirred up the Gabini to renewthe war, he went in person, with the most alert of theiryouth, upon pillaging; parties; and, in all his words andactions, acted his part so much to the life, that his creditwith the Gabini was quite established. Insomuch, thatat last, he was chosen general, to prosecute the war.Upon this, some skirmishes happened, between the peo足ple of Gabii and Rome, in which, for the most part,the Gabini had the better, who never yet could discoverthe cheat; but, from the highest to the lowest, werepositive to a man, that Sextus Tarquinius had' been sentthem by the gods to. lead them on to victory. Amongthe soldiers too, the cheerfulness with which he exposedhimself to the dangers and fatigues of war, and the ge足nerosity he discovered in dividing the plunder, so endear足ed him to the soldiers, that Tarquin had no more to sayat Rome, than he had at Gabii. Therefore, when he sawthat he could be sufficiently Supported for any attempt,he dispatches one of his confidents to Rome, to ask hisfather, what were his futther commands, for the gods hadgiven him an unlimited power at Gabii. To this message, the king, 1 suppose, diffident of thefidelity of the bearer, returned him no answer in words,but as if he had meant to consider of the matter walkedinto the garden, whither his son's messenger followedhim. As he walked in the garden for some time insilence, he struck off, it is said, the heads of the tallest