OCR Output OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA. 475 i! hind its bum. (Strab. xii. pp. 571, 576.)TV inhibiunto of the district were called OlympeniCOlinnia, Smb. xii. p. 574; Ptol. v. 2. § 15) orfcaaa (tokqnrnirof, Herod, vii. 74; comp.tau). [L. S.] KTWU (i 'OAuurfa), the temple and sacredj-w/Zm oirapius, situated at a small distancere: Pia in Peloponnesus. It originally belongedu F it, uj the plain, in which it stood, was calledr Mfl morat limes the plain of Pisa; but afterti»j-tmriMi of this city by the Eleians in n. c. 572,Ik sue of Otympii was extended to the whole dis­ci. Anils tie temple of Zens Olympius, there«m mail other sacred edifices and public buildingsa tv ami trove and iu immediate neighbourhood;!:••:-» ru no distinct town of Olympia.Tta plain of Olympia is open towards the sea onfc nst, but is surroanded on every other side by14 rf » rrejl heieht, yet in many places abruptai jnaprtoos. Their surface presents a series of»x6 tiii of light yellow colour, covered with theJ* it, ud other evergreens. On entering the»u« fnm the west, the most conspicuous object is1144 and nearly insulated eminence rising on the■fii inn tbe level plain in the form of an irregularga (Mure, vol iL p. 281.) This is Mountfcm:u.orihe hill of Cronos, which is frequentlygbd it fWir ami other ancient writers. (*aj)'»*W tfirut, Pind. 01 i. Ill; wcryor KpdVou,n. 49; itynXoio vcrpa aXiSaros Kpoviov, OLl«) Uik iV airi* &x6or, Lycophr. 42; i■""si.Xeu. UelL vii. 4. § 14; t6 ipos rb Kpi-I* IW v. 21. § J, vL 19. § 1, vi. 20. § 1;l& § 14.) The range of hills to which it»tilled by most modern writers the Olym-thi authority of a passage of Xenophon.Pa >i t j M). Leake, however, supposes'i* oiymptu hill alluded to in this passage«ter than Cronios itself; but it would'■ litt the common opinion is correct, sinceI'il p. J36) describes Pisa as lying be-tl* two mountains Olympus and Ossa. The'iii bound the plain on the south, are higherridge, and, like the latter, are coveredwith the exception of one bare sum-about half a mile from the Alpheius.** the ancient Typakus (Twcuop), from»ho frequented the Olympic games,the river on forbidden davs, were con-«!obf hnrled headlong. (Paus. v. 6. § 7.)"^f* of hills closes the vale of Olympia to**i at tie foot of which runs the rivulet ofOn the west the vale was bounded by the(KAaJwj), which flowed from north to•j*; the tide of the sacred grove, and fell into"saass, (Psns. t. 7. § 1; KAolSooi, Xen. HeU.}W.) This river rises at Lata in MountThe Alpheius, which flows along the south-^ 4 the plain, constantly changes its course,Med beneath the new alluvi.it plain, orthe river, all the remains of buildings andvhieh stood in the southern part of ther"we. In winter the Alpheius is full, rapid,□ summer it is scanty, and divided intoP avRats flowing between islands or sand-» «ide gravelly bed. The vale ofl» » sow called Attdilalo (i. e. opposite to|ad a ranhabited. The soil is naturally■ i»B«pT hi part, owing to the inundations"Of the numerous buildings and count-vhich once covered this sacred spot, the only remains are those of the temple of ZeusOlympius. Pausanias has devoted nearly two books,and one fifth of his whole work, to the description ofOlympia; but he does not enumerate the buildingsin their exact topographical order : owing to this cir­cumstance, to the absence of ancient remains, and tothe changes'in the surface of the soil by the fluc­tuations in the course of the Alpheius, the topo­graphy of the plain must be to a great extent con­jectural. The latest and most able attempt toelucidate this subject, is that of Colonel Leake iu hisPebponnesiaca, whose description is here chieflyfollowed. Olympia lay partly within and partly outside ofthe Sacred Grove. This Sacred Grove bore fromthe most ancient times the name of Altis (y"AAtii), which is the Peloponnesian Aeolic form of&\tros. (Paus. v. 10. § 1.) It was adorned withtrees, and in its centre there was a grove of planes,(Paus. v. 27. § 11.) Pindar likewise describes itas well wooded (ITtcrav tt/Stytipov *V 'AAipc'oj &\aost01. viii. 12). The space of the Altis was measuredout by Hercules, and was surrounded by this herowith a wall. (Piud. 01. xi. 44.) On the west itran along the Cladcus; on the south its directionmay be traced by a terrace raised above the Al­pheius; on the east it was bounded by the stadium.There were several gates in the wall, but the prin­cipal one, through which all the processions passed,was situated in the middle of the western side, andwas called the Pompic Entrance (t? no/xwuc?? tfaoo'oy,Paus. v. 15. § 2). From this gate, a road, calledthe Pompic Way, ran across the Altis, and enteredthe stadium by a gateway on the eastern side. 1. The Olympieium, Olympium, or temple of ZeusOlympius. An oracle of the Olympian god existedon this spot from the most ancient times (Strab.viii. p. 353), and here a temple was doubtless built,even before the Olympic games became a Pan-Hel­lenic festival. But after the conquest of Pisa andthe surrounding cities by the Eleians in b. c. 572,the latter determined to devote the spoils of theconquered cities to the erection of a new and splen­did temple of the Olympian god. (Paus. v. 10.§§ 2, 3.) The architect was Libon of Elis. Thetemple was not, however, finished till nearly a centuryafterwards, at the period when the Attic school ofart was supreme in Greece, and the Parthenon onthe Athenian Acropolis had thrown into the shadeall previous works of art. Shortly after the dedi­cation of the Parthenon, the Eleians invited Phei-dias and his school of artists to remove to Elis, andadorn the Olympian temple in a manner worthy ofthe king of the gods. Pheidias probably remainedat Olympia for four or five years from about B. c.437 to 434 or 433. The colossal statue of Zeus inthe cells, and the figures in the pediments of thetemple were executed by Pheidias and his associ­ates. The pictorial embellishments were tbe workof his relative Panaenus. (Strab. viii. p. 354)[Comp. Diet of Bioyr. Vol. III. p. 248.] Pausaniashas given a minute description of the temple (v. 10);and its site, plan, and dimensions have been well as­certained by the excavations of the French Commis­sion of the Morea. The foundations are now exposedto view ; and several fine fragments of the sculp­tures, representing the labours of Hercules, are nowin the museum of the Louvre. The temple stood inthe south-western portion of the Altis, to the righthand of the Pompic entrance. It was built of thenative limestone, which Pausanias called poros, and