OCR Output 3Q2 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLHI, The conspirators were detected and seized, with daggershidden under their garments: Marcellus died by his ownhand, and Sergius was dragged from the sanctuary."Pressed by remorse, or tempted by the hopes of safety, heaccused two officers of the household of Belisarius; andtorture forced them to declare that they had acted accord­ing to the secret instructions of their patron.* Posteritywill not hastily believe that a hero, who, in the vigourof life, had disdained the fairest offers of ambition andrevenge, should stoop to the murder of his prince, whomhe could not long expect to survive. His followers wereimpatient to fly; but flight must have been supportedby rebellion, and he had lived enough for nature and forglory. Belisarius appeared before the council with lessa. n. 563, fear than indignation: after forty years' service, the em-Dec'5' peror had prejudged his guilt; and injustice was sancti­fied by the presence and authority of the patriarch. - Thelife of Belisarius was graciously spared; but his fortuneswere sequestered, and from December to July he wasguarded as a prisoner in his own palace. At length hisa. d. 564, innocence was acknowledged; his freedom and honours,tl!y 19, Were restored; and death, which might be hastenedby resentment and grief, removed him from the worlda. d. 565. about eight months after his deliverance. The name oflaro 13. geusarius can never ;DUt instead of the funeral, the monuments, the statues, so justly due to his memory,I only read, that his treasures, the spoils of the Gothsand Vandals, were immediately confiscated by the em­peror. Some decent portion was reserved, however, forthe use of his widow; and as Antonina had much torepent, she devoted the last remains of her life and for­tune to the foundation of a convent. Such is the sim­ple and genuine narrative of the tall of Belisarius andthe ingratitude of Justinian.7 That he was deprived u The Sergius (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 21, 22. Anecdot. c. 5.) and Marcellus (Goth. lib.3. c. 32.) are mentioned by Procopins. See Theophanes, p. 197. 201. * Alemannus (p. 3.) quotes an old Byzantine MS. which has been printad in theIniperium Orientate of Banduri. J Of the disgrace and restoration of Belisarius, the genuine original record is pr»­