OCR Output CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 215 absence of the consuls a proper opportunity for intro­ducing the claims of the tribunes, had for some daysbeen inveighing against the pride of the senators beforethe people, and particularly against the consular power astoo despotic and intolerable in a free state; representing,"That it differed from regal despotism only in name,"for in effect it had in it something still more odious."That instead of one king, they had got two, whose"power was boundless and immoderate; and being"themselves neither confined nor restrained by any law,turned the whole terror and severity of the laws againstthe common people. That this licentiousness mightnot be perpetual, he intended to prefer a bill for get­ting five commissioners appointed to draw up laws forregulating the consular authority. That in conse­quence, the consul should have no other right overthe people, than the people themselves should thinkproper to give them; nor substitute their own passionand caprice in place of law."This law being proposed, the Patricians were not alittle afraid, that in the absence of the consuls this yokemight be wreathed about their necks, when Q. Fabiusassembled the senate as governor of the city. There hegave full scope to his indignation, in inveighing againstthe bill and its author, insomuch, that had both consulsbeen present, determined to pull the tribune to pieces,they could not have opened on him with greater fury,or employed more dreadful menaces. "This fellow,"(says he,) lies in wait, and takes advantage of the ab-"sence of the consuls, to strike a blow against the com-«* monwealth. Had the gods in their wrath, only the"year before, given Rome such a tribune, in the midsr."of the plague and the war, his villainy might havebeen then triumphant. The two- consuls being nomore, and the city labouring in siekness and generalconfusion, he would have proposed the abolition ofthe consulship, and placed himself at the head of the/l''.qui and Volsci to attack the city. What can heplead in excuse for such licentiousness? If the consuls,in the abuse of their authority, oppressed any citizen,"th«y might be cited before the people, at whose tri-•* bonal they were obliged to answer; and of this onler,"the complainant himself is a member. Proceeding