OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 14Q The Moorish war continued several years after the de­parture of Belisarius; but the laurels which he resigned toa faithful lieutenant, may be justly ascribed to his owntriumph. The experience of past faults, which may sometimescorrect the mature age of an individual, is seldom pro- Neutralityfitable to the successive generations of mankind. The goths.nations of antiquity, careless of each other's safety, wereseparately vanquished and enslaved by the Romans.This awful lesson might have instructed the barbariansof the west to oppose, with timely counsels and confede­rate arms, the unbounded ambition of Justinian. Yetthe same error was repeated, the same consequenceswere felt, and the Goths, both of Italy and Spain, insen­sible of their approaching danger, beheld with indiffer­ence, and even with joy, the rapid downfal of the Van­dals. After the failure of the royal line, Theudes, a va­liant and powerful chief, ascended the throne of Spain,which he had formerly administered in the name ofTheodoric, and his infant grandson. Under his com­mand, the Visigoths besieged the fortress of Ceuta onthe African coast: but, while they spent the sabbath-day in peace and devotion, the pious security of theircamp was invaded by a sally from the town; and theking himself, with some difficulty and danger, escapedfrom the hands of a sacrilegious enemy.1 It was notlong before his pride and resentment were gratified by asuppliant embassy from the unfortunate Gelimer, whoimplored, in his distress, the aid of the Spanish monarch.But, instead of sacrificing these unworthy passions to thedictates of generosity and prudence, Theudes amusedthe ambassadors, till he was secretly informed of the lossof Carthage, and then dismissed them with obscure andcontemptuous advice, to seek in their native country a * Isidor. Cbron. p. 722. edit. Grot. Mariana, Hist. Hispan. lib. 5. c. 8. p. 173.Yet according to Isidore, the siege of Ceuta, and the death of Theudes, happened,A. M. H. 586. A< D. 548. and the place was defended, not by the Vandals, bnt by theRomans.