OCR Output 286 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. sus and the Caspian Sea; Thracians, Scythians, Sauromatae,Bastarnae, Colchians, Iberians (in the modern Georgia)crowded under his banners; above all he recruited his war-hosts from the brave Bastarnae. For his fleet the satrapyof Colchis supplied him with the most excellent timber,which was floated down from the Caucasus, besides flax, hemp,pitch, and wax; pilots and officers were hired in Phoeniciaand Syria. The king, it was said, had marched into Cappa-docia with 600 scythe-chariots, 10,000 horse, and 80,000foot; and he had by no means mustered for this war all hisresources. In the absence of any Roman or other navalpower worth mentioning, the Pontic fleet, with Sinope andthe ports of the Crimea as its rallying points, had exclusivecommand of the Black Sea.The Romans During these aggressions on all sides and the formation ofand Mithra. this imposing power,—the development of which occupieddates. perhaps a period of twenty years—the Soman senate was a patient on-looker. It was passive, while one of its depend­ent states became developed into a great military power,having at command more than a hundred thousand armedmen; while the ruler of that state entered into the closestconnection with the new Great king of the East who wasplaced partly by his aid at the head of the states in theinterior of Asia; while he annexed the neighbouring Asiatickingdoms and principalities under pretexts, which soundedalmost like a mockery of the ill-informed and far distantprotecting power; while, in fine, he even established himselfin Europe and ruled as king over the Tauric peninsula, andas lord-protector almost to the Macedono-Thracian fron­tier. These circumstances indeed formed the subject ofdiscussion in the senate; but when the illustrious corpo­ration consoled itself in the affair of the Paphlagonian suc­cession with the fact that Mithradates appealed to thetestament and Nicomedes to his Pseudo-Pylaemenes, it wasevidently not so much deceived as grateful for any pretextwhich spared it from interference. Meanwhile the com­plaints became daily more numerous and more urgent.The princes of the Tauric Scythians, whom Mithradates haddriven from the Crimea, turned for help to Rome; those ofthe senators who at all reflected on the traditional maximsof Roman policy could not but recollect that formerly, undercircumstances so wholly different, the crossing of kingAntiochus to Europe and the occupation of the Thracian