OCR Output PATAV11TM.PATRAE. 5.57 erimei city at Venice (Gibbon, cli. 35, note41.) tot Pstsvium did not teas* to exist, andawl bsie psrtially at least recovered from thisokoitr, is it is mentioned as one of the chief townsaffartuwbfD that province was overrun by thebotami osier Alboin, in A.D. 568. (P. Duo.fat Lmg. a. 14.) It did not fall into the handsi istt feopi- till now 40 years afterwards,laaana taken by Agilulf, kin; of the Lonvbi ud barot to the ground. (Id. iv. 24.) Butjtosorcwr* me from its ashes, and in the middlelp> aeaia became, as it has continued ever since,4* tt Ux man considerable cities in this part ofJa*. tioogl no longer enjoying its ancient prc- k a prokaW; nwing to the calamities thus sufferedtinsm, as well as to the earthquakes by whichbees repeatedly visited, that it has nowr ssy relics of its ancient splendour, except anations: and even these are mnch less nu­tans might have been expected. One ofi preserved with great care in the town-hall; the name of T. Liviua, which has beenI to refer to the great historian of the name,basa nil known, was a native of I'ataviurn.(Ail is dearly a mistake; the inscription ini refers only to an obscure freedman; nor ist slightest foundation for regarding the sar-i fmtrrred with it as the tomb of the cele-snao. (Biogr. Diet. Vol. II. p. 790.)t the supposition was more plausible thanI assigns another ancient sarcophagus■a 1274, and still preserved in theI sf 5. Lorenz-j) as the sepulchre of Antenor!Itfctkf sarcophagi and inscriptions, the found-buildings have been discovered in> ktfts of the modem city, but nothing nowi* ground. was the birth place also of Thrasca• was put to death by Nero in A. r». 6G.oases of offence which he had given was; as a tragedian in certain games, whichat Pabrviam every 30 yean* inAatsawr, a custom said to be derived fromfssiBjueis of the city. (Tac. Ann. xvi.I Cass. lxiL 26.) We learn also from Livyat tin* the memory of the defeat of theI Chewymus was preserved by an annualest toe river which flowed through the(Liv.x.2.) [E.H.B.]aimi illa-jjuui'i. a town of Bilhynia"of Lake Aacania, between the Sinusawl the Sinus Cianus. (I'tol. v. 1. [L.S.1 town on the K. <■ i • of the, mettfiooed only in the Itineraryi (p. 114); from which we learn that itL 37 mile* from Roscianam {Roxsano),tW Mtghboarnood of the Capo deW*e*»t Cmpe Crimissa: hut the suppo-L l m the same place with the more an-f d Crimtaaa is a ruere conjecture; as is, with the modern town of Cird,14 Pal era am again ocenrs in early eccle-the see of a bishop, but after-(Holiten. Sot ad Cluv.toL I p. 213.) [E. H. B.][TiBiscus-](Anunian, xxiii. 6), one of themmtittned by Ammianus Mar-Thia place is nowhere else noticed; but it is not impossible that the name is abarbarous corruption of the Tigrana of Ptolemy(vi. 2. § 9). [V.] PATMOS (IlaT^tiy: Patmo), one of the SporaiiesInsulae, in the south-east of the Aegean, to the westof Lepsia and south of Samoa, is said to have been30 Roman miles in circumference. (Pliny, iv. 23;Strab.x. p. 488; Thucyd. iii. 23; Eustath. ad D'wn.Per. 530.) On the north-eastern side of the islandthere was a town with a harbour of the same nameas the island, and the southernmost point formed thepromontory Amazonium (Stadia&m. Mar. Mag. p.488, ed. Hoffmann). This little island is celebratedas the place to which St John was banished towardsthe close of the reign of Domitian, and where he issaid to have composed the Apocalypse {Revel, i. 9).A cave is still shown in Patmos where the apostle isbelieved to have received his revelations. (Com p.Iren. ii. 22; Euseb. Hist Eccl iii. 18; Dion Cass,lviii. 1.) The island contains several churches andconvents, and a few remains of the ancient town andits castle. (Walpole, Turkey torn. ii. p. 43; Ross,Reisen auf den Gricch. Inseln, vol. ii. p. 123,foil.) [L. S.] PATRAE (Tldrpcu; in Herod, i. 145, Harpies,properly the name of the inhabitants: Eth. Tlarpevs,Thuc.; Tlarpaievs, Pol. iv. 6; Patrensis: Patrasso.Patras, Patra), a town of Achaia, and one of thetwelve Achaean cities, was situated on the coast, W.of the promontory Rhium, near the opening of theCorinthian gulf. (Herod, i. 145; Pol. ii. 41; Strab.viii. p. 386.) It stood on one of the outlying spurs ofMount PanachaYcus ( Voidhid), which rises imme­diately behind it to the height of 6322 feet. It issaid to have been formed by an union of three smallplaces, named Aroe ('Aporj), Antheia ( AvOaa), andMesatis (Mefforij), which had been founded by theIonians, when they were in the occupation of thecountry. After the expulsion of the Ionians, theAchaean hero Patreus withdrew the inhabitants fromAntheia and Mesatis to Aroe, which he enlarged andcalled Patrae after himself. The acropolis of thecity probably continued to bear the name of Aroe,which was often used as synonymous with Patrae.Strabo says that Patrae was funned by a coalescenceof seven demi; but this statement perhaps refers tothe restoration of the town mentioned below, (paus.lit 18. §2, seq.; Strab. viii. p. 337.) In the Pelopon-nesian War Patrae was the only one of the Achaeancities which espoused the Athenian cause; and inb,a 419, the inhabitants were persuaded by Alci-biades to connect their city by means of long wallswith its port. (Thuc. v. 52; Pint Ale. 15.) Afterthe death of Alexander the city fell into the handsof Cassander, but his troops were driven out of it byAristodemus, the general of Antigonus, n.c. 314.(Diod. xix. 66.) In n.c. 280 Patrae and Dyme werethe first two Achaean cities which expelled the Mace­donians, and their example being shortly afterwardsfollowed by Tritaeaand Pharae, tbe.Achaean Leaguewas renewed by these four towns. [See Vol. I.p. 15.] In the following year (b.c. 279) Patrae wasthe only one of the Achaean cities which sent as­sistance to the Actolians, when their country wasinvaded by the Gauls. In the Social War Patrae isfrequently mentioned as the port at which Philiplanded in his expedition into Peloponnesus. In thewar between the Achaeans and the Romans Patraesuffered so severely, that the greater part of theinhabitants abandoned the city and took up theirabodes in the surrounding villages of Mesatis, An­