OCR Output 450 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. fortress at the dawn of day. From thence the king ofPersia was conducted to the more honourable residenceof Hierapolis; and Maurice dissembled his pride, and dis­played his benevolence, at the reception of the letters andambassadors of the grandson of Nnshirvan. They hum­bly represented the vicissitudes of fortune and the com­mon interest of princes, exaggerated the ingratitude ofBahram the agent of the evil principle, and urged, withspecious argument, that it was for the advantage of theRomans themselves to support the two monarchies whichbalance the world, the two great luminaries by whose sa­lutary influence it is vivified and adorned. The anxiety- of Chosroes was soon relieved by the assurance, that theemperor had espoused the cause of justice and royalty;but Maurice prudently declined the expense and delay ofhis useless visit to Constantinople. In the name of hisgenerous benefactor, a rich diadem was presented to thefugitive prince with an inestimable gift of jewels and gold;a powerful army was assembled on the frontiers of Syriaand Armenia under the command of the valiant and faith­ful Narses/ and this general, of his own nation, and hisown choice, was directed to pass the Tigris, and never tosheath his sword till he had restored Chosroes to thethrone of his ancestors. The enterprise, however splen-JBt return. did, was less arduous than it might appear. Persia hadalready repented of her fatal rashness, which betrayedthe heir of the house of Sassan to the ambition of a re­bellions subject; and the bold refusal of the Magi toconsecrate his usurpation, compelled Bahram to assumethe sceptre, regardless of the laws and prejudices of thelaws and prejudices of the nation. The palace was soondistracted with conspiracy, the city with tumult, the pro­vinces with insurrection; and the cruel execution of the r In this age there were three warriors of the name of Narses, who had been oftenconfounded. (Pagi, Critica, tom. 2. p. 6.40.)—1. A Persarmenian, the brother ofIsaac and Armatius, who, after a successful action against Belissrius, deserted fromhis Persian sovereign, and afterward served in the Italian war. 2. The eunuch whaconquered Italy. 3. The restorer of Chosroes, who is celebrated in the poem ofCo-rippus (lib. 3. 220—227.) as excelsus super omnia vertice agmina .... hahitu mo*destus . . morum probitate placens, virtute vercudus; fulroineus, cantus, vigilans,&Q.