OCR Output 286 LIVY. bly, with promises of several kinds of rewards to beconferred on them, that the certain hope of thesemight animate their exertions in the fight. ' He wouldgive them land,' he told them, ' in Italy, Africa, orSpain, wherever they should choose, exempt from allcharges, to the person who should receive it, and tohis children. Should any prefer money to land, hewould give him an equivalent in silver. To such of theallies as wished-to become citizens of Carthage, thatprivilege should be granted. With regard to thosewho chose rather to return to their native homes, hewould take care that they should not have cause towish for an exchange of situation with anyone of theircountrymen.' To the slaves also who attended theirmasters he promised liberty, engaging to give theowners two slaves in the room of each of these. Then,to give them full security for the performance of allthis, holding in his left hand a lamb, and in his righthand a flint stone, he prayed to Jupiter and the rest ofthe gods, that if he did not fulfil these engagements,they would slay him, in. like manner as he slew thatlamb; and, after this imprecation, he broke the ani­mal's head with the stone. This had such an effectthat all the soldiers, as if they had now received thesurety of the gods for the ratification of their hopes,and thinking that nothing delayed the enjoyment oftheir wishes, but the battle not being begun, with onemind, and one voice, demanded the fight. 46. Nothing like the same alacrity appeared amongthe Romans, who, besides other matter, were dispiritedby some late prodigies. A wolf had entered the camp,and after tearing such as he met, made his escape un­hurt. A swarm of bees also had pitched on a treewhich hung over the general's tent. After expiatingthese prodigies, Scipio at the head of his cavalry andlight spearmen, set out towards the camp of the enemy,in order to discover, by a near view of their forces,how great and of what kind they were; and was metby Hannibal, who had likewise advanced with his ca­