OCR Output ITALIA. 89 ITALIA. and Bruttians, the latter of whom now occur for thefirst time in Roman history (Liv. Epit xii.); but cir­cumstances soon arose which led the Romans to de­clare war against the Tarentines; and these called inthe assistance of Pyrrhus, king of Epirus. The warwith that monarch (the first in which the Romanswere engaged with any non-Itaiian enemy) was atthe same time decisive of the fate of the Italianpnihuula. It was, indeed, the last struggle of thenations of Southern Italy against the power ofRime: on the side of Pyrrhus were ranged, besidesthe Tarentines and their mercenaries, the Samnites,Lncanians, and Bruttians; while the Latins, Cam-ptnian;, Sabines, Umbrians, Volscians, Marrucini,Pelijrni, and Frentani, are enumerated among thetroops which swelled the ranks of the Romans.(Moots, ix. Fr. Didot.) Hence, the final defeat ofPrrrhus near Berjeventum (b. c. 275) was speedilyfjlowed by the complete subjugation of Italy. Ta­n-mom fell into the hands of the Romans in B. c.272. and, in the same year, the consuls Sp. Carviliusand I'apirins Cursor celebrated the last of the manyUoman triumphs over the Samnites, as well as theLncanians and Bruttians. Few particulars havebeen transmitted to us of the petty wars which fol­lowed, and served to complete tbe conquest of thepeninsula. The Piccntes, who were throughout theSamnite wars on friendly terms with Rome, nowappear for the first time as enemies; but they weredefeated and reduced to submission in B. c. 268.Tlie subjection of the Salleutines followed, B. c.266, and the same year records the conquest of theSarsinateg, probably including the other mountaintribes of the Umbrians. A revolt of the Volsinians,in the following year (b. c. 265), apparently arisingout of civil dissensions, gave occasion to the last oftiiese petty wars, and earned for that people thecredit of being the last of the Italians that sub-untied to the Romsui power. (Floras, LSI.) It was not till long after that the nations ofXortbern Italy shared the same fate. CisalpineGaul and Ligurbk were still regarded as foreignprovinces; and, with the exception of the Senones,whose territory haul been already reduced, none ofthe Gaulish nations had been assailed in their ownabides. In b. c. 232 the distribution of the " Gal-li'us ager" (the territory of the Senones) becamethe occasion of a great and formidable war, which,fcmeTer, ultimately ended in the victory of thehutnans, who immediately proceeded to plant thetwo colonies of Placentia and Cremona in tho ter­ritory of the Gauls, b. c. 213. The history ofthis war, as well as of those which followed, isfolly related under Gallia Cisalpisa. It mayhere suffice to mention, that the final conquest oftbe Boii, in B. c. 191, completed the subjection ofGaul, south of the Padus; and that of the Trans-paaaoe Gauls appears to have been accomplishedmm after, though there is some uncertainty as totbe exact period. The Venetians had generallybeen the allies of the Romans during these contests■ i'.h the Gauls, and appear to have passed graduallya»i quietly from the condition of independent alliest> that of dependents, and ultimately of subjects.The Istrians, on the contrary, were reduced by force«f arms, and submitted in B. c. 177. The lastpbple of Italy that fell under the yoke of Romewere the Librarians. This hardy race of moun­taineers was not subdued till after a long series ofcampaigns; and, while the Roman arms were over­throwing the Mated idan and Syrian empires in the East, they were still constantly engaged in an inglo­rious, but arduous, struggle with the Ligurians, ontheir own immediate frontiers. Strabo observes, thatit cost them eighty years of war to secure the coast­line of Liguria for the space of 12 stadia in width(iv. p. 203); a statement nearly correct, for the firsttriumph over the Ligurians was celebrated in b. c.236, and the last in b. c. 158. Even after this lastperiod it appears to have been a long time beforethe people were finally reduced to a state of tran­quillity, and lapsed into the condition of ordinaryRoman subjects. 2. Italy under the Romans. — It would be agreat mistake to suppose that the several nationsof Italy, from the periods at which they successivelyyielded to the Roman arms and acknowledged thesupremacy of the Republic, became her subjects, inthe strict sense of the word, or were reduced underany uniform system of administration. The rela­tions of every people, and often even of every city,with the supreme head, were regulated by specialagreements or decrees, arising out of the circum­stances of their conquest or submission. How variousand different these relations were, is sufficiently seenby the instances of the Latins, the Campanians, andthe Hernicans, as given in detail by Livy (viii. 11—14, ix. 43). From the loss of the second decadeof that author, we are unfortunately deprived of allsimilar details in regard to the other nations ofItaly; and hence our information as to the relationsestablished between them and Rome in the thirdcentury B, c, and which continued, with littlealteration, till the outbreak of the Social War, b. c.90, is unfortunately very imperfect We may, how­ever, clearly distinguish two principal classes intowhich the Italians were then divided; those whopossessed the rights of Roman citizens, and werethus incorporated into the Roman state, and thosewho still retained their separate national existenceas dependent allies, rather than subjects properly socalled. The first class comprised all those com­munities which had received, whether as nations orseparate cities, the gift of the Roman franchise; aright sometimes conferred as a boon, but often alsoimposed as a penalty, with a view to break up moreeffectually the national spirit and organisation, andbring the people into closer dependence upon thesupreme authority. In these cases the citizenshipwas conferred without the right of suffrage; but inmost, and perhaps in all such instances, the latterprivilege was ultimately conceded. Thus we findthe Sabines, who in b. c. 290 obtained only the"civitas sine suffragio," admitted in B. c. 268 tothe full enjoyment of the franchise (Veil. Pat. i.14): the same was the case also, though at a muchlonger interval, with Formiae, Fundi, and Arpinuni,which did not receive the right of suffrage till B. c.188 (Liv. viii. 41, x. 1, xxxviii. 36), though theyhad Ijnrnc the title of Roman citizens for more thana century. To the same class belonged those of theRoman colonies which were called "coloniao civinmRomanorum," and which, though less numerous andpowerful than the Latin colonies, were scatteredthrough all parts of Italy, and included some wealthyand important towns. (A list of them is given byMadvig,de Coloniis, pp.295—303, and by Marquardt,Handb. der Jtomiichm Alterthiimer, vol. iii. pt. i.p. 18.) To the second class, the " Socii" or "CivitatesFiiederatae," which, down to the period of the SocialWar, included by far the largest part of the Italian