OCR Output ait. 1493.1 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWR tilings, and a memorial for myself, when youshall be in the fruition of great plenty andprosperity. Let me, therefore, suggest to youby what means you may be happy, and mayleave an eternal prosperous possession toyour children after you; and then let me goout of the world. And I cannot but deserveto be believed by you, both on account of thegreat things I have already done for you, andbecause, when souls are about to leave thebody, they speak with the sincere.st freedom.O* children of Israel! there is but one sourceof happiness for all mankind, the favour ofGod: for he alone is able to give good thingsto those that deserve them, and to deprivethose of them that sin against him. If youbehave yourselves according to his will, andaccording to what I, who well understand hismind, do advise, you will both be esteemedblessed, and will be admired by all men, andwill never come into misfortunes, nor ceaseto be happy; you will then preserve the pos­session of the good things you already have,and will quickly obtain those that you at pre­sent are in want of. Only be obedient tothose whom God would have you to follow.Nor prefer any other constitution of govern­ment before the laws now given you; neitherdisregard that way of Divine worship whichyou now have, nor change it for any otherform. And if you do this, you will be mostcourageous of all men, in undergoing the fa­tigues of war; and will not be easily con­quered by any of your enemies. For whileGod is present to assist you, it is to be ex­pected that you will be able to despise theopposition of all mankind. And great rewardsof virtue are proposed to you, if you preservethat virtue through your whole lives. Itselfis indeed the principal and the first reward;and after that he bestows abundance ofothers. So that your exercise of virtue to­wards other men, will make your own liveshappy, and render you more glorious thanforeigners can be; and procure you an un­disputed reputation with posterity. Theseblessings you will be able to obtain, in caseyou hearken to and observe those lawswhich, by divine revelation, I have ordained for you; that is, in case you meditate uponthe wisdom that is in them. I am now goingfrom you, rejoicing in the good things youenjoy; and I recommend you to the wise con­duct of your law, to the becoming order ofyour polity, and to the virtues of your com­manders; who will take care of what is foryour advantage. And that God, who hasbeen till now your leader, and by whose goodwill 1 have myself been useful to you, will notput a period now to his providence over you:but as long as you desire to have him yourprotector, in your pursuits after virtue, so long-will you enjoy his care over you. Your high-priest also, Eleazar, as well as Joshua, withthe senate, and chief of your tribes, will gobefore you, and suggest the best advices toyou; by following which advices you willcontinue to be happy: to them, therefore, doyou give ear without reluctance; as sensible,that all such that know well how to be go­verned, will also know how to govern, if theybe promoted to that authority themselves.And do not you esteem liberty to consist inopposing such directions as your governorsthink fit to give you for your practice; as atpresent, indeed, you place your liberty innothing else but abusing your benefactors:which error if you can avoid for the time tocome, your affairs will be in a better condi­tion than they have hitherto been. Nor doyou ever indulge such a degree of passion inthese matters, as you have oftentimes donewhen you have been very angry at me: foryou know that I have been oftener in dangerof death from you, than from our enemies.What I now put you in mind is not done inorder to reproach you: for I do not think itproper, now I am going out of the world, tobring this to your remembrance, in order toleave you offended at me; since at the timewhen I underwent those hardships, I was notangry at you; but I do it in order to makeyou wiser hereafter, and to teach you thatthis will be for your security; I mean thatyou never be injurious to those that presideover you, even when you are become rich; asyou will be to a great degree when you havepassed over Jordan, and are in possession of * Josephus, in this one sentence, sums up his notion ofMoses's very long and serious exhortations in the book ofDeuteronomy. And his words are so true, and of suchimportance, that they deserve to be had in constant re- membrance both by Jews and Christians: "O children ofIsrael! there is but one source of happiness for all man­kind, the favour of God."