OCR Output an. 589.] 371 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. who had fled out of the city with him, whenthey saw their enemies near them, theyleft him, and dispersed themselves someone way, and some another: every one en­deavouring to save himself. So the enemytook Zedekiah alive; when he was desertedby all but a few, with his children and his'wives, and brought him to the king. When he was come, Nebuchadnezzarbegan to call him a wicked wretch, and acovenant breaker; and one that had for­gotten his former words, when he promisedto keep the country for him. He also re- Eroached him for his ingratitude; that whene had received the kingdom from him, whohad taken it from Jehoiachin, and given it him,he made use of his power against him thatgave it. "But," said he, "God is great,who hateth that conduct of thine, and hathbrought thee under us." And when he hadused these words to Zedekiah, he com­manded his sons, and his friends to be slain;while Zedekiah, and the rest of the cap­tains, looked on. He then put out the eyesof Zedekiah, and bound him, and carriedhim to Babylon.* And these things hap­pened as tJeremiah and Ezekiel had fore­told to him, that he should be caught, andbrought before the king of Babylon, andshould speak to him face to face; and shouldsee his eyes with his own eyes. And thus fardid Jeremiah prophesy. He was also madeblind and brought to Babylon, but did not seeit: according to the prediction of Ezekiel. We have said thus much, because it issufficient to shew the nature of God to suchas are ignorant of it; that it is various, andacts many different ways, and that all eventshappen after a regular manner, in their pro­per season, and that it foretells what mustcome to pass. It is also sufficient to shew theignorance and incredulity of men, wherebythey are not permitted to foresee any thingthat is future; and are without any guard,exposed to calamities; so that it is impos­sible for them to avoid the experience ofthose calamities. After this manner have the kings of Da­vid's race ended their lives, being in numbertwenty-one, until the last king; who alto­gether reigned five hundred and fourteenyears, six months, and ten days. Of whomSaul, who was the first king, retained thegovernment twenty years; though he wasnot of the same tribe with the rest. Now the king of Babylon sent Nebuzara-dan, the general of his army, to Jerusalem,to pillage the temple: who had it also incommand to burn it, and the royal palace,and to lay the city even with the ground,and to transplant the people into Babylon.Accordingly he came to Jerusalem in the{eleventh year of king Zedekiah, and pillagedthe temple, and carried out the vessels ofGod, both gold and silver; and particularlythat large laver which Solomon dedicated; asalso the pillars of brass, and their chapiters,with the golden tables, and the candlesticks.And when he had carried these off, he setfire to the temple in the fifth month, the firstday of the month, in the eleventh year ofthe reign of Zedekiah, and in the eighteenthyear of Nebuchadnezzar. He also burntthe king's palace, and overthrew the city.|jNow the temple was burnt four hundred anaseventy years, six months, and ten days afterit was first built. It was then one thousand,sixty-two years, six months, and ten days,from the departure from Egypt; and fromthe deluge to the destruction of the temple,the whole interval was one thousand, ninehundred, fifty-seven years, six months, andten days; but from the generation of Adam,there were three thousand, five hundred andthirteen years, six months, and ten days.So great was the number of years heretobelonging. And what actions were doneduring those years, we have particularlyrelated. But the Babylonish general nowoverthrew the city, to the very foundations,and removed the people, and took forprisoners the high-priest, Seraiah, andZephaniah, the priest that was next to him;and the rulers that guarded the temple, who * Jeremiah xxxix. 7. t This observation of Josephus's, about the seemingdisagreement of Jeremiah xxxii. 4. xxxiv. 3. and Eze­kiel xii. 13. but real agreement at last, concerning thefate of Zedekiah, is very true, and very remarkable. Seechap. 7. Nor is it at all unlikely that the courtiers and voL. I.—N0S. 31 & 32. false prophets might make use of this seeming contradic­tion to dissuade Zedekiah from believing either of thoseprophets; as Josephus here intimates. J The twelfth, Hebrew and Septuagint II 2 Kings xxv. 9. 3R