OCR Output MYCEXAE. 3b 3 MYGDONES. t-tagik with elegance in the happiest proportions.fU Mba of both are slender in comparison withu* ml of the figure, especially of the one on theait of the beholder. The muscles, sinews, and>arv though little detailed, are indicated withr-sra spirit. The finish, both in a mechanical andinatiai paint of view, is excellent; and in passingUt load over the surface, one is struck with the<c*u aid easy blending of the masses in everyftam of the figure." (Mure, vol. ii. p. 171.) Ucades the great Gate of Lions, there was anssikr gate or postern on the northern side of theito pjhs, the approach to which was fortified iniuih mariner as that leading to the great gate,ii » nutroctad of three great stones, and is 5 feeti .itim vide at the top. .W the Gate of Lions the wall of the lower11.7 rasy be traced, extending from N. to S. InJ k»er ton are four subterraneous buildings,*Left are evidently the same as those described byi itiih, in which the Atreidae deposited their»»kct». Of these the largest, called by the learnedtat* Tnasnry ef Atreus," and by the Greek ciceroni— "Gave of Agamemnon," is situated under the•jsrfvct which now conveys the water from thec-va •» the north em side of the Acropolis to the<~aetJ Kharrdii (See Plan, C.) This building■i a nearly a perfect state of preservation. It is1 by a passage now in ruins, and containsThe passage leads into a larger of a conical form, about 50 feet in widthsad 40 m height; and in this chamber there is a**r»»T leading into a small interior apartment,"x mend-plan and a section of the building arem the Ilia, of Antiq. p. 1127. The doorway*- acsmg the passage, which leads into the large'tester, is 6 feel 6 inches wide at the top, widen-■t s kale cram thence to the bottom. "On the~-'-*M teiore each door-post stood a semi-column,Ji{ a base and capital not unlike the Tuscanenriched with a very elegant, chiefly in a zigzag form, whichin vertical compartments over the~m »iaft. Those ornaments have not the smallestto anything else found in Greece, butosy have s-ane similitude to the Persepolitan style'et^enre." (Leake, Morea, voL ii. p. 374.) Thererauu of a second subterraneous building nears 'taLt ef Uuos (Plan, D); and those of the two£-p=r> arc bwer down the hill towards the west. considerable discussion among> arholan respecting the purpose of those sub-t/uikiinfa. The statement of Pausanius,aaa tatey were the treasuries of the Atreidae, wag«ui accepted, till Mure published an essay inJtkcmuda lfwrvn fur 1839 (vol. vi. p. 240),s Basest he endeavoured to establish that all suchwere the family vaults of the ancientby wham I bey were constructed. In the. ediare at Mycenae he supposes the inner apart-Mat V- base been the burial-place, and the outer■at* law heraum or sanctuary of the deceased. This■aaaa* baa been adopted by most modern scholars,■ft had iara combated by Leake, who ndheres to~J* a«sa«: doctrine. (I'tkrycmuiura, p. 256.) The■* awun may, however, be to some extent recon-■%at w« •apjetitc that the inner cluuuhcr was thetsrm- /l»t, sad that the outer contained the arms,1 ■■i*. aai other ornaments most prized by the de-•nwawL. h *u the practice among the Greeks in allmm iar tx dead to carry with them to their tombs a portion of their property; and in the heroic agesthe burial-places of the powerful rulers of Mycenaemar have been adorned with such splendour thatthe name of Treasuries was given to their tombs.There is, indeed, good reason for believing, from the,remains of brazen nails found in the large chamberof the "Treasury of Atreus," that the interior sur­face of the chamber was covered with brazen plates. At the foot of the lower town stands the modernvillage of Kharvati. (Leake, Alorea, vol. ii. p. 365,seq.; Mure, Tour n> Greece, voL ii. p. 163, seq.)Curtius, Pelopounaot, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.) MYCE'NI. [Mauretasia.] MYCHCS. [Buus.] MY'CONUS (MiWos: Eft. Mwdwor: ilyko-no), a small island in the Aegaean sea, lying E. ofDelos, and N. of Naxos. Pliny says (iv. 12. s. 22)that it is 15 miles from Delos, which is much greaterthan the real distance; but Scylax (p. 55) morecorrectly describes it as 40 stadia from Rheneia, theisland W. of Delos, Myconus is about 10 miles inlength, and 6 in its greatest breadth. It is in mostparts a barren rock, whence Ovid gives it the epithetof hwnilit {Met. vii. 463); and the inhabitants had in.antiquity a bad reputation on account of their ava­rice and meanness (Allien, i. p. 7 ; hence the pro­verb MvxoViof ydruv, Zenob. l'rov. v. 21; Suidas,Uesch., Phot.). The rocks of Myconus are granite,and the summits of the hills are strewn with im­mense blocks of this stone. This circumstanceprobably gave rise to the fable that the giants sub­dued by Hercules lay under Myconus; whence camethe proverb, " to put all things under Myconus,"applied to those who ranged under one class thingsnaturally separate. (Strab. x. p. 487; Steph. B.i. ».) The tomb of the Locrian Ajax was alsoshown at Myconus. (Tzetz. ad Lycophr. 401.) Ofthe history of the island we have no account, exceptthe statement that it was colonised from Athens, bythe Nelide Hippocles. (Zenob. v. 17; SckoL adIHonye. Per. ap. Geogr. Min. vol. iv. p. 37, Hud­son.) Myconus is mentioned incidentally by Hero­dotus (vi. 118) and Thucydides (iii. 29). Ancientwriters relate, as one of the peculiarities of Myco­nus, that the inhabitants lost their hair at an earlyage. (Strab. /. c.; Plin. xi. 37. s. 47; " Myconicalva omnia juvenilis," Don.it. ad Ter. Ilecyr. iii. 4.19.) The highest mountain, which is in the northernpart of the island, has a summit with two peaks,whence it is called Dimastus by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 22).The promontory of PiionniA (4>op£/a, Ptol. iii. 15.§ 29) was probably on the eastern side of theisland. Scylax mentions two cities (Miwwos, aSrn5/toAis, p. 22). Of these one called Myconusoccupied the site of the modern town, which presents,however, scarcely any ancient remains. The nameand position of the other town are unknown. Thecoins of Myconus are rare; and in general very fewremains of antiquity are found in any part of theisland, (lioss, Reuen auf den Griechucien lutein,vol. ii. p. 28, seq.) MY'GDONES (Mi/yJowj), a tribe dwelling inBithynia, about the river Odrysses and the coast ofthe Propontis, but extending into Mysia, where theyoccupied the district about Mount Olympus andlake Doscylitis. They had immigrated into AsiaMinor from Thrace, but were afterwards subduedor expelled by the Bithynians. (Strab. vii. p. 295,xii. pp. 564, 575.) The district inhabited by themwas called Mygdonin. (Strab. xii. pp. 550, 558, 576;Plin. v. 41; Solin. 40, 42.) [L. S.]