OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 165 sought not the employment at first, and afterwards,when he discovered their wishes, even declined it.' Why,' said he, ' should they impose such a difficulttask on him, who was now in the decline of life, andhad passed through a full course of labors, and of therewards of labor? Neither the vigor of his body, norof his mind, remained the same ; and he dreaded For­tune herself, lest some god should think her too bounti­ful to him, and more constant than the course of humanaffairs allowed. He had himself succeeded, in gradualsuccession, to the dignities of his predecessors; and hebeheld, with great satisfaction, others rising up to suc­ceed to his. There was no scarcity at Rome, either ofhonors suited to men of the highest merit, or of men ofeminent merit suited to the highest honors.' This dis­interested conduct, instead of repressing, increased,while in fact it justified their zeal. But thinking thatthis ought to be checked by respect for the laws, heordered that clause to be read aloud by which it is for­bidden that the same person shall be re-elected consulwithin ten years. Such a clamor now arose, that thelaw was scarcely heard ; and the tribunes of the com­mons declared that this ' decree should be no impedi­ment ; for they would propose an order to the people,that he should be exempted from the obligation of thelaws.' Still he persisted in his opposition, asking, ' Towhat purpose were laws enacted, if they were eludedby the very persons who procured them ? The lawsnow,' he said,1 instead of being rulers, were overruled.'The people, nevertheless, proceeded to vote; and, assoon as each century was called in, it immediatelynamed Fabius consul. Then at length, overcome bythe universal wish of the state, he said, ' Romans, maythe gods approve your present, and all your futureproceedings. But since with respect to me you intendto act according to your own wills, let my interest findroom with you with respect to my colleague. I ear­nestly request that you will place in the consulshipwith me Publius Decius; a man with whom I havealready experienced the utmost harmony in our joint