OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 129 to preserve himself if possible for better times. Gracchus wasinduced to make an attempt to escape to the other bank ofthe Tiber; but when hastening down the hill he fell andsprained his foot. To gain time for hiui to escape, his twoattendants turned to face his pursuers and allowed them­selves to be cut down, Marcus Pomponius at the PortaTrigemina under the Aventine, Publius Laetorius at thebridge over the Tiber where Horatius Codes was said tohave once singly withstood the Etruscan army; so Gracchus,attended only by his slave Euporus, reached the suburb onthe right bank of the Tiber. There, in the grove of Furrina,were afterwards found the two dead bodies; it seemed as ifthe slave had put to death first his master and then himself.The heads of the two fallen leaders were handed over to thegovernment as required; the stipulated price and more waspaid to Lucius Septumuleius, a noble, who delivered up thehead of Gracchus, while the murderers of Flaccus, personsof humble position, were sent away with empty hands.The bodies of the dead were thrown into the river; thehouses of the leaders were abandoned to the pillage of themultitude. The warfare of prosecutions against the parti­sans of Gracchus began on the grandest scale; as many as3000 of them are said to have been strangled in prison,amongst whom was Quintus Flaccus, eighteen years of age,who had taken no part in the conflict, and was universallylamented on account of his youth and his amiableness.On the open space beneath the Capitol, where the altarconsecrated by Camillus- after the restoration of internalpeace (i. 305) and other shrines erected on similar occa­sions to Concord were situated, these small chapels werepulled down; and out of the property of the killed orcondemned traitors, which was confiscated even to theportions of their wives, a new and spleudid temple of Con­cord with the basilica belonging to it was erected in accord­ance with a decree of the senate by the consul LuciusOpimius. Certainly it was an act in accordance with thespirit of the age to remove the memorials of the old, and toinaugurate a new, Concord over the remains of the threegrandsons of the conqueror of Zama, all of whom—firstTiberius Gracchus, then Scipio jEmilianus, and lastly theyoungest and most vehement, Gaius Gracchus—had now beenengulfed by the revolution. The memory of the Gracchiremained officially proscribed; Cornelia was not allowed to TOL. III. K