OCR Output 354 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. caused the person who had threatened to accuse him, alongwith his nearest relatives and friends, to be outlawed andkilled. Numbers thus fell—-including not a few decidedadherents of the oligarchy—as the victims of private hos­tility or of their riches: the fearful confusion, and the cul­pable indulgence which Sulla displayed in this as in everyinstance towards those more closely connected with, him,prevented any punishment even of the ordinary crimes thatwere perpetrated amidst the disorder. Confisca- The confiscated property was dealt with in a similar way. ♦ions. Sulla from political considerations sought to induce the respectable burgesses to take part in its purchase; a greatportion of them, moreover, voluntarily pressed forward, andnone more zealously than the young Marcus Crassus.Under the existing circumstances the utmost depreciationwas inevitable, a depreciation which to some extent could notbut result from the Roman plan of selling the property con­fiscated by the state for a round sum payable in ready money.Moreover, the regent did not forget himself; while his wifeMetella more especially and other persons high and lowclosely connected with him, even freedmen and boon-com­panions, were sometimes allowed to purchase without compe­tition, sometimes had the purchase-money wholly or par­tially remitted. One of his freedmen, for instance, is said tohave purchased a property of 6,000,000 sesterces (£61,100)for 2000 (£20 12s.), and one of his subalterns is said tohave acquired by such speculations an estate of 10,000,000sesterces (£102,700). The indignation was great and just;even during Sulla's regency an advocate asked, whether thenobility had waged civil war solely for the purpose of en­riching their freedmen and slaves. But in spite of this de­preciation the whole proceeds of the confiscated estatesamounted to not less than 350,000,000 sesterces (£3,050,000),which gives a tolerable idea of the enormous extent of theseconfiscations falling chiefly on the wealthiest portion of theburgesses. It was altogether a fearful visitation. Therewas no longer any process or any pardon; mute terror laylike a weight of lead on the land, and free speech wassilenced in the market-place alike of the capital and of thecountry-town. The oligarchical reign of terror bore indeeda different stamp from that of the revolution; while Mariushad glutted his personal vengeance in the blood of hisenemies, Sulla seemed to account terrorism in the abstract, if