OCR Output ROMA. 773 ROMA. rw uotbfT pi red stmt, enclosing the area of the nm, which tu distinguishable by its being pavedirJi (libs of* the ordinary silex. This street con-rwi fMiwxrd*, put the rain of the three co­nn or temple of Castor, as was shown by ai ir piece of street pavement having been dis-nnd 10 front of them From this spot it mustin proceeded eastwards, past the church of Sta.'aru L&eratrvx, till it met that portion of the Sacra Via which ran in a southerly direction op*posite the temple of Faustina (S. Loernzo inMiranda), and formed the eastern boundary ofthe forum. Hence, according to the opinion nowgenerally received, the forum presented an oblong orrather trapezoidal figure, 671 English feet in length,by 202 at its greatest breadth under the Capitol,and 117 at its eastern extremity. (Bunsen, LtsForum de Jiome, p. 15.) f 9 9 fJ tJP Hi] l m -t i ,i i ■ ■■■If If L 'II^J1 m ' rl > ^ 11 a. T1IE FORUM IX ITS PRESENT STATE. rSa,—The Sacra Via was thus intimatelyvita the forum; said as it waa both one ofKbent and ooe of the most importantMaVine, it will demand a particular description.Ik* is lost in obscurity. According to some ac- • fctta* bare been already in existence whenMb boson Alluded to was fought, since it isfcfcwt derived its name of the *' Sacred Way" tmtv concluded upon it between RomulusI**- (Dionya, ii. 46; Festus, p. 290, Mull.)•Wsew, wwmi highly improbable; not only■ tbt road could hardly have existed at so*fmod, when the site of the forum itself wasa state, bat also because a public high- • ** *Jfc*rther the place in which we shouldI s tmty of peace to be concluded. The name • natutrcm lias alao been derived, perh:i[«*0*ntr probability, from the same event.■** leery that the road took ita origin at a'faer period, when the Sabine and Romankad bscoine mnsolalated. IU name of Sacra■■■ ■ have been derived from the sacred» ** which it waa used. Thus we learn from Varro (L. L. § 47, Mull.) that it began at thesacellum of the goddess Strenia, in the Carinae;that it proceeded thence as far as the arx, or citadelon the Capitoline hill; and tliat certain sacred offer­ings, namely, the white sheep or lamb (uvis idulis),which was sacrificed every ides to Jove (Ovid, F.i. 56; Macrob. S. i. 15; Paul. Diac. p. 104, Mull.),were borne along it monthly to the arx. It waaalso the road by which the augurs descended fromthe arx when, after taking the auguries, they pro­ceeded to inaugurate anything iu the city below. Itlikewise appears that Titus Tntius instituted thecustom that on every new year's day the augursshould bring him presents of verbenae from thegrove of Strenia, or Streuua, to hit* dwelling on thearx ("ab exortu poene urbis Msrtiae Streniarumusus adolevit, auctoritate regis Tatii, qui verbenaafelicis arboris ex luco Strenuae anni novi auspiciaprimus accepit," Symm. Epist. x. 35). This cus­tom seems to have been retained in later times inthat known as the augurium salntis. (Cic. Ltg. ii.8; Tac. Ann. xii. 23; Lucian, Fstudol. 8.) Henceperhaps the appellation of 'sacra;" though the Si) 3