OCR Output Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 289 lowing: Cecilius Bassus, one of Pompey's party, laid a treach­erous design against Sextus Caesar, and slew him, and thentook his army, and got the management of public affairs into hisown hand; so there arose a great war about Apamia, while Cae­sar's generals came against him with an army of horsemen andfootmen: To these Antipater also sent succours, and his sonswith them, as calling to mind the kindnesses they had receivedfrom Caesar, and on that account he thought it but just to requirepunishment for him, and to take vengeance on the man that hadmurdered him. And as the war was drawn out into a greatlength, Marcus came from Rome to take Sextus' governmentupon him: But Caesar was slain by Cassius and Brutus in thesenate house, after he had retained the government three yearsand six months. This fact, however, is related elsewhere. 2. As the war that arose upon the death of Caesar was nowbegun, and the principal men were all gone, some one way, andsome another, to raise armies, Cassius came from Rome intoSyria, in order to receive the [army that lay in the] camp atApamia; and having raised the siege, he brought over both Bas­sus and Marcus to his party. He then went over the cities, andgot together weapons and soldiers, and laid great taxes uponthose cities; and he chiefly oppressed Judea, and exacted of itseven hundred talents: But Antipater, when he saw the state tobe in so great consternation and disorder, he divided the collec­tion of that sum, and appointed his two sons to gather it, andso that part of it was to be exacted by Malichus, who wasill-disposed to him, and part by others. And because Heroddid exact what is required of him from Galilee before others,he was in the greatest favour with Cassius; for he thought it apart of prudence to cultivate a friendship with the Romans, andto gain their good-will at the expense of others; whereas thecurators of the other cities, with their citizens, were sold forslaves; and Cassius reduced four cities into slavery, the twomost potent of which were Gophna and Emmaus; and, besidesthese, Lydia, and Thamna. Nay, Cassius was so very angry atMalichus, that he had killed him, (for he assaulted him,) hadnot Hyrcanus, by the means of Antipater, sent him a hun­dred talents of his own, and thereby pacified his anger againsthim. 3. But after Cassius was gone out of Judea, Malichus laid snaresfor Antipater, as thinking that his death would be the preserva­tion of Hyrcanus' government; But his design was not unknown Roman historians require us to read Marcus in Josephus, and tliis perpetually,l>oth in these Antiquities, and in the history of the Wars, as the learned generally•gree.