OCR Output Ik [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ous designs towards men, and it being easiestto take vengeance of him that way; and whenhe had deprived him of the use of his Jget, hemade him to go rolling along, and dragginghimself upon the ground; and when God hadappointed these penalties for them, he re­moved Adam and Eve out of the garden* intoanother place. CHAP. II. OF THE POSTERITY OF ADAM, AND THE TEN GENERATIONSFROM HIM TO THE DELUGE. ADAM and Eve had two sons,f the elderof them was named Cain, which name,when interpreted, signifies a possession. Theyounger was Abel, which signifies sorrow.They also hadjlaughters. Now the two bre­thren were pleased with different courses oflife: for Abel the brother was a lover ofrighteousness, and believing that GocTwaspresent at all his actions, he excelled in vir­tue, and his employment was that of a shep­herd. But Cain was not only very wicked inother respects, but was wholly intent upongetting, and he first contrived to plough theground. He slew his brother on the followingoccasion :—they had resolved to sacrifice toGod; now Cain brought the fruits of the earth,and of his husbandry: but Abel brought milk,and the first fruits of his flocks. But GodJwas more delighted with the latter oblation,when he was honoured with what grew natu­rally of its own accord, than he was with whatwas the invention of a covetous man, and got­ten by forcing the ground. Cain, therefore,was very angry that Abel was preferred byGod before him, and he slew his brother, and hid his dead body, thinking to escape dis­covery. But God knowing what had been done,came to Cain and asked him, What was be­come of his brother? because he had not seenhim many days, whereas he used to observethem conversing together at other times. ButCain was in doubt with himself, and knew notwhat answer to give to God. At first he said,that he was himself at a loss about his bro­ther's disappearing; but when he was pro- jvoked by God, who pressed him vehemently,'as resolving to know what the matter was, hereplied, "He was not his brother's guardianor keeper, nor was he an observer of what hedid." But in return God convicted Cain, ashaving been the murderer of his brother, andsaid, " I wonder at thee, that thou knowestnot what is become of a man whom thou thy­self has destroyed." God however did notinflict the punishment of death upon him, onaccount of his offering sacrifice, and therebymaking supplication to him not to be extremein his wrath to him: but he made him ac­cursed and threatened his posterity in theseventh generation. He also cast him, togetherwith his .wife, out of that land; and when hewas afraid, that in wandering about he shouldfall among wild beasts, and by that meansperish, God told him not to entertain such amelancholy suspicion,|| but to go over all theearth without fear of what mischief he mightsuffer from wild beasts; and setting a markupon him that he might be known, he com­manded him to depart.§ When Cain had travelled over many coun­tries, he, with his wife, built a city, namedNod,** which is a place so called, and there * Gen. iii. 23. t Gen. iv. et sequel. J St. John's account of the reason why God acceptedthe sacrifice of Abel, and rejected that of Cain; as alsowhy Cain slew Abel, on account of his acceptance withGod, is much better than this of Josephus; I mean, be­cause " Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother.And wherefore slew he him? Because his own workswere evil, and his brother's righteous." 1 John iii. 22.Josephus's reasons seems to be no better than a Phari­saical notion or tradition. || The punishment of Cain was doubtless a severe one,but not more so than his aggravated guilt demanded. Re­ferring to it, Moses represents him as saying, My punish­ment is greater than I can bear, Gen. iv. 13. but as theHebrew words signifies iniquity rather than punishment,and the verb signifies to be forgiven, as well as to bear, itseems to agree better with the context, to render theverse positively, my iniquity is too great to be forgiven; or by way of interrogation, is my iniquity too great to be for­given? A learned annotator has observed that as there areseven abominations in the heart of him that loveth not hisbrother, Prov. xxvi. 25. there were the like number oftransgressions in Cain's conduct. 1. He sacrificed with­out faith. 2. He was displeased that God respected himnot. 3. He hearkened not to God's admonition. 4. Hespake dissemblingly to his brother. 5. He killed him inthe field. 6. He denied that he knew where he was.7. He neither hoped or asked for mercy from God, butdespaired, and so fell into the condemnation of the devil.Jiinsworth's Jlnnot. B. § Of this punishment of Cain in the seventh generation,and of the punishment of Lamech in the seventy-seventhgeneration, as also of the mark set upon Cain and his pos­terity, see Literal Accomplishment of Scripture Prophe­cies, Supplement at large, page 106—134. ** Gen. iv. 16.