OCR Output Chap. IV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 261 the mountains, came over to him. Yet could not Demetriusbear this turn of affairs, but supposing that Alexander was al­ready become a match for him again, and that all the nationwould [at length] run to him, he left the country, and went hisway. 6. However, the rest of the [Jewish] multitude did not layaside their quarrels with him, when the [foreign] auxiliaries weregone ; but they had a perpetual war with Alexander, until hehad slain the greatest part of them, and driven the rest into thecity Bemeselis; and when he had demolished that city, he carriedthe captives to Jerusalem. Nay, his rage was grown so extra­vagant, that his barbarity proceeded to the degree of impiety ;for, when he had ordered eight hundred to be hung upon crossesin the midst of the city, he had the throats of their wives andchildren cut before their eyes ; and these executions he saw as hewas drinking and lying down with his concubines. Upon whichso deep a surprise seized on the people, that eight thousand of hisopposers fled away the very next night, out of all Judea, whoseflight was only terminated by Alexander's death; so at last,though not till late, and with great difficulty, he, by such actions,procured quiet to his kingdom, and left off fighting any more. 7. Yet did that Antiochus, who was also called Dionysus, be­come an forigin of troubles again. This man was the brotherof Demetrius, and the* last of the race of the Seleucidae. Alex­ander was afraid of him, when he was marching against the Ara­bians ; so he cut a deep trench between Antipatris, which wasnear the mountains, and the shores of Joppa ; he also erected anhigh wall before the trench, and built wooden towers, in orderto hinder any sudden approaches. But still he %vas not able toexclude Antiochus, for he burnt the towers, and filled up thetrenches, and marched on with his army. And as he looked upon,taking his revenge on Alexander, for endeavouring to stop him,as a thing of less consequence, he marched directly against the A-rabians, whose king retired into such parts of the country as werefittest for engaging the enemy, and then on the sudden made hishorse turn back, which were in number ten thousand, and fellupon Antiochus's army, while they were in disorder, and a ter­rible battle ensued. Antiochus's troops, so long as he was alive,fought it out, although a mighty slaughter was made among themby the Arabians; but when he fell, for he was in the fore-front,in the utmost danger in rallying his troops, they all gave ground, and « Joseplius here calls this Antiochus the last of the Seleutidae, although thera,remained still a shadow of another king of that family, Antiochus Asiaticus, orCommagenus, who reigned, or rather lay hid, till Pompejr <juite turned him out,as Dean Aldrich here notes, from Apphn and Jihtin.