OCR Output an. 562.] 383 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to say, that there was a certain captivewho came from Judea, a Jew by birth; bijtbrought away thence by Nebuchadnezzar,when he destroyed Jerusalem; whose namewas Daniel; a wise man, and one of greatsagacity in finding out what was impossiblefor others to discover, and what was knownto God alone; and who brought to light andanswered such questions to Nebuchadnezzar,as no one else was able to answer, when theywere consulted. She therefore desired thathe would send for him, and inquire concern­ing the writing; and to condemn the unskil-fulness of those that could not find theirmeaning; and this although what God sig­nified thereby should be of a melancholynature. When Baltasar heard this, he called forDaniel; and when he had expressed what hehad learned concerning him and his wisdom,and how a divine spirit was with him, andthat he alone was fully capable of finding outwhat others would never have thought of; hedesired him to declare to him what this wri­ting meant. That if he did so, he would givehim leave to wear purple, and to put a chainof gold about his neck, and would bestow onhim the third part of his dominion, as an ho­norary reward of his wisdom, that thereby hemight become illustrious to those who sawhim, and who inquired upon what occasionhe obtained such honours. But Daniel de­sired, "that he would keep his gifts to him­self; the effect of wisdom, and of divine reve­lation admitting of no gifts; but bestowing itsadvantages on petitioners freely; but thatstill he would explain the writing to him. Hesaid, it denoted that he should soon die; andthis because he had not learned to honourGod, and not to admit things above humannature, by what punishments his progenitorhad undergone for the injuries he had offeredto God; and because he had quite forgottenhow Nebuchadnezzar was removed to feedamong wild beasts, for his impieties, and didnot recover his former life among men, andhis kingdom, but upon God's mercy to him, after many supplications and prayers. Whodid thereupon praise God all the days of hislife, as one of almighty power, and who takescare of mankind. He also reminded himthat he had greatly blasphemed against God,and had made use of his vessels amongst hisconcubines; that therefore God was angrywith him, and declared by his writing be­forehand what a sad conclusion of his life heshould come to. And he explained the wri­ting thus: "MANEH: this, if it be expoundedin the Greek language, may signify Apifljioj, anumber; because God hath numbered solong a time for thy life, and for thy govern­ment; and there remains but a small portion.THEKEL: this signifies Era^of, a weight;and means that God hath weighed thy king­dom in a balance, and finds it going downalready. PHARES: this also in the Greektongue, denotes KXoWfMi, a fragment; God willtherefore break thy kingdom in pieces, anddivide it among the Medes and Persians."* When Daniel had told the king that thewriting upon the wall signified these events,Baltasar was in great sorrow and affliction,as was to be expected when the interpreta­tion was so heavy upon him. However hedid not refuse what he had promised Daniel,although he were become a foreteller of mis­fortunes; but bestowed it all upon him. Asreasoning thus, that what he was to rewardwas peculiar to himself and to fate, and didnot belong to the prophet; but that it wasthe part of a good and a just man to givewhat he had promised, although the eventswere to be of a melancholy nature. Nowafter a little while, both himself, and the citywere taken by Cyrus king of Persia, whofought against him. For it was Baltasar,under whom Babylon was taken; when hehad reigned seventeen years. And this isthe end of the posterity of Nebuchadnezzar,as history informs us. But when Babylonwas taken by Darius, and when he, with hiskinsman Cyrus, had put an end to the do­minion of the Babylonians, he was sixty-twoyears old. He was the son of Astyages; and mother Nitocris appears to have been the real regentafterwards; Baltasar being a weak and effeminate prince,as I have already noted, and as his history shews. N. B.It is plain that though Xenophon knew the history ofCyrus, yet did he not know his chronology, or how longhe was in his war. He thought those wars, before the taking of Babylon, to have been over in a very few years;contrary to the strongest evidence elsewhere; though incontradiction to this, he knew Cyrus to be younger thanCyaxares, and a very old man before he died; whichagrees with the other testimonies of antiquity."* Daniel v. 28.