OCR Output 1332 UXELLODUNUM. dhsolu made by M. Cornnau, at the request ofTurgot does not torrespond to the description in theGallic War, lor the river Tonrmente washes onlyone of the four sides of this hill; he also says, thatnothing appears easier than to turn the river towardsthe west on the north side of the town, and to pre­vent its course being continued to the south. Butthe author of the eighth book of the Gallic Warsays that Caesar could not deprive the defenders ofUzeUodnnnm of the water of the river by divertingits course,4i for the river flowed at the very foot ofthe heights of Uxellodunum, and could not be drawnolF in any direction by sinking ditches." There is aplan of Capdeiiac in Caylus' Antiquttis (torn. v.pL 100, p. 280), and Walckenaer observes thatthis also corresponds very imperfectly with the de­scription. The researches of Chainpollion (Arou-velks Recherche* sur L'xellodunum), which arecited by Walckenaer, appeared in 1820. Waleke-naer makes some objection to Capdenuc, on groundswhich are not very strong. He says that the Lotis above 300 feet wide where it surrounds Capdettac,and one cannot conceive howarcbera placed on one bankcould have prevented the besieged from getting wateron the other side. If the archers and shngers were onthe river in boats or rafts, which is likely enough,this objection is answered, even if it be true that anarcher or linger could not kill a man at the dis­tance of 300 feet. Walckenaer makes some otherobjections to Capdaiac, but they are mainly foundedon a misunderstanding or a perversion of the Latintext. It is possible that we have not yet found Uxello-dunum, but a journey along the banks of the Lot,for that is more probably the river, might lead tothe discovery of this interesting site of Caesars lastgreat military operation in Gallia. The position ofthe place, the attack, and the defence, are well de­scribed; and it cannot be difficult to recognise thesite, if a man should see it before his eyes. Nothingcould be easier to recognise than Alesia, It is im­possible for any man to doubt about the site ofAlesia who has seen Alise [Mandubii]. In thecase of Uxellodunum, we have not the help of a cor­responding modern name, unless it be a place notyet discovered. [G. L.] UXELLODUNUM, a station on the wall of Ha­drian in Britannia Komana, where the Cohors l.Komanorum was in garrison (Not Imp.). PrubabhBreugh. [T. H. D.] UXELLUM (O^eXAor, Ptol. ii. 3. § 8), a to^of the Sclgovae in Britannia Barbara. Camden1193) takes it to have been on the river EuJiuscdale ; whilst Horsley (p. 366) identifies itCaerlaverock near Dumfries. [T. H. UXENTUM (OfywTov, Ptol.: EUuVxeUgento), a town of Calabria, in the territoi Sal lent inecoast, idi about 5 miles fromIapygian Promouttioued by bothd towns whichplaced by tlurn to the ex*11. p. 16; Ptis corrupt]md in Plinyedit'is thugh VI case whether Uxentum orform. The site is Itown of Ugento, anJwere still Tisible inof the hill on whichlapt/g. p. 100; Bo:tombs also have be*'vases, and inscriptionbeen discovered. ooi UXENTUS (ta chain of monnrlat, 22° and 2babty those calwatershed of s.of Bengal, as t U'XII (Otp. 524, xv. jwho lived onbetween Pertigris andvisited bySnsa; and744), wasof whichbeen a ncity wacarefulpsnoi Jouri' pTOM Suit On i F