OCR Output LIBYA. 177 LIDYA. tbe Xigir. Ptolemy moreover assigns to Africa agreater extent S. of the equator: but here his know-W„re becomes inexact, since he makes the landstretch into the Atlantic instead of curving eastward;and he concluded that the southern parts of Libyajoined the eastern parts of Asia, and consequentlywas either incredulous or ignorant of the Periplusof the Phoenicians in the reign of Pharaoh Necho. Pliny adds little to our information respectingLibya beyond its northern and eastern provinces,akhougb he contributes to its geography a numberof (■trange and irrecognisable names of places. Hehad seen an abstract at least of the journal of Poly-Nus, and he mentions an expedition in a. i>. 41 bySuetonius Paullinus, which crossed the Atlas range,and explored a portiun of the desert beyond. Butb"th Pliny and Pomponlus Mela are at once toou£u? and succinct in their account* to have addedranch to our knowledge of the interior. The persecutions which were mutually inflictedh the Christian sects upon each other in the 3rdsod 4ih centuries a. i>., the expulsion of the Dona-ti>!s, Muntanists, Circnmcellions, &c, from theKcle&iattical provinces of the Homan church, droveeven beyond the Atlas region thousands of fugitives,«d combined with the conquests of the Arabs in thel:h century in rendering the interior more per-njalle and better known. Yet neither the fugitivesr.or the conquerors have materially increased ouracquaintance with these regions. The era of dis-corery, m any extensive sense of the tenn, com­mences with the voyages of the Portuguese at thecUe of the 15th and the commencement of the16th century. But their observations belong to thegeography of modern Africa. We have reserved an account of the two most me~DstnbJe expeditions of the ancients for the discoveryof the farm and dimensions of the Libyan continent,partly on account of their superior importance, ifthey are authentic, and partly because the resultsd ihem have been the subject of much discussion. Herodotus (iv. 42) alleges as one reason for hisbelief that Libya, except at the isthmus of Suez, is•orroonded by water, a story which he heard of itsnrrumnavigation by the Phoenicians in the reignaod by the command of Pharaoh Kecbo, king ofAefrypt. This supposed voyage was therefore madebttwern n. c. 610—594. According to Herodotus, whose narrative is indeedBieazre enough, Pharaoh Necho desired to connect!i* Mediterranean with the Ked sea by a canal fromBibastb in the Delta to the Arsinoitc buy near&e. He abandoned this project at the bidding uft'w priests, and tlien ordered his pilots to attemptthe passage from the one tea to the other by a dif-frmi channel. For this purpose his fleet, mannedentirely by Phoenicians, set sail from the Ked sea,ftasfcd Aegypt and Aethiupia, and passed into theiMiaa ocean. At the end of three years theytiered the month of the Kile, having, as theyrfraed, circumnavigated the continent Twice theyovied,— probably at the season of the monsoons,—laid op their ships, sowed the flelds, and reaped thekarwst, and then proceeded on their course. Theyil:*vrd —and their assertion is remarkable, althoughHmdotu* did not believe it — that as they wereuuitir westward the sun was on their right hand. The probability or improbability of this voyage ha* been canvassed by Alannert {Geograph. der GrwA. md Rontr, vol. x. pt. 2, pp. 491—511), bj tiowlra {Geographic du Grtcs Analyst torn. tou a i. pp. 108, &c), Kennell (Geogr. of Herod, vol. ii.pp. 348—363.), and Heeren (Ideen, vol. i. p. 364).We do not consider that its improbability is by anymeans fully established; the voyage, however, wastoo tedious and difficult to be related by the navi­gators of antiquity, and its results for commerce andgeographical knowledge were accordingly unimport­ant. The most striking argument for the circum­navigation having been accomplished is the reportedphaenomenon of the sun appearing on the right hand,or to the north of the voyagers: nor were the Phoe­nician galleys less competent to the voyage than thecarrels which conveyed Columbus across the Atlantic,or Di Gama round the Cape. On the other hand,we must admit the improbability of some of the cir­cumstances narrated. Herodotus heard the story150 years after the supposed voyage had beenmade: in that time an extraordinary expeditionbeyond the Rod sea may have been magnified intoa complete Periplus. Again, for sowing and reapingon an unknown coast, for laying up the ships, &c.the time allowed — three years—is too short. More­over, no account is made for opposition from theinhabitants of the coast, or for the violent windswhich prevail at the Cape itself. The notion whichHerodotus entertained, and which long afterwardsprevailed, that Libya did not extend so far S. as theequator, is not an argument against the fact of thecircumnavigation; for the brevity of Herodotus's state­ment, in a matter so important to geography, showsthat he had taken little pains in sifting the tra­dition. A second ancient voyage is better authenticated.This was rather an expedition for the promotion oftrade than of geographical discovery. Its date isuncertain: but it was undertaken in the most flou­rishing period of the Punic Commonwealth, — i. e.in the interval between the reign of Darius Hy-staspes and the First Punic War (b.c. 521—2G4).Hanno,a snftetes or king,as he is vaguely termed, ofCarthage {Geogr.Graec. Minor, torn. i. Bernlianly),with a fleet of GO galleys, having on board 30,000men, set sail from that city through the Straits ofGibraltar with a commission to found trading-stations on the Atlantic coast, the present empire ofMorocco. How far he sailed southward is the sub­ject of much discussion. Gosselin (Geograph. des An-dens, vol. i. p. 109, seq.) so shortens Han no's voyageas to make Cape Non, in lat. 28° N., its extremesouthern terminus, while Kennell extends it to SurraLeone, within 8° of the equator (Geog. nf//crod.vol. ii. p. 348). The mention of a river, where hosaw the crocodile and the river-horse, renders itprobable that Hanno passed the Senegal at least. Ofthe fact of the voyage there is no doubt. The recordof it was preserved iu an inscription in the temple ofKronos at Carthage. There it was copied and trans­lated into his own language by some Greek travelleror merchant. (Boehart, Gcog. Sacr. i. 33; Cani-pomanes, Antiq. Maritim. de Carthago, vol. ii.;Dodwell, Dissertat. I. in Geogr. Grace. Min.t ed.Hudson; Bougainville, Desc&uvertea d'I J anno Mem,de FA cad. des Inscript, torn. xxvi. xxviii.; Heeren,Ideen, vol. i. p. 654.) A third and much later Periplus is that whichgoes under the name of Arrian. It is probably awork of the first century a.m. It is the record orlog-book of a trading-voyage on the eastern coast ofLibya, and is chiefly valuable as a register of thearticles of export and import in the markets of theKed sea, of the Arabian and Persian coast, of the N