OCR Output 234 LIVY. and succeed to the power of his father. Hanno, theleader of the other faction, said, ' Although what Has-drubal demands seems reasonable, nevertheless, I donot think that his request ought to be granted;' and,when all turned their eyes on him with surprise at thisambiguous declaration, he proceeded: ' Hasdrubalthinks that he is justly intitled to demand from theson the bloom of youth which he himself dedicated tothe pleasures of Hannibal's father. It would howeverbe exceedingly improper in us, instead of a militaryeducation, to initiate our young men in the evil prac­tices of generals. Are we afraid lest too much timeshould pass before the son of Hamilcar acquires no­tions of the unlimited authority, and the parade of hisfather's sovereignty ; or that after he had, like a king,bequeathed our armies as hereditary property to hisson-in-law, we should not soon enough become slavesto his son ? I am of opinion that this youth should bekept at home, where he will be amenable to the lawsand to the magistrates ; and that he should be taughtto live on an equal footing with the rest of his coun­trymen ; otherwise this spark, small as it is, mayhereafter kindle a terrible conflagration.' 4. A few, particularly those of the best understand­ing, concurred in opinion with Hanno ; but, as it ge­nerally happens, the more numerous party prevailedover the more judicious. Hannibal was sent intoSpain, and on his first arrival attracted the notice ofthe whole army.' The veteran soldiers imagined thatHamilcar was restored to them from the dead, ob­serving in him the same animated look and penetratingeye; the same expression of countenance, and thesame features. Then, such was his behavior, and soconciliating, that in a short time the memory of bisfather was the least among their inducements to esteemhim. Never man possessed a genius so admirablyfitted to the discharge of offices so very opposite in theirnature as obeying and commanding: so that it was noteasy to discern whether he were more beloved by thegeneral or by the soldiers. There was none to whom