OCR Output 10 ROMAN EMPIRE. fer; that human nature is never absolutely perfect; andthat the cross and passion might serve to expiate thevenial transgressions of the son of Joseph, before hismysterious union with the Son of God.qiv.Divine IV. All those who believe the immaterialitytke soul, a specious and noble tenet, mustconfess, from their present experience, the in­comprehensible union of mind and matter. A similarunion is not inconsistent with a much higher, or evenwith the highest, degree of mental faculties; and theincarnation of an aeon or archangel, the most perfectof created spirits, does not involve any positive contra­diction or absurdity. In the age of religious freedom,which was determined by the council of Nice, the dig­nity of Christ was measured by private judgment, ac­cording to the indefinite rule of Scripture, or reason, ortradition. But when his pure and proper divinity hadbeen established on the ruins of Arianism, the faith ofthe Catholics trembled on the edge of a precipice,where it was impossible to recede, dangerous to stand,dreadful to fall; and the manifold inconveniences oftheir creed were aggravated by the sublime characterof their theology. They hesitated to pronounce, thatGod himself, the second person of an equal and con-substantial trinity, was manifested in the flesh ;r that abeing who pervades the universe, had been confined inthe womb of Mary; that his eternal duration had beenmarked by the days, and months, and years, of human i The heretics abused the passionate exclamation of " My God, my God, whyhast Hum forsaken me!" Rousseau, who has drawn an eloquent, but indecent pa­rallel between Christ and Socrates, forgets that not a word of impatience or de­spair escaped from the mouth of the dying philosopher. In the Messiah, suchsentiments could be only apparent; and such Ul-sounding words are properly ex­plained as the application of a psalm and prophecy. 'This strong expression might be justified by the language of St. Paul; (1 Tirn.iii. 16.) but we are deceived by our modem Bibles. The word 8 (which) was al­tered to flu* (God) at Constantinople in the beginning of the sixth century: thetrue reading, which is visible in the Latin and Syriac versions, still exists in thereasoning of the Greek, as well as of the Latin fathers; and this fraud, with thatof the three witnesses of St. John, is admirably detected by sir Isaac Newton.(See his two letters translated by M. de Missy, in the Journal Britannique, torn.15. p. 148—190. 351—390.) I have weighed the arguments, and may yield tothe authority, of the first of philosophers, who was deeply skilled in critical andtheological studies.'