OCR Output S. II. YEAR I. BEFORE CHRIST 431. also is the fountain, now called the Enneakrounos or Nine-pipe, from the manner in which it was embellished by theTyrants*; but formerly, when all the springs were open,called Callirrhat; and which, as near at hand, they pre­ferred on the most solemn occasions. And that ancientcustom is to this day preserved, by making use of the samewater in connubial and many other religious rites. Andfurther, it is owing to such their ancient residence in thecitadel, that it is eminently called by the Athenians to thisvery day, The City. In the manner above-mentioned, were the Athenians for along series of time scattered about the country, in towns andcommunities at their own discretion. And as not only themore ancient, but even the latter Athenians, quite down to thepresent war, had still retained the custom of dwelling aboutthe country with their families, the general removals into thecity, after they were formed into one body, were attendedwith no small embarrassment; and particularly now, whenthey had been refitting their houses, and resettling themselvesafter the Persian invasion. It gave them a very sensible griefand concern to think, that they must forsake their habitationsand temples, which, from long antiquity, it had been theirforefathers and their own religious care to frequent; that theymust quite alter their scene of life, and each abandon as itwere his native home. When they were come into the city,some few had houses ready for their reception, or shelteredthemselves with their friends and relations. The greater part " pondence with the lunar or Attic." He says a deal on the subject so littleaffecting his countrymen, that since his death they have again thrown allthe Greek terms into the margin, and placed in the text the incongruousmodern ones, for the sake of familiar sounds. If the English reader be asdelicate, he may read April or May at his option. The ablest chronologcrsare unable to exchange them into currency with any tolerable exactness. Agreat deal of learning might be also displayed about the days of the monthand the Grecian method of counting them: But as it is exceeding easy totranslate these right, learning may be excused in a point where no light iswanting. • The Pisistratidi.