OCR Output BOOK III. 357 flfi commander in the reigns of Claudius and Nero, in Germany (Ann. -ina11, 18), in Armenia (Ann. 13, 8), Syria and Parthia (14,24; 15,25.et al); put to death by Nero.. H. 2, 76. 12. Secretis .... sermonibus. In private interviews withNero. Al. rurnoribus, with less authority and a less appropriatesense. 14« Primum pilum. Cf. 1,31: primipilaribus, note: havingobtained the office of first centurion through the scandalous favor(of Nero) thus gained (unde, i. e. crimmando Corbulonem), his pres­ent prosperity, ill acquired, afterwards proved his ruin, perhapsunder Domitian, who married the daughter of Corbulo. Ryckius. 16. Occupata ... quaeque. Al. occupantes Aquileiae proximoquaeque. Having gained possession of Aquileia, they are receivedinto all the neighboring places, etc. Aquileia, Altinum and Opiter*gium were towns at or near the head of the Adriatic, in the territoryof the Veneti. The names of the last two are still preserved inOderzo and the ruined tower of Altino.—In is not found in any MS.Baiter would supply per instead of it. Dod. leaves proximo quaequewithout a preposition, as acc. of place. — 19. Patavium. Cf. note, 2, 100.—Ateste was near Patavium,in the territory of Venice; now Este. - 21. Forum Allieni. Now Ferrara on the Po. 22. Id quoque, sc. that they were off their guard, as well as thatthey were there. —23. Praedictum = praeceptum, mandatum. Cf. note, 4, 53:praedixere. Ob. VII.—2T. Vulgata victoria limits veniunt, and togetherwith post principia ... Flavianos assigns the reason for the coming. of the two legions: When this victory was published abroad, nowthat (post, lit . after) the commencement of the war was favorable tothe Flavian party. 28. Duae legiones. Al. datae legiones. These two legions be­longed in Pannonia (2, 86), the 7th uuder the command of Autonius(ibid rr the 13th under that of Vedius Aquila (2, 44). Antonius hadleft them behind at first (cf. 2, supra: continete legiones); but nowthey were glad to share with him in his victories, agreeably to his pre-■-diction: juvabit sequi, etc. 31. Praefectus castrorum. Cf. note, 2,26.—Adductius. Withtighter rein. Cf. note, G.43. The use of the adv. in this sense is po.culiar to T. Boetticher. 33T Desiderata .... -res, sc. the restoration of Galba to duohonor; for his memory became dear after the crimes and calamitiesof the next two reigns. Dod., Eup. and Rit. refer res more specificallyto the military discipline of Galba, suggested by the same severityjust mentioned of Minucius Justus.