OCR Output 130 LILYBAEUM. LILYBAKUM. thaginians from all ttieir other strongholds. Bnt1they continued to throw in supplies and reinforce- |meuts by sea to Lilybaeum, so that the kin?, after asiege of two months, was compelled to abandon theenterpri.se as hopeless. (Diod. xxii. 10. Exc.Hoesch. pp. 498, 499.) But it is the memorablesiege of Lilybaeum by the Romans in the FirstPunic War which has [riven to that city its chiefhistorical celebrity. When the Komans first com­menced the siege in the fifteenth year of the war,B. o. 254), they were already masters of the whole ofSicily, with the exception of Lilyhaeum and Dre-jianum; and hence they were able to concentrate alltheir efforts and employ the armies of both consulsin the attack of the former city, while the Cartha­ginians on their side exerted all their energies inits defence. They had just before removed thitherall the inhabitants of Selinus (Diod. xxiv. 1. p. 500),and in addition to the citizens there was a garrisonin the place of 10,000 men, (Pol. i. 42.) Thecity appears to have occupied the whole of the pro- Jmontory, and was fortified on the land side by awiill flanked with towers and protected by a deep jditch. The Romans at first attacked this vigorously,bnt all their efforts were frustrated by the courageand activity of the Carthaginian commander Himilco;'their battering engines were burnt by a sally of thebesieged, and on the approach of winter the consulswere compelled to convert the siege into a blockade.This was easily maintained on the land side, but theRomans in vain endeavoured to exclude the besiegedfrom succours by sea. A Carthaginian fleet underHannibal succeeded in making good its entrance intothe port; and the skilful Carthaginian captainswere able to elude the vigilance of the Romancruisers, and keep np free communications witli thebesieged. The R>inan consuls next tried to blockup the entrance of the port with a mound, but thiswas soon carried away by the violence of the waves;and soon after, A1 herbal, the Carthaginian com­mander-in-chief, who lay with a large fleet at Dre-panuin, totally defeated the Roman fleet under theconsul P. Claudius, B.C. 249. This disaster wasfollowed by the almost total loss of two Romanfleets in succession by shipwreck, and these accu­mulated misfortunes compelled the Romans to aban­don the very attempt to contest the dominion of thesea. Hut though they could not in consequencein iintain any efficient blockade, they still continuedto hem in Lilybaeum on the land side, and theirarmies continued encamped before the city for severalyears in succession. It was not till the tenth yearof the siege that the victory of C. J.utatius Catulusat the Aegate*. I». r. 241, compiled the Cartha­ginians to conclude peace, and to abandon the pos­session of Ldybaeuiu and Drepnnum, which up tothat time the continued efforts of the Romans hadfailed in wresting from th«*ir hands. (poL i, 41—54, 59 -62; Diod. xxiv. 1, 3, 11, Kxc. II. pp. 506— 509, Kxc. VsJes. p. 565; Zonar. viii. 15—17;Oros. \r. 10.) Lilybaeum now josscd into the condition of aRoman provincial town: but it continued to be aflourishing and populous pi;tee. Its (position renderedit now as important a point to the Romans for theinvasion of Africa, as it had previously been to theCarthaginians for that of Sicily; and hence its nameis one of frequent occurrence during almost allperiods of Roman history. Thus, at the outbreak ofthe Second Punic War, B.c. 218, Lilybaeum wasthe station of the Roman fleet under the praetor M. Aemilins, who defeated a Carthaginian fare thathad attempted to surpri.se that important p>->r.(Liv. xxi. 49, 50.) During the course of the samewar it was the point from whence Roman com­manders repeatedly made predatory descents withsmall squadrons upon the coast of Africa; andtowards the close of the same memorable contest,B.C. 204, it was from thence that Scipio sailed *irhthe fleet and army which were destined for the r<-ti-quest of Africa. (Liv. xxv. 31, xxvii. 5, xxix. 24.)In like manner it was at Lilybaeum that theyounger Scipio Africanus assembled his fleet andarmy in b. c 149, preparatory to passing over intoAfrica (Diod. xxxii. 6); and in the Civil WarsCaesar made it his headquarters when preparing forhis African campaign against Scipio and Juba, b.c47. (Hirt. B. A/r. 1, 2, 37; Appian, B C. ±95.) It was also one of the chief naval stations ofSextus Pompeius in his war with Augustus, a. r.36. (Appian. B. C. v. 97, 122; D.on Cass. xHx.8.) Nor was the imjwrtance of Lilybaeum confine 1to these warlike occasions: it is evident that it wasthe habitual port of communication between Sicilyand Africa, and must have derived the greatest pros­perity from the constant traffic which arose fromthis circumstance. Hence we find it selected as thehabitual place of residence of one of the two qu*-.-tors of Sicily (Pseud. Ascon. in Y'err. p. 100); aj.iCicero, who had himself held that office at Lily­baeum, calls it "splendidisaima civitas" (Terr.v. 5.) It was one of the few cities of Sicily whkhstill retained some importance in the time of Stmt**.(Strab. vi. p. 272.) Its continued prosperity underthe Roman Empire is sufficiently attested by inscrip­tions: from one of these we learn that ita populationwas divided into twelve tribes; a rare mode of muni­cipal organisation. (Torremuzza Inter. SiciL pp.7, 15, 49; Orell. Inter. 151, 1691, 3718.) Inanother inscription it bears the title of a colon: thetime when it became such is uncertain; but probablynot tilt the reign of ll.idrian, as Pliny does notmention it among the five colonies founded byAugustus in Sicily. (I'lin. iii. 8. s. 14; PtoL ui. 4.§ 5; I tin. Ant. pp, 80, 89, 9C; Zampt, tfc CotW.p. 409.) After the fall of the Roman Empire Lilyhaenmstill continued to be one of the most importantcities of Sicily. It is mentioned as snch nnder thesuccessive dominion of the Goths aikl Vandals (Pro-cop. B. V. i. 8, ii. 5); and during the period of theArabian dominion in Sicily, that pwiple at tat bed somuch value to its port, th.it they gave it the name ofA farm AUa,—the port of God,—from whence hascome its modern appellation of Martnla. It was cuttill the loth century that this celebrate*! p*t w*sblocked up with a mole or mound of Minken shearsby order of the Kmperor Charles V.t in order to pro­tect it from the attacks of the Barbary corsairs.From that period Trapani has taken ita place asthe princijail port in the W. of Sicily; but .t/ArsoJeis still a considerable town, and a place of mwnmtrade, especially in wine. (Smyth's SirUy, p. 132.)Very few vestiges of the ancient city remain, butnumerous fragments of sculpture, vase*, and otherrelics, an well as coins, have been discovered *m thesite; and some portions of an ancient aqueduct arestill visible. The site of the ancient port, thoughnow filled with mud, may be distinctly traced, but itis of small extent, an J could never have had a depthof more than 12 or 14 feet. The rocks and shunts,which even iu ancicut tiutes rendered it diiiauit of