OCR Output LATIUM. 133 LATIUM. comprised Fidenae, Crustomerium, and Momentum,ail of which are clearly established as Latin towns,while Eretum, only 3 milea from Noracntum, isequally well made out to be of Sabine origin. Thisline of demarcation is confirmed by Strabo, whotpraks of the Sabines as extending from, the Tiberand Xomentton to the Vestini. (Strab. v. p. 228.)Kn*m Momentum to Tibur the frontier cannot betraced with accuracy, from our uncertainty as tothe position of several of the towns in this part ofLatium—Corniculum, Medullia, Cameria, and Ame-riola; but we may feel assured that it comprised theoutlying group of the Monies Corniculani (Mte. S.Angtto and Monticelli), and from thence stretchedarruv* to the foot of Monte Gennaro (Mons Lucre-lilis), anound the lower slopes of which are the ruinsor sites of more than one ancient city. Probably thewhule of this face of the mountains, fronting theplain of the Campagna, was always regarded as be­longing to Latium, though the inner valleys and re-v?n* of t he same range were inhabited by the Sabines.Tibur itself was unquestionably Latin, though how farits territory extended into the interior of the moun­tains is difficult to determine. But if Empulum andSaasula (two of its dependent towns) be correctlyplaced at Ampiglicme and near Siciliano, it musthave comprised a considerable tract of the mountaincountry on the left bank of the Anio. Varia, on theother hand, and the valley of the Digentia, were un­questionably Sabine. 3. Returning to the Anio atT:bnr, the whole of the W. front of the range of theApennines from thence to I'raeneste (Palestrina)*a$ certainly Latin ; but the limits which separatedthe La] ins from the Aequians are very difficult todetermine. We know that Bola, Pedum, Tolerium,and Vitelha, all uf which were situated in this neigh­borhood, were Latin cities; though, from their prox­imity to the frontier, several of them fell at one timecr other into the hands of the Aequians ; in likemanner we cannot doubt that the whole group ofthe Alban Hills, including the range of Mount Al-gwus, was included in the original Latium, thoughthe Aequians at one time were able to occupy theheights of Algidus at the opening of almost everycampaign. Valmontone, whether it represent To-kriara or Vitellia, must have been about the mostadranced point of the Latin frontier on this side.4. The Volscian frontier, as already observed, ap­pears to have undergone much fluctuation. On the<** hand, we find, in the list of the cities forming theLatin League, as given by Dionysius (v. 61), notnr.lv Velitrae, which at a later period is called aVolscian city, but Cora, Norba, and Setia, all ofwhich were situated on the western front of therange of mountains which formed in later times thestronghold of the Volscian nation; but looking onthe Pontine Marshes. Even as late as the outbreakof the great Latin War, B. c. 340, we find L. Anniusof Sttia. and L. Numicius of Circeii, holding therfairf magistracy among the Latins, from whom atthe same time Livy expressly distinguishes the Vol-•riaas (Liv. viii. 3). These statements, combined*itl: those of Pliny and Strabo already cited, seemtc kav» no doubt that Latium was properly regardedfa fitrtiding as far as Circeii and the promontoryut the same name, and comprising the whole plain'A ti* Pontine Marshes, as well as the towns ofCora, Norba, and Setia, on the E. side of that plain.0<i the other hand, Tarracina (or Anxnr) and Pri-•••cTuiim were certainly Volscian cities; and there canbe no doubt that during the period of the Volscian power they had wrested a great part of the tractjust described from the dominion of the Latins.Antium, which for some reason or other did notform a member of the Latin League, was from anearly period a Volscian city, and became one of thechief strongholds of that people during the fifthcentury b. c. The extent of Latium Antiquum, as thus limited,was far from considerable; the coast-line, from themouth of the Tiber to the Circeian promontory,does not exceed 52 geographical or 65 Romanmiles (Pliny erroneously calls it only 50 Romanmiles); while the greatest length, from the Circeianpromontory to the Sabine frontier, near Eretum, islittle more than 70 Roman miles; and its breadth,from the mouth of the Tiber to the Sabine frontier,is just about 30 Roman miles, or 240 stadia, ascorrectly stated by Dionysius on the authority ofCato. (Dionys. ii. 49.) 2. Latium Novum. The boundaries of La-Hum in the enlarged or geographical sense of thename are much more easily determined. The term, asthus employed, comprehended, besides the originalterritory of the Latins, that of the Aequians, theHernicans, the Volscians, and the Aurnncans orAusonians. Its northern frontiers thus remained un­changed, while on the E. and S. it was extended so asto border on the Marsi, the Samnites, and Campania.Some confusion is nevertheless created by the newline of demarcation established by Augustus, who,while he constituted the first division of Italy out ofLatium in this wider sense together with Campania,excluded from it the part of the old Latin territoryN. of the Anio, adjoining the Sabines, as well asa part of that of the Aequians or Aequiculani,including Carseoli and the valley of the Turano.The upper valley of the Anio about Subiaco, on theother hand, together with the mountainous districtextending from thence to the valley of the Sacco,constituting the chief abode of the Aequi duringtheir wars with Rome, was wholly comprised in thenewly extended Latium. To this was added themountain district of the Hernici, extending nearlyto the valley of the J.in-, as well as that of theVolsci, who occupied the country for a considerableextent on both sides of the Litis, including themountain district around Arpinum and Atina, wherethey bordered on the territory of the Samnites. Thelimits of Latium towards the S., where its frontiersadjoined those of Campania, are clearly marked byStrabo, who tells us that Casinum was the last Latincity on the line of the Via Latina,—Teanum beingalready in Campania; while on the line of the ViaAppia, near the sea-coast, Sinuessa was the frontiertown of Latium. (Strab. v. pp. 231, 233, 237;Plin. iii. 5. 6. 9.) Pliny, in one passage,appears tospeak of the Liris as constituting the boundary ofthis enlarged Latium (/A. § 56), while shortlyafter (§ 59) he terms Sinuessa "oppidum ex t rem urnin adjecto Latio," whence it has been supposed thatthe boundary of Latium was at first extended onlyto the Liris, and subsequently carried a step furtherso as to include Sinuessa and its territory. (Cramer'sItaly, vol. ii. p. 11.) But we have no evidence ofany such successive stages. Pliny in all probabilityuses the tenn "adjectum Latium" only as contra­distinguished from " Latium antiquum;" and theexpression in the previous passage, "unde nomenLatii pracessit ad Lirim amnem,'' need not be con­strued too strictly. It is certain, at least, that, inthe days of Strabo, as well as those of Pliny, Si­ K 3