OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 205 slain or taken prisoners. The number of the prisonerswas seven thousand three hundred, who were all sentunder the yoke ; the killed amounted to four thousandeight hundred. The victory was not obtained withoutloss of blood on the side of the Romans: when theconsul took an account of the loss sustained in the twodays, the number returned of soldiers lost was seventhousand three hundred. During these transactionsin Apulia, the Samnites attempted to seize on Inte-ramna, a Roman colony situated on the Latine road,but being disappointed in their design on the town, em­ployed their troops in ravaging the country ; whence,as they were driving off spoil, consisting of men andcattle, together with the colonists who fell into theirhands, they met the consul returning victorious fromLuceria, and not only lost their booty, but marchingin disorder, in a long train, and heavily encumbered,were themselves cut to pieces. The consul by procla­mation summoned the owners to lnteramna, to claimand receive again their property, and leaving his armythere, went to Rome to hold the elections. On his ap­plying for a triumph, that honor was refused him, be­cause he had lost so many thousands of his soldiers ;and also, because he had sent the prisoners under theyoke without imposing any conditions. 37. The other consul, Postumius, finding no employ­ment for his arms in Samnium, led over his forces intoEtruria, where he first laid waste the lands of the Vol-sinians: and afterwards, on their marching out to pro­tect their country, gained a decisive victory over themat a small distance from their own walls. Two thou­sand two hundred of the Etrurians were slain ; the restowed their safety to the city being so near. The armywas then led into .the territory of Rusella, and there,not only were the lands wasted, but the town itselftaken. More than two thousand men were made pri­soners, and somewhat less than that number killed onthe walls. But a peace effected that year in Etruria,was still more important and honorable than the warhad been. Three very powerful cities of Etruria,