OCR Output 210 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. blow, as he met with them carrying off their booty; for,by this minute reckoning, four thousand two hundredand thirty of them were cut to pieces. After this, they returned to Rome, when all the connsof justice were opened. At this time, the heavens seemedto be all in flames. Many other phenomena were real­ly seen, or seemed to be so, by people overcome withtheir fears. To avert these dreadful omens, three so­lemn fast-days were appointed, during which, the tem­ples were crowded with multitudes of both sexes, implo­ring the protection of the gods. Then the Latin andHernician troops were dismissed by the senate, who re­turned them their warmest acknowledgments • for theirsignal services in the war; but a thousand soldiers fromAntium, who came too late to share in the glory of theday, had not so honourable a discharge. CHAP. VI. A pestilence at Rome. A. R. 291. I PON this followed an election, when L.. .SJbutiusand P. Servilius were chosen consuls, and entered on.their office, the first of August, which, at that time, wasthe beginning of the year.* This was a melancholyyear, rendered so particularly by a plague, which ragedin town and country, and carried off both man andbeast. The fear of a.n invasion, contributed not a littleto spread the infection, the peasants and their cattlebeing all received into the city. This medley of animalsof every kind, raised an intolerable smell, which becamenauseous to the citizens, and stifled the country people,whilst they were pent up in close rooms, with heat andwant of sleep; Besides, their attendance on each other,with the infections nature of the distemper, propagatedit every where.When they were scarce able to support themselves un- * The beginning of the consular year, was at this time, and longafter, quite fluctuating and uncertain; sometimes commencing inMarch, sometimes in October, August, July and December: but,at tast,'A. R. 599, it was fixed to commence in January, whichever aftej it continued to do, till the ruin of the republic.