OCR Output 72 LIVY. of an oracle, his son, although, as well as others, per­suaded that the powers of his father's mind, togetherwith those of his body, had been impaired by age, wasyet prevailed on, by the general desire of all, to sendfor him and consult him in person. The old man, weare told, complied without reluctance, and was carriedin a waggon to the camp, where, when he came tospeak, he made no alteration in the opinions which hehad given, only added the reasons on which he foundedthem. That ' by his first plan, which he esteemed thebest, he meant, by an act of extraordinary kindness, toestablish perpetual peace a,nd friendship with a mostpowerful nation: by the other, to put off the return ofwar to the distance of many ages, during which the Ro­man state, after the loss of those two armies, could noteasily recover its strength. A third plan there wasnot.' His son and the other chiefs then asking him if' a plan of a middle kind might not be adopted ; of dis­missing them unhurt; and, at the same time, by theright of war, imposing terms on them as vanquished?'—' That, indeed,' said he, ' is a plan of such a nature,as neither procures friends nor removes enemies. Onlyconsider who they are, whom you would irritate byignominious treatment. The Romans are a race whoknow not how to sit down quiet under defeat; anyscar, which the present necessity shall imprint in theirbreasts will rankle there for ever, and will not sufferthem to rest until they have wreaked manifold ven­geance on your heads.' Neither of these plans wasapproved, and Herennius was carried home. 4. In the other camp the Romans, having tried manyfruitless efforts to force a passage, and being now des­titute of every means of subsistence, were reduced bynecessity to send ambassadors, who were first to askpeace on equal terms; which, if they did not obtain,they were to challenge the enemy to battle. To thisPontius answered, that ' the war was at an end ; andsince, even in their present vanquished and captivestate, they were not willing to make acknowlegementof their situation, he would send them under the yoke