OCR Output TO ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. the means of those bribes which they had taken. And whenArtabanus perceived that the plot laid against him was not to beavoided, because it was laid by the principal men, and those agreat many in number, and that it would certainly take effect;when he had estimated the number of those that were trulyfaithful to him, as also of those who were already corrupted, butwere deceitful in the kindness they professed to him, and werelikely, upon trial, to go over to his enemies, he made his escapeto the upper provinces, where he afterwards raised a great armyout of the Dabae and Sacae, and fought with his enemies, and re­tained his principality. 5. When Tiberius had heard of these things, he desired to havea league of friendship made between him and Artabanus; andwhen, upon this invitation, he received the proposal kindly, Ar­tabanus and Vitellius went to Euphrates, and as a bridge was laidover the river, they each of them came with their guards aboutthem, and met one another on the midst of the bridge. And whenthey had agreed upon the terms of peace, Herod the tetrach erect­ed a rich tent on the midst of the passage, and made them a feastthere, Artabanus also, not long afterward, sent his son Darius, asan hostage, with many presents, among which there was a manseven cubits tall, a Jew he was by birth, and his name was Elect-zar, who, for his tallness, was called a giant. After which Vi­tellius went to Antioch, and Artabanus to Babylon ; but HerodTthe tetrarch] being desirous to give Caesar the first informationthat they had obtained hostages, sent posts with letters, whereinhe had accurately described all the particulars, and had left no­thing for the consular Vitellius to inform him of. But whenVitellius's letters were sent, and Caesar had let him know that hewas acquainted with the affairs already, because Herod had givenhim an account of them before, Vitellius was very much troubledat it; and supposing that he had been thereby a greater suffererthan he really was, he kept up a secret anger upon this occasion,till he could be revenged on him, which was after Caius hadtaken the goverment. 6. About this time it was that Philip, Herod's brother, de­parted this life, in the twentieth year * of the reign of Tiberius, after * This calculation from all Josephus's Greek copies, is exactly right i for sinceHerod died about September, in the 4th year before the Christian aera, and Ti­berius ,began, it is well known, Aug. 19. A. D. 14. it is evident that the 37thyear of Philip, reckoned from his father's death, was the 20th of Tiberius, ornear the end of A. D. 33. (the very year of our Saviour's death also), or, how.ever, in the beginning of the next year, A.D. 34. This Philip the tetrarch seemsto have been the best ot all the posterity of Herod, for his love of peace, and hislove of justice.