OCR Output 426 NICOPOLIS. NICOPOLIS. § 3; Itln. Ant. pp. 183. 207, 215; Hierocl p. 70.1;Steph. B. s.v.). Most travellers and antiquaries areagreed, that Nicopolis is represented by the modernTurkish town of JJevriki; but as 11 lis place is situ­ated on a tributary of the Euphrates, the opinion isopposed to the statements of our authorities, espe­cially the " Acta Martyrum." Others are inclined toregard Kara-Aissar,on the Lycos,as marking the siteof Nicopolis; but still the routes indicated in the Iti­neraries are in favour of Itevriki; whence D'AnviJletoo identifies this place with Nicopolis, assuming thatthe error lies with the author of the "Acta Mar­ty rum,*' who expressly places Nicopolis on the riverLycus. 3. An episcopal see of uncertain site, in Lydia orIonia, mentioned by Hierocles (p. OGU). [L. S.] 4. A town in Cilicia. [Issus.] 5. A town in Palestine. [Emmaus, No. 2.]NICO'POLIS. II. In Africa. A town in Aegypt, founded by Augustus Caesar, in u. c. 24,on the field where he defeated, for the last time,M. Antonius. and in commemoration of the surrenderof Alexandreta. (Strab. xvii. p. 795 ; Joseph. B.Jud. iv. 11; Dion Cass. li. 18; Steph. B. s. v.) Theconqueror was at the moment highly incensed with theAlexandrians; and, by the foundation of a Romantown in their immediate neighbourhood, sought toinflict a permanent blow on their political and com­mercial supremacy. Nicopolis was built a little W.of the Delta proper, on the banks of the canalwhich connected Canopus with the capital, andabout three and a half miles from its eastern gate.That it was intended for a city of the first rank ap­pears from its ground plan, which, however,was neverexecuted. Its founder built an amphitheatre andadiaulos, and established there Ludi Quinquennales,in honour of his victory (*A\f£avTiptta, Spanheim,Epist. v. ^ 3, ed Morell.); and coins bear on theirobverse the legend NIKOnOAIX 2EBA2T. KT12T. He also designed to erect several temples, and totransfer to them the principal sacrifices and priest-colleges of the Macedonian capital. But the wholescheme was a failure; the natural advantages ofAlexandria were incontestable; and the Roman"City of Victory" was never more than than a suburbof its rival. Within less than a century alter its foun­dation, the name of Nicopolis disappears from history.A town called Juliopolis, mentioned by Pliny alone(vi. 23. s. 20), as seated on the same canal, andabout the same distance (20—3U Blades) fromAlexandria, is apparently Nicopolis (see Mannert,vol. x. p. 020). [W. B. D.] NICO'POLIS. III. In Europe. 1. AcityofEpeirus,erected by Augustus, in commemoration of the victoryof Actium, b.c. 31. It was situated near the entranceof the Ambraciot gulf, on the promontory of Epeirus,which is immediately opposite that of Actium inAcarnania. The extremity of the Epeirot promon­tory is now occupied by the town of Prevesa; andNicopolis lay 3 miles to the N. of this town, on a lowisthmus separating the Ionian sea from the Anibnudotgulf. It was upon this isthmus that Augustus wasencamped before the battle of Actium. His own tentwas pitched upon a height immediately above theisthmus, from whence lie could see both the outersea towards Paxi, and the Ambraciot gulf, aswell as the parts towards Nicopolis. He fortifiedthe camp, and connected it by walls with the outerport, called Comarus. (Dion Cass. 1. 12.) Afterthe battle he surrounded with stones the place where iIds own tent had been pitched, adorned it with naval j j trophies, and built within the enclosure a sarVun, of Neptune open to the sky. (Dion Cass. li. li.)J But, according to Suetonius {Aug. 18). he (Wki:^this place to Neptune and Mars. The uii tupeopled by inhabitants taken from Ambricia. Aar-torium, Thyrium, Argos Amphilochicum, L»»-don. (Dion Cass. li. 1; Suet. Awj. 12. Stratipp. 324, 325 ; Pans. v. 23. § 3, vil. 18. § 8, l 31.§ 4.) Augustus instituted at Nieopmis i <,tj&-quennial festival, called Actia, in comn cmont.'j ihis victory. This festival was sacred to Apollo,was celebrated with music and gymnastic cm*,horse-racing and sea-fights. It was proUaWj :«revival of an old festival, since there was an wanttemple cf Apollo on the promontory of Adiaa.which is mentioned by Thucydides (i. 29). **i *»enlarged by Augustus. The festival wis deebniby Augustus to be a sacred contest, by which >tmmade equal to the four great Grecian games; it**placed under the superintendence uf the LiCrtiae*inonians. (Dion Cass., Suet., Strub., li ce.) Au­gustus caused Nicopolis to be admitted intn tatAmpliictyonic council (Paus. x. 3$. § 3\ andmaait a Human colony, (l'lin. iv. 1. s. 2; lac. J«.v. 10.) A Christian church appears to har? tenfounded at Nicopolis by the Apostle Piul. mP'-t -tdates his letter to Titus from Nieojolis of >b»donia, which was most probably the coluov A>custus, and not the town in Thrace, as sxi?supposed. Nicopolis continued to be the cbjtf c*fin Western Greece for a long time, bat it tt*i *•ready fallen into decay in the reign of Julian, iartwe find that this emperor restored both the e*fand the games. (Mamertin. Julian. 9.) At th» b»»ginning of the fifth century it was plundered by lbGoths. (Pmcop. B. Goth. iv. 22.) It wasrestored by Justinian (de Aedif. iv. 2). aad was **fin the sixth century the capital of Epeiros, (il^rtip. Gjl, ed. Wessel.) In the middle ages XiixpAsunk into insignificance, and the town of" PrreBbuilt at the extremity of the promontory, at kojiabs"rbed all its inhabitants, and was doubtless,* isimilar cases, chiefly constructed out of the raiiD*the ancient city. The ruins of Nicopolis arc still very roawdtniiT hey s t re t c 11 ac ros s the narrow e»t part «tf 8)isthmus already described. Strabo (vii. p. 3i4erroneously describes the isthmus as 6U Ibreadth; but the broadest part, from theeastern extremity of the lagoon called Jfa>*«;Mijtika, is only three miles; while the carro**part is less than half that distance, sum lieastern half of the isthmus is occupied by thtbc*of Mdzoma. This Uiroon is separated fr*o tAmbraciot gulf only by a narrow tiire*i ci ttawhich is u mile long, and has openin^i, wb*r* *fish are caught in great numbers, as tbev tnSrr tlagoon in the winter and quit it in the summer. Tlillustrates the statement of an ancient cevzof*that fish was so plentiful at Nicopolis as t-1almost disgusting. (Gtoyr, Grarc. Min. vuL A13, ed. Hudson.) Nicopolis had \wo harbourswhich Strabo (vii. p. 324) says that the nnm »smaller was called Comarus (Kouaf«oi% wfciir'further, and larger, and better one, was rut 1mouth of the gulf, distant about 12 tlaJuNicopnlis. 1; would appear, that Strabo nxim*b <lh the ports to have been on the western woutside the gulf; but it. is evident from theof the western coast that this cannot have hr**case. Moreover, Dion Cassius (1. 12) calla Caa*