OCR Output 146 {book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. priests, to be laid up among their treasures;and thus did Jericho perish. But there was one Achar,* the son of Char-mi, the son of Zebedias, of the tribe of Judah,who, finding a royal garment woven entirelyof gold ;f and a piece of gold that weighedtwo hundred shekels,:f and thinking it a veryhard case that what spoils he, by runningsome hazard, had found, he must give away,and offer them to God, who stood in no needof them, made a deep ditch in his tent, andlaid them up therein, as supposing he shouldnot only be concealed from his fellow sol­diers, but from God also. Now the place where Joshua pitched hiscamp was called Gilgal,|| which denotesliberty;^ for since they had now passed overthe river Jordan, they looked upon them­selves as freed from the miseries which theyhad undergone from the Egyptians, and inthe wilderness. A few days after the calamity that befelJericho, Joshua sent three thousand armedmen to take Ai, a city situate above Jericho,but upon the fight of the people of Ai withthem, they were driven back, and lost thirty-six of their men.** When this was told theIsraelites, it made them very sad, and ex­ceeding disconsolate; not so much becauseof the relation the men that were destroyedbare to them, though those that were de­stroyed were all good men, and deservedtheir esteem, as by the despair it occasioned; for while they believed that they were al­ready in effect in the possession of the land,and should bring back the army out of thebattle without loss, as God had promisedbeforehand, they now saw unexpectedly theirenemies bold with success; so they put sack­cloth over their garments, and continued intears and lamentation all the day, without theleast enquiry after food, but laid what hadhappened greatly to heart. When Joshua saw the army so much af­flicted, and possessed with forebodings of evil,as to their whole expedition; he used free­dom with God, and said, "We are not comethus far out of any rashness of our own, asthough we thought ourselves able to subduethis land with our own weapons, but at theinstigation of Moses thy servant, because thouhast promised us by many signs, that thouwouldst give us this land for a possession, andthat thou wouldst make our army always su­perior in war to our enemies, and accordinglysome success has already attended upon us,agreeably to thy promises; but because wehave now unexpectedly been foiled, and havelost some men out of our army, we are grievedat it, as fearing what thou hast promised us,and what Moses foretold us cannot be de­pended on; and our future expectation trou­bles us the more, because we have met withsuch a disaster in this first attempt. But dothou, O Lord, free us from these suspicions,for thou art able to find a cure for these dis- * That the name of this thief was not Achan, as in thecommon copies, but Achar, as here in Josephus, and inthe Apostolic Constitutions, VII. 2. and elsewhere, is evi­dent by the allusion to that name in the curse of Joshua,"Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall troublethee." Where the Hebrew words allude only to thename Achar, but not to Achan; accordingly this valley ofAchar or Achor, was and is a known place, a little northof Gilgal, so called from the days of Joshua to this day.See Josh. vii. 24, 26. Is. lxv. 10. Hos. ii. 15. and Dr. Ber­nard's notes here. t In the original, this robe is called a garment ofShinar,i. e. of Babylon; and the general opinion is, that the rich­ness and excellency of it consisted not so much in the stuffwhereof it was made, as in the colour whereof it wasdyed, which most suppose to have been scarlet, a colourin high esteem among the ancients, and for which the Ba­bylonians were justly famous. Bochart, however, main­tains, that the colour of this robe was various, and not allof one sort; that the scarlet colour the Babylonians firstreceived from Tyre, but the party-colour, whether sowoven or wrought with the needle, was of their own in­vention, for which he produces many passages out ofHeathen authors. Such as Non ego praetulerim Babylonica picta superbeTexta, Semiramia quaj variantur acu. Mart. Ep. lib. 8. Ha?c mihi Memphitis tellus dat munera, victa estPectine Niliaco jam Babylonis acus. Ibid. lib. 14. with many more citations out of several other writers.However this be, it is certain, that the robe could not failto be a very rich and splendid one, and therefore capti­vated either Achar's pride, or rather covetousness; sincehis purpose seems to have been, not so much to wear ithimself, as to sell it for a large price. Bochart's Phaleg.lib. I.e. 9. Saurin, lib. 3. dissertation 3. B. J Here Dr. Bernard justly observes, that a few wordsare dropped out of Josephus's copies, on account of therepetition of the word shekels, and that it ought to be readthus, A piece of gold that weighed 60 shekels, and one ofsilver, that weighed 200 shekels, as in our other copies.Josh. vii. 21. B Josh. v. 9. § I agree with Dr. Bernard, and approve of Josephus'sinterpretation of Gilgal, for liberty. ** Josh. vii. 5.