OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 139 ruled above two thousand years the sequestered re- chap. j YYYT7 gion of myrrh and frankincense. The conqueror (' immediately announced the victory of the gospel, re­quested an orthodox patriarch, and so warmly pro­fessed his friendship to the Roman empire, that Jus­tinian was flattered by the hope of diverting the silktrade through the channel of Abyssinia, and of ex­citing the forces of Arabia against the Persian king.Nonnosus, descended from a family of ambassadors, Their ain-was named by the emperor to execute this important Justinian,commission. He wisely declined the shorter, butA,1)-533-more dangerous, road through the sandy deserts ofNubia; ascended the Nile, embarked on the RedSea, and safely landed at the African port of Adulis.From Adulis to the royal city of Axume is no morethan fifty leagues, in a direct line; but the windingpasses of the mountains detained the ambassadorfifteen days; and as he traversed the forests, hesaw, and vaguely computed, about five thousand wildelephants. The capital, according to his report, waslarge and populous; and the village of Axume isstill conspicuous by the regal coronations, by theruins of a Christian temple, and by sixteen or seven­teen obelisks inscribed with Grecian characters*.But the Negus gave audience in the open field,seated on a lofty chariot, which was drawn by fourelephants superbly caparisoned, and surrounded byhis nobles and musicians. He was clad in a linengarment and cap, holding in his hand two javelinsand a light shield; and, although his nakedness wasimperfectly covered, he displayed the Barbaric pompof gold chains, collars, and bracelets, richly adornedwith pearls and precious stones. The ambassador of * Alvarez (in Ramusio, tom. i. fol. 219 vers. 221 vers.) saw the flourishingstate of Axume in the year 1520—luogo molto buono e grandc. It was ruined inthe same century by the Turkish invasion. No more than one hundred housesremain; but the memory of its past greatness is preserved by the regal coronation(Ludolph. Hist. et Comment. 1. it c. 11). r