OCR Output 250 THE KEVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. insurrection thenceforth spread at any rate no further. InEtruria and Etruria and Umbria especially, where it was just beginning,Umbria it was subdued with singular rapidity, still more, probably,tranquil- ^ means of the Julian law than through the success of theRoman arms. In the former Latin colonies, and in thethickly-peopled region of the Po, there were opened up copiousand now reliable sources of aid: with these, and with theresources of the burgesses themselves, they could proceed tosubdue the now isolated conflagration. The two formercommanders-in-chief returned to Rome, Caesar as censor elect,Marius, because his conduct of the war was blamed as vacil­lating and slow, and the man of sixty-six was declared to bein his dotage. This objection was very probably groundless;Marius showed at least his bodily vigour by appearing dailyin the circus at Rome, and even as commander-in-chiefhe seems to have displayed on the whole his old ability inthe last campaign; but he had not achieved the brilliantsuccesses by which alone he could after his political bank­ruptcy rehabilitate himself in public opinion, and so thecelebrated champion was to his bitter vexation now, even asan officer, unceremoniously laid aside as useless. The place ofMarius in the Marsian army was taken by the consul of thisyear, Lucius Porcius Cato, who had fought with distinctionin Etruria, and that of Caesar in the Campanian army byhis lieutenant, Lucius Sulla, to whom were due some of themost material successes of the previous campaign; G use usStrabo retained—now as consul—the command which he hadheld so successfully in the Picenian territory. Thus began the second campaign in 665. The insurgentsopened it, even before winter was over, by the bold attempt—recalling the grand passages of the Samnite wars—to senda Marsian army of 15,000 men to Etruria with a view to aidthe insurrection brewing in Northern Italy. But Strabo,through whose district it had to pass, intercepted and totallydefeated it; only a few got back to their far distant home."When at length the season allowed the Roman armies toassume the offensive, Cato entered the Marsian territoryand advanced, successfully encountering the enemy there; buthe fell in the region of the Fucine lake at an attack on theenemy's camp, so that the exclusive superintendence of theoperations in Central Italy devolved on Strabo. The latteremployed himself partly in continuing the siege of Asculum,partly in the subjugation of the Marsian, Sabellian, and War in Pi- Asculumbesieged,