OCR Output Chap. X. WARS OF THE JEWS. 27a 7. Now Hyrcanus was, by degrees, inflamed with these dis­courses, and at length could bear no longer, but he summonedHerod to take his trial. Accordingly, by his father's advice, andas soon as the affairs of Galilee would give him leave, he cameup to [Jerusalem], when he had first placed garrisons in Galilee :however, he came with a sufficient body of soldiers, so many in­deed that he might not appear to have with him an army able tooverthrow Hyrcanus's government, nor yet so few as to exposehim to the insults of those that envied him. However, SextusCaesar was in fear for the young man, lest he should be takenby his enemies, and brought to punishment; so he sent some todenounce expressly to Hyrcanus, that he should acquit Herodof the capital charge against him ; who acquitted him according­ly, as being otherwise inclined also so to do, for he loved Herod. 8. But Herod, supposing that he had escaped punishment, withthe consent of the king, retired to Sextus, to Damascus, and gotevery thing ready in order not to obey him, if he should summonshim again ; whereupon those that were evil disposed irritatedHyrcanus, and told him, that Herod was gone away in anger,and was prepared to make war upon him ; and as the king be­lieved what they said, he knew not what to do, since he saw hisantagonist was stronger than he was himself. And now, sinceHerod was made general of Celefyria, and Samaria, by SextusCaesar, he was formidable, not only from the good-will which thenation bore him, but by the power he himself had ; insomuch,that Hyrcanus fell into the utmost degree of terror, and expect­ed he would presently march against them with his army. 9. Nor was he mistaken in the conjecture he made, for He­rod got his army together, out of the anger he bare him for histhreatening him with the accusation in a public court, and led itto Jerusalem, in order to throw Hyrcanus down from his king­dom ; and this he had soon done, unless his father and brotherhad gone out together and broken the force of his fury, and thisby exhorting him to carry his revenge no farther than to threat­ening and affrighting, but to spare the king, under whom he hadbeen advanced to such a degree of power ; and that he ought notto be so much provoked at his being tried, as to forget to bethankful that he was acquitted ; nor so long to think upon whatwas of a melancholy nature, as to be ungrateful for his deliver­ance ; and if we ought to reckon that God is the arbitrator ofsuccess in war, an unjust cause is of more disadvantage than an.army can be of advantage ; and that therefore he ought not tobe entirely confident of success in a case where he is to fightagainst his king, his supporter, and one that had often been his be­nefactor, and that had never been severe to him, any otherwise than