OCR Output 388 • DECLINE AND FALL [CHAV. XLIV. \'. and Alexander of Diospolis, were dragged through thestreets of Constantinople, while their brethren were ad­monished by the voice of a crier, to observe this awfullesson, and not to pollute the sanctity of their character.Perhaps these prelates were innocent. A sentence ofdeath and infamy was often founded on the slight andsuspicious evidence of a child or a servant; the guilt ofthe green faction, of the rich, and of the enemies ofTheodora, was presumed by the judges, and paederastybecame the crime of those to whom no crime could beimputed. A French philosopherp has dared to remark,that whatever is secret must be doubtful, and that our na­tural horror of vice may be abused as an engine of tyranny.But the favourable persuasion of the same writer, that alegislator may confide in the taste and reason of mankind,is impeached by the unwelcome discovery of the antiquityand extent of the disease.'judgments The free citizens of Athens and Rome enjoyed, in allpeople. criminal cases the invaluable privilege of being tried bytheir country.1 1. The administration of justice is themost ancient office of a prince: it was exercised by theRoman kings, and abused by Tarquin; who alone, with­out law or council, pronounced his arbitrary judgments.The first consuls succeeded to this regal prerogative; butthe sacred right of appeal soon abolished the jurisdictionof the magistrates, and all public causes were decided by ■ P Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 12. c. 6. That eloquent philosopher conci­liates the rights of liberty and of nature, which should never be placed in oppositionto each other. ', 1 For the corruption of Palestine, two thousand years before the Christian era, seethe history and laws of Moses. Ancient Gaul is stigmatized by Diodorus Sicuius,(tom.,1. lib. 5. p. 356.) China by the Mahometan and Christian travellers* (AncisntRelations of India and China, p. 34. translated by Renaudot, and his hitter critic, thePere Premare, Lettres Edinantes, tom. 19. p. 435.)and native America by the Spanishhistorians. (Garcillasso de la Vega, lib. 3. c. 13. Rycaut's translation, and Dic-tionaire de Bayle, tom. 3. p. 88.) I believe, and hope, that the negroes, in their owncountry, were exempt from this moral pestilence. ''Hie important subject of'the public questions and judgments at Rome is ex­plained with much learning, and in a classic style, by Charles Sigonius, (lib. 3. deJudiciis, in Opp. tom. 3. 679—864.) and a good abridgment may be found in the Re-pnblique Romaine of Beaufort. (tom. 2. lib. 5. p. 1—121.) Those who wish for moreabstruse law, may study Noodt, (de Jurisdictione et Imperio Libri duo, tom. 1. p. 93—)34.)Heineccius, (ad Pandect. lib. 1. et 2. ad Ihstitut. lib. 4. tit. 17. Element, adAntiquitat.) and Gravina. (Opp. 230—2a1.) •'