OCR Output CHAP. 8. < ROMAN HISTORY. 413 • volunteers should receive pay, as if they had been le-'vied in form.' On this occasion too, a certain pay was instituted forthe horse; and it was at this time that the cavalry ingeneral began to receive pay out of the treasury. Thenew army of volunteers were conducted to Veii: theworks that had been destroyed by the enemy were notonly restored, but new ones constructed. Provisions wereconveyed from the city with more care and diligencethan ever, that nothing necessary might be wanting to.an army that deserved so well of the RepubIic. CHAR VIII. The Falisci and Vcjentes support Veil, and beat the Romans.Misunderstanding of the Generals. A. R. 351.' J. HE military tribunes, for the following year, wereC. Servilius Ahala, for the third time; Q. Servilius, L.Virginius, Q. Sulpicius, A. Manlius, a second time, andManius Sergius, a second time also. Whilst those tri­bunes were totally intent upon the war with the Vejen-tes, by the negligence of the governor of the fort atAnxur, in giving furloughs to the soldiers, and admittingthe Volscian merchants without reserve, the centinels atthe gates were betrayed, and the fort surprised. Fewof the garrison fell in it; as all of them but such as weresick, followed the business of sutlers in the adjacentcountry and neighbouring towns. Neither did they suc­ceed better at Veii, where the whole care of the publiccentered. For the Roman generals hated one anothermore heartily than they did the enemy; besides that thesudden appearance of the Capenates and Falisci had ren­dered the Vejentes more formidable. These two Etrurian nations were not without their fears,that were Veii to fall, they would be the next whom theRomans would attack, as lying most contiguous for that. purpose. The Falisci had laid themselves open to theresentment of the Romans, by taking part,«on a formeroccasion, with the Fldenates, when at war with the Re­public; and now having sent deputies up and downamong the neighbouring states, they bound themselves.