OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 239 these people after this manner, as I have already related.Ptolemy also took Ptolemais by force, as we have declaredelsewhere. CHAP. XIII. How Alexander, upon the league of mutual defence 'which Cleo­patra had agreed with him, made an expedition against Cele-syria, and utterly overthrew the city of Gaza ,' and how he slewmany ten thousands of Jews that rebelled against him: Alsoconcerning Antiochus Grypus, Seleucus, Antiochus Cyzicenus,and Antiochus Pius, and others. § 1. W HEN Cleopatra saw that her son was grown great,and laid Judea waste without disturbance, and had gotten theeity of Gaza under his power, she resolved no longer tooverlook what he did, when he was almost at her gates; andshe concluded, that now he was so much stronger than before,he would be very desirous of the dominion over the Egyptians;but she immediately marched against him with a fleet at sea,and an army of foot on land, and made Chelsias and Ananias theJews, generals of her whole army, while she sent the greatestpart of her riches, her grand-children, and her testament, to thepeople of * Cos. Cleopatra also ordered her son Alexander tosail with a great fleet to Phenicia: and when that country hadrevolted, she came to Ptolemais; and because the people of Pto­lemais did not receive her, she besieged the city; but Ptolemywent out of Syria, and made haste into Egypt, supposing thathe should find it destitute of an army and soon take it, thoughhe failed of his hopes. At this time Chelcias, one of Cleopatra'sgenerals, happened to die in Celesyria, as he was in pursuitof Ptolemy. 2. When Cleopatra heard of her son's attempt, and that hisEgyptian expedition did not succeed according to his expecta­tions, she sent thither part of her army, and drove him out ofthat country, so when he was returried out of Egypt again,he abode during the winter at Gaza, in which time Cleopatratook the garrison that was in Ptolemais by siege, as well as thecity; and when Alexander came to her, he gave her presents,and such marks of respect as were but proper, since under themiseries he endured by Ptolemy, he had no other refuge but her. * The city, or island Cos, is not that remote island in the Egean Sea, famousfor the birth of the great Hippocrates, but a city or island of the same name,adjoining to Kgypt, mentioned both by Stephanus and Ptolemy, as Dr. Hudsoninforms us. Of which Cos, and the treasures there laid up by Cleopatra and theJews, see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. vii. § 2.