OCR Output 246 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. Athenians also took from them several towns upon the conti­nent which had belonged to the Mityleneans, and whichcontinued afterwards in subjection to the Athenians. Thusended the commotions of Lesbos. The same summer, after the reduction of Lesbos—theAthenians, commanded by Nicias* the son of Niceratus,executed a design upon Minoa, the island which lies beforeMegara. The Megareans, having built a fort upon it, • Nicias is now for the first time in the chief command, who is to actparts of very great importance in the sequel of the war. We should there­fore take some notice of him on his first appearance. Plutarch, who hathwrote his life, gives light into several circumstances, which fall not withinthe cognizance of a general historian. He was born of a noble family inAthens, and was one of the most wealthy citizens. Beside his estates, hehad a large annual income from the silver mines at Laurium. Not that thosemines belonged to him, as one would infer from Plutarch ; for they werethe patrimony of the State, annexed to it by Themistoclcs for the supportof the navy : But, as Xenophon relates, in his treatise of revenue, Nicias hada thousand slaves constantly employed in working these mines. He hiredthem out to Sosias the Thracian, who was undertaker of the work, on con-dition to receive a clear obole a day for every one of them ; and he alwayskept up the number. His income from hence was therefore near 2000/.sterling a year. He acted under Pericles so long as he lived; and, afterhis death, was set up by the more sober and sensible Athenians as a balanceto Cleon, who was the idol of the people. Nicias was a true lover of hiscountry, of unblemished integrity, and very gentle and complacent in hismanners. His good qualities were numerous and shining: His foibles werea great diffidence of himself, and a dread of the people, which made himcourt them by laying out his wealth in public games and shows for theirentertainment. He had an inward fund of real piety i but was supersti-tiously attached to the ceremonial of the religion of his country. His greatwealth drew a great number of followers and parasites about him ; and hisbenevolent disposition was always seeking occasions of doing good. Inshort, says Plutarch, " bad men had a sure fund in his pusillanimity, andgood men in his humanity." No body could either hate or fear him atAthens, and therefore his interest there was great. He was always cau­tious, and always diffident, and under such an awe of the people in the ge­neral assemblies, that they would shout out to him by way of encourage.inent, as his modesty was amiable and engaging when opposed to the im­pudence of Cleon.—^Thus much may suffice at present, since his militaryexpeditions and the whole of his political conduct will be related by Tintcydides.