OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP". Ht.iV. preference; but as the order of Justinian is different inhis three works, it is possible that all may be wrong ; andit is certain that two cannot be right. In the selectionof ancient laws, he seems to have viewed his predeces­sors without jealousy, and with equal regard: the seriescould not ascend above the reign of Hadrian, and thenarrow distinction of Paganism and Christianity, intro­duced by the superstition of Theodosius, had been abo^lished by the consent of mankind. But the jurispru­dence of the pandects is circumscribed within a periodof a hundred years, from the perpetual edict to the deathof Severus Alexander: the civilians who lived under thefirst Caesars, are seldom permitted to speak, and onlythree names can be attributed to the age of the republic-The favourite of Justinian (it has been fiercely urged)was fearful of encountering the light of freedom and thegravity of Roman sages. Tribonian condemned to ob­livion the genuine and native wisdom of Cato, the Scse-volas, and Sulpicius; while he invoked spirits more con­genial to his own, the Syrians, Greeks, and Africans^who flocked to the imperial court to study Latin as aforeign tongue, and jurisprudence as a lucrative profes­sion. But the ministers of Justinian' were instructed tolabour, not for the curiosity of antiquarians, but for theimmediate benefit of his subjects. It was their duty toselect the useful and practical parts of the Roman law;and the writings of the old republicans, however curiousor excellent, were no longer suited to the new systemof manners, religion, and government. Perhaps, if thepreceptors and friends of Cicero were still alive, our can­dour would acknowledge, that, except in purity of lan­guage,11 their intrinsic merit was excelled by the school; 'An ingenious and learned oration of Schullingius (Jurisprudentia Ante-Justinia-nea, p. 883—907.) justifies the choice of Tribouian, against the passionate charges ofFrancis Huttoman and his sectaries. k Strip away the crust of Tribonian, and allow for the use of technical words, andthe Latin of the Pandects will be found not unworthyof the silver age. It has been 1vehemently attacked by Laurentius Valla, a fastidious grammarian of the fifteenthcentury, and by his apologist Floridus Sabinus. It has been defended by Alciat anda nameless advocate most probably James Capellus). Their various treatises are