OCR Output 96 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ephielis, for so this calyx may be called, didnot cover the forehead; but was covered witha* golden plate, which had inscribed uponit the name of God, in sacred characters:and such were the ornaments of the high-priest. Now here one may wonder at the ill willwhich men bear to us, and which they pro­fess to be on account of our despising thatDeity which they pretend to honour; for ifany one do but consider the fabric of thetabernacle, and take a view of the garmentsof the high-priest, and of those vessels whichwe make use of in our sacred ministration, hewill find that our legislator was a divine man,and that we are unjustly reproached byothers; for if anyone, without prejudice, andwith judgment, look upon these things, he willfind they were every one made in imitationand representation of the universe; for whenMoses distinguished the tabernacle into threeparts,f and allowed two of them to the priests,as a place accessible and common, he deno­ted the land and the sea, for these are acces­sible to all; but when he set apart the thirddivision for God, it was because heaven isinaccessible to men. When he ordered twelveloaves to be set on the table, he denoted theyear, as distinguished into so many months.When he made the candlestick of seventyparts, he secretly intimated the decani,! orseventy divisions of the planets: and as to theseven lamps upon the candlesticks, they re­ferred to the course of the planets, of whichthat is the number; and for the veils, whichwere composed of four things, they declaredthe four elements, for the fine linen was pro- per to signify the earth, because the flaxgrows out of the earth; the .purple signifiedthe sea, because that colour is dyed by theblood of a shell-fish; the blue is fit to signifythe air; and the scarlet will naturally be anindication of fire. Now the vestment of thehigh-priest being made of linen, signified theearth; the blue denoted the sky, being likelightning in its pomegranates, and in the noiseof its bells resembling thunder; and theephod shewed that God had made the uni­verse of four elements; and as for the goldinterwoven, I suppose it related to the splen­dour by which all things are enlightened. Healso appointed the breast-plate to be placedin the middle of the ephod, to resemble theearth, for that has the very middle place inthe world; and the girdle which encomf assedthe high-priest round, signified the ocean,which goes round about, and includes theuniverse. Each of the sardonyxes declaresto us the sun and the moon; those I meanthat were in the nature of buttons on the high-priests' shoulders. And for the twelve stones,whether we understand by them the months,or the like number of the signs of that circlewhich the Greeks call the Zodiac, we shallnot be mistaken in their meaning. The mitre,which was of a blue colour, seems to me todenote heaven; for how otherwise could thename of God be inscribed upon it? It wasalso illustrated with a crown of gold, becauseof that splendour with which God is pleased.Let this explication|| suffice at present, sincethe course of my narration will, on many occa­sions, afford an opportunity of enlarging onthe virtue of our legislator. * The reader ought to take notice, that the very Mo­saic «£TaXov, or golden plate, for the forehead of theJewish high-priest, was itself preserved, not only till thedays of Josephus, but of Origen; and that its inscription,Holiness to the Lord, was in the Samaritan characters.See Antiq. VIII. 3, and Reland, De Spol. Templi, page132, 133. t When Josephus, both here and chap. 6, supposes thetabernacle to have been divided into three parts, he seemsto esteem the bare entrance to be a third division, dis­tinct from the holy, and the most holy places:' and this therather, because in the temple afterward there was a dis­tinct third part, which was called the porch. OtherwiseJosephus would contradict his own description of thetabernacle, which gives us a particular account of nomore than two parts. J These Decani, or seven times ten parts for the pla­nets, are described in Julius Firmicus Maturnus; to whomthe reader is referred. || This explication of the mystical meaning of the Jew- ish tabernacle, and its vessels, with the garments of thehigh-priest, is taken out of Philo, and adapted to Gentilephilosophical notions. This may possibly be forgiven inJews greatly versed in heathen learning and philosophy,as Philo had ever been, and as Josephus had long beenwhen he wrote these Antiquities. In the mean time it isnot to be doubted but in their education they must haveboth learned more Jewish interpretations, such I mean aswe meet with in the epistle of Barnabas, in that to the He­brews, and elsewhere among the old Jews. Accordingly,when Josephus wrote his books of the Jewish War, for theuse of the Jews, at which time he was comparatively youflg,and less used to Gentile books, we find one specimen ofsuch a Jewish interpretation: for there, VII. 5, he makesthe seven branches of the temple candlesticks, with theirseven lamps, an emblem of the seven days of creation andrest, which are here emblems of the seven planets; norought ancient Jewish emblems to be explained any other­wise than according to ancient Jewish, and not Gentile,notions. See of the War. I. 33.