OCR Output 346 MESSENIACUS SINUS. METAPONTUM. cf the western coast stood Mkthonk, supposed tobe the Homeric Pedasus. North of Methone, on the\V. coast, was Pyi.L'8, on the promontory Corypha-sium, opposite to which was the island Sphacteria.Further north, was the small town Ekana, andthen the more important Cyfakissia; beyond whichwas a place Aulon, at the entrance of the defile ofthis name, through which flowed the river Cy-parissus. (On the geography of Messerua, see Leake, Morea,vol. i. pp. 324, seq.; Boblaye, Richerchet, p. 103,aeq; Curtius, Ptloponncsot, vol ii. p. 121, seq.) COIH Or MKSSKMIA. MESSENIACUS SINUS. [Mehsknia.] MESUA, in Gallia Narboncnsis, is described byMela (ii. 5) *' as a hill surrounded by the sea almoston all sides, and it would be an island if it were notjoined to the mainland by a narrow agger." Theplace is supposed to be Mam or Mt-ze.. on the borderof the 1 in--] de Ton, between Agde and ifonl-pellier. [G. L.] METAGONITAE (MeTo-yamTa!, Ptol. iv. 2.§ 10), a people of Mauritania, between the Mulu-cha and the Pillars of Hercules. Their name re­calls the t i:i.i •, MKTAOOxrriCAr. (MtTaywtiiTwvwdAtit, Polyb. iii. 33), or settlements founded by theCarthaginian? on the NW. coast, and which seem tohave formed a regular chain from their frontier tothe Pillars of Hercules (Scyl. p. 81). These martsenabled the republic to carry on inland trade withthe nomad tribes, as well as to keep open a commu*nication by land with Spain. (Heeren, AfricanNiUif>iu, vol. i. p. 52, transl.) [E. B. .1.] METAGONTTES PROM. (M.TcrywiTnt &*,*,•>,Ptol. iv. 1. § 7), a headland of Mauretania Tingi-tana, W. of the Mulucha, now Cape Tret Forcat orJitit~tid-f)ehir of the natives. [E. B. J.] METAGO'NIUM (MenrycovioK, Strab. xvii. pp.827—829 ; Pomp. Mela, i. 7. § 1), a headland ofN. Africa, which Strabo (i c.) places over againstCarthago Nova, at a distance of 3000 stadia. Hedescribes the district about it as being dry andbarren, and bearing the same name ; the headland isnow called Jiat-eUHartbab. (Coup. Shaw, Trur.p. 94.) [E.B.J.] METALLI'NUM. [MKTrxuxuM.] MEIALLUM. [Matalia.] METAPA (ii M*vowa: Fill. Mtrawaiot, Mera-vtvj),atown in Aetolia,situateilon the northern shoreof the lake Trichonis, at the entrance of a narrowdefile, and 60 stadia from Thermnm. It was burntby Philip, on his invasion of Aetolia, B.C. 218, ashe returned from the capture of Thermnm. Its sitecannot he fixed with certainty, notwithstanding thedescription of Polybius. I<eake places it immediatelybelow Vrakkori, near the eastern extremity of thelake Hyria, or the smaller of the two lakes; sup­pling that as these two lakes are connected witbone another, the larger division may often have givenname to the whole. (Pol. v. 7, 13; Stepli. B. «. ».; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 150, seq. j tan. TllKKMl'M.) METAPINUM OSTIUM. [RHonAHra.] METAPONTUM or METAPONTUM (Mrra-TOKrtov: Thuc, Strab., and all Greek writers hawthis form; the Latins almost universally Metapue-tuin: F.th. MeTaroFTirof, Paus., Steph. B-, anaon coins; but Herod, has MeTaayfrriw; in 1 ■tilMetapontinus: Ru. near Torre di Mart), as bn-portant city of Magna Graecia, situated on the railof Tarentum, between the river Bradanus and lh*Casuentus. It was distant about 14 miles franHeraclea and 24 from Tarentum. Historicallyspeaking, there is no doubt that Metaponttun was aGreek city founded by an Achaean colony; but va­rious traditions assigned to it a much earlier origin.Strabo ascribes its foundation to a body of Pyiians apart of those who had followed Nestor to Troy(Strab. v. p. 222, vi. p. 264); while Justin tells asit was founded by Epeius, the hero who constructedthe wooden horse at Troy; in proof of which the in­habitants showed, in a temple of Minerva, the taolaused by him on that occasion. (Justin, xx. 1 )Another tradition, reported by Ephoros (ap. Sink.p. 264), assigned to it a Phocian origin, and calledDaulius, the tyrant of Crisa near Delphi, its founder.Other legends carried back its origin to a still Boraremote period. Antiochos of Syracuse said that itwas originally called Mctabua, from _a hero of thatname, who appears to have been identified witb theMctapontns who figured in the Greek mythicalstory as the husband of Melanippe and father ofAeolus and Boeotus. (Antioch. ap. Strab. L e.;Hygin. Fab. 186; Eustath. ad Diunye. Ptr. 368;Diod. iv. 67.) Whether there may have really been a settlemecton the spot more ancient than the Achaean colony,we have no means of determining; but we are toidthat at the time of the foundation of this city thesite was unoccupied; for which reason the Achaeansettlers at Crotona and Sybaris were deairoaj tecolonise it, in order to prevent the Tarentines fronttaking possession of it. With this view awas sent from the mother-country, under the <mand of a leader named Leucippus, who, Ito one account, was compelled to obtain the teby a fraudulent treaty. Another and a moresibie statement is that the new colonists wen atfirst engaged in a contest with the Tarrntinea, aswell as the neighbouring tribes of the Oei»«nans,which was at length terminated by a treaty, leavingthem in the peaceable possession of the territvythey had acquired. (Strab. vi. pp. 264, 265.) Thedate of the colonisation of Metapontum cannot b>determined with certainty; but it was i liileaali.from the circumstances just related, subsequent t>that of Tarentum, aa well as of Sybaris and Crotona:hence the date assigned by Eusebion, who woaMcarry it back as far as B.C. 774, la wholly un­tenable; nor is it easy to see bow such an error ranhave arisen. (Euseb. Arm. Ckron. p. 99.) It mayprobably be referred to about 700—490 B. c We hear very little of Metapontum daring thefirst ages of its existence; but it seems certain thanit rose rapidly to a considerable amount of nreaprr-.tv,for which it was indebted to the extreme frrtihry afits territory. The same policy which had lad to itsfoundation would naturally unite it in the bands of nclose alliance with the other Achaean cities. Sybarisand Crotona; and the first occasion on which atmeet with it* name in history is as jr.