OCR Output SCARPOXA. "29 SCEPSIS. rrpbtU to Ileradeia (xxxiii. 3). Hence the townmv be placed between the modern villages ofUlrmind Molo. (Leake, Northern Grace, vol. ii.. K8.) Scarpheia is said by Strabo to have been*tr«ed by an inundation of the sea caused by aninvoke (i. p. 60), but it most have been alter-in!* rebuilt, as it is mentioned by subsequentr'mdoira to a late period. (Phn. iv. 7. s. 12;W.iii.15. § 11; Hierocl. p. 643; Geog. Rav. iv.0; C«st Porpbyr. dt Them, ii. 5. p. 51, Bonn.)irjoaa i> also mentioned by Lycophr. 1147; Syr. 19; Paus. ii. 29. § 3, x. 1. § 2.M'ARi'O'NA or SCARPONNA, in Gallia, is•ml is the Antonine Itin. and in the Tsble on atl tetwten Tullum (Tout) and Divodurum ( Jfete).kt t«o lathocitie* agree in placing it at the dis-» nf z. from Tullum; bnt the Itin. makes theittat* fntn Scarpona to Divodurum xii., and theibie makes it xiiii. The larger number comesinr to tie truth, for the place is Charpagne, on > Afojal An inscription has been found at Char-it. which is as follows: "imvir viarnmiei Sake". V. a P. M. Scarp. Civit. Leuc."upw vu in the territory of the Leuci. [I.El'CI.]n™, Eqattorn Magister, defeated the Alemannii Varpnona in A. D. 366. in the reign of Valsn-jb tad Valens. (Amm. Marc, xxvii. 2; D'AnviUe,•W. 4V.: Ukert, CaUea, p. 506.) [G. L.] <* i..VAf (Xrqnl). 1. A town of Mesopotamia > <anal from the Euphrates, and on the bordersbakilooia, 18 schoeni from Seleucia, and 25 days'vv from the passage of the Euphrates atrata. (Strab. xvi. p. 748.) It belonged to the*fal and nomadic tribe of the Scenitae, andvan, though called by Strabo ifidAo-yo* wrfAu, probably only a city of tents, as, indeed, itsr raphes. Vuai Maxdiuk, a place in Middle Egypt, > r.gbt bank of the Nile, between AphroditopolisBabylon, a little SE. of Memphis, (/fas. Ant.0) It had a Roman garrison, and in later• became the see of a Christian bishop. (A'ot. trap. Weaaeling, ad Itm. I. e.) Nocae V'nsKAiioct'M, a place in Lower<ss an arm of the Nile, and on the road fromto Vlrna Jodaeorum. (/tsa. Ant. pp. 163,) It by SVY. of Bubastus. [T. H. D.].'EMTAE (Xravrrcu), a general name for»> Arab tribes in Pliny, often distinguished by**t*rappellation. Thus, towards the lower part■ Euphrates, beyond the " Attali latrones, Ara­rat*," he places the Scenitae (vi. 26), whom he-r* again more fully (c 28), " Nomad as inde*[<neque Chaidaeorum Scenitae, nt diximus■it, at ipai vagi, sod a tabemaculis cognominati,riLcua roeCastur, ubi libuit. Deinde Nabataei,"Tbra again below the confluence of the Eu-e» and Tigris be places tin Nomadea Soe-■i the right bank of the river, the Chaldaei onft. He » peaks also of the Scenitae Sabaei.» also uses the name in the same latitude ofA30B of many various tribes of Arabia, Syria,Hnripotamis (see Index, #. v.); but Ptolemy:« litem a definite seat near the mountains stretch along the north of the peninsula, of the Thaditae (ni Oadrtae) and Saraceni'§ 21): and in this vicinity, towards the~x_ it is that Ammianns Marcellinus placesi~rtc Arabs, whom posterity called Saracens 6) fSAKACJCWl] The remark nf BochartiHve borne out by authorities: "Ubi Sce- nitas Eratosthenes, ibi Saracenos ponunt Procopiuset Marcianus. Saraceni nimirum a Scenitis hocsolum diflerunt, quod Scenitarum nomen est vetus-titis." (ffeoor.Sacr.iv.2. p. 213.) [G.W.] SCEPSIS (Xrijd-ii: Eth. 2*i,+tot),» to™ >n theSE. of Mysia, on the river Aesepus, 150 stadia to theSE. of Alexandria Truss, and not far from Dicle, one ofthe highest points of Mount Ida, It was apparently aplace of the highest antiquity; for it was believed tohave been founded immediately after the time of theTrojan War, and Demetrius, a native of the place,considered it to have been the capital of the domi­nions of Aeneas. (Strab. xiii. p. 607). The sameauthor stated that the inhabitants were transferredby Scamandrius, the son of Hector, and Ascanius.the son of Aeneas, to another site, lower down theAesepus, about 60 stadia from the old place, and thatthere a new town of the same name was founded.The old town after this was distinguished from thenew one by the name of Palaescepsis. For two ge­nerations the princes of the house of Aeneas main­tained themselves in the new town; but the form ofgovernment then became an oligarchy. Daring thisperiod,colonists from Miletus joined the Scepsians, andinstituted a democratic form of government. Thedescendants of the royal family, however, still con­tinued to enjoy the regal title and some other dis­tinctions. (Strab. /. e. comp. xiii. p. 603; xiv. p.635; Plin. v. 2; Steph. B. s. r.) In the time ofXenophon (II til. iii. 1. § 15), Scepsis belonged toMania, a Dardanian princess; and after her deathit was seized by Meidias, who had married herdaughter; but Dercyllidas, who had obtained admissioninto the town under some pretext, expelled Meidias,and restored the sovereign power to the citizens.After this we hear no more of Scepsis until the timeof the Macedonian supremacy, when Antigonustransferred its inhabitants to Alexandria Troas, onaccount of their constant quarrels with tlie townof Cebrene in their neighbourhood. Lysimachusafterwards allowed them to return to their ancienthome, which at a later time became subject to thokings of Pergamum. (Strab. xiii. p. 597.) Thisnew city became an important seat of learning andphilosophy, and is celebrated in the history of theworks of Aristotle. Strabo (xiii. p. 608) relates thatNeleus of Scepsis, a pupil of Aristotle and friend ofTheophrastus, inherited the library of the latter,which also contained that of Aristotle. After Ne­leus' death the library came into the hands of per­sons who, not knowing its value, and being unwillingto give them up to the library which tile Pergamoniankings were collecting, concealed these literary trea­sures in a pit, where they were exposed to injuryfrom damp and worms. At length, however, theywere rescued from this place and sold to Apelliconof Tens. The books, in a very mutilated condition,were conveyed to Athens, and thence they were car­ried by Sulla to Rome. It is singular that Scylax(p. 36) enumerates Scepsis among the Aeoliancoast-towns; for it is evident from Strabo (coinp.Demosth. c. Aristocr. p. 671) that it stood at a con­siderable distance from the see. The town of Palae­scepsis seems to have been abandoned entirely, for inPliny's time (v. 33) not a vestige of it existed,while Scepsis is mentioned by Hierocles (p. 664)and the ecclesiastical notices of bishoprics. In theneighbourhood of Scepsis there existed very produc­tive silver mines. It was the birthplace of Deme­trius and Mctnxlorus. The fonner, who bestowedmuch labour on the topography of Troas, spoke of