OCR Output CUAP. 47. ROMAN HISTORY. 471' up his arms, and spreading the alarm, flew to the ram­part, and whilst the rest were in a mighty consternation,•with the boss of his buckler he beat back a Gaul, whohad by that time reached the top of the battlement, andhe, in his fall, tumbled down those who were nexthim, whilst Manlius killed others, who throwing downtheir arms in the utmost terror, hung by their handson the rocks. By this time too; others had crowdedto theplace, and with stones and darts precipitated the rest, sothat the whole of these adventurers tumbled headlongfrom the top to the bottom of the rock. When the confusion was over, the rest of the nightwas devoted to repose, as far as could be enjoyed aftersuch an alarm, and solicitude for the danger that waspast. Early next morning, the military tribunes assem­bler! the troops by sound of trumpet, in onler to dispenserewards and punishments, as merit, or demerit shouldappear. First of all, Manlius was praised for his nobleexertions; and had presents, not.only from ihe military*tribunes, but from all the soldier*; for each of them car­ried to his house, which stood in the citadel, half a poundmeal, and a measure of wine containing five ounces. reward, considerable only as it was a singular proof oftheir affection, when in the extreme scarcuy of provi­sions, they could part with their very living, to do ho­nour to the merit of one man. The centinels on that post, where the enemy hadescaped their vigilance and climbed up the rock, werecalled upon next; and though Sulpicius, the militarytribune. sentenced them all to die according to the lawsof military 'iscipline, yet as all the soldiers faid the blameupon one centinel, he 'was afraid oF a in'iM'v an"! sorespited the rest. With the approbation of the whole,he who was undeniably in the wrong, was thrown overjhe rock. From thenceforth, the guards were kept onboth sides with more attention. On the part of the Gauls,because it was commonty talked, that a correspondencewas kept up between Roait and Veii; and on thai of theRomans, from a retrospect of the danger they had escap­ed in the night. i