OCR Output 238 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. said, eighty thousand. He then took his army, and went tomeet Ptolemy; but Ptolemy fell upon Assochis, a city of Ga­lilee, and took it by force on the sabbath day, and there he tookabout ten thousand slaves, and a great deal of other prey. 5. He then tried to take Sepphoris, which was a city notfar from that which was destroyed, but lost many of his men;yet did he then go to fight with Alexander, which Alexandermet him at the river Jordan, near a certain place called Sappoth,[not far from the river Jordan,] and pitched his camp near tothe enemy. He had however eight thousand in the first rank,which he stiled Hecatontomachi, having shields of brass. Thosein the first rank of Ptolemy's soldiers, also had shields coveredwith brass: but Ptolemy's soldiers in other respects were in­ferior to those of Alexander, and therefore were more fearfulof running hazards: but Philostephanus the camp master, putgreat courage into them, and ordered them to pass the river,which was between their camps: Nor did Alexander think fitto hinder their passage over it, for he thought, that if the ene­my had once gotten the river on their back, that he should theeasier take them prisoners, when they could not flee out of (hebattle: In the beginning of which, the acts on both sides, withtheir hands, and with their alacrity, were alike, and a greatslaughter was made by both the armies; but Alexander was su­perior, till Philostephanus opportunely brought up the auxili­aries, to help those that were giving way; but as there were noauxiliaries to afford help to that part of the Jews that gave way,it fell out that they fled, and those near them did not assist them,but fled along with them. However, Ptolemy's soldiers actedquite otherwise; for they followed the Jews, and killed them,till at length those that slew them pursued "after them, whenthey had made them all run away, and slew them so long, thattheir weapons of iron were blunted, and their hands quite tiredwith the slaughter; for the report was, that thirty thousandmen were then slain. Timagenes says, they were fifty thousand.As for the rest, they were part of them taken captives, and theother part ran away to their own country. 6. After this victory, Ptolemy overran all the country;and when night came on, he abode in certain villages of Judea,which when he found full of women and children, he commandedhis soldiers to strangle them, and to cut them in pieces, and thento cast them into boiling caldrons, and then to devour theirlimbs as sacrifices. This commandment was given, that suchas fled from the battle, and-came to them, might suppose theirenemies were cannibals, and eat men's flesh, and might on thataccount be still more terrified at them upon such a sight. Andboth Strabo and Nicholaus [of Damascus] affirm, that they used