OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 279 not send ambassadors to any other place than to Rome;and that if any such should come to Carthage, theyshould not dismiss them until the Roman general wasmade acquainted with their business. With the Car­thaginian ambassadors were sent to Rome Lucius Ve-turius Philo, Marcius Ralla, and Lucius Scipio, thegeneral's brother. From that time the great suppliesfrom Sicily and Sardinia caused such cheapness ofprovisions, that the merchant often furnished corn tothe mariners for the freight. At Rome there had beensome uneasiness on the first account of the Carthagi­nians having recommenced hostilities, and TiberiusClaudius had been ordered to conduct the fleet toSicily with all expedition, and to pass over fromthence to Carthage; and the other consul, MarcusServilius, to remain in the city, until the state of affairsin Africa should be known. Tiberius Claudius pro­ceeded slowly in every step towards the equipmentand sailing of the fleet, being offended at the senatehaving voted that Scipio, in preference to the consul,should have the honor of prescribing the terms ofpeace. Accounts of prodigies also, arriving a littlebefore the news of the revival of hostilities, had raisedpeople's apprehensions. At Cumae, the orb of the sunseemed to be diminished, and a shower of stones fell;and in the district of Veliturnum, the earth sunk ingreat chasms, in which trees were swallowed. At Ari-cia, the forum, and shops round it; at Frusino, severalparts of the wall, and a gate, were struck by lightning.On the Palatine hill, too, a shower of stones fell. Thisprodigy, according to the method handed down by tra­dition, was expiated by a nine days' solemnity; theothers by the greater victims. Among the rest, anunusual overflowing of the rivers was also consideredas a prodigy; for there was such an inundation of theTiber, that, the circus being filled with water, prepa­rations for the games of Apollo were made on the out­side of the Colline gate, near the temple of VenusErycina. But on the very day of the games, theweather suddenly clearing up, the procession, which