OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 305 was intrepid; yet such is the uncertainty of courage,that the two armies were suddenly struck with a panic:they fled from each other, and the rival kings remainedwith their guards in the midst of an empty plain. A shorttruce was obtained; but their mutual resentment againkindled; and the remembrance of their shame renderedthe next encounter more desperate and bloody. Fortythousand of the barbarians perished in the decisive battle,which broke the power of the Gepidae, transferred thefears and wishes of Justinian, and first displayed the cha­racter of Alboin, the youthful prince of the Lombards,and the future conqueror of Italy.1* The wild people, who dwelt or wandered in the plains Th»Scla-of Russia, Lithuania, and Poland, might be reduced, inthe age of Justinian, under the two great families of theBulgarians' and the Sclavonians, According to theGreek writers, the former, who touched the Euxine andthe lake of Maeotis, derived from the Huns their nameor descent; and it is needless to renew the simple andwell-known picture of Tartar manners. They werebold and dexterous archers, who drank the milk, and feast­ed on the flesh, of their fleet and indefatigable horses;whose flocks and herds followed, or rather guided, themotions of their roving camps; to whose inroads nocountry was remote or impervious, and who were prac­tised in flight, though incapable of fear. The nationwas divided into two powerful and hostile tribes, whopursued each other with fraternal hatred. They eagerlydisputed the friendship or rather the gifts of the empe­ror; and the distinction which nature had fixed between k I have used, without undertaking to reconcile, the facts in Procopins, (Goth. lib.3. c. 14. lib. 3. c. 33, 34. lib. 4. c. 18. 25.) Paul Diaconus, (de Gestis Langohard.lib. 1. c. 1—23. in Muratori, Script. Rerum Italicarum, toni. 1. p. 405'—419.) andJornandes. (de Success. Regnorum, p. 242.) The patient reader ma; draw somelight from Masoou (Hist, of the Germans, and Annptat. 23.) and de Boat. (Hist. desPeuples, &c. tom. 9—11.) 1 I adopt the appellation of Bulgarians, from Ennodius, (in Panegyr. Theodorici^Opp. Sirmohd, tom. \. p. 1598,1599.) Jornandes, (de Rebus Geticis, c. 5. p. 194. etde Regn. Successione, p. 242.) Theophanes, (p. 185.) and the Chronicles of Cassio-dorius and Marcellinus. The name of Hans is too vague; the tribes of the Cuttiir-'gurians and Utturguriaus are too minute aud too harsh,.