OCR Output KOMA. 751 iS Vcncaa, as Urlicbs assumes (Btschr. vol.i p. 17), mk» in that can the portico must hare ■ n—t the road leading ont of the Porta Ratumena. A liab beyond the last named gate the wall mustan joined the Capitoline hill, along which, as weMid, there was no other fortification but thefri^ium nature of the ground, rendered here andsrre aS more abrupt bj escarpment. At the S\V.lrrrirarr of the hill the wall most have been re-. i«t, and most undoubtedly have ran in a directcramn the abort space between the Capitoline hill-a the Tiber. Between this spot and the Arentine:» wall was discontinued; and this is the part '»i «» by IHonyaiuj (i. c.) as sufficiently defended > tin am. The piece of wall just mentioned have that oat the Forum 01 i tori urn and Circus.uiduoa, since Aaonriua (ad Cic. Tog. Cand. p. 90,red.) ejections a temple of Apollo, which was•■■•sled between those places, as being outside theXIX I .iiKuniK This gate lay just at the foot 'Ji Capitol, and is one of the most certain entrances <ar Servian city. It was named after a fane orlar of Canornia. the motlier of Evander, which**i tame h_ This altar is mentioned by Dionysios 32 i, and appears to have existed long after hisx. >.we it was seen by A. Gellius (xviii. 7) and Vraii (ad Virg. Am. viii. 337.) The street*d Cm Jugarius ran from the Porta Carmentalisra* the base of the Capitoline to the Forum, as ban frecnLivy sdescription(xxvii.37)of the pro-raaa af the virgins to the temple of Juno Regina Mm Aventine, when two white heifers were ledn tii« temple of Apollo before mentioned throughi Pwta Carmentalis and Vicus Jngarius to them. The exact site of the gate was probably at to the KW. of the church of S. Omotxmo.r.-» pracipaJ gales of Rome had commonly more-a or thoroaghfare These arcliways, or passages, > aJied Furnicea and Jani. Cicero's etymologyta* aUter word ebows the meaning attached oneujfa the etymology itself is absurd (" Absomen est ductum: ex quo transitionesraw Jani, foreaqoe in bminibus profanamman jmmmae numinantur," Xat. JJeor. ii. 27).hat* already said that the right Janus off«ta Certoentahs, on going out of the town,frardnJ as ill-omened, and branded with thea> sf Porta SccJcrala, from its having been thatsarb wn-t li the Fabti passed on their fatal expe- ■ t> tka Cnrmera. (Lav. ii. 49.) So Ovid {Fust r—»-ntis) prsrtae dextro via proxima Jano est:• yer banc noli, quisquis es, omen babel,"■a (p. 284,31011). Servius (.(.«.viii.,337),and■at ^i. 5) hare completely misunderstood theseajare a a|»plying *"* *pitbet sceleralu to theP p*. ns we bare before remarked.l>. .burt piece of wall between the Capitolineaaj that Tiber there mast have been at least>er g-— besides the Carmentalis, namely thela Fix-auucTASA. It is mentioned by Cicerou ri- 3). and ita situation near the river mayptmrj not only from its name, but also from—* in Livr, w hich mention it in connection withy.. _ (axvrr. 9, 21). Plutarch also (Utho, 4)IJB M ^ftmt jsursoation which had caused much(•? in that corn-market, at that time held in the— • afr"""* Frumentaria, near the Forum (AeC Reff. ix,); bat the words of Paulus '- who says that a rurt of the Tiber once actually Bowed through this gale(" Flumentana Porta Komae appellata, quod Tiber ispartem ea fluxisae affirmant," p. 89, Mull.) The siteis further confirmed by a passage in Varro alludingto the populousness of the suburb just outside thegate: " Nam quod extra urbem est aedificium, nihilomagis ideo est villa, quum eorum aedificia quihabitant extra portam Flumentanam, aut in Aemi-lianis" (R. R. iii. 2). This neighbourhood hadearly become very thickly inhabited, as is evidentfrom the many porticoes, theatres, temples and otherbuildings, which are mentioned there (see Preller,Regiontn, p. 156, seq.) But Livy's narrative of thetrial of Manlius (vi. 20) is one of the most strikingproofs of the situation of the P. Flumentana, thoughit is a stumbling-block to those who hold that thotemple of Jupiter was on the SW. summit of thoCapitoline hill. A spot near the place where theCircus Flaminius afterwards stood was at that timeused for the assemblies of the Comitia Centuriata, bywhich Manlius was tried. From this place both theCapitol and the Arx were visible; and Manlius hudproduced a great effect upon his judges by callingupon them to pronounce their verdict in the sightof those very gods whose temple he had preserved:"Ut Capitolium atque arcem intuentes, ut nd dcosimmortales versi, de se judicarent." In order todeprive him of this appeal the tribunes adjournedthe assembly to a spot just outside the Porta Flu­mentana, called "lucus Poetelinus," whence theCapitol could not be seen (" unde conspectus in Ca­pitolium non esset"). A glance at any map of Romowill Bhow that this was the only spot in the CampusMartins where the temple, from its lieing hidden bythe SW. summit, which we assume to have been thaArx, was concealed from view. The tribunes woulddoubtless have been glad to conceal the Arx also,had it been in their power; but an appeal to thoArx alone would have lacked the effect of the rt-Ugw which swayed so much with tho superstitiousRomans. They were no longer in the presence ofthose rescued deities in whose sight Manlius hadinvoked their judgment. There is no occasiontherefore to try, with Becker, to alter Livy's text,by reading Frumentaria for Flnmentana, or seek toplace the scene of the trial at another spot, sincethe Comitia Centuriata were usually assembled inthe Campus. The ancient topographers, as well as the modemItalians (Nibby, Mura, <fc. p. 132 ; Canina, Indi'cmionc Topognifica, pp. 34, 632, ed. 1850), placeanother gate, the Porta TmuuriiALls. betweenthe Carmentalis and the Flumentana. That therewas such a gate is certain, since it is frequentlymentioned in classical authors, but unfortunately io.Buch a manner that no decided inference can bedrawn respecting its situation. Hence varioustheories have been advanced on the subject, whichhave led to warm controversies. The German schoolof topographers, tliough not united among them­selves, have agreed in departing from the Italianview, chiefly because it apjjrars to them absurd toimagine that there could have been three gales inso short a piece of wall. If, however, as it M ill beshown to be probable, the Porta Triumphalis wasopened only ou occasions of state, there really seemsto bo very little force in this objection. Bunsenand his followers allow that it formed a real entranceinto the city, but strangely enough make it leadinto the Circus Maximus; whilst Becker, on thoother hand, holds that it was no gate at all properly