OCR Output 102 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. distributing the occupied domain-land was prosecuted withzeal and energy; and, in fact, proofs to that effect are not132. wanting. As early as 622 the consul of that year, PubliusPopillius, the same who presided over the prosecutions of theadherents of Tiberius Gracchus, recorded on a public monu­ment that he was "the first who had turned the shepherdsout of the domains and installed farmers in their stead;"and tradition otherwise affirms that the distribution ex­tended over all Italy, and that in the formerly existingcommunities the number of farms was everywhere aug­mented—for it was the design of the Sempronian agrarianlaw to elevate the farmer-class not by the founding of newcommunities, but by the strengthening of those already inexistence. The extent and the comprehensive effect of thesedistributions are attested by the numerous arrangementsin the Roman art of land-measuring referable to theGracchan assignations of land: for instance, the due placingof boundary-stones so as to obviate future mistakes appearsto have been first suggested by the Gracchan courts fordefining boundaries and by the distributions of land. But thenumbers on the burgess-rolls give the clearest evidence. The 131. census, which was published in 623 and actually took place 132. probably in the beginning of 622, yielded not more than319,000 burgesses capable of arms, whereas six years after- 125. wards (629) in place of the previous falling off (P. 85) the num­ber rises to 395,000, that is 70,000 of an increase—beyondall doubt solely in consequence of what the allotment com­mission did for the Roman burgesses. Whether it multipliedthe Italian farms in the same proportion may be doubted;at any rate what it did accomplish yielded a great andbeneficent result. It is true that this result was notachieved without various violations of respectable interestsand existing rights. The allotment-commission, composedof the most decided partisans, and absolute judge in its owncause, proceeded with its labours in a reckless and hastymanner; public notices summoned every one who was ableto do so to give information regarding the extent of thedomain-lands; the old land-registers were inexorably referredto, and not only was occupation new and old revokedwithout distinction, but in various cases actual private pro­perty, as to which the holder was unable satisfactorily toprove his tenure, was also confiscated. Loud and for themost part well founded as were the complaints, the senate