OCR Output PELASGI. PELASGI. 565 Zi*Wt,tl* whole of Italy was, if we are to be­lt* u* authorities adduced, inhabited in ancienttin b; the Pelasgians. In later times they appearanaaW the Italiots; the common fate of originalam that bare been subjugated. Cp> tbM and similar traditions Niebuhr haspwatad i hypothesis, which at present is generallysMtttiaad igainst which conclusive objections can■Vf bt natd from the side of comparative philology,leadicr. to Niebuhr, the Pelasgians were the originalMskuo, Dot only of Greece, but also of Italy.9km tu s time, be said, when the Pelasgians,fcawl; perhaps the moot widely-spread people inaWeot, inhabited all the countries from the Arnusidu to the Bosporus; not as wandering tribes,enters of history represent it, but as finnly-pvwerfa!, honourable people. This time lies,most part, before the beginning of ourhistory. However, at the time that thesod Hellanicua wrote, there were onlyand scattered fragments of this— at of the Celtic race in Spain —summit*, which stand out like islands• lowlands hare been changed by floods intoThese sporadic Pelasgic tribes did not seemHpVI1' ■■ ■ to be fragments and relics, butthat had been sent out and had migrated,•qvaDy scattered colonies of the Hellenes,ie numerous traditions about the expeditionsof the Pelasgi AH tliese traditionsthe slightest historical value. They aresat a hypothesis of the logographers, framedat supposition that those scattered coloniesPelasgi had arisen and were produced by a•f mirations. There is nothing historicalexcept, indeed, the fact which lies at thethe hypothesis, namely, the existence inof scattered Pelasgic tribes,—a fact which,npbea much inure the original greatnessof the Pelasgic nation. If the Pelas-gndually aa historical times begin, thethis is, that they were transformed into otherThus, in Greec« they became graduallyas a nation which, in spite of all distinc-artaally related to the Hellenes ; and eventhey form a considerable portion of the laterffcj—iiimli which owed their origin in thethe mixture of races. element which the Latin Un­it, according to this view of Nie-and owes ita origin to the Pelasgianthe Latin nation, which Niebuhr and(Etrusier) agree in finding in the k aj|a!afsrii of Xiebuhr's, generally receivedi» aevvrtheleaa, a sound historical found-PssW received at the hands of SchwegteriCwca.) a careful examination, and is con-Tel the following grounds: — ■aimcc of any indigenous name for thelit Italy. rriaant traces of Roman writers on theMf obtained their information from the Hav o^iradictory accounts i given by different arf tat ■sig.laiiisni "f the PeUsgians, accord-Hellanicua and Pherecydes or of anj historical monument ofy, whether literary or of another It only remains to make a few general observa­tions on the evidence for the existence of the Pelasgi,and on the views taken by modern writers on thesubject. ). The modem authorities on the Pelasgi inGreece are: Larcher, Chronologic (Tfferodote, ch.viii. pp.215—217; K. 0. Miiller Etrusker, vol. i.Einleitung, ch. ii. pp. 75—100; Kruse, Jh Has,vol. i. p. 398—425; Mannert. Geographie, part viii.introduction, p. 4; Thirlwall, History of Greece,ch. ii.; Grote, vol. i. ch. ix., vol. ii. ch. ii. sub finem.The latter historian treats of the Pelasgi as belong­ing not to historical, but legendary Greece. Hesays, " Whoever has examined the many conflictingsystems respecting the Pelasgi, — from the literalbelief of Cluvier, Larcher, and Kaoul-Kochette, tothe interpretative and half-incredulous processesapplied by abler men, such as Niebuhr, or 0. Muller,or Dr. Thirlwall, — will not be displeased with myresolution to decline so insoluble a problem. Noattested facts are now present to us — none werepresent to Herodotus or Thucydides even in theirage — on which to build trustworthy affirmationsrespecting the ante-Hellenic Pelasgians; and, whensuch is the case, we may without impropriety applythe remark of Herodotus respecting one of thetheories which he had heard for explaining the in­undation of the Nile by a supposed connection withthe ocean — that the man who carries up his storyinto the invisible world, passes out of the range ofcriticism.*' (Vol. ii. p. 345.) Those who thinkMr. Grote's way of disposing of the question toosummary, will find it treated with great patienceand a fair spirit of criticism by Bishop Thirlwall.The point on which he and Mr. Grote differ —namely, the question whether the language of thePelasgi was a rough dialect of the Hellenic, or non-Hellenic— has been already referred to. Ah wepossess no positive data for determining it, it isneedless to do more than refer the reader to thepassages quoted. Respecting the architectural re­mains of the Pelasgi in Greece, a very few wordswill suffice. The Gate of the Lions at Mycenae, men­tioned by Pausanias (ii. 15—16), is the only monu­ment of the plastic art of Greece in prehistorictimes. The walls of Tiryns, of polygonal masonry,appear to be of equal antiquity, and are ascribed tothe Cyclopes. [Mvcknak.] These bear a strongresemblance to the Tyrrheno-Pelasgic remains inItaly, specimens of which are given in DempstersEtruria JiegalU, v. g. the walls of Cosa, Segnia(Scyni) and Faesulae (Fiesole). And a smallamount of evidence is thereby afforded in favour ofNiebuhr's theory of an original Pelasgic populationexisting in the peninsulas of Greece and Italy, butthis is much diminished by the fact, that similarremains are found in parts of Asia Minor where notraces exist of any Pelasgic traditions. And we areobliged therefore to fall back upon the view 6rstadopted by A. W. Schlegel, that the peninsulas ofGreece and Italy were successively peopled bybranches of one original nation, dwelling once upona time in the central part of Western Asia, andspeaking one language, out of which, by successivemodifications, sprang the different Greek and Italiandialects. 2. The authorities on the Pelasgians in Italy areNiebuhr (//. R. vol. i. p. 25, Tr.); Muller, Etriuker(quoted above); Lanzi, Saggio di Lingua Etrtuica,O'c, Flor. 1824; Lepsius, uber die Tyrrhen, Pe-lasgtr in Etrurien, Leipz. 1842; Steub, titer die ool