OCR Output 138 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. thereby, that although you have a numerousarmy, with horses, and weapons, and abovethese, a God merciful to you, and ready toassist you; you do, however, desire them notto compel you to fight against them, nor totake from them what they have; which willindeed be our gain, but what they will haveno reason to wish we should take to ourselves.And if they hearken to you, it will be properfor you to keep peace with them; but if theytrust on their own strength, as superior toyours, and will not do you justice, lead yourarmy against them; making use of God asyour supreme commander, but ordaining as alieutenant under him one that is of the great­est courage among you. For these differentcommanders, besides their being an obstacleto actions that are to be done on the sudden,are a disadvantage to those that make use ofthem. Lead an army, pure, and of chosenmen, composed of all such as have extraor­dinary strength of body, and hardiness ofsoul; but send away the timorous part, lestthey flee in the time of action, and so affordan advantage to your enemies. Do you alsogive leave to those that have lately built themhouses, and have not yet lived in them a year'stime, and to those that have planted themvineyards, and have not been yet partakersof their fruits, to continue in their own coun­try; as well as to those also who have be­trothed or lately married wives; lest theyhave such an affection for these things, thatthey be too sparing of their lives, and by re­serving themselves for these enjoyments, theybecome voluntary cowards.* When you have pitched your camp takecare that you do nothing that is cruel; andwhen you are engaged in a siege, and wanttimber for making warlike engines, do notrender the land naked by cutting down treesthat bear fruit; but spare them, as consider- ing that they were made for the benefit ofmen, and that if they could speak, they wouldhave a just plea against you; because, thoughthey are not occasions of the war, they areunjustly treated, and suffer in it; and would,if they were able, remove themselves intoanother land. When you have beaten yourenemies in battle, slay those that have foughtagainst you, but preserve the others alive,that they may pay you tribute; excepting thenation of the Canaanites, for as to that peopleyou must entirely destroy them. Take care, especially in your battles, thatno woman use the habit of a man, nor manthe garment of a woman, f This was the form of political governmentwhich was left us by Moses. Moreover hehadJ already delivered laws in writing, in thefortieth year after they came out of Egypt,concerning which we will discourse in ano­ther book. But now on the following days,(for he called them to assemble continually;)he delivered blessings to them, and cursesupon those that should not live according tothe laws, but should transgress the duties thatwere determined for them to observe. Afterthis, he read to them a poetic song, whichwas composed in hexameter verse, and leftit to them in the holy book; it contained aprediction of what was to come to pass after­ward; agreeably whereto all things have hap­pened all along, and do still happen to us;and wherein he has not at all deviated fromthe truth. Accordingly he delivered thesebooks to the|| priests, with the ark; intowhich he also put the Ten Commandments,written in two tables. He also delivered tothem the tabernacle; and exhorted the peo­ple, that when they had conquered the land,and were settled in it, they should not forgetthe injuries of the Amalekites;§ but make waragainst them, and inflict punishment upon * Deut. xx. 7. i Deut. xxii. 5. Deut. xxii. 5. The woman shall not wear that whichpertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a wo­man's garment. This prohibitory law seems directedagainst an idolatrous usage, which appears to be as ancientas Moses, and which later writers inform us was to befound among several nations in after times; and that tooattended with the most abominable practices. From Plu­tarch (De Isid. et Osir. tom. ii. p. 368. edit. Xylandr.) welearn that thp Egyptians called the moon the mother ofthe world, and assigned to her a nature both male and ft - male; and Boyse (Pantheon, p. 72.) says of Diana, Luna,or the moon, that the Egyptians worshipped this deityboth as male and female, the men sacrificing to it as Luna,the women as Lunus, and each sex on these occasionsassuming the dress of the other. Parkhurst's Heb. Lex.p. 107. B. J These laws seem to be those previously recited inthis chapter. I I What laws were now delivered to the priests, see thenote on HI. 1. / « § Deut. xxv. 1"