OCR Output A. D. 19.] 119 OF TACITUS. and Agrippina, were of a ponderous size; while thosefor Piso and the rest were of inferior value. Piquedat the distinction, Piso exclaimed," This feast is made" for the son of a Roman prince, not of a Parthian" king." In the instant he threw the present made tohimself, with peevish contempt, on the ground, de­claiming with bitterness against the growth of luxury.Germanicus heard his rude invective, but still re­mained master of himself. LVIII. About this time arrived ambassadors fromArtabanus, king of the Parthians, with instructionsto mention, in terms of respect, the ancient alliancebetween Rome and Parthia, and the desire of the mo­narch to renew their former friendship. As an ear.nest of respect for Germanicus, Artabanus was willingto advance to an interview as far as the Euphrates ;but he made it a condition, that Vonones should beremoved from Syria, where his residence in theneighbourhood of Parthia, gave him an opportunityto carry on secret negotiations with the nobles of therealm, and in time to stir up a revolt. Germanicusanswered with condescension, yet with dignity. Ofthe alliance between Rome and Parthia he spokewith due regard, and the royal visit he considered asan honour to himself. Vonones was removed toPornpeiopolis, on the coast of Cilicia, not so much tocomply with the demands of the Parthian king, as tocurb the insolence of Piso, then linked in ties offriendship with the exiled prince, who had contrived,by marks of respect and magnificent presents, to pur­chase the favour of Plancina. LIX. In the consulship of Marcus Silanus and Lu­cius Norbanus, Germanicus made a progress intoEgypt, to view the monuments of antiquity, so muchcelebrated in that country. For this journey thegood of the province was his pretext. In fact, byopening the public granaries, he reduced the price ofcorn; and by pursuing popular measures, he gainedthe good-will of the inhabitants. He appeared inpublic without a guard; his feet uncovered, after theGreek fashion; and the rest of his apparel was alsoGreek. In these particulars he took for his model