OCR Output 256 [book VII ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. belied his master; but said to him, that as hehad before granted all his estate to Ziba,because he did not come along with him; sohe now promised to forgive him, and orderedthat the one half of his estate should be re­stored to him. Whereupon Mephiboshethsaid, "Nay, let Ziba take all; it suffices methat thou hast recovered thy kingdom."* But David desired Barzillai, the Gileadite,that great and good man, and one that hadmade a plentiful provision for him at Maha-naim, and had conducted him as far as Jor­dan, to accompany him to Jerusalem; for hepromised that he would treat him in his oldage with all manner of respect, and wouldtake care of and provide for him. But Bar­zillai was so desirous to live at home, that heintreated him to excuse him from attendanceon him; and said, "that his age was too greatto enjoy the pleasures of a court, since he wasfourscore years old, and was making provi­sion for his death and burial. So he desiredhim to gratify him with this request, and dis­miss him, for that he had no relish of hismeat or his drink, by reason of his age: andthat his ears were too much shut up to hearthe melody of musical instruments, such as allthose that live with kings delight in." Whenhe intreated for this so earnestly, the kingsaid, "I dismiss thee, but thou shalt grant methy son Chimham; and upon him will I be­stow' all sorts of good things." So Barzillaileft his son with him, and worshipped theking, and wished him a prosperous conclusionof all his affairs according to his own mind,and then returned home. But David cameto Gilgal; having about him half the people, of Israel, and the whole tribe of Judah. Now the principal men of the country cameto Gilgal to David, with a great multitude,and complained of the tribe of Judah; thatthey had come to him in a private manner;whereas they ought all conjointly, and with one and the same intention to have givenhim the meeting. But the rulers of the tribeof Judah desired them not, to be displeased,if they had been prevented by them:—"For,"said they, "we are David's kinsmen; and onthat account, we the rather took care of him,and loved him, and so came first to him; yethave we not by our early coming, receivedany gifts from him; which might give you, whocame last, any uneasiness." When the rulersof the tribe of Judah had said this, the rulersof the other tribes were not satisfied, but saidfarther, "O brethren! we cannot but wonderat you, when you call the king your kinsmanalone; whereas he that hath received fromGod the power over all of us in common,ought to be esteemed a kinsman to us all;for which reason the whole people haveelevent parts in him, and you but one part.We also are elder than you.J Wherefore youhave not done justly in coming to the king inthis private and concealed manner." While the rulers were thus disputing, acertain wicked man, named Sheba, the son ofBichri, of the tribe of Benjamin, stood in themidst of the multitude, and cried aloud, "Wehave no part in David, nor inheritance in theson of Jesse." And when he had used thesewords, he blew a trumpet, and declared waragainst the king. And they all left David,except the tribe of Judah,|| who staid withhim, and settled him in his royal palace atJerusalem. But as for his concubines, withwhom his son Absalom had accompanied, heremoved them to another house, and orderedthose that had the care of them to make aplentiful provision for them; but he came notnear them any more. He also appointedAmasa for the captain of his forces, and gavehim the same high office which Joab beforehad; and he commanded him to gather to­gether, out of the tribe of Judah, as great anarmy as he could, and to come to him within as he did before; but only forgives him, if he had beenat all guilty. Nor is this odd way of mourning that Me­phibosheth made use of here, and 2 Sam. six. 24. whollyfree from suspicion and hypocrisy. If Ziba neglected orrefused to bring Mephibosheth an ass of his own, onwhich he might ride to David, it is hard to suppose thatso great a man as he was should not be able to procuresome other beast for the same purpose. * 2 Sam. xix. 30. t I clearly prefer Josephus's reading here, when itsupposes eleven tribes, including Benjamin, to be on one side: and the tribe of Judah alone on the other: sinceBenjamin in general had been still fonder of the house ofSaul, and less firm to David hitherto than any of therest; and so cannot be supposed to be joined with Judahat this time to make it double, especially when the fol­lowing rebellion was headed by a Benjamite. See 2 Sam.xx. 2—4. J Reubel, Simeon, and Levi, were elder than JudahGen. xxix. 32—35. || 2 Sam. xx. 2.