OCR Output 50 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. administration and jurisdiction of their own.* Some yearslater not only were the old confederacies again allowedto have a shadowy existence, but the oppressive restrictionon the alienation of landed property was removed.Destruction The communities of Thebes, Chalcis, and Corinth ex-of Connth. perienced a treatment more severe. There is no ground forcensure in the fact, that the two former were disarmed andconverted by the demolition of their walls into open villages;but the wholly uncalled-for destruction of the flourishing * The question whether Greece did or did not become a Roman province in146. 608, virtually runs into a dispute about words. It is certain that the Greekcommunities throughout remained " free" (C. I. Gr. 1543, 15; Caesar, B. C.iii. 4 ; Appian, Mithr. 58: Zonar. ix. 31). But it is no less certain that Greecewas then " taken possession of' by the Romans (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21: 1 Maccab.viii. 9, 10); that thenceforth each community paid a tixed tribute to them (Pau-san. vii. 16, 6, comp. Cic. Be Prov. Cons. 3, 5), the little island of Gyarus, forinstance, paying 150 drachma annually (Strabo, x. 485) ; that the''rods andaxes" of the Roman governor thenceforth ruled in Greece (Polyb. xxxviii. 1 c,comp. Cic. Verr. I. I. 21, 55), and that he thenceforth exercised the superin足tendence over the constitutions of the cities (C. /. Gr. 1543), as well as incertain cases the criminal jurisdiction (C. T. Gr. 1543; Plut. Cim. 2), just asthe senate had hitherto done; and that, lastly, the Macedonian provincialera was also in use in Greece. Between these facts there is no inconsistency,or at any rate none further than is involved in the position of the free citiesgenerally, which are spoken of sometimes as if excluded from the province(e.g. Sueton. Cirs.i 25; Colum. xi. 3, 26), sometimes as assigned to it (e.g.Joseph. Ant. Jud. xiv. 4, 4). The Roman domanial possessions in Greecewere, no doubt, restricted to the territory of Corinth and possibly some por足tions of Kuboea (C. I. Gr. 5879), and there were no subjects in the strict sensethere at all; yet if we look to the relations practically subsisting between theGreek communities and the Macedonian governor, Greece may be reckoned asincluded in the province of Macedonia in the same manner as Massilia in theprovince of Xarbo or Dyrrachium in that of Macedon. We find even cases that89. go much further: Cisalpine Gaul consisted after 665 of mere burgess or Latincommunities and was yet made a province by Sulla, and in the time of Caesar wemeet with regions which consisted exclusively of burgess-communities and yetby no means ceased to be provinces. In these cases the fundamental idea ofthe Roman provincia comes out very clearly; it was primarily nothing buta " command," and all the administrative and judicial functions of the com足mandant were originally collateral duties and corollaries of his military position.On the other hand, if we look to the formal sovereignty of the free communi足ties, it must be granted that the position of Greece was not altered in point of140. constitutional law by the events of 608. It was a difference de facto ratherthan de jure, when instead of the Achaean league the individual communities ofAchaia now appeared by the side of Rome as tributary protected states, andwhen, after the erection of Macedonia as a distinct Roman province, the latterrelieved the authorities of the capital of the superintendence over the Greekciient-states. Greece therefore may or may not be regarded as a part of the"command" of Macedonia, according as the practical or the formal point ofview preponderates; but the former is justly reckoned as the more important.