OCR Output THRACIA. TURACIA. 1179 0 protect it, as be supposes, from the severity(ibe climate; by which also he accounts for theuluvalion, in some parts of the country, of theribemm trtmettrr sod bimrjtrr, no called becauseiime varieties were reaped in the third and secondvc'.h nspectively after tiiej were sown. Corn wasjoined from Thrace, and especially from the Cher-woj to Athens (Theoph. de Plantu, viii. 4; Lys.• DwfiL p. 902), and to Rome (Plin.L c). Milletrai cultivated in some parts of Thrace; for Xeno-ino (Anab. vii. 5. § 12) states that on the march to•liinfiiessua, Seathes and his allies traversed theomtry of the " millet-eating Thracians " (cf. Strab.n p. 315.) The less important vegetable produc-•c< of Thrace may be briefly mentioned: a speciest eater-chestnut (tribubU) grew in the Strymon,at leaves of which were used by the people whosal oa its banks to fatten their horses, while 1 iu outs they made a very sweet kind of bread.Pirn. in. 58, xzii. 12.) Roses (Rota cetUifolia)t*w wild on the i'angaens, and were successfullyraplanted by the natives (Id. xxi. 10). Theamntaios, in general, abounded in wild-thyme and>;roai nf mint (Id. xix. 55). A sort of morel or•oirw (Hon) waa found in Thrace (Id. xix. 12;uhen. ii. p. 62), and a styptic plant (itchaemon),'tjch was said to stop bleeding from even di-slsj blood-vessels. (Theoph. de Plant. IX. IS; Plin.XV. 45.) Several varieties of ivy grew in thewstry, and wen sacred to Dionysus. (Theoph. deW iiL 16; Plin. xvL 62.) Herodotus (iv. 74)*«* that the Scythians had hemp both wild andilMxted; and as he proceeds to say that the Thra-«as inade clothing of it, we may fairly infer that pre* in Thrace also. "The Athenians importedail limber chiefly from the country about theirymos, for the Thracian hills abounded in oak andr-trsae.* (Niebuhr, Led. Ane. Hut. i. p. 292, if. tram.). M. Viquesnel states that the Strandj a-eye is covered with forests of oak (p. 314), andaS in some parts of the district of Ruudope tobacco a*> cultivated (p. 320). Anwi^ the animals of Thrace, white horses areT—tadly mentioned. The famous steeds of Rhesusb* "whiter than snow." (Horn. 1L x. 437; Eu-; fiaes. 304.) When Xerxes reached the hanks ofw Strymon in his onward march, the magi sacri-"I "hite horses (Herod, vii. 113), which were■t'uWy Thracian, for the same reason, whateverat waa, that the human victims spoken of in theit eliapter were the children of natives. Xeno-wr, Ntatea that, during a banquet given by Scuthes,rhraeian entered, leading a white horse, which hef^nted to his prince, with an encomium on itsetaeaa (.InnA. vii. 3. § 26). Virgil speaks of Tbra- ■ bora with white spots (A en. v. 565, ix. 49).>r>es were no donbt plentiful in Thrace: HomerI xiv. 227) calls the Thracians IxwowiiAoi; andvalry always formed a large part of their armies.>as Tboeydides (ii. 98) estimates the number ofnemen in the army with which Sitalcea invadedseedonia at about 50,000. One of the twelveMrs of Hercules was to bring to Mycenae themc* mares of Diomedes, king of the Uistones inir»*-e. who fed them with human flesh. (Or. Met. ■ 194.) Herodotus (vii. 126) states that lionsre fomnd throughout the country bounded on the. by the Achelous and on the K. by the Nestus;tr.rntent which is repeated by Aristotle (//. A. vi.. viii. 28); so that the part of Thrace between ■ Strymou and the Nestus must have been in­ fested, at least in early times, by those formidableanimals. Herodotus says that they attacked thebaggage-camels of Xerxes during the march of hisarmy from Acanthus to Therme (vii. 125). Cattle,both great and small, were abundant, and seem tohave constituted the chief wealth of a people who,like most barbarians, considered agriculture a baseoccupation. (Herud. v. 6.) The fertile valleys werewell adapted for oxen, and the thyme-covered hillsfor sheep; and it is clear, from several passages inXenophon, that even the wildest Thracian tribeswere rich in this kind of wealth. ( A nab. vii. 3. § 48,7. § 53.) Aristotle informs us that the Thracianshad a peculiar method of fattening swine (//. A.viii. 6). He attributes the sinailni'.ss of their assesto the coldness of the climate (/6. 28). Cranes areoften mentioned as belonging to Thrace. (Virg.Georg. i. 120; Ov. A. A. iii. 182; Juv. xiii. 167.)Aristotle says that an aquatic bird of the pelicankind (»i*«cu-ii) migrates from the Strymon tothe Istcr (//. A. viii. 11); and that the people insome marshy districts of Thrace were assisted incatching water-fowl by hawks; which do not seemto have been trained for the purpose, but, thoughwild, to have been induced by a share of the game,to second the proceedings of their human associates(lb. ix. 36). Eels were caught at certain seasons inthe Strymon (lb. viii. 2, ad fin.). The tunny fisherywas a source of great wealth to Byzantium. (Strab.vii. p, 320.) The principal mineral productions of Thrace weregold and silver, most of which came from the moun­tainous district between the Strymon and the Nestus.There, at the southern extremity of the Pangaeus,was situated Crenides, founded by the Thasians,and afterwards called Philippi, in a hill near which,named the hill of Dionysus (Appian, B. C. iv.106), were the most productive gold mines ofThrace, to get possession of which was Philip's prin­cipal object in annexing the district in question tohis dominions. He is said to have derived from themines an annual income of 1000 talents. (Diod.xvi 8 ; cf. Strab. vii. p. 323.) * Strabo (xiv. p.680) says that the wealth of Cadmus came from themines of the Pangaeus; and Pliny refers to the sametradition when he states (vii. 57) that according tosome authorities, the Pangaeus was the place whereCadmus first discovered gold-mines, and the art nfmelting their produce (conflaturti). Herodotus (vii.112) mentions silver, as well as gold, mines in thePangaeus, which in his time were in the possession ofthe native tribes called Pieres, Olomanti, and Satrae.He states also (vi. 46) that the Thasians had goldmines at Scapte Hyle, near Abdera, from which theyderived an (annual) revenue of about 80 talents; andthat a part of the revenues of Peisistratus came fromthe Strymon, by which the minea on its banks areprobably meant (i. 64). (See also, ix. 75; Eurip.Hhe*. 921; Strabo (or rather his epitomiser), vii, p.331.) According to Pliny (xxxiii. 21) gold waafound in the sands of the Hebrus ; and this is con­firmed by Paul Lucas (/. c), and by Viquesnel, whostates (p. 204) that in rainy years the affluents ofthat river arc frequented by gold-finders, who washthe sands which contain gold in grains (estpaillettes).Thucrdides was interested in g»ld mines and worksnear Ainphipolis, as he himself informs us (iv. 105).Of the other minerals of Thrace we may mention the * On these mines, see Niebuhr, Led. Ethnog.and Gtog. i. pp. 285, 295, Eng. trans.