OCR Output VOLCI. 1321 VOLSCI. VOLCI (OMutoi, Ptol.: J?<*. Volciens: Km near Pmle delta Badia), a city of Ktruria, situated in theplain 011 the right bank of the rivor Armina (Fiora),about 8 miles Iroin its mouth. Very little mention isfound of it in history. The name of the city inknown from Ptolemy as well as from Pliny, who(numerates, among the municipal towns of Ktruria,the " Volcentini cognomine Etrusci," an appellationevidently used to distinguish them from the people ofVulcentum in Lucauia. (I'mi. iii. 5. >. 8; Ptol. iii.1. § 49.) The name is quoted also by Stephanusof Byzantium, who writes it 'OAkiov, from Polybius.(Steph. B. I. v.) But the only indication that theyhad once been a powerful people, and their city aplace of importance, is found in the Fasti Capitolini,which record a triumph in the year b.c. 280 over theVolsiniensea and Vulcientes (/"aft Capit. ad ann.473). This was one of the last struggles ol theEtruscans for independence, and it was doubtless inconvenience of the spirit shown on this occasion bythe Volcientes that the Romans shortly afterwards(in R. c 273) established a colony at Cosa, in theirterritory. (Veil. Pat. i. 14; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8.) It isexpressly stated on this occasion by Pliny, that Cosawas a dependency of Volci (Cosa Vulcienlium), astatement which has been ignored by those modernwriters who hare represented Cosa as an independentand important Etruscan city. But while this isvery doubtful in the case of Cosa, the evidence,though scanty, is conclusive that Volci was such;and there is even reason to suppose, from a monu­ment discovered at Cerctlri, that it was at one timereckoned one of the twelvechief cities of the EtruscanLeague. (Ann. d. /rut Arc!,. 1842, pp. 37—40.) But notwithstanding these obscure hints ot itsgreatness, the name of Volci was almost forgotten,and its site unknown, or at least regarded as uncer­tain, when the first discovery of its necropolis in1828 led to subsequent researches on the spot,which have brought to light a number of paintedrases greatly exceeding that which has been dis­covered on any other Etruscan site. The unprece­dented number, beauty, and variety of these works ofart have given a celebrity in modern times to theDaine of Volci which is probably as much in excessof its real importance in ancient times as in the■ v.. r. parallel case of Pompeii. It is impossibleIn?re to enter into any detailed account of the resultuf these excavations. It is calculated that above6000 tombs in all have been opened, and the contentshare been of the most varied kind, belonging todifferent periods and ages, and varying from thecoarsest and rudest pottery to the finest paintedrases. The same tombs hare also yielded verynumerous objects and works of art in bronze, aswell as delicate works in gold and jewellery; andafter making every allowance for the circumstancethat the cemetery at Volci appears to have enjoyedthe rare advantage of remaining undisturbed throughages, it affords incontestable proof that it must havebelonged to a wealthy and populous city. Thenecropolis and its contents are fully described by Mr.Dennis (Etruria, vol. i. pp. 397—427). The re-of the excavations, in regard to the painteddiscovered, are given by Gerhard in his Rap.i Van VvUxnti, published in the AmmtlidrW Institute for 1831. It is remarkable that onlyone of the thousands of tombs opened was adornedwith paintings similar to those found at Tarquinii,and, in this instance, they are obviously of late date.The site of the city itself has been carefully ex­ plored since these discoveries have attracted so muchinterest to the spot. It stood on the right bank ofthe river Armina, just below the point where thatstream is spanned liy a noble bridge, now called thePontt delta Badia, undoubtedly a work of Komantimes, though the foundations may be Etruscan.The few remaining relics of antiquity still visible onthe site of the city, which occupied a plateau ofabout 2 miles in circumference, are also of Romandate, and mostly belong to a late periid. Inscrip­tions also have been discovered, which prove it tohare continued to exist under the Roman Empire;and the series of coins found there shows that it wasstill in existence, at least as late as the fourthcentury of the Christian era. In the middle ages itseems to have totally disappeared, though the plainin which it Htocd continued to be known as the /'iondi Voci, whence Holsteniug correctly inferred thatthis must have been the site of Volci. (Holsten.iVof. ad Cluver. p. 40.) The necropolis was, forthe most part, on the other side of the river; and itis hero that the excavations have been carried onmost diligently. The site of Volci (which is nowwholly uninhabited) is about 8 miles from Montallo,a small town at the mouth of the Fiora, wherethat river was crossed by the Via Aurelia. (Den­nis, tft) [E. H. B.] Vul.CIANI, a people in Hispania Tarraconensis.(Liv. xxi. 19.) [T. H. D.] VOLENOS, a fort in Rhaetia, in the territory ofTridcntum, which was destroyed by the Franks(Paul. Diac. lAmgob. iii. 31), and is generally iden­tified with the modem village of Volano on theAdige, south of Culiano [I.. S.] VOI.IBA (OodAiSa, Ptol. ii. 3. § 30), a town ofthe Dumnonii in Britannia Romans, near the W.extremitr of the island. Most prohablv Fabimtith.(Camden, p. 16.) [T. H. D.] VOLOBRIGA (OiloAcsJoryu, Ptol. ii. 6. § 41), atown in Gallaocia in Hispania Tarraconensis belong­ing to the Nemetatae. [T. H. I).] VOLOGATIS, in Gallia Narbonen.is. is placedby the Jerusalem Itin. after Lucus (/.tic), on theroad to Vapincum ( Cap) past Mons Saleucux. Thedistance from Lucus is ix.; and D'Anrille supposesthat Vologatis may be a place named Lecke*, butthe distance ix. is too much. Others fix the placeat Zfeatiriere,- and others propose Lethet or Bean-numt. All this is uncertain. [G. L.] VOLOGE'SIA (OioKytala, Ptol. r. 20. § 6), acity built by and named after Vologeses, one of theArsacidan kings of Parthia, in the immediate neigh­bourhood of Seleuceia upon the Tigris. It is calledby Pliny, Vologesocerta (vL 26. s. 30), the latter por­tion of the name implying the " city of." The ex­tensive ruins, still existing, on both sides of theTigris, are probably those of the two gieat cities ofSeleuceia and Vologcsia. [V.] VOLSAS (OiioAffai miKwot, Ptol. ii. 3. § 1), abay on the W. coast of Britain, prohablv LocA Brey.(Horsley, p. 378.) £t. II. R] VOLSCI (i )u'<jAo-sioi, Strab.;Oi)oAoSo-*<m, Di.nys.),an ancient peoplo of Central Italy, who bear a pro­minent part in early Rinnan history. Their territorywas comprised within the limits of I.atiutn as thatname was employed at a late period, and under theKoman Empire ; but there is no doubt that theVolscians were originally a distinct people from theLatins, with whom, indeed, they were almost alwayson terms of hostility. On the other hand they ap-I pear as constantly in alliance with the Aequi; and