OCR Output 102 THE ANNALS [A. U. C.769. probably retaining still the spirit of his ancestors, un­broken by distress. From this time Tiberius neverrelented. While the house of Hortensius sunk intodistress and poverty, he looked on with unconcern,and saw that illustrious family moulder into ruin. XXXIX. In the courso of this year, the daringgenius of a single slave well nigh involved the em­pire in a civil war. The name of this man wasClemens, formerly retained in the service of Posthu-mus Agrippa. He was no sooner apprised of thedeath of Augustus, than he conceived tho bold designof passing over to the isle of Planasia, with intent,by force or stratagem, to carry off Agrippa, and con­vey him to the German army. This enterprise, con­ceived by a slave, was no indication of a grovellingmind._ He embarked on board a trading vessel, deep­ly laden, and after a tedious passage arrived too late:Agrippa was previously murdered. The man wasnow resolved to act a nobler part. Taking with himthe ashes of the prince^ he sailed to Cosa, a promon­tory of Etruria, and there remained concealed in thesequestered parts of the country, till his hair andbeard were grown into length. He was of his mas­ter's age, and in form and stature not unlike him. Hebegan by his friends and agents to circulate a whis­per that Agrippa was still living. The story, as isusual in the beginning of plots, was helped about byclandestine arts. By degrees the tools of this boldadventurer grew more hardy; the weak and ignorantbelieved every thing; and the bold and turbulent,who wish for nothing so much as convulsions in thestate, received the news with joy and exultation.While the report was gaining ground, the author ofit withdrew with caution from the public eye. Truth,he was aware, is always brought to light by time andreflection; while the lie of the day lives by bustle,noise, and precipitation. The impostor was thereforeresolved to keep the minds of men in a constant fer­ment: he visited the municipal towns, but always inthe dusk of the evening; he went to one place, heflew to another, continually in motion, never longany where; but, as soon as he made his impression,