OCR Output 258 LIVY. his eyes: he then saw behind him a serpent of immensesize, moving along and felling all the bushes and treesin its way; and after it followed a dark cloud, withloud thundering in the air. On which, asking whatwas the nature of this great commotion, or what itportended, he was told that it meant the devastation ofItaly: he was then ordered to proceed in his course,and not to inquire farther, but let the decrees of thedestinies remain in obscurity. 23. Overjoyed at this vision, he led his forces inthree divisions over the lberus, having sent forwardemissaries to conciliate by presents the friendship ofthe Gauls, through whose country the army was topass, and to explore the passes of the Alps. Thenumber of forces which he brought across the lberuswas ninety thousand foot, and twelve thousand horse.He then reduced the Ilergetans, the Bargusians, theAusetanians, and the province of Lacetania, which layat the foot of the Pyrenean mountains. The govern­ment of all this tract he gave to Hanno, with inten­tion to retain the command of the narrow passes whichlead from Spain into Gaul; and, to enable him tosecure the possession of it, assigned him a body offorces, consisting of ten thousand foot and one thou­sand horse. When the army began to pass the defilesof the Pyrenees, and a rumor spread with greatercertainty among the barbarians that the war was in­tended against the Romans, three thousand of the Car-petan foot left him, and marched away, actuated, asclearly appeared, not so much by dread of the enemy,as of the great length of the march, and the insu­perable difficulty of crossing the Alps. Hannibal,considering that to recall or detain them by forcemight be attended with dangerous consequences, andwishing to avoid every thing that might irritate theferocious tempers of the rest, sent home above tenthousand men, in whom he had discovered an equalaversion from the service, pretending that he had inlike manner dismissed the Carpetans. 24. Then, lest delay and idleness should inspire