OCR Output ait. 71.] 493 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. that had been slain already, they would takewhat had been done patiently, on account oftheir natural love to their governors: but ifthey must expect the same for the future also,they implored of her a dismission from herservice. For they could not bear to think ofattempting any method for their deliverancewithout her: but would rather die wiHingly,before the palace gate, in case she would notforgive them. And that it was a great shame,both for themselves, and for the queen, thatwhen they were neglected by her, they shouldcome under the lash of her husband's ene­mies. For that Aretas, the Arabian king,and the *monarchs, would give any rewardif they could get such men as foreign aux­iliaries; to whom their very names mightperhaps be terrible. But if they could notobtain this their second request, and if shehad determined to prefer the Pharisees be­fore them, they still insisted that she wouldplace them, every one in her fortresses. Forthat if some fatal demon had a constant spiteagainst Alexander's house, they would bewilling to bear their part, and to live in aprivate station there. As these men spake thus, and called uponAlexander's ghost for commiseration of thosealready slain, and those in danger of death;all the bystanders burst into tears. But Aris-tobulus chiefly manifested what were his sen­timents; and used many reproachful expres­sions to his mother, saying, "Nay indeed thecase is this; that they have been themselvesthe authors of their own calamities, who havepermitted a woman, who against reason wasmad with ambition, to reign over them, whenthere were sons in the flower of their age fit­ter for it." So Alexandra, not knowing whatto do with any decency, committed the for­tresses to them, all but Hyrcania, Alexan-drium, and Macherus, where her principaltreasures were. After a little while also, sheBent Aristobulus with an army to Damascus,against Ptolemy, who was called Menneus.But he did nothing considerable there, andso returned home. About this time news was brought" that Ti-granes, king of Armenia, had made an irrup­tion into Syria with "[five hundred thousandsoldiers; and was coming against Judea.This intelligence, as may well be supposed,terrified the queen and the nation. Accord­ingly they sent ambassadors to him withmany valuable presents; as he was besiegingPtolemais. For Selene, who was also calledCleopatra, ruled then over Syria; having per­suaded the inhabitants to exclude Tigranes.So the Jewish ambassadors interceded withhim, and intreated him that he would deter­mine nothing that was severe about theirqueen or nation. He commended them forthe respects they paid him at so great a dis­tance: and gave them good hopes of his fa­vour.:}: But as soon as Ptolemais was taken,news came to Tigranes, that Lucullus in hispursuit of Mithridates, could not overtakehim: for he had fled into Iberia; and waslaying fwaste Armenia, and besieging itscities. Now when Tigranes knew this, hereturned home. After this, when the queen was fallen intoa dangerous distemper, Aristobulus resolvedto attempt seizing upon the government.Accordingly he stole away secretly by night,with only one of his servants, and went to thefortresses, wherein his friends, that were suchfrom the days of his father, were settled. Foras he had been a great while displeased at hismother's conduct, so he was now much moreafraid, lest, upon her death, their whole familyshould be under the power of the PhariseesiFor he saw the inability of his brother, whowas to succeed her in the government. Norwas any one conscious of what he was doing,but only his wife, whom he left at Jerusalem,with their children. He first of all came to||Agaba, where was Galestes, one of the po­tent men beforementioned; and was receivedby him. When it was day Alexandra per­ceived that Aristobulus was fled: and forsome time she supposed that his departurewas not in order to make any innovation.But when messengers came one after another, * See Of the War, Book I. chap. 20. t The number of 600,000, or even 300,000, as oneGreek copy, with the Latin copies, have it, for Tigranes'sarmy, that came out of Armenia into Syria and Judea;seems much too large. We have had already severalsuch extravagant numbers in Josephus's present copies, which are not to be ascribed to him. Accordingly I in­cline to Dr. Hudson's emendation here, which suppose!them but 40,000. I An. 71. II Or, Argob. . ... - 4 I 2