OCR Output LIVY. night, or at all events at the dawn of day, to attack theenemy's camp.' The Roman troops, though not lesseager for action, were restrained by the commands ofthe general. About the tenth hour the consul orderedhis men a repast, and gave directions that they shouldbe ready in arms at whatever time of the day or nighthe should give the signal. He then addressed a fewwords to them ; spoke in high terms of the wars of theSamnites, and contemptuously of the Etrurians, who' were not,' he said, ' to be compared with other na­tions, either in respect of abilities as soldiers or inpoint of numbers. Besides, he had an engine at work,as they should find in due time : at present it was ofimportance to keep it secret.' This he intimated inorder to raise the courage of his men, damped by thesuperiority of the enemy's force ; and, from their nothaving fortified the post where they lay, the insinua­tion of a stratagem formed against them seemed themore credible. After refreshing themselves they wentto rest; and being roused without noise, about thefourth watch, took arms. The servants following thearmy had axes put into their ha'nds, to tear down therampart and fill up the trench. The line was formed,within the works, and some chosen cohorts posted closeto the gates. Then, a little before day, which in sum­mer nights is the time of the profoundest sleep, thesignal being given, the rampart was levelled, and thetroops rushing forth, fell on the enemy, who wereevery where stretched at their length. Some were putto death before they could stir; others, half asleep intheir beds; the greatest part, while they ran in confu­sion to arms; few, in short, had time to defend them­selves ; and those who followed no particular leader,nor orders, were quickly routed and pursued by theRoman horse. They fled different ways; to the campand to the woods. The latter afforded the safer re­fuge ; for the former, being situated in a plain, wastaken the same day. The gold and silver was orderedto be brought to the consul; the rest of the spoil wasgiven to the soldiers. On that day sixty thousand of