OCR Output 462 ROMAN EMPIRK. announces the speedy and inevitable ruin of the episcopaland Spain,or(^er- The Christians of Africa and Spain hadA-D.ii49,l(n)g since submitted to the practice of circum­cision and the legal abstinence from wine andpork; and the name of Mazarabes0 (adoptive Arabs)was applied to their civil or religious conformity.11About the middle of the twelfth century, the worship ofChrist and the succession of pastors were abolishedalong the coast of Barbary, and in the kingdoms of Cor­dova and Seville, of Valentia and Grenada." The throneof the Almohades, or Unitarians, was founded on theblindest fanaticism, and their extraordinary rigour mightbe provoked or justified by the recent victories and in­tolerant zeal of the princes of Sicily and Castile, of Ar-ragon and Portugal. The faith of the Moz- arabes was occasionally revived by the papal missionaries; and, on the landing of Charles V. somefamilies of Latin Christians were encouraged to rear theirheads at Tunis and Algiers. But the seed of the gospelwas quickly eradicated, and the long province from Tri­poli to the Atlantic has lost all memory of the languageand religion of Rome/ 0 Mozarabes, or Mostarabes, udscititii, as it is interpreted in Latin. (Pocock,Specimen Hist. Araburn. p. 39, 40. Hibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 18.)The Mozarabic liturgy, the ancient ritual of the church of Toledo, has been at­tacked by the popes, and exposed to the doubtful trials of the sword and of Ere.(Marian. Hist. Hispan. torn. 1. lib. 9. c. 18. p. 378.) It was, or rather it is, in theLatin tongue: yet in the eleventh century it was found necessary (A.. T. C. 1687,A. I'. 1059.) to transcribe an Arabic version of the canons of the councils of Spain,(Bibliot , Arab. Hist , torn. 1. p. 547.) for the use of the bishops and clergy in theMoorish kingdoms. cl About the middle of the tenth century, the clergy of Cordova was reproachedwith this criminal compliance, by the intrepid envoy of the emperor Otho I. (ViUJohan. Gorz, in Secul. Benedict. V. no. 115. apud Henry; Hist. En-lea, torn. It.p. 91.) '• Pagi, Critica, torn. 4. A. D. 1149. no. 8, 9. He justly observes, that whenSeville, &ic. were retaken by Ferdinand of Castile, no Christians, except captives,were found in the place; and that the Mozarabic churches of Africa and Spain,'described by James a Vitriaco, A. D. 1518, (Hist. Hierosol. c. 80. p. 1095. inGest , Dei per Francos) are copied from some older book. I shall add, that thedate of the Hegira, 677, (A. D. 1278.) must apply to the copy, not the composition,of a treatise of jurisprudence, which states the civil rights of the Christians ofCordova; (Bibliot. Arab. Hist , torn. 1. p. 471.) and that the Jews were the onlydissenters whom Abul Waled, king of Grenada, (A.D. 1313.) could either dis­countenance or tolerate, (torn. 2. p. 288.) 'Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 288. Leo Africanus would have flatteredbis Roman masters, could he have discovered any latent relics of the Christianttrof Africa.