OCR Output 224 DECLINE AND FALL [cHAP. XLIIi by a thousand ears, the secret or public agents of thethrone; and the provinces, from the Indian to the Ara­bian confines, were enlightened by the frequent visits ofa sovereign, who affected to emulate his celestial brotherin his rapid and salutary career. Education and agri­culture he viewed as the two objects most deserving ofhis care. In every city of Persia, orphans and the chil­dren of the poor were maintained and instructed at thepublic expense; the daughters were given in marriage tothe richest citizens of their own rank ; and the sons, ac­cording to their different talents, were employed in me­chanic trades, or promoted to more honourable service.The deserted villages were relieved by his bounty; to thepeasants and farmers, who were found incapable of culti­vating their lands, he distributed cattle, seed, and the in­struments of husbandry; and the rare and inestimabletreasure of fresh water was parsimoniously managed andskilfully dispersed over the arid territory of Persia.* Theprosperity of that kingdom was the effect and the evi­dence of his virtues: his vices are those of oriental des­potism ( but in the long competition between Chosroesand Justinian, the advantage both of merit and fortune isalmost always on the side of the barbarian/ . ': His love of To the praise of justice, Nushirvan united the reputa-lenrnmg. ^ knowledge; and the seven Greek philosophers,who visited this court, were invited and deceived by thestrange assurance, that a disciple of Plato was seated onthe Persian throne. Did they expect that a prince,strenuously exercised in the toils of war and government,should agitate, with dexterity like their own, the ab- * In Persia, the prince of the waters is an officer of state. The number of wellsand subterraneous channels is much diminished, and with it the fertility of the soil;four hundred wells have been recently lost near Tauris, and fortyrtwo thousand wereonce reckoned in the province of Kborasan. (Chardin. tom. 3. p. 99,100. Tavernier,tom. 1. p. 466.) J The character and goverument of Nushirvan is represented sometimes in thewords of d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient. p. 680, &e. from Khondemir) Eutychius(Annal, tom. 2. p, 179, 180—very rich), Abulpharagins (Dynast. 7. p. 94, 95,^-very poor), Tarikh Schikard, (p. 144—150.) Texeira, (in Stevens, lib. 1, c. 35.) As*seman, (Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 404—410.) and the abbe Fourmont, (Hist. del'Acad. des Inscriptions, tom. 7. p. 325—334.) who has translated a spurious or ge?nuiue testament of Nushirvan.