OCR Output SARMATIA. SARMATIA. 919 a net aide, ind the Quadi, Stc, of the RegnumVumimum, on too other. In the general I'annonianat Dalmatian outbreak of a. IX 6, the Sarmatiansi line parti took a share (Veil. Pat it 110), as they,I'gkWsJt, did in the immediately previous war ofhe MarnRnssni, under Maioboduus; the Marco-aum, Quadi, Jazyges, and western Daci, andartnatae being generally united, and, to all uppear-»w, tbe ■wmbers of a definite confederacy. Tkt RrgDun Vannianum gives us the continuation['it* history of these populations (a. d. 19—50).i » broken op; Tannins (? the linn) himself dis-Irsi, sod Vangioand Sido, strongly in the interestr Km*, made kings of the parts between the Marushi Casus (Aforoeaa) instead. To the Kannian■a&dmry (a Aaa-at) the Sarmatae and Jazygesnatr the cavalry, the occupants of the Banatrt the infantry (Tac. AtmaL xii. 89). Far a, n. Si, we find an interesting notice in■ntcn, which gives definitude to the Sarmatiawtica it Ptolemy. It is to the effect that, in av with Parthia, Pbarasmanes entered into anlaort with the Albanians of the coast of theu|**a aad the Sarmatae Sccptuchi (? BacriAeioi).tat Am. vi 33.) jl n. 69. Two pregnant sentences tell us the« of the Sarmatian frontier at the accession ofSVs: * Ooortae in nos Sarmaturnm ac Saevorum•in: nobilitatus cladibu? mutuis Dacus" (Hut. i. > The Satevi (who here mean the Quadi andnwmanni) and Sarmatae (foot and horse) areasi Dacta is paving the way to its final subjec-l The Jaiygea seem to fall off from tbe•ate: inasmuch as tbey offer their services toas. which are refuted. Tbe colleague of Sido is'lulicas, equally faithful to Home. (Hut Hi. Id the following year it is Sarmatae and DaciJ art together, threatening the fortresses of MoesiaI'amaau, (iv. 54). la itrvasion of Moesia by the Roxolani took» a. D. 69. This is a detail in the history ofEastern branch. ft» conquest of Dacia now draws near. Whenj>* taken place, the character of the Sarmatian. Womes peculiar. It consists of an independent > of land between the Koinan Province and! -Marcomannic kingdom (Banat); its political:vo* sactiuting. When Tacitus wrote the G'er-«, the Gothini paid tribute to both the Quadilarmatae; a fact which gives us a political dif-Ke between tbe two, and also a line of separa- Tbe teat of Tacitus is ambiguous: "Partemrttraia, Sarmatae. partem Quadi, nt aiienigenisramt * (Cera*. 43). Were tbe Sarmatae andsi. or the Quadi alone, of a different family from aflat Gofhini? This is doubtful. The difler- ■tseif. however, is important.''< were SannAt mtw amongst the subjects asat the allien of Decebalus; their shore in theu War (a. d. lOt!) being details of that event.'•ere left, however, in possession of a large« of their country, i. e the parte between thean Buuauiuin ana the frontier of the Suevi,u. or occupants of Kegnum Vannianum; thekaa of this to tbe Roman and non-Roman areas > :»>rbboiirriood being analogous to that of tbeonaiss Agri, between llie Rhine and UpperOr. i the MarconaMinic Wsr (under M. Antoninus)~^natse are as prominent as any members of<-«>deracv: indeed it is probable that some of the Marcomanni may have been Sarmatae, underanother name. This is not only compatible withthe undoubtedly German origin of the name Marco­manni (Marchmen), but is a probable interpretationof it Gorman as was the term, it might be, and verylikely was, applied to a non-German population.There were two Marches: one held by Germans forRome and against the Sarmatians, the other heldby the Sarmatians for themselves. The formerwould be a March, the other an Ukraine. In theeyes of the Germans, however, the men of the latterwould just as much be Marchmen as themselves.What the Germans in the Roman service called aneighbouring population the Romans would call italso. We shall soon hear of certain Borderers,Marchmen, or men of the Ukraine, under the nameof Limigantes (a semi-barbarous form from Zimes);but they will not be, on the strength of their Latinnames, Latins. The Solitudines Sarmatarum of theRoman maps was more or less of a SarmatianMarch. The Jazyges and Quadi are (as usual)important members of the confederacy. A. D. 270. Aurelian resigns the province ofDacia to the Barbarians; a fact which withdrawsthe scene of many a Sarmatian inroad from thefield of observations,— the attacks of the Barbariansupon each other being unrecorded. Both beforeand after this event, however, Sarmatian inroadsalong the whole line of the Danube, were frequent,Sarmatians, too, as well as Daci (Getac) were com­prehended under the general name of Goth in thereigns of Decius, Claudius, &c Add to this thatthe name of Vandal is now becoming conspicuous,and that under the name of Vandal history wehare a great deal that is Sarmatian. The most important effect of the cession of Daciawas to do away with the great block of Roman,Romanising, or Romanised territory which lay be­tween the Sarmatians of Pannonia and the Sarma­tians of Scythia. It brought the latter within therange of the former, both being, then, tbe frontagersof Moesia. Add to this the tact of a great changein the nomenclature being effected. The Germanportion of the Marcomanni (Thervings and Gru-tungs) has occupied parts of Dacia. The membersof this section of the German name would only knowtbe Sarmatae as Vandals. Again, the Hun poweris developing itself; so thst great material, as wellas nonunal, changes are in the process of develop­ment Finally, when the point from which the Sar­matae come to be viewed has become Greek andConstantinopolitan, rather than Latin and Roman,the names Sluveni and Servi will take prominence.However, there is a great slaughter of the Sar­matians by Cams, on his wsy eastwards. Thenthere is the war, under Cons tan tine, of tbe Sarmataeof tbe Border,—the Sarmatae Limigantes, — a Ser­vile War. [See Limigantes ] The authors whotell us of this are the writers of the Hutoria Au-gueia and Ammianus; after whose time the nameis either rarely mentioned, or, if mentioned, men­tioned on the authority of older writers. Tbehistory is specific to certain divisions of the Sar­matian population. This was, in its several divi­sions, hostile to Rome, snd independent; still, therewere Sarmatian conquests, and colonies effected bythe transplantation of Sarmatae. One lay so fareast as Gaul. "Arvaque Sauromalum nuper metata coloni" (Auson. Mosella) 3 s 4