OCR Output B. I. 17 VNTRODUCTIBN. delightful to the ears. But it will afford sufficient scope tothose who love a sincere account of past transactions, of suchas in the ordinary vicissitude of human affairs may fully oc­cur, at least be resembled again. I give it to the public asan Everlasting Possession, and not as a contentious in­strument of temporary applause. Of former transactions, the greatest was that against theMedes, which however, by two engagements at sea and asmany at land, was brought to a speedy conclusion. But thecontinuance of this war ran out into a much greater length ;and Greece in the course of it was plunged into such cala­mities as were never known before in an equal space. Neverhad so many cities been made desolate by victories, some byBarbarians and some by the violence of intestine feuds ; tosay nothing of those where captivity made room for newpossessors: Never so many instances of banishment; neverso many scenes of slaughter either in battles or seditions.Such calamities farther, as were known only by report, buthad rarely been felt in fact, now gained credit from experi­ence : Earthquakes, for instance, which affected the largestpart of the habitable globe, and shook it with the utmost vio­lence-: Eclipses of the sun, which happened more frequentlythan former times had remembered ; Great droughts in someplaces, the consequence of which was famine: And, whatmade not the least ravage, but did its share of destruction,the noisome pestilence. For all these things ensued inthe sequel of this war, which was carried on between theAthenians and Peloponnesians, after breaking the thirtyyears truce concluded between them upon the reduction ofEuboea. The reasons for which this truce was broke, and theircourse of Variance, I have in the first place thought properto write, that none may be at a loss about the origin of somomentous a war among the Grecians. The growth of theAthenian power I conceive to have been the truest occasionof it, though never openly avowed: The jealousy struck by