OCR Output TYKUS. 1219 TTHUS. m* (Plant. True. 2, 6, 58; Virg. Georg. ii. 506;lav. x. 38; Gel I. xiv. 6, Stc.) The former of these■irjiologies is the preferable one. (Shaw, Travels,u p. 31.) The question of the origin of Tyre tinsx*n already discussed, its coninierce, manufacture!)ul colonies described, and the principal events oft* history narrated at some length [Phoenicia,k 606, •*<]•], and this article will therefore be more-uiicularly devoted to the topography, and to whatiiar be called the material history, of the city. Strabo (xvj. pw 756) places Tyre at a distance ofstadia from Sidon, which pretty nearly agreestith tie distance of 24 miles assigned by the J tin.*uL (p. 149) and the Tab. Pcuting. It was builtwily on an island and partly on the mainland.Ircording to Pliny (v. 19. s. 17) the island was\'i fttadia, or 2j miles, in circumference, and wasnginally separated from the continent by a deepliannel ^ths of a mile in breadth. In his time,"After, as well as long previously (cf. Strab. /. c),t was connected with the mainland by an isthmusirrucd by the mole or causeway constructed bythunder when he was besieging Tyre, and byuiisttjuent accumulations of sand. Some authoritiestale the channel to have been only 3 stadia (Scylux,>. 42) or 4 stadia broad (Diodor. Sic. xvii. 60;'tut. iv. 2); and Arrian (Anab. ii. 18) describes iti ihallow near the continent and only 6 fathomsit depth at its deepest part near the island. Thevreuuu of the isthmus must have been consider-•\t in the course of ages. William of Tyro dc- nU* il in the time of the Crusades as a bow-shot'M*a (xiit. 4); the I'ere Hoger makes it only 50nces (Terre Sainte, p. 41); but at pre.-.ent it istat | of a mite broad at its narrowest part, neartie island. Ihit j<art of the city which lay on the mainland s talli-il Palae-Tyrus, or Old Tyre; an spallation^rn which we necessarily infer that it existed pre-tuualy to the city on the island; and this inferencei continued by Ezeku-1's prophetical description of ■•siege of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar, king uf Ba-the particulars of which are not suitable< on island city. Palae-Tyrus extended along the!wre from the river Leontes on the N., to the foun-un of ItaS'tl'Ain on the S., a sjaict" of 7 miles; ..<li( however, must have included the suburbs.Hit-ti Strabo says (xvi. p. 758) tliat Palae-Tyrus■» 30 stadia, or 3$ miles, distant from Tyre*, lie [Tuiiably considering the southern extremity of>*■ fonner. Pliny c.) assigns a circumference: 19 miles to the two cities. The plain in whichalae-Tyrus was situated was one of the broadestnd most fertile in Phoenicia. The fountain alwveiftiti >ned afforded a constant supply of pure spring.iter, which was received into an octagon reservoir,u f»-et In diameter and 18 feet deep. Into this re-rn-ir the water gushes to within 3 feet of the top.M.umdrell, Jcvmry, p. 67.) Hence it waa distri-uLrrl through the town by means of an aqueduct,<! trace of which has now disappeared (liobinson,taIaLm. p. 684.) The unusual contrast betweentie bustle uf a great seaport and the more tranquiljTatiuns of rural life in the fertile fields whichiT^unded the town, presented a striking scenehica is described with much felicity in the Diony-taen of Nonnoa (40, 327, sqq ). The island on which the new city was built is theinreat rock of a belt that runs along this partIthe coast. We have no means of determining the■'.in of the inland city; but it must of course liave \ou a. arisen in the period between Nebuchadnezzar andAlexander the Great. The alterations which thecoast has undergone at this part render it difficultto determine the original size nf the island. Maun-drell (p. 66) estimated it at only 40 acres; but hewas guided solely by his eye. The city was sur­rounded with a wall, the height of which, where itfaced the mainland, was 150 feet. (Arrian, Amth.ii. 18.) The foundations of this wall, which musthave marked the limits of the island as well as ofthe city, may still l>e di.-cenied, but have not Wenaccurately traced. The measurement of Pliny beforecited must doubtless include the subsequent accre­tions, both natural and artificial. The binallness ofthe area was. however, comjwnsated by the greatheight of the houses of Tyre, which were not builtafter the eastern fashion, but story upon story,like those of Aradus, another Phoenician island city(Mela, ii. 7), or like the insulae of Home. (Strub.I. c.) Thus a much larger population might be ac­commodated than the area teems to promise. Bcr-tou, calculating from the latter alone, estimates theinhabitants of insular Tvre ut between 22,000 and23,000. (Topogi: de 7'yr, p. 17.) But the ac­counts of the capture of Tyre by Alexander, as willappear in the sequel, show a population of at leastdouble that number; and it should be recollectedthat, from the maritime pursuits of the Tyrians, alarge portion of them must have been constantlyat sea. Moreover, part of the western side ofthe island is now submerged, to the extent of morethan a mile; and that this was once occupied bythe city is shown by the bases of columns whichmay still be discerned. These remains were muchmore considerable in the time of Benjamin of Tn-dela, in the latter part of the 12th century, whomentions that towers, markets, streets, and hallsmight be observed at the bottom of the sea (p. Cii,ed. Asher). Insular Tyre was much improved by king Hiram,who in this respect was the Augustus of the city.He added to it one of the inlands lying to the N., byBiting up tho intervening space. This island, theoutline of which can no longer be traced, previouslycontained a temple of Baal, or, according to the Greekway of speaking, of the Olympian Jupiter. (Joseph.c. Aj/um, i. 17.) It was by the space thus gained,us well as by substructions on the eastern side ofthe island, that Hiram was enabled to enlarge andbeautify Tyre, and to form an extensive public place,which the Greeks called Eurychorus. The artificialground which Hiram formed fur this purpose maystill be traced by the loose rubbish of which it con­sists. The frequent earthquakes with which Tyrelias been visited (Sen. Q. Ar. ii. 26) have renderedit difficult to trace its ancient configuration; andalterations have been observed even since the recentone of 1837 (Kenrick, Phoenicia, p. 353, &c). The jtowerful navies of Tyre were received andsheltered in two roadsteads and two harbours, oneon the N., the other on the S. side of the island.The northern, or Sidonian roadstead, so called be­cause it looked towards Sidon (Arrian, ii. 20), wasprotected by the chain of small islands already men­tioned. The harbour which adjoined it was formedby a natural inlet on the NE. tide of the island. Onthe N., from which quarter alone it was exposed t«the wind, it waa rendered secure by two sea-wallsrunning parallel to each other, at a distance of 100feet apart, as shown in the annexed plan. Portionsof these walls mav still be traced. The eastern aide 1 L