OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL formidable tumult which lasted three days; they besieged the palace, forced thegates, recalled their mothers, Zoe from her prison, Theodora from her monastery,and condemned the son of Calaphates to the loss of his eyes or of his rife. Forthe first time, the Greeks beheld with surprise the two royal sisters seated on thesame throne, presiding in the senate, and giving audience to the ambassadors ofthe nations. But this singular union subsisted no more than two months: the twosovereigns, their tempers, interests, and adherents, were secretly hostile to eachother; and as Theodora was still averse to marriage, the indefatigable Zoe, atthe age of sixty, consented, for the public good, to sustain the embraces of a thirdhusband, and the censures of the Greek church. His name and number wereConstantine X., and the epithet of Monomachus, the single combatant, must havebeen expressive of his valour and victory in some public or private quarrel. Buthis health was broken by the tortures of the gout, and his dissolute reign was spentin the alternative of sickness and pleasure. A fair and noble widow had accom­panied Constantine in his exile to.the isle of Lesbos, and Sclerena gloried in theappellation of his mistress. After his marriage and elevation, she was investedwith the title and pomp of Augusta, and occupied a contiguous apartment in thepalace. . The lawful consort (such was the delicacy or corruption of Zoe) consent­ed to this strange and scandalous partition; and the emperor appeared in public be­tween his wife and his concubine. He survived them both; but the last measuresof Constantine to change the order of succession were prevented by the more vi­gilant friends of Theodora; and after his decease, she resumed, with the generalconsent, the possession of her inheritance. In her name, and by the influence offour eunuchs, the eastern world was peaceably governed about nineteen months;and as they wished to prolong their dominion, they persuaded tTle aged princess tonominate for her successor Michael VI. The surname of Stratioticus declareshis military profession; but the crazy and decrepit veteran could only see with theeyes, and execute with the hands of his ministers. Whilst he ascended the throne,Theodora sunk into the grave; the last of the Macedonian or Basilian dynasty. Ihave hastily reviewed, and gladly dismiss, this shameful and destructive period oftwenty-eight years, in which the Greeks, degraded below the common level ofservitude, were transferred like a herd of cattle by the choice or caprice of'twoimpotent females. From this night of slavery, a ray of freedom, or at least of spirit, begins toemerge: the Greeks either preserved or revived the use of surnames, which per­petuate the fame of hereditary virtue; and we now discern the rise, succession,and alliance, of the last dynasties of Constantinople and Trebizond. The Com-Tteni, who upheld for awhile the fate of the sinking empire, assumed the honourof a Roman origin: but the family had been long since transported from Italy toAsia. Their patrimonial estate was situate in the district of Castamona, in theneighbourhood of the Euxine; and one of their chiefs, who had already enteredthe paths of ambition, revisited with affection, perhaps with regret, the mo­dest though honourable dwelling of his fathers. The first of their line was theillustrious Manuel, who, in the reign of the second Basil, contributed by war andtreaty, to appease the troubles of the east: he left, in a tender age, twosons, Isaacand John, whom, with the consciousness of desert, he bequeathed to the gratitudeand favour of his sovereign. The noble youths were carefully trained in the learn­ing of the monastery, the arts of the palace, and the exercises of the camp; andfrom the domestic service of the .guards, they were rapidly promoted to the com­mand of provinces and armies. Their fraternal union doubled the force and re­putation of Comneni, and their ancient nobility was illustrated by the marriage ofthe two brothers with a captive princess of Bulgaria, and the daughter of a patri­cian, who had obtained the name of Charon, from the number of enemies whomhe had sent to the infernal shades. The soldiers had served with reluctant loyal­ty a series of effeminate masters; the elevation of Michael VI. was a personal in­sult to the more deserving generals; and their discontent was inflamed by the par­simony of the emperor and the insolence of the eunuchs. They secretly assem­bled in the sanctuary of St. Sophia, and the votes of the military synod would havebeen unanimous in favour of the old and valiant Catacalon, if the patriotism ormodesty of the veteran had not suggested the importance of birth as well as me­rit in the choice of a sovereign. Isaac Comnenusnvas approved by general con­sent, and the associates separated without delay to meet in the plains of Phrygiaat the head of their respective squadrons and detachments. The cause of "Mi­chael was defended in a sipgle battle by the mercenaries of the imperial guard,who were aliens to the public interest, and animated only by a principle of honour