OCR Output 96 ITALICA. ITALIA. undent authors bearing upon his subject, bat hehad himself travel ltd orer a great part of Italy,noting the distances and observing the remains ofancient towns. It is to be regretted that he has notleft us more detailed accounts of these remains ofantiquity, which have in many cases since disap­peared, or have not been visited by any more recenttraveller. Lucas Holstenius, the contemporary andfriend of Claver, who had also visited in personnany of the more unfrequented districts of Italy,has left us, in his notes on Cluverius (Adnotationesad Cluverii Italian Antiquum, 8vo. Bomae, 1666),a valuable supplement to the larger work, as well asmany important corrections on particular points. It is singular how little we owe to the researchesof modern travellers in Italy. Not a single book oftravels has ever appeared on that country whichcan be compared with those of Leake or Dodwell inGreece. Swinburne's Travel* in the Tiro Sicilies isone of the best, and greatly superior to the morerecent works of Keppel Craven on the same part ofItaly C Tow through the Southern Province! of theKingdom of Saplci, 4to. Lond. 1821; Excursionsin the A bruzzi and Northern Province! of Naplc!,2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1838). Eustace's well-knownbook (Classical Tour through Italy in 1802) isalmost wholly worthless in an antiquarian point ofview. Sir U. Uoarc's Clanical Tour, intended as asort of supplement to the preceding, contains somevaluable notes from personal observation. Dennis'srecent work on Etruria (Cities and Cemeteries ofthe Etruscans, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1848) contains afar more complete account of the antiquities andtopography of that interesting district than we pos­sess concerning any other part of Italy. Sir W.Gell's Topograph* of Rome and it! Vicinity (2 vols.8vo. Lond. 1834; 2nd edit 1 vol. 1846*), takenin conjunction with the more elaborate work ofNihby on the same district (Anuliti delta Carta deiIHnlorni di Roma, 3 vols. 8vo. Rune, 1849), sup­plies much valuable information, especially what isderived from the personal researches of the author,but i* far from fulfilling all that we require. Thework of Weatphal on the same subject (Die RomischeKumpagne, 4to. Berlin, 1829) is still more imper­fect, though valuable for the care which the authorbestowed on tracing out the direction and remains ofthe ancient roads throughout the district in ques­tion. Abcken's Mittel Italien (8vo. Stuttgart,1843) contains a good sketch of the physical geo­graphy of Central Italy, and much information con­cerning the antiquities of the different nations thatiuhabited it; but enters very little into the topo­graphy of the regions he describes. The publi­cations of the In«tituto Archcolngico at Rome (firstcommenced in 1829, and continued down to thepresent time), though directed more to archaeo­logical than to|x>graohical researches, still containmany valuable memoirs in illustration of the topo­graphy of certain districts, as well as the still ex­isting remains in ancient localities. The local works and histories of particular dis­tricts and cities in Italy are innumerable. lintvery few of them will he found to be of any realservice to the student of ancient geography. Theearlier works of this description are with few ex­ceptions characterised by very imperfect scholarship,an almost total want of criticism, and a blind cro- • It is this edition which is always referred to inthe present nork. dulity, or still blinder partiality to the native cityof each particular author. Even on those points i nwhich their testimony would appear most likely tobe valuable,—such as notices of ruins, inscription.*,and other remains of antiquity,—it must too oftwibe received with caution, if not with sn>pirion. Astriking exception tothis general remark will be foundin the treatise of Galileo, De Situ lapygiae (Svo.Basel, 1551; republished by Graevius in the Tk*~saurus Antiquitatum Italiae. vol. ix. part v.);those of Barrio on Calabria (the modern province ofthe name) and Antonini on Lucania (Barrius, oSeAntiquitate et Situ Calabriae, fol. Bomae, 17.17;Antonini, La Lucania, 4to. Naples, 1741), thoughnot without their merit, are of far inferior ralne.The results of these local researches, and the con­clusions of their authors, will be for the most partfound, in a condensed form, in the work of theAbate Romanelli (Antica Topografia Istorica delRegno di Kapoli, 3 vols. 4to. Naples, 1815), which,notwithstanding the defects of imperfect scholarshipand great want of critical sagacity, will still lifound of the greatest service to the student for theport of Italy to which it relates. Cromer, in biawell-known work, has almost implicitly followedRomanelli, as far as the latter extendi; as for therest of Italy he has done little more than abri.l^othe work of Cluverius, with the corrections of hi*commentator Holstenius. Mannert, .on the con­trary, appears to have composed his Geographievon Italien without consulting any of the loralwriters at all, and consequently without that de­tailed acquaintance with the actual geography ofthe country which is the indispensable foundation ifall inquiries into its ancient topography. Keichard'awork, which appears to enjoy some reputationin Germany, is liable in a still greater degree te>tho same charge:* while that of Korbiger is avaluable index of references both to ancient andmodern writers, but aspires to little more. Kra­mer's monography of the Ijike Kuiinus (Der Fu-ciner See, 4to. Berlin, 1839) may be mentioned asa perfect model of its kind, and stands unrivalledas a contribution to the geography of Italy. Nie-buhr's Lectures on the Geography of Italy (in hie1'orfrdoe iber Alt* tender u. Volkcr-hml', pp.318—576) contain many valuable and Importantviews, especially of the physical geography in haconnection with the history of the inhabitants. aj«lshould be read by every student of antiquity.tb"u;hby no means free from errors of detail. [E. H. B.JITA'LICA eiTiiAHca, Strab. iiL p. Ml; PtoL ii.4. § 13; 'lTaAurft, Appian, Hisp. 38: Steph. R.!. e.), a Roman city, in the country of the Tur-detani, in Uispania Baetica, on the right bank ofthe Baetis, opposite Hist'ALlR (Serille\ from whichit was distant only 6 M. P. to the NW. (/(•'». Ant.p. 413, comp. p. 432.) It was founded by ScipinAfricanus, on the site of the old Iberian town ofSancios, in the Second Punic War (n. c. 207), amipeopled with bis disabled veterans; whence it* name,"the Italian city." It had the rank of a muni-cipium: it is mentioned more than once in the his­tory of the Civil Wars: and it was the native piece)of the emperors Trajan, Hadrian, and Tbeodoiusthe Great, and, as some sty, of the poet SilicaItallcus. (See Did. of Greek and Rom. Iliog. a. s\) * Some esvere, but well merited, strictures enthis work ore contained in Niebuhr* lectures onRoman History (vol UL p. xdv. 3d edit.).