OCR Output CHAP. LI. 455 of their eastern progenitors. The victorious thoughmotley bands of Tarik and Musa asserted, by the nameof Spaniards, their original claim of conquest; yet theyallowed their brethren of Egypt to share their esta­blishments of Murcia and Lisbon. The royal legion ofDamascus was planted at Cordova; that of Emesa atSeville; that of Kinnisrin or Chalcis atJaen; that ofPalestine at Algezire and Medina Sidonia. The nativesof Yemen and Persia were scattered around Toledo andthe inland country; and the fertile seats of Grenadawere bestowed on ten thousand horsemen of Syria andIrak, the children of the purest and most noble of theArabian tribes/ A spirit of emulation, sometimes bene­ficial, more frequently dangerous, was nourished bythese hereditary factions. Ten years after the conquest,a map of the province was presented to the caliph: theseas, the rivers, and the harbours, the inhabitants andcities, the climate, the soil, and the mineral productionsof the earth." In the space of two centuries, the gifts ofnature were improved by the agriculture,'1 the manufac­tures, and the commerce of an industrious people; andthe effects of their diligence have been magnified by theidleness of their fancy. The first of the Ommiades whoreigned in Spain solicited the support of the Christians;and, in his edict of peace and protection, he contentshimself with a modest imposition of ten thousand ouncesof gold, ten thouand pounds of silver, ten thousand horses,as many mules, one thousand cuirasses, with an equal 'Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. 2. p. 32. 352. The farmer of these quotations istaken from a Biographia Hufanica, by an Arabian of Valentia: (see the copious ex­tracts of Casiri, torn. t. p. 30—H1.) and the latter from a general chronology ofthe Caliphs, and of the African and Spanish Dynasties, with a particular Historyof the Kingdom of Grenada, of which Casiri has given almost an entire version.(Bibliot. Arabico-HUpana, torn. 2. p. 177—319.) The authorEbn Khateb, a na­tive of Grenada, and a contemporary of Nnvairi and Abulfeda, (born A. D. 1313,died A.D. 1374.) was an historian, geographer, physician, poet, Sec. (torn. 2. p.71, 72.) * Cardonne, Hist . de I'Afrique et de 1'Espagne, torn. 4. p. 116,117. * A copious treatise of Hushandry, by an Arabian of Seville, in the twelfth cen­tury, is in the Escurial library, and Casiri had some thoughts of translating it. Hegives a list of the authors quoted, Arabs, as well as Greeks, Latins, &c.; but it ifmuch if the Andalusian saw these strangers through the medium of his countrymanColumella. (Casiri, Bibliot . Arabico-Hiepana, torn. 1. p. 323—356.)