OCR Output CHAP. LII. 483 arms, are inferior to our own." If you follow my advice(replied the prudent mayor of the palace), you will notinterrupt, their march, nor precipitate your attack. Theyare like a torrent, which it is dangerous to stem in itscareer. The thirst of riches, and the consciousness ofsuccess, redouble their valour, and valour is of more availthan arms or numbers. Be patient till they have loadedthemselves with the incumbrance of wealth. This pos足session of wealth will divide their counsels, and assureyour victory." This subtle policy is perhaps a refine足ment of the Arabian writers; and the situation ofCharles will suggest a more narrow and selfish motive ofprocrastination; the secret desire of humbling the pride,and wasting the provinces, of the rebel duke of Aquitain.It is yet more probable, that the delays of Charles wereinevitable and reluctant. A standing army was unknownunder the first and second race: more than half thekingdom was now in the hands of the Saracens: accord足ing to their respective situation, the Franks of Neustriaand Austrasia were too conscious or too careless of theimpending danger; and the voluntary aids of the Ge-pidae and Germans were separated by a long intervalfrom the standard of the Christian general. No soonerhad he collected his forces, than he sought and foundthe enemy in the centre of France, between Tours andPoitiers. His well-conducted march was covered by arange of hills, and Abderame appears to have been sur足prised by his unexpected presence. The nations of Asia,Africa, and Europe, advanced with equal ardour, to anencounter which would change the history of the world.In the six first days of desultory combat, the horsemenand archers of the east maintained their advantage: butin the closer onset of the seventh day, the orientals wereoppressed by the strength and stature of the Germans,who, with stout hearts and iron hands'1, asserted the civil h Gens Austris membrorum pre-eminentii valida, el gens Germanacorde etcor-ppre praestantissima, quasi in ictfl oculi manfl ferreaet pectore arduo Arabes cx-tinxerunt. (Roderic. T'oletan. c. 14.) 2 i 2