OCR Output O F R O M E. 259 content to fubmit to the penalty, if they fliould failBin proof. And as he did not dare to ftand the trial, ^all thefe circumftances concurring together, made Y.R. 195.people entertain no more doubt of the condemnation B.c'«7.of VoHcius, than they had of Caefo's, after Volfciushad given his teftimony. The bufinefs, however,was put a ftop to by the tribunes, who declared, thatthey would not fuffcr the quaeftors to hold an afiem-bly on the bufinefs of the profecution, until one wasfirft held on that of the law; and thus both affairswere deferred to the arrival of the confuls. Whenthefe entered the city in triumph, with their victo­rious army, filence being obferved with refpect tothe law, people from thence imagined that the tri­bunes were ttruck with fear; but they, dire&ingtheir views to the tribunefhip, for the fourth time,it being now the latter end of the year, had changedthe direction of their efforts, from the promoting ofthe law, to canvaffing for the election. And al­though the confuls ftruggled againft the continuingof that office in the fame hands, with no lefs earneft-nefs than if the act had been propofed for the purpofeof lefiening their own dignity, yet the tribunes gotthe better in the conteft. The fame year, on theirpetition, peace was granted to the ^Equans. Thefurvey which had been begun in the former year,was now finifhed, and the luftrum clofed, which was • the tribes, five out of each tribe; and the prxtor, according to theimportance or the difficulty of the caufe in difputc, appointed one ormore of them to try it. This office was, at firft, confined to the fe-nalors; but was, afterward*, transferred to the knights; and was, atdifferent times, held fometimes, by one of thtfe bodies, fometimes bytin: other, and fometimes, in cummon between them both. The ufualmethod of proceeding was this; the plaintiff either named the judge,before whom he rummoned the defendant to appear, which was termed'ferre judicem;' or he left the nomination to the defendant, ' ut ju-• dicemdiceret,'and when they had agreed on the judge, 'quum judicem'conveniflet,' they prefented a joint petition to the prretor, prayingthat he would appoint, ' ut daret," that pcrlbn to try the caufc; and,at the fame uiia, they bound themfelvet to pay a certain fum of mo­ney, the plaintiff, ' ni ita effet,' if he fhouid not eftablilh hit charge jthe defendant, if he fhould not acquit himfelf. s a the