OCR Output 226 THE FAMINE, [B. V, 3. So all hope of escaping was now cut off from the Jews,together with their liberty of going out of the city. Thendid the famine widen its progress, and devoured the peopleby whole houses and families; the upper rooms were full ofwomen and children that were dying by famine, and the lanesof the city were full of the dead bodies of the aged; thechildren also and the young men wandered about the market­places like shadows, all swelled with the famine, and fell downdead, wheresoever their misery seized them. As for buryingthem, those that were sick themselves were not able to do it,and those that were hearty and well were deterred from doingit by the great multitude of those dead bodies, and by theuncertainty there was how soon they should die themselves;for many died as they were burying others, and many wentto their coffins before that fatal hour was come. Nor wasthere any lamentations made under these calamities, nor wereheard any mournful complaints; but the famine confoundedall natural passions; for those that were just going to dielooked upon those that were gone to their rest before themwith dry eyes and open mouths. A deep silence also, and akind of deadly night, had seized upon the city; while yet therobbers were still more terrible than these miseries were them­selves ; for they brake open those houses which were no otherthan graves of dead bodies, and plundered them of what theyhad, and carrying off the coverings of their bodies, went outlaughing, and tried the points of their swords in their deadbodies ; and in order to prove what metal they were made of,they thrust some of those through that still lay alive upon theground ; but for those that entreated them to lend them theirright hand and their sword to dispatch them, they were tooproud to grant their requests, and left them to be consumedby the famine. Now every one of these died with their eyesfixed upon the temple, and left the seditious alive behindthem. Now the seditious at first gave orders that the deadshould be buried out of the public treasury, as not enduringthe stench of their dead bodies. But afterwards, when theycould not do that, they had them cast down from the wallsinto the valleys beneath.