OCR Output 92 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. and to take it up again in each successive year, till theearnestness of the demand and the pressure of publicopinion overbore resistance. Now things were carried witha higher hand. Gracchus seemed to himself to have reachedthe point, when he must either wholly renounce his reformor begin a revolution. He took the latter course, when hecame before the burgesses with the declaration that eitherhe or Octavius must retire from the college, and suggestedto Octavius that a vote of the burgesses should be taken asto which of them they wished to dismiss. Deposition fromoffice was, according to the Roman constitution, a constitu­tional impossiblity; Octavius naturally refused to consentto a proposal insulting to the laws and himself. Then Grac­chus broke off the discussion with his colleague, and turnedto the assembled multitude with the question whether atribune of the people, who acted in opposition to the people,had not forfeited his office; and the assembly, long accus­tomed to agree to all proposals presented to it, and for themost part composed of the agricultural proletariate whichhad flocked in from the country and was personally in­terested in the carrying of the law, gave almost unanimouslyan affirmative answer. Marcus Octavius was at the biddingof Gracchus removed by the lictors from the tribunes'bench; and then, amidst universal rejoicing, the agrarian lawwas carried and the first allotment commissioners werenominated. The votes fell on the author of the law alongwith his brother Gaius, who was only twenty years of age,and his father-in-law Appius Claudius. Such a family-selection augmented the indignation of the aristocracy. Whenthe new magistrates applied as usual to the senate to obtainthe moneys for their equipment and for their daily allow­ance, the former was refused, and a daily allowance wasassigned to them of 24 asses (1 shilling). The feud spreaddaily more and more, and became more envenomed andmore personal. The difficult and intricate task of defining,confiscating, and distributing the domains carried strifeinto every burgess-community, and even into the alliedItalian towns.Further The aristocracy made no secret that, while they would plans of acquiesce perhaps in the law because they could not dootherwise, the officious legislator should not escape theirvengeance; and the announcement of Quintus Pompeius,that he would impeach Gracchus on the very day of his Gracchus.