OCR Output AW. 41.] 523 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them: and wrote letters to that purpose. Healso bound fifteen of their adversaries, andwould have put them to death, but that Herodobtained their pardon. Yet did not these men continue quiet,when they were come back, but a thousandof the Jews came to Tyre to meet him there,whither the report was that he would come.But Antony was corrupted by the moneywhich Herod and his brother had given him;and so he gave order to the governor of theplace to punish the Jewish ambassadors, whowere for making innovations: and to settlethe government upon Herod. But Herodwent out hastily to them, and Hyrcanus waswith him; (for they stood upon the shore be­fore the city,) and he charged them to gotheir ways; because great mischief wouldbefall them if they went on with their accu­sation. But as they did not acquiesce, theRomans ran upon them with their daggers,and slew some, and wounded more of them:and the rest fled away, and went home, andlay still in great consternation. And whenthe people made a clamour against Herod,Antony was so provoked at it, that he slewthe prisoners. Now in the *second year, Pacorus, theking of Parthia's son, and Barzapharnes, acommander of the Parthians, possessed them­selves of Syria. Ptolemy, the son of Men-neus, also was now dead: and Lysanias hisson took his government; and made a leagueof friendship with Antigonus, the son of Aris-tobulus; and in order to obtain it made useof that commander, who had great interestin him. Now Antigonus had promised to five the Parthians a thousand talents, andve hundred women: upon condition theywould take the government from Hyrcanus,and bestow it upon him, and withal killHerod. And although he did not give themwhat he had promised, yet did the Parthiansmake an expedition into Judea on that ac­count, and carried Antigonus with them.Pacorus went along the maritime parts; butthe commander, Barzapharnes, through themidland. Now the Tyrians excluded Paco­rus: but the Sidonians, and those of Ptole-mais, received him. However Pacorus senta troop of horsemen into Judea, to take aview of the state of the country, and to assistAntigonus; and he sent the king's butler, ofvoL. i.—NOS. 43 & 44. the same name with himself. So when theJews that dwelt about mount Carmel cameto Antigonus, and were ready to march withhim into Judea, Antigonus hoped to get somepart of the country by their assistance. Theplace is called Dry mi: and when some otherscame and met them, the men privately fellupon Jerusalem. And when some more werecome to them, they got together in greatnumbers, and came against the king's palace,and besieged it. But as Phasaelus's andHerod's party came to the other's assistance,and a battle ensued in the market-place, theyoung men beat their enemies, and pursuedthem into the temple; and sent some armedmen into the adjoining houses to keep themin; who yet being destitute of such as shouldsupport them, were burnt, and the houseswith them, by the people who rose up againstthem. But Herod was revenged on theseseditious adversaries a little afterward, whenhe fought with them, and slew a great num­ber of them. But while there were daily skirmishes, theenemy waited for the coming of the multitudeout of the country to the feast of Pentecost.And when that day was come, many thou­sands of the people were gathered togetherabout the temple; some in armour, and somewithout. Now those that came guarded boththe temple and the city, excepting what be­longed to the palace, which Herod guardedwith a few of his soldiers. And Phasaelushad the charge of the wall: while Herod,with a body of his men, sallied out upon theenemy, who lay in the suburbs, and foughtcourageously, and put many thousands toflight: some fleeing into the city, some intothe temple, and some into the outer fortifica­tions: for some such fortifications there werein that place. Phasaelus came also to hisassistance. Yet was Pacorus, the general ofthe Parthians, at the desire of Antigonus, ad­mitted into the city, with a few of his horse­men: under pretence indeed, as if he wouldappease the sedition; but in reality to assistAntigonus in obtaining the government. Andwhen Phasaelus met him, and received himkindly, Pacorus persuaded him to go himself,as ambassador to Barzapharnes; which wasdone fraudulently. Accordingly Phasaelus * Probably of Antony's coming into Asia. 4N