OCR Output ITALIA. ITALIA. 95 dison. Remarks on Italy). (See this question fullydiscussed and investigated by Znmpt, uber denStand tkr BeciUxrung im AUertkum. 4to. Berlin,1841.) Gallia Cisalpina, including Venctia and the partof LisurU N. of the Apennines, seems to have beenby far the most flourishing and populous part ofItaly under the Roman empire. Its extraordinarynatural resources had been brought into cultivationat a comparatively late period, and were still unex­hausted: nor had it suffered so much from the civilwars which had given a fatal blow to the prosperityof the re.-t of Italy. It would appear also to haveken comparatively free from the system of culti­vation by slave labour which had proved so ruinousto the more southern regions. The younger Pliny,nvlml. mentions that his estate near Comum, and allthose in its neighbourhood, were cultivated wholly byfree labourers, (l'lin. Ep. iii. 19.) In the lattersjes of the Kmpire, also, the establishment of theimperial court at Mediolanum (which continuedfrom the time of Maximum to that of Honorius)must have given a fresh stimulus to the prosperityof this favoured region. But when the Empire wasno longer able to guard the barrier of the Alpsagainst the irruptions of barbarians, it was onKortlieni Italy that the first brunt of their devas­tations naturally fell; and the numerous and npu-leiit cities in the plains of the Padus were plunderedin succession by the Goths, the Huns, and theLoot bards. VII. Authorities.Considering the celebrity of Italy, and the im­portance which it enjoyed, not only under the Ro-mans but during the middle ages, and the facilityof access which has rendered it so favourite a resortof travellers in modern times, it seems strange thatour knowledge of its ancient geography should bestill very imperfect Yet it cannot be denied thatthis is the case. The first disadvantage nnderwhich we labour is, that our ancient authoritiesthemselves are far from being as copious or satis-fa:t/iry as might be expected. The account giveno; Strabo, though marked by much of his usualp»«t sense and judgment, is by no means sufficientlyampie or detailed to meet all oar requirements. Helad aUo comparatively little interest in, and wasprobably himself but imperfectly acquainted with,lit early history of Rome, and therefore did noteaw to notice, or inquire after, places which hadfibred in that history, but were in his time sunkhit" decay or oblivion. Mela dismisses the geo-Crapht of Italy very hastily, as being too well knownto leqaire a detailed description (ii. 4. § 1): whilePiiiiy, on the contrary, apologises for passing butlightly over so important and interesting a subject,itf account of the impossibility of doing it justice(iii. 5. s. 6). His enumeration of the differentPzkiH and the towns they contained is neverthelessof the greatest value, and in all probability basedupon authentic materials. But he almost whollyreelects the physical geography, and enumerates theisland towns of each district in alphabetical order,vi that his mention of them gives us no assistanceia determining their position. Ptolemy's lists oftames are far less authentic and trustworthy thanthaw of Pliny; and the positions which he professesto give are often but little to be depended on. TheItineraries afford valuable assistance, and perhapstbm it op country for which they are more useful and trustworthy guides; but they fail us exactlywhere we are the most in want of assistance,—in themore remote and unfrequented parts of Italv, orthose districts which in the latter ages of the Em­pire had fallen into a state of decay and desolation.One of the most important aids to the determinationof ancient localities is unquestionably the preserva­tion of the ancient names, which have often beentransmitted almost without change to the presentday; and even where the name is now altered, weare often enabled by ecclesiastical records to tracethe ancient appellation down to the middle ages,and prove both the fact and the origin of its altera­tion. In numerous instances (such as Aletium,Sipontum, &c.) an ancient church alone records theexistence and preserves the name of the decayedcity. But two circumstances must guard us againsttoo hasty an inference from the mere evidence ofname: the one, that it not unfrequently happened,during the disturbed periods of the middle ages,that the inhabitants of an ancient town would mi­grate to another site, whether for security or otherreasons, and transfer their old name to their newabode. Instances of this will be found in the casesof Abellinum, Aufidena, &c, and the most re­markable of all in that of Capua. Another sourceof occasional error is that the present appellations oflocalities are sometimes derived from erroneous tra­ditions of the middle ages, or even from the misap­plication of ancient names by local writers on thefirst revival of learning. One of the most important and trustworthy auxi­liaries in the determination of ancient names andlocalities, that of inscriptions, unfortunately requires,in the ca-e of Italy, to be received with much caroand caution. The perverted ingenuity or misguidedpatriotism of many of the earlier Italian antiquariansfrequently led them either to fabricate or interpolatesuch documents, and this with so much skill andshow of learning, that many such fictitious or apo­cryphal inscriptions have found their way into thecollections of Gruter, Muratori, and Orclli, and havebeen cited in succession by numerous modern writers.Mommsen has conferred a great service upon thostudent of Italian antiquities by subjecting allthe recorded inscriptions belonging to the kingdomof Naples to a searching critical inquiry, and dis­carding from his valuable collection {InscriptioneaRegni Neapolitan* Latinae, fol. Lips. 1852) allthose of dubious authenticity. It is much to bedesired that the same task may be undertaken forthose of the rest of Italy. The comparative geography of ancient and mo­dern Italy had more or less engaged the attention ofscholars from the first revival of learning. But of thegeneral works on the subject, those before the time ofCluverius may be regarded more as objects of cu­riosity than as of much real use to the student.Biondo Flavio (Blondus Flavius) is the earliestwriter who has left us a complete and connectedview of Italian topography, in his Italia JUiutrata(first published in 1474, afterwards with his otherworks at Basle, in 1531 and 1559): after himcame Leandro Alberti, whose Detcrizione di tuttaItalia (Venice, 1551) contains some valuable no­tices. But the great work of Cluverius {ItaliaAntigua, 2 vols. fol. Lugd. Bat. 1624) altogethersuperseded those whicb had preceded him, andbecame the foundation of all subsequent inquiries.Cluverius has not only brought together, with thomost praiseworthy diligence, all the passages of