OCR Output 4*. 1532.] 101 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, CHAP. IX. OF THE MANNER OF OFFERING SACRIFICES. 1WILL now make mention of a few of ourlaws, which belong to purifications, andthe like sacred offices, since I am accidentallycome to this matter of sacrifices: these sacri­fices are of two sorts, one being offered forprivate persons, and the other for the peoplein general: and they are done in two differ­ent ways. In one case, what is slain is burnt,as a whole burnt-offering: whence that nameis given to it: but the other is a thank-offer­ing, and as designed for feasting those thatsacrifice. I will speak of the former: Sup­pose a private man offer a burnt-offering, hemust slay either a bull, a lamb, or a kid of thegoats, and the two latter of the first year;though of bulls he is permitted to sacrificethose of a greater age: but all burnt-offer­ings are to be of males. When they are slain,the priests sprinkle the blood* round aboutthe altar: they then cleanse the bodies, di­vide them into parts, salt them, and lay themupon the altar; while the pieces of wood arepiled one upon another, and the fire is burn­ing. They then cleanse the feet of the sacri­fices, and the inwards, in an accurate man­ner: and so they lay them to the rest, to bepurified by the fire, while the priests receivethe hides: this is the way of offering a burnt-offering. Those who offer thank-offerings do indeedsacrifice the same creatures; but such as are unblemished, and above a year old: howeverthey may take either males or females. Theyalso sprinkle the altar with their blood; butthey lay upon the altar the kidneys, the caul,and all the fat, and the lobe of the liver; withthese they bring also the rump of the lamb;they give also the breast and the rightshoulder to the priests; so they feast uponthe remainder of the flesh for two days; andwhat remains they burn. The sacrifices for sins are offered in thesame manner, as is the thank-offering: butthose who are unable to purchase completesacrifices offer two pigeons, or turtle doves;one of which is made a burnt-offering to God,and the other is given as food for the priests.But we shall treat more accurately aboutthe oblation of these creatures, in our dis­course concerning sacrifices; but if a personfall into sin by ignorance, he offers an ewelamb or female kid of the goats of the sameage; and the priest sprinkles the blood at thealtar; not after the former manner, but at thecorners of it. They also bring the kidneys,and the rest of the fat, together with the lobeof the liver, to the altar: while the priestsbear away the hides, and the flesh, and spendit in the holy place,f on the same day; for thelaw does not permit them to leave of it untilthe morning. But if any one sin, and is con­scious of it himself, but hath nobody that canprove it upon him, he offers a ram; the fleshof which the priests eat, as before, in the holyplace, on the same day. And if the rulersoffer sacrifices for their sins, they bring the * It is, says Bp. Patrick, no improbable conjecture ofFortunatus Scacchus, that from hence the heathens learnedtheir Taurobolia, and Criobolia, which in process of timethey disguised with infernal rites and ceremonies. "TheTaurobolium of the ancients was a ceremony in which thehigh-priest of Cybele was consecrated, and might be calleda baptism of blood, which they conceived imparted a spi­ritual new birth to the liberated spirit. In this dreadfuland SfHiguinary ceremony, according to the poet Pruden-tiu.s, cited at length by Banier on the ancient sacrifices, thehigh-priest about to be inaugurated was introduced into adark excavated apartment, adorned with a long silkenrobe, and a crown of gold. Above this apartment was afloor perforated in a thousand places with holes like a=ie ve, through which the blood of a sacred bull, slaughteredfor the purpose, descended in a copious torrent upon theinclosed priest, who received the purifying stream onevery part of his dress, rejoicing to bathe with the bloodyshower his hands, his cheeks, and even to bedew his lipsand his tongue with it: when all the blood had run fromthe throat of the immolated bull, the carcass of the victim was removed, and the priest issued forth from the cavity,a spectacle ghastly and horrible, his head and vestmentsbeing covered with blood, and clotted drops of it adheringto his venerable beard. As soon as the pontifex appearedbefore the assembled multitude, the air was rent with con­gratulatory shouts; so pure and so sanctified however washe now esteemed, that they dared not approach his per­son, but beheld him at a distance with awe and veneration."Maurice's Ind. Ant. voL v. p. 196. B. t What Reland observes here, out of Josephus, as com­pared with the law of Moses, Levit. vii. 15, (that the eat­ing of the sacrifice the same day it was offered, seems tomean only before the morning of the next, although thelatter part, i. e. the night, be in strictness part of the nextday, according to the Jewish reckoning,) is greatly to beobserved upon other occasions also. The Jewish maxim,in such cases, it seems, is this: that the day goes beforethe night, and this appears to me to be the language bothof the Old and New Testament. See alsothe note on IV.4, and Reland's note on IV. 8.