OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL the Seine, was originally confined to the small islandin the midst of the river, from whence the inhabit­ants derived a supply of pure and salubrious water.The river bathed the foot of the walls; and thetown was accessible only by two wooden bridges. Aforest overspread the northern side of the Seine;but on the south, the ground, which now bears thename of the university, was insensibly covered withhouses, and adorned with a palace and amphitheatre,baths, an aqueduct, and a field of Mars for theexercise of the Roman troops. The severity of theclimate was tempered by the neighbourhood of theocean; and with some precautions, which experiencehad taught, the vine and fig-tree were successfullycultivated. But, in remarkable winters, the Seinewas deeply frozen; and the huge pieces of ice thatfloated down the stream might be compared, by anAsiatic, to the blocks of white marble which wereextracted from the quarries of Phrygia. The licen­tiousness and corruption of Antioch recalled to thememory of Julian the severe and simple manners ofhis beloved Lutetia *; where the amusements of thetheatre were unknown or despised. He indignantlycontrasted the effeminate Syrians with the brave andhonest simplicity of the Gauls, and almost forgavethe intemperance, which was the only stain of theCeltic character t. If Julian could now revisit thecapital of France, he might converse with men ofscience and genius, capable of understanding and ofinstructing a disciple of the Greeks; he might ex­cuse the lively and graceful follies of a nation, whosemartial spirit has never been enervated by the in­dulgence of luxury; and he must applaud the per­fection of that inestimable art, which softens and re­fines and embellishes the intercourse of social life. * T)?v piXtv AiuxiTiav. Julian. in Misopogon. p. 340. Leucetia, or Lutetia,,was the ancient name of the city which, according to the fashion of the fourthcentury, assumed the territorial appellation of Parisii. f Julian. in Misopogon. p. 359, 360.