OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. unknown to the Asiatics;(l) they are ignorant of the laws of criticism; and oui*monkish chronicles of the same period may be compared to their most popularworks, which are never verified by the spirit of philosophy and freedom, Theoriental library of a Frenchman(2) would instruct the most learned mufti of theeast; and perhaps the Arabs might not find in a single historian, so clear and com­prehensive a narrative of their own exploits, as that which will be deduced in theensuing sheets- I. In the first year of the first caliph, his lieutenant Caled, the sword of God,and the scourge of the infidels, advanced to the banks of the Euphrates, and re­duced the cities of Anbar and Hira. Westward of the ruins of Babylon, a tribeof sedentary Arabs had fixed themselves on the verge of the desert; and Hira wasthe seat of a race of kings who had embraced the Christian religion, and reignedabove six hundred years under the shadow of the throne of Persia. (3) The lastof the Mondars was defeated and slain by Caled: his son was sent a captive to Me­dina; his nobles bowed before the successor of the prophet: the people weretempted by the example and success of their countrymen; and the caliph acceptedas the first fruits of foreign conquest, an annual tribute of seventy thousand piecesof gold. The conquerors, and even their historians, were astonished by the dawnof their future greatness. "In the same year," says Elmacin, "Caled foughtmany signal battles; an immense multitude of the infidels were slaughtered; andspoils, infinite and innumerable, were acquired by the victorious Moslems. "(4)But the invincible Caled was soon transferred to the Syrian war: the invasion ofthe Persian frontier was conducted by less active or less prudent commanders: theSaracens were repulsed with loss in the passage of the Euphrates; and, thoughthey chastised the insolent pursuit of the Magians, their remaining forces still ho­vered in the desert of Babylon. The indignation and fears of the Persians suspended for a moment their intes­tine divisions. By the unanimous sentence of the priests and nobles, their queenArzema was deposed; the sixth of the transient usurpers, who had arisen and va­nished in three or four years, since the death of Chosroes and the retreat of He-raclius. Her tiara was placed on the head of Vezdegerd, the grandson of Chos­roes; and the same era, which coincides with an astronomical period,(5) has re­corded the fall of the Sassanian dynasty and the religion of Zoroaster. (6) The youthand inexperience of the prince, he was only fifteen years of age, declined a peri­lous encounter; the royal standard was delivered into the hands of his generalRustam; and a remnant of thirty thousand regular troops was swelled in truth, orin opinion, to one hundred and twenty thousand subjects, or allies of the greatking. The Moslems, whose numbers were re-enforced from twelve to thirtythousand, had pitched their camp in the plains of Cadesia:(7) and their line, Cregorio Abulpharagio, interprete Edviardo Pocorkio. in quarto. Oxen. 1663; more useful for the literary thanthe civil history of the east. 4. Abulfedce Annates Mosleniki ad Ann, Hegira 406. a Jo. Tor. Rciske, in quarto.Lituia:, 1754; the best of our chronicles, both for the original and version; yet how far below the name ofAbulfeda! We know that he wrote at Hamah, in the fourteenth century. The three former were Christiansof the tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries; the two first, natives of Egypt; a Melchite patriarch, and a Ja­cobite scribe. (1) M. de Guignes (Hist, des Hum, torn. i. pref. xix. m.) has characterised, with truth and knowledge, thetwo sorts of Arabian historians, the dry annalist, and the tumid and flowery orator. (2) Bibliolheque Orientate, par M. (THerbelot, in folio, Paris, 1697. For.the character of the respectable au­thor, consult his friend Thevenot (Voyages du Levant, part 1. chap. 50.) His work is an agreeable miscellany,which must gratify every taste; but I never can digest the alphabetical order, and I find him more satisfactoryin toe Persian than the Arabic history. The recent supplement from the papers of M. M. Visdelou and Gaf-lond (in folio, La Haye, 177°) is of a different case, a medley of tales, proverbs, and Chinese antiquities. (3) Pocock will explain the chronology (Specimen Hist. Arabum. p. 66. 7-1.) and d'Anville the geography'Enphrate et le Tigre, p. 125.,) of the dynasty of the Almondars. The English scholar understood more Ara-ic than the mufti of Aleppo (Ockley, vol. ii. p. 34.:) the French geographer is equally at home in every age and every climate of the world. (4) Fecit et Cbaled plurima in hoc ano prcelia, in quibus vicerunt Muslimi, et infldeliam immensa multitu-dine occisa spolia infinita et innumera sunt nacti (Hist. Saracenica, p. 20.) The Chiistian annalist slides intothe national and compendious term of infidels, and 1 often adopt (I hope without scandal) this characteristicmode of ex pression. (5) A cycle of one hundred and twenty years, the end of which an intercalary month of thirty days, suppliedthe use of our bissextile, and restored the integrity of the solar year. In a great revolution of one thousandfour hundred and forty years, this intercalation was successively removed from the first to the twelfth month;but Hyde and Freret are involved ir, a profound controversy, whether the twelve, or only eight of these changes,were accomplished before the era of Yezdegerd, which is unanimously fixed to the 16th of June, A. D. 632. Howlaboriously does the curious spirit of Europe explore the darkest and most distant antiquities! (Hyde, de Reli.gione Pertarum, c. xiv—xviif. p. 181—211. Freret in the Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. xvi. p.233—267.) (6) Nine days after the death of Mahomet (7th June, A. D. 632.) we find the era of Yezdegerd (16th June, A.D. 632.;) and his accession cannot be postponed beyond the end of the first year. His predecessors could noctherefore resist the arms of the caliph Omar, and these unquestionable dates overthrow the thoughtless chrono­logy of Abulpharagius. See Ockley's Hist, of the Saracens, vol. i. p. 130. (7) Cadesia, says the Nubian geographer (p. 121.) is in roargine solitudinis, sixty-one leagues from Bagdad,