OCR Output 502 THE DECLINE AND' FALL tion of thefive causes. Weakness ofPolytheism. ■** impunity (it is thus that the bishop of Carthage chides the"lenity of his colleague) if such irregularities are suffered, there* is an end of Episcopal vigour ,4T; an end of the sublime and"divine power of governing the church, an end of Christianityw itself." Cyprian had renounced those temporal honours, whichit is probable he would never have obtained; but the acquisition ofsuch absolute command over the consciences and understanding of acongregation, however obscure or despised by the world, is moretruly grateful to the pride of the human heart, than the possessionof the most despotic power, imposed by arms and conquest on a re­luctant people. In the course of this important, though perhaps tedious, inquiry*I have attempted to display the secondary causes which so effica­ciously assisted the truth of the Christian religion. If among thesecauses we have discovered any artificial ornaments, any accidentalcircumstances, or any mixture of error and passion, it cannot appearsurprising that mankind should be the most sensibly affected bysuch motives as were suited to their imperfect nature. It was bythe aid of these causes, exclusive zeal, the immediate expectation ofanother world, the claim of miracles, the practice of rigid virtue,and the constitution of the primitive church, that Christianity spreaditself with so much success in the Roman empire. To the first of thesethe Christians were indebted for their invincible valour, whichdisdained to capitulate with the enemy whom they were resolved tovanquish. The three succeeding causes supplied their valour with themost formidable arms. The last of these causes united their courage,directed their arms, and gave their efforts that irresistible weight,which even a small band of well-trained and desperate volunteershas so often possessed over an undisciplined multitude, ignorantof the subject, and careless of the event of the war. In the variousreligions of Polytheism, some wandering fanatics of Egypt andSyria, who addressed themselves to the credulous superstition of