OCR Output 196 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. more warmly to save any one of (heir order. Theycould not see, without extreme concern, the guardian ofthe senate, the avenger of their dignity, and the invin­cible bulwark of their rights, against the attacks of thetribunes and their abettors, given up to the rage of thepopulace, and that only because his passion had carriedhim a little beyond the bounds of moderation, in the heatof the dispute. Of all the senators, Appius was the only one thatheld the tribunes, the people, and the judgment theywere about to pass, in sovereign contempt. Neither thethreats of the commons, nor ail the entreaties of the se­nate, couM ever prevail upon him even to change hisdress, or humble himself to solicit the favour of his judges:nay, nor in making his defence, to abate anything of hisusual haughtiness, or sharpness of stile. In every thing,lie retained the same externals, the same air of confidence,and the same boldness of speech; so that the people, forthe most part, were no less awed by him, wheti citedbefore them as a criminal, than they were before, whenhe was consul. He pleaded his cause once, but then itwas with his usual tone, and the authority of an accuser;and so much were the people and tribunes astonished athis resolution, that unsolicited, they put off his trial to afuture day, and thereafter were prevailed on to renew theprorogation. But, before that day arrived, he died of adistemper. The tribunes attempted to hinder the pro­nouncing his funeral oration; but the people would notconsent that so great a man should be deprived of anhonour so justly his due. They heard his praise afterhis death, wiih as much pleasure as they had his accusa­tion when alive. Nay, many of them assisted at his fu­neral. 'CHAP. LXII. The country of tlie jEqui and Sabines plundered. J. HIS same year, Valerius the consul, led an armyagainst the /Equi, and fmding it impracticable to drawthem to a battle, attempted to storm their camp. A ter­rible tempest accompanied with thunder and hail, put a