OCR Output 468 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book I\r. his contemptuous and pert mode of treating religious mattersis altogether offensive. The narrative, preserving throughoutan intentional contrast to the usual Greek historiographywith its artistic style, is correct and clear, but flat and languid,digressing with undue frequency into polemical discussionsor into biographical, not seldom very self-sufficient, de­scription of his own experiences. A controversial veinpervades the whole work; the author destined his treatiseprimarily for the Romans, and yet found among them onlya very small circle that understood him; he felt that heremained in the eyes of the Romans a foreigner, in the eyesof his countrymen a renegade, and that with his grand con­ception of his subject he belonged more to the future thanto the present. Accordingly he was not exempt from acertain ill-humour and personal bitterness, which frequentlyappear after a quarrelsome and paltry fashion in his attacksupon the superficial or even venal Greek and the uncriticalRoman historians, so that he degenerates from the tone ofthe historian to that of the reviewer. Polybius is not anattractive author; but as truth and truthfulness are ofmore value than all ornament and elegance, no other authorof antiquity perhaps can be named to whom we are indebtedfor so much real instruction. His books are like the sun inthe field of Roman history; at the point where they beginthe veil of mist which still envelops the Samnite andPyrrhic wars is raised, and at the point where they end anew and, if possible, still more vexatious twilight begins.Roman In singular contrast to this grand conception and treat- chrooiclera. ment of Roman history by a foreigner stands the contem­porary historical literature of native growth. At thebeginning of this period we still find some chronicles writtenin Greek such as that already mentioned (ii. 460) of Aulus151. Postumius (consul in 603); full of wretched rationalizing,and that of Gains Acilius (who closed it at an advanced142. age about 612). Yet under the influence partly of Catonianpatriotism, partly of the more refined culture of the Scipioniccircle, the Latin language gained so decided an ascendancyin this field, that of the later historical works not more thanone or two were written in Greek j* and not only so, but * The only real exception, so far as we know, is the Greek history of Gneui Aufidius,who flourished in Cicero's boyhood (Tusc. v. 38, 112), that is, about 90. 105. 660. The Greek memoirs of Publius Rutilius Rufus (consul in 649) are hardly to be regarded as an exception, since their author wrote them in exile at Smyrna,