OCR Output as. 70.] 495 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK XIV. Containing an Interval of Thirty-two Years. FROM THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA, TO THE DEATH OF ANTIGONUS. CHAP. I. OF THE WAR BETWEEN ARISTOBULUS AND HYRCANU9; THEIRAGREEMENT RELATIVE TO THE KINGDOM; AND THE SUB­SEQUENT FLIGHT OF HYRCANUS. WE have related the affairs of queenAlexandra, and her death, in theforegoing book; and will now speak of whatfollowed, and was connected with those his­tories: declaring before we proceed, thatwe have nothing so much at heart, as to*omit no facts either through ignorance orindolence. For we are treating upon thehis.tory and explication of such things, as thegreatest part of our readers are unacquaint­ed with, because of their distance from ourtimes; and we aim to do it with a beauty ofstyle so far as that is derived from properwords harmonically disposed; and from suchornaments of speech as may contribute tothe pleasure of our readers: that they mayentertain the knowledge of what we writewith some degree of satisfaction and plea­sure. But the principal end that authorsought to aim at above all the rest, is tospeak accurately, and to speak truly; forthe satisfaction of those that are otherwiseunacquainted with such transactions, andare obliged to believe what these writersinform them of. Hyrcanus then began his high-priesthoodon the fthird year of the hundred and seventyseventh Olympiad; when Quintus Horten-sius and Quintus Metellus, who was calledMetellus of Crete, were consuls at Rome:when presently Aristobulus began to makewar against him. And as it came to a battlewith Hyrcanus at Jericho, many of his sol~diers deserted him, and went over to his bro­ther. Upon this Hyrcanus fled into the cita­del: where Aristobulus's wife and childrenwere imprisoned by their mother, as we haveJsaid already; and attacked and overcamethose adversaries that fled thither, and laywithin the walls of the temple. So when hehad sent a message to his brother about com­promising the matters between them, he laidaside his enmity to him on these conditions:that Aristobulus should be king; and that heshould live without intermeddling with publicaffairs, and quietly enjoy the estate he hadacquired. When they agreed upon theseterms in the temple, and had confirmed theagreement with oaths, and the giving oneanother their ||right hands, and embracingone another, in the sight of the whole mul­titude, they departed: Aristobulus, to thepalace; and Hyrcanus, as a private man, tothe former house of Aristobulus. But there was a certain friend of Hyrca­ * Reland observes here, very justly, how Josephus'sdeclaration, that it was his great concern not only towrite an agreeable, accurate, and a true history, but alsodistinctly not to omit any thing of consequence, eitherthrough ignorance, or indolence; implies, that he couldnot, consistently with that resolution, omit the mention ofno famous a person as Jesus Christ. t Langius well observes, that this beginning of Hyr- canus's reign is rightly stated by Josephus: and implies,that he began before the middle of the 69th year be­fore the Christian Era. De Annis Christi II. 18, page336. J See Book XIII. chap. 16. II This is, I think, the first mention of confirming agreements by giving each other the right hand, in Josephus;which, however, frequently occurs afterward.