OCR Output 202 THE PELOPONN£SIAN WAR. The Macedonians, unable to make head against the nu­merous army by which they were invaded, retired within thewalled and fortified places of the country, which at this timewere not many. But Archelaus son of Perdiccas, succeed­ing his father in the kingdom, built those fortresses whichare now there, opened the roads, and made many other regu­lations, both in the military way about horses and arms, andin other public matters, more than all the eight precedingkings put together. The Thracian army from Doberuabroke first into that part of the country, which was formerlyin the possession of Philip. They took Eidomene by storm;and got Gortynia, Atalante, and some other places by com­position, which were readily brought to capitulate, out oftheir regard for Amyntas, whose son Philip now appearedamongst them. They also laid siege to Europus, but werenot able to reduce it. They afterwards advanced into theother Macedonia, lying to the left of Pella and Cyrrhus.Within these, they did not advance into Bottiaea and Pieria;but ravaged Mygdonia, Grestonia, and Anthemus. TheMacedonians never once thought of being able to makehead against them with their foot; but, sending for horsefrom their allies in the upper Macedonia, wherever by theadvantage of ground a few could encounter with many, theymade frequent attacks upon the Thracian army. Theymade so strong an impression, that nothing could resist suchexcellent horsemen and so completely armed. For thisreason, the enemy enclosed them about with their numerousforces, and thus made it exceeding hazardous for them tofight against such manifold odds of numbers ; so that at lastthey were forced to give over these skirmishes, judging itimprudent to run any hazards against so large an inequalityof strength. Sitalces, at a parley held with Perdiccas, imparted tohim the motives of the war. And, as the Athenians were notyet come up with their fleet, because diffident of his punc­tuality to the engagement between them, and had only senthim presents and embassadors, he detached part of his army