OCR Output B.VTIt. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 305 This being done, they again repaired to Miletus; andfrom hence they detach Pædaritus, the son of Leon,whom the'Lacedæmonians had sent expressly to be go­vernor of Chios, to march over land to Erythræ, ha­ving under his command the auxiliaries who had servedunder Amorges; and appoint Philippus to command atMiietus. And the summer ended. The winter now succeeding, after Tissaphernes hadgarrisoned and provided for the security of Iasus, he re­paired to Miletus, and distributed a month's subsistence,in pursuance of his engagements at Lacedæmon, to allthe ships, at the rate of an * Attic drachma to each ma­riner by the day; but for the remainder of time he de­clared he would only pay at the rate of Jdiree oboli, tillhe had consulted the king's pleasure; and, in cs"; hismaster's orders were for it, he said, he would make itup a complete drachma. But, as Hermocrates, the Sy-racusan commander, remonstrated sharply against thisusage, (for Theramenes, not regarding himlelf as ad­miral, since he was now at the head of the fleet merelyto carry it up to Astyochus, was very indolent about thearticle of pay,) it was at length compromised, that ex­cepting the five supernumerary ships, the crews of thereft should receive more than three oboli a man: For tothe five and fifty ships he paid -f thiee talents a month; Vol. II. X and, * 7<l- !. J Half a drachma. •f- Thrre is manifestly a fault here; for Tfia, three, in the original, should be read.j-gtaxorV, thirty, talents a month. Mr. Hobbes hath taken the pains to compute,and finds that the Peloponnesian ships carried eighteen men apitce. What i only soimall a crew as eighteen men for a ship of war with three banks of oars ? or, where(he complement was perhaps two hundred, did Tissaphernes only pay a tenth part ofthat number? Xenophon, in the first book of his Greek history, enables us to set all tolight;, Lyfander is negotiating with Cyrus for an increase of pay. Cyrus insists uponChe former agreement, made by Tissaphernes, that every ship should receive but*h:rty m'wa a month. The daily pay of each was of course one mha, or one hun­dred drachmas: Whence it appears, that, at chree oboli, or half a drachma, a man, thepay of sixty ships, each carrving two hundred men, would be just thirty talents.Thirty talents, therefore, paid to silty-five shifS for a month, wat two talents and a half thirst