OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL almost without business. The names and forms of the ancient!administration were preserved by Augustus with the most anxiouscare. The usual number of consuls, prætors, and tribunes ,s, wereannually invested with their respective ensigns of office, and con­tinued to discharge some of their least important functions. Thosehonours still attracted the vain ambition of the Romans, and theemperors themselves, though invested for life with the powers of theconsulship, frequently aspired to the title of that annual dignity, which,they condescended to share with the most illustrious of their fellow-citizens'6. In the election of these magistrates .the people, duringthe reign of Augustus, were permitted to expose all the incon­veniences of a wild democracy. That artful prince, instead ofdiscovering the least symptom of impatience, humbly solicited theirsuffrages for himself or his friends, and scrupulously practised allthe duties of an ordinary candidate'7. But we may venture to-ascribe to his councils, the first measure of the succeeding feign, bywhich the elections were transferred to the senate The as­semblies of the- people were for ever abolished, and the emperorswere delivered from a dangerous multitude, who, without re­storing liberty, might have disturbed, and perhaps endangered, the-established government. By declaring themselves the protectors of the people, Marius-and Cæsar had subverted the constitution of their country; But as'soon as the senate had been humbled and disarmed, such an assembly,consisting of five or six hundred'persons, was found1 a very tracta­ble and useful instrument of dominion. It was on the dignity of;the senate, that Augustus and his successors founded their new em­pire; and they affected, on every occasion, ta adopt the languageand principles of Patricians. In the administration of their ownpowers, they frequently consulted the great national council, andseemed to refer to its decision the most important concerns of peace'and war. Rome, Italy, and the internal, provinces were subject to the