OCR Output B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 245 cle of power: And yet, finding themselves unable togive any measure of luccess-to their projects by intro*during dissentions amongst them through political em­broilments, nor even by a powerful force, superior tothat of their foes, able to ward off the many blows theyhad received, they had fallen beforehand into great anxi­eties; and now, sadly beaten as they were at sea, onethought of which they never could hitherto have con­ceived, their despondency became more violent than e-ver. From this time the Syracusans scoured the wholeharbour without having any thing to fear. They hadalso formed a scheme of barring up its mouth; that theAthenians, though never so intent upon it, might forthe future not have it in their power to steal away.Their care and diligence were no longer employed onthe view alone of their own preservation, but on thelarger view of ruining the Athenians. They conclu­ded, and justly too, that the latter turns in their favourhad given them the ascendant over these invaders; and,could they but compass the total overthrow of this bodyof Athenians and their allies, the grand atchievementwould strike all Greece with admiration. Nay more,all other Grecians must reap the fruits of such success;of whom some would in an instant recover freedom, andothers be delivered from the fear of losing it: For theremaining strength of Athens would never be able tostand against that weight of war with which she must besoon incompassed about. And thus, could they (Syra-cusans) be the. glorious authors of luch desirable events,they must infallibly become objects of wonder, not onlyto all the present age, but to latest posterity. And of atruth, considered in such a light, it was great and glo­rious ambition, to aim at the conquest, not only of theAthenians, but also of their whole extensive and combi­ned alliance; and this, not merely to earn laurels forthemselves, but for the auxiliaries also who had engagedin their cause; since, exposed in the front of the war R 3 with .