OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRDSUS AT REFORM. 205 instead of the colleges themselves—which the. governmenthad frustrated in the comitia in 609 by the suggestion of re- 145.ligious scruples—was carried in 650 by Gnaeus Domitius io4.without the senate having been able even to venture aserious resistance. On the whole it seemed as if nothingwas wanted but a chief, who should give to the opposition afirm rallying point and a practical aim; and this was nowfound in Marius. For the execution of his task two methods of operationwere open; Marius might attempt to overthrow the oli­garchy either as imperator at the head of the army, or inthe mode prescribed by the constitution for constitutionalchanges: his own past career pointed to the former course,the precedent of Gracchus to the latter. It is easy tounderstand why he did not adopt the former plan, perhapsdid not even think of the possibility of adopting it. Thesenate was or seemed so powerless and helpless, so hatedand despised, that Marius conceived himself scarcely to needany other support in opposing it than his immense popu­larity, but would in case of necessity find such a support, not­withstanding the dissolution of the army, in the soldiersdischarged and waiting for their rewards. It is probable thatMarius, looking to Gracchus' easy and apparently almostcomplete victory and to his own resources far surpassingthose of Gracchus, deemed the overthrow of a constitutionfour hundred years old, and intimately bound up with thevarious habits and interests of the body-politic arrangedin a complicated hierarchy, a far easier task than it was.But any one who looked more deeply into the difficulties ofthe enterprise than Marius probably did might reflect, thatthe army, although in the course of transition from a militiato a band of mercenaries, was still during this state of transi­tion by no means adapted for the blind instrument of acoup d'etat, and that an attempt to set aside the resistingelements by military means would have probably increasedthe power of resistance in his antagonists. To mix up theorganized armed force in the struggle could not but appearat the first glance superfluous and at the second hazardous;they were just at the beginning of the crisis, and the anta­gonistic elements were still far from having reached theirlast, shortest, and simplest expression. Marius therefore discharged the army after his triumph The popu-in accordance with the existing regulation, and entered It p"ty.