OCR Output 260 LIVY. from Spain, was delivered out to the inhabitants at theeasy rate of four asses a bushel, by the curule ediles,Marcus Valerius Falto and Marcus Fabius Buteo. Inthe same year died Quintus Fabius Maximus, in ex­treme old age, if it be true, as some writers affirm, thathe had been augur for sixty-two years. He was cer­tainly a man worthy of the great surname which hebore, even if he were the first to whom it was applied.He surpassed his father, and was equal to his grand­father, in the honorable posts which he filled. Hisgrandfather, Rullus, was distinguished by a greaternumber of victories, and greater battles; but the ac­tions of Fabius, having such an antagonist as Hannibal,may be considered as equivalent to them all. He wasdeemed to possess more caution than spirit: but thoughit may be doubted whether the dilatoriness of his con­duct arose from his natural disposition, or from a con­viction that it was best suited to the war in which hewas engaged, yet nothing is more certain than that thisman alone, as the poet Ennius says, by his delays re­trieved our affairs. Quintus Fabius Maximus, his son,was consecrated augur in bis place, and Servius Sulpi-cius Galba pontiff, in his place also; for he held twooffices in the college of priests. The Roman gameswere repeated for one day; the plebeian thrice re­peated intire, by the curule ediles, Marcus SextiusSabinus and Caius Treniellius Flaccus. Both thesewere elected pretors, and, with them, Cains LiviusSalinator and Caius Aurelius Cotta. The different ac­counts given by writers render it uncertain whetherCaius Servilius, consul, presided at the elections thatyear, or Publius Sulpicius, nominated dictator by him,because he himself was detained in Etruria, being em­ployed, pursuant to a decree of the senate, in holdinginquisitions relative to the conspiracies of the principalinhabitants. 27. In the beginning of the following year, [A.U. C.550. B.C. 202] Marcus Servilius and Tiberius Clau­dius, summoning the senate to the capitol, consultedthem concerning the provinces. Both were desirous