OCR Output 212 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. caped at length, and king Agrippa forgave them their offences.And this'was the conclusion of what concerned th'ese men. 32. But as for the inhabitants of the city of Tiberias, theywrote to the king, and desired him to send them forces sufficientto be guard to their country ; for that they were desirous to comeover to him: this was what they wrote to him. But when I cameto them, they desired me to build their walls, as I had promisedthem to do; for they had heard that the walls of Tarichea e werealready built. I agreed to the proposal accordingly ; and whenI had made preparation for the entire building, I gave order tothe architects to go to work ; but on the third day, when I wasgone to Taricheae, which was thirty furlongs distant from Tibe­rias, it so fell out, that some Roman horsemen were discovered on'tbeir march, not far from the city, which made it to be supposedthat the forces were come from the king; upon which they shout­ed, and lifted up their voices in commendations of the king, andin reproaches against me. Hereupon one came running to me,and told me what their dispositions were, and that they had re­solved to revolt from me ; upon hearing which news I was verymuch alarmed; for I had already sent away my armed menfrom Taricheae to their own homes, because the next day wasour Sabbath ; for I would not have the people of Taricheae dis­turbed [on that day] by a multitude of soldiers; and indeed,whenever I sojourned at that city, I never took any particularcare for a guard about my own body, because I had had frequentinstances of the fidelity its inhabitants bore to me. I had nowabout me no more than seven armed men, besides some friends,and was doubtful what to do ; for to send to recall my own for­ces I did not think proper, because the present day was almostover ; and had those forces been with me, I could not take uparms on the next day, because our laws forbade us so to do, eventhough our necessity should be Tery great; and if I should per­mit the people of Taricheae, and the strangers with them, to guardthe city, I saw that they would not be sufficient for that purpose,and I perceived that I should be obliged to delay my assistance agreat while ; for I thought with myself that the forces that camefrom the. king would prevent me, and that I should be drivenout of the city. I considered, therefore, how to get clear of theseforces by a stratagem ; so I immediately placed those my friendsof Taricheae, on whom I could best confide, at the gates, to watchthose very carefully who went out at those gates ; I also calledto me the heads of families, and bid every one of them to seizeupon a ship *, to go on board it, and to take a master with them, and * In this section, as well as sect. 18. and sect. 33. those small vessels that saii-ed on the sea of Galilee, are called by JosephuJ Nw, and na.««, and mafn, i. e.