OCR Output 518 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. decrees of the cities, and rescripts of thepraetors to such epistles as concerned ourrights and privileges. And certainly such asare not ill disposed to what we write, maybelieve that they are all to this purpose; andthat by these specimens which we have in­serted. For since we have produced evidentmarks, that may still be seen, of the friend­ship we have had with the Romans, and de­monstrated that those marks are engravenupon columns and tables of brass in thecapitol, that are still in being, and preservedto this day, we have omitted to set them alldown, as needless and uninteresting. For Icannot suppose any one so perverse, as notto believe the friendship we have had withthe Romans; while they have demonstratedthe same by such a great number of theirdecrees relating to us. Nor will they doubtof our fidelity as to the rest of those decrees;since we have shewn the same in those wehave produced. And thus have we sufficient­ly explained that friendship and confederacywe at those times had with the Romans. CHAP. XI. MARCUS* SUCCEEDS TO THE PRESIDENCY OF SYRIA, ON THEASSASSINATION OF SEXTUS CESAR; CASSItTS COMES INTOSYRIA, AND DISTRESSES JUDEA; AND MALICHUS, AFTERTREACHEROUSLY KILLING ANTIPATER, IS SLAIN BYHEROD. ABOUT this timet the affairs of Syriawere in great disorder, on the followingoccasion. Cecilius Bassus, one of Pompey'sparty, laid a treacherous design against Sex-tus Caesar, and slew him: and then took hisarmy, and got the management of public af­fairs into his own hands. So there arose agreat war about Apamia; while Caesar's ge­nerals came against him, with an army ofhorsemen and footmen. To these Antipateralso sent succours, and his sons with them;as calling to mind the kindnesses they hadreceived from Caesar; and on that accounthe thought it but just to require punishmentfor him, and to take vengeance on the man that had murdered him. And as the warwasJ drawn out into a great length, Marcuscame from Rome to take Sextus's governmentupon him. But Caesar was slain by Cassiusand Brutus, in the senate-house, after he hadretained the government three years and sixmonths. As the war that arose upon the death ofCaesar was now|| begun, and the principalmen were all gone, some one way, and someanother, to raise armies, Cassius came fromRome into Syria, in order to receive the armythat lay in the camp at Apamia; and havingraised the siege, he brought over both Bassusand Marcus to his party. He then went overthe cities, and got together weapons and sol­diers; and laid great taxes upon those cities.And he chiefly oppressed Judea, and exactedof it seven hundred talents. But Antipater,when he saw the state to be in so great con­sternation and disorder, he divided the col­lection of that sum, and appointed his twosons to gather it. And so, that part of it wasto be exacted from Malichus, who was ill dis­posed to him; and part by others. And be­cause Herod did exact what was required ofhim from Galilee before others, he was in thegreatest favour with Cassius. For he thoughtit prudent to cultivate a friendship with theRomans; and to gain their good will at theexpense of others. Whereas the curators ofthe other cities, with their citizens, were soldfor slaves: and Cassius reduced four citiesinto a state of slavery; the two most potentof which were Gophna and Emmaus: andbesides these, Dydda and Thamna. Nay,Cassius was so very angry at Malichus, thathe would have killed him, had not Hyrcanus,by the means of Antipater, sent him a hun­dred talents of his own, and thereby pacifiedhis anger. After Cassius was gone out of Judea, Ma­lichus laid snares for Antipater: as thinkingthat his death would be the preservation ofHyrcanus's government. But Antipater per­ceived his design, and retired beyond Jordan, * For Marcus, this president of Syria, sent as successorto Sextus Caesar, the Roman historians require us to readMurcus in Josephus; and this perpetually, both in theseAntiquities, and in his history of the War: as the learnedgenerally agree. Whether he himself originally wrotethe name Marcus or Murcus; or whether the transcribershave not put a usual for an unusual name; which is sup­posed to have been a practice not uncommon amongst them; cannot now be known. t An. 45. j The reason of the protraction of this war at Apamia,before the murder of Caesar, Dr. Hudson observes, maybe seen in Strabo, XVI. page 752. though the entire pas­sage be too large for this place. See Prideaux at theyears 46, 45, 44, 43. 11 An. 44.