OCR Output C. VIII. j THE GREAT PLAIN. 131 earth and a succession of children; and that this prolificwater might never fail them while they continued to herighteous." To these prayers Elisha joined proper opera足tions of his hands after a skilful manner, and changed thefountain; and that water, which had been the occasion ofbarrenness and famine before, from that time did supply anumerous posterity, and afford great abundance to the coun足try. Accordingly, the power of it is so great in watering theground, that if it do but once touch a country, it affords asweeter nourishment than other waters do when they lie solong upon them, till they are satiated with them. For whichreason the advantage gained from other waters when theyflow in great plenty is but small, while that of this water isgreat when it flows even in little quantities. Accordingly, itwaters a larger space of ground than any other waters do,and passes along a plain of seventy furlongs long and twentybroad; wherein it affords nourishment to those most excellentgardens that are thick set with trees. There are in it manysorts of palm-trees that are watered by it, different from eachother in taste and name ; the better sort of them, when theyare pressed, yield an excellent kind of honey, not much in足ferior in sweetness to other honey. This country withal pro足duces honey from bees ; it also bears that balsam which is themost precious of all the fruits in that place, cypress-treesalso, and those that bear myrobalanum ; so that he who shouldpronounce this place to be divine would not be mistaken,wherein is such plenty of trees produced as arc very rare,and of the most excellent sort. And, indeed, if we speak ofthose other fruits, it will not be easy to light on any climatein the habitable earth that can well be compared to it: whatis here sowed comes up in such clusters, the cause of whichseems to me to be the warmth of the air and the fertility ofthe waters : the warmth calling forth the sprouts, and makingthem spread, and the moisture making every one of themtake root firmly, and supplying that virtue which it stands inneed of in summer-time. Now this country is then so sadlyburnt up that nobody cares to come at it; and if the waterbe drawn up before sun-rising, and after that exposed to tho