OCR Output 380 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he had seen this dream, he called the magi­cians together again; and inquired of themabout it, desiring them to tell him what it sig­nified. But when none of them could findout the meaning of the dream, nor discoverit to the king, Daniel was the only personthat explained it. And as he foretold, so itcame to pass. For after he had continuedin the wilderness the aforementioned intervalof time, while no one durst attempt to seizehis kingdom, during those seven years; heprayed to God that he might recover histhrone; and be returned to it. But let noone blame me for writing down every thingof this nature, as I find it in our ancientbooks. For as to that matter, I have plainlyassured those that think me defective in anysuch point, that I intended to do no more thantranslate the Hebrew books into the Greeklanguage, and promised to explain those facts,without adding any thing to them of my own,or taking any thing away from them. CHAP. XI. OF NEBUCHADNEZZAR, AND HIS SUCCESSORS; THE DISSO­LUTION OF THEIR GOVERNMENT BY THE PERSIANS, THEAFFAIRS OF DANIEL, AND THE PROPHECIES HE DE­LIVERED IN MEDIA. OW when king Nebuchadnezzar hadreigned forty-three years,* he ended N his life.f He was an active man, and morefortunate than the kings were before him.Berosus makes mention of his actions in thethird book of his Chaldaic history, wherehe says, "When his father Nabuchodonosor[Nabopollassar] heard that the governorwhom he had set over Egypt, and the placesabout Coele Syria and Phoenicia, had re­volted from him, while he was not himselfable any longer to undergo the hardships ofWar; he committed to his son Nebuchad­nezzar, who was still but a youth, some partsof his army; and sent him against them.So when Nebuchadnezzar had given battle,and fought with the rebel, he defeated him,and reduced the country under subjection;and made it a branch of his own kingdom.But about that time it happened that hisfather fell ill, and ended his life in the cityBabylon; when he had reigned twenty-oneyears.J And when he was made sensiblethat his father was dead, he settled the af­fairs of Egypt, and other countries, as alsothose that concerned the captive Jews, Phoe­nicians, Syrians, and those of the Egyptiannations; and having committed the convey­ance of them to Babylon to certain of hisfriends, together with the body of his army,and the rest of their ammunition and pro­visions; he went himself hastily, accompa­ probably must have understood those other parallelphrnses, of a time, times, and a half, VII. 25. and XII.9. of so many prophetic years also. Though he lets usknow, by his hint at the interpretation of the seventyweeks, as belonging to the fourth monarchy, and the de­struction of Jerusalem by the Romans, in the days ofJosephus, chap. 2. that he did not think those years tobe bare years; but rather days for years; by whichreckoning, and by which alone, could seventy weeks, orfour hundred and ninety days, reach to the age of Jose­phus. But as to the truth of those seven years' banish­ment of Nebuchadnezzar from men, and his living so longamong the beasts, the very small remains we have anywhere else of this Nebuchadnezzar, prevent our expecta­tion of any other full account of it. So far we know byPtolemy's Canon, a contemporary record, as well as byJosephus's presently, that he reigned in all forty-threeyears: that is eight years after we meet with any account of his actions. One of the last of which was thethirteen years' siege of Tyre, XI. 11. where yet the oldLatin has three years and ten months. Yet were hisactions before so remarkable, both in sacred and profaneauthors, that such a vacuity of eight years at the least,at the latter end of his reign, must be allowed to agreevery well with Daniel's accounts; that after a brfctal lifeof seven years' duration, he might return to his reason,and to the exercise of his royal authority for one wholeyear at least before his death. * These forty-three years for the duration of the reignof Nebuchadnezzar are, as I have just observed, the samenumber as that in Ptolemy's Canon. Moses Chorenensiealso confirms this captivity of the Jews under Nebuchad­nezzar; and adds, what is very remarkable, that one ofthose Jews that were carried by him into captivity, gotaway into Armenia; and raised the great family of theBagratidae there. See page 1, 58, 91, 98, 100, 109, 123,124, 136, 180, 184. t This prince died in the year of the world 3442, andbefore Christ 562; after he had reigned, from the deathof his father, according to the Babylonish account, threeand forty years. He was certainly one of the greatestprinces that had appeared in the east for many ages be­fore him, and according to Megasthenes, (as he is cited byJosephus, Antiq. lib. X. c. 11.) both for his enterprisesand performances, far excelled even Hercules himself.The same historian, (as he is quoted by Eusebius, Prep,lib. IX. c. 41.) informs us, that a little before his death,he foretold his subjects of the coming of the Persians,and their subduing the kingdom of Babylon; but this hemight gather from the prophet Daniel, and especiallyfrom the interpretation of his dreams. Prideavx's Con­nection, anno 562. B. J These twenty-one years here ascribed to Nabopol­lassar, the father of the great Nebuchadnezzar, are thesame with those given him in Ptolemy's Canon. Andnote here, that what Dr. Prideaux says, Connection, at