OCR Output Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE j£xy»; under Darius the master of his horse, and Philip the son of Ja»-cimus, the general of his army. 5. Upon this the men of power, with the high priests, as alsoall the part of the multitude that were desirous of peace, tookcourage, and seized upon the upper city [Mount Sion] j for theseditious part had the lower city and the temple in their power:so they made use of stones and slings perpetually against oneanother, and threw darts continually on both sides; and sometimesit happened that they made incursions by troops, and fought itjout hand to hand, while the seditious were superior in boldness,but the king's soldiers in skill. These last strove chiefly to gainthe temple, and to drive those out of it who profaned it; as didthe seditious, with Eleazar, besides what they had already, la­bour to gain the upper city. Thus were there perpetual slaugh­ters on both sides for seven days time j but neither side wouldyield up the parts they had seized on. : j 6. Now the next day was the festival of Xylophory, uponwhich the custom was for every one to bring wood for the altar(that there might never be a want of fuel for that fire which wasunquenchable audalways burning); upon that day they excludedthe opposite party from the observation of this part of religion.And when they had joined to themselves many of the Sicarii,who crowded in among the weaker people (that was the namefor such robbers as had under their bosoms swords called Sicx),they grew bolder, and carried their undertaking farther ; inso-much, that the king's soldiers were overpowered by their mul­titude and boldness, and so they gave way, and were driven outof the upper city by force. The others then set fire to the houseof Ananias the high-priest, and to the palaces of Agrippa andBernice: after which they carried the fire to the place where thearchives were reposited, and made haste to burn the contracts be­longing to their creditors, and thereby to dissolve their obliga­tions for paying their debts; and this was done in order to gain.the multitude of those who had been deb tors, and that they mightpersuade the poorer sort to join in their insurrection with safetvagainst the more wealthy j so the. keepers of the records fledaway, and the rest set fire to them. And when they had thusburnt down the nerves of the city, they fell upon their enemies;at which time some of the men of power, and of the high-priests,went into the vaults under ground, and concealed themselves,while others fled with the king's soldiers to the upper palace,and shut the gates immediately ; among whom were A nanias thehigh-priest, and the ambassadors that had been sent to Agrippa.And now the seditious were contented with the victory they had gotten,