OCR Output 176 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Bouk XII. and rose up together, and destroyed many of them, as gainingadvantage over them by laying snares for them, and making se­cret conspiracies against them. Judas made perpetual expedi­tions against these men, and endeavoured to restrain them fromthose incursions, and to prevent the mischiefs they did to theJews. So he fell upon the Idumeans, the posterity of Esau,at Acrabattene, and slew a great many of them, and took theirspoils. He also shut up the sons of Bean, that laid wait for theJews, and he sat down about them, and besieged them, and burnttheir towers, and destroyed the men [that were in them]. Af­ter this he went thence in haste against the Ammonites, who hada great and a numerous army; of which Timotheus was thecommander. And when he had subdued them, he seized on thecity Jazer, and took their wives and their children captives, andburnt the city, and then returned into Judea. But when theneighbouring nations understood that he was returned, they gottogether in great numbers, in the land of Gilead, and cameagainst those Jews that were at their borders, who then fled tothe garrison of Dametha; and sent to Judas to inform him thatTimotheus was endeavouring to take the place whither theywere fled. And as these epistles were reading, there came othermessengers out of Galilee, who informed him that the inhabitantsof Ptolemais, and of Tyre and Sidon, and strangers of Galilee,were gotten together. 2. Accordingly Judas, upon considering what was fit to bedone, with relation to the necessity both these cases required,gave order that Simon his brother should take three thousandchosen men, and go to the assistance of the Jews in Galilee, whilsthe and another of his brothers, Jonathan, made haste into theland of Gilead, with eight thousand soldiers. And he left Jo­seph, the son of Zacharias, and Azarius, to be over the rest ofthe forces; and charged them to keep Judea very carefully, andto fight no battles with any persons whomsoever until his re­turn. Accordingly, Simon went into Galilee, and fought theenemy, and put them to flight, and pursued them to the verygates of Ptolemais, and slew about three thousand of them; andtook the spoils of those that were slain, and those Jews whomthey had made captives, with their baggage; and then returnedhome. 3. Now as for Judas Maccabeus, and his brother Jonathan,they passed over the river Jordan; and when they had gonethree days' journey, they light upon the Nabateans, who cameto meet them peaceably, and who told them how the affairs ofthose in the land of Gilead stood; and how many of them werein distress, and driven into garrisons, and into the cities of Ga­lilee: and exhorted him to make haste to go against the foreign­