OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 387 and most mischievous of nil conceivable political conditions—in fact the beginning of the end. "We do not go too farwhen we assert that the long-undermined Roman common­wealth must have necessarily fallen to pieces, had not Sullaby his intervention in Asia and Italy saved its existence.It is true that Sulla's constitution bad as little enduranceas that of Cromwell, and it was not difficult to see that hisstructure was no solid one; but it is arrant thoughtlessnessto overlook the fact that without Sulla most probably thevery site of the building would have been swept away bythe waves; and the blame of its want of stability doesnot fall primarily on Sulla. The statesman builds onlyso much as in the sphere assigned to him he can build.What a man of conservative views could do to save the oldconstitution, Sulla did; and he himself had a forebodingthat, while he might probably erect a fortress, he would beunable to create a garrison, and that the utter worthlessnessof the oligarchs would render any attempt to save theoligarchy vain. His constitution resembled a temporary dikethrown into the raging breakers; it was no reproach to thebuilder, if some ten years afterwards the waves swallowedup a structure reared iu defiance of nature and not defendedeven by those whom it sheltered. The statesman has noneed to be referred to highly commendable isolated reforms,such as those of the Asiatic revenue-system and of criminaljustice, that he may not summarily dismiss Sulla's ephe­meral restoration; he will admire it as a reorganizationof the Eoman commonwealth judiciously planned and onthe whole consistently carried out under infinite difficulties,and he will place the deliverer of Rome and the accom-plisher of Italian unity below, but yet in the same class with,Cromwell. It is not, however, the statesman alone who has a voice in Immoraljudging the dead; and with justice outraged human feeling an^ super-will never reconcile itself to what Sulla did or suffered others fii™'natUR'to do. Sulla not only established his despotic power by un- guuan ri>scrupulous violence, but in doing so called things by their storation.right name with a certain cynical frankness, through which hehas irreparably offended the great mass of the weakheartedwho are more revolted at the name than at the thing, while thecool and dispassionate character of his crimes makes themcertainly appear to the moral judgment more revolting thanthe crimes that spring from passion. Outlawries, rewards