OCR Output INTRODUCTION. 45 Athenians, in concert with his colleagues, detaches the Ma­cedonian horse, and a few of their allies to Olynthus to pre­vent any sally from thence ; and then, breaking up theircamp, they marched directly for Potidaea. But, when theywere advanced as far as the isthmus, and saw their enemiesdrawn up in order to fight, they also formed; and in a littletime they came to an action. The wing under Aristeus,Corinthians, and the very flower of their strength, who en­gaged with him, soon compelled their enemies to tuna theirbacks, and pursued execution to a great distance: but therest of the army, composed of Potidaeans and Peloponne-sians, were defeated by the Athenians, and chased to thevery walls of Potidaea. Aristeus, returning from his pursuit,perceived the rout of the rest of the army, and knew notwhither with the least hazard to retreat, whether to Olynthusor Potidaea. But at last, he determined to embody toge­ther those he had about him, and, as Potidaea lay at thesmallest distance, to throw himself into it with all possiblespeed. This with difficulty he effected, by plunging into thewater near the abutments of the pier amidst a shower ofmissive weapons, with the loss indeed of some of his men,but the safety of the larger number. Those who should have come to succour the Potidaeansfrom Olynthus, which is at no greater distance than sixtystadia-*, and situated in view, at the beginning of the battle,when the colours were elevatedf, advanced indeed a littleway as designing to do it, and the Macedonian horse drewup against them as designing to stop them. But, as the vic­tory was quickly gained by the Athenians, and the colours • About six miles. t The elevation of the colours or ensigns was the signal of joining battle,and they were kept up during the whole continuance of it: The depressionof them was a signal to desist, or the consequence of a defeat. The depres­sion of the colours in this mstance, was a proof to the Macedonian cavalry,that all was over. The Athenians in their colours bore an owl, as sacredto Minerva the tutelary goddess of Athens. See Puffer's Jrcfuro!»gia Or**\7, \ol. ij. e. 9. Vol. I. U