OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. cated the new recruits in the knowledge and practiceof military virtue. Unfolding the miraculous image ofChrist he urged them to revenge the holy altars whichhad been profaned by the worshippers of fire; address­ing them by the endearing appellations of sons and bre­thren, he deplored the public and private wrongs of therepublic. The subjects of a monarch were persuadedthat they fought in the cause of freedom; and a similarenthusiasm was communicated to the foreign mercena­ries who must have viewed with equal indifference theinterest of Rome and of Persia. Heraclius himself, withthe skill and patience of a centurion, inculcated the les­sons of the school of tactics, and the soldiers were assidu­ously trained in the use of their weapons, and the exer­cises and evolutions of the field. The cavalry and in­fantry in light or heavy armour were divided into twoparts; the trumpets were fixed in the centre, and theirsignals directed the march, the charge, the retreat, orpursuit; the direct or oblique order, the deep or extend­ed phalanx; to represent in fictitious combat the opera­tions of genuine war. Whatever hardship the emperorimposed on the troops, he inflicted with equal severityon himself; their labour, their diet, their sleep, weremeasured by the inflexible rules of discipline ; and, with­out despising the enemy, they were taught to repose animplicit confidence in their own valour and the wisdomof their leader. Cilicia was soon encompassed with thePersian arms; but their cavalry hesitated to enter thedefiles of mount Taurus, till they were circumvented bythe evolutions of Heraclius, who insensibly gained theirrear, whilst he appeared to present his front in order ofbattle. By a false motion which seemed to threaten Ar­menia, he drew them, against their wishes, to a generalaction. They were tempted by the artful disorder of hiscamp; but when they advanced to combat, the ground,the sun, and the expectation of both armies, were unpro-pitious to the barbarians; the Romans successfully re-