OCR Output Chap. V. ANTigumES or THE JEWS. 263 nia, and Arethusa, to their own inhabitants: these were in theinland parts. Besides those that had been demolished, and alsoof the maritime cities, Gaza, and Joppa, and Dora, and Strato'sTower; which last Herod rebuilt after a glorious manner, andadorned with havens, and temples, and changed its name to Ce-sarea. All these Pompey left in a state of freedom, and joinedthem to the province of Syria. 5. Now the occasions of this misery which came upon Jeru­salem, were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, by raising a seditionone against the other; for now we lost our liberty, and becamesubject to the Romans, and were deprived of that country whichwe had gained by our arms from the Syrians, and were compel­led to restore it to the Syrians. Moreover, the Romans ex­acted of us, in a little time, above ten thousand talents. Andthe royal authority, which was a dignity formerly bestowed onthose that were high priests, by the right of their family, be­came the property of private men. But of these matters weshall treat in their proper places. Now Pompey committed Cce-lesyria, as far as the river Euphrates and Egypt, to Scaurus,with two Roman legions, and then went away to Cilicia, r.ndmade haste to Rome. He also carried bound along with himAristobulus and his children; for he had two daughters, and asmany sons; the one of which ran away, but the younger, An-tigonus, was carried to Rome, together with h5s sisters. CHAP. V. How Scaurus made a league of mutual assistance ivith Aretas.And what Gabinius did in Judea, after he had conqueredAlexander the son of Aristobulus. § 1. OCAURUS made now an expedition against Petrea, inArabia, and set on fire all the places round about it, because ofthe great difficulty of access to it. And as his army was pinch­ed by famine, Antipater furnished him with corn out of Judea.and with whatever else he wanted, and this at the command ofHyrcanus. And when he was sent to Aretas, as an ambassadorby Scaurus, because he had lived with him formerly, he per­suaded Aretas to give Scaurus a sum of money, to prevent theburning of his country; and undertook to be his surety for threehundred talents. So Scaurus, upon these terms, ceased to makewar any longer: which was done as much at Scaurus' desire,as at the desire of Aretas. 2. Some time after this, when Alexander, the son of Aristo­bulus, made an incursion into Judea, Gabinius came from Rometo Syria, as commander of the Roman forces. He did many