OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 357 at sea, by furnishing them with pilots; but farther, werecontinually alarming the Samians at home, and shelteringtheir deserters. From these apprehensions they assembled aforce from among their dependents, sailed thither, and hav足ing defeated in battle those who came out of Antandrus tooppose them, gain once more possession of that town. Andno long time after, Lamachus, who had been detached toPontus, having anchored in the river Calex in the districtof Heraclea, lost all his ships. A heavy rain had fallen inthe upper country, and the land-flood rushing suddenlydown, bore them all away before it. He himself and themen under his command were forced to march over landthrough Bithynia (possessed by those Thracians who acreseated on the other side of the strait in Asia) to Chalcedon,a colony of the Megareans, in the mouth of the Euxinesea. This summer also Demosthenes, immediately after he hadquitted the Megaris, with the command of forty sail of Athe足nians, arrives at Naupactus. For with him, and with Hip足pocrates, some persons of the Boeotian cities in those partshad been concerting schemes how to change the governmentof those cities, and introduce a democracy on the Athenianmodel. The first author of this scheme was Ptoeodotus anexile from Thebes, and matters were now ready for exe足cution. Some of them had undertaken to betray Siphae: Siphaeis a maritime town in the district of Thespiae, upon the gulfof Crissa. Others of Orchomenus engaged for Chaeronea,a town tributary to that Orchomenus which was formerlycalled the Minyeian but now the Boeotian. Some Orchome-nian exiles were the chief undertakers of this point, and werehiring soldiers for the purpose from Peloponnesus. Chaero-nea is situated on the edge of Boeotia towards Phanotis ofof Phocis, and is in part inhabited by Phocians. The shareassigned to the Athenians was the surprisal of Delium, atemple of Apollo in Tanagra, looking towards Euboea. These Vol.. I. 3 N