OCR Output SYRIA. SYRIA. 1075 'tht monstrous Atargalis, tbe Perceto of themlu); Chalcis ad Belum, which gave its name toi* r*cion of Chalcidene, the most fertile in Syria;■hi Cjrrnestiee, numed from Cyrrhum; tbe Gazatae,mikreni, Gabeni; two tetrarchies named Granu-nuue; the Kmeuni; Hylatae; the Ituraeans andetr kindred Baetarveni; tbe Mariammitani, tbe'.nnhi of Mammisea, Paradisua, Pagrae, Pinaritae;r» other Seleuciae, the one at the Euphrates, thei«T »t Bclus; the Card)tenses. All these hera in Cuelesyria: the towns and peoples enume-lai in tbe rest of Syria, omitting those on the■panics, which are separately described, are theviiiasii, Berceenses, Epiphanoenses; on the east,t Ludiceana by Libanus, tlie Leucadii, Larisaci,■«1h seventeen tetrarchies with barbarous names; further specified. The towns named in connec-ii with the Euphrates are, Samosata, the head oftnmigene, xL M. P. below the cataracts, where it^na, the Marsyas; Cingilla tbe end, and Im-> U« commencement, of Commagene; Epiphania,Umliia ad Eaphraten; then Zeugma, Ixxii. M. P.m Samotala, celebrated for the bridge over tbephratas—whence its name—which connected it-1 Apuneia on tbe left bank of the river; Euro pus;awarui, then called AmphipoUs. On reachingu the river turned to the east, leaving the vastrrt of Palmyra on the right. Palmyra wasrxxvii. M. P. from the Parthian city of SeleuceiaIi.-rira, cciii. M. P. from the nearest part of theian coast, and xxvii. M. P. from Damascus. Be- (" infra*) the deserts of Palmyra was the region^lendena,a^ld the above-named Hierapolis, Beroea, Chalcis; and beyond ("ultra") Palmyra,Emesa hulios, half as near again (" dimidio propior ")Via aa waa Damascus (lb. cc. 23—26).I » difficult to discover many of these names in< Latin disguise still further obscured by corruptIters; but many of them will occur in the mureirate and methodtcal notices of Ptolemy, in con-.<'!> witii which a comparative Geography ofiret and Modern Syria may be attempted. Tbe•iaries of Syria are fixed by Ptolemy consist-» with earlier writers. On the N., Ciiicia. partappodocia, and Mons A mail us; on the W. thean sea; an the S. Judaea; on the E. the Ara- draert as far as the ford of the Euphrates, Tlmpaacus; then tbe river itself as far asfadooa(Ftol. v. 15. §§ 1—8).tie districts and towns are enumerated underf-'.l'iwing subdivisions: — The Coast (§§ 2,3) after Issus and the Cili-Gatea, 1. Alexandreia by the Issus. 2. Myrian- 3. RbosKus. 4. The lihossian Rock (owd>«Aoj).foxaia of Pieria. 6. The mouth of the Orontes.**ilion. 8. Heracleia. 9. Laodieeia. 10. Gabala.Pakoa. IS. Balaneae. [Then follows l'hoe- (rum the Eleutlieras to tbe Churseus, S. of. S* Phoexice.] Of the above-named maritimea of Syria, No. 2 alone has occurred in Xeno-. 5 perasangs S. of the Cilician Gates. Both nsl most of the others occur in Strabo andr, and tbe distances are furnished by the author* Madiaamus Maris Magni, and the Itinerarium*i*iaitairam. Alexandreia (hkawleri'm). not oil by Strabo or Pliny, was 45 stadia from-i cian Prlac. Myriandms was 80 stadia fromlib J ma. Its site has not been identified (Ains-h. TrartU m the Tract of the Ten Thousand.') bat is conjoctursJIy. though probably, placeduscle on tbe river JMJgehan. (Observations on Syria, p. 179.) Rhossus (now Arriu) is90 stadiafrom Myriandrus ; while the Iihossicus Scopulus,80 stadia from Khossus, is to be ideutilied in theRat Khanzeer, the southern promontory of the Gulfof Iskanderim, a well-known nautical feature oilthis coast. (76. p. 180; Chesney, Expedition, 1. p. 410.) Between Seleuceia and tbe Rhossicrock the Stadiasmus inserts Georgia, 40 stadiafrom the former, 80 from the latter. Seleuceia isclearly marked by extensive and important ruins.[Skleuckia.] From Seleuceia to the Orontes, 40stadia. Between the Orontes and Poseidion theStadiasmus enumerates Nymphaeum, 15 stadia;Long Island (Moxpa i^itoi), one of the Pigeon Rocks,50 stadia; Chaladrus, or Chaladropolis (obviouslythe Charadrus of Ptolemy), 10 stadia; Sidonia,60 stadia, above which was a lofty mountain calledthe Throne (fcVoVus), distant 80 stadia fromPoseidium. Heracleia (Ras-el-Basit), situated on acape called Folia, was 100 stadia from Poseidium,and Luodiceia 120 stadia direct distance fromHeracleia; between which the Stadiasmus insertsPasieria and Albus Port us, the former 120 stadiafrom Polia, the latter 30 stadia from Laodieeia,with a like interval between the two. From Lao­dieeia the Stadiasmus reckons 200 stadia to Balaneae(Baniai), in direct distance, subdivided as follows:from Laodieeia to a navigable river, probably A'oAr-el-Kebir, 70 stadia; from that to Gabala (Jtbili).80; to Paltus (Boldo), 30; to Cape Balaneae, 70stadia. ii. Br the Euphrates (§ 11). 1. Cholma-dara. 2. Samosata. iii. 1'ibkia. (§ 12.) 1. Pinara. 2. Pagrae. 3.The Syrian Gates. This was the N.-western partof the country, where Bagras still marks about thecentre of the district. [Faorae.] iv. Cyrrhestice (§ 13). 1. Ariseria. 2.Rhegias. 3. Buba. 4. Heracleia, 5. Ninra. 6. Hier­apolis. 7. Cyrrbus. 8. Berrboea. 9. Baena. 10. Pa-phara. This district lay to the east of Pieria, andcorresponded with the fertile plain watered by thethree streams that flow into the lake of Antioch, theLabotas, the Arceutlius, and the Oenoparas ofStrabo; on tho last and easternmost of which, nowcalled the Afrtn, the modern village of Comstill represents the ancient Cyrrhua, the capital ofthe district to which it gave its name. This partof Syria is so little known that it is impossible toidentify its other ancient towns, the names of which,however, might doubtless be recovered in existingvillages or sites. The village of Coras, which husruins in its vicinity, is situated on the slopes ofthe Taurus, about 40 miles N. by W. of Aleppoand 15 miles NW. of Kiln, the seat of the Turco­man government, whose limits nearly correspondwith those of the ancient Cyrrhestice. (Chesney,Euphrates Expedition, vol. i. p. 422, and map i.) v. Br tub Euphrates (§ 14). 1. llriina. 2. Arustis. 3. Zeugma. 4. Europus. 5. Caecilia.6. Bethamania. 7. Gerrbe. 8. Ariniara. 9. Kragizaor Errhasiga. These towns of the Euphrates weresituated lower down the stream than those mentionedabove (iii.), apjiarently between Samosat and thoriver Sftjiir, a tributary of the Euphrates, which,rising near 'A in Tab, enters tint river a little belowsome ancient ruins, supposed to represent theCaecilia of Ptolemy (No. 5). The names ofseveral of these towns are still preserved in thenative villages situated between the Sajnr and theEuphrates; and it is clear that the geographer did 3 z 2