OCR Output 406 FLAVIUS JOSEPHOS j,i$. I. desert, and get the land which we now dwell in, and buildour city, and that temple which hath been so famous amongall mankind? And, besides, he ought to have spoken moreabout our legislator than by giving us his bare name ; andto have informed us of what nation he was, and what parentshe was derived from ; and to have assigned the reasons whyhe undertook to make such laws concerning the gods, audconcerning matters of injustice with regard to men duringthat journey: For, in case the people were by birth Egyp­tians, they would not on a sudden have so easily changed thecustoms of their country: and in case they had been foreign­ers, they had for certain some laws or other, which had beenkept by them from long custom. It is true, that with regardto those who had ejected them, they might have sworn neverto bear good-will to them, and might have had a plausiblereason for so doing: but if these men resolved to wage animplacable war against all men, in case they had acted aswickedly as he relates of them, and this while they wantedthe assistance of all men, this demonstrates a kind of madconduct indeed; but not of the men themselves, but verygreatly so of him that tells such lies about them. He hathalso impudence enough to say, that a name implying robbers1of the temples was given to their city, and that this name wasafterward changed. The reason of which is plain, that theformer name brought reproach and hatred upon them in thetimes of their posterity, while it seems those that built thecity thought they did honor to the city by giving it such aname. So we see that this fine fellow had such an unboundedinclination to reproach us, that he did not understand thatrobbery of temples is not expressed by the same word andname among the Jews as it is among the Greeks. But whyshould a man say any more to a person that tells such impu­dent lies ? However, since this book is arisen to a competentlength, I will make another beginning, and endeavor to addwhat still remains to perfect my design in the following book. 'That is the meaning of Hierosyla in Greek, not in Hebrew.