OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 49 made to punish them by force of arms, resentment anddread of immediate danger might produce the sameeffect. And the whole body of Vestinians, too, was atleast equal in strength to the Samnites, being com­posed of the Marsians, the Pelignians, and the Mar-rusinians ; against all of whom they would have tocontend if any steps were taken against that nation.However, that opinion prevailed, which might at thetime seem to have more spirit than prudence ; but theevent afforded a proof that fortune assists the brave.The people, in pursuance of the direction of the senate,ordered war against the Vestinians, which provincefell by lot to Junius ; Samnium to Camillus. Armieswere led to both places, which by carefully guardingthe frontiers, prevented a junction of the forces of theirenemies. But Lucius Furius, on whom the principalweight of the business rested, was deprived of hisshare in the management of it, being seized with asevere sickness. He was therefore ordered to nomi­nate a dictator to conduct the war, and he nominatedLucius Papirius Cursor, the most celebrated general,by far, of any in that age, who appointed Quintus Fa-bius Maximus Rullianus master of the horse. Thesecommanders were remarkable for their exploits in war ;but more so for a quarrel which arose between them­selves, and which proceeded almost to violence. Theother consul in the territory of the Vestinians carriedon operations of various kinds; and in all was uni­formly successful. He utterly laid waste their lands,and by spoiling and burning their houses and corn,compelled them to come to an engagement; when, inone battle, he reduced the strength of the Vestiniansto such a degree, though not without loss on his ownside, that they not only fled to their camp, but fear­ing even to trust to the rampart and trench, dis­persed from thence into the several towns, in hopes oftmding security in the situation and fortifications oftheir cities. At last he undertook to reduce theirtowns by force ; and so ardent were the soldiers, andsuch their resentment for the wounds which they hadMV. V0L- D