OCR Output 54 SILVEH. itself; the second is the refuse, after it is purified. Some personsreckon two kinds of foam only, which they call lithus and peu-mene;9 the third kind, molybdena, will be mentioned when Itreat of lead. To render this foam fit for use, it is broken intopieces the size of a walnut,1 and is again roasted, the flame beingurged by bellows, in order to separate the charcoal and the ashes;it is then washed and at the same time quenched in vinegar or inwine.1 If it be the species called argyritis, in order to give it theproper whiteness, we are directed to break it into pieces the size ofa bean, and then to boil it in water in an earthen vessel, togetherwith a quantity of new wheat, or barley, tied up in linen until itis purified; it is then pounded in a mortar for six days, beingwashed three times each day with cold water, and lastly with hotwater, adding to each pound of the foam an obolus of rock salt.3During the last day they digest it in a leaden vessel. Some personsboil it with white beans and barley water, and dry it in the sun;others with white wool and beans, and continue the process untilthe wool is no longer blackened by it. Then they add the rocksalt, the water being changed from time to time, and they dry itfor forty days in the warmest summer weather. They also boil itin a pig's stomach4 with water, afterwards rub it with natron, andthen pound it in mortars with salt as directed above. Othersagain there are who do not boil it, but rub it with salt, and wash itwith water. It is used for eye-salves, and it is employed byfemales, in the form of ointment, to remove pimples and spots ofthe skin; and to wash the hair. Its virtues are to dry, to soften,to cool, to temper, to purge, to fill up ulcers, and to removetumours. When made into plaisters with rue, myrtle, and vine­gar, it relieves erysipelas; and, when mixed with myrtle and wax,it removes chilblains. 9 The MSS. differ in the spelling of the words; they are probably derivedfrom AiOoc and Uvtvpa, and refer to the mechanical texture of the substance. 1 This reading I conceive to be sanctioned by the passage from Diosco-rides quoted below. 1 This operation is described by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 56, p. 662; "Kavaue airoriBtao. Coquendi argenti spuma hoc modo est: in "frustra juglandis nucis magnitudine earn dividito, in carbonibus ponito,"follibusque usque dum ignita condeat, ventilato. Auferto deinde inhse-"rentes illi sordes omnes, purgatamque reponito." 3 "Sal fossile." 4 " In ventre suillo;" this may perhaps refer not to the actual stomachof an animal, but to some vessel of the form of a stomach.