OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25 and their freedom: the neighbourhood of Carthage chap.submitted to his presence; and the more distant pro- XXXIV-vinces were successively subdued by the report of hisvictory. Tripoli was confirmed in her voluntary al­legiance; Sardinia and Corsica surrendered to anofficer, who carried, instead of a sword, the head ofthe valiant Zano; and the isles of Majorca, Minorca,and Yvica, consented to remain an humble appendageof the African kingdom. Caesarea, a royal city, whichin looser geography may be confounded with the mo­dern Algiers, was situate thirty days, march to thewestward of Carthage: by land, the road was in­fested by the Moors; but the sea was open, and theRomans were now masters of the sea. An activeand discreet tribune sailed as far as the Straits,where he occupied Septem or Ceuta, which rises op­posite to Gibraltar on the African coast; that re­mote place was afterwards adorned and fortified byJustinian; and he seems to have indulged the vainambition of extending his empire to the columns ofHercules. He received the messengers of victory atthe time when he was preparing to publish the pan­dects of the Roman law ; and the emperor celebratedthe divine goodness, and confessed, in silence, themerit of his successful general *. Impatient toabolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny of theVandals, he proceeded, without delay, to the fullestablishment of the Catholic church. Her juris­diction, wealth, and immunities, were restored andamplified with a liberal hand; the Arian worshipwas suppressed; the Donatist meetings were pro­scribed; and the synod of Carthage, by the voice oftwo hundred and seventeen bishops, applauded thejust measure of retaliation. On such an occasion, it • See the second and third preambles to the Digest, or Pandects, promulgatedA. D. 533, December 10. To the titles of Vandalicw and Africanut, Justinian,or rather Bclisarius, had acquired a just claim: Gothicut was premature, andFrattcicui false, and offensive to a great nation.