OCR Output 66 THE DECLINE AND FALL venna, if Belisarius would disclaim the authority of a master, accept the choreeof the Goths, and assume, as he had deserved, the kingdom of Italy- If the falselustre of a diadem could have tempted the loyalty of a faithful subject, his pru­dence must have foreseen the inconstancy of the barbarians, and his rational am­bition would prefer the safe and honourable station of a Roman general. Eventhe patience and seeming satisfaction with which he entertained a proposal of trea­son, might be susceptible of a malignant interpretation. But the lieutenant ofJustinian was conscious of his own rectitude: he entered into a dark and crookedpath, as it might lead to the voluntary submission of the Goths;, and his dexterouspolicy persuaded them that he was disposed to comply with their wishes, withoutengaging an oath or a promise for the performance of a treaty which he secretlyabhorred. The day of the surrender of Ravenna was stipulated by the Gothicambassadors: a fleet, laden with provisions, sailed as a welcome guest into thedeepest recess of the.harbour: the gates were opened to the fancied king of Italy;and Belisarius, without meeting an enemy, triumphantly marched through thestreets of an impregnable city.(l) The Romans were astonished by their suc­cess; the multitude of tall and robust barbarians were confounded by the image oftheir own patience; and the masculine females, spitting in the faces of their sonsand husbands, most bitterly reproached them for betraying their dominion andfreedom to these pigmies of the south, contemptible in their numbers, diminutivein their stature. Before the Goths could recover from their first surprise, and claimthe accomplishment of their doubtful hopes, the victor established his power inRavenna, beyond the danger of repentance and revolt. Vitiges, who perhaps hadattempted to escape, was honourably guarded in his palace;(2) the flower of theGothic youth was selected for the service of the emperor; the remainder of thepeople was dismissed to their peaceful habitations in the southern provinces; and acolony of Italians was invited to replenish the depopulated city. The submissionof the capital was imitated in the towns and villages of Italy, which had not beensubdued, or even visited, by the Romans; and the independent Goths, who re­mained in arms at Pavia and Verona, were ambitious only to become the subjectsof Belisarius. But his inflexible loyalty rejected, except as the substitute of Jus­tinian, their oaths of allegiance; and he was not offended by the reproach of theirdeputies, that he rather chose to be a slave than a king. After the second victory of Belisarius, envy again whispered, Justinian listened,and the hero was recalled. *' The remnant of the Gothic war was no longer wor­thy of his presence: agracioussovereign was impatient to reward his services, andto consult his wisdom: and he alone was capable of defending the east against theinnumerable armies of Persia." Belisarius understood the suspicion, accepted theexcuse, embarked at Ravenna his spoils and trophies; and proved, by his readyobedience, that such an abrupt removal from the government of Italy was not lessunjust than it might have been indiscreet. The emperor received, with honoura­ble courtesy, both Vitiges and his more noble consort: and as the king of the Gothsconformed to the Athanasian faith, he obtained, with a rich inheritance of landsin Asia, the rank of senator and patrician. (3) Every spectator admired, withoutperil, the strength and stature of the young barbarians: they adored the strengthand majesty of the throne, and promised to shed their blood in the service of theirbenefactor. Justinian deposited in the Byzantine palace the treasures of the Go­thic monarchy. A flattering senate was sometimes admitted to gaze on the mag­nificent spectacle; but it was enviously secluded from the public view; and theconqueror of Italy renounced, without a murmur, perhaps without a sigh, the well-earned honours of a second triumph. His glory was indeed exalted above all ex­ternal pomp; and the faint and hollow praises of the court were supplied, even ina servile age, by the respect and admiration of his country. Whenever he ap­peared in the streets and public places of Constantinople, Belisarius attracted andsatisfied the eyes of the people. His lofty stature and majestic countenance ful­fil Ravenna was taken, not in the 540, but in Ike latter end of 539; and Pagi (torn. ii. p. 560.) is rectified byMurafon (Annali d'llala, torn. \: p. 62..) who piorei from an original act on papyrus (Antiquit Italia; Medii#>i) torn. n.dissert. 32. p.999-1007. Maffei.lstoria Diplomat, p. 15J—160.,) that before the 3d of January,540, peace and free correspondence were restored between Ravenna and Faenza. (!) He was seized by John the Sanguinary, but an oath or sacrament was pledged for his safety in the Basi­lica Jnln (Hist. Miscell. lib. xvn.in Muraton, torn. i. p. 107.) Anastasiiis (in Vit. Pont. p. 40.) gives a dark butprobable account. Monlfaucon is quoted by Mascon (Hist, of the Germans, 12. 21.) for a volive shield repre­senting the captivity of Vitiges, and now in the collection of Signer I.andi at Rome. (3) Vitiges lived two years at Constantinople, and imperatoris in nifectu eonvictiu (or conjunctus) rebus ex-cesut'humanu. His widow, Matliruuenta, the wife and mother of the patricians, the elder and younger Ger-manuj, untied the su-eams of Alucian and Araali blood (Jomandes, c lx, p. 211, in Muratori, torn. i.)