OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Votion, which were consecrated to the honour of his celestial patrons. In the re­formation of the sixteenth century, freedom and knowledge had expanded all thefaculties of man; the thristof innovation superseded the reverence of antiquity,and the vigour of Europe could disdain those phantoms which terrified the sicklyand servile weakness of the Greeks. The scandal of an abstract heresy can be only proclaimed to the people by theblast of the ecclesiastical trumpet; but the most ignorant can perceive, the mosttorpid must feel, the profanation and downfall of their visible deities. The firsthostilities of Leo were directed against a lofty Christ on the vestibule, and abovethe gate, of the palace. A ladder had been planted for the assault, but it was fu­riously shaken by a crowd of zealots and women: they beheld with pious trans­port, the ministers of sacrilege tumbling from on high, and dashed against thepavement; and the honours of the ancient martyrs were prostituted to these cri­minals, who justly suffered for murder and rebellion. (1) '1 he execution of the im­perial edict was resisted by frequent tumults in Constantinople and the provinces:the person of Leo was endangered, his officers were massacred, and the popularenthusiasm was quelled by the strongest efforts of the civil and military power.Of the Archipelago, or holy see, the numerous islands were filled with imagesand monks: their votaries abjured, without scruple, the enemy of Christ, his mo­ther, and the saints: they armed a fleet of boats and galleys, displayed their con­secrated banners, and boldly steered for the harbour of Constantinople, to place onthe throne a new favourite of God and the people. They depended on the succourof a miracle; but their miracles were inefficient against the Greek fire; and, afterthe defeat and conflagration of their fleet, the naked islands were abandoned to ■the clemency or justice of the conqueror. The son of Leo, in the first year of hisTeign, had undertaken an expedition against the Saracens: during his absence, thecapital, the palace, and the purple, were occupied by his kinsman Artavasdes; theambitious champion of the orthodox faith. The worship of images was triumph­antly restored; the patriarch renounced his dissimulation, or dissembled his senti­ments; and the righteous claim of the usurper was acknowledged, both in the newand in ancient Rome. Constantine flew for refuge to his paternal mountains; buthe descended at the head of the bold and affectionate Isaurians; and his final vic­tory confounded the arms and predictions of the fanatics. His long reign was dis­tracted with clamour, sedition, conspiracy, and mutual hatred, and sanguinaryrevenge: the persecution of images was the motive, or pretence, of his adversa­ries; and if they missed a temporal diadem, they were rewarded by the Greekswith the crown of martyrdom. In every act of open and clandestine treason, theemperor felt the unforgiving enmity of the monks, the faithful slaves of the su­perstition to which they owed their riches and influence. They prayed, theypreached, they absolved, they inflamed, they conspired; the solitude of Palestinepoured forth a'torrent of invective; and the pen of St. John Damascenus,(2) thelast of the Greek fathers, devoted the tyrant's head, both in this world and thenext. (3) I am not at leisure to examine how far the monks provoked, nor howmuch they have exaggerated, their real or pretended suffering, nor how many losttheir lives or limbs, their eyes or their beards, by the cruelty of the emperor. Fromthe chastisement of individuals, he proceeded to the abolition of the order; and,as is was wealthy and useless, his resentment might be stimulated by avarice andjustified by patriotism. The formidable name and mission of the Dragon>(<f) hisvisiter general, excited the terror and abhorrence of the black nation: the religious•communities were dissolved, the buildings were converted into magazines, or bar- 0) The holy confessor Theophanes approve* the principle of their rebetion, kwj.uivci (p. 330.Gregory II.) in Epist. i. ad Imp. Leon. Concil. torn. viii. p. 661. 664. applauds tlie zeal of the Byzantine wo­men who killed the imperial officer!. (2) John, or Mansur, was a noble Christian of Damascus, who held a considerable office in the service of thecaliph. His zeal in the cause of images exposed him to the resentment and treachery of the Greek emperor;and on the suspicion of a treasonable correspondence, he was deprived cf his ritsht hand, which was miracu­lously restored by the Virgin. After this deliverance, he resigned his office, distributed hit wealth, and buriedhimself in the monastery of St. Sabas, between Jerusalem and die Dead Sea. The legend is famous, but hislearned editor, father Lcquien, has unluckily proved that St. John Damascenus was already a monk beforethe Iconoclast dispute (Oeera. torn. i. Vit. St. Joan. Damascen. p. 10—13. et Notas ad loc) (3) After sending Leo to the devil, he introduces hii heir—ro pixw aurov ysvMMusytsM tij; *»xix; tturcv KJufpo«flssa$sv **»Ai»ysvaswMf. (Opera Damascen. torn. i. p. 625.) If the authenticity of this pi *ce he suspicious, we are surethat in other works, no longer extant, Damascenus bestowed on Constantine the title of wov Muw^iS X.ieroajs- X»v,7rer»\»0i'. (toiTt. i. p. 306.) ' (4) In the narrative of this persecution from Theophanes and Cedrenus, Spanheim (p. 235—238.) is hapnrto compare the Dracoef Leo with the dragoons (Dra«w») of I.ouis XIV. and highly solaces himself with this-<>nrrovcrsial pun. t