OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 28; sophers of Egypt, is described above a century afterwards, as alreadyreduced to its present state of a dreary solitude "7S. III. The obscure rebellion of Trebellianus, who assumed the Rebellion ofpurple in Isauria, a petty province of Asia Minor, was attended withstrange and memorable consequences. The pageant of royalty wassoon destroyed by an officer of Gallienus; but his followers, de­spairing of mercy, resolved to shake off their allegiance, not only tothe emperor, but to the empire, and suddenly returned to the savagemanners, from which they had never perfectly been reclaimed.'Their craggy rocks, a branch of the wide extended Taurus, pro­tected their inaccessible retreat. The tillage of some fertilevallies ,:6, supplied them with the necessaries, and a habit of rapinewith the luxuries, of life. - In the heart of the Roman monarchy,the Haurians ever continued a nation of wild barbarians. Suc­ceeding princes, unable to reduce them to obedience, either by armsor policy, were compelled to acknowledge their weakness, by sur­rounding the hostile and independent spot, with a strong chain offortifications '77, which often proved insufficient to restrain the in­cursions of these domestic foes. The Isaurians, gradually extendingtheir territory to the sea coast, subdued the western and mountainous• part of Cilicia, formerly the nest of thole daring pyrates, againstwhom the republic was obliged to exert its utmost force, un­der the conduct of the great Pompey ,7S. Our habits of thinking so fondly connect the order of the Famine an* pcltilence. universe with the fate of man, that this gloomy period of historyhas been decorated with inundations, earthquakes, uncommon me­teors, preternatural darkness, and a crowd of prodigies fictitious orexaggerated '79. Eut a long and general famine was a calamity of amore serious kind. It was the inevitable consequence of rapine andoppression, which extirpated the produce of the present, and thehope of future, harvests. Famine is almost always followed by epi­demical diseases, the effect of scanty and unwholesome food. Other causes