OCR Output 418 NEMORENSIS LACUS. NEONTEICHOS. NEMORENSIS LACUS. [Aricia.] NEMOSSUS. [AUGUSTOHEMKXUM.J NEMUS DIANAE. [Aricia.] NKNTIDAVA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 774, b.] NEOCAKSAREIA (Nfofcoiffaf»*ia: Kth. Neowat-aafttvi). 1. A town in Pontus Poletnoniacus, which,on account of its late origin, is not mentioned byany writer before the time of Pliny, was situated onthe eastern bank of the river Lycus, 63 miles to theeast of Ama-ia. (Plin. vi. 3; Tab. Pcuting.) Itwas tin- capital of the district, and celebrated fur itssize and beauty, and is of historical importance onaccount of the ecclesiastical council held there inA. i». 314. We possess no information about thedate of its foundation; but the earliest coins we haveof it bear the image of the emj*ror Tiberius; whenceit is probable that Xeocaesareia was founded, or atleast received that name, in the reign of Tiberius,when Strabo. who does not notice it, had alreadycomposed Ins work. It must have rapidly risen inextent and prosperity, a* in the time of GrcgoriusThaumaturgua, who was a native of the place, it wasthe most considerable town in Pontus. (Greg.Neoeaes. VU. p. 577; Ainin. Marc, xxvii. 12;Hier.K.1. p. 702; Basil, Epi*t. 210; Acta Kutych.c 7; comp. Steph. B. s. V.; Solin. 45; PtoL v. 6.§ 10.) According to Paulas Diaconns (Hist Hueii. 18), the town was once destroyed by an earth­quake; and from Strphauns l\yz. it seems that atone time it was called AdrianopoJis. The town stillexists under a corrupt form of its ancient name,NicMW or Xu-*ara, at a distance of two days' journeynorth ot Tukat. As to the sujijxxscd identity ofCaliira and Xrocaesareia, see Cafuka. 2. A town of Ilithynia, of uncertain site. (Steph.];>.'■. Hierocl. p. 093; Concil. Const, vol. iii. p.668.) [L. S.] NKOCLAUDIOPOMS. [ANDitArA.] NKOCOMUM. [Comom.] NEON (Nfwv. Etk. Nftci-ios), an ancient townof Phocis, said to have been built after the Trojanwar (Strab. ix. p. 439), was situated at the foot ofMr. Tithorea. one of the peaks of Mt. Parnassus.Herodotus rela'es that, when the Persian army in­vaded I'hocis, many of the Phocians took refuse inTitlmn-a near Xemi (viii. '.VI). and that th>' lattercity was destroyed by the Persians (viii. 33). Itwas, however, afterwards rebuilt ; but was again de­stroyed, with the other Phucian towns, at the endof the Sacred War. (Paus. x. 3. § 2.) In itsneighbourhood, Philomelus, the Phoeian general, wasdefeated, and perished in the flight by throwinghimself down from a tofty rock. (Pans. x. 2. § 4.)Neon now disappear! from history, and in its placewe read of a town TlTHOBKA, which U described byPausanias (x. 32. § 8, seq.). This writer regardsTithorea as situated on the same site as Neon ; andrelates that Tithorea was the name anciently appliedto the irhok district, and that when the inhabitantsof the neighbouring villages were collected in thecity, the name of Tithorea was substituted for thatof Noon. This, however, is not in accordance withthe statement of Plutarch, according to whom Ti­thorea, in the time of the Mithridatic war, was afortress surrounded by precipitous rocks, where thePhocians took refuge from Xerxes. He furtherstates that it was not inch a city as the one ex­isting in bis day. (Plot StUL 15.) If the view ofPlutarch is correct, that the fortress, the site ofwhich was afterwards occupied by tho city Ti­thorea, was the place where the Phocians took rc- fuge from Xerxes, we may conclude tlul Til\nraand Neon were two different places. The city, which existed in the time of Hntneiand Pausanias, was a place of some ■oalMthoucb it had begun to decline for a gcneratii* t-r-fore the time of Pausanias. The latter writer no­tions, however, a theatre, the cr.ch«ure of iniwialagora, a temple of Athena, and the tomb of Aotirjiand Phocus. A river 8owed by Tilhora, tMCacbales (KaxtfATjj), to which the inhabitant* bato descend in order to obtain water. Id uSp terriWJof Tithorea, but at the distance of 70 btadia frwn tkcity, was a temple of Asclcpius, and al*o, it lhdistance of 4(1 stadia, a shrine of Isis. (Paut. J.88—13.) The name is written Ttfl. p«a in Ikf»dotus and Pausanias, TtBopala in StepUna* B,Ti0o>a in Plutarch, but Ti66ppa in iracm**The Ethnic name in Pausanias is Tt6op**is, inS»phanus TtOopatfvs, but in iiiscriptions TtQoptn. The mins of Tithorea are situated at l>!ita,ivillage at the NE. foot of Mt. Paniassus. Theis fixed by an inscription found at Ytlitzn. iu *Wthe name of Tithorea occurs. Two-thinis olmodern village stand within the ruined walUrfiancient city. A considerable portion of theand many of the towers. Mill remain. TWwas carefully fortified towards the W. and Ntt.was sufliciently protected towards the NE.by the j>recipitous banks of the Cachales.wards the S. by the steep sides of Mt PiThe walls are almost 9 leet broad. The Cackwwhich now bears the name of Kakarruma. «levil forre/ir, flows in a ravine below the villaf*,*tlius illustrates the statement of Pausanias, tlinhabitants drscetided to it in order to obtaiaBehind \ elitza, ascending the Cachalemcavern on the steep side of the rock, which,the last war of independence, received a preatlof fugitives. It is very spacious, is soppiid*excellent water, and is quite imprftgnabk. 1*1probably the place where the inhabitant! rfand the surrounding places took refuge in"'sian invasion, as the IMphians did in the Cofl^cave [see Vol. I. p. 768], more especiallyheight immediately above Veiitza is notsuch a purpose, A difficult mole path hpresent through the ravine of the Cachahathe heights of Parnassus to Delphi- In '<■><Pausanias there were two roods from Titlithe mountain to Delphi, one direct, thebut practicable for carriages. Pansania*Jstadia as the length of the shorter roadnumber cannot be correct, as Leakethe direct distance is hardly less than ISphioal miles. Moat modern writers have followed Piidentifying Tithorea and Neon ; but LTrichn,reasons which have been already stated. ■them to hare been different cities, and plaraat the Hellenic ruins on the Oephi.vsus, called JFira, distant 1) hour. or3.J English mflfla*!lit-n. (Leake, Xurthern Crrtfr, vol- ii. p 77f1Ulrichs, in Rheinischfs J/Wum, 184.**, p. 344.1 KEONTE1CUOS (Nwr ruXos). aatown not far from the coast of Mtsu,between the Hermns and the town ofwhich its distance was only 30 stadia. Ithave been founded by the Aeoliana,a& aon their first arrival in Asia. According la |(xiii. p. 621), the place was moreCyme; but according to a statement