OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. J57 to restore the glories and felicity of the age of the genuine An-tonines 7*« In the civil administration of Alexander, wisdom was enforced He attemptshy power, and the people, sensible of the public felicity, repaid army,their benefactor with their love and gratitude. There still remained agreater, a more necessary, but a more difficult enterprise; the refor­mation of the military order, whose interest and temper, confirmed bylong impunity, rendered them impatient of the restraints of dis­cipline, and careless of the blessings of public tranquillity. In theexecution of his design the emperor affected to display his love,and to conceal his fear, of the army. The most rigid œconomyin every other branch of the administration, supplied a fund of goldand silver for the ordinary pay and the extraordinary rewards ofthe troops. In their marches he relaxed the severe obligation ofcarrying seventeen days provision on their shoulders. Amplemagazines were formed along the public roads, and as soon as theyentered the enemy's country, a numerous train of mules and camekwaited on their haughty laziness. As Alexander despaired ofcorrecting the luxury of his soldiers, he attempted, at least, to di­rect it to objects of martial pomp and ornament, fine horses, fplenrdid armour, and shields enriched with silver and gold. He sharedwhatever fatigues he was obliged to impose, visited, in person, thesick and wounded, preserved an exact register of their servicesand his own gratitude, and expressed, on every occasion, thewarmest regard for a body of men, whose welfare, as he affectedto declare, was so closely connected with that of the state 7\ Bythe most gentle arts he laboured to inspire the fierce multitudewith a sense of duty, and to restore at least a faint image of thatdiscipline, to which the Romans owed their empire over so manyother nations> as warlike and more powerful than themselves. Buthis prudence was vain, his courage fatal, and the attempt towardsa reformation served only to inflame the ills it was meant to cure. The