OCR Output LIVY. ing in the camp, neglecting even to fix guards, whenPhilip unexpectedly came on them. His approachbeing announced by those who had fled out of thefields in a fright, threw Damocritus and the rest of theofficers into great confusion. It happened to be mid­day, and when most of the men, after a hearty meal,lay fast asleep. Their officers roused them, however,as fast as possible; ordered them to take arms; de­spatched some to recall those who were stragglingthrough the fields in search of plunder; and so violentwas their hurry, that many of the horsemen went outwithout their swords, and but few of them put on theircorslets. After marching out in this precipitate man­ner, (the whole horse and foot not amounting to sixhundred,) they met the king's cavalry, superior innumber, in spirit, and in arms. They were thereforerouted at the first charge; and, having scarcely at­tempted resistance, returned to the camp in shamefulflight. Several were slain; and some taken, havingbeen cut off from the main body of the runaways. 42. Philip, when his troops had advanced almost tothe rampart, ordered a retreat to be sounded, becauseboth men and horses were fatigued, not so much bythe action, as by the length of their march, and theextraordinary celerity with which they had made it.He therefore despatched the horsemen by troops, andthe companies of light infantry in turn, for water;after which they took refreshment. The rest he kepton guard, under arms, waiting for the main body ofthe infantry, which had marched with less expedition,on account of the weight of their armor. As soon asthese arrived, they also were ordered to fix their stan­dards, and, laying down their arms before them, totake food in haste; sending two, or at most three, outof each company to provide water. In the mean timethe cavalry and light infantry stood in order, andready, in case the enemy should make any motion.The jEtolians, as if resolved to defend their fortifica­tions, (the multitude which had been scattered aboutthe fields having, by this time, returned to the camp,)