OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 451 guilty and the suspected, served to irritate rather thansubdue the public discontent. No sooner did the grand­son of Nushirvan display his own and the Roman bannersbeyond the Tigris, than he was joined, each day, by theincreasing multitudes of the nobility and people; and ashe advanced, he received from every side the grateful of­ferings of the keys of his cities and the heads of his ene­mies. As soon as Modain was freed from the presenceof the usurper, the loyal inhabitants obeyed the firstsummons of Mebodes at the head of only two thousandhorse, and Chosroes accepted the sacred and precious or­naments of the palace as the pledge of their truth and apresage of his approaching success. After the junctionOf the imperial troops, which Bahram vainly struggled toprevent, the contest was decided by two battles on thebanks of the Zab, and the confines of Media. The Ro- a?d final Tietorj. mans, with the faithful subjects of Persia, amounted tosixty thousand, while the whole force of the usurper didnot exceed forty thousand men: the two generals signa­lized their valour and ability, but the victory was finallydetermined by the prevalence of numbers and discipline.With the remnant of a broken army, Bahram fled to­wards the eastern provinces of the Oxus: the enmity of Dea"> «fPersia reconciled him to the Turks; but his days wereshortened by poison, perhaps the most incurable of poi­sons; the stings of remorse and despair, and the bitterremembrance of lost glory. Yet the modern Persiansstill commemorate the exploits of Bahram; and someexcellent laws have prolonged the duration of his trou­bled and transitory reign. The restoration of Chosroes was celebrated with feasts Restora-and executions ; and the music of the royal banquet was p","™often disturbed by the groans of dying or mutilated cri- ^h ^'"^minals. A general pardon might have diffused comfort —603.and tranquillity through a country which had been shakenby the the late revolutions; yet, before the sanguinarytemper of Chosroes is blamed, we should learn whether