OCR Output 896 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap, present numerals, the Arabic or Indian ciphers, asXL- they are commonly styled, a regulation of office haspromoted the most important discoveries of arith­metic, algebra, and the mathematical sciences*. In the close of his life, the emperor ConstantinePogonatus was anxious only to establish the right ofprimogeniture. The hair of his two sons, Justinianand Heraclius, was offered on the shrine of St. Peter,as a symbol of their spiritual adoption by the pope;but the elder was alone exalted to the rank of Au­gustus, and the assurance of the empire.Justinian ii. After the decease of his father, the inheritance ofSeptember! the Roman world devolved to Justinian II.; and thename of a triumphant lawgiver was dishonoured bythe vices of a boy, who imitated his namesake onlyin the expensive luxury of building. His passionswere strong, his understanding was feeble; and hewas intoxicated with a foolish pride, that his birthhad given him the command of millions, of whom thesmallest community would not have chosen him fortheir local magistrate. His favourite ministers weretwo beings the least susceptible of human sympathy;to the one he abandoned the palace, to the other thefinances: the former corrected the emperor,s motherwith a scourge; the latter suspended the insolventtributaries, with their heads downwards, over a slowand smoky fire. Since the days of Commodus andCaracalla, the cruelty of the Roman princes had mostcommonly been the effect of their fear; but Justinian,who possessed some vigour of character, enjoyed thesufferings, and braved the revenge, of his subjectsabout ten years, till the measure was full, of his * According to a new, though probable notion, maintained by M. dc Villoisoo(Anecdota Graca, tom. ii. p. 152—157), our ciphers are not of Indian or Ara­bic invention. They were used by the Greek and Latin arithmeticians long be­fore the age of Bccthius. After the extinction of science in the West, they wereadopted by the Arabic versions from the original MSS. and restored to the Latinsabout the eleventh century.