OCR Output 500 [book xrv. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. morning to Jerusalem. Hereupon Aristobu-lus repented of what he was doing;* andcame to Pompey, and promised to give himmoney, and received him into Jerusalem,and desired that he would leave off the war,and do what he pleased peaceably. So Pom­pey, upon his intreaty, forgave him; and sentGabinius, and soldiers with him, to receivethe money, and the city. Yet was no partof this performed: but Gabinius came back;being both excluded out of the city, and re­ceiving none of the money promised: becauseAristobulus's soldiers would not permit theagreements to be executed. At this Pompeywas very angry, and put Aristobulus intoprison; and came himself to the city: whichwas strong on every side, excepting thenorth, which was not so well fortified. Forthere was fa broad deep ditch that encom­passed the city; and included within it thetemple; which was itself encompassed aboutwith a very strong stone wall. Now there was a sedition of the men thatwere within the city, who did not agree whatwas to be done in their present circumstances.Some thought it best to deliver up the city toPompey: but Aristobulus's party exhortedthem to shut the gates: because he was keptin prison. Now these prevented the others;and seized upon the temple; and cut off thebridge which reached from it to the city;and prepared themselves to sustain a siege.But the others admitted Pompey's army, anddelivered up both the city, and the king'spalace to him. So Pompey sent his lieutenantPiso with an army, and placed garrisons bothin the city, and in the palace, to securethem; and fortified the house that joined tothe temple; and all those which were moredistant, and without it. And in the first placehe offered terms of accommodation to thosewithin: but when they would not complywith what was desired, he encompassed all the places thereabout with a wall; Hyrcanusgladly assisting him on all occasions. ButPompey pitched his camp within the wall, onthe north part of the temple, where it wasmost practicable. But even on that sidethere were great towers, and a ditch had beendug, and a deep valley begirt it round about.For on the parts towards the city were pre­cipices; and the bridge on what Pompeyhad gotten in was broken down: however abank was raised day by day, with a greatdeal of labour; while the Romans cut downmaterials for it from the places round about.And when this bank was sufficiently raised,and the ditch filled up, though but poorly,by reason of its immense depth, he broughthis mechanical engines, and battering ramsfrom Tyre: and placing them on the bank,he battered the temple, with the stones thatwere thrown against it. And had it not beenour practice from the day of our forefathers,to rest on the seventh days, this bank couldnever have been completed; by reason ofthe opposition the Jews would have made.For though our law gives us leave then todefend ourselves against those that begin tofight with us, and assault us; yet does it notpermit us to meddle with our enemies, whilethey do any thing else. When the Romans understood this matter,on those days which we call sabbaths, theythrew nothing on the Jews, nor came to anybattle with them; but raised up their earthenbanks, and brought their engines into suchforwardness, that they might do executionthe next day. And any one may hence learn,how very great piety we exercise towardGod, and the observance of his laws: sincethe priests were not at all hindered fromtheir sacred ministrations by their fear duringthis siege; but did still, twice a day, in themorning, and about the ninth hour, offer theirsacrifices on the altars. Nor did they omit * The fourth book of the Maccabees, (chap, xxxvi.)says nothing of this submission of Aristobulus to the Ro­man general, but tells us, that Pompey marched directlyagainst Jerusalem, where observing the situation of theplace, the strength of its walls, tower, &c. he resolved'to try to gain Aristobulus by fair means; that he invitedhim to come into his camp, and promised him all thesafety that he could desire; that accordingly he came tohim, and engaged to deliver up all the treasure of thetemple, if he would but declare for him; but that theor.esis having refused to ratify the king's promise, this made the general lay siege to the temple. UniversalHistory, lib. 2, c. 1 r. B. t The particular depth and breadth of this ditch;whence the stones for the wall about the temple -wereprobably taken, are omitted in our copies of Josephus;but set down by Strabo, XIV. page 763. from whom we-learn, that this ditch is 60 feet deep, and 250 feet broad..However, its depth is said by Josephus to be immense:which exactly agrees with Strabo's description: and thenumbers in Strabo are a strong confirmation of the truth,of Josephus's description also.