OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 199 CHAP. XXXVII. Idea of the Roman Jurisprudence.—The Laws of the Kings.—The Twelve Tables of the Decemvirs. —The Laws ofthe People.—The Decrees of the Senate.—The Edicts ofthe Magistrates and Emperors. — AutJiority of the Ci­vilians.—Code, Pandects, Novels, and Institutes of Jus­tinian :—I. Rights of Persons.—II. Rights of Things.—III. Private Injuries and Actions.—IV. Crimes andPunishments. The vain titles of the victories of Justinian are chap.crumbled into dust: but the name of the legislator XXXVILis inscribed on a fair and everlasting monument. The civil orUnder his reign, and by his care, the civil jurispru- Roman law-dence was digested in the immortal works of theCode, the Pandects, and the Institutes *: thepublic reason of the Romans has been silently orstudiously transfused into the domestic institutionsof Europe t, and the laws of Justinian still commandthe respect or obedience of independent nations.Wise or fortunate is the prince who connects hisown reputation with the honour and interest of aperpetual order of men. The defence of theirfounder is the first cause, which in every age hasexercised the zeal and industry of the civilians. * The civilians of the darker ages have established an absurd and incompre­hensible mode of quotation, which is supported by authority and custom. Intheir references to the Code, the Pandects, and the Institutes, they mention thenumber, not of the book, but only of the law; and content themselves with re^citing the first words of the title to which it belongs; and of these titles there aremore than a thousand. Ludewig (Vit . Justiniani, p. 268) wishes to shake offthis pedantic yoke; and I have dared to adopt the simple and rational method ofnumbering the book, the title, and the law. •f Germany, Bohemia, Hungary, Poland, and Scotland, have received them ascommon law or reason; in France, Italy, &c. they possess a direct or indirectinfluence; and they were respected in England, from Stephen to Edward I. ournational Justinian (Duck, de Usit et Auctoritate Juris Civilis, 1. ii. c. 1. 8—15.Heineccius, Hist. Juris Germanici, c. 3,4- No. 55—124. and the legal historiansof each country). o 4