OCR Output 358 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. things farther were to be atchieved on a day prefixed, thatthe Boeotians might be disabled from rushing to the rescue ofDelium with all their force, by the necessity of staying athome to defend their respective habitations. Should the at­tempt succeed, and Delium once be fortified, they easily pre­sumed that, though the change of the Boeotian governmentmight not suddenly be effected, yet, when those towns werein their hands, when their devastations were extended allover the country, and places of safe retreat lay near at handfor tneir parties, things could not longer remain in their for­mer posture ; but in process of time, when the Athenians ap­peared in support of the revolters, and the Boeotians could notunite in a body to oppose them, the designed revolution mustnecessarily take place. This was the nature of the scheme atpresent in agitation. Hippocrates, having the whole force of Athens under hiscommand, was ready at the proper time to march into Bceo-tia. But he had dispatched Demosthenes beforehand toNaupactus with forty ships, that after he had collected a suf­ficient force in those parts from the Acarnanians and theirother confederates, he should appear with his fleet beforeSiphae, which was then to be betrayed to him. A day alsowas fixed upon between them, in which both of them were atonce to execute the parts assigned them. Demosthenes, being arrived at Naupactus, found the Oeni-adae already compelled by the united Acarnanians into an as­sociation with the confederates of Athens. He marched away,therefore, at the head of the whole confederacy in those parts,and invaded first Salynthius and the Agraeans ; and havingcarried some other points, got all in readiness to shew himselfbefore Siphae at the time appointed. About the same time this summer, Brasidas, at the headof seventeen hundred heavy-armed, began his march to­wards Thrace. When he was come up to Heraclea in Tra-chis, he dispatched a messenger beforehand to his corres­pondents in Pharsalus, to beg a safe conduct for himself