OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. 27 i the captains of hundreds, and the rulers, and all the people,took Jehoash, out of the temple into the king's palace, and whenhe had set him into the king's throne, the people shouted forjoy, and betook themselves to feasting, and kept a festival formany days; but the city was quiet upon the death of Athaliah.Now Jehoash was seven years old when he took the kingdom:His mother's name was Zibiah, of the city Beersheba. And allthe time that Jehoiada lived, Jehoash was careful that the lawsshould be kept, and very zealous in the worship of God; andwhen he was of age, he married two wives, who were given tohim by the high priest, by whom were born to him both sonsand daughters. And thus much shall suffice to have related con­cerning king Jehoash, how he escaped the treachery of Athaliah,and how he received the kingdom. CHAP. VIII. Haxael makes an expedition against the people of Israel, and theinhabitants of Jerusalem. Jehu dies, and Jehoahaz succeedsin the government. Jehoash the king of Jerusalem, atjirstis careful about the worship of God, but afterwards becomesimpious, and commands Zachariah to be stoned. When Jehoash[king ofjudah] was dead, Amaziah succeeds him in the king­dom. $ 1. .Now Hazael, king of Syria, fought against the Israel­ites and their king Jehu, and spoiled the eastern parts of thecountry beyond Jordan, which belonged to the Reubenites andGadites, and to [the half tribe of] Manassites; as also Gileadand Bashan, burning and spoiling, and offering violence to allthat he laid his hands on; and this without impeachment fromJehu, who made no haste to defend the country when it wasunder this distress: nay, he was become a contemner of reli­gion, and a despiser of holiness, and of the laws; and diedwhen he had reigned over the Israelites twenty-seven years. Hewas buried in Samaria : and left Jehoahaz his son his successorin the government. 2. Now Jehoash, king of Jerusalem, had an inclination to re­pair the temple of God; so he called Jehoiada, and bid him sendthe Levites and priests through all the country, to require halfa shekel of silver for every head, towards the rebuilding and re­pairing of the temple, which was brought to decay by Jehoram,and Athaliah, and her sons. But the high priest did not do this,as concluding that no one would willingly pay the money; buton the twenty-third year of Jehoash's reign, when the king sentforhim and the Levites, and complained that they had not obeyedwhat he enjoined them, and still commanded them to take care VOL. iI. u 15