OCR Output CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ing, and again crossing each other, inclosed within theirsolid and lofty arches a fortified space,5 where Vitigesestablished a camp of seven thousand Goths to interceptthe convoys of Sicily and Campania. The granaries ofRome were insensibly exhausted, the adjacent countryhad been wasted with fire and sword: such scanty sup­plies as might yet be obtained by hasty excursions, werethe reward of valour, and the purchase of wealth: theforage of the horses, and the bread of the soldiers, neverfailed; but in the last months of the siege, the peoplewere exposed to the miseries of scarcity, unwholesomefood,' and contagious disorders. Belisarius saw andpitied their sufferings; but he had foreseen, and hewatched the decay of their loyalty, and the progress oftheir discontent. Adversity had awakened the Romansfrom the dreams of grandeur and freedom, and taughtthem the humiliating lesson, that it was of small momentto their real happiness, whether the name of their mas­ter was derived from the Gothic or the Latin language.The lieutenant of Justinian listened to their just com­plaints, but he rejected with disdain the idea of flight orcapitulation; repressed their clamorous impatience forbattle; amused them with the prospect of sure andspeedy relief; and secured himself and the city from theeffects of their despair or treachery. Twice in eachmonth he changed the station of the officers to whomthe custody of the gates was committed: the variousprecautions, of patroles, watchwords, lights, and music,were repeatedly employed to discover whatever passed onthe ramparts; out-guards were posted beyond the ditch,and the trusty vigilance of dogs supplied the moredoubt- « Prooopius (Goth. lib. 2. c. 3.) has forgot to name these aqueducts : nor can such adouble intersection, at such a distance from Rome, be clearly ascertained from thewritings of Froutinus Fabretti and Ksohinard, de Aquis and de Agro Romano, orfrom the local maps of Lometi and Cingolani. Seven or eight miles from the city,(fifty stadia) on the road to Alhano, between the Latin and Appian ways, I discernthe remains of an aqueduct (prohably the Septimian), a series (six hundred and thir­ty paces) of arches twenty-five feethigh. (u+bXm ia-ayav.)' i They made sausages, iXXttra;, of mule's flesh: unwholesome, if the animal* haddied of the plague. Otherwise the famous Bologna sansages are said to be made of■Mi flesh. (Voyages de Lahat, tom. 2. p. 218.)