OCR Output 452 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book V. pressions jestingly borrowed from the Greek. Terenceknows nothing of such caprices; his dialogue moves on withthe purest symmetry, and its points are elegant epigrammaticand sententious turns. The comedy of Terence is not to becalled an improvement, as compared with that of Plautus,either in a poetical or in a moral point of view. Originalitycannot be affirmed of either, but, if possible, still less ofTerence; and the dubious praise of more correct copying isat least outweighed by the circumstance that, while theyounger poet reproduced the agreeableness, he knew not howto reproduce the merriment of Menander, so that the come­dies of Plautus imitated from Menander, such as the Stichus,the Cistellaria, the Bacchides, probably preserve far more ofthe flowing charm of the original than the comedies of the"dimidiatus Menander." And, while the aesthetic critic can­not recognize an improvement in the transition from thecoarse to the dull, as little can the moralist in the transitionfrom the obscenity and indifference of Plautus to the accom­modation-morality of Terence. But in point of language animprovement certainly took place. Elegance of language wasthe pride of the poet, and it was owing above all to its in­imitable charm that the most refined judges of art in after-times, such as Cicero, Caesar, and Quinctiliau, assigned thepalm to him among all the Roman poets of the repub­lican age. In so far it is perhaps justifiable to date a newera in Roman literature—the real essence of which lay not inthe development of Latin poetry, but in the development ofthe Latin language—from the comedies of Terence as thefirst artistically pure imitation of Hellenic works of art.The modern comedy made its way amidst the most deter­mined literary warfare. The Plautine style of composing hadtaken root among the Roman bourgeoisie; the comedies ofTerence encountered the liveliest opposition from the public,which found their " insipid language," their " feeble style,"intolerable. The apparently somewhat sensitive poet repliedin his prologues—which properly were not intended for anysuch purpose—with counter-criticisms full of defensive andoffensive polemics; and appealed from the multitude, whichhad twice run off from his Hecyra to witness a band ofgladiators and rope-dancers, to the cultivated circles of thegenteel world. He declared that he only aspired to the ap­proval of the "good;" in which doubtless there was not want­ing a hint, that it was not at all seemly to undervalue works