OCR Output 114 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. TBook IV. the whole senatorial and non-senatorial noble society ofRome. But not long before the time of Gaius Gracchusthe law had declared a seat in the senate incompatible withservice in the cavalry (P. 73), and the senators were thusmarked off from those capable of serving as equites; andaccordingly the equestrian order, taken as a whole, might beregarded as representing the aristocracy of speculators incontradistinction to the senate. Nevertheless, those membersof senatorial families who had not entered the senate, moreespecially the younger members, did not cease to serve asequites and consequently to bear the name; and, in fact, theburgess-cavalry properly so called—that is, the eighteenequestrian centuries—in consequence of being made up bythe censors continued to be chiefly filled from the youngsenatorial aristocracy (ii. 319). This order of the equites—that is to say substantially thewealthy merchants—in various ways came roughly intocontact with the governing senate. There was a naturalantipathy between the noble aristocrats and the men towhom money had given rank. The ruling lords, especiallythe better class of them, stood just as much aloof fromspeculations, as the men of material interests were in­different to political questions and coterie-feuds. The twoclasses had already frequently come into sharp collision,particularly in the provinces ; for, though in general the pro­vincials had far more reason than the Roman capitalists hadto complain of the partiality of the Roman magistrates, yetthe ruling lords of the senate did not condescend to counte­nance the greedinesses and injustices of the moneyed menac the expense of the subjects so thoroughly and absolutelyas was desired. In spite of their agreement in opposing acommon foe such as was Tiberius Gracchus, there yawneda deep gulf between the noble and the moneyed aristocracy;and Gaius, more adroit than his brother, enlarged it tillthe alliance was broken up and the mercantile class rangedInsignia of itself on his side. That the external privileges, throughthe equites. which afterwards the men of equestrian census were distin­guished from the rest of the multitude—the golden finger-ring instead of the ordinary ring of iron or copper, and theseparate and better place at the burgess-festivals—were firstconferred on the equites by Gaius Gracchus, is not certain,but is not improbable. For they emerged at any rate aboutthis period, and, as the extension of these hitherto mainly