OCR Output boOK V. 419 2S. Conditae .... fecisse. Gave to thl city which they builtthe name Jerusalem, from their own name. Al. conditam urbem... nomins suo.—Hierosolymam. Al. Hierosolyma, acc. pl. Bothforms are used. See Lexicon. But Hierosolymam, though less com­mon in T., stands here in nearly all the MSS. The plural form ofthis name, as of the names of Athens, Thebes, and many otherplaces, seems to have originated in the incorporation of two or moreadjacent towns or fortresses (in this case, Mount Moriah and MountZion) into one. For the true etymology of Hierosolyma, cf. Kitto'sBib. Cyclopaedia, and Rup. ad loc. It cannot but strike us, familiar as we are with the origin and his.tory of the Jews, as very singular that Tacitus should have contentedhimself with throwing together such a crude jumble cf contradictoryfables, instead of going to the original records, or consulting Jewishauthorities, in all of which he would have found the same consistentand true story. But it is important for us to bear in mind, in readingthis or any other Roman history of the Jews, that they were a so-cluded and peculiar people ; that their neighbors consequently knewlittle of them, and were prejudiced against them ; and that at Romoespecially, they were hated by the great for their insubordination, anddespised by the learned for their superstition, bigotry and intolerance.It should also be remembered, that the same prejudice extended to theearly Christians, who were regarded as a Jewish sect, and are oftenspoken of by Roman writers in the same terms of hatred and con­tempt as the Jews. See the famous passage in the Annals (15, 44),where T. calls Christianity an exitiabilis superstitio. Yet on boththese subjects we find traces of the truth in nearly all our author'serrors, and those errors need not destroy our confidence in his veracityas a historian, on subjects about which he was bettor informed andless prejudiced. Similar and even worse absurdities are found in theother Latin authors respecting the Jews, e. g. Justin, 3C, 2, Juv.14, 96. seq., Martial, Diodorus, &c. Cf. Preliminary Remarks, p.236. Ch. III.—30. Orta tabe. Justin (36, 2) speaks of this dis­ease and calls it scabiem et vitiliginem, i. e. the leprosy. T. as usualomits the common technical name. Cf. Essay, p. 20. We have heremanifestly a corruption, and at the same time an indirect confirmationof the history of the plagues that attended the exodus of the Israelitesfrom Egypt. Ex. 9. 31. Q,uae foedaret. For the subj., cf. Gr. 2G4; Z. 558. —Hammonis oraculo. The original oracle of Ammon was in Lybia(where his worship originated), twelve days' journey west of Memphis.Cf. Plin. 5, 9. But the oracle here referred to was probably in Thebes,which was a city sacred to Ammon, and henco called in the scriptures,No-Ammou, the abode of Ammon. Cf. Nahum, 3, 8, in the Hebrew.