OCR Output OLYMPIA. 477 OLYMPIA. 7) > TiucAon, a building belonging to the«HptrinttmiCTts of the sacrifices (Paus. 8). lu poutna is uncertain.ir llywlamiun, named frum Hi|>pc«l.imri.i.benVd here, was within the Altis near thefit. (Pais. vi. 20. § 7.)Til temple of Ike Olympian EUeithyiaJ i: ,'ir- to have stood on the neck ofCnam. (Psas. it 20. § 2.) Tmpltof the Olympian Aphrodite wasrfKleilhyia. (Paus. vi. 20. § 6.)Tkmri or Treasuries, ten in number,bm at Delphi, built by different cities,of their dedicator)' offerings. Theybr Paasanias as standing to the northat the foot of Mount Cronius, uponof the stone pore* (Paus. vi. 19. § 1).aloe* of Zeus, erected from the pro-levied open athletae. who had violatedof the games. They stood upon aat the foot of Mount Cronius, to the• fenm going from the Metroum to theI (Pwu. v. 21. § 2.) Tie Studio of rheidias, which was outsidefc,«td near the Pom pic entrance. (Paus. v.| TyUanlanm, bnilt by Leonidas, a native,tat Stabo of Pheidiaa. Here the Romanxn lodged in the time of Pausanias TW CjnmsnaK, also outside the Altis, andfeMrtliero entrance into it. (Pans. vi. 21.r the Gymnasium was (19) the Pataettra.11. The Stadium and the HippodromeNsf the most important sites at Olympia, asf&rjbmed the place of exhibition for allb*pc contests. Their position cannot bemi mi certainty; but as they appear tomml aeontinoed area from the circular endWhan to the further extremity of the Hip-% ttt position assigned to them by Leake isstfnoable. He places the circular end of at the foot of the heights to the NE.of the summit of Mount Cronius, and the furtherend of the Hippodrome on the bank of theAlpheius. The Stadium is described by Pausanias as amound of earth, upon which there was a seat for theHellanodicae, and over against it an altar of marble,on which sat the priestess of Demeter Chamvne tobehold the games. There were two entrances intothe Stadium, the Pompic and the Secret. Thelatter, through which the Hellanodicae and the ago-nistae entered, was near the Zanes; the former pro­bably entered the area in front of the rectilinearextremity of the Stadium. (Paus. vi. 20. § 8, seq.)In proceeding towards the Hippodrome from thatpart of the Stadium where the Hellanodicae sat wasthe Hippaphesi* or starting place of the horses (i\atptoit ivv iTrwuv). In form it resembled the prowof a ship, the embolus or beak being turned towardsthe racecourse. Its widest part adjoined the stoaof Agnaptus. At the end of the embolus was abrazen dolphin standing upon a pillar. Either sideof the Hippaphesis was more than 400 feet inlength, and contained apartments, which those whowere going to contend in the horse-races obtained bylot. Before the horses a cord was extended as abarrier. An altar was erected in the middle of theprow, on which was an eagle with outstretchedwings. The superintendent of the race elevated thiseagle by means of machinery, so as to be seen by allthe spectators, and at the same time the dolphinfell to the ground. Thereupon the first barriers oneither side, near the stoa of Agnaptus, were removed,and then the other barriers were withdrawn in likemanner in succession, until all the horses were inline at the embolus. One side of the Hippodrome was longer than theother, and was formed by a mound of earth. Therewas a passage through this side leading out of theHippodrome; and near the passage was a kind ofcircular altar, called Taraxippus (Topa^iiriro!), orthe terrifier of horses, because the horses were fre­quently seized with terror in passing it, so that cha- PLAIN OK OLYMPIA. 3. Village Miraka.