OCR Output -DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XH. period, the circumference of Naples* measured only twothousand three hundred and sixty-three paces :y the for­tifications were defended by precipices or the sea: whenthe aqueducts were intercepted, a supply of water mightbe drawn from wells and fountains; and the stock ofprovisions was sufficient to consume the patience of thebesiegers. At the end of twenty days, that of Belisariuswas almost exhausted, and he had reconciled himself tothe disgrace of abandoning the siege, that he mightmarch, before the winter season, against Rome and theGothic king. But his anxiety was relieved by the boldcuriosity of an Isaurian, who explored the dry channel ofan aqueduct, and secretly reported, that a passage mightbe perforated to introduce a file of armed soldiers intothe heart of the city. When the work had been silentlyexecuted, the humane general risked the discovery ofhis secret, by a last and fruitless admonition of the im­pending danger. In the darkness of the night, fourhundred Romans entered the aqueduct, raised them­selves by a rope, which they fastened to an olive tree,into the house or garden of a solitary matron, soundedtheir trumpets, surprised the sentinels, and gave ad­mittance to their companions, who, on all sides, scaledthe walls, and burst open the gates of the city. Everycrime which is punished by social justice, was practisedas the rights of war; the Huns were distinguished bycruelty and sacrilege, and Belisarius alone appeared inthe streets and churches of Naples, to moderate the ca­lamities which he predicted. "The gold and silver,"he repeatedly exclaimed, "are the just rewards of yourvalour. But spare the inhabitants, they are Christians,they are suppliants, they are now your fellow-subjects. x This measure was taken by Roger I. after the conquest of Naples (A. 1) 1133),which he made the oapital of his new kingdom. (Giannone/lstoria Civile, tom.~2^p. 169.) That city, the third in Christian Europe, is now at least twelve miles incircumference, (JuI.Caesar. Capaccii Hist. Neopol. lib. 1. p. 47.) and contains moreinhahitants (three hundred and fifty thousand) in a given space, than any other spotin the known world. v Not geometrical, but common, paces or steps, of twenty-two French inches:(d'Anville, Mesurcs Itineraires, p. 7, 8.) the two thousand three hundred and sixty-thiee do not make an English mile.