OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 19 caution along the coast, till they reached the Her- chap.msean promontory, and obtained the first intelligence XX1V-of the victory of Belisarius. Faithful to his in­structions, they would have cast anchor about twentymiles from Carthage, if the more skilful seamen hadnot represented the perils of the shore, and the signsof an impending tempest. Still ignorant of the revo­lution, they declined, however, the rash attempt offorcing the chain of the port; and the adjacentharbour and suburb of Mandracium were insultedonly by the rapine of a private officer who disobeyedand deserted his leaders. But the Imperial fleet,advancing with a fair wind, steered through thenarrow entrance of the Goletta, and occupied in thedeep and capacious lake of Tunis a secure stationabout five miles from the capital *. No sooner wasBelisarius informed of their arrival, than he de­spatched orders that the greatest part of the marinersshould be immediately landed to join the triumph,and to swell the apparent numbers of the Romans.Before he allowed them to enter the gates of Car­thage, he exhorted them, in a discourse worthy ofhimself and the occasion, not to disgrace the gloryof their arms; and to remember that the Vandalshad been the tyrants, but that they were the de­liverers of the Africans, who must now be respectedas the voluntary and affectionate subjects of theircommon sovereign. The Romans marched throughthe streets in close ranks, prepared for battle if anenemy had appeared; the strict order maintainedby the general imprinted on their minds the duty of • The neighbourhood of Carthage, the sea, the land, and the rivers, arcchanged almost as much as the works of man. The isthmus, or neck, of thecity is now confounded with the continent; the harbour is a dry plain; and thelake, or stagnum, no more than a morass, with six or seven feet water in themid-channel. See d'Anville (Geographie Ancienne, tom. iii. p. 82.), Shaw (Travels, p. 77 84.), Marmol (Description de l'Afrique, tom. ii. p. 465.), and Thuanus (Iviii. 12. tom. iii. p. 334.) C 2