OCR Output 8 [A.U.C. 767. THE ANNALS the same report that announced the death of Augustus,proclaimed Tiberius in possession of the supremepower. VI. The first exploit of the new reign was the mur­der of Agrippa Posthumus. A centurion of undauntedresolution attacked him by surprise. Though unpro­vided with arms, the young man did not easily yield :he fell after a stout resistance. Of this event Tibe­rius made no report to the senate, content with hint­ing a pretended order of his deceased father, by whichthe centurion, charged with the custody of Agrippa'sperson, was commanded to despatch him, as soon as' the emperor breathed his last. Augustus, it is true,had arraigned the character and conduct of the youngman in terms of asperity; he had even banished himby a decree of the senate: but it is equally true, thathe never imbrued his hands in the blood of his kin­dred ; nor is it probable that, for the security of a step­son, he would have doomed to death a descendantfrom himself. The stronger presumption is, that Ti­berius and Livia, the former impelled by his dread ofa rival, and the latter, by the malice of a step-mother^were accomplices in the murder. When the assassin,in the military phrase, reported to Tiberius, that whathe had given in orders was duly executed, the replyof the new emperor was, that he had given no suchorders, and for what was done the centurion must an­swer before the senate. A disavowal so very extraordinary gave the alarmto Sallustius Crispus, a minister then in favour, andtrusted with the secrets of the court. The warrantfor the execution had passed through his hands. Hedreaded a public examination; well aware that, whe­ther he disclosed the truth, or attempted to disguiseit, his own danger would, in either case, be preciselythe same. To ward off the blow, he remonstrated toLivia, that the secret counsels of the imperial family,the conduct of ministers, and the actions of the cen­turions, ought to be veiled from the public eye. Byreferring too much to the senate, the prince wouldweaken his own authority: that men should be ac­