OCR Output an. 893.] 329 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ram, and exhorted him to take care of thatplace; for that therein were some Syrianslying in ambush to kill him. So the kingdid as the prophet exhorted him, and avoid­ed going a hunting. And when Benhadadmissed of the success of his lying in ambush,he was angry with his own servants; as ifthey had betrayed his concealment to Jo-ram, and he sent for them, and said, theywere the betrayers of his secret counsels;and he threatened that he would put themto death: since such their practice was evi­dent, because he had intrusted this secretto none but them; and yet it was madeknown to his enemy. But one that was E resent said, that he should not mistakeimself, nor suspect that they had discoveredto his enemy his sending men to kill him;but that he ought to know that it wasElisha the prophet who discovered all tohim, and laid open all his counsels. So hegave order that they should send some tolearn in what city Elisha dwelt. Accordinglythose that were sent brought word that hewas in Dothan. Wherefore Benhadad sentto that city a great army with horses andchariots, to take Elisha. So they encom­passed the city round about by night, andkept him therein confined. But when theprophet's servant in the morning perceivedthis, and that his enemies sought to takeElisha, he came running, and crying after adisordered manner to him, and told him of it.But he encouraged him, and bade him not beafraid, but to despise the enemy, and trust inthe assistance of God; and he besought Godto manifest to his servant his power and pre­sence, so far as was possible, in order to theinspiring him with hope and courage. Ac­cordingly God heard the prayer of the pro­phet, and made the servant see a multitudeof chariots and horses encompassing Elisha,till he laid aside his fear, and his courage re­vived, at the sight of what he supposed wascome to their assistance. After this Elishadid farther intreat God, that he would dimthe eyes of their enemies, and*cast a mistbefore them, whereby they might not discern him. When this was done he went into themidst of his enemies, and asked them, who itwas that they came to seek? And when theyreplied, the prophet Elisha, he promised hewould deliver him to them, if they wouldfollow him to the city where he was. Sothese men were so darkened by God in theirsight and in their mind, that they followedhim very diligently. And when Elisha hadbrought them to Samaria, he ordered Joramthe king to shut the gates, and to place hisown army round about them; and prayed toGod to clear the eyes of these their enemies*and take the mist from before them. Ac­cordingly when they were freed from (heobscurity they had been in, they saw them­selves in the midst of their enemies. Andas the Syrians were strangely amazed anddistressed, as was but reasonable, at an ac­tion so divine and surprising, and as kingJoram asked the prophet, if he would givehim leave to shoot at them: Elisha forbadethem so to do; and said, that it was just tokill those that were taken in battle; butthat these men had done no harm; but,without knowing it, were come thither bythe divine power. So that his counsel wasto treat them in a hospitable manner at histable; and then send them away, withouthurting them. Wherefore Joram obeyed theprophet: and when he had feasted the Sy­rians in a splendid and magnificent manner,he let them go to Benhadad their king.t Now when these men were come back,and had shewed Benhadad how strange anaccident had befallen them: and how theyhad experienced the God of Israel's power,he wondered at it: as also at that prophetwith whom God was so evidently present.So he determined to make no more secretattempts upon the king of Israel, out of fearof Elisha: but resolved to make open warwith them; as supposing he could be toohard for his enemies by the multitude of hisarmy and his power. So he made an ex­pedition with a great army against Joram;who, not thinking himself a match for him,shut himself up in Samaria, and depended * 1 Kings vi. 20. t Upon occasion of this stratagem of Elisha's in Jose-phus, we may take notice, that although Josephus wasone of the greatest lovers of truth in the world, yet, ina just war, he seems to have had no manner of scruple upon him by all such stratagems possible to deceivepublic enemies. See this Josephus's account of Jere­miah's imposition on the great men of the Jews in some­what a like case, X. 7. See him also, VII. 9. And seeour own Bible, 2 Sam. xvi. 16, &c. and xvii. 1—16, 20.