OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 343 the last heavings of the revolutionary and national oppositionslowly died away. There was still work to be done in the provinces. Sar- The pro-dinia bad been speedily wrested by Lucius Philippus from winces,the governor of the revolutionary government QuintusAntonius (672), and Transalpine Gaul offered little or no 82.resistance; but in Sicily, Spain, and Africa the cause of theparty defeated in Italy seemed by no means lost. Sicilywas held for them by the trustworthy governor MarcusPerpenna. Quintus Sertorius had the skill to attach to him­self the provincials in Hither Spain, and to form no incon­siderable army from among the Romans settled in Spain,with which he in the first instance closed the passes of thePyrenees: in this he had given fresh proof that, whereverhe was stationed, he was in his place and amidst the incapa-bles of the revolution was the only man practically useful.In Africa the governor Hadrianus, who followed out thework of revolutionizing too thoroughly and began to giveliberty to the slaves, had been, on occasion of a tumultinstigated by the 'Woman merchants of Utica, attacked inhis official residence and burnt with his attendants (672); 82.nevertheless the province adhered to the revolutionarygovernment, and China's son-in-law, the young and ableGnaeus Domitius Aheuobarbus, was invested with the su­preme command there. Propagandism had even been carriedfrom thence into the client-states, Numidia and Mauretania.Their legitimate rulers, Hiempsal II. son of Gauda, andBogud son of Bocchus, adhered to Sulla; but with the aidof the Cinnans the former had been dethroned by the demo­cratic pretender Hiarbas, and similar feuds agitated theMauretanian kingdom. The consul Carbo who had fledfrom Italy tarried on the island Cossyra (Pantellaria) be­tween Africa and Sicily, at a loss, apparently, whether heshould flee to Egypt or should attempt to renew the strugglein one of the faithful provinces. Sulla sent to Spain Gaius Annius and Gaius Valerius Spain.Flaccus, the former as governor of Further Spain, the latteras governor of the province of the Ebro. They were sparedthe difficult task ot opening up the passes of the Pyreneesby force, in consequence of the general who was sent thitherby Sertorius having been killed by one of his officers andhis troops having thereafter melted away. Sertorius, much Sertoriustoo weak to maintain an equal struggle, hastily collected embarks.