OCR Output 98 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL" should be made at his own charges; and that the musical instf u-ments which the Levites used in singing hymns to God shouldbe given them. Moreover he charged them, that portions ofland should be given to those that guarded the city and the tem­ple, as also a determinate sum of money every year for theirmaintenance: and withal he sent the vessels. And all that Cy­rus intended to do before him relating to the restoration of Je­rusalem, Darius also ordained should be done accordingly. 9. Now when Zorobabel had obtained these grants from theking, he went out of the palace, and looking up to heaven, hebegan to return thanks to God for the wisdom he had given him,and the victory he had gained thereby, even- in the presence ofDarius himself; for, said he, "I had not been thought worthy"of these advantages, O Lord, unless thou hadst been favour-"able to me." When therefore he had returned these thanks toGod for the present circumstances he was in, and had prayed tohim to afford him the like favour for the time to come, he cameto Babylon, and brought the good news to his countrymen ofwhat grants he had procured for them from the king; who, when-they heard the same, gave thanks also to God that he restoredthe land of their forefathers to them again: So they betook them­selves to drinking, and eating, and for seven days they continuedfeasting, and kept a festival, for the rebuilding and restorationof their country: after this they <-V-se themselves rulers, whoshould go up to Jerusalem, out of i' '.ribes of their forefathers,with their wives and children, and cattle, who travelled to Je­rusalem with joy and pleasure, under the conduct of those whomDarius sent along with them, and making a noise with songs,and pipes, and cymbals. The rest of the Jewish multitude alsobesides accompanied them with rejoicing, 10. And thus did these men go, a certain and determinate num-»ber out of every family, though I do not think it proper to re-­cite particularly the name of those families, that I may not takeoff the mind of my readers from the connexion of the historicalfects, and make it hard for them to follow the coherence of mynarrations; but the sum of those that went up, above the age oftwelve years, of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, was * fourhundred sixty-two myriads and eight thousand; the Levites wereseventy-four : the number of the women and children mixed to­gether was forty thousand seven hundred and forty-two; and be­sides these, there were singers of the Levites one hundred and * This strange reading in Josophns' present copies of 4,OOO,COO instead of40,000, is one of the grossest errors that is in them, and ought to be correctedfrom Ezra ii. 64. 1 Esd. v. 40. and Neb. vii. 66. who all agree the general sumwas but about 42,360. It is also very plain, that Josephus thought, that whenEsdras afterwards brought up another company out of Babylon and Persia, in tlie