OCR Output U4i) THEBAE AEOYPTI. TI1F.BAE AEGYPTT. the name of Haineses II. and III., the latter of whomis the Sesostris of Herodotus, and who may thereforebe regarded as a clearly historical personage.There can be do doubt of the greatness of Thehesunder bis sceptre. In this, as in many other in­stances where Aepypt is concerned, the monumentsof the country enable us to approach the truth,while the credulity of the Greek travellers and his­torians in accepting the narrations of the Aegypt ianpriests — naturally eager, after their subjection bythe Persians, to exalt their earlier condition — onlytends to bewilder ami mislead. Thus, for example,Diodorus (i. 54) was informed that Seaostria led intotiie field 6UO,000 infantry, 24,000 cavalry, and27,000 chariots; and he appeals to the passagealready cited from Homer to show that Thebes sentso many chariots out of its hundred pales. Thereis no evidence that the Aegypt ians then possessed afleet in the Mediterranean; yet Diodorus numbersamong his conquests the Cydades, and Dicaearchus(SchoL in A poll. Jihxl. iv. 272) assigns to him"the greater part of Europe." The monuments, onthe contrary, record nothing so incredible of thismonarch; although if we may infer the extent of hisconquesta and the number of his victories from thespace occupied on the monuments by their pictorialrecords, he carried the arms of Aegypt beyond anyprevious boundaries, and Counted among his subjectsraces as various as those which, nearly 17 Centurieslater, were ruled by Trajan and the Antonines. Thereign of Kameses was of GO years' duration, that isnearly of equal length with his life, for the first ofJ lis victories—that recorded on the propylaea of thetemple of Luxor, and much more fully on those ofAhousiinbel —was gained in his fifth year. Wemust refer to works professedly dealing with Ae-gyptian annals for his hisotry: here it will besufficient to observe of Barneses or Sesostris thathe added to Thebes the Baffiesctoo, now gene­rally admitted to be the " monument of Osyman-dyas" upon the western bank of the Nile; that hewas distinguished from all his predecessors by theextent of bis conquests and the wisdom of bis laws;and among his subjects for his strength, comeliness,and valour. The very pre-eminence of Hameses III.has, indeed, obscured his authentic history. To himwere ascribed many works of earlier and of latermonarch*,— such as the canal of the Pharaohs, be­tween the Kile and the Red Sea; the dykes andembankments which rendered the Delta habitable;the great wall, 1500 stadia in length, between IV-IttSlura and lleliujxdis, raised as a barrier againstthe Syrians and Arabians; a rc-partition of theland of Aegypt; the law of hereditary occupation(Aristot. PoL vii. 10); and foreign conquests, or atleast expeditions into Western Asia, which renderedtributary to him even the Cokhians and the Hae-trians. (Tacit. Ann. ii. 60.) With the 21st dynasty appear the trices of arevolution affecting the Upper Kingdom. Tanks andBubastite Pharaohs are now lords of the Nile-valley:and these are succeeded by an Aethiopian dynasty,marking invasion and occupation of the Thebnid bya foreigner. Perhaps, as Aegypt became mure in­volved with the affairs of Asia—a result of the con­quests ot the house of Barneses it may have peeredexpedient to remove the seat of government nearert" the Syrian frontier. The dynasty of Sethns, theAethiopian, however, indicates a revolt of the pro-vmies S. of the cataracts; and even after the Ae-thiopians had withdrawn, the Lower Kingdom rc- tained its pre-eminence. The Suite Pluraiai fcan"tor despised the native militia, sod •sraassMthemselves with foreign mercenaries. Greek co­lonies were established in the Delta ; asd A^jimaintained a Meet an innovation extresNh pej*.dicial to Thebes, since it implied that the oU iaes-tion of the land was at on end. and thai tot ****power was on the Syrian, and not an U* Jfrontier. The stages of its decline cannot b» tbut Thebes seems to hare offered no opnnutiacthe fall of Memphis, to the Persians, sod iafter its occupation by Cambyses, newplace as a metropolitan city. Thit These* «•partially restored after the destruction e/ at Sari insecular buildings by the Persians, adais af atdoubt, since it was string enouzb in ic.K»hold out against the forces of I*ua>my LoarmHut although the circuit of its walls oar? seebeen undiminished, it seems never again to b»n asstilled as before with a dense population. The fcaai-ation of Alcxandreia was more fatal to Thabo tss> 1even the violence of Cambyses ; and it* ntcsasagainst the Macedonians was perhaps pR>*saeby jealousy of Greek commerce and rclapss- Tot jhand of Lathyrus lay heavy on Thebes ; as* tanthis epoch probably dates the second stare ef sbdecline. From the glimpses we gain of it tbasfftthe writings of the Greeks and Romans, it apnea* v»have remained the head-quarters of the ssnresnr Iorder and of old Aegypt ian life and morxen. is* 1Macedonian or Komon prefecture, it took bshsrsrpirt in the affairs of Aegypt ; yet it prafoJ rrB» Jgeneral peace of the world under the Caesars, Sonemployed its wealth or labour in the rejair *r mm ,ration of its monuments. The names •a'Akxassr )and some of the Ptolemies, of the Caesars fren Wberius to the Antonines, ore inscribed on it* dbbb» imeuts; and even in the fonrt b centnry a. n. s aajJof sufficient importance to attract the dock* af atsajtorians and travellers. Perhaps its final ma aajiowing as much to the fanaticism of the Caaansflof the Thebaid, who saw in its scnlptoret oa^llabominations of idol-worship, as to its icvapansiMthe Blemmyes and otlter barbarians from Xu'sa sailArabia. When the Saracens, who also were ■****]clasts, broke forth from Arabia, Thebes encodesfiruil desolation, and for many centuries A asnanalmost disappears: nor can its iinriiiinssti 'i sad inhave generally attracted the notice if Ear^aSflfluntil the French expedition to Aecypt err sssarjdisclosed its monuments. From that period, mmesjecially since the labours of Beizooi, as sbsIbbicity has been more frequently visited or asearaanVflThe growth of Thebes and the nddituea aa^Mit by successive monarch* or dynasties hare ansapartly traced in the foregoing sketch of* SB) nassHhistory. A few only of its principal kssm sjhere be noticed, bince the rains cf this city arxesisubject of many works, and even the most o—sssjaccount of them would almost demand a naasasflitself. Ancient Thebes, as bos already been saaarsaBJoccupied both the eastern and western baaNile; and four villages, two, on eachriver, now occupy a portion ui its erirjaaalthese villages two, Luxor and Karmk,eastern bank, and two, Gomrmeh and Mon the western. There is stun* difference iracier and purpose of the structures is the ejquarters of the city. Those on the anassBBfonned part of its east necrcfuha; asal kmfound the rock-hewn painted kxnhe,—* al» <