OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.- 387 .—BOOK XXXII. selves masters of the city in the sudden confusion;and then to seize on Norba and Circeii. Informationof this atrocious plot was brought to Rome, to LuciusCornelius Merula, the city pretor. Two slaves cameto him before day, and disclosed the whole proceedingsand intentions of the conspirators. The pretor, order­ing them to be guarded in his own house, summoned ameeting of the senate; and having laid before themthe information of the discoverers, he was ordered togo himself to the spot, and examine into, and crushthe conspiracy. Setting out, accordingly, with fivelieutenants-general, he compelled such as he found inthe country to take the military oath, to arm., andfollow him. Having by this tumultuary kind of levyarmed about two thousand men, before it was possibleto guess his destination he came to Setia. There theleaders of the conspiracy were instantly apprehended;on which, the remainder fled from the city; but partieswere sent through the country to search them out.The services of the two who made the discovery, andof one free person employed, were highly meritorious.The senate ordered a present to the latter of a hundredthousand asses:i to the slaves, twenty-five thousandasses3 each, and their freedom. The price was paidto the.ir owners out of the treasury. Not long after,intelligence was received, that others, out of the re­maining spirit of the conspiracy, had formed a designof seizing Prameste. The pretor, Lucius Cornelius,went thither, and inflicted punishment on near fivehundred persons concerned in that wicked scheme.The public were under apprehensions that the Car­thaginian hostages and prisoners fomented these plots:watches were, therefore, kept at Rome in all thestreets, which the inferior magistrates were ordered togo round and inspect; while the triumvirs of the pri­son, called the Quarry, were to keep a stricter guardthan usual. Circular letters were also sent by thepretor to all the Latine states, directing that the hos- 1 322/. 18s. id. * 80/. 14s. Td.