OCR Output 984 SICILIA.forward a law to admit them without distinction tothe Roman franchise (Cic. ad AH. xiv. 2), butneither of these measures was accomplished; and welearn from Pliny that Messana was in his day theonly city in the island of which the inhabitantspossessed the Itoman citizenship: three others, Cen-turipa, Xetum, and Segesta enjoyed the Jus Latii,while all the others (except the colonics alreadymentioned) were in the ordinary condition of "eivi-tates stipendiariae" (Phn. iii. 8. s. 14). We hearvery little of Sicily under the Empire; but it isprobable that it never really recovered from thestate of decay into which it had fallen in Strabo'stime. Almost the only mention of it in history isthat of an outbreak of slaves and banditti in thereign of Gallienus which seems to have resembledon a smaller scale the Senile wars that had formerlydevastated it (Treb. Poll. GaUten, 4). The in­creasing importance of the supply of corn fromAfrica and Eeypt renders it probable that that fromSicily had fallen off, anil the small number of re­mains of the imperial period still exiting in theisland, though so many are preserved from a muchearlier date, seems to prove that it could not thenhave been very flourishing. At a late period of theEmpire, also, we find very few names of towns in theItineraries, the lines of road being carried throughstations or "mansiones" otherwise wholly unknown,a sufficient proof that the neighbouring towns hadfallen into decay. {Itin. Ant. pp. 86—98.) In thedivision of the provinces under Augustus, Sicily wasassigned to the senate, and was governed by a pro­consul ; at a later period it was considered as apart of Italy, and was governed by a magistratenamed a Consularis, subject to the authority of theViearius Urbis Romae. (NotU. D'ujn. ii. p. 64; andBucking, ad loc.) Its insular position must have for a considerabletime preserved Sicily from the ravages of ifae barba­rians who devastated Italy towards the close of theWestern Empire. Alaric indeed attempted to crossover the straits, but was foiled by a tempest. (Hist.Misccll. x:ii. p. 535.) But Genseric, being masterof a powerful fleet, made himself master of thewhole island, which was held by the Vandals for atime, but subsequently passed into the hands of theGoths, and continued attached to the Gothic kingdomof Italy till it was conquered by Belisarius in A. i>.535. It was then united to the Eastern Empire,and continued to be governed as a dependency bythe Byzantine emperors till the ninth century, whenit fell into the hands of the Saracens or Arabs.That people first landed at Mazara, in the W. of theisland in a. d. 827, and made themselves mastersof Agrigentmn; but their progress was vigorouslyopposed. They took Messana in 831, and Panormusin 835, but it was not till 878 that Syracuse, thelast fortress in the island, fell into their hands.The island continued in the possession of the Sa­racens till the middle of the eleventh century, whenit was partially recovered by the Byzantine em­perors with the assistance of the Normans. But in1061 the Norman Roger Guiscard invaded Sicily onhis own account, and, after a long struggle, whollyreduced the island under his dominion. It has sinceremained attached, with brief exceptions, to the crownof Naples, the monarch of which bears the title ofKing of the Two Sicilies. The extant remains of antiquity in Sicily fullyconfirm the inference which we should draw fromthe statements of ancient historians, as to the SICIL prosperity and opulenceGreeks, and its compa:under the Romans. Thare few, and for the mexceptions being confine<which we know to havewhile the temples, theatrthe Greek period are nstriking character. Noexception of Athens, cjvie with those of which 1at Agrigentum, Selinos itime the existing relics aand inscriptions, strongalmost the whole papulagradually Hellenised. Iline of demarcation whiThucydides between thenon-Hellenic or barbariaidegree effaced btfore tldominion of Rome. Thementioned by Cicero in 1purely Greek where thejorigin, such as CentnripcCarthaginian cities likeas are those of Syracusmanner we find coins winumerous cities which □Greek colony, such as Aothers. It is probable ituRepublic the Language othe written and cultiviwhich must, however, ILatin under the Einpirthe present day is onediffers but slightly fromOf the language of th<trace at all, and it isnever used as a written III. To; The general descripti.of Sicily has been alreinecessary here to descrimore detail. The E. <Pelorus to Pachynus, ca very different charactemenium, a distance of;bordered by the chain oiNeptunius, the slopes othe sea, forming a very ojby numerous small torreilands between these vailnames of Drepanum (Pbut their identificationTauromenium, from th<that of the Symaethnaby beds of lava and othave flowed down frommidway between Aciumislets of volcanic originpum ScopuU: the nameby the same author to ibut it is impossible so &sheltered coves on thisdesignate, S. of the Sivaried, being indentedinlets, separated by proj<principal of these isMegarensis) so calledname: it was bounded i