OCR Output 304 THE EAST AND KING M1THRADATES. [Book IV Ponticarmy sentto Greece. Thrace to Asia and there paving the way for further re­sults by subduing Mithradates. That Sulla should haveallowed his weaker opponent to depart without hindrance,and instead of following him should have returned to86-85. Athens, where he seems to have passed the winter of 668-9,is in a military point of view surprising. We may supposeperhaps that in this also he was guided by political motives,and that he was sufficiently moderate and patriotic in hisviews willingly to forego a victory over his countrymen atleast so long as they had still the Asiatics to deal with, andto find the most tolerable solution of the unhappy dilemmain allowing the armies of the revolution in A sia and of theoligarchy in Europe to fight against the common foe.Second [85. In the spring of 669 there was again fresh work inEurope. Mithradates, who continued his preparationsindefatigably in Asia Minor, had sent an army not muchless than that which had been extirpated at Chaeronea,under Dorylaws to Euboea; thence it had, after a junctionwith the remains of the army of Archelaus, passed over theEuripus to Boeotia. The Pontic king, who judged of whathis army could do by the standard of victories over theBithynian and Cappadocian militia, did not understand theunfavourable turn which things had taken in Europe; thecircles of the courtiers were already whispering as tothe treason of Archelaus; perempfouy orders were issuedto fight a second battle at once with the new army, and notto fail on this occasion in annihilating the Romans. Themaster's will was carried out, if not in conquering, at leastin fighting. The Romans and Asiatics met once more inthe plain of the Cephissus, near Orchomenus. The numerousand excellent cavalry of the latter flung itself impetuouslyon the Boman infantry, which began to waver and giveway: the danger was so urgent, that Sulla seized a standardand advancing with his adjutants and orderlies against theenemy called out with a loud voice to the soldiers that, ifthey should be asked at home where they had abandonedtheir general, they might reply—at Orchomenus. This hadits effect; the legions rallied and vanquished the euemv'shorse, after which the infantry were overthrown with littledifficulty. On the following day the camp of the Asiatic*was surrounded and stormed; far the greatest portion ofthem fell or perished in the Gopaic marshes; a few only,Archelaus among the rest, reached Eubosa. The Bceotian Battle ofOrchome­nus.