OCR Output 40 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. "•to hinder our course, either against Corcyra, or«ny other'" place whither we are willing to go, and so violate treaties," take us first who are here in your power, and treat us as" enemies." The persons sent thus delivered their message: and thewhole company of the Corcyreans who heard it, shouted outimmediately to " apprehend and put them to death." Butthe Athenians returned this answer: " We neither begin war, ye men of Peloponnesus, nor vio-" late treaties. We are come hither auxiliaries to these Cor-" cyreans our allies. If therefore you are desirous to sail to" any other place, we hinder you not. But, if you go against" Corcyra, or any other place belonging to it, we shall endea-" vour to oppose you to the utmost of our power." UPON receiving this answer from the Athenians, theCorinthians prepared for their return home, and erected atrophy at Sybota on the continent. But the Corcyreanswere employed in picking up the wrecks and bodies of thedead, driving towards them by favour of the tide and thewind, which, blowing fresh the night before, had scatteredthem all about; and, as if they too had the victory, erectedan opposite trophy at Sybota in the island. The reasonsupon which each side thus claimed the victory were these—The Corinthians erected> a trophy, because they had thebetter of the engagement till night, and so were enabled topick up most of the shatters and the dead ; they had, further,taken a number of prisoners, not less than a thousand, andhad disabled about seventy ships of the enemy.—The Cor­cyreans did the same ; because they also had disabled aboutthirty; and, upon the coming up of the Athenians, had re­covered all the wreck and dead bodies driving towards them jand because the Corinthians, tacking about, had retired fromthem the night before, so soon as they descried the Athenianships ; and when they came to offer them battle at Sybota,durst not come out against them. In this manner did bothsides account themselves victorious.