OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 241 upon the inhabitants of Gaza, and gave them leave to punishthem; so some went one way, and some went another, and slewthe inhabitants of Gaza; yet were not they of cowardly hearts;but opposed those that came to slay them, and slew as many ofthe Jews; and some of them, when they saw themselves de­serted, burnt their own houses, that the enemy might get noneof their spoils; nay, some of them with their own hands, slewtheir children and their wives, having no other way but this ofavoiding slavery for them; but the senators, who were in allfive hundred, fled to Apollo's temple (for this attack happenedto be made as they were sitting,) whom Alexander slew; andwhen he had utterly overthrown their city, he returned to Je­rusalem, having spent a year in that siege. 4c. About this very time * Antiochus, who was called Gry-pus died. His death was caused by Heracleon's treachery, whenhe had lived forty-five years, and had reigned f twenty-nine.His son Seleucus succeeded him in his kingdom; and made warwith Antiochus, his father's brother, who was called AntiochusCyzicenus, and beat him, and took him prisoner, and slew him.But after a while | Antiochus, the son of Cyzicenus, who wascalled Pius, came to Aradus, and put the diadem on his own head;and made war with Seleucus, and beat him, and drove him outof all Syria. But when he fled out of Syria, he came to Mop-suestia again, and levied money upon them; but the people ofMopsuestia had indignation at what he did, and burnt downhis palace, and slew him, together with his friends. Butwhen Antiochus, the son of Cyzicenus, was king of Syria,§ Antiochus the brother of Seleucus, made war upon him andwas overcome, and destroyed, he and his army. After him, hisbrother Philip put on the diadem, and reigned over some partof Syria; but Ptolemy Lathyrus sent for his fourth brother De­metrius, who was called Eucerus from Cnidus, and made himking of Damascus. Both these brothers did Antiochus vehe­mently oppose, but presently died; for when he was come as anauxiliary to Laodice, |] queen of the Gileadites, when she was * This account of the death of Antiochus Grypus is confirmed by Appian, Syriac.p. 152. here cited by Spanheim. f Porphyry says, that this Antiochui Grypus reigned but 26 years, as Dr Hudsonobserves. | The copies of Josepbus, both Greek and Latin, have here so grossly false areading, Antiochus and Antoninus, or Antanms Plus for Antiochus J'ius, that theeditors are forced to correct the text from the other historians, who all agree that thisking's name was nothing more than Antiochus Pius, § These two brothers, Antiochus and Philippus, are called twins by Porphyry;the fourth brother was king of Damascus. Both which are the observations ofSpanheim. | This Laodicea was a c'ty of Gilead beyond Jordan. However Porphyry