OCR Output 312 WARS OF THE JE1V9. Book I. is immoveable; and when any body lets down any thing to mea.sure the depth of the earth beneath the water, no length of cordis sufficient to reach it. Now the fountains of Jordan rise at thejoots of this cavity outwardly; and, as some think, this is theutmost origin of Jordan: but we shall speak of that matter moreaccurately in our following history. 4. But the king erected other places at Jericho also, betweenthe citadel Cyprbs and the former palace, such as were betterand more useful than the former for travellers, and named themfrom the same friends of his. To say all at once, there was notany place of his kingdom fit for the purpose, that was permittedto be without somewhat that was for Caesar's honour, and whenhe had filled his own country with temples, he poured out thelike plentiful marks of his esteem into his province, and builtmany cities which he called Cesareas. . , _ 5. And when he observed that there was a city by the sea-side,that was much decayed (its name was Strata's Tower), but thatthe place, by the happiness of its situation, was capable of greatimprovements from his liberality, he rebuilt it all with white6tone, and adorned it with several most splendid palaces, whereinhe especially demonstrated his magnanimity ; for the case wasthis, that all the sea shore between Dora and Joppa, in the mid­dle, between which this city is situated, had no good haven, in­somuch that every o.ie that sailed from Pheniciafor Egypt wasobliged to lie in the stormy sea, by reason of the south winds thatthreatened them; which wind, if.it blew but a little fresh, suchvast waves are raised, and dash upon the rocks, that upon theirretreat, the sea is in a great ferment for a long way. But theking, by the expences he was at, and the liberal disposal of them,overcame nature, and built an haven larger than was the Pyree-um * [at Athens]; and in the other retirements of the water hebuilt other deep stations [for the ships also]. 6. Now although the place where he built was greatly oppo-sitetohis purposes,yet did he so fully struggle with that difficul­ty, that the firmness of his building could not easily be conquer­ed by the sea ; and the beauty and ornament of the works wassuch, as though he had not had any difficulty in the operation:for when he had measured out asl.irge a space as we have beforementioned, he let down stones into twenty fathom water,the great­est part of which were fity feet in length, and nine in depth, and ten * That Joscphus speaks troth, when he assures us that " the haven of this Ce-" sarea was made byi Herod not less, nay rather largefythan that famous haven at* Athens called the Pytcum" will appear, says Dean Aldrich, to him who com­pares the descriptions' of that at Athens in Thucydides »nd Pausanias, with this ofCtsarea in Jo^ephus here,, and in the Antiq. B. XV. ch, is. stct. 6. Vol. II. andB. XVU. eh. ix. jsect. \. vol. lit. .'•--<--. .