OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379 world, which would remain imperfect and mutilated if eitherof them should be put out. "It well becomes the Persians," replied Galerius, with a transport Answer ofof fury, which seemed to convulse his whole frame, ** it well be- "a""comes the Persians to expatiate on the vicissitudes of fortune,"and calmly to read us lectures on the virtues of moderation."Let them remember their own moderation towards the unhappy"Valerian. They vanquished him by fraud, they treated him"with indignity. They detained him till the last moment of"his life in shameful captivity, and after his death they exposed"his body to perpetual ignominy." Softening, however, his tone,Galerius insinuated to the ambassador, that it had never been thepractice of the Romans to trample on a prostrate enemy; and that,on this occasion, they should consult their own dignity, rather thanthe Persian merit. He dismissed Apharban with a hope, thatNarses would soon be informed on what conditions he might obtain,from the clemency of the emperors, a lasting peace, and therestoration of his wives and children. In this conference we maydiscover the fierce passions of Galerius, as well as his deference tothe superior wisdom and authority of Diocletian. The ambition of Moderation of Diocletian. the former grasped at the conquest of the East, and had proposedto reduce Persia into the state of a province. The prudence of thelatter, who adhered to the.moderate policy of Augustus and theAntonines, embraced the favourable opportunity of terminating asuccessful war by an honourable and advantageous peace 7S. in pursuance of their promise, the emperors soon afterwards Conclusionappointed Sicorius Probus, one of their secretaries, to acquaint thePersian court with their final resolution. As the minister of peace}he was received with every mark of politeness and friendship; but,under the pretence of allowing him the necessary repose afterso long a journey, the audience of Probus was deferred from dayto day; and he attended the flow motions of the king, till atlength he was admitted to his presence, near the river Asprudus, C c c 2 in