OCR Output 254 [book tu, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW& tormenting himself, and crying out, "O myson! I wish that I had died myself, and endedmy days with thee!" for he was of a tendernatural affection, and had extraordinarycompassion for this son in particular. Butwhen the army and Joab heard that the kingmourned for his son, they were ashamed toenter into the city in the habit of conquerors:but they all came in as cast down, and intears, as if they had been defeated.* Nowwhile the king covered himself, and griev­ously lamented his son, Joab went to himand comforted him, and said, "O my lordthe king, thou art not aware that thou layesta blot on thyself, by what thou now doest:for thou seemest to hate those that love thee,and undergo dangers for thee; nay, to hatethyself and thy family, and to love those thatare thy bitter enemies: and to desire thecompany of those who have been justly slain.For had Absalom obtained the victory, andfirmly settled himself in the kingdom, therehad been none of us left alive; but all of us,beginning with thyself and thy children, hadmiserably perished; while our enemies hadnot wept for us, but rejoiced over us, andpunished even those that lamented our mis­fortunes. And thou art not ashamed to dothis in the case of one that has been thybitter enemy; who while he was thine ownson, hath proved so wicked to thee. Leaveoff therefore thy unreasonable grief, andcome abroad to thy soldiers; and returnthem thanks for the alacrity they shewed inthe flight. For I myself will this day per­suade the people to leave thee and to givethe kingdom to another, if thou continuest todo thus; and then I shall make thee grievebitterly, and in earnest." Joab's speakingthus made the king leave off his sorrow, andbrought him to the consideration of his af­fairs. So he changed his habit, and exposedhimself in a manner fit to be seen by the mul­titude, and sat at the gates. Whereupon allthe people heard of it and ran togethert andsaluted him. CHAP. XI. OF DAVID S REINSTATEMENT IN THE KINGDOM, HIS RECO.N-CIUATION WITH SHIMEI AND ZIBA, AND HIS AFFECTIONTO BARZILLA1. THE REBELLION AND DEATH OF SHEBA. "T^TOW those Hebrews that had been with_|_^( Absalom, and had retired out of thebattle, when they were all returned home;sent messengers to every city to put them inmind of what benefits David had bestowedupon them; and of that liberty which hehad procured them, by delivering them frommany and great wars. But they complained,that whereas they had ejected him out ofhis kingdom, and committed it to anothergovernor, who was already dead; they didnot now beseech David to leave off his angerat them, and to become friends with them;and, as he used formerly to do, to resumethe care of their affairs, and to take the king­dom again. This was often told to David;and this, notwithstanding David sent to Za-dok and Abiathar the high-priest, that theyshould speak to the rulers of the tribe ofJudah after the following manner: that itwould be a reproach upon them to permitthe other tribes to choose David for theirking before their tribe, and this while theywere akin to him, and of the same commonblood. He commanded them also to sayto Amasa, the captain of their forces: thatwhereas he was his sister's son, he had notpersuaded the multitude to restore the king­dom to David. That he might expect fromhim not only a reconciliation, for that wasalready granted, but that supreme commandof the army also which Absalom had be­stowed upon him. Accordingly the high-priests, when they had discoursed with therulers of this tribe, and said what the kinghad ordered them, persuaded Amasa toundertake the care of his affairs. So hepersuaded that tribe to send ambassadorsimmediately, to beseech him to return tohis own kingdom. The same did all theIsraelites, at the like persuasion of Amasa. place of that city gate, which seems still to have beenbuilt the highest of any part of the wall; and since ourother copies say he went to the chamber over the gate,2 Sam. xviii. 33. I think we ought to correct our pre­sent reading of Josephus, and for city, should read gate:i. e. instead of the highest part of the city, should say, the highest part of the gate. Accordingly we find Davidpresently in Josephus, as well as in our other copies, 8Sam. six. 8. sitting as before in the gate of this city. * 2 Sam. xix. 2, 3. t 2 Sam. xix. 8.