OCR Output LIPARA. LIPARA. 195 am>). Both he and Pliny inform us that it was'originally called Meligunis (MfAryowfj); a namethat must probably be referred to the period befurothe Greek colony; although ancient writers affirm |that it derired the name of Lipara from Liparus, ason of Auson, who reigned there before Aeolus, sothat they most hare referred the name of Meligunisto a purely fabuloos age. (Plin. iii. 9. s. 14; Diod.r. 7.) The name of Aeolus himself is inseparably Iconnected with the Aeolian islands, and there canlie no doubt that his abode was placed by the ear­liest mythological traditions in Lipara itself, thoughin later times this was frequently transferred toStronpyle. [Aeoliae Lnsulak, p. 52.] Id the historical period the first mention that wefind of Lipara is tie settlement there of a Greekrrdoiiy. This is assigned by Diodorus to the 50thOlympiad (B.C. 580—577); and there seems noreason to doubt this date, though Eusebius (on whatauthority we know not) carries it back nearly 50Tears, and places it as early as B. c. 627. (Diod.r. 9; Euseb. Arm. p. 107; Clinton, F. ff. vol. i.pp. 208, 232.) The colonists were Dorians fromt'nido* and Rhodes; but the former jieople predomi­nated, and the leader of the colony, Pentathlus, washimself a Cnidian, so that the city was alwaysreckoned a Cnidian colony. (Diod. /. c; Pans. x.11. § 3; Thnc. iii. 88; Strab. vi. p. 275; Scymn.Ch. 263.) According to some accounts Pentathlusdid not himself liTe to reach Lipara, but the colonywas founded by his sons. (Diod. L c.) Of its his­tory we know scarcely anything for more than aantnry and a half, but are told generally that itattained to considerable power anil prosperity, andthat the necessity of defending themselves againsttire Tyrrhenian pirates led the Liparaeans to esta­blish a naval force, with which they ultimately ob­tained some brilliant victories over the Tyrrhenians,awl commemorated these successes by costly ofl'er-ir«» at Delphi. (Strab. I c.; Diod. v. 9; Pans. I.11. § 3, 16. § 7.) It appears, however, that theLiparaeans themselves were sometimes addicted topiracy, and on one occasion their corsairs intercepteda valuable offering that the Romans were sending toDelphi; but their chief magistrate, Timasitheus, im­mediately caused it to be restored and forwarded toiu destination. (Diod. xiv. 93; Liv. v. 28; Val.Ha. i. 1. $ 4.) The territory of Lipara, though of small extent,*a» fertile, and produced abundance of fruit; butits more important resources were its mines of alum,arising from tbe volcanic nature of the soil, and thoabundance of thermal sources proceeding from the»me ca ise. Tbe inhabitants of Lipara not onlyraltirated their own island, but the adjoining ones*f Hiera, Strongyle, and Didyme as well; a proofthat the population of Lipara itself must have beenconsiderable. (Tone. iii. 88; Diod. v. 10; Paus.«. M. § 4; Strab. vi. p. 275.) At the time of the first Athenian expedition toSicily under Laches (b. c. 427) the Liparaeans werein alliance with tbe Syracusans, probably on accountof uvir Dorian descent; fur which reason they wereattacked by the Athenian and Rhegian fleet, but"■•to no tenons result. (Thuc. iii. 88; Diod. xii.54.) In n. c. 396 they again appear as iu friendly«latx*s with Syracuse, and were in consequencoattacW by the Carthaginian general Himilco, whorade himself master of tbe city and exacted a con-tronlini of 30 talents from the inhabitants. ( Diod.*<*• 56.) It don not appear that the Carthaginians at this time retained possession of Lipara; and wusubsequently find it in the enjoyment of independ­ence in b. c. 304, when the island was suddenlyattacked by Agathocles, in the midst of profoundpeace, and without even a pretext for the aggression.The invader carried off a booty of 50 talents,which was, however, lost on his voyage to Sicily ina storm, which was naturally attributed to the wrathof Aeolus. (Id. xx. 101.) It could not have beenlong after this that Lipara fell under the yoke ofCarthage, to which city it was subject at the out­break ot the First Puuic War (b. c. 264), and fromits excellent ports, and advantageous situation forcommanding the N. coast of Sicily, became a fa­vourite naval station with that people. (Id. xxii. 13,p. 500.) In the fifth year of the war (b. c. 260),the Roman consul, Cn. Cornelius, having been de­ceived with the hopes of making himself master ofthe island, was captured there, with his wholesquadron (Pol. i. 21); and in B.C. 257, a battlewas fought between the Carthnginian and Romanfleets in its immediate neighbourhood (/A 25):but a few years later it was at length taken by theRomans, under C. Aurelius, and remained in theirhands from this time, B.C. 251. {lb. 39; Diod.xxiii. 20; Zonar. viii. 14; Oros. iv. 8; Frontin.Strat. iv. 1. § 31.) At tho commencement of the Second Punic Wara considerable Carthaginian squadron was wreckedon the shores of Lipara and the adjoining island ofVutctmo (Liv. xxi. 49); but from this lime we findno historical mention of it till the war betweenOctavian and Sextus Pompeius in Sicily, in B.C. 36,when Lipara and the adjoining islands once moreappear as a naval station of importance. It wasoccupied and furtified by Pompeius, but taken byAgrippa, who afterwards established his fleets at theisland of Vulcano, and from thence threatened theforces of Pompeius at Mvlae and Messana. (Appian,B.C. v. 97,105,112: Dion Cass. xlix. 1,7.) Thereseems no doubt that Lipara continued to enjoy con­siderable prosperity under the Roman government.Diodorus praises its fertility, as well as the excel­lence of its ports; and says that the Liparaeans de­rived a large revenue from the monopoly of the tradein alum. (Diod. v. 10.) Cicero, indeed, speaks of itin disparaging terms, as "parva <i vitas, in insulainculta tenuique posita" {Verr. iii. 37); but thisseems to be an oratorical exaggeration, and the im­mediate reference of the passage is to corn, for thegrowth of which Lipara could never have been welladapted. But though suffering severely from droughtin summer (Thuc. iii. 88), owing to the volcanicnature of the soil, the island is, nevertheless, one ofconsiderable fertility, and at the present day pro­duces abundance of fruit, wine, and oil. (Smyth'sSicily, p. 265; D'Orville, Simla, p. 18.) Under the Roman Empire Lipara was some­times used as a place of exile for political of­fenders (Dion Cass, lxxvi. 6); and before the fall ofthe Western Empire it became a favourite resort ofmonks. At an earlier period of the Empire it wasfrequented for its hot baths (Plin. xxxi. 6. s. 32;Diod. v. 10), which are still in use at the presentday, being supplied from thermal springs : someremains of ancient buildings, still visible, appearto have been connected with these establishments.A few fragments of walls may also be traced on thehill crowned by the modern castle; and many coins,fragments of sculpture, Ac, have been discoveredon the island. (Smyth's Sicily, p. 262.) o 2