OCR Output C. XIII.] AND SACRILEGE. 233 were fighting for the Divinity, without fear; and that suchwhoso warfare is for the temple, should live of the temple: onwhich account he emptied the vessels of that sacred wine andoil which the priests kept to be poured on the burnt-offerings,and which lay in the inner court of the temple, and distributedit among the multitude, who, in their anointing themselves,and drinking, used [each of them] above a hin of them. Andhere I cannot but speak my mind, and what the concern I amunder dictates to me, and it is this : — I suppose, that hadthe Romans made any longer delay in coming against thesevillains, that the city would either have been swallowed up bythe ground opening upon them, or been overflowed by water,or else been destroyed by such thunder as the country ofSodom' perished by; for it had brought forth a generation ofmen much more atheistical than were those that suffered suchpunishments; for by their madness it was that all the peoplecame to be destroyed. 7. And, indeed, why do I relate these particular calamities?while Manneus, the son of Lazarus, came running to Titus atthis very time, and told him, that there had been carried outthrough that one gate, which was intrusted to his care, nofewer than a hundred and fifteen thousand eight hundred andeighty dead bodies, in the interval between the fourteenthday of the month Xanthicus [Nisan,] when the Romanspitched their camp by the city, and the first day of the monthPanemus [Tamuz.] This was itself a prodigious multitude:and though this man was not himself set as a governor atthat gate, yet was he appointed to pay the public stipend forcarrying these bodies out, and so was obliged of necessity tonumber them, while the rest were buried with their relations ;though all their burial was but this, to bring them away, and 1 Josephus, both here and before, B. iv. ch. viii. sect. 4, esteems the landof Sodom not as part of the lake Asphaltitis, or under its waters, but near itonly, as Tacitus also took the samo notion from him, Hist. v. vi. 7, whichthe great Reland takes to be the very truth, both on his note on this place,and in his Palestina, torn. i. p. 2o4-i;o8; though I rather suppose part ofthat region of rentapolis to be now under the waters of the south part ofthat sea, but perhaps not the whole country. 20*