OCR Output CHAP. 59. ROMAN HISTORY. . 103 Brutus, marched in arms to Rome. After they had en­tered the city, the appearance of a body in arms, spreadterror and confusion, wherever it went; but when theprincipal men of the state were observed to be at thehead of it, they readily concluded, whatever it might be,it had been no rash nor unadvised undertaking. Nordid this barbarous action occasion less commotion atRome, than it had done at Collatia. From all quartersthey ran into the Forum; and the moment they wereconvened, they were summoned by the public crier, toattend the tribune of the celeres, with which office,Brutus happened to be invested at that time. Then heharangued the people, but with a force and energy verydirferent from that degree of wisdom and capacity, ofwhich the character be assumed had been expressive, tothat day. Then be inveighed against the violence andbrutal passion ofSextus Tarquinius, the rape of Lucretia,so infamous, that he blushed to mentiou it;—her unfor­tunate end.—The loss to Triclpitinus of his daughter,the cause of whose death, was more afflicting and dis­tressing than her death itself.—To these, he added theking's haughtiness;—4he miseries and servile labours ofthe people, oppressed with ditching and draining commonsewers; and that the Romans, conquerors of all the na­tions around them, of soldiers were now become commonmechanics and hewers of stone. He mentioned the in­human murder of their king Servius Tultius, and his ac­cursed daughter riding in triumph over the body of herexpiring father: he invoked the gods, the avengers ofparents. By a lively representation of these horrid scenes, andothers, I fancy, still more glaring, dictated by the ca­lamity of the times, which a modern historian cannoteasily collect, or narrate, he had the address to engagethe people, already enraged at the Tarquins, to abolish.the regal authority, and by their suffrages to confirm adecree of the senate, condemning Tarquin, his wife,and all his posterity, to perpetual banishment. Havinglevied, and armed a body of youth, who voluntarily listedthemselves, he put himself at their head, and marched tothe camp of Ardea, to persuade the army to join in therebellion against the king. He left the government of