OCR Output B.I.] AGAINST APION. 389 us Jews, though in way of derision at our simplicity, as hesupposes it to be ; for when he was discoursing of the affairsof Stratonice, " how she came out of Macedonia into Syria,and left her husband Demetrius, while yet Seleucus wouldnot marry her as she expected, but, during the time of hisraising an army at Babylon, stirred up a sedition about An-tioch; and how, after that, the king came back, and uponhis taking of Antioch, she fled to Seleucia, and had it in herpower to sail away immediately, yet did she comply with adream which forbade her so to do, and so was caught andput to death." When Agatharchides had premised this story,and had jested upon Stratonice for her superstition, he givesa like example of what was reported concerning us, and writesthus : — " There are a people called Jews, and dwell in a citythe strongest of all other cities, which the inhabitants callJerusalem, and are accustomed to rest on every seventhday;' on which times they make no use of their arms, normeddle with husbandry, nor take care of any affairs of life,but spread out their hands in their holy places, and pray tillthe evening. Now it came to pass that when Ptolemy, theson of Lagus, came into this city with his army, that thesemen, in observing this mad custom of theirs, instead of guard­ing the city, suffered their country to submit itself to a betterlord ; and their law2 was openly proved to have commandeda foolish practice. This accident taught all other men butthe Jews to disregard such dreams as these were, and not tofollow the like idle suggestions delivered as a law, when, insuch uncertainty of human reasonings, they are at a loss whatthey should do." Now this our procedure seems a ridiculousthing to Agatharchides, but will appear to such as considerit without prejudice a great thing, and what deserved a greatmany encomiums ; I mean, when certain men constantly pre­ 1 A glorious testimony this of the observation of the Sabbath by the Jews.See Antiq. B. xvi. ch. ii. sect. 4; ch. vi. sect. 2; the Life, sect. 54, and War,B. iv. ch. ix. 6ect. VI. * Not their law, but the superstitious interpretation of their leaders, whichneither the Maccabees nor our blessed Savior did ever approve of. 33*