OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 383 Nothing lay further from Sulla than systematic ambition. Sulla's po-He had too much sense to regard, like the average aristocrats litica] ca-of his time, the inscription of his name in the roll of the con- reer-suls as the aim of his life; he was too indifferent and toolittle of an ideologue to be disposed voluntarily to engage inthe reform of the rotten structure of the state. He remained—where birth and culture placed him—in the circle offashionable society, and passed through the usual routine ofoffice ; he had no occasion to exert himself, and left such ex­ertion to the political working bees, of whom there was intruth no want. Thus in 647, on the distribution of the quaes- 107.torial appointments, accident brought him to Africa to thehead-quarters of Gaius Marius. The untried man-of-fashionfrom the capital was not very well received by the roughboorish general and his experienced staff. Provoked by thisreception Sulla, fearless and skilful as he was, rapidly madehimself master of the profession of arms, and in his daringexpedition to Mauretania first displayed that peculiar com­bination of audacjty and cunning, with reference to whichhis contemporaries said of him, that he was half lion halffox and that the fox in him was more dangerous than thelion. To the young, highborn, brilliant officer, who wasconfessedly the real means of ending the vexatious Nu-midian war, the most splendid career now lay open: he tookpart also in the Cimbrian war, and manifested his singulartalent for organization in the management of the difficulttask of providing supplies; nevertheless the pleasures ofthe capital still had more attraction for him than war oreven politics. During his praetorship, which office he heldin 661 after having failed in a previous candidature, it once 93.more chanced that in his province, the least important ofall, the first victory over king Mithradates and the firsttreaty with the mighty Arsacids, as well as their first humi­liation, occurred. Tlie civil war followed. It was Sullamainly, who decided the first act of it—the Italian insurrec­tion—in favour of Rome, and thus won for himself the con­sulship by his sword; it was he, moreover, who when consulsuppressed with energetic rapidity the Sulpician revolt.Fortune seemed to make it her business to eclipse the oldhero Marius by means of this younger officer. The captureof Jugurtha, the vanquishing of Mithradates, both of whichMarius had striven for in vain, were accomplished in subor­dinate positions by Sulla: in the Social war, in which