OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUIT1KS OF THE JEWS. 291 ought not to he admitted, when the multitude were purifyingthemselves. But Herod had little regard to the messengers, thatwere sent to him, and entered the city in the night time, and af­frighted Malichus, yet did he remit nothing of his former dissi­mulation, but wept for Antipater, and bewailed him as a friendof his, with a loud voice: But Herod and his friends thought itproper, not openly to contradict Malichus' hypocrisy, but togive him tokens of mutual friendship, in order to prevent hissuspicion of them. 6. However, Herod sent to Cassius, and informed him of themurder of his father; who knowing what sort of man Malichuswas as to his morals, sent him back word, that he should revengehis father's death; and also sent privately, to the commandersof his army at Tyre, with orders to assist Herod in the executionof a very just design of his. Now when Cassius had taken Lao-dicea, they all went together to him, and carried him garlandsand money; and Herod thought that Malichus might be punish­ed while he was there; but he was somewhat apprehensive ofthe thing, and designed to make some great attempt, and becausehis son was then an hostage at Tyre, he went to that city, andresolved to steal him away privately, and to march thence intoJudea; and as Cassius was in haste to march against Antony, hethought to bring the country to revolt, and to procure the go­vernment for himself. But providence opposed his counsels;and Herod being a shrewd man, and perceiving what his inten­tion was, he sent thither beforehand a servant, in appearanceindeed to get a supper ready, for he had said before, that hewould feast them all there, but in reality to the commanders ofthe army, whom he persuaded to go out against Malichus, withtheir daggers. So they went out and met the man near the city,upon the seashore, and stabbed him. Whereupon Hyrcanuswas so astonished at what had happened, that his speech failedhim; and when, after some difficulty, he had recovered himselfhe asked Herod, what the matter could be, and who it was thatslew Malichus? and when he said that it was done by the com­mand of Cassius, he commended the action; for that Malichuswas a very wicked man, and one that conspired against his owncountry. And this was the punishment that was inflicted onMalichus for what he wickedly did to Antipater. 7. But when Cassius was marched out of Syria, disturbancesarose in Judea: for Felix, who was left at Jerusalem with anarmy, made a sudden attempt against Phasaelus, and the peoplethemselves rose in arms; but Herod went to Fabius, the prelectof Damascus, and was desired to run to his brother's assistance,but was hindered by a distemper that seized upon him, till Pha­saelus by himself had been too hard for Felix, and had shut him VOL. II. O O 23