OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 775 seem rather exaggerated, as the whole XW. tide ofthe Palatine hill does not exceed about 2 stadia.We most conclude that it was continued throughthe Velabrum to the circus. Its length as Caninaobserves (for. Rom. pt. i. p. 67) is a proof thatthe forum must have extended from NW. to SE.,and not from NE. to S\V.; as in the latter case, thespace for the street, already too short, would have beenconsiderably curtailed. This street, probably fromthe habits of its primitive colonists, became theabode of fishmongers, fruiterers, bird-fanciers, silk-mercers, and perfumers, and enjoyed but an indifferentreputation (" Tusci turba impia vici," Hor. & ii. 3.29.) It was here, however, that the best silks in Romewere to be procured (" Nec nisi prima velit de Tuscoserica vico. Mart xi. 27.11). In fact, it seems tohave been the great shopping street of Rome; andthe Roman gentlemen, whose ladies, perhaps, some­times induced them to spend more than whatwas agreeable there, vented their ill humour byabusing the tradesmen. According to the scholiaston the passage of Horace just cited, the street wasalso called Vitus Turarius. This appellation wasdoubtless derived from the frankincense and per­fumes sold in it, whence the allusion in Horace (£p.I I. 267):— "Ne capsa porreotus apertaDeferor in vicum vendentem tus et odores,Et piper, et quicquid cbartis amicitur ineptis." hia Ulan lie plalea dicitur, ubi mercatorcs etCentura Metis causa ronvenire solebant." Int it was the Roman Change. The ascent fromt Umn to the summit of the Capitoline hill,Mn tie Sacra Via terminated, was, we know,M Cliru Capitolinus. 1: 'till remains to notice Becker's dictum (i/r<™, p. 23) that the name uf this street shouldnji be written Sacra Via, and not in reversedar V» Sacra. To the exceptions which he notedMmseif, be adds some more in the Handbuchi\'),yte\ and another from Seneca (Controv.rip 299. Dip) in his Addenda; and Urlichs•a. Tipter. p. 8) increases the list. On ther, it wuuld teem that though Sacra Via is then i-cal expression, the other cannot be regarded lawi J*fvruu — Of the name of the street whichliu; tie toutb side of the forum we are utterlynot; bat from it issued two streets, which were»; the most busy, and best known, in Rome. »ct tbs Vic us Jugarius and Vicus Tuscua.in before bad occasion to mention that the *u ckee under the Capitoline hill, from the"i k tat 1'orta Carroentalis. It was thought ton iti n from an altar which stood in it to Junoi ti» presiding deity of wedlock. (Paul. Diac.M. lUll) It does not appear to have contained*ber jeered places in ancient times; but Au-» taliuled in it altars to Ceres and Ops-JU. (/'«»<. Amit. IV. Id. Aug.) At the topt* »ireet, where it entered the forum, was thetn» tailed Lacus Serrilius, which obtained awnritty during the proscriptions of Sulla, aa itlf» list the heads of the murdered senatorsapwei (Cic jVoac. Am. 32; Senec Prov. 3.)Iptpps adorned it with the effigy of a hydrap 290. Milll.). Between the Vicus Ju-■ ud Capitoline hill, and close to the foot ofaS>, lay the Aequimaelium (Liv. xxxviii. 28),I kiir derived its name from occupying the( ttt boose of the demagogue, Sp. Maelius,» fud been razed (Varr. LA. v. 157, Mull.;n. 16). It served aa a market-place, espe-hc the sale of lambs, which were in great * tar sacrifices, and probably correspondedmodern Via del Monte Tarpeo. (CicDw. rw Tiuraf.—In the imperial times the Vicus'«ai bounded at its eastern extremity by theJiiu; and on the further side of this build-P«a, Uy the Vicus Tu*cus. According to some'this street was founded in B c. 507,"■i„ned to such of the Etruscans in the van-•1 tat of Aruns aa had tied to Rome, and felt•»""ttfc there (Lit. ii. 15; Dionys. v. 36); * before related, on the authority of Varrofa.'j* that it <raa foonded in the reign of-■• Time conflicting statements may, per-'imartfed, by considering the later aettle- *j bod of second or subsidiary one. How-•* nay bt, it is with the topographical facts * are bare more particularly concerned, about!' triiii communicates some interesting '-■*<• He describes the ground assigned to»*«• u a sort of hollow or gorge situatedr '•• Pslatine aDd Capitoline hills; and ini tworh; 4 stadia, or half a Roman mile, from■»» if the Circus Maxim us (v. 36). WeK-oa« that this measurement included allof the street; and even then it would Being the road from the forum to the circus andAventine, it was much used for festal processions.Thus it was the route of the Pompa Circeusis,which proceeded from the Capitol over the forum,and by the Vicus Tuscua and Velabrum to thecircus. (Dionys. vii. 72.) We have seen that theprocession of the virgins passed through it from thetemple of Apollo outside the Porta Carmentalis tothat of Juno Rcgina on the Aventine. Yet not­withstanding these important and sacred uses, it isone of the charges brought by Cicero against Verresthat he had caused it to be paved so villanouslythat he himself would not have ventured to rideover it. ( Verr. i. 59.) We see from this passagethat a statue of Vertumnus, the national Etruscandeity, stood at the end of the street next the forum.Becker (Handb. p. 308) places him at the other ex­tremity near the Velabrum. But all the evidenceruns the other way; and the lines of Propertius (iv.2. 5), who puts the following words into thepod's mouth, are alone sufficient to decide the matter(Clou. Mue. vol. iv. p. 444):— "Nec me tura juvant, nec templo laetor eburnoRomanum satis est posse vidcre forum." Comitium.—Having thusdescribed thestreets whicheither encircled the forum or afforded outlets from it,we will now proceed to treat of the forum itself, andthe objects situated upon and around it, and endea­vour to present the reader with a picture of it as itexisted under the Kings, during the Republic, andunder the Empire. But here, as in the case of theCapitol, wc are arrested in the outset by a difficultinvestigation. We know that a part of the forum,called the comitium, was distinguished from therest by being appropriated to more honourable uses;but what part of the forum it was has been thesubject of much dispute. Some, like Canina, haveconsidered it to be a space running parallel with theforum along its whole southern extent; whilst others,like Bunsen and Becker, have thought that it formed 3 D 4