OCR Output 108 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. numerous laws, betokened his genuine statesmanly talent; asthe passionate devotedness faithful even to death, with whichhis intimate friends clung to him, evinced the loveablenature of that noble mind. The discipline of sufferingwhich he had undergone, and his compulsory reserve duringthe last nine years, augmented his energy of purpose andaction; the indignation repressed within the depths of hisbreast only glowed there with an intensified fervour againstthe party, which had disturbed his country and murdered hisbrother. By virtue of this fearful vehemence of tempera­ment he became the foremost orator that Home ever had;without it, we should probably have been able to reckonhim among the first statesmen of all times. Among the fewremains of his recorded orations several* are, even in theirpresent condition, of heart-stirring power; and we can wellunderstand how those who heard or even merely read themwere carried away by the impetuous torrent of his words.Yet, great master as he was of language, he was himself notunfrequently mastered by anger, so that the utterance ofthe brilliant speaker became confused or faltering. It wasthe true image of his political acting and suffering. In thenature of Gaius there was uo vein, such as his brother had,of that somewhat sentimental but very short-sighted andconfused good-nature, which would have desired to changethe mind of a political opponent by entreaties and tears;fully and firmly resolved, he entered on the career of revo­lution, and strove to reach the goal of vengeance. "To metoo," his mother wrote to him, "nothing seems finer andmore glorious than to retaliate on an enemy, so far as it can bedone without the country's ruin. But if this is not possible,then may our enemies continue and remain what they are, athousand times rather than that our country should perish."Cornelia knew her son; his creed was just the reverse.Vengeance he would wreak on' the wretched government,vengeance at any price, though he himself and even thecommonwealth were to be ruined by it. The presentiment,that fate would overtake him as certainly as his brother, * Such are the words spoken on the announcing of his projects of law:—"If I were to speak to you and ask of you, seeing that I am of noble descentand have lost my brother on your account and that there is now no survivor ofthe descendants of Publius Africanus and Tiberius Gracchus excepting onlymyself and a boy, to allow me to take rest for the present, in order that ourstock may not be extirpated and that an offset of that family may stillsurvive; you would perhaps readily grant me such a request."