OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 161 played his virtues and concealed his defects. The chap.young hero who supported, in Gaul, the throne of xvxConstantius, was not permitted to reform the vicesof the government; but he had courage to alleviateor to pity the distress of the people. Unless he hadbeen able to revive the martial spirit of the Romans,or to introduce the arts of industry and refinementamong their savage enemies, he could not entertainany rational hopes of securing the public tranquillity,either by the peace or conquest of Germany. Yetthe victories of Julian suspended, for a short time,the inroads of the Barbarians, and delayed the ruinof the Western Empire. His salutary influence restored the cities of Gaul, Descriptionwhich had been so long exposed to the evils of civilof Fans'discord, Barbarian war, and domestic tyranny; andthe spirit of industry was revived with the hopes ofenjoyment. Agriculture, manufactures, and com­merce, again flourished under the protection of thelaws; and the curice, or civil corporations, wereagain filled with useful and respectable members:the youth were no longer apprehensive of marriage;and married persons were no longer apprehensive ofposterity: the public and private festivals were cele­brated with customary pomp; and the frequent andsecure intercourse of the provinces displayed theimage of national prosperity *. A mind like that ofJulian must have felt the general happiness of whichhe was the author; but he viewed, with peculiarsatisfaction and complacency, the city of Paris; theseat of his winter residence, and the object even ofhis partial affection t. That splendid capital, whichnow embraces an ample territory on either side of * Libanius, Orat. Parental. in Imp. Julian. c. 38. in Fabricius Bibliothec.Grsec. torn. vii. p. 263, 264. .f See Julian. in Misopogon. p. 340, 341. The primitive state of Paris isillustrated by Henry Valesius (ad Ammian. xx. 4.), his brother Hadrian Vale-sius, or de Valois, and M. d'Anville (in their respective Notitias of ancientGaul), the Abb£ de Longuerue,Description de la France, torn. i. p. 12, IS. andM. Bonamy (in the Mem. del'Academiedes Inscriptions, torn. xv. p. G5G—091). VOL. II. M