OCR Output 36* THE DECLINE ANI> FAL1 of Rome; and the latter, after saving his country from the designsof Catiline, enabled her to contend with Athens for the palm ofeloquence 17. vinceT0 ^ne Provinces °f rtie empire (as they have been described in the preceding chapter) were destitute of any public force, or constitu­tional freedom. In Etruria, in Greece 28, and in Gaul19, it wasthe first care of the senate to dissolve those dangerous confederacieswhich taught mankind, that, as the Roman arms prevailed by di­vision, they might be resisted by union. Those princes, whom anostentation of gratitude or generosity permitted for a while to holda precarious scepter, were dismissed from their thrones, as soon asthey had performed their appointed task of fashioning to the yokethe vanquished nations. The free states and cities which had em­braced the cause of Rome, were rewarded with a nominal alliance,and insensibly sunk into real servitude. The public authoritywas every where exercised by the ministers of the senate and of theemperors, and that authority was absolute, and without control.But the same salutary maxims of government, which had securedthe peace and obedience of Italy, were extended to the most dis­tant conquests. A nation of Romans was gradually formed in theprovinces, by the double expedient of introducing colonies, and ofadmitting the most faithful and deserving of the provincials to thefreedom of Rome. Colonies and "Wheresoever the Roman conquers, he inhabits," is a very justtowM.IFal observation of Seneca'% confirmed by history and experience. The natives of Italy, allured by pleasure or by interest, hastened to enjoythe advantages of victory; and we may remark, that about forty yearsafter the reduction of Asia, eighty thousand Romans were massacredin one day, by the cruel orders of Mithridates ". These voluntaryexiles were engaged, for the most part, in the occupations of com­merce, agriculture, and the farm of the revenue. But after the legionswere rendered permanent by the emperors, the provinces were peopled by