OCR Output CHAP. L. 327 ness of their Arabian brethren had restrained them fromopposing his ambition: the disciples of Jesus were en­deared to the enemy of the Jews; and it was the inte­rest of a conqueror to propose a fair capitulation to themost powerful religion of the earth.Death of Till the age of sixty-three years, the strength^D°632 of Mahomet was equal to the temporal and spi-Juno 7. ritual fatigues of his mission. His epileptic fits,an absurd calumny of the Greeks, would be an object ofpity rather than abhorrence,1 but he seriously believedthat he was poisoned at Chaibar by the revenge of aJewish female.™ During four years, the health of theprophet declined; his infirmities increased; but his mor­tal disease was a fever of fourteen days, which deprivedhim by intervals of the use of reason. As soon as he wasconscious of his danger, he edified his brethren by thehumility of his virtue or penitence. If there be any man(said the apostle from the pulpit) whom I have unjustlyscourged, I submit my own back to the lash of retaliation.Have I aspersed the reputation of a Mussulman? let himproclaim my faults in the face of the congregation. Hasany one been despoiled of his goods? the little that I pos­sess shall compensate the principal and the interest of thedebt.— Yes (replied a voice from the crowd), / am en-tilled to threedrachms of silver. Mahometheard the com­plaint, satisfied the demand, and thanked his creditor foraccusing him in this world rather than at the day ofjudgment He beheld with temperate firmness the ap­proach of death; enfranchised his slaves (seventeen men, quotes the impostor's treaty with the Nestorian patriarch; (Asseman. Bibliot.Orient, torn. 2. p. 418.) but Abulpharagius was primate of the Jacobites. 1 The epilepsy, or falling sickness, of Mahomet, is asserted by Theophanes, '/.i,-naras, and the rest of the Greeks; and is greedily swallowed by the gross bigotryof Hottinger, (Hist. Orient, p. 10, 11.) Prideaux, (Life of Mahomet, p. I3.) andMaracci. (torn. 2. Alcoran, (p. 762, 763.) The titles (|A» wrapptd up, tin- covered)of two chapters of the Koran (73, 74.) can hardly be strained to such an interpre­tation; the silence, the ignorance, of the Mahometan commentators, is more con­clusive than the most peremptory denial : and the charitable side is espoused bjrOdkley, (Hist, of the Saracens, torn. 1. p. 301.) Gagnier, (ad Abalfeda, p. 9. Viede Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 118.) and Sale. (Koran, p. 469—174.) r" This poison (more ignominious since it was offered as a test of his propheticknowledge) is frankly confessed by his zealous votaries, Abulfeda (p. 92.) and A1Jannabi. (apud Gagnier, torn. -. p. 286—288.)