OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPIIUS. 215 r out tlieiice all his domestics, and to restore the Babylonians toBatanea again. He also gave it him in charge to take all possi足ble cape that none of his subjects should be guilty of making anyinnovation. Accordingly, upon these directions from the king,he made haste to do what he was commanded. 37. Now there was one Joseph, the -son of a female physician,who excited a great many young men to join with him. He al足so insolently addressed himself to the principal persons at Gamala,and persuaded them to revolt from the king, and take up arms,and gave them hopes that they should, by his means, recovertheir liberty. And some they forced into the service ; and thosethat would not acquiesce in what they had resolved on, theyslew. They also slew Chares, and with him Jesus, one of hiskinsmen, and a brother of Justus of Tiberias, as we have alreadysaid. Those of Gamala also wrote to me, desiring me to sendthem an armed force, and workmen to raise up the walls of theircity ; nor did I reject either of their requests. The region ofGaulonitis did also revolt from the king, as far as the village So-lyma. I also built a wall about Seleucia and Soganni, whichare villages naturally of very great strength. Moreover, I, inlike manner, walled several villages of Upper Galilee, thoughthey were very rocky of themselves. Their names are, Jamnia,and Meroth, and Achabaru. I also fortified, in the Lower Ga足lilee, the cities Taricheae, Tiberias, Sepphoris, and the villages,the Cave of Arbela, Bersobe, Selamin, Jotapata, Caphareccho,and Siggo, and Japha, and Mount Tabor *. I also laid up a greatquantity of corn in these places, and arms withal, that might befor their security afterward. 38. "But the hatred that John, the son of Levi, bore to me, grewnow more violent, while he could not bear my prosperity withpatience. So he proposed to himself, by all means possible, tomake away with me, and built the walls of Gischala, which wasthe place of his nativity. He then sent his brother Simon, andJonathan the son of Sisenna, and about an hundred armed men toJerusalem, to Simon the son of Gamaliel f, in order to persuadehim to induce the commonalty of Jerusalem to take from me ^the government over the Galileans, and to give their suffragesfor conferring that authority upon him. This Simon was ofthe city Jerusalem, and of a very noble family, of the sect of the Pharisees, * Part of these fortifications on Mount Tabor may be those still remaining,and which were Seen lately by Mr Maundrel. See his Travels, p. i iz. t This Gamaliel may be the very same that is mentioned by the rabbins in theMishna in Juchasin and in Porto Mosis, as is observed in the Latin notes. Hemight be also that Gamaliel 11. whose grandfather was Gamaliel I. who is men足tioned Acts, v. 34. and at whose feet St I'aul wai brought up. Acts, xxii. 3. See d. at the year 445.