OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. or Mingrelia,* which* on three sides, is fortified bythe Iberian and Armenian mountains, and whose ma-^ritime coast extends about two hundred miles, fromthe neighbourhood of Trebizond to Dioscurias and theconfines of Circassia. Both the soil and climate are re­laxed by excessive moisture; twenty-eight rivers, besidesthe Phasis and his dependant streams, convey their wa­ters to the sea; and the hollowness of the ground ap­pears to indicate the subterraneous channels betweenthe Euxine and the Caspian. In the fields where wheator barley is sown, the earth is too soft to sustain the ac­tion of the plough; but the gom, a small grain not un­like the millet or coriander seed, supplies the ordinaryfood of the people; and the use of bread is confined tothe prince and his nobles, Yet the vintage is moreplentiful than the harvest; and the bulk of the stems, aswell as the quality of the wine, display the unassistedpowers of nature. The same powers continually tend toovershadow the face of the country with thick forests;the timber of the hills, and the flax of the plains, contri­bute to the abundance of naval stores; the wild and thetame animals, the horse, the ox, and the hog, are re-rmarkably prolific, and the name of the pheasant is ex­pressive of his native habitation on the banks of the Pha­sis. The gold mines to the south of Trebizond, whichare still worked with sufficient profit, were a subject ofnational dispute between Justinian and Chosroes; and itis not unreasonable to believe, that a vein of preciousmetal may be equally diffused through the circle of thehills, although these secret pleasures are neglected by the tuay consult the geographical descriptions of Colchos, by Strabo, (lib. 11. p. 760—?765.) and Pliny. (Hist. Natqr. 6.5.19,&c.) x I shall quote, and have used, three modern descriptions of Mingrelia and theadjacent countries. 1. Of the Pare Archangel! .Lsmberti, (Relations de Theve-not, part 1. p. 31—52. with a map) who has all the knowledge and prejudices of amissionary. 2. Of Chardin: (Voyages en Perse, tom. 1. p. 54. 68—168.) his obser­vations are judicious; and his own adventures in the country are still more instruc­tive than his observations. 3. Of Peyssonnel: (Observations sur les Peuples Bar-hares, p. 49—51. 58.62. 64, 65. 71, &c. and a more recent treatise, Sur le Commercede la Mer Noire, tom. 2. p. 1—53.) be had long resided at Caffa, as consul of France ^and his erudition is less valuable than bis experience.