OCR Output Chap. IV. THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 147 zealous champions of Adherbal's just title were withincredible rapidity convinced, that Hiempsal had been putto death by his subjects on account of his cruelty, andthat the author of the war as to the succession was notJugurtha, but Adherbal. Even the leading men in thesenate were shocked at the scandal; Marcus Scaurus soughtto check it, but in vain. The senate passed over what hadtaken place in silence, and ordained that the two survivingtestamentary heirs should have the kingdom equally dividedbetween them, and that, for the prevention of iresh quarrels,the division should be undertaken by a commission of thesenate. This was done: the consular Lucius Opimius, well-known through his services in setting aside the revolution,had embraced the opportunity of gathering the reward ofhis patriotism, and had got himself placed at the head of thecommission. The division turned out thoroughly in favourof Jugurtha, and not to the disadvantage of the commis­sioners; Cirta (Constantine) the capital with its port ofEusicade (Philippeville) was no doubt given to Adherbal,but by that very arrangement the portion which fell to himwas the eastern part of the kingdom consisting almostwholly of sandy deserts, while Jugurtha obtained the fertileand populous western half (what was afterwards MauretaniaCaesariensis and Sitifensis). This was bad; but matters soon became worse. In order Siege ofto be able under the semblance of self-defence to defraud Cirta.Adherbal of his portion, Jugurtha provoked him to war; butwhen the weak man, rendered wiser by experience, allowedJugurtha's horsemen to ravage his territory unhinderedand contented himself with lodging complaints at Rome,Jugurtha, impatient of ceremony, began the war evenwithout pretext. Adherbal was totally defeated in theregion of the modern Philippeville, and threw himself intohis capital of Cirta in the immediate vicinity. "While thesiege was in progress, and Jugurtha's troops were dailyskirmishing with the numerous Italians who were settled inCirta and who took a more vigorous part in the defence ofthe city than the Africans themselves, the commission de­spatched by the Roman senate on Adherbal's first complaintmade its appearance; composed, of course, of young inexpe­rienced men, such as the government of those times regularly> employed in the ordinary missions of the state. The envoysdemanded, that'.Jugurtha should allow them as deputed by