OCR Output 348 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. x misunderstanding between themselves, and crossing eachoilier in every measure. Some authors affirm, that theyvere defeated at the Algidus, which was the reason thata dictator was named. One titing, nevertheless, is certain,that however ihey differed in other things, they joinedin opposing the senate's motion for naming a dictator,till expresses upon expresses announced the progress ofthe enemy's arms, and the consuls still persisted in theirobstinacy. Q. Servilius Priscus, who had enjoyed thehighest honours of the state with great credit, turning tothe tribunes of the people, told them, ' Since maiters are • now come to this extremity, tribunes, the senate calls'upon you, considering the danger to which the state is'exposed, to exert your authority, and compel the con-'suls to name a dictator. This was no sooner said,than the tribunes, who thought they had now a fair op­portunity of extending their power, withdrew a littte,and returned with the following declaration in name ofthe college: 'It is the pleasure of the tribunes, that the'consuls should obey the senate; and if they persisted'one moment longer in their opposition to the united * desire of that very august order, they would command'them instantly to be laid in jail.' The consuls chose rather to submit to the tribunesthan to the senate; upbraiding ihe fathers, however,that it was by them the consular authority was beiray­ed, and subjected to the power of the tribunes. For, ifa tribune, by his authority, could oblige the consuls todo as he pleased, and if he refused, could also order himto jail, what worse had even a private person to tear?It fell by lot, to Titus Quinctius to name the dictator,for the matter could not otherwise be settled betweenthe consuls. He named his father-in-law, A. Posthu-miu? Tubertius, a man exceedingly haisb and imperious,to the dictatorship, and he, L. Julius, for his general ofthe horse. A vacation was immediately proclaimed, andnothing minded in all the city but preparations for war.The trial of those who pleaded an exemption from the'service was put off till the end of the war; so that theywhose title was doubtful, .suffered themselves to be en-rol-ed. The Hernici and Latins were ordered to furnishtheir quotas, and both paid respect to the dictator's or­ders with all possible diligence.