OCR Output S14 LIVY. the servants of the camp, mounted on the mules, drag­ging boughs of trees, full of leaves, along the ground.Through this obscuration arms and standards wereseen in front, with cavalry closing the rear. This ef­fectually deceived not only the Samnites but the Ro­mans themselves: and the consul confirmed the mis­take by calling out, among the foremost battalions, sothat his voice reached also the enemy, that ' Cominiumwas taken ; and that his victorious colleague was ap­proaching :' bidding his men ' now make haste to com­plete the defeat of the enemy before the other armyshould come in for a share of the glory.' This he saidas he sat on horseback, and then ordered the tribunesand centurions to open passages for the horse. Hehad given previous directions to Trebonius and Caedi-cius that, when they should see him waving the pointof his spear aloft, they should cause the cavalry tocharge the enemy with all possible violence. Everyparticular, as previously concerted, was executed withthe utmost exactness. The passages were opened be­tween the ranks; the cavalry darted through; and,with the points of their spears presented, rushed intothe midst of the enemy's battalions, breaking down theranks wherever they charged. Volumnius and Scipioseconded the blow, and, taking advantage of the ene­my's disorder, made a terrible slaughter. Thus at­tacked, the cohorts called linteatae, regardless of allrestraints from either gods or men, quitted their postsin confusion ; the sworn and the unsworn all fled alike,no longer dreading aught but the Romans. The re­mains of their infantry were driven into the camp atAquilonia. The nobility and cavalry directed theirflight to Bovianum. The horse were pursued by theRoman horse, the infantry by their infantry, while thewings proceeded by different roads; the right to thecamp of the Samnites, the left to the city. Volumniussucceeded first in gaining possession of the camp. Atthe city Scipio met a stouter resistance; not becausethe conquered troops there had gained courage, butbecause walls were a better defence against armed men