OCR Output An. 1507.] 167 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ter made; and as the report of Gideon's vic­tory came to the Israelites, they took theirweapons and pursued their enemies, andovertook them in a certain valley, encom­passed with torrents, a place which thesecould not get over, so they encompassedthem, and slew them all, with their kings,Oreb and Zeeb;* but the remaining captainsled those soldiers that were left, which wereabout eighteen thousand, and pitched theircamp a great way off the Israelites. How­ever, Gideon pursued them with all his army,and joining battle with them, cut off thewhole enemies' army, and took the otherleaders, Zebah and Zalmunna, and madethem captives. Now there were slain in thisbattle of the Midianites, and of their auxil­iaries the Arabians, about a hundred andtwenty thousand; and the Hebrews took agreat prey, gold, and silver, and garments,and camels, and asses: and when Gideon wascome to his own country of Ophrah, he slewthe kings of the Midianites. The tribe of Ephraim, however, was so dis­pleased at the good success of Gideon, thatthey resolved to make war against him; ac­cusing him because he did not tell them ofhis expedition against their enemies.f ButGideon, as a man of temper, and that excelled. in every virtue, pleaded that it was not theresult of his own authority or reasoning thatmade him attack the enemy without them;but that it was the command of God; andthat still the victory belonged to them, aswell as to those that were in the army; andby this method of cooling their passions, he"brought more advantage to the Hebrews,than by the success he had against their ene­mies, for he thereby delivered them from a sedition which was arising among them. Yetdid this tribe afterwards suffer the punish­ment of this their injurious treatment ofGideon, of which we will give an account indue time. Hereupon Gideon would have resigned thegovernment, but being over-persuaded re­tained it forty years;J and distributed justiceto them as the people came to him in theirdifferences; and what he determined was es­teemed valid by all; and when he died hewas buried in his own country of Ophrah. CHAP. VII. ..-'•'-• OF THE JTTDGES WHO SUCCEEDED GIDEON, AND THEIR WARiWITH THE ADJOINING NATIONS. NOW Gideon had seventy sons that werelegitimate, for he had many wives; buthe had also by his concubine Drumah, onethat was spurious, whose name was Abiine-lech,[| who, after his father's death, retired toShecnem, to his mother's relations, for theywere of that place; and when he had gotmoney of such of them as were eminent formany instances of injustice, he came withthem to his father's house, and slew all hisbrethren, except Jotham, for he had the goodfortune to escape and be preserved. ButAbimelech made tho government tyrannical,and constituted himself a lord, to do what hepleased, instead of obeying the laws; and heacted most rigidly against those that were thepatrons of justice. Now when, on a certain time,§ there was apublic festival at Shechem, and all the multi­tude was there gathered together, Jotham hisbrother, whose escape we before related,went up to mount Gerizzim, which hangs over * Jndg. vii. 25. As the language of the Ishmaelites,the Midianites, and the Amalekites, who dwelt in Arabia,was originally the same, because they all descended fromAbraham their common father; so we may infer, thatthere was little or no difference in them at this time.Oreb, in the Hebrew, signifies a crow, and Zeeb, a wolf;and these are no improper words to represent the saga-ciousness and fierceness which should be in two suchgreat commanders. Nor was it an uncommon thing forgreat families in ancient times to derive their names fromsuch like creatures, (hence the Corvini, Gracchi, Aquilini,&c. among the Romans,) either as omens, or monumentsof their undaunted courage and dexterity in militaryachievements. But after all it seems every whit as pro­bable, that these were only nick names, which the Israel­ites gave these two princes of Midian, to denote their fierceness and rapaciousness of prey. Bedford's ScriptureChronology, lib. v. c. 3. and Le Clerc's Commentary, B. t Judg. viii. 1. J From an. 1307 to an. 1267. II What the names of his other sons were, we have nomention made in sacred writ; but the name of this one isparticularly set down, because the following story de­pends upon it; and not only so, but his mother perhapsmight give him this name, which signifies, my father aking, out of pride and arrogance, that she might be lookedupon as the wife of one who was thought to deserve akingdom, though he did not accept it: and it is not im­probable, that the very sense of this might be one meansto inflame the mind of her son afterwards, to affect theroyal dignity. Patrick's Commentary, B. § An. 1267