OCR Output 2SS ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. Aristobulus, and that he hath but a small part of the countryunder him, Aristobulus having taken away the rest from him byforce. He also accused him, that the incursions which had beenmade into their neighbours' countries, and the piracies that hadbeen at sea, were owing to him; and that the nation would nothave revolted, unless Aristobulus had been a man given to vio­lence and disorder: and there were no fewer than a thousandJews, of the best esteem among them, who confirmed this accu­sation: which confirmation was procured by Antipater. ButAristobulus alleged against him, that it was Hyrcanus' owntemper, which was inactive, and on that account contemptible,which caused him to be deprived of the government; and thatfor himself he was necessitated to take it upon him, for fear lestit should be transferred to others. And that as to his title [ofking,] it was no other than what his father had taken [beforehim.] He also called for witnesses of what he said, some per­sons who were both young and insolent: whose purple garments,fine heads of hair, and other ornaments, were detested [by thecourt,] and which they appeared in, not as though they wereto plead their cause in a court of justice, but as if they weremarching in a pompous procession. 3. When Pompey had heard the causes of these two, and hadcondemned Aristobulus for his violent procedure, he thenspake civilly to them, and sent them away; and told them, thatwhen he came again into their country he would settle all theiraffairs, after he had first taken a view of the affairs of the Na-bateans. In the mean time, he ordered them to be quiet; andtreated Aristobulus civilly, lest he should make the nation re­volt, and hinder his return: which yet Aristobulus did; forwithout expecting any further determination, which Pompeyhad promised them, he went to the city Delius, and thencemarched into Judea. 4. At this behaviour Pompey was angry; and taking withhim that army which he was leading against the Nabateans, andthe auxiliaries that came from Damascus, and the other parts ofSyria, with the other Roman legions which he had with him,he made an expedition against Aristobulus: but as he passed byPella, and Scythopolis, he came to Coreae, which is the first en­trance into Judea when one passes over the midland countries,where he came to a most beautiful fortress that was built onthe top of a mountain called Alexandrium, whither Aristobulushad fled, and thence Pompey sent his commands to him, that heshould come to him. Accordingly, at the persuasions of many,that he would not make war with the Romans, he cameclown: and when he had disputed with lu's brother about theright to the government; he went up again to the citadel, as