OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 79 disembarked in the morning and to have been all soldbefore evening—a proof at once how enormous was thenumber of slaves delivered, and how, notwithstanding, thedemand still exceeded the supply. It was no wonder.Already in describing the Roman economy of the sixth cen­tury we have explained that it was based, like all the greatdealings of antiquity generally, on the employment of slaves(ii. 360 et seq. 380). In whatever direction speculationapplied itself, its instrument was invariably man reduced inthe eye of the law to a brute. Trades were in great partcarried on by slaves, so that the proceeds belonged to themaster. The levying of the public revenues in the lowerdepartments was regularly conducted by the slaves of theassociations that leased them. Servile hands performedthe operations of mining, making pitch, and others of asimilar kind; it became early the custom to send herds ofslaves to the Spanish mines, whose superintendents rea­dily received them and paid a high rent for them. Thetending of cattle was universally performed by slaves. Wehave already mentioned the armed, and frequently mounted,slave-herdsmen in the great pastoral districts of Italy (ii.371); and the same sort of pastoral husbandry soon becamein the provinces also a favourite object of Roman specula­tion—Dalmatia, for instance, was hardly acquired (599) 155.when the Roman capitalists began to prosecute the rearingof cattle there on a great scale after the Italian fashion.But far worse in every respect was the plantation systemproper—the cultivation of the fields by a band of slaves notunfrequently branded with iron, who with shackles on theirlegs performed the labours of the field under overseersduring the day, and were locked up together by night inthe common, frequently subterranean, labourers' prison.This plantation system had migrated from the East to Car­thage (ii. 9), and seems to have been brought by the Car­thaginians to Sicily, where, probably for this reason, it ap­pears developed earlier and more fully than in any otherpart of the Roman dominions.* "We find the territory ofLeontini, about 30,000 jujera of arable land, which was leton lease as Roman domain (ii. 149) by the censors, divided * The hybrid Greek name for the workhouse (ergastulum, from 4pyd(o/iai,after the analogy of stabulum, operculum) is an indication that this mode ofImbbandry came to the Romans from a region where the Greek language wasused, but at a period wheu a thorough Hellenic culture was not yet attained.