OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 33 exerted in the cause of innocence and humanity. Suchconspicuous merit was felt and rewarded by a discerningprince; the dignity of Boethius was adorned with thetitles of consul and patrician, and his talents were usefullyemployed in the important station of master of theoffices. Notwithstanding the equal claims of the eastand west, his two sons were created, in their tenderyouth, the consuls of the same year." On the me­morable day of their inauguration, they proceeded insolemn pomp from their palace to the Forum, amidst theapplause of the senate and people; and their joyful father,the true consul of Rome, after pronouncing an orationin the praise of his royal benefactor, distributed a tri­umphal largess in the games of the circus. Prosperousin his fame and fortunes, in his public honours and pri­vate alliances, in the cultivation of science and the con­sciousness of virtue, Bpethius might have been styledhappy, if that precarious epithet could be safely appliedbefore the last term of the life of man. A philosopher, liberal of his wealth and parsimonious His P«tri-of his time, might be insensible to the common allure-° .ments of ambition—the thirst of gold and employment.And some credit may be due to the asseveration of Boe­thius, that he had reluctantly obeyed the divine Plato,who enjoins every virtuous citizen to rescue the statefrom the usurpation of vice and ignorance. For the in­tegrity of his public conduct, he appeals to the memoryof his country. His authority had restrained the prideand oppression of the royal officers, and his eloquencehad delivered Paulianus from the dogs of the palace. Hehad always pitied, and often relieved, the distress of theprovincials, whose fortunes were exhausted by publicand private rapine; and Boethius alone had courage tooppose the tyranny of the barbarians, elated by conquest, 1 Pigi, Maratori, &c. are agreed that Boethius himself was consul in the year510, his two sons in 522, and in 487, perhaps his father. A desire nf ascrihing thelast of these consulships to the philosopher, had perplexed the chronology of his life.In his honours, alliances, children, he celebrates his. own felicity—his past felicity,(p. 109; 110.)