OCR Output THIRD VOLUME. These pillars therefore are images of disterminating, and at thefame time connecting powers, which by their efficacious vigoureternally prevent things on high from being confused with thingsbelow. Hence Atlas, who contains these powers, and who isone of the Tartarean gods about Bacchus, energizes not onlyaccording to a separating power, which is the characteristic ofthe Titans, but likewise according to a connecting power, whichis the characteristic of Jupiter. Page 52. Homer.'] Iliad 2. ver. 592. Page 55. Cabiri.~\ It appears to me, that the celestial twinsare no other than the Curetes, according to their mundane sub­sistence. For the first subsistence of the Curetes is, as we learnfrom Proclus, in that order of gods which is denominated by the,Chaldxan theologists »ofpo; intellectual, and of which Saturn isthe summit. Their next subsistence is among the supermundanegods, in which order they are called the Corylanlei. And theirthird subsistence is doubtless that of the twins. For the Curetesin the Orphic hymns are celebrated as the twins. If this bethe case, and the Cabiri are, according to the Scholiast on Apol-lonius Rhodius, Ceres, Proserpine, Pluto and Mercury, theycannot be the same with either the Curetes, Corybantes, orDioscuri. For the Curetes, according to Proclus, are the guar­dian triad of the intellectual triad, Saturn, Rhea, and Jupiter,and he informs us that one of these Curetes is Minerva. The Co­rybantes, as we learn from the fame author, are the guardians ofthe Coric triad, Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva. And as to theDioscuri, or the twine, they are evidently different from theCabi ri mentioned by the Scholiast. Page 57. The Sphinx.'] The Sphinx, according to LasusHermioneus, was the daughter of Echidna and Typhon; andaccording to Clearchus, (he had the head and hands of a virgin,the body of a dog, a human voice, the tail of a dragon, theclaws of a lion, and the wings of a bird. But it appears tome that the ancients, by the Sphinx, designed to represent to us the