OCR Output 378 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to discover his dream, he was undertaking toinform him of it. For this was not by hisown skill, or on account of his having bettercultivated his undertaking than the rest:"But," said he, "God hath had pity upon us,when we were in danger of death; and whenI prayed for the life of myself, and of those ofmy own nation, he hath manifested to meboth the dream and the interpretation thereof.For I was not less concerned for thy glory,than for the sorrow that we were by theecondemned to die; while thou didst so un­justly command men both good and excellentin themselves to be put to death, when thouenjoined them to do what was entirely abovethe reach of wisdom; and required of themwhat was only the work of God. Whereforeas thou in thy sleep was solicitous concerningthose that should succeed thee in the govern­ment of the whole world, God was desirousto shew thee all those that should reign afterthee; and to that end exhibited to thee thefollowing dream:—Thou seemedst. to see agreat image standing before thee; the headof which was of gold, the shoulders and armsof silver, the belly and the thighs of brass;but the legs and the feet of iron.* Thouthen sawest a stone broken off from a moun­tain, which fell upon the image, and threw itdown and brake it to pieces, and did notpermit any part of it to remain whole; but the gold, the silver, the iron, and the brass,became smaller than meal; which, upon theblast of a violent wind, was forcibly carriedaway, and scattered abroad; but the stoneincreased to such a degree, that the wholeearth beneath it seemed to be filled there­with. This is the dream which thou sawest,and its interpretation is as follows:—Thehead of gold denotes thee, and the kings ofBabylon that have been before thee. Butthe two hands and arms signify that thy go­vernment shall be dissolved by two kings.But another king that shall come from thewest, armed with brass, shall destroy thatgovernment. And another government thatshall be like unto iron, shall put an end to thepower of the former, and shall have dominionover all the earth; on account of the natureof iron, which is stronger than that of gold,of silver, and brass." Daniel also declaredthe meaning of fthe stone to the king; but Ido not think it proper to relate it; since Ihave only undertaken to describe things past,or things present; but not the things that arefuture. Yet if any one be so desirous ofknowing truth, as not to wave such points ofcuriosity, and cannot curb his inclination forunderstanding the uncertainties of futurity,and whether they will happen or not, let himdiligently read the book of Daniel, which hewill find among the sacred writings. * By these different emblems of metals and stone, Godintended to signify to Nebuchadnezzar the several em­pires that were to be in the world. The Assyrian orChaldean is represented by gold, because it was the firstand the most magnificent, if not the most extensive, andNebuchadnezzar, being then upon the throne, is said to behead of it. That of silver is the Persian, founded byCyrus, upon the ruins of the Chaldean, but inferior to theChaldean in its duration at least, if not in its extent. Thatof brass is the Grecian, founded by Alexander, upon theruins of the Persian, and its character is, that it shouldbear rule over all the earth, Daniel ii. 39. which wasverified in its great founder; for, upon his return fromIndia to Babylon, the ambassadors of almost all the knownparts of the world resorted thither, to pay their homageand acknowledgment of his dominion. That of iron is theRoman empire, which is extinguished by its breaking inpieces, and subduing all things, verse 40. For whilst itwas in its full strength and vigour, under its consuls andfirst emperors, it brought under its dominion all the king­doms and states that were then subsisting in Europe, Africa,and a great part of Asia; but, from that time, it became amixture of iron and clay. Its emperors proved most ofthem vicious and corrupt, either by their tyranny makingthemselves hateful to their subjects, or, by their folliesand vices, contemptible. Lastly, that of the stone out of the mountain, is the fifth monarchy, or the kingdom ofthe Messiah's; which against all the power and policy ofthe Roman empire, prevailed, not by an external force,but by the powerful preaching of the gospel, to the sup­pression and defeat of wickedness and impiety, idolatry,and superstition, and it shall stand for ever, and never bedestroyed, Daniel ii. 44. which can be said of no otherkingdom but that of Jesus Christ, which, for these seven­teen hundred years and upwards, has withstood the vio­lence of persecutions, and all other contrivances formedagainst it, and has the sure promises of its AlmightyFounder on its side, that the gates of hell should not pre­vail against it, Matt. xvi. 18. Calmefs Commentary. B.t This is a most remarkable passage in Josephus, con­cerning the stone cut out of the mountain, and destroyingthe image, which he intimated to be a prophecy of futurity;and probably not safe for him to exclaim, as belonging tothe destruction of the Roman empire, by Jesus Christ,the true Messiah of the Jews. Take here also the wordsof Havercamp. "The place referred to by Josephus,"says he, is " chap. 10. Nor is this to be wondered at,that he would not meddle with things future. For hehad no mind to provoke the Romans, by speaking of thedestruction of the city, which they called the eternal city."Note v. on X. 11.