OCR Output 182 THE PELOPOVNESIAN WAR. a faction they had within. But a contrary party, havingsent in good time to Olynthus, had procured from thence anaid of heavy-armed and other force for their protection.These even made a sally out of Spartolus, and forced theAthenians to a battle under the walls of the town. Theheavy-armed Chalcideans, with some of their auxiliaries, aredefeated by the Athenians, and retire into Spartolus. Thehorse and light-armed Chalcideans get the better of thehorse and light-armed Athenians; but they had with thema small number of targeteers from the province called Cru-sis. On the first joining of battle other targeteers came totheir assistance from Olynthus. The light-armed of Spar­tolus seeing this reinforcement just come up, and reflectingthat they had received no loss before, with reanimated cou­rage again charge the Athenians, in conjunction with theGhalcidean horse, and the fresh reinforcement. The Athe­nians retire to the two companies which they had left toguard the baggage. Here they drew up again, and when­ever they thought proper to charge, the enemy fell back ;when they retreated from the charge, the enemy pressedupon and infested them with missive weapons. The Ghal­cidean horse rode up where they thought they could breakthem, and falling in without fear of a repulse, put the Athe­nians to flight, and pursued them to a great distance. TheAthenians fly for refuge to Potidaea ; and afterwards, obtain­ing a truce to fetch off their dead, return with their shatteredarmy to Athens. In this action they lost four hundred andthirty men, and all their commanders. The Chalcideansand Bottiaeans erected a trophy, and having taken propercare of their dead; separated to their own cities. Not long after this, in the same summer, the Ambraciotsand Chaonians, who aimed at the total reduction of Acar-nania, and to compass a general defection there from theAthenians, prevailed upon the Lacedaemonians to supplythem with shipping from their confederate cities, and tosend a thousand heavy-armed into Acarnania. They told