OCR Output HISTORY OP ROME. BOOK XXXI. 341 posted bodies of armed men at the gates, and on therampart, and from this safe situation looked with adegree of confidence on the enemy, as long as theycontinued quiet. But, as soon as the troops of theMacedonians began to move, and to advance to therampart, in order of battle, and ready for an assault,they all quickly abandoned their posts, and fled throughthe opposite part of the camp, to the eminence wherethe Athamanians were stationed. During their flightin this confusion many of the jEtolians were slain,and many made prisoners. Philip doubted not that,had there been daylight enough remaining, he shouldhave been able to make himself master of the camp ofthe Athamanians also; but the day being spent in thefight, and in plundering the camp afterwards, he satdown under the eminence, in the adjacent plain, de­termined to attack the enemy at the first dawn. Butthe jEtolians, under the same apprehensions whichhad made them desert their camp, dispersed, and fledduring the following night. Amynander was of thegreatest service; for, by his directions, the Athama­nians, who were acquainted with the roads, conductedthem into jEtolia, whilst the Macedonians pursuedthem over the highest mountains through unknownpaths. In this disorderly flight a few, missing theirway, fell into the hands of the Macedonian horsemen,whom Philip, at the first light, on seeing the eminenceabandoned, had sent to infest them on their march. 43. About the same time also, Athenagoras, one ofthe king's generals, overtaking the Dardanians in theirretreat homeward, at first threw their rear into dis­order: but these unexpectedly facing about, and form­ing their line, the fight became like a regular engage­ment. When the Dardanians began again to advance,the Macedonian cavalry and light infantry harassedthose who had no troops of that kind to aid them, andwere, besides, burdened with unwieldy arms. Theground too favored the assailants: very few wereslain, but many wounded; none were taken, becausethey rarely quit their ranks, but both fight and retreat