OCR Output THE HISTORY t'ie YOling woman as his flave, and notrait to any demand which fhould be made, of her"Y.R. 305. being.left at liberty until thedecifion of the fuit, think-B. c. 447. ing tfat the abfence of the damfel's father left the. fltteft opportunity for the injury which he meditated.As the young woman came into the Forum, for thefchools of learning were held there in fheds, thisminifler of the decemvir's luft laid his hand on her,and affirming that " fhe was a flave, and born of a"woman who was his flave," ordered her to followhim; threatening, if fhe refufed, to drag her awayby force. While the girl ftood motionlefs throughfright and aftonifhment, a crowd was collected bythe cries of her nurfe, who implored the protection.of the citizens. The popular names of her fatherVirginius, and her fpoufe Icilius, were heard onevery fide. Their acquaintances were engaged infavour of the maiden, by their regard for them; andthe multitude in general, by the heinoufnefs of the• proceeding. She was now fecured from force, whenthe claimant faid, "there was no occafion for raifing"a mob, he was proceeding by law, not by force,"and fummoned the maiden to a court of juftice. Shebeing advifed, by thofe who appeared in her favouryto follow him, they arrived at the tribunal of Ap-pius. The claimant rehearfed the concerted farce,,before the judge, who was well acquainted with it>.having been himlelf the contriver of the plot; allegedthat " the girl was born in his houfe, and had beea."clandeftinely removed from thence to the houfe"of Virginius, who pretended to be her father ;.'* that of this he had fufficient evidence,, and would"prove it even to the latisfaction of Virgin'ius"himff If, the principat fufterer in the cafe; and it"was reafonable," he added,. " that in the mean-"time, the lervant fhould remain in the cufhody of"her inafter." The advocates for the young wo­man pleading, that Virginius was abfent on bufinefsof the ftate, and would attend in two days time,. if .1 he