OCR Output 23ft THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. " of mere necessity dependent on the Athenians: that, uh-" less he changed his conduct, he would bring over but few" of his enemies into friendship, but turn a far greater num- " ber of friends into enemies." He was wrought upon by this remonstrance, and set all the Chians and others, whomhe had yet reserved, at liberty. For those, who had at anytime descried this squadron, had never thought of flying, butboldly approached it as certainly Athenian. They really hadno ground to imagine, that whilst the Athenians were mas­ters of the sea, a Peloponnesian fleet should dare to put overto Ionia. From Ephesus, Alcidas made the best of his way, or ra­ther fled outright; for he had been discovered by the Sa-laminian and the Paralus, whilst he lay at anchor nearClaros. These vessels happened at that time to be on acourse from Athens. He was now apprehensive of a chace,and so stretched out to sea; determining, if possible, not tomake any land again till he had reached Peloponnesus.Notice of him came first to Paches and the Athenians fromErythraea; it was then repeated from all parts. For as thecountry of Ionia is quite unfortified, the sight of the Pelo-ponnesians on that coast, had struck a panic, lest, thoughtheir intention was not to continue there, they should atonce assault and destroy their cities. The Salatninian* alsoand Paralus, after they had descried him at Claros, camevoluntarily to notify the tidings. Paches set upon the chacewith warmth, and pursued it as far as the isle of Latmos.But there giving up all hope of reaching him, he turnedback again for his post; and since he had not been able to ! • These two vessels seem to have been the packets or yachts of the Stateof Athens. Their force was small in comparison of the ships of war, asthey were chiefly designed for nimbleness and expedition. They carriedambassadors to and fro, went on all public errands, whether of a civil orreligious nature, and transported magistrates and generals to and from theirposts. They were navigated only by free-born citizens of Athens, who be-sides receiving more pay, esteemed it also a greater honour to serve onboard these vessels, which were sacred.