OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 237 helmets. Though the horses of Germany were neither beautiful,swift, nor practised in the skilful evolutions of the Roman manage,several of the nations obtained renown by their cavalry; but, ingeneral, the principal strength of the Germans consisted in their in­fantry 7I, -which was drawn up in several deep columns, according andofdisci-to the distinction of tribes and families. Impatient of fatigue or plmc*delay, these half-armed warriors rushed to battle with dissonantshouts and disordered ranks; and sometimes by the effort of nativevalour, prevailed over the constrained and more artificial bravery ofthe Roman mercenaries. But as the barbarians poured forth theirwhole fouls on the first- onset; they knew not how to rally or toretire. A repulse was a- sure defeat; and a defeat was most com­monly total destruction. When we recollect the complete armourof the Roman soldiers, their discipline, exercises, evolutions, fortifiedcamps, and military engines, it appears a just matter of surprisehow the naked and unassisted valour of the barbarians could dare toencounter in the field, the strength of the legions, and the varioustroops of the auxiliaries, which seconded their operations. Thecontest was too unequal, till the introduction of luxury had ener­vated the vigour, and a spirit of disobedience and sedition hadrelaxed the discipline, of the Roman armies. The introduction-ofbarbarian auxiliaries into those armies, was a measure attendedwith very obvious danger?, as it might gradually instruct the Ger­mans in the arts of war and of policy. Although they wereadmitted in small numbers and with the strictest precaution, theexample of Civilis might convince the Romans, that the danger wasnot imaginary, and that their precautions were not always suffi­cient '*. During the civil wars- that followed the death of Nero,,that artful and intrepid Batavian, whom his enemies condescendedto compare with Hannibal and Sertorius formed a great design offreedom and ambition. Eight Batavian cohorts, renowned in thewars of Britain and Italy, repaired to his standard.. He introduced 1 an