OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, abuse, or even the use of wine was chastised by fourscore strokes on the soles ofthe feet, and in the fervour of their primitive zeal, many secret sinners revealedtheir fault, and solicited their punishment. After some hesitation, the commandof the army was delegated to Abu Obeidah, one of the fugitives of Mecca andcompanions of Mahomet; whose zeal and devotion were assuaged, without beingabated, by the singular mildness and benevolence of his temper. But in all theemergencies of war, the soldiers demanded the superior genius of Caled; andwhoever might be the choice of the prince, the sword of God was both in factand fame the foremost leader of the Saracens. He obeyed without reluctance;he was consulted without jealousy; and such was the spirit of the man, or ratherof the times, that Caled professed his readiness to serve under the banner of thefaith, though it were in the hands of a child or an enemy. Glory, and riches, anddominion, were indeed promised to the victorious Mussulman; but he was care­fully instructed, that if the goods of this life were his only incitement, they like­wise would be his only reward. One of the fifteen provinces of Syria, the cultivated lands to the eastward ofthe Jordan, had been decorated by Roman vanity with the name of Arabiai{Y)and the first arms of the Saracens were justified by the semblance of a nationalright. The country was enriched by the various benefits of trade; by the vigi­lance of the emperors it was covered with a line of forts; and the populous citiesof Gerasa, Philadelphia, and Bosra,(2) were secure, at least from a surprise, bythe solid structure of their walls. The last of these cities was the eighteenthstation of Medina: the road was familiar to the caravans of Hejaz and Irak, whoannually visited this plenteous market of the province and the desert: the per­petual jealousy of the Arabs had trained the inhabitants to arms; and twelvethousand horse could sally from the gates of Bosra, an appellation which signi­fies, in the Syriac language, a strong tower of defence. Encouraged by their firstsuccess against the open towns and flying parties of the borders, a detachment offour thousand Moslems presumed to summon and attack the fortress of Bosra.They were oppressed by the numbers of the Syrians; they were saved by thepresence of Caled, with fifteen hundred horse; he blamed the enterprise, restoredthe battle, and rescued his friend, the venerable Serjabil, who had vainly invokedthe unity of God and the promise of the apostle. After a short repose, the Mos­lems performed their ablutions with sand instead of water;(3) ana the morningprayer was recited by Caled before they mounted on horseback. Confident oftheir strength, the people of Bosra threw open their gates, drew their forces intothe plain, and swore to die in the defence of their religion. But a religion ofpeace was incapable of withstanding the fanatic ciy of Fight, fightl Paradise,paradise.' that re-echoed in the ranks of the Saracens; and the uproar of thetown, the ringing of bells,(4) and the exclamations of the priests and monks, in­creased the dismay and disorder of the Christians. With the loss of two hundredand thirty men, the Arabs remained masters of the field; and the ramparts ofBosra, in expectation of human or divine aid, were crowded with holy crosses andconsecrated banners. The governor Romanus had recommended an early sub­mission ; despised by the people, and degraded from his office, he still retainedthe desire and opportunity of revenge. In a nocturnal interview, he informedthe enemy of a subterraneous passage from his house under the wall of the city:the son of the caliph, with a hundred volunteers, were committed to the faith ofthis new ally, and their successful intrepidity gave an easy entrance to their com­panions. After Caled had imposed the terms of servitude and tribute, the apos­tate or convert avowed in the assembly of the people his meritorious treason."I renounce your society," said Romanus, " both in this world, and the world to (!) Huic Arabia est conserta, ex alio latere Nahathrcis contiirua; opima varietate commerciorum, castrisqueoppleta validis et castellis, quae ad repellendos gentium vicinarum excursus, solicitudo pervigil neterum per op-portnnos saltus erexit et cautei. Amraian. Marcellin. 14. 8. He land. Palestin. torn. i. p. 85, 86. (2) With Gerasa and Philadelphia, Ammianus praises the fortifications of Bosra firmitate cautissitnas. Theydeserted the same praise in the time of Abnlfeda, (Tabid. Syria;, p. 99.) who describes the city, the metropolis-of Hawran (Auranitis,) four days' journey from Damascus. The Hebrew etymology I learn from Reland. Pa­lestin. torn. ii. p. 666. (3) The apostle of a desert and an army was obliged to allow this ready succedaneum for water; (Koran, c. 3.p. 66. C. 5. p. 83.) but the Arabian and Persian casuists have embarrassed his free permission with many nicetiesand distinction;. Reland. de Relic;. Mohammed, lib. i. p. 82, 83. Chardin, Voyages en Perse, torn, iv.) (4) The belli rung! Oekley, vol. i. p. 38. Yet I much doubt whether this expression can be justified by thetext of Al Wakidi, or the practice of the times. Ad Grzcos, says the learned Ducangc, (Glossar. med. etinnrn. Grsecitat. torn. i. p. 774.) campanarum usus serius transit et etiam num rarissimus est. The otdest ex­ample which he can find m the Byzantine writers is of the vear 1040; but the Venetians pretend, that they in­troduced bells at Constantinople in the ninth century.