OCR Output 230 NOTES. and defeats. He has been censured by some as a Machiavelli or a LatinXenophon, tl,e author of a Tiberiopaedia, whose design was to teach the art ottyranny in its perfection, and by others as the rigid, malignant and misanthrop­ic censor of princes and of mankind. Such contrad,ctory accusations maywell be left to balance and neutralize each other. No candid reader of Tacituscan regard him as indiscriminate either in censure or in praise.* His worstcharacters are not without their virtues, and his best show their imperfections.He denies, or holds in suspense, crimes which the public voice unanimouslycharged upon the emperors, whom he treats with the most unsparing severity,and has not made either Tiberius or Domitian so bad, as some other writers ofhis age. In short, he manifestly intends to hold the balance of truth and jus­tice with an even hand, and few have better carried out the intention neitherto " extenuate aught or set down aught in malice." It is to be regretted thatTacitus did not take the pains to inform himself better touching the Jews andChristians. But in this he erred only in common with all the great writersand great men of his country (cf. Notes, 5,2), who were born and bred to de-spiso and ridicule the Jews—ti hate and psrsecute the Christians.t Moreover,notwithstanding his national prejudices, Tacitus expressly attests the inno­cence of the Christians, who suffered under Nero, and commiserates theirsufferings (Ann. 15, 44), while ho narrates not a little that is true and com­mendable of the Jews, and ascribes to the whole nation a creed touching thedivine nature more pure, more true, more sublime than had ever entered thethoughts of any but the wisest sages of Greece and Rome (His. 5, 5). Tacitusundertakes to write both his Histories and his Annals for the express reason,that no impartial history of that period had been written (His. 1,1; Ann. 1,1),but between the parasites and the bitter enemies of those in power, truthand posterity had been forgotten. For himself, he professes perfect candor.From Galba.Otho, and Vitellius, he had received neither benefits nor injuries.The Flavian dynasty was now extinct, and, though they had all conferredhonors upon him, he could speak of them all, unswayed by favor and unawedby fear. And nobly, it must be confessed, nobly does he redeem his pledge.He does not spare the besetting sin of the soldier-like and truly imperial Ves­pasian (His. 1, 50; 2, 5; 2, 84, et al.). He does not conceal the youthful vicesof Titus, "delight of the human race" (His. 2,2; 5,11). Still less does hewithhold his severest animadversions from Domitian (Agr. 39-43), whilo hebears grateful testimony to the honors which he had received from him (Ann.2,11; His. 1,1). He had abundant means of knowing the facts which herecorded. Besides the extensive personal knowledge of which we have alreadyspoken, he had access to the public archives, to the records of the senate, tothe Acta Diurna or public journals of the city, to the Imperial Commentaries,to the histories of Coesar, Livy, Pliny the Elder, and many other documents orwriters, whom he consults as authorities, but whose statements he thoroughlysifts and seldom if ever adopts on mere trust. J In short, an air of sincerity,truthfulness and earnestness, a lofty appreciation of the purity and dignity of * Compare on this subject the Life of Tacitus in Agricola and Germania, p. 11,t In like manner, Roman writers have all done injustice to the Carthaginians who might well repeat the complaint of the lions, that the men wrote the history,t See a collection of such authorities and examples of the caution with whicfc he weighs them in Ituperti's Prolegomena, also in Boettichcr and others.