OCR Output 326 THE DECLINE AND FALL honour, and to express his wonder, that they should elect his ageand infirmities to succeed the martial vigour of Aurelian. "Are"these limbs, conscript fathers! fitted to sustain the weight of ar-"mour, or to practise the exercises of the camp? The variety of"climates, and the hardships of a military life, would soon op-'* press a feeble constitution, which subsists only by the most tender"management. My exhausted strength scarcely enables me to"discharge the duty of a senator; how insufficient would it prove*' to the arduous labours of war and government. Can you fup-"pose, that the legions will respect a weak old man, whose days'* have been spent in the shade of peace and retirement? Canu you desire that I should ever find reason to regret the favourable"opinion of the senate 10?"and accepts The reluctance of Tacitus, and it might possibly be sincere, was the purple. t .er encountered by the affectionate obstinacy of the senate. Five hun­dred voices repeated at once, in eloquent confusion,' that the greases}of the Roman princes, Numa, Trajan, Hadrian, and the Antonines,had ascended the throne in a very advanced season of life; that themind, not the body, a sovereign, not a soldier, was the object oftheir choice; and that they expected from him no more than toguide by his wisdom the valour of the legions. These preslingthough tumultuary instances, were seconded by a more regularoration of Metius Falconius, the next on the consular bench toTacitus himself. He reminded the assembly of the evils whichRome had endured from the vices of headstrong and capriciousyouths, congratulated them on the election of a virtuous and ex­perienced senator, and, with a manly, though perhaps a selfish,freedom, exhorted Tacitus to remember the reasons of his elevation,and to seek a successor, not in his own family, but in the republic.The speech of Falconius was enforced by a general acclamation.The emperor elect submitted to the authority of his country, andreceived the voluntary homage of his equals. The judgment of the senate