OCR Output THERMIM THF.BMUM. 1163 » loner tenable, embarked on board their shipsod retired without further lots. (Paus. x. 19—22.)n att 207, when the Romans were carrying on warn Greece acainst Philip, king of Macedonia, thetaoiians, who were then in alliance with the;,mana, fortified Thermopylae with a ditch and ainput, but Philip shortly afterwanla forced hisray through the pass, (Liv. xxviii. 5, 7: Polyb.- 41.) In n. c. 181, Anliochos, who was then at>ar with the Romano, took up his position at Ther-^vlae, which lie fortified with a double rampart,i)i:rh, and a wall ; and, in order to prevent thelawawj from crossing the mountains and descendingsal his rear, he garrisoned with 2000 Aetoliana the\rrt summits, named Callidromum, Teichios, andMontis- The consul Acilius sent some troopsraia*t these fortresses anil at the same time at-irknl the army of Antiochus in the pass. While the battle was going on in the pass, the Roman de­tachment, which had succeeded in taking Callidro­mum, appeared upon the heights, threatening theking's rear, in consequence of which Antiochus im­mediately took to flight. (Liv. xxxvi. 15—19.)There are still remainsof three Hellenic fortressesupon the heights above Thermopylae, which probablyrepresent the three places mentioned by Livy. Appian{Syr. 17) speaks only of Callidromum and Teichius,but Strabo (ix. p. 428) mentions Rhoduntia also.Procopins relates that the fortifications of Thermo­pylae were restored by Justinian (</. Aid. iv. 2). (On the topography of Thermopylae, see the excel­lent account of Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp. 5,seq., 40, seq.; there is also a treatise by Gordon,Account of tiro Visits to the Anopaea or the Iliijh-landt above Thermopylae, Athens, 1838, which thewriter of this article has not seen.) MAP OF I I! I.I.M' ■ I - V J w. AMD TIIK SL'MtOL'XUlNO COINTUY. A A. ADavUl deposits.a>t. Prrsctit line of coast,M. Present course of the Spercheius.cc. A'.imt line of coast,drf. Present course of the Dyras.ft. Pr—sot course of the Atupiis. TITERMUM, THERMUS or THERMA (to 8s>-t, Pol r. 8: t4 H(>,ua. Strab. x. p. 463; Pol v. 7;>«tei. Staph. B.S.V.: F.th. Bipfuos: Vlotho), theef city of Aetolia during the flourishing period ofArtolian League, and the place where the meet­'s <i the league were usually held and an annualNral celebrated. It possessed a celebrated templeApollo, in connection with which the festival was^aaly celebrated. It was situated in the veryir! of Aetolia, N. of the lake Trichonis, and on aAt of Ml Panaetolium ( Viena). It was con-rred inaccessible to an army, and from the strengthits situation was regarded as a place of refuge,I as it were, the Acropolis of all Aetolia. TheJ to it ran from Metapa. on the lake Trichonis,»urb the village of Pamphia. The city wastaut CO stadia from Metapa, and 30 from Pam-a . and from the latter place the road was veryIf and dangerous, running along a narrow crestK praeipices on each side. It was, however,Jii»*<l by Philip V., king of Macedonia, in hisin B c. 218. The Aetolians, ff. Track of the Persians under Hydamcs.g. Hot spring's at the western entrance, or the false Thermopylae,a. Hot spring? at the eastern entrance, or the real Thermopylae,t'. Pbocian wall. who had never imagined that Philip would havepenetrated so far into their country, had depositedhere all their treasures, the whole of which nowfell into the hands of the king, together with a vastquantity of arms and armour. He carried off themost valuable part of the spoil, and burnt all therest, among which were more than 15,000 suits ofarmour. Not content with this, he set fire to thesacred buildings, to retaliate for the destruction ofDiam and Dodona. He also defaced all the worksof art, and threw down all the statues, which werenot less than 2000 in number, only sparing those ofthe Gods. (Pol. v. 6—9, 13.) A few years after­wards, when the AetolianB had aided with the Ro­mans, Philip again surprised Thermits (about B. a206), when he destroyed everything which hadescaped his ravages in his first attack. (Pol. xi. 4.)We have no further details of the history of Ther-mum. Polybius alludes, in one or two other pas­sages (xviii. 31, xxviii. 4), to the meetings of theleague held there. In the former of these passagesLivy (xxxiii. 35) has misunderstood the words Tj|r