OCR Output 110 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. pronounced five lessons, and composed seven hundredlines. His sagacious mind explored the deepest questionsof morals and metaphysics, and he ventured to urge eigh­teen arguments against the Christian doctrine of thecreation of the world. But, in the intervals of study, hepersonally conversed with Pan, iEsculapius, and Miner­va, in whose mysteries he was secretly initiated, andwhose prostrate statues he adored; in the devout per­suasion that the philosopher, who is a citizen of the uni­verse, should be the priest of its various deities. Aneclipse of the sun announced his approaching end; andhis life, with that of his scholar Isidore,p compiled bytwo of their most learned disciples, exhibits a deplora­ble picture of the second childhood of human reason.hu snc- Yet the golden chain, as it was fondly styled, of thea. d. 435 Platonic succession, continued forty-four years from the~"°29- death of Proclus, to the edict of Justinian,q which im­posed a perpetual silence on the schools of Athens, andexcited the grief and indignation of the few remainingvotaries of Grecian science and superstition. Sevenfriends and philosophers, Diogenes and Hermias, Eula-lius and Priscian, Damascius, Isidore, and Simplicius,who dissented from the religion of their sovereign, em­braced the resolution of seeking in a foreign land thefreedom which was denied in their native country. Theyhad heard, and they credulously believed, that the re­public of Plato was realized in the despotic governmentof Persia, and that a patriot king reigned over the hap­piest and most virtuous of nations. They were soon as­tonished by the natural discovery that Persia resembledthe other countries of the globe; that Chosroes, whoaffected the name of a philosopher, was vain, cruel, andambitious; that bigotry, and a spirit of intolerance, pre- P The life of Isidore was composed by Damascius, (apud Photiam, cod. 243. p.1028—1076.) See the last age of the Pagao philosophers io Brncker, (ton. 2. p.341—351.) 1 The suppression of the schools of Athens is recorded by John Malala, (tom. i.p. 187. sur Declo Cos. Sol.) and an anonymous Chronicle in the Vatican library,(apud Aleman. p. 106/)