OCR Output 404 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. "petual concourse of distant nations, and the armsxxi. « an(l discipline Gf the troops. Indeed (continued "Athanaric), the emperor of the Romans is a god"upon earth; and the presumptuous man, who dares"to lift his hand against him, is guilty of his own"blood." The Gothic king did not long enjoy thissplendid and honourable reception; and, as temper­ance was not the virtue of his nation, it may justlybe suspected, that his mortal disease was contractedamidst the pleasures of the Imperial banquets. Butthe policy of Theodosius derived more solid benefitfrom the death, than he could have expected fromthe most faithful services, of his ally. The funeral ofAthanaric was performed with solemn rites in thecapital of the East; a stately monument was erectedto his memory; and his whole army, won by theliberal courtesy, and decent grief, of Theodosius,inlisted under the standard of the Roman empire*.The submission of so great a body of the Visigothswas productive of the most salutary consequences;and the mixed influence of force, of reason, and ofcorruption, became every day more powerful, andmore extensive. Each independent chieftain hastenedto obtain a separate treaty, from the apprehension thatan obstinate delay might expose him, alone and un­protected, to the revenge, or justice, of the conqueror.The general, or rather the final, capitulation of theGoths, may be dated four years, one month, anda.d. 382. twenty-five days, after the defeat and death of the Oct. 3. T 7. 1 emperor Valens.invasion 'phe provinces of the Danube had been already re- and defeat L * of the lieved from the oppressive weight of the Gruthungi,o/ostrol or Ostrogoths, by the voluntary retreat of Alatheus386"'Octo, am^ SaPnrax, whose restless spirit had prompted thember. to seek new scenes of rapine and glory. Their de- * Jornandes, c. xxviii. p. 650. Even Zosimus (1. iv. p. 246.) is compelled toapprove the generosity of Theodosius, so honourable to himself, and so beneficialto the public.