OCR Output 376 FLAVIUSJOSEPHCS [B. I. lus, the priest of Astarte, who reigned thirty-two years, andlived sixty-eight years; he was succeeded by his son Bade-zorus, who lived forty-five years, and reigned six years: hewas succeeded by Matgenus his son; he lived thirty-two years,and reigned nine years : Pygmalion succeeded him ; he livedfifty-six years, and reigned forty-seven years. Now, in thoseventh year of his reign, his sister fled away from him, andbuilt the city of Carthage in Libya." So the whole time fromthe reign of Hirom till the building of Carthage amounts tothe sum of one hundred fifty-five years and eight months.Since, then, the temple was built at Jerusalem in the twelfthyear of the reign of Hirom, there were from the building ofthe temple until the building of Carthage one hundred forty-three years and eight months. Wherefore, what occasion isthere for alleging any more testimonies out of the Phoenicianhistories [on the behalf of our nation,] since what I have saidis so thoroughly confirmed already ? And to be sure our an­cestors came into this country long before the building of thetemple; for it was not till we had gotten possession of thewhole land by war that wo built our temple. And this is thepoint that I have clearly proved out of our sacred writings inmy Antiquiiies. 19. I will now relate what hath been written concerning usin the Chaldean histories, which records have a great agree­ment with our books in other things also. Berosus shall bewitness to what I say; he was by birth a Chaldean, wellknown by the learned on account of his publication of thoChaldean books of astronomy and philosophy among theGreeks. This Berosus, therefore, following the most ancientrecords of that nation, gives us a history of the deluge of wa­ters that then happened, and of the destruction of mankindthereby, and agrees with Moses's narration thereof. He alsogives us an account of that ark wherein Noah, the origin ofour race, was preserved, when it was brought to the highestpart of the Armenian mountains: after which he gives us acatalogue of the posterity of Noah, and adds the years of theirchronology, and at length comes down to Nebolassar, who wasking of Babylon and of the Chaldeans. And when he was