OCR Output 180 ROMAN EMPIRE. of Christ ;k the perfect impression of his face on alinen, with which he gratified the faith of the royalstranger, who had invoked his healing power, andoffered the strong city of Edessa to protect him againstthe malice of the Jews. The ignorance of the primi­tive church is explained by the long imprisonment ofthe image in a niche of the wall, from whence, after anoblivion of five hundred years, it was released by someprudent bishop, and seasonably presented to the devo­tion of the times. Its first and most glorious exploitwas the deliverance of the city from the arms of Chos-roes Nushirvan; and it was soon revered as a pledgeof the divine promise, that Edessa should never betaken by a foreign enemy. It is true, indeed, that thetext of Procopius ascribes the double deliverance ofEdessa to the wealth and valour of her citizens, whopurchased the absence, and repelled the assaults, of thePersian monarch. He was ignorant, the profane histo­rian, of the testimony which he is compelled to deliverin the ecclesiastical page of Evagrius, that the Palla­dium was exposed on the rampart; and that the water,which had been sprinkled on the holy face, instead ofquenching, added new fuel to the flames of the besieged.After this important service, the image of Edessa waspreserved with respect and gratitude; and if the Arme­nians rejected the legend, the more credulous Greeksadored the similitude, which was not the work of anymortal pencil, but the immediate creation of the divineoriginal. The style and sentiments of a Byzantinehymn will declare how far their worship was removedfrom the grossest idolatry. How can we with mortaleyes contemplate this image, whose celestial splendour the k From the silence of James of Sarug, (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, p. f89. 318.)and the testimony of Evagrins, (Hist. Eccles. lib. 4. c. 27,) I conclude (hat thisfable was invented between the years 521 and 594, most probably after the siegeof Kdrssu in 540. (Asseman, torn. 1. p. 416. Procopius, de Bell. Persic, lib. 2.)It u the sword and buckler of Gregory II. (in Epist. 1. and Leon. Isaur. Council,torn. 8. p. 656, 657.) of John Damascenus, (Opera, torn. 1. p. (81. edit. Lequien)and of the second Nicene council. (Actio, 5. p. 1030.) The most perfect edi­tion may be found in Cedrenns. (Compend. p. 175—178.)