OCR Output 470 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. gathered a greater army together than theyhad before, and came against Jonathan. Butas soon as he was informed of their coming,he went suddenly to meet them, to the coun­try of Hamath: for he resolved to give themno opportunity of coming into Judea. So he fritched his camp at fifty furlongs' distancerom the enemy; and sent out spies to takea view of their camp, and after what mannerthey were encamped. When his spies hadgiven him full information, and had seizedupon some of them by night, who told himthe enemy would soon attack him; he pro­vided for his security, and placed watchmenbeyond his camp, and kept all his forcesarmed all night. And he gave them a chargeto be of good courage, and to have theirminds prepared to fight in the night time, ifthey should be obliged so to do; lest theirenemies' designs should seem concealed fromthem. But when Demetrius's commanderswere informed that Jonathan knew whatthey intended, their counsels were disorder­ed; and it alarmed them to find that the ene­my had discovered their intentions. Nor didthey expect to overcome them any otherway, now they had failed in the snares theyhad laid for them. For should they hazardan open battle, they did not think they shouldbe a match for Jonathan's army. So theyresolved to flee: and having lighted manyfires, that when the enemy saw them, theymight suppose they were there still, they re­tired. But when Jonathan came to give thembattle in the morning, and found their campdeserted, and understood they were fled, hepursued them. Yet could not he overtakethem, for they had already passed over theriver Eleutherus; and were out of danger.So when Jonathan returned thence, he wentinto Arabia, and fought against the *Naba-teans; and drove away a great deal of theirprey, and took many captives, and came toDamascus: and there sold off that he hadtaken. About the same time it was that Si- mon, his brother, went over all Judea, andPalestine, as far as Ascalon; and fortified thestrong holds; and when he had made themvery strong both in the edifices erected, andin the garrisons placed in them, he came toJoppa: and when he had taken it, he broughta great garrison into it. For he heard thatthe people of Joppa were disposed to deliverup the city to Demetrius's generals. When Simon and Jonathan had finishedthese affairs, they returned to Jerusalem.There Jonathan gathered all the people to­gether, and took counsel to restore the wallsof Jerusalem, and to rebuild the wall thatencompassed the temple, which had beenthrown down; and to make the places ad­joining stronger by very high towers: andbesides that to build another wall in themidst of the city, in order to exclude themarket-place from the garrison which was inthe citadel; and by that means to hinderthem from any plenty of provisions: andmoreover to make the fortresses that were inthe country much stronger and more defensi­ble than they were before. And when thesethings were approved of by the multitude,as rightly proposed, Jonathan himself tookcare of the building that belonged to thecity; and sent Simon to make the fortressesin the country more secure than formerly.But Demetrius passed over the Euphrates,and came into Mesopotamia; as desirous tocontain that country still, as well as Babylon:and when he should have obtained the do­minion of the upper provinces, to lay a foun­dation for recovering his entire kingdom.For those Greeks and Macedonians whodwelt there, frequently sent ambassadors tohim, and promised, that if he would come tothem, they would deliver themselves up tohim, and assist him in fighting against fArsa-ces, the king of the Parthians. So he waselevated with these hopes, and came hastilyto them; as having resolved that, if he hadonce overthrown the Parthians, and gotten * Since the Nabatean Arabians were now in amity withthe Jews ; ch. 1. perhaps the reading in 1 Mace. xii. 31. maybe the truer: where these people are called Zabadeans.Otherwise Grotius's conjecture, set down by Dr. Hudson,must be allowed, that the Nabateans not now followingAntiochus, the son of Alexander Balas; but his and Jona­than's enemy Demetrius Nicator, Jonathan endeavouredby force to oblige them to come into his measures, and toacknowledge his friend Antiochus as king of Syria. t This king, who was of the famous race of Arsaces, isboth here, and 1 Mace. xiv. 2. called by the family nameArsaces: but Appian says, his proper name was Phraates.He is here also called by Josephus the king of the Par­thians, as the Greeks used to call them; but by the elderauthor of the first book of Maccabees, the king of thePersians and Medes; according to the language of theeastern nations. See Authent. Rec. Pt. II. page 1108.