OCR Output n;4 MOTYA. MOSTENI. mistake as well U we can. It is possible that bothrivers were called Moaa; and Mosclla or Mosula, asl'lorus lias it, seems to be a diminutive of Mosa, butthat reading ia somewhat doubtful. (Floras, iii. 10.ed. Dak.) There is no variation in Caesar's textin the passage where he speaks of the confluence ofthe Rbenm and the Mosa. (Caesar, ed. Schneider.)Several of the affluents of the Mosel are mentionedin the ancient writers, and chiefly l>y Ausonius: theSura (Sow), Prooaea (/'rum), Nemeaa (A'wni),Gelbis (A7//), Erubrua (Hnrer), Lesura (£eaer)fDrahonus (/'rem*), Saravus (.Sa«r), and Saluiona(jSahn\ The Masella is celebrated in one of the longerpoems nf Ausonius, who wrote in the 4th centurya. i). The vine at that time clothed the slopes ofthe hills and the cliffs which bound this deep andpicturesque river valley in its course below Trier: "Qua sublimit apex longo super ardua tractu,Kt rapes el aprica jugi, flex usque sinusqueVitibus adaurgunt naturaUoua thcatro." (v. 154.) There is a German metrical translation of this poemby Mocking with notes. Tht Mos&l rises on tlie western face of the Voggti,and its upper course is in the hill country, formedby tlie offsets of the mountains. It then enters theplain of Lorraine, and after passing Tullum ( Tout),it is joined by the Sfewthe on the right bank.From the junction of the Meurih* it is navigable,and has a general north course past Divodurum(Mttz\ and ThiimriUe, to Augusta Trevirorum(7ViVt or Treves). From Trier its general courseis about NXE. with many great bends, and in abed deep sunk below the adjacent country, to itsjunction with the Rhine at Cobienz. The wholecourse of the river is somewhat leasj than 300 miles.It is navigable for steamboats in some seasons asfar as AUtz. A Roman governor in Gallia proposed to unitethe Mosella and the Arar (Stu'nte) by a canal, andthus to effect a navigation from (he Mediterraneanto the North Sea [Gai.i.ia Transalpina, Vol. I.p. 907.] [II. f,] MOSTE'Nl (MotfTifvoi), a town of Lydia in theHyrcantan plain, south-east of Thyatira, and on theroad between this latter town and Sard is. In A. t>.17, Mosteoi and many other towns of that countrywere visited by a fearful earthquake. (Ptol, v. 2.§10; Tac. Ann. \i. 17 ; Hierocl. p. 671, where itis erroneously called Muttt^ or M6rrrtva; Coucil.Chalo. p. 240. where it bears the name Movffr-f}v7).)Its exact site is unknown. (Comp. Rasche, Lex,Num. iii. 1. p. 869, &c) [L. S.] MOSYCHLUS. [Lkmnos.] MOSYNOECI, MOSSYNOECI, MOSYNI, MOS­SY NI (MoffOVoucoi, MoiTvvroiKot, Movvvoi, Moir-crurot), a tribe on the coast of Pontns,occupying thedistrict between the Tibareni ami Ifacronea, and con­taining the towns of CSRASUS and PlfARKACIA.The M'isynocci were a brave and warlike [K'ople, butare at the same time said to have been the rudestand moat uncivilised among all the tribes of AsiaMinor. Many of their peculiar customs are noticedby the Greeks, who planted colonies in their districts.They are said to have lived on trees and in towers.(Strab. xii. p. 549.) Their kings, it is said, werefleeted by the people, and dwelt in an isolated towerrising somewhat above the houses of his subjects,who watched his proceedings closely, and providedhim with all that was necessary; but when he did anything thai displeased them, they rtopprd tawsupplies, and left him to die of starvation. (X«a,A nab. v. 4, § 26; Apoll.,n. Rliod. ii. 1027; I Hoixiv. 30; Bcymnus, Fraffm. 1Mb) Taey uiei ticut off the heads of the enemies they had slain, iaitarry them about amid dances and songs, (laaAnab. iv. 4. § 17; v. 4. § 15.) It is afeo rtfedthat they knew nothing of nmrriage (Xen. JaJv. 4. § 33; Diod. /. c.), and that they prnenaa;tattooed their bodies. Kating and drinking Htheir greatest happiness, whence the children rftfcwealthy among them were regularly fattened »a1salt dolphins and chestnuts, until they were afctttas they were tall (Xen. Anab. v. 4. § 32). Taajanus consisted of heavy spears, six cubits in kngtiwith round or globular handles; large shitsb iwicker-work covered with ox-hides ; and leatawiwooden helmets, the top of which was adiroedaia crest of hair, (Xen. t. c, v. 4. § 12; Heraa.*J78.) The fourth chapter of the fifth book of Jmphon'a Anabasis is full of curious informationthis singular people. (Comp. also Strab. xi. p.Hecat. t*ragm. 193; Steph. B. ». r.; Herod."Sevlax, p. 33.; Amm. Marc. xxri. 8 ; Orph. Aff}740; Mela, i. 19; Tibull. iv. 1. 146; Curtiejjj4. 17; Plin. vi. 4; Yal. Place, v. 152; DitmyaJ766.) [UiMOTE'NE. [Oram.]MO TYA (Morvrj: Eth. MorvaTot: SLa city on the W. coast of Sicily, between Dreaajjand Lilybaeum. It was situated on a smallabout three quarters of a mile (six stadia)mainland, to which it was joined by an aicauseway. (Diod. xiv. 4S.) It was origilcolony of the Phoenicians, who wyre food of I ing similar sites, and probably in the first i I merely a commercial station or emporium, bidually rose to be a flourishing and important I I The Greeks, however, according to their 'assigned it a legendary origin, and derived rfrom a woman named Motya, whom they ca I with the fables concerning Hercules. (St«»ph.It passrd. in common with the other l'r.< *>nictaai I tlements in Sicily, at a later period under the galment or dependency of Carthage, whence ~"calls it a Carthaginian colony; but it iathat this is not strictly correct. (Thuc, vi.xiv. 47.) As the Greek colonies in Sicily incfllin numbers and importance the Phoenidually abandoned their settlements in theneighbourhood of the new comers, andthemselves in the three principal colonies ojPanonnus, and Motya. (Thuc. I. c.) Tbathese, from its proximity to Carthage i i it ! portune situation for communication with Afrawell as the natural strength of its position, hone of the chief strongholds of the CarthmciaaMwell as one of the most important of Imercial cities in the island. (Dind. xiv.appears to have held, in both these rrsncjajsame position which was attained atby Lilybaeum. [Lilybaeum.] NotvriJthese accounts of its early importance aning condition, the name of Motya is rarelyin history until just before the |«riod'oafinorable siege. It is first mentioned by(a/>.Steph. B. s. v.). and Thucydidesthe chief colonies of the Phoenicians instill subsisted at the period of the* Atdition, n. c. 415. (Thuc. vi. 2.) A fei(b. c. 409) when the Carthaginian