OCR Output 382 FLAVIUSJOSEPnUS [B. I. nation unknown of old to several of the Grecian cities, and,indeed, was thought worthy of imitation by some of them.This is declared by Theophrastus, in his writings concerninglaws; for he says, " that the laws of the Tyrians forbid mento swear foreign oaths." Among which he enumerates someothers, and particularly that called Corban, which oath canonly be found among the Jews, and declares what a man maycall a tiling devoted to God. Nor, indeed, was Herodotus ofHalicarnassus unacquainted with our nation, but mentions itafter a way of his own, when he saith thus, in the secondbook concerning the Colehians. His words are these: —" The only people who were circumeised in their privy mem­bers originally, were the Colehians, the Egyptians, and theEthiopians; but the Phoenicians, and those Syrians that arein Palestine, confess that they learned it from the Egyptians.And for those Syrians who live about the rivers Thermodonand Parthenius, and their neighbors the Macrones, they saythey have lately learned it from the Colehians ; for these arethe only people that are circumeised among mankind, andappear to have done the very same thing with the Egyptians.But as for the Egyptians and Ethiopians themselves, I amnot able to say which of them received it from the other."This, therefore, is what Herodotus says, that " the Syriansthat are in Palestine are circumeised." But there are no in­habitants of Palestine that are circumeised excepting theJews; and, therefore, it must be his knowledge of them thatenabled him to speak so much concerning them. Cherilus' 1 Whether these verses of Cherilus, the heathen poet, in the days ofXerxes, belong to the Solyrai in Pisidia, that were near a small lake, or tothe Jews that dwelt on the Solymean or Jerusalem mountains, near thegreat and broad lake Asphaltitis, that were a strange people, and spake thePhoenician tongue, is not agreed on by the learned. It is yet certain thatJosephus hero, and Eusebius, Prop. ix. 9, p. 412, took them to be Jews,and I confess I cannot but very much incline to the same opinion. Theother Solymi were not a strange people, but heathen idolators, like thoother part of Xerxes's army; and that these spake the Phoenician tongueis next to impossible, as the Jews certainly did; nor is there the least evi­dence for it elsewhere. Nor was the lake adjoining to the mountains of thoSolymi at all large or broad in comparison of the Jewish lake Asphaltitis:nor, indeed, were these so considerable a people as the Jews, nor so likely