OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 249 body had retained for more than a hundred and fifty years,they were far from including a capitulation with the actualinsurgents; they were on the contrary intended partly toretain the communities that were wavering and threateningto revolt, partly to draw over as many deserters as possiblefrom the hostile ranks. To what extent these laws andespecially the most important of them—that of Caesar—wereapplied, cannot be accurately stated, as we are only able tospecify in general terms the extent of the insurrection atthe time when the law was issued. The chief result at anyrate was, that the communities hitherto Latin,—not only thesurvivors of the old Latin confederacy, such as Tibur andPraeneste, but more especially the Latin colonies, with theexception of the few that passed over to the insurgents—were thereby admitted to Roman citizenship. Besides, thelaw was applied to the isolated towns of the allies betweenthe Po and the Apennines, such as Ravenna, to a number ofEtruscan towns, and to the allied cities that remained faithfulin Southern Italy, such as Nuceria and Neapolis. It wasnatural that individual communities, hitherto specially privi­leged, should hesitate as to the acceptance of the fran­chise; that Neapolis, for example, should scruple to give upits former treaty with Rome— which guaranteed to itscitizens exemption from land-service and their Greek con­stitution, and perhaps domanial advantages besides—for thevery restricted privileges of new burgesses. It was probablyin virtue of conventions concluded on account of thesescruples, that this city, as well as Rhegium and perhapsother Greek communities in Italy, even after their admissionto Roman citizenship retained unchanged their former com­munal constitution and Greek as their official language.At all events, as a consequence of these laws, the circle ofRoman burgesses was extraordinarily enlarged by the merg­ing into it of numerous and important civic communitiesscattered from the Sicilian straits to the Po; and, further, thecountry between the Po and the Alps was, by the bestowalof the privileges of the most favoured allies, as it were in­vested with the legal reversion of full citizenship. On the strength of these concessions to the wavering Second yearcommunities, the Romans resumed with fresh courage the of the war.conflict against the insurgent districts. They had pulleddown as much of the existing political institutions as seemednecessary to arrest the progress of the conflagration; the