OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 339 bians fled; and so great a slaughter was made upon their beingrouted, that they were not only killed by their enemies, butbecame the authors of their own deaths also, and were troddendown by the multitude, and the great current of people in dis­order, and were destroyed by their own armour; so five thou­sand men lay dead upon the spot, while the rest of the multi­tude soon ran within the bulwark [for safety,] but had no firmhope of safety, by reason of their want of necessaries, and es­pecially of water. The Jews pursued them; but could not getin with them, but sat round about the bulwark, and watchedany assistance that would get in to them, and prevented any there,that had a mind to it, from running away. 5. When the Arabians were in these circumstances, they sentambassadors to Herod, in the first place to propose terms of ac­commodation, and after that to offer him, so pressing was theirthirst upon them, to undergo whatsoever he pleased, if he wouldfree them from their present distress; but he would admit of noambassadors, of no price of redemption, nor of any other mode­rate terms whatever, being very desirous to revenge those unjustactions which they had been guilty of towards his nation. Sothey were necessitated by other motives, and particularly by theirthirst, to come out, and deliver themselves up to him, to be car­ried away captives; and in five days' time, the number of fourthousand were taken prisoners, while all the rest resolved to makea sally upon their enemies, and to fight it out with them, choos­ing rather, if so it must be, to die therein, than to perish gradu­ally and ingloriously. When they had taken this resolution,they came out of their trenches, but could no way sustain thefight, being too much disabled, both in mind and body, and hav­ing not room to exert themselves, and thought it an advantageto bekilled, and a misery to survive; so at the first onset there fellabout seven thousand of them, after which stroke, they let all thecourage they had put on before fall, and stood amazed at Herod's'warlike spirit under his own calamities; so for the future, theyyielded, and made him ruler of their nation; whereupon he wasgreatly elevated at so seasonable a success, and returned hometaking great authority upon him, on account of so bold and glo­rious an expedition as he had made. CHAP. VI. Haw Herod slew Hyrcanus, and then hasted away to Ctesar, andobtained the kingdom from him also; and how a little time af­terward, he entertained Ctxsar in a most honourable manner. $ 1. .HEROD'S other affairs were now very prosperous; andhe was not to be easily assaulted on any side. Yet did thereVOL. iI. u u' 25