OCR Output An. 36.] 539 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Antony, he resolved that he would not en­tirely permit the child, or Alexandra, to betreated dishonourably. But his wife Mari-amne urged him vehemently to restore thehigh-priesthood to her brother; and he judgedit was for his advantage so to do; because ifhe once had that dignity, he could not go outof the country. So he called his friends to­gether, and told them, that "Alexandra pri­vately conspired against his royal authority,and endeavoured, by means of Cleopatra, soto bring it about, that he might be deprived ofthe government; and that by Antony's meansthis youth might have the management ofpublic affairs in his stead. And that this pro­cedure of hers was unjust; since she wouldat the same time deprive her daughter of thedignity she now had, and would bring dis­turbances upon the kingdom; for which hehad taken a great deal of pains, and had got­ten it with extraordinary hazards: that yet,while he well remembered her wicked prac­tices, he would not leave off doing what wasright himself; but would even now give theyouth the high-priesthood: and that he for­merly set up Ananelus, because Aristobuluswas then so very young a child." Now whenhe had said this, not at random, but as hethought with the best discretion he had, inorder to deceive the women, and those friendswhom he had taken to consult withal; Alex­andra, out of the great joy she had at this un­expected promise, and out of fear from thesuspicions she lay under, burst into tears, andmade the following apology for herself, andsaid: that "As to the high-priesthood, shewas very much concerned for the disgraceher son was under, and so did her utmost en­deavours to procure it for him: but that asto the kingdom, she had made no attempts;and that if it were offered her for her sonshe would not accept it. And that now shewould be satisfied with her son's dignity,while he himself held the civil government; * When Josephus says here, in his Greek copies, thatthis Ananelus, the new high-priest, was of the stock of thehigh-priests, we must remember that the Latin version,in all copies, has not a syllable of any such clause. Andsince, in all copies, he had been just telling us, that hewas a priest of an obscure family or character, chap. 2, itis not probable, that he could so soon say that he was ofthe stock of the high-priests. However Josephus heremakes a remarkable observation, that this Ananelus wasthe third that was ever unjustly and wickedly turned outvoL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46. and she had thereby the security that arosefrom his peculiar ability in governing, to allthe remainder of her family: that she wasnow overcome by his benefits, and thankfullyaccepted of this honour shewn by him to herson; and that she would hereafter be entirelyobedient. And she desired him to excuseher, if the nobility of her family, and thatfreedom of acting which she thought thatallowed her, had made her act too precipi­tately and imprudently in this matter." Sowhen they had spoken thus to one another,they came to an agreement; and all suspi­cions seemed to have vanished away. CHAP. III. ARISTOBULUS IS HADE HIGH-PRIEST, BUT AFTERWARDSMURDERED BY THE ORDER OF HEROD, WHO APOLOGIZESTO ANTONY. ALSO CONCERNING JOSEPH AND MAR1AMNE. HEROD now took the high-priesthoodfrom Ananelus; who, as we said be­fore, was not of this country, but one of thoseJews that had been carried captive beyondEuphrates. For there were many thousandsof this people who had been carried captive,and dwelt about Babylonia; whence Ananeluscame. He was one* of the stock of the high-priests; and had been of old a particularfriend of Herod's. And when he was firstmade king, he conferred that dignity uponhim; and now put him out of it again, in or­der to quiet the troubles in his family; thoughwhat he did was plainly unlawful. For onno preceding occasion was any one that hadonce been in that dignity deprived of it. Itwas Antiochus Epiphanes who first brakethat law, and deprived Jesus, and madehis brother Onias high-priest in his stead.Aristobulus was the second that did so; andtook that dignity from his brother Hyrcanus.And this Herod was the third; who took thathigh office from Ananelus, and gave it to thisyoung man Aristobulus. of the high-priesthood, by the civil power. No king orgovernor having ventured to do so, that Josephus knewof, but that heathen tyrant and persecutor Antiochus Epi­phanes; that barbarous parricide Aristobulus, the firstthat assumed royal authority among the Maccabees; andthis tyrant, king Herod the Great: although afterwardthat infamous practice became frequent, till the very de­struction of Jerusalem: when the office of high-priesthoodwas at an end. 4 P