OCR Output CHAP. XH.] OF T*^E ROMAN EMPIRE. J30, and ninety-six for the prefect himself, fifty for each ofhis vicegerents; and the rigid definition of their feesand salaries was more effectual to conform the right,than to prevent the abuse. These magistrates mightbe oppressive, but they were not idle: and the subtlequestions of justice and revenue were infinitely propa­gated under the new government, which professed torevive the freedom and equity of the Roman republic.The cqnqueror was solicitous to exact a prompt andplentiful supply from his African subjects; and he allow­ed them to claim, even in the third degree, and fromthe collateral line, the houses and lands of which theirfamilies had been unjustly despoiled by the Vandals.After the departure of Belisarius, who acted by a highand special commission, no ordinary provision was madefor a master-general of the forces; but the office ofpraetorian prefect was intrusted to a soldier ; the ci-yil and military powers were united, according to thepractice of Justinian, in the chief governor; and therepresentative of the emperor in Africa, as well as inItaly, was soon distinguished by the appellation ofExarch." Yet the conquest of Africa was imperfect, till her for- Distressmer sovereign was delivered, either alive or dead, into Thy of1"1the hands of the Romans. Doubtful of the event, Ge- J^bum*.limer had given secret orders that a part of his treasure —".ieshould be transported to Spain, where he hoped to find asecure refuge at the court of the king of the Visigoths.§ujt these intentions were disappointed by accident, trea­chery, and the indefatigable pursuit of his enemies, whointercepted his flight from the sea-shore, and chased theunfortunate monarch, with some faithful followers, to theinaccessible mountain of Papua/ in the inland country * The African laws of Justinian are illustrated by his German hiographer. (Cod.lib. 1. tit. 27. Novell. 36,37.131". Vit. Justinian, p.349—377.) . t Monnf Papua is placed by d'Anville, (tom. 3. p. 92. and Tabttl. Imp. Rom. Oc­cident) near Hippo Regius and the sea ; yet this situation ill agrees with the longpursuit beypnd ljippo, and the words of Procopius, (lib. 2. c. 4.) iv tm; Nmi/wiSib; %t­ L 2