OCR Output 4.111 NILU8. NILUPOLIS. with Seneca's description of the Nili Paludes is'• immensss quamm exitus nee incolae noversnt neesperare quisquam potest." [Nilus.] [W. B. I).] NILUTOLIS (N«iAouwoXn, Ptol. t. 5. § S7;Steph. B. : v.: NeiXoiroAtrni), was a city of MiddleAegypt, built upon an island of the Nile, in theHeracloopolite nome, and about eight miles NE. ofHeracleopolis Magna. Nilupolis is sometimes calledsimply Nilns, and appears to be the town mentionedunder the latter name by Hecataeus ( Fragment.277). It was existing as late as the 5th centuryA. I)., since it is mentioned in the Acts of the Coun­cil of Ephesus, a. d. 430. [W. B. D.] N1LUS (o N.;»»i), the river Nile in Egypt. Ofall the more important rivers of the globe known tothe Greek and Roman writers, the Nile was thatwhich from the remotest periods arrested their live­liest curiosity and attention. It ranked with themas neat in magnitude to the Ganges and the Indus,and as surpassing the Danube in the length of itscourse and the volume of its waters. (Strab. xv.p. 702.) Its physical phenomena and the peculiarcivilisation of the races inhabiting its banks attractedalike the historian, the mathematician, the satirist,and the romance-writer: Herodotus and Diodorus,Eratosthenes and Strabo, Lucian and Holiodorus,expatiate on its marvels; and as Aegypt was theresort of the scientific men of Greece in general, theNile was more accurately surveyed and describedthan any other river of the earth. The word Nilus, if it were not indigenous, was ofSemitic origin, and probably transmitted to theGreeks by the Phoenicians. Its epithets in variouslanguages—e. g. the Hebrew Sihhor (/suizA, xxiii.3; Jerem. ii. 18), the Aegyptian Chemi, and theGreek utAas (Sorvius, ad Virgil. Georg. iv. 291)—point to the same peculiarity of its waters, the hueimparted by their dark slime. The Hebrews en­titled the Nile Nahal-Misraim, or river of Aegypt;but the natives called it simply p-iero (whence pro­bably the Nubian hier) or the river (i. e. of rivers).Lydus (cfe Mcniibus, c. 8) says that it was some­times termed Has or dark; and Pliny (v. 9. s. 9;comp. Dionys. Perieg. v. 213) observes, somewhatvaguely, that in Aethiopia the river was called Siris,and did not acquire the appellation of Nilus beforeit reached Syeno. With few exceptions, however,the Greeks recognised the name of Nilus as far southas Meroe; and above that mesopotamian region theymerely doubted to which of its tributaries they shouldassign the principal name. Homer, indeed (Od. iii.300, iv. 477, &c), calls the river Aegyptus, fromthe appellation of the land which it intersects. ButHesiod ( Theug. 338) and Hecataeus (Fragm. 279—280), and succeeding poets and historians uniformlydesignate the river of Aegypt as the Nile. It is unnecessary to dwell on a theory at one timereceived, but generally discredited by the ablest ofthe ancient geographers—that the Nile rose inLower Mauretania, not far from the Western Ocean(Juba, ap. l'lin. v. 9. s. 10; Dion Cass. lxxv. 13;bolin. c. 35); that it flowed in an easterly direction;was engulphad by the sands of the Sahdra; re­appeared as the Nigir; again sank in the earth,and came to light once more near the Great Lakeof JMbaga as the proper Nile. Historically, the Nile derives its principal import­ance from the civilisation, to which it contributed somaterially, of the races inhabiting its shores, fromthe S. of Meroe northwards to the Mediterranean.But for geographical purposes it is necessary to ex- amine its course, in the first instance, through leaknown regions, and to ascertain, if pconbkt, ws> aof its feeders above Meroe was regarded by the an­cients as the true Nile. The course of the streammay be divided into three heads: — (1) the riverS. of Meroe; (2) between Meroe and Syew: and(3) between Syene, or 1'hilae, and the Mediter­ranean. (1.) Tie Kile above Meroe.—Tha aoonubriefly described the Nile as springing from mar-In(Nili Paludes) at the foot of the Mountain* tftkeMoon. But as all the rivers which flow north** dfrom the Abyssinian highlands rise from Upoues,and generally expand themselves into broad mar*!**,this description is too vague. Neither is it dearwhether they regarded the White River, or the Bit*,or the Astaboras (Tacaae), it the channel of tintrue Nile, The names of rivers are often given ca­priciously i it by no means follows that tbarj animposed upon the principal arm or tributary; aaihence we can assign neither to the AsUpus Bar a»the White River, usually considered as the suastream, the distinction of being absolutely the " tra*Nile." The Nile, as Strabo sagaciously remarks (xi. p.493), was well known because it was tbe chant«iof active commerce; and his observation, if sj.pl*4to its southern portions, may lead us to tb* rhatmslwhich was really regarded as the principal rivereven in remotest ages. The stream must frequentedand accessible to navigation, and whuae banks werethe most thickly peopled, was doubt leas the one wbjr Learliest attracted attention, and this we believe :»have been the AsUpus {Bahr^LAtrtk, or BlmeRiver). As the sources both of the Blue River and of theBahr-el-Abiad or the White Hirer are uncertain, itwill be proper to examine these streams above theirpoint of junction near the modern military statinat A'Wiura, lat. 1 J° 87'N., long. 33° L Th»Astaboras (Tacaue) may fur the present be dis­missed, both as an inferior tributary, and me b*a*wthe meeting of the two main streams. The White River, which lias been often d™;.ruled as " the true Nile," baa st no period been eit-«ra road for traffic nor favourable to the settUmrcn ofman on its banks. It is rather an immenx la-:t«Qthan a river, is often from 5 to 7 miles in bitu i.and its sides are in general so low as to be coveredat times with alluvial depiait to a divfanra) affrom 2 to 3 miles beyond the stream. On esshores there is neither any town, nor any traduxaof there having ever been one; nor indeed, formany leagues up tbe stream, do there uccur anyspots suited either to the habitation of men, to pas­ture, or to tillage. On the contrary, it is rvprr»m:edby travellers much in the same terms in which Se­neca (.War. Quaest. vi. 8) speaks of la* SuaPaludes, as seen by Nero's surveyors. Tha latterare described by the Human philosopher as * asv-mensas paludes, quarum exitus nee i-r-trr acvo-rant, nee sperare quitquaui potest, ita imphvi'-a*aquis herbae sunt," &c: the former by mmt ex­plorers at "an interminable tea of gnus," "a tri«istagnant marsh," Ik. As tha Whit* Rirar Mststapproaches the higher table-land of the &, its basksbecome less depressed, and are inhabit**; Witthe weedy lagoons extend nearly 100 uulaa s>W.of Khartum. But if we trace upwards the channel of lb* HimRiver, a totally different spectacle