OCR Output an. 2928.] 19 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the regions of the air on high, excepting theblood, for therein is the life. But I will giveyou a sign that I have laid aside my anger bymy bow;"* whereby is meant the rainbow:for they determined that the rainbow was thebow of God. And when God had said andpromised thus, he went away. Now when Noah had lived three hundredand fifty years after the flood, and all thattime happily, he died; being nine hundredand fifty years old, but let no one, upon com­paring the lives of the ancients with our lives,and with the few years which we now live, (think that what we have said of them is false;or make the shortness of our lives at presentan argument that they did not attain to solong a duration of life; for those ancientswere beloved of God, and lately made byGod himself; and, because their food wasthen fitter for the prolongation of life, mightwell live so great a number of years. Andbesides, God afforded them a longer time oflife on account of their virtue, and the good I use they made of it in astronomical and ge­ometrical discoveries, which would not haveafforded them time for foretelling the pe­riods of the stars, unless they had lived sixhundred years, for the great year is com­pleted in that interval. Now I have for witnesses to what I havesaid all those that have written antiquities,both among the Greeks and Barbarians; foreven Manetho, who wrote the Egyptian His­tory; and Berosus, who collected the Chal­dean Monuments; and Mochus, and Hestiseus, . and besides these, Hieronymus, the Egyptian,and those that compose the Phoenician His­tory, agree to what I here say. Hesiodf also,and Hecataeus, and Hellanicus, and Aculsi-laus; and besides these, Ephorus and Nico-laus relate, that the ancients lived a thou­sand years. But, as to these matters, letevery one look upon them as they think fit. CHAP. IV. OF THE TOWER OF BABYLON, AND THE CONFUSION OFTONGUES. HE sons of Noah were three, Shem,Japhet, and Ham, born one hundred * Gen. far. 13. t Since the Latin copies have here generally Isiodorus,fcstead of Hesiodus; Vossius, and perhaps Hudson, in- vot. I. No. 2- T years before the deluge. These first of alldescended from the mountains into the plains,and fixed their habitation there and per­suaded others, who were greatly afraid ofthe lower grounds on account of the flood,and so were very loth to come down from thehigher places, to venture to follow their ex­ample. Now the plain in which they firstdwelt was called Shinar. God also com­manded them to send colonies abroad, for thethorough peopling of the earth, that theymight not raise seditions among themselves,but might cultivate a great part of the earth,and enjoy its fruits after a plentiful manner;but they were so ill-instructed, that they didnot obey God, for which reason they fell intocalamities, and were made sensible by expe­rience of what sin they had been guilty of; forwhen they flourished with a numerous youth,God admonished them again to send out colo­nies; but they imagining that the prosperitythey enjoyed was not derived from the favourof God, but supposing that their own powerwas the proper cause of the plentiful con­dition they were in, did not obey him. Nay,they added to this disobedience to the divinewill, the suspicion that they were ordered tosend out separate colonies, that, being dividedasunder, they might the more easily be op­pressed. Now it was Nimrod who excited them tosuch an affront and contempt of God; he wasthe grandson of Ham, the son of Noah, a boldman, and of great strength of hand. He per­suaded them not to ascribe it to God, as if itwere through his means that they were happy,but to believe that it was their own couragethat procured that happiness. He also gra­dually changed the government into tyranny,seeing no other method of turning men fromthe fear of God, but to bring them into a con­stant dependence on his own power. Healso said, " He would be revenged on God, ifhe should have a mind to drown the worldagain; for that he would build a tower toohigh for the waters to be able to reach, andthat he would avenge himself on God fordestroying their fore-fathers. Now the multitude were very ready to fol­low the determination of Nimrod, and to clined to think the writer here meant was Isidorus Chara-cenus, who produced instances of kings who reigned alongtime. But since the Greek copies, have constantly Hesiod,