OCR Output JERUSALEM,23 JERUSALEM. signed to virions uses. The Pronaus was, however,30 cubits wider, 15 on the north, and 15 on tliesouth, giving it a total length of 1U0 cubits, wbidi,with a width of only 11 cubits, must have pre­sented the proportions of a Narthex in a Byzantinechurch. Its interior height was 90 cubits, and,whiie the chambers on the sides of the Temple roseonly to the height of 60 cubits, there was an ad­ditional story of 40 cubits above the Sanctuary,also occupied by chambers, rising into a clerestoryof the same elevation as the vestibule. The front of the Temple was plated with gold,and reflected back the beams of the rising sun withduxling effect; and, where it was not encrustedwith gold, it was exceedingly white. Some of thestones of which it was constructed were 45 cubitslong, 5 deep, and 6 wide. East of the Altar was the Court of the Priests,135 cubits long and 11 wide; and, east of thatagain, was the Court of Israel, of the same dimen­sions. Kast of this was the Court of the Women,l-'l,"* cubits square, considerably below the level ofthe former, to which there was au ascent of 15semicircular steps to the magnificent pates of Corin­thian brass, 50 cubits in height, with doors of 40cubits, so ponderous that they could witli diffi­culty be shut by 20 men, the spontaneous open­ing of which was one of the portents of the ap-pnarliing destruction of the Temple, mentioned byj'sephus (BelL Jud. vi. 5. § 3), and repeated byTacitus (But v. 13). Thus much must suffice for this most veneratedseat of the iiebrew worship from the age of Solomonuntil the final destruction of the Jewish polity. But,in order to complete the survey, it will be necessaryto notice the Acropolis, which occupied the north­west angle of the Temple enclosure, and which was,says tlie historian, the fortress of the Temple, as theTemple was of the city. Its original name wasBans, until Herod the Great, having greatly en­larged and beautified it, changed its name to Antonia,in honour of his friend Mark Antony. It combinedthe strength of a castle with the magnificence of apalace, and was like a city in extent,—comprehend­ing within its walls not only spacious apartments,but courts and camping ground for soldiers. It wasMtuated on an elevated rock, which was faced withtlabs of smooth stone, upon which was raised abreastwork of 3 cubits high, within which was thebuilding, rising to a height of 40 cubits. It hadturrets at its f-iur corners, three of them 50 cubitshigh, but that at the south-east angle was 70 cubits,and commanded a view of the whole Temple. Itcommunicated with tlie northern and western cloistersof the Temple at the angle of the area, by flights ofsteps for the convenience of the garrison which usuallyoccuf ied this commanding position; and it is a re­markable and interesting coincidence, that the site ofthe official residence of the Roman procurator and hisgaard is now occupied by the Seraiyah, or officialresident* of the Turkish Pasha and his guard: forthere can be no question of the identity of tlie site,tince the native rock here, as at Mippicus, still remainsto attest the fidelity of the Jewish historian. Theruck is here * cut perpendicularly to an extent ofJO feet in some parts: while within tlie area also, inthe direction of the Mosk, a considerable portion ofthe rock has been cut away " to the general level ofthe enclosure (Bartlett, Walks about Jerusalem,pp. 156.174,175); so that the Seraiyah, or govem-•jent bouse, actually "rests upon a precipice of rock which formerly swept down abruptly, and hasobviously been cut away to form the level below,which also bears marks of having been scarped." The fortress was protected towards Bezetha byan artificial fosse, so as to prevent its foundationsfrom being assailed from that quarter. This fossehas only lately been filled in. It is certain, from several passages, that the for­tress Antonia did not cover the whole of the northernfront of tlie Temple area; and, as the second wall,that encircled the Lower City, ended at the fortress,it is clear that this wall could not hare coincidedwith the modern wall at the north-east quarter ofthe modern city. It is demonstrable, from severalallusions and historical notices, that there must havebeen a considerable space between the second andthird wall on the northern front of the Temple area.(Williams, Holy City, vol. ii. pp. 348—353.) V. History. The ancient history of Jerusalem may he con­veniently divided into four jieriods. 1. The Ca-naanitiJi, or Amorite. 2. The Hebrew, or Ante-Babylonian. 3. The Jewish, or Post-Babyloniiin.4. Tho Koman, or classical. 1. Of these, the first may claim the fullestnotice here, as the sources of information concerningit are much less generally known or read than thoseof the later periods, and anything that relates to thereunite history of that venerable city cannot but befull of interest to the antiquarian, no less than to theChristian student. It has been said that the learned are divided inopinion as to tlie identity of tlie Salem of Melchi-zedck with the Jerusalem of Sacred History. Thewriter of a very learned and interesting Review ofthe Second Edition of the Holy City, which appearedin the Christian Remembrancer (vol. xviii. October,1849), may be said to have demonstrated that iden­tity by a close critical analysis of all the passagesin which the circumstances are alluded to; and hasfurther shown it to be highly probable that thispatriarch was identical, not with Shem, as has beensometimes supposed, but with Hcber, the son ofPeleg, from whom the land of Canaan had obtainedthe name of the " land of the Hebrews" or Heberites,as earlv as the days of Joseph's deportation to Egypt.(Gem. xl. 15.) But the elucidation which the early history ofJerusalem receives from the monuments of Egypt isextremely important and valuable, as relating to aperiod which is passed over in silence by the sacredhistorian; and the*e notices are well collected andarranged in the review referred to, being borrowedfrom Mr. Osburn's very interesting work entitledEgypt, her Testimony to the Truth. After citingsome monuments of Sethos, and Sesostris his son,relating to the Jcbusites, the writer proceeds: —"What glimpses, then, do we obtain, if any, of theexistence of such a city as Jerusalem during therecorded period? Under that name, of course, wemust not expect to find it; since even in the days ofJoshua and the Judges it is so called by anticipation.(Hob/ City, vol. i. p. 3, note.) But there is a citywhich stands forth with a very marked and peculiarprominence in these wars of the kings of Egypt withthe Jcbusites, Amorites, and neighbouring tuitions.We meet with it first as a fortress of the Amorites.Sethos 11. is engaged in besieging it. It is situatedon a hill, and strengthened with two tiers of ram­parts. The inscription sets forth that it is in the c 4