OCR Output CHAP. LI. 403 inside the entrance of the castle. They overpoweredthe guard, unbolted the gate, let down the drawbridge,and defended the narrow pass, till the arrival of Caled,with the dawn of day, relieved their danger and assuredtheir conquest. Youkinna, a formidable foe, becamean active and useful proselyte; and the general of theSaracens expressed his regard for the most humble merit,by detaining the army at Aleppo till Dames was curedof his honourable wounds. The capital of Syria was stillcovered by the castle of Aazaz and the iron bridge ofthe Orontes. After the loss of these important posts,and the defeat of the last of the Roman armies, theluxury of Antiochr trembled and obeyed. Her safetywas ransomed with three hundred thousand pieces ofgold; but the throne of the successors of Alexander, theseat of the Roman government in the east, which hadbeen decorated by Caesar with the titles of free, andholy, and inviolate, was degraded under the yoke of thecaliphs to the secondary rank of a provincial town.*„. , , In the life of Heraclius, the glories of the Per-Heraciius. sian war are clouded on either hand by the dis­grace and weakness of his more early and hislater days. When the successors of Mahomet unsheathedthe sword of war and religion, he was astonished at theboundless prospect of toil and danger; his nature was in­dolent, nor could the infirm and frigid age of the empe­ror be kindled to a second effort. The sense of shame,and the importunities of the Syrians, prevented his hastydeparture from the scene of action; but the hero was no 'The date of the conquest of Antioch by the Arabs ia of some importance. Bycomparing the years of the world in the chronography of Theopbanes with the yearsof the Hegira in the history of Elmacin, we shall determine, that it was taken be­tween January 23 and September 1, of the year of Christ 638. (Pagi, Ciitica, inBaron. Anna1, torn. 2. p. 814,813.) Al Wakidi (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 314 ) assignsthat event to Tuesday, August 21, an inconsistent date; since Easter fell that yearon Aprils, the 21st of August must have been a Friday. (See the Tables of the Artde Verifier les Dates.) 'Hi s bounteous edict, which tempted the grateful city to assume the victory ofPharsalia for a perpetual era, i» given tt Aviux"a T /u»rf«roMi, li^a not mtni\y,iut aurmpv, x.ii of^iurn xai ^uia^/uini TO; aynToXx;. John Malala, in Chron. p. PI.edit. Vi-nri. We may distinguish his authentic information of domestic facts fromIn* gross ignorance of general history. 2 D 2