OCR Output 190 TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. [B. V". reproached them to persuade them to what tended to theirown preservation, was provoked to press on the siege. Healso, at the same time, gave his soldiers leave to set thesuburbs on fire, and ordered that they should bring timbertogether, and raise banks against the city; and when he hadparted his army into three parts, in order to set about those. works, he placed those that shot darts and the archers in themidst of the banks that were then raising; before whom hoplaced those engines that threw javelins, and darts, and stones,that he might prevent the enemy from sallying out upon theirworks, and might hinder those that were upon the wall frombeing able to obstruct them. So the trees were now cut downimmediately, and the suburbs left naked. But now while thetimber was carrying to raise the banks, and the whole armywas earnestly engaged in their works, the Jews were not,however, quiet; and it happened that the people of Jerusalem,who had been hitherto plundered and murdered, were now ofgood courage, and supposed they should have a breathingtime, while the others were very busy in opposing theirenemies without the city; and that they should now beavenged on those that had been the authors of their miseries,in case the Romans did but get the victory. 3. However, John stayed behind out of his fear of Simon,even while his own men were earnest in making a sally upontheir enemies without. Yet did not Simon lie still, for helay near the place of the siege; he brought his engines ofwar, and disposed of them at due distances upon the wall;both those which they took from Cestius formerly, and thosewhich they got when they seized the garrison that lay in thetower Antonia. But though they had these engines in theirpossession, they had so little skill in using them, that theywere in a great measure useless to them; but a few therewere who had been taught by deserters how to use them,which they did use, though after an awkward manner. Sothey cast stones and arrows at those that were making thebanks; they also ran out upon them by companies, and foughtwith them. Now, those that were at work covered them­selves with hurdles spread over their banks, and their engines