OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 309 minions of Odenathus, which extended from the Euphrates to thefrontiers of Bithynia, his widow added the inheritance of her an­cestors, the populous and fertile kingdom of Egypt. The emperorClaudius acknowledged her merit, and was content, that, while hepursued the Gothic war,yZ>£ should assert the dignity of the empire inthe East 6\ The conduct, however, of Zenobia, was attended withsome ambiguity; nor is it unlikely that she had conceived the designof erecting an independent and hostile monarchy. She blended withthe popular manners of Roman princes, the stately pomp of thecourts of Asia, and exacted from her subjects the fame adorationthat was paid to the successors of Cyrus. She bestowed on her threesons 61 a Latin education, and often shewed them to the troops adornedwith the imperial purple. For herself she reserved the diadem,with the splendid but doubtful title of Queen of the East. When Aurelian passed over into Asia, against an adversary whofe sex The expedf-alone could render her an object of contempt, his presence restored obe- ran.°f Aure*dience to the province of Bithynia, already shaken by the arms and A'D"intrigues of Zenobia 6\ Advancing at the head of his legions, he ac­cepted the submission of Ancyra, and was admitted into Tyana afteran obstinate siege by the help of a perfidious citizen. The generousthough fierce temper of Aurelian, abandoned the traitor to the rageof the soldiers: a superstitious reverence induced him to treat withlenity the countrymen of Apollonius the philosopherfiJ. Antiochwas deserted on his approach, till the emperor, by his salutary edicts,recalled the fugitives, and granted a general pardon to all who,from necessity rather than choice, had been engaged in the serviceof the Palmyrenian queen. The unexpected mildness of such aconduct, reconciled the minds of the Syrians, and, as far as thegates of Emesa, the wishes of the people seconded the terror of hisarms6+. Zenobia would have ill deserved her reputation, had she indo- dci^i^he™*lently permitted the emperor of the West to approach within an sn thebTtties4 hundred ^°e£