OCR Output 238 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. Opposition- Pescara, the town of Corfinium was selected as the Oppo-Rome. eition-Rome or city of Italia, whose citizenship was conferredon the burgesses of all the insurgent communities; there aForum and a senate-house were staked off on a suitablescale. A senate of five hundred members was chargedwith the settlement of the constitution and the superin­tendence of the war. In accordance with its directions theburgesses selected from the men of senatorial rank twoconsuls and twelve praetors, who, just like the two consulsand six praetors of Rome, were invested with the supremeauthority in war and peace. The Latin language, which waseven then the prevailing language among the Marsians andPieentes, continued in official use, but the Samnito lan­guage which predominated in Southern Italy was placed sideby side with it on a footing of equality; and the two weremade use of alternately on the silver pieces, which the newItalian state began to coin in its own name after Romanmodels and after the Roman standard, thus practicallyabolishing the monopoly of coinage which Rome had exer­cised for two centuries. It is evident from these arrange­ments—and was, indeed, a matter of course—that the Italiansnow no longer thought of wresting equality of rights fromthe Romans, but purposed to annihilate or subdue them andto form a new state. But it is also obvious, that their consti­tution was nothing but a pure copy of that of Rome or, inother words, was the ancient polity handed down by traditionamong the Italian nations from time immemorial—the organi­zation of a city instead of the constitution of a state—withcollective assemblies as unwieldy and useless as the Romancomitia, with a governing corporation which contained withinit the same elements of oligarchy as the Roman senate, withan executive administered in like manner by a plurality ofco-ordinate supreme magistrates. This imitation descendedto the minutest details; for instance, the title of consul orpraetor held by the magistrate in chief command was ex­changed also by the general of the Italians after a victory forthe title of Imperator. Nothing in fact was changed butthe name; on the coins of the insurgents the same image ofthe gods appears, the inscription only being changed fromRoma to Italia. This Rome of the insurgents was distin­guished—not to its advantage—from the original Romemerely by the circumstance, that, while the latter had atany rate an urban development and its unnatural position ->