OCR Output 66 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. the result of Hellenic independence. It was a dreadfulpicture. The old Doric rigour of the Cretan institutionshad become just as in Tarentum changed into a licentiousdemocracy, and the chivalrous spirit of the inhabitants into awild love of quarrelling and plunder; a respectable Greekhimself testifies, that in Crete alone nothing was accounteddisgraceful that was lucrative, and even the Apostle Paulquotes with approval the saying of a Cretan poet,' Kpijres ael i|/eDiTTcu, kokA Sqpla, yaarepes apyai. Perpetual civil wars, notwithstanding the Roman efforts tobring about peace, converted one flourishing township afteranother on the old " island of the hundred cities " into heapsof ruins. Its inhabitants roamed as robbers at home andabroad, by land and by sea; the island became the recruit­ing ground for the surrounding kingdoms after that evil wasno longer tolerated in the Peloponnesus, and above allthe true seat of piracy, about this period, for instance, theisland of Siphnus was thoroughly pillaged by a fleet ofCretan corsairs. Rhodes—which, besides, was unable torecover from the loss of its possessions on the mainland andfrom the blows inflicted on its commerce (ii. 306)—expendedits last energies in the wars, which it found itself compelled towage against the Cretans for the suppression of piracy150. (about 600), and in which the Romans sought to mediatebut without earnestness and apparently without success.Cilicia. Along with Crete, Cilicia soon began to become a second home for this buccaneering system. Piracy there not onlygained ground owing to the impotence of the Syrian rulers, butthe usurper Diodotus Tryphon, who had risen from a slave to146-139. be king of Syria (608-615), encouraged it by all means in hischief seat, the rugged or western Cilicia, with a view tostrengthen his throne by the aid of the corsairs. The uncom­monly lucrative character of the traffic with the pirates, whowere at once the principal captors of, and dealers in, slaves,procured for them among the mercantile public, even inAlexandria, Rhodes, and Delos, a certain toleration, in whicheven the governments sympathized at least by inaction.143. The evil was so serious that the senate, about 611, sent itsbest man Scipio ^Emilianus to Alexandria and Syria, in orderto ascertain on the spot what could be done with it. Butdiplomatic representations by the Romans did not makeweak governments strong; there was no other remedy but