OCR Output 270 ROMAN EMPIRE. Mahomet, during which their swords were religiouslysheathed both in foreign and domestic hostility; andthis partial truce is more strongly expressive of thehabits of anarchy and warfare.1" Their so- But ^e spi"t of rapine and revenge was at-ciaj.quaii- tempered by the milder influence of trade and Scations r J—.. ... andvir- literature. The solitary peninsula is encom-iiea' passed by the most civilized nations of the an­cient world: the merchant is the friend of mankind:and the annual caravans imported the first seeds ofknowledge and politeness into the cities, and even thecamps of the desert. Whatever may be the pedigreeof the Arabs, their language is derived from the sameoriginal stock with the Hebrew, the Syriac, and theChaldean tongues; the , independence of the tribeswas marked by their peculiar dialects ;q but each, aftertheir own, .allowed a just preference to the pure andperspicuous idiom of Mecca. In Arabia as well.as inGreece, the perfection of language outstripped the re­finement of manners; and her speech could diversifythe fourscore names of honey, the two hundred of aserpent, ,the five hundred of a lion, the thousand of asword, at a time when this copious dictionary was in­trusted to the memory of an illiterate people. Themonuments of the Homerites were inscribed with anobsolete and mysterious character; but the Cufic let-tersi the groundwork of- the present alphabet, were in­vented on the banks of the Euphrates; and the recentinvention was taught at Mecca by a stranger who set­tled in that city after the birth of Mahomet. The arts i' I'rocopins (de Bell. Persic. lih. I. c. 16.) places tin- tico boly months about thesummer solstice. The Arabians consecrate four months of the year—the first, se-rcnth, eleventh, and twelfth; and pretend, that in a long series of ages the tracewas infringed only four or six times. (Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p. 147—150.and Notes on the ninth chapter of the Koran, p. 154, &c: Casiri, Bibllot , Hiapano-Arabica, torn. 2. p. 20, 21.) i Arrian, in the second century, remarks (in Peripla Maris Erythraei, p. 12.)the partial or total difierence of the dialects of the Arabs. Their language andletters are copiously treated by Pocock, (Specimen, p. 150—154.) Casiri, (Bi-bliot. Hispano-Arabica, torn. 1. p. 1. 83. 292. torn. 2. p. 25, &c.) and Niebnhr.(Description de 1'Arabic, p. 72—86.) I pass slightly; I am not fond of repeat­ing words like a parrot.