OCR Output Chap. VJII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 353 rusalem, where the distress and miseries which the besieged en­dured, were so pressing, that the greater number of them in­vited Herod into the city, and already placed their hopes on him.Now, the sons of Babas were of great dignity, and had poweramong the multitude, and were faithful to Antigonus, and werealways raising calumnies against Herod, and encouraged the peo­ple to preserve the government to that royal family which heldit by inheritance. So these men acted thus politically, and, asthey thought, for their own advantage; but when the city wastaken, and Herod had gotten the government into his hands, andCostobarus was appointed to hinder men from passing out at thegates, and to guard the city, that those citizens that were guilty,and of the party opposite to the king, might not get out of it,Costobarus being sensible that the sons of Babas were had in re­spect and honour by the whole multitude, and supposing thattheir preservation might b^ of great advantage to him in thechanges of government afterward, he set them by themselves,and concealed them in his own farms; and when the thing wassuspected, he assured Herod upon oath that he really knewnothing of that matter, and so overcame the suspicions that layupon him; nay, after that, when the king had publicly pro­posed a reward for the discovery, and had put in practice allsorts of methods for searching out this matter, he would notconfess it, but being persuaded that when he had at first deniedit, if the men were found, he should not escape unpunished, hewas forced to keep them secret, not only out of his good-will tothem, but out of a necessary regard to his own preservationalso: But when the king knew the thing, by his sister's infor­mation, he sent men to the places where he had the intimationthey were concealed, and ordered both them, and those thatwere accused as guilty with them, to be slain, insomuch thatthere were now none at all left of the kindred of Hyrcanus, andthe kingdom was entirely in Herod's own power, and there wasnobody remaining of such dignity as could put a stop to whathe did against the Jewish laws. CHAP. VIII. How ten men of (he citizens [of Jerusalem} made a conspiracyagainst Herod, for the foreign practices he had introduced,"which was a transgression of the laws of their country. Con­cerning the building ofSebaste and Cesarea, and other edificesof Herod. § 1. (. )N_this_iiccoiint it__was that Herod revolted from thelaws of his country, and corrupted their ancient constitution,