OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 117 verty exempted them from tribute, and whose cowardicewas seldom exposed to military service. But the wisercitizens, who judged of the future by the past, revolvedin their memory the immense loss, both of men andmoney, which the empire had sustained in the expedi­tion of Basiliscus. The troops, which after five laboriouscampaigns had been recalled from the Persian frontier,dreaded the sea, the climate, and the arms of an un­known enemy. The ministers of the finances computed,as far as they might compute, the demands of an Africanwar; the taxes which must be found and levied to sup­ply those insatiate demands; and the danger, lest theirown lives, or at least their lucrative employments, shouldbe made responsible for the deficiency of the. supply.Inspired by such selfish motives (for we may not suspecthim of any zeal for the public good), John of Cappado-cia ventured to oppose in full council the inclinations ofhis master. He confessed, that a victory of such impor­tance could not be too dearly purchased; but he repre­sented in a grave discourse the certain difficulties andthe uncertain event. "You undertake (said the prefect)to besiege Carthage by land ; the distance is not less thanone hundred and forty days journey; on the sea, a wholeyeard must elapse before you can receive any intelligencefrom your fleet. If Africa should be reduced, it can­not be preserved without the additional conquest of Si­cily and Italy. Success will impose the obligation ofnew labours; a single misfortune will attract the barba­rians into the heart of your exhausted empire." Justi­nian felt the weight of this salutary advice; he was con­founded by the unwonted freedom of an obsequious ser­vant ; and the design of the war would perhaps have beenrelinquished, if his courage had not been revived bya voice which silenced the doubts of profane reason. d A year—absurd exaggeration! The conqnest of Africa may be dated A. D. 533,September 14: it is celebrated by Justinian in the preface to his Institutes, whichwere published November 21 of the same year. Including the voyage and return,such a computation might be truly applied to our Indian empire.