OCR Output 454 [book XII, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. find taken those that were there in theircaves, (for many of the people had fled intosuch places,) he removed, and made all thehaste he could to Jerusalem. And when hehad learned that Judas had pitched his campat a certain village whose name was Beth-zetho, he led his army against him. Theywere twenty thousand footmen, and two thou­sand horsemen. Now Judas had no moresoldiers than *one thousand. When thesesaw the multitude of Bacchides's men, theywere afraid, and left their camp, and fled allaway, excepting eight hundred. Now whenJudas was deserted by his own soldiers, andthe enemy pressed upon him, and gave himno time to gather his army together, he wasdisposed to fight with Bacchides's army,though he had but eight hundred men withhim. So he exhorted these men to undergothe danger courageously, and encouragedthem to attack the enemy. And when theysaid they were not a body sufficient to fightso great an army, and advised that theyshould retire now, and save themselves; andthat when he had gathered his own mentogether, he should fall upon the enemy after­wards: his answer was this, "Let not thesun ever see' such a thing, that I should shewmy back to the enemy: and although this bethe time that will bring me to my end, and Imust die in this battle, I will rather stand toit courageously, and bear whatever comesupon me, than by running away bring re­proach upon my former great actions; ortarnish their glory." This was the speechhe made to those that remained with him;whereby he encouraged them to attack theenemy. But Bacchides drew his army out of theircamp, and put them in array for the battle.He set the horsemen on both wings; and thelight soldiers and the archers he placed be­fore the whole army; but he was himself onthe right wing. And when he had thus puthis army in order, and was going to joinbattle with the enemy, he commanded thetrumpeter to give a signal, and the army to make a shout, and to fall on the enemy. Andwhen Judas had done the same, he joinedbattle with them; and as both sides foughtvaliantly, and the engagement continued tillsun-set, Judas saw that Bacchides, and thestrongest part of the army was in the rightwing; and therefore took the most coura­geous men with him, and ran upon that partof the army, and fell upon those that werethere, and brake their ranks, and drove theminto the middle, forced them to run away,and pursued them as far as to a mountaincalled Aza. But when those of the left wingsaw that the right wing was put to flight,they encompassed Judas, and pursued him,and came behind him, and took him into themiddle of their army. So being not able toflee, but encompassed round about with ene­mies, he stood still, and he and those thatwere with him fought. And when he hadslain a great many of those that came againsthim, he at last was himself wounded and fell,and gave up the ghost; and died in a waylike to his former famous actions. WhenJudas was dead, those that were with himhad no one whom they could regard as theircommander; but when they saw themselvesdeprived of such a general, they fled.f ButSimon, and Jonathan, Judas's brethren, re­ceived his dead body by a treaty from theenemy; and carried it to the village Modin;where their father had been interred, andthere buried him; while the multitude la­mented him many days, and performed theusual solemnities of a funeral to him. Andthis was the end that Judas came to. Hehad been a man of valour, and a great war­rior, and mindful of the commands of theirfather Mattathias; and had undergone alldifficulties, both in doing and suffering, for theliberty of his countrymen. And when his cha­racter was so excellent, while he was alive,he left behind him a glorious reputation, andmemorial: by gaining freedom for his nation;and delivering them from slavery under theMacedonians. And when he had retainedthe high-priesthood three years, he died. * That this copy of Josephus, as he wrote it, had herenot 1000 but 3000, with 1 Mace. ix. 5. is very plain;because though the main part ran away at first, even inJosephus, as well as in 1 Mace. ix. 6. yet, as there, so here, 800 are said to have remained with Judas. Whichwould be absurd, if the whole number had been no morethan 1000. t 1 Mace. iz. 18.