OCR Output THE decline and fall affectionate Zeid was tempted by the prospect of freedom: the illustrious Ali, theson of Abu Taleb, embraced the sentiments of his cousin with the spirit of ayouthful hero; and the wealth, the moderation, the veracity of Abubeker, con­firmed the religion of the propheftnvhom he was destined to succeed. . By his per­suasion, ten of the most respectable citizens of Mecca were introduced to the pri­vate lessons of Islam; they yielded to the voice of reason and enthusiasm; theyrepeated the fundamental creed,—" There is but one God, and Mahomet is theapostle of God;" and their faith, even in this life, was rewarded with riches andhonours, With the command of armies, and the government of kingdoms. Threeyears were silently employed in the conversion of fourteen proselytes, the firstfruits of his mission; but in the fourth year he assumed the prophetic office, andresolving to impart to his family the light of divine truth, he prepared a banquet,a lamb, as it is said, and a bowl of milk, for the entertainment of forty guests ofthe race of Hashem. " Friends and kinsmen," said Mahomet to the assembly," I offer you, and I alone can offer, the most precious of gifts, the treasures of thisworld and of the world to come. God has commanded me to call you to his ser­vice. Who among you will support my burden ? Who among you will be mycompanion and my vizir No answer was returned, till the silence of asto­ nishment, and doubt, and contempt, was at length broken by the impatient cou­rage of Ali, a youth in the fourteenth year of his age. " O prophet, I am theman; whosoever rises against thee, I will dash out his teeth, tear out his eyes,break his legs, rip up his belly. O prophet, I will be thy vizir over them." Ma­homet accepted his offer with transport, and Abu Taleb was ironically exhortedto respect the superior dignity of his son. In a more serious tone, the father ofAli advised his nephew to relinquish his impracticable design. " Spare your re­monstrances," replied the intrepid fanatic to his uncle and benefactor, "if they' should place the sun on my right hand, and the moon on my left, they should notdivert me from my course." He persevered ten years in the exercise of his mis­sion; and the religion which has overspread the east and the west, advanced witha slow and. painful progress within the walls of Mecca. Yet Mahomet enjoyedthe satisfaction of beholding the increase of his infant congregation of unitarians,who revered him as a prophet, and to whom he seasonably dispensed the spiritualnourishment of the Koran. The number of proselytes may be estimated by theabsence of eighty-three men and eighteen women, who retired to Ethiopia in theseventh year of his mission; and his party was fortified by the timely conversionof his uncle Hamza, and of the fierce and inflexible Omar, who signalized inthe cause of Islam the same zeal which he had exerted for its destruction. Norwas the charity of Mahomet confined to the tribe of Koreish or the precincts of Mec­ca: on solemn festivals, in the days of pilgrimage, he frequented the Caaba, ac­costed the strangers of every tribe, and urged, both in private converse and pub­lic discourse, the belief and worship of a sole deity. Conscious of his reason andof his weakness, he asserted the liberty of conscience, and disclaimed the use ofreligious violence;(2) but he called the Arabs to repentance, and conjured themto remember the ancient idolaters of Ad and Thamund, whom the divine justicehad swept away from the face of the earth. (3) The-people of Mecca were hardened in their unbelief by superstition and envy.The elders of the city, the uncles of the prophet, affected to despise the presump­tion of an orphan, the reformer of his country: the pious orations of Mahomet inthe Caaba were answered by the clamours of Abu Taleb. " Citizens and pil­grims, listen not to the tempter, hearken not to his impious novelties. Stand fastin the worship of Al Lata and Al Uzzah." Yet the son of Abdallah was everdear to the aged chief; and he protected the fame and person of his nephew againstthe assaults of the Koreishites, who had long been jealous of the pre-eminence ofthe family of Hashem. Their malice was coloured with the pretence of religion: (1) Vezirw, portitor, bqjulus, onus fa-em! and this plebeian name was transferred by an apt metaphor tothe pillars of the state. (Gagnier. Not. ad Abulfed. p. 19.) I endeavour to preserve the Arabian idiom, as far asI can feel it myself in a Latin or French translation. (2) The passages of the Koran in the behalf of toleration, are strong and numerous: c 2.T. 357. e. 16.129. e.17. 54. c. 45.15. e. 50.39. c. 88. 21, &c. with the notes of Maracei and Sale. This character alone may gene­rally decide the doubts of the learned, whether a chapter was revealed at Mecca or Medina. (3) See the Koran (passim, and especially e. 7. p. 123,124. &c.Jand the tradition of the Arabs (Pocock, Spe­cimen, p. 35—37.) The caverns of the tribe of Thamund, fit for men of the ordinary stature, were shown inthe midway between Medina and Damascns,( Abulfed. Arabia Descript. p. 43, 44.) and may be probably ascribedto the Troglodites of the primitive world, Michaelis, and Lowth tie I'oesi Hebrteor. p. 131—134, Recherche**ur les Egyptiens, torn. ii. p. 48, &c.