OCR Output AN. 465 145.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. mans. So he called the people of Antiochtogether, and persuaded them to receiveDemetrius; and assured them, that he wouldnot be mindful of what they did to his father,in case he should now be obliged by them;and lie undertook that he would himself be agood monitor and governor to him; and pro­mised that he would not permit him to at­tempt any bad actions. But that for his ownpart he was contented with the kingdom ofEgypt. By which discourse he persuadedthe people of Antioch to receive Demetrius. In the mean time, Alexander assembled anumerous army, and came out of Cilicia intoSyria, and burnt the country belonging toAntioch, and pillaged it.* Whereupon Pto­lemy, and his son-in-law Demetrius, broughttheir army against him; (for he had alreadygiven him his daughter in marriage;) andbeat Alexander, and put him to flight. Andaccordingly he fled into Arabia. Now it hap­pened in the time of battle that Ptolemy'shorse, upon hearing the noise of an elephant,cast him off his back, and threw him on theground. Upon the sight of this accident hisenemies fell upon him, and gave him manywounds upon his head, and brought him intodanger of death; for when his guards caughthim up, he was so very ill, that for four days'time he was not able either to understand, orto speak. However, Zabdiel, a prince amongthe Arabians, cut off Alexander's head, andsent it to Ptolemy. Who, recovering of hiswounds, and returning to his understandingon the fifth day, heard at once a most agree­able hearing, and saw a most agreeable sight;which were the death, and the head of Alex­ander. Yet a little after this joy for the deathof Alexander, with which he was so greatlysatisfied, he also departed this life. NowAlexander, who was called Balas, reignedover Asia five years. But when Demetrius, who was styled fNi-cator, had taken the kingdom, he was so wicked as to treat Ptolemy's soldiers veryhardly; neither remembering the league ofmutual assistance that was between them, northat he was his son-in-law and kinsman, byCleopatra's marriage to him. So the soldiersfled from his wicked treatment, to Alexandria.But Demetrius kept his elephants. In themean time Jonathan, the high-priest, leviedan army out of all Judea, and attacked thecitadel at Jerusalem, and besieged it. It washeld by a garrison of Macedonians, and bysome of those wicked men who had desertedthe customs of their forefathers. These menat first despised the attempts of Jonathan fortaking the place; as depending on its strength.But some of those wicked men went out bynight, and came to Demetrius, and informedhim, that the citadel was besieged. He wasaccordingly irritated with what he heard, andtook his army, and came from Antioch againstJonathan. And when he was at Antioch, hewrote to him, and commanded him to cometo him quickly, to Ptolemais. Jonathan didnot intermit the siege of the citadel; but tookwith him the elders of the people, and thepriests; and carried with him gold, and silver,and garments, and a great number of pre­sents of friendship, and came to Demetrius,and presented him with them, and therebypacified the king's anger. So he was ho­noured hy him, and received from him theconfirmation of his high-priesthood, as hehad possessed it by the grants of the kingshis predecessors. And when the Jewish de­serters accused him, Demetrius was so farfrom giving credit to them, that when he pe­titioned him that he would demand no morethan three hundred talents for the tribute ofall Judea, and the three toparchies of Sa­maria, Perea, and Galilee, he complied withthe proposal, and gave him a letter confirm­ing all those grants; whose contents were asfollow:— "King DemetriusJ to Jonathan his hro­ * An. 145 B. C. t This name, Demetrius Nicator, or Demetrius theConqueror, is so written on his coins still extant; asHudson and Spanheim informs us. The latter of whomgives us here the entire inscription, " King Demetrius,the god, Philadelphns, Nicator." J Dr. Hudson observes, that Josephus gives us thisepistle of king Demetrius to Jonathan in purer Greek,than does the translator of the first book of Maccabees;where also it is preserved, 1 Mace. xi. 30—37. whence he gathers, how careful Josephus was of elegance in theGreek tongue. Nor is this other than Josephus's usualcustom, in producing his other ancient records; which heloves to give us, as much as possible, in his own language.However, as I take it, the most material reason of thedifferent purity of these two versions of the presentepistle is this, that Josephus wrote the purer Attic, andthe translator of the first book of Maccabees the coarserHellenistic dialect; which would naturally produce thisinequality.