OCR Output 332 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. Third ander and Justinian, the oracles of jurisprudence wereA?u. C. almost mute. The measure of curiosity had been filled:988—1230 ^e tjlrone was OCCUpied by tyrants and barbarians; theactive spirits were diverted by religious disputes, and theprofessors of Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, werehumbly content to repeat the lessons of their more en­lightened predecessors. From the slow advances andrapid decay of these legal studies, it may be inferred, thatthey require a state of peace and refinement. From themultitude of voluminous civilians who fill the interme­diate space, it is evident, that such studies may be pur­sued, and such works may be performed, with a commonshare of judgment, experience, and industry. The ge­nius of Cicero and Virgil was more sensibly felt, as eachrevolving age had been found incapable of producing asimilar or a second: but the most eminent teachers ofthe law were assured of leaving disciples equal or supe­rior to themselves in merit and reputation.iosopbyhl" The jurisprudence which had been grossly adapted tothe wants of the first Romans, was polished and improvedin the seventh century of the city, by the alliance ofGrecian philosophy. The Scaevolas had been taught byuse and experience; but Servius Sulpicius was the firstcivilian who established his art on a certain and generaltheory.11 For the discernment of truth and falsehood, heapplied, as an infallible rule, the logic of Aristotle andthe stoics, reduced particular cases to general principles,and diffused over the shapeless mass, the light of orderand eloquence. Cicero, his contemporary and friend,declined the reputation of a professed lawyer; but thejurisprudence of his country was adorned by his incom­parable genius, which converts into gold every objectthat it touches. After the example of Plato, he com­posed a republic; and, for the use of his republic, a trea- h Crassns, or rather Cicero himself, proposes (de Oratore, 1. 41, 42.) an idea ofthe art or science of jnrisprndence, which the eloquent, bnt illiterate, Anlonius (1.58.) effects to deride. It was partly executed by Servius Sntpicins, (in Brnto, c. 41.)whose praises are elegantly varied in the classic Latinity of the Roman Grarina.(p. 60.)