OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE* of the faithful, But in the long and hereditary exercise of power, they assumedthe pride and attributes of royalty; the alternative of peace or war, of reward orpunishment, depended solely on their will; and the revenues of the governmentwere reserved for local services or private magnificence. Instead of a regularsupply of men and money, the successors of the prophet were flattered with theostentatious gift of an elephant, or a cast of hawks, a suit of silk hangings, or somepounds of musk and amber. (1) After the revolt of Spain, from the temporal and spiritual supremacy of the Ab-bassides, the first symptoms of disobedience broke forth in the province of Africa.Ibrahim, the son of Aglab, the lieutenant of the vigilant and rigid Harun, be­queathed to the dynasty of the ylglabites the inheritance of his name and power,The indolence or policy of the caliphs dissembled the injury and loss, and pursuedonly with poison the founder of the lidrisites,{2) who erected the kingdom andcity of Fez on the shores of the western ocean. (3) In the east, the first dynasty wasthat of the Taheri£es;(4) the posterity of the valiant Taher, who, in the civil warsof the sons of Harun, had served with* too much zeal and success the cause of Alma-mon, the younger hrnther. He was sent into honourable exile, to command on thebanks of the Oxus; and the independence of his successors, who reigned in Cho-rasan till the fourth generation, was palliated by their modest and respectful de­meanour, the happiness of their subjects, and the security of their frontier. Theywere supplanted by one of those adventurers so frequent in the annals of the east,who left his trade of a brazier (from whence the name of Sqffarides) for the profes­sion of a robber. In a nocturnal visit to the treasure of the prince of Sistan, Jacob,the son of Leith, stumbled over a lump of salt, which he unwarily tasted with histongue. Salt, among the orientals, is the symbol of hospitality, and the pious rob­ber immediately retired without spoil or damage. The discovery of this honou­rable behaviour recommended Jacob to pardon and trust; he led an army at firstfor his benefactor, at last for himself, subdued Persia, and threatened the residenceof the Abbassides. On his march towards Bagdad, the conqueror was arrestedby a fever. He gave audience in bed to the ambassador of the caliph; and be­side him on a table were exposed a naked scimitar, a crust of brown bread and abunch of onions. " If I die," said he, " your master is delivered from his fears.If I live, this must determine between us. If I am vanquished, I can return with­out reluctance to the homely fare of my youth." From the height where he stood,the descent would not have been so soft or harmless; a timely death secured hisown repose and that of the caliph, who paid with the most lavish concessions theretreat of his brother Amrou to the palaces of Shiraz and Ispahan. The Abbas­sides were too feeble to contend, too proud to forgive; they invited the powerfuldynasty of the Samanidcs, who passed the Oxus with ten thousand horse, so poor,that their stirrups were of wood; so brave, that they vanquished the Soffarian army,eight times more numerous than their own. The captive Amrou was sent inchains, a grateful offering to the court of Bagdad; and as the victor was content■with the inheritance of Transoxiana and Chorasan, the realms of Persia returnedfor awhile to the allegiance of the caliphs. The provinces of Syria and Egypt■were twice dismembered by their Turkish slaves, of the race of Toulon and Ik-shid. (5) These barbarians, in religion and manners, the countrymen of Mahomet,emerged from the bloody factions of the palace to a provincial command and anindependant throne: their names became famous and formidable in their time; butthe founders of these two potent dynasties confessed, either in words or actions,the vanity of ambition. The first on his death-bed implored the mercy of God to (1) The dynasties of the Arabian empire may he studied in the Annals of Elmacin, Abnlpharagius, andAbulfeda, under ihe proper years; in the dictionary of d'Herbelot, under the proper names. The tables of M,de Gtiignes (Hist des Huns, torn. i. exhibit a general chronology of the east, interspersed with some historicalanecdotes; but his attachment to national blood has sometimes confounded the order of time and place. (2) The Agiabitcs and Edrisites are the professed subject of M. de Cardonne. (Hist, de PAfrique et de I'Es-pagne sous la Domination des Arabes, torn. ii. p. 1—63.) (3) To escape the reproach of error, 1 must criticise The inaccuracies of M. de Guignes (torn. i. p. 329.) con­cerning the Edrisites. l. The dynasty and city of Fez. could not Iw* founded in the year of the Hegira 173,since the founder was a potthwnom child of a descendant of All, who fled from Mecca in the year 168. 2. Thisfounder, Edris, the son of Edris, instead of living to the improbable age of one hundred and twenty years, A.H. 313, died A. H. 214, in the prime of manhood. 3. The dynasty ended A. H. 307, twenty-three y<ars soonerthan it is fixed by the historian of the Huns. See the accurate Annals of Abulfeda, p. 158,159. 185. 238. (4) The dynasties of the Taherites and SotTurides, with the rise of that of the Sanianides, are described in theoriginal history and Latin version of Mirchond; yet the most interesting facts had already been drained by thediligence of M. d'Herbelot. (5) M. de Guigncs (Hist, des Huns, torn. iii. p. 124—154.) has exhausted the Toulunides and IksMiIites ofEgrpt, and thrown some light on the Cannathiaus and Hamadanites. Vol. Iir. 53