OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVIII. 121 22. While Scipio was thus employed, operationswere carried on by his lieutenant Marcius, who, hav­ing passed the river Baetis, which the natives call Cer-tis, got possession of two wealthy cities, by surrenderwithout a contest. There was another called Astapa,which had always taken part with the Carthaginians;but that circumstance did not so much call for resent­ment, as from their having acted towards the Romanswith an extraordinary degree of animosity, beyondwhat the exigences of the war could warrant. Thiswas the more surprising, as they had no city so se­cured, either by situation or fortification, as that itmight encourage such fierceness of temper; but thedisposition of the inhabitants delighting in plunder,led them to make incursions into the neighboringlands belonging to the allies of the Roman people, andeven to seize on small parties of soldiers, together withthe sutlers and traders. A large detachment also,which was attempting to pass through their territory,was surrounded by an ambuscade, and put to death ina place where they could not defend themselves. Assoon as the army approached to besiege the city, theinhabitants, conscious of their crimes, saw no prospectof safety in surrendering to a people so highly pro­voked; and as their fortifications were in such a statethat they could not greatly hope to defend themselvesby arms, they contrived a plan of the most shockingand savage nature, which they agreed to execute onthemselves and their families. They fixed on a partof the forum, into which they brought together all theirmost valuable effects, and having made their wivesand children seat themselves on this heap, they piledup timber all round it, and threw on it abundance offaggots. They then gave a charge to fifty young menin arms, that ' as long as the issue of the fight shouldbe uncertain, they should carefully guard in that spotthe fortunes of all, and the persons of those who weredearer to them than their fortunes. Should they per­ceive that their friends were worsted, and that thecity was likely to be taken, that then they might be