OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 15 " painful pre-eminence, exposed to danger, and sub-" ject to the vicissitudes of fortune. In a city so well" provided with men of illustrious character, was it" adviseable to confide the whole to a single ruler?:." The several departments of public business would" be better filled by a coalition of the best and ablest" citizens." In this strain Tiberius delivered himself^with dignity of sentiment, it is true, but nothing from,the heart. A profound master of dissimulation, he',had from nature, or the force of habit, the art of be- |ing dark and unintelligible. Even upon occasionswhen duplicity was useless, he spoke in short andbroken hints, the sense suspended, mysterious, andindecisive. Intending at present to conceal his sen­timents, he was of course more involved than ever.The senators, dreading nothing so much as the crimeof knowing his character, broke out in a strain ofsupplication; they molted into tears; they pouredforth entreaties; with uplifted hands they looked tothe gods; they turned to the statue of Augustus, andat times fell prostrate at the knees of Tiberius. Thussurrounded he called for a state-paper, and orderedit to be read. It set forth an estimate of the empireand its resources, the number of citizens, the allies ofRome, an account of the naval strength, the names ofthe conquered kingdoms^ and provinces; the sub­sidies, tributes, and the amount of the revenue, withthe necessary disbursements of government, and thedemands for secret service. The whole was in thehand-writing of Augustus. It concluded with his ad­vice, never to aim at an extension of empire : an im­portant rule of policy; but was it the result of wisdom ?or did he view with a malignant eye the fame thatmight accrue to his successor? , XII. The senate still continuing, with prostrateservility, to press their suit, Tiberius let fall an ex­pression, intimating that though unequal to the whole,he was willing to undertake any part that might becommitted to his care. Inform us, Csesar, said AsiniusGallus, what part do you choose? Disconcerted byso unexpected a question, Tiberius paused for a mo­ment; but soon collecting himself, " To choose," he