OCR Output 334 livy. the road, being deceived by the various shouts raisedin several quarters. Some of them met with the ene­my, and battles began in many places at once. Thehottest part of the action was at the station where theking commanded; for the guard there was, in numbersboth of horse and foot, almost a complete army; and,as they were posted on the middle road, the greatestnumber of the Romans fell in with them. The Mace­donians had also the advantage in this, that the kinghimself was present to encourage them; and the Cre­tan auxiliaries, fighting in good order, and in a stateof preparation, against troops disordered and irregular,wounded many at a distance, where no such dangerwas apprehended. If they had acted with prudence inthe pursuit, they would have secured an advantage ofgreat importance, not only in regard to the glory ofthe present contest, but to the general interest of thewar; but, greedy of slaughter, and following with toomuch eagerness, they fell in with the advanced cohortsof the Romans under the military tribunes. The horse­men who were flying, as soon as they saw the ensignsof their friends, faced about against the enemy, now indisorder; so that in a moment's time the fortune of thebattle was changed, those now turning their backs whohad lately been the pursuers. Many were slain inclose fight, many in the pursuit; nor was it by thesword alone that they perished; several being driveninto morasses were, together with their horses, swal­lowed up in the deep mud. The king himself was indanger; for his horse falling, in consequence of awound, threw him headlong to the ground, and he verynarrowly escaped being overpowered before he couldrecover his feet. He owed his safety to a trooper,who instantly leaped from his horse, on which hemounted the affrighted king; himself, as he could notrun so fast as to keep up with the horsemen, was slainby the enemy, who had collected about the place wherePhilip fell. The king, in his desperate flight, rodeabout among the morasses, some of which were easilypassed, and others not; at length, when most men