OCR Output 386 FLAVIUS J0SBPHU3 [B. I. were with him, and explained to them all the circumstancesof their people; for he had all their habitations and politydown in writing." Moreover, Hecateus declares again," what regard we have for our laws, and that we resolve toendure any thing rather than transgress them, because wethink it right for us to do so." Whereupon he adds, that" although they are in a bad reputation among their neigh­bors, and among all those that come to them, and have beenoften treated injuriously by the kings and governors ofPersia, yet can they not be dissuaded from acting but whatthey think best; but that when they are stripped on this ac­count, and have torments inflicted upon them, and they arebrought to the most terrible kinds of death, they meet themafter an extraordinary manner, beyond all other people, andwill not renounce the religion of their forefathers." Hecateusalso produces demonstrations not a few of this their resolutetenaciousness of their laws, when he speaks thus: — "Alex­ander was once at Babylon, and had an intention to rebuildthe temple of Belus that was fallen to decay, and, in orderthereto, he commanded all his soldiers in general to bringearth thither; but the Jews, and they only, would not complywith that command; nay, they underwent stripes and greatlosses of what they had on this account, till the king forgavethem, and permitted them to live in quiet." He adds farther,that "when the Macedonians came to them into that country,and demolished the [old] temples and the altars, they assistedthem in demolishing them all,1 but [for not assisting them inrebuilding them] they either underwent losses, or sometimesobtained forgiveness." He adds farther, that "these mendeserve to be admired on that account." Ho also speaks ofthe mighty populousness of our nation, and says, that " thePersians formerly carried away many ten thousands of ourpeople to Babylon, as also, that not a few ten thousands wereremoved, after Alexander's death, into Egypt and Phoenicia,by reason of the sedition that was arisen in Syria." Thesame person takes notice in his history, how large the countryis which we inhabit, as well as of its excellent character, and 1 S- " read the text with Havercamp, though the place bo difficult.