OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 299 to-revive the institutions of the Roman monarchy. But his successors only oncein their lives appeared on the banks of the Tiber, to receive their crown in theVatican^) Their absence was contemptible, their presence odious and formi­dable. They descended from the Alps, at the head of their barbarians, who werestrangers and enemies to the country; and their transient visit was a scene of tu­mult and bloodshed. (2) A faint remembrance of their ancestors still tormentedthe Romans; and they beheld with pious indignation the succession of Saxons,Franks, Svvabians, and Bohemians, who usurped the purple and prerogatives ofthe Caesars. There is nothing perhaps more adverse to nature and reason, than to hold inobedience remote countries and foreign nations, in opposition to their inclinationand interest. A torrent of barbarians may pass over the earth, but an extensiveempire must be supported by a refined system of policy and oppression; in thecentre, an absolute power, prompt in action, and rich in resources; a swift andeasy communication with the extreme parts: fortifications to check the first effortof rebellion: a regular administration to protect and punish; and a well-disciplinedarmy to inspire fear, without provoking discontent and despair. Far different wasthe situation of the. German Cscsars, who were ambitious to enslave the kingdomof Italy. Their patrimonial estates were stretched along the Rhine, or scatteredin the provinces; but this ample domain was alienated by the imprudence or dis­tress of successive princes; and their revenue from minute and vexatious preroga­tive, was scarcely sufficient for the maintenance of their household. Their troopswere formed by the legal or voluntary service of their feudal vassals, who passed theAlps with reluctance, assumed the license of rapine and disorder, and capriciouslydeserted before the end of the campaign. Whole armies were swept away by thepestilential influence of the climate: the survivors brought back the bones of theirprinces and nobles,(3) and the effects of their own intemperance were often im­puted to the treachery and malice of the Italians, who rejoiced at least in the cala­mities of the barbarians. This irregular tyranny might contend on equal termswith the petty tyrants of Italy; nor can the people, or the reader, be much inte­rested in the event of the quarrel. But in the eleventh and twelfth centuries, theLombards rekindled the flame of industry and freedom; and the generous examplewas at length imitated by the republics of Tuscany. In the Italian cities a mu­nicipal government had never beeu totally abolished; and their first privileges weregranted by the favour and policy of the emperors, who were desirous of erecting aplebeian barrier against the independence of the nobles. But their rapid progress,the daily extension of their power and pretensions, were fou' ded on the numbersand spirit of these rising communities. (4) Each city filled the measure of herdiocess or district: the jurisdiction of the counts and bishops, of the marquises andcounts, was banished from the land; and the proudest nobles were persuaded orcompelled to desert their solitary castles, and to embrace the more honourablecharacter of freemen and magistrates. The legislative authority was inherent inthe general assembly; but the executive powers were intrusted to three consuls,annually chosen from the three orders of cafitains, valvassors,{_5) and common's,into which the republic was divided. Under the protection of equal law, the la­bours of commerce and agriculture were gradually revived; but the martial spiritof the Lombards was nourished by the presence of danger; and as often as the bellwas rung, or the standard (6) erected, the gates of the city poured forth a nu­merous and intrepid band, whose zeal in their own cause was soon guided by theuse and discipline of arms. At the foot of these popular ramparts, the pride of the (1) The coronation of the emperor, and tome original ceremonies of the tenth century, arc preserved in-thePauegyric oo Bereugarius, (Script. Ital. torn. ii. part 1. 405—414.) illustrated by the notes of Hadrian, Vale-■iui. and Leibnitz. Sigonitls has related the whole process of the Roman expedition in good Latin, but with,sons' errors of time and fact. (lib. vi. p. 441—446.) (2) In a quarrel at tlie coronation of Conrad II. Muratori takes leave to observe—dovcano ben essere alforaindiscipiiiuti.Barbario, txutinli i Tedeschi. Annal. torn. viii. p. 368. (3) After boiling away the flesh. The caldrons for that purpose were a necessary piece of travelling furni­ture; and a German who was using it for his brother, promised it to a friend, after it should have been em­ployed for himself (Schmidt, torn. iii. p. 423, 424.) The same author observes that the whole Saxon line wasextinguished in Italy, (torn. i. p. 440.) (4) Otho, bishop of Frinsiniren, has left an important passage on the Italian cities; (lib. ii. c. 13. in Script.Ital. torn. vi. p. 707—710.) and the rise, progress and government of these republics, are perfectly illustratedby Muratori. (Antiquitat. Ital. Medii .Svi, torn. iv. dissert. 4J—52. p. 1—675. Anna!, torn. 8—10.) (J) For these titles, -ee Selden, (Titles of Honour, vol. iii. part 1. p. 488.) Ducange, (Gloss. Latin, torn. ii.p. 140. torn. vi. p. 776.) and St. Marc. (Abrege Chronologique, torn. ii. p. 719.) A6) The Lombards invented and used the curortum, a standard planted una car or wagon, drawn byateam of oxftn. Ducange, torn. ii. p. 194,195. Muratori, Amiqultat. torn. ii. <tis. 36. p. 480—493.)