OCR Output AN. 1158. J 175 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When Sampson had slain many of the Phi­listines, in the plain country, he dwelt atEtam; which is a strong rock of the tribe ofJudah. For the Philistines at that time madean expedition against that tribe. But thepeople of Judah said, they did not act justlywith them, in inflicting punishments uponthem, while they paid their tribute; and thisonly on account of Sampson's offences. Theyanswered, that in case they would not beblamed themselves, they must deliver upSampson, and put him into their power. Sothey, being desirous to exculpate themselves,came to the rock with three thousand armedmen, and complained to Sampson of the boldinsults he had made upon the Philistines; whowere men able to bring calamity upon thewhole nation of the Hebrews; and they toldhim, they were come to take him, and to de­liver him up to them, and put him into theirpower. So they desired him to bear thiswillingly. Accordingly when he had receivedassurance from them upon oath, that theywould do him no other harm than only to de­liver him into the enemy's hands, he camedown from the rock, and put himself into thepower of his countrymen. Then did theybind him with two cords, and lead him on,in order to deliver him to the Philistines, andwhen they came to a certain place, which isnow called the Jaw Bone, on account of thegreat action there performed by Sampson;though of old it had no particular name; thePhilistines, who had pitched their camp not far off, came to meet them with joy andshouting; as having done a great thing, andgained what they desired. But Sampsonbrake his bonds asunder, and catching up thejaw bone of an ass, that lay at his feet, he fellupon his enemies, and smiting them with hisjaw bone slew a thousand of them;* and putthe rest to flight in great disorder, f Upon this slaughter, Sampson was tooproud of what he had performed, and saidthat this did not come to pass by the assist­ance of God, but that his success was to beascribed to his own courage, and vauntedhimself, that it was out of dread of him thatsome of his enemies fell, and the rest ranaway, upon his use of the jaw bone. Butwhen a great thirst came upon him, he con­sidered that human courage is nothing, andbare his testimony that all is to be ascribedto God; and besought him, that he would notbe angry at any thing he had said, nor givehim up into the hands of his enemies; butafford him help under his affliction, and de­liver him from the misfortunes he was under.Accordingly God was moved with his in-treaties, and raised him up a plentiful foun­tain of sweet water, at a certain rock. Whenceit was that Sampson called the placeJ theJaw Bone, and so it is called to this day. After this fight Sampson held the Philis­tines in contempt, and came to Gaza, andtook up his lodging in a certain inn. Whenthe rulers of Gaza were informed of his com­ing thither, they seized upon the gates, and * Judg. xv. 15. t Setting aside the various interpretations which havebeen given of this expression, the Editor of Calmet'sDictionary proposes to illustrate it by the following ex­tract: "It appears probable from the following circum­stances, that the exercise of wrestling, as it is now per­formed by the Turks, is the very same that was ancientlyused in the Olympic games. For, besides the previouscovering of the palaestra with sand, that the combatantsmight fall with more safety, they have their pellowanbashee, or master wrestler; who, like the ayuvoderiis ofold, is to observe and superintend the jura palaestra, andto be the umpire in all disputes. The combatants, afterthey are anointed all over with oil, to render their nakedbodies the more slippery, and less easily to be taken holdof, first of all look one another stedfastly in the face, asDiomede or Ulysses does the palladium upon antiquegems. They then ran up to, and retire from, each otherseveral times, using all the while a variety of antic andother postures, such as are commonly used in the courseof the ensuing conflict: after this prelude they drawnearer together, and challenge each other, by clapping thepalms of their hands, first upon their own knees or thighs, then upon each other, and afterwards upon the palms oftheir respective antagonists. The challenge being thusgiven, they immediately close in and struggle with eachother, striving with all their strength, art, and dexterity,(which are often very extraordinary,) which shall give hisantagonist a fall, and become the conqueror. Durtngthese contests I have often seen their arms, legs, andthighs, so twisted and linked together, that they have bothfallen together, and left the victory dubious, too difficultsometimes for the pellowan bashee to decide." Shaw'sTrav. p. 217. Do not these well deserve the description of leg andthigh men, or shoulder and thigh men? The name seemsto be taken from their very attitudes, and correctly to ex­press them. If this idea be admitted, it cannot be difficultto understand the above cited expression. B. J This fountain, called Leti, or the Jaw Bone, is still inbeing, as travellers assure us; and was known by this veryname in the days of Josephus; and hath been known bythe same name in all past ages. See Antiq. VII. 12. theAnnals of Glycas, and the itinerary of Antoninus; apReland, Palestin. torn. II. p. 752.