OCR Output an. 1950.] 29 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. possess her, if he had known she was a wife;"But since," said he, " she accompanied theein the character of thy sister, I was guilty ofno offence." He also intreated him to be atpeace with him, and to make God propitiousto him; and that if he thought fit to continuewith him, he should have what he wanted inabundance; but that if he designed to goaway, he should be honourably conducted,and have whatever supply he wanted whenhe came thither. Upon his saying this, Abra­ham told him, that his pretence of kindred tohis wife was not a falsehood, because shewas his brother's daughter, and that he didnot think himself safe in his travels abroadwithout this sort of dissimulation, and that hewas not the cause of his distemper, but wasonly solicitous for his own safety. He said alsothat he was ready to stay with him, where­upon Abimelech assigned him land andmoney; and they covenanted to live togetherwithout guile, and took an oath at a certainwell, called Beersheba,* which may be in­terpreted the well of the oath, and so it isnamed by the people of the country unto thisday. Now in a little time Abrahamf had a sonby Sarah, as God had foretold to him, whomhe named Isaac, which signifies laughter;and indeed they so called him because Sarahlaughed when God saidJ that she should beara son, she not expecting such a thing, asbeing past the age of child-bearing, for shewas ninety years old, and Abraham a hundred,so that his son was born to them both in thelast year of each of those decimal numbers;and they circumcised him|| upon the eighth * Gen. xvi. 31. t An. 1937. J It is well worth observation that Josephus here callsthat principal angel who-appeared to Abraham, and fore­told the birth of Isaac, directly God; which as he haddone it before in his coherence, c. 11. and does it after­ward, c. 13. and v. 8. is not very strange in a great readerand admirer of Philo, who does it so often; which lan­guage of Josephus's here, prepares us to believe thoseother expressions of his, that Jesus was a wise man, if itbe lawful to call him a man, XVIII. 3. and of God theWord, in his last homily concerning Hades, may beboth genuine; nor is the other expression of divineangel, used presently, and before, also of any other signifi­cation. II This circumcision is not after, but on the eighth day:as it is elsewhere expressed by Josephus. The like con­struction to which we meet with in the New Testament, day; and from that time the Jews continuethe custom of circumcising their sons withinthat number of days; but as for the Arabians,they circumcise after the thirteenth year,because Ismael, the founder of their nation,who was born to Abraham of the concubine,was circumcised at that age, concerningwhom I will hereafter give a particular ac­count. As for Sarah, she at first loved Ismael, whowas born of her handmaid Hagar, with anaffection not inferior to that of a mother, forhe was brought up in order to succeed in thegovernment; but when she herself had borneIsaac, she was not willing that Ismael shouldbe brought up with him, as being too low forhim, and able to do him injuries when theirfather should be dead. She therefore per­suaded Abraham to send him and his motherto some distant country. Now at first he didnot agree to what Sarah was zealous for, andthought it an instance of the greatest bar­barity to send away a young child,§ and awoman unprovided of necessaries; but atlength he agreed to it, because God waspleased with what Sarah had determined; sohe delivered Ismael to his mother, as not yetable to go by himself, and commanded her totake a bottle of water, and a loaf of bread,**and so to depart, and to take necessity forher guide. But as soon as her necessary pro­visions failed, she found herself in an evilcase; and when the water was almost spent,she laid the young child, who was ready toexpire, under a fir-tree, and went on farther,so that he might die while she was absent;but a divine angel came to her, and told her Matthew xxvii. 63. Luke ii. 21. John xx. 26. This isReland's observation. § Josephus here calls Ismael, u^*iov, a young child, orinfant, though he were above 13 years of age, as Judas callshimself and his brethren vhg, young men, when he was47, when he had two children; and they were of muchthe same age as is a damsel of 12 years old called ira«5iov,or little child, Mark v. 39—42, five several times. Hero<lis also said by Josephus to be, vs'©^ -aavra..aa<tiv, a veryyoung man at 25; and Aristobulus is styled «ai8kv,«-av7airaffiv, a very little child, at 16 years of age. Antiq.XV. 2. Domitian is also called by him 'ravlcwraoWui, avery young child, when he went on his German expedition,at about 18 years of age. Of the war, VII. 4. Samson'swife, and Ruth, when she was a widow, are called -aa.T&tfchildren, Antiq. V. 8 and 9. Accordingly in Xenophon,we have uaTSsg for children, till 16 or 17 years of ageKip TlouS. Edit. Hutch, page 12. ** Gen. xxi. 14. ...•.,,,.!' ./'