OCR Output CHAP. L. 351 of the Mussulman empire, allowed an ample scope forevery bold and artful impostor, who claimed affinitywith the holy seed; the sceptre of the Almohades inSpain and Africa, of the Fatimites in Egypt and Syria,1of the sultans of Yemen, and of the sophis of Persia,"has been consecrated by this vague and ambiguous title.Under their reigns it might be dangerous to dispute thelegitimacy of their birth; and one of fthe Fatimite ca­liphs silenced an indiscreet question, by drawing hisscimitar. This (said Moez) is my pedigree; and these(casting a handful of gold to his soldiers), and these aremy kindred and my children. In the various conditionsof princes, or doctors, or nobles, or merchants, or beg­gars, a swarm of the genuine or fictitious descendantsof Mahomet and Al i is honoured with the appellation ofsheiks, or sherifs, or emirs. In the Ottoman empirethey are distinguished by a green turban, receive astipend from the treasury, are judged only by their chief,and, however debased by fortune or character, still as­sert the proud pre-eminence of their birth. A familyof three hundred persons, the pure and orthodox branchof the caliph Hassan, is preserved without taint or sus­picion in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, and stillretains, after the revolutions of twelve centuries, the cus­tody of the temple and the sovereignty of their nativeland. The fame and merit of Mahomet would ennoblea plebeian race, and the ancient blood of the Koreishtranscends the recent majesty of the kings of the earth." 1D'Horbelot, p. 32.1. The enemies of the Fatimites disgraced them by a Jew­ish origin. Yet they accurately deduced their genealogy from Jaafar, the sixthImam; and the impartial Abulfeda allows (Annal. Moslem, p. 230.) that theywere owned by many, qui absque controversi fLgenuini snnt Alidarum, homine pro-paginum su:c gentis exacte callentes. He quotes eome lines from the celebratedSkenfar Rhadi,—Egone humilitatem induam in terris hostium? (I suspect him tobe an Edrissite of Sicily) cum in .lEgypto sit Chalifa de gente Alii, quocum egocommunem habeo patrem ct vindicern. a The kings of Persia of the last dynasty are descended from Sheik Sefi, a saintof the fourteenth century and through him from Moussa Cassem, the son of Hosein,the son of All. (Clearms, p. 957. Chardin, torn. 3. p. S88.) But I cannot tracethe intermediate degrees in any genuine or fabulous pedigree. If they were trulyFatunitfs, they might draw their origin from the princes of Mazanderan, whoreigned in the ninth century. (d'Herbelot, p. 96.) b The present state of the family of Mahomet and Ali is most accurately de­