OCR Output 374 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. because it was not probable that one who,under such a want of all things, had failed ofnothing that was necessary Tor him, shouldbe found so wicked and ungrateful towardshis benefactor, that when it would be an in­stance of wickedness in him not to savehim, had he been treacherously assaultedby others, to endeavour to kill him with hisown hand. That, however, if he ought tosuppose this information to be true, it wasbetter for himself to be slain by the other,than to destroy a man who fled to him forrefuge, and intrusted his own safety to him,and committed himself to his disposal. So Johanan and the rulers that were withhim, not being able to persuade Gedaliah,went away. But after an interval of thirtydays, Ishmael came again to Gedaliah, to thecity Mispah, and ten men with him; and,when he had feasted Ishmael, and those thatwere with him in a splendid manner at histable, and had given them presents, he be­came disordered in drink, while he endea­voured to be merry with them. And whenIshmael saw him in that case, and that he wasdrowned in his cups to a degree of insensi­bility, and fallen asleep, he rose up on asudden, with his ten friends, and slew Geda­liah, and those that were with him at thefeast. And when he had slain them, he wentout by night, and slew all the Jews that werein the city, and those soldiers also that wereleft therein by the Babylonians. But thenext day eighty men came out of the countrywith presents to Gedaliah, none of themknowing what had befallen him. WhenIshmael saw them he invited them in toGedaliah; and, when they were come in, heshut up the court, and slew them, and casttheir dead bodies into a certain deep pit,that they might not be seen. But of theseeighty men Ishmael spared those that in-treated him not to kill them, till they haddelivered up to him what riches they hadconcealed in the fields; consisting of theirfurniture, garments, and corn. But he tookcaptive the people that were in Mispah, withtheir wives and children; among whom werethe daughters of king Zedekiah, whomNebu-zaradan the general of the army of Babylonhad left with Gedaliah. And when he haddone this, he came to the king of the Ammo­nites. But when Johanan, and the rulers withhim heard of what was done at Mispah, byIshmael, and of the death of Gedaliah, theyhad indignation at it, and every one of themtook his own armed men, and came suddenlyto fight with Ishmael; and overtook him atthe fountain of Hebron. And when thosethat were carried away captives by Ishmaelsaw Johanan and the rulers, they were veryglad, and looked upon them as coming totheir assistance. So they left him that hadcarried them captives, and came over to Jo­hanan. Then Ishmael, with eight men, fledto the king of the Ammonites. But Johanantook those whom he had rescued out of thehands of Ishmael, and the eunuchs, and theirwives, and children, and came to a certainplace called Mandra, and there they abodethat day; for they had determined to removefrom thence, and to go into Egypt; for fearlest the Babylonians should slay them, incase they continued in the country, and thatout of danger at the slaughter of Gedaliah,who had been set over it for governor. While they were under this deliberation,Johanan the son of Kareah, and the rulersthat were with him, came to Jeremiah the grophet, and desired that he would pray tood, that because they were at an utter lossabout what they ought to do, he would dis­cover it to them; and they sware that theywould do whatever Jeremiah should say tothem. And the prophet said he would betheir intercessor with God: it came to pass,that after ten days, God appeared to him, andsaid, he should inform Johanan, and theother rulers, and all the people, that hewould be with them while they continued inthat country, and take care of them, and keepthem from being hurt by the Babylonians, ofwhom they were afraid; but that he woulddesert them if they went into Egypt; andout of his wrath against them, would inflictthe same punishments upon them which theyknew their brethren had already endured.So when the prophet had informed Johanan,and the people, that God foretold thesethings, he was not believed, when he saidthat God commanded them to continue inthat country; but they imagined that he saidso to gratify Baruch, his own disciple, andbelied God; that he persuaded them to staythere, that they might be destroyed by the