OCR Output SIHAt. SINAI. 1003 irophifi mil the Sinae Ichlhyophagi. AmongBelies mentioned by Ptolemy, namely, Bramma,km, Cattigira, Acadra, Aspithra, Cocconagra,u, and Thinae or Sinae, the last was un-aedlT the most important, and was regarded by•ad others as the capital of the nation. It hasi conjectured to be Thin, in the province ofia\ or (Ten Sankin itaelf. It may be remarkedthe Sinae were anciently called Tbinae (Sikou);Kh it is atid that this form of their name onlytfrom the Arabic pronunciation of Sinae. (SeeJer.i p. 518; Ueaenius,//e6. Lex. p. 788.) Theturn in point of importance was Calligara,h both Ptolemy and Marcianus regard as the'placeof trade. [Cattioara.] [T.H.D.]MAI (lira Spot), the celebrated mountain ofa Fetraea. It, lion ever, lent its name to thee prainsula in which it was situated, whichtherefore first be described. It is formed bytforcalion of the Red Sea at its northern ex-ty, and is bounded by the Ileroopoliticus Sinusm of Suez) on the west, and the Aelaniticusl:ht Gvlfof Akaba) on the east, ending in theinni Promoutoriurn (Ras Mohammed). At thewn extremity of the Sea of Suez stood Arsinoe\ tod Aelana (Akaba), at the extremity of thethat bears its name. The caravan road of theHaj, which joins tbeae two towns, traverses a.eland of desert, now called Et-Tib—" the■r>*s of the Wandering,'* part of ancient■ol To the south of this road, the plateaudk formation is continued to Jtbel Tib, the'oot\ of Ptolemy, extending from the easternI western gulf, in a line slightly curved to the, and bounded in that direction by a belt oftoe, consisting of arid plains, almost withoutor signs of vegetation. To this succeeds thert of primitive granite formation, which tx-qnite to the southern cape, and runs into the•/ Akaba on the east, but is separated by ar strip of alluvial soil called El-Kda from the'f Sua. The northern part of the Tih isu> Scripture "the wilderness of I'aran"4 xii. 16, xiii. 3, xxxii. 8, &c), in whichraclitas abode or wandered during great part ofIty years; although Eusebius and St. Jerome,I be presently seen, identify this last with theana of Sin. This wilderness of Sin is com-■oppesed to be connected, in name and situa-tith Mount Sinai; but as the Israelites1 on the wilderness of Sin on leaving their en-wst by the Red Sea, the next station to'.tad. xvL I; Xumi. xxxiii. 10, 11), and•d it between Klim and Rephidim, whereled apparently left it (Exod xviL 1),—forah and Aluah are inserted between the two invt xxxiii. 12—14,— and yet bad not arrived■ (ver. 15; Exod. xvi. 1), it may be ques-ohrther the identification rests on solid ground,as and St, Jerome, who distinguish betweeneru of Sin and Sinai, yet appear to extendmer too far eastward. "The desert of Sin,""extends between the Red Sea and the< Sine; fur they came from the desert of Sinkidus, and thence to the desert of Sinai, nearSua, where Hoses received the dispensationLaw; bat this desert is the same as that ofI according to the Hebrew, but not accordingL.V.V The confusion indicated by this lastBuy be explained by the observations, 1 st,n, abich is a synonym" for the wilderness of , Kadesh" (A*um6. xx. 1, xxxiii. 36), is identicalin Greek with the Sin (i. e. Xlv); the 2 representingboth the y (tsadi) of |y and the Q (sameili) ofI'D ; and, 2dly, that instead of making Zin iden­tical with Kadesh, as it is in the Hebrew, the LXX.read so as to make "the desert of Paran," whichthey identify with " the desert of Kadesh," an in­termediate station between Sin and Mount Hor.(iVumA. xxxiii. 36, in LXX.) The wilderness of Sin, then, must be fixed to thenorthwest part of the granite district of the }»enin-sula between Serbal and the Red Sea, while Zin isnorth of Ezion Gcber, between it and Mount Hor,—the southern extremity in fact of Wady Musa, orthe Arabah, north of Akaba, With respect to Sinai, it is difficult to decide be­tween the rival claims of the two mountains, which,in modem as in ancient times, have been regardedas the Mountain of the Law. The one is Serbalabove-mentioned, situated towards the NW. ex­tremity of the granite district, towering with its fivesharp.pointed granite peaks above the fruitful andagreeable oasis of Wady Pharan, still marked byextensive ruins of the churches, convents, and build­ings of the old episcopal town of Paran; the otherbetween 30 and 40 miles south-east of Serbal, inthe heart of the granite district, where native tra­ditions, of whatever value, have affixed to themountains and valleys names connected with theinspired narrative of the giving of the. Law, andwhere the scenery is entirely in unison with theevents recorded. Emerging from the steep andnarrow valley Xakba Uawa, whose precipitous sidesrise to the perpendicular height of 1000 feet, intothe wide plain called HWy Mima, at the northernbase of the traditionary Horeb, Russegger describMthe scene as grand in the extreme. "Bare granitemountains, whose summits reach to a height of morothan 7000 Paris feet above the level of the sea;wonderful, I might say fabulous, forms encompass aplain more than a mile in length, in the backgroundof which lies the convent of St. Catharine, at thefoot of Jebel .Vita, between the holy Horeb on thewest, and Ebestimmi on the east." In this valley,then, formed at the base of Horeb by what may becalled a junction of the Wady-er-Rahiih and Waily-eth-Sheiib, but which, according to Russcgger's ex­press testimony, bears in this place the native nameof Wady Aftua, must the children of Israel haveencamped before Jebel Musa, whose nigged northerntermination, projected boldly into the plain, bearjtbe distinctive name of Rom Sasafah. Jebel Sliuarises to the height of 5956 Paris feet above thesea, but is far from being the highest of the group.Towering high above it, on the south, is seen thesummit of Horeb, having an elevation of 7097 Parisfeet, and south of that again Jebel Kalberina, morethan 1000 feet higher still (viz. 8168 Paris feet),all outtopped by Jtbel-om-Shomer, the highthis remarkable group, whirh attains an altitude of8300 Paris feet. Over against Jebel Mita on thonorth, and confining the valley in that direction, isthe spur of a mountain which retains in its name,Jebel Sena, a memorial of the ancient Scripture ap­pellation of the Mountain of the Law. To attemptanything like a full discussion of the questions atissue between the advocates of the conflicting tradi­tions or hypotheses, would be as inconsistent with thecharacter of such an article as this, as with thelimits which must be assigned it: a very few remarks