OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 121 escape 5 but the African and Gothic triumphs are chap.less glorious than this safe and bloodless victory, in xxxv-which neither fortune, nor the valour of the soldiers,can subtract any part of the general's renown. The a. d. 543,second removal of Belisarius from the Persian to the &c-Italian war revealed the extent of his personal merit,which had corrected or supplied the want of disci­pline and courage. Fifteen generals, without con­cert or skill, led through the mountains of Armeniaan army of thirty thousand Romans, inattentive totheir signals, their ranks, and their ensigns. Fourthousand Persians, entrenched in the camp of Dubis,vanquished, almost without a combat, this disorderlymultitude; their useless arms were scattered alongthe road, and their horses sunk under the fatigueof their rapid flight. But the Arabs of the Romanparty prevailed over their brethren; the Armeniansreturned to their allegiance; the cities of Dara andEdessa resisted a sudden assault and a regular siege,and the calamities of war were suspended by those ofpestilence. A tacit or formal agreement betweenthe two sovereigns protected the tranquillity of theeastern frontier; and the anns of Chosroes wereconfined to the Colchian or Lazic war, which hasbeen too minutely described by the historians of thetimes*. The extreme length of the Euxine sea-!-, from Description of Colchos,Lazica, or* The Lazic war, the contest of Rome and Persia on the Phasis, is tediously Mingrelia.spun through many a page of Procopius (Persic. 1. ii. c. 15. 17- 28, 29,30. Go­thic. 1. iv. c. 7—16), and Agathias (1. ii. hi. and iv. p. 55—132. 141). f The Periplut, or circumnavigation of the Euxine sea, was described in Latinby Sallust, and in Greek by Arrian. 1. The former work, which no longer exists,has been restored by the singular diligence of M. de Brosses, first president ofthe parliament of Dijon (Hist. de la Republique Romaine, tom. ii. 1. iii. p. 199—298) who ventures to assume the character ot the Roman historian. His descrip­tion of the Euxine is ingeniously formed of all the Fragments of the original, andof all the Greeks and Latins whom Sallust might copy, or by whom he might becopied; and the merit of the execution atones for the whimsical design. 2. ThePeriplus of Arrian is addressed to the emperor Adrian (in Geograph. Minor. Hud­son, tom, i.), and contains whatever the governor of Pontus had seen, from Tre-bizond to Dioscurias; whatever he had heard from Dioscurias to the Danube;and whatever he knew from the Danube to Trcbizond. r