OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST A PI ON. 431 are better than other men, both for moderation and suchvirtue as is agreeable to nature. Indeed, their endeavor wasto have every thing they ordained believed to be very ancient,tha.t they might not be thought to imitate others, but mightappear to have delivered a regular way of living to othersafter them. Since, then, this is the case, the excellency ofa legislator is seen in providing for the people's living afterthe best manner, and in prevailing with those that are to usethe laws he ordains for them to have a good opinion of them,and in obliging the multitude to persevere in them, and tomake no changes in them, neither in prosperity nor adversity.Now, I venture to say, that our legislator is the most ancientof all the legislators whom we have any where heard of; foras for the Lycurguses, and Solons, and Zaleucus Locrensis,and all those legislators which arc so admired by the Greeks,they seem to be of yesterday, if compared with our legislator,insomuch as the very name of a law was not so much knownas in old times among the Grecians. Homer is a witness tothe truth of this observation, who never uses that term in allhis poems; for, indeed, there was then no such thing amongthem, but the multitude was governed by wise maxims, andby the injunctions of their king. It was also a long time'that they continued in the use of these unwritten customs,although they were always changing them upon several occa­sions. But for our legislator, who was of so much greaterantiquity than the rest (as even those that speak against usupon all occasions do always confess,) he exhibited himselfto the people as their.best governor and counsellor, and in­cluded in his legislation the entire conduct of their lives, andprevailed with them to receive it, and brought it so to pass,that those that were made acquainted with his laws did mostcarefully observe them. 17. But let us consider his first and greatest work: forwhen it was resolved on by our forefathers to leave Egypt,and return to their own country, this Moses took the manyten thousands that were of the people, and saved them out 1 Viz. After the greatest part of the world had left off their obedience toGod, their original legislator. Seo Scripture Polities, page 6, 7.