OCR Output 472 OLBIA. OLBIAXUS SINUS, which records the exploits of Protogenes, who, inthe extreme distress of bis native city, aided it bothwith his purse anil person. Tltis inscription, ap­parently belonging to the period b.c.218—201,mentions the Gulatinns and Seiii (perhaps the sameas those who are afterwards found united with theHeroli and Rugii) as tlie worst enemies of Olbia, acle:ir proof that in the tlmd century B. c. Celtic tribeshad penetrated as far to the K. as the Bory&thenes.Dion Chrysostom (Orat. xxxvi. p. 76), who cametit Olbia when he escaped from Domitian's edict,relates how it had been destroyed by tin: Getaeabout 150 years before the date of his arrival, orabout it. c. 50, but had been restored by the old in­habitants. From the inscriptions it apjiears thatAugustus and Tiberius conferred favours on a cer­tain Ababns of Olbia (No. 2060), who, in gratitude,erected a portico in their honour (No. 208"), whileAntoninus Pius assisted them .i£uin.>t the Tauro-Scy-thiuns. (Jul.Capit. Anton. 9 ) The citizens erectedstatues to Caracal la and (iota (No. 2091). The citywa- in all probability destroyed in the invasion of theGoths a. D. 250, as the name d »es not nccur hence­forth in history. Tor coins of Olbia, be.sidos theworks already quoted, see Ec.khel, vol, ii. p. 3.(Pallas, Reite, vol. ii. p. 507; Clarke, Trap. vol. ii.p. 351 j Murawien Apostol's Reise, p. 27; Bockh,Inter, vol. ii. pp. 86—89; Niebuhr, KlrineSckrijt. p. 352: Schafarik, Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 397;Crtuzer, Heidelberg. Jahrbuch, 1822. p. 1235;Bahr, Excursus ad Herod, iv. 18.) [E. Ii. J. j COIN OP OLBIA. OXBTA ('OA§i'a: Eth. 'OAfianfe, Olhiensis:Terranocd), one of tlie most considerable cities ofSardinia, situated on the E. coast of the island notfar from its NE. extremity, in the innermost recessor bight of a deep bay now called the Golfo di Ter-ranova. According to Pausanias it was one of themost ancient cities in the island, having been foundedby the colony of Thespiadae under lolaus, the com­panion of Hercules, with whom were associated abody of Athenians, who founded a separata city,which they named Ogryle. (Pans. x. 17. § 5;Diod. iv. 29: Solin. 1. §61.) The name of Olbiacertainly seems to indicate that the city was ofGreek origin; but, with the exception of this myth­ical legend, we have no accounts of its foundation.After the Roman conquest of the island it becameone of the most important towns in Sardinia; andfrom its proximity to Italy and its opportune port,became the ordinary point of communication withthe island, anil the place where the Roman governorsand others who vi-.ited Sardinia usually landed.(Cic.a</ Q. Fr. ii. 3. § 7. 6. § 7 ) In the First PunicWar it was the scene of a naval enticement be­tween the cnn-.nl Cornelius and a Carthaginianfleet, which had taken refuse in its spacious port;hut was attacked and defeated there by Cornelius,who followed up his advantage by taking the city,B. G 259. (Zonar. viii. 11 : Flor. ii. 2. § 16; Val.M ix. v. 1. § 2.) In the Second Punic War (c. c.210) its territory was ravaged by a Carthaginian fleet. (Liv. xxvii. 6.) Under the mi^i of Hvnorius, Olbia is still mentioned by Clawiian » <mof the principal sea-ports of Sardinia; and thelttae-raries give more than one line of road pnxtediajfrom thence towards different jiarts of th< UUni.(Claudian, B. Gild. 519: I tin. Ant. ^ T9,S0.6t)The name is there written Libia: in tbe miaAlages it came to he known as Citita, and obtaiatiits modern apj-ellation of Terranotra from totSpaniards. Ptolemy distinguishes the port of Olbia ("Ofc»Stavbs A.i^crj*', iii. 3. § 4) from the city itsrlf: hiprobably applies this name to the whole of tatspacious bay or inlet now known as the Gtlf ^TerranovOy and the positiou given U that of tatentrance. [E. H. B.] \ O'LBIA ('OASio: EtL 'OAgtoiroXims, vs\ XJW6iav6s). Stephanus (s. v. '0\€ia) -.;eiks of SIcity of this name as a Lieurian city, by «bicaftlmeans the Olbia on the Ligurian coast of Gafisjfor the name Olbia appears to be Greek. Mcia5), who proceeds from east to we*t in enoithe cities on the Mediterranean coast of Gallia.Olbia between Forum JnlU (Frrjus) arid(Marseille"). The order of place is this: ForumAthenopoiis, Olbia, Taunts, Citharistes.Strata (iv. p. 184), who proceeds from weatliis enumeration of the cities of this coast,Massilia, Tauroentium, Olbia, and Antipciia,Nicaea. He adds that the port of Augustus,*they call Forum Julii, is between Olbia andtipolis (Antibes). The Ma.ssaliots built Olbia,tlte other plates on this coast, as a defence afthe Salyes and the Ligures of the Alps. (Sp. 180.) Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 8) pla«s OMaJtween the promontory Citharistes {Cap Cisf|and the mouth of the river Argenteus (Awest of Frejus. There is nothing that £xs*site of Olbia with precision; and we mnstD'Anville's conjecture that Olbia was at acalled Eoube, between Cap Combe and firrtws^Forbiger accepts the conjecture that Olbia %St. Trope*) which he supports by saying thai!places Olbia COO stadia from Mas* ilia: bat!places Forum Julii 600 stadia from M,- ;. [' O'LBIA ('OAfta). 1. A town in Bithnithe bay called, after it, the Sinus Olbianus (oosBiSinus Astacenus), was in all probability only siname for Astacus [Astacus]. Pliny (v. 4probably mistaken in saying that Olbia VIancient name for Nicaea in Bithynia: be ssiconfound Nicaea with Astacus. 2. The westernmost town on the coast of Hphylia. (Strab. xiv. pp. 666, foil.; PUn. «.!Ptolemy (v. 5. §2), consistently with this deacifclplaces it between Pltaselis and At talei*. StefUB. (*. r.) blames Philo for ascribing thisPamphyUa, since, as he asserts, it was sirterritory of the Solymi, and its real namebut the critic is here himself at fault,Olbia with the Plaid tan Olbasa. Stnaboour Olbia as a strong fortress, and it*colonised the Lyeian town of Cydrema. 3. A town of Cilicia, mentioned only bv SttfpfciBvz. (s. p.), who may possibly liave been tbink^the Cilician Olbasa or Olbe." [L$ OLBIA. [Oura.] OLBIA'NUS SIXCS (OAsW&j caXm^another name for the Sinus Asiacenu?, the MSIOlbia l»eing also called Astacus. (SctUx. p.comp. Astaci s, and Olbia, No. 1.) [L. &