OCR Output 48 VESPASIAN. [b. in. concealed recesses of the city: but as the city was first taken,he was assisted by a certain supernatural providence; for hewithdrew himself from the enemy, when he was in the midstof them, and leaped into a certain deep pit, whereto thereadjoined a large den at one side of it, which den could not beseen by those that were above ground; and here he met withforty persons of eminency that had concealed themselves, andwith provisions enough to satisfy them for not a few days.So in the day-time he hid himself from the enemy, who hadseized upon all places, and in the night-time he got up outof the den, and looked about for some way of escaping, andtook exact notice of the watch: but as all places were guardedevery where on his account, that there was no way of gettingoff unseen, he went down again into the den. Thus he con足cealed himself two days; but on the third day, when theyhad taken a woman who had been with them, he was dis足covered. Whereupon Vespasian sent immediately and zea足lously two tribunes, Paulinus and Gallicanus, and orderedthem to give Josephus their right hands as a security for hislife, and to exhort him to come up. 2. So they came and invited the man to come up, and gavehim assurances that his life should be preserved; but theydid not prevail with him, for ho gathered suspicions from theprobability there was that one who had done so many thingsagainst the Romans must suffer for it, though not from the mildtemper of those that invited him. However, he was afraid thathe was invited to come up in order to be punished, until Ves足pasian sent besides these a third tribune, Nicanor, to him;he was one that was well known to Josephus, and had beenhis familiar acquaintance in old time. AVhen ho was come,he enlarged upon the natural mildness of the Romans towardsthose they have once conquered, and told him that he hadbehaved so valiantly that the commanders rather admired thanhated him: that the general was very desirous to have himbrought to him, not in order to punish him, for that he coulddo though he should not come voluntarily, but that he wasdetermined to preserve a man of his courage. He, moreover,added this, that Vespasian, had he been resolved to impose