OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL they not already been the objects of secret contempt among thepolished and enlightened orders of society 7. Notwithstanding the fashionable irreligion which prevailed inthe age of the Antonines, both the interest of the priests, and thecredulity of the people, were sufficiently respected. In their writ­ings and conversation, the philosophers of antiquity asserted thedignity of reason; but they resigned their actions to the com­mands of law and of custom. Viewing, with a smile of pity andindulgence, the various errors of the vulgar, they diligently prac­tised the ceremonies of their fathers, devoutly frequented the tem­ples of the gods; and sometimes condescending to act a part on thetheatre of superstition, they concealed the sentiments of an Atheistunder the sacerdotal robes. Reasoners of such a temper werescarcely inclined to wrangle about their respective modes of faith, orof worship. It was indifferent to them what sliape the folly of themultitude might chuse to assume; and they approached, with thesame inward contempt, and the same external reverence, the altarsof the Libyan, the Olympian, or the Capitoline Jupiter s. It is not easy to conceive from what motives a spirit of persecu­tion could introduce itself into the Roman councils. The magis­trates could not be actuated by a blind, though honest bigotry,since the magistrates were themselves philosophers; and the schoolsof Athens had given laws to the senate. They could not be impelledby ambition or avarice, as the temporal and ecclesiastical powerswere united in the fame hands. The pontiffs were chosen amongthe most illustrious of the senators; and the office of Supreme Pon­tiff was constantly exercised by the emperors themselves. Theyknew and valued the advantages of religion, as it is connected withcivil government. They encouraged the public festivals whichhumanize the manners of the people. They managed the arts ofdivination, as a convenient instrument of policy; and they respected,as the firmest bond of society, the useful persuasion, that either in this