OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 189 The new commander-in-chief, Gaius Marius, appeared Roman do.in 650 beyond the Alps, followed by a number of expe- fensl.^f;rienced officers—among whom the bold captor of Jugurtha,Lucius Sulla, soon acquired fresh distinction—and by anumerous host of Italian and allied soldiers. At first hedid not find the enemy against whom he had been sent.The singular people, who had conquered at Arausio, had inthe mean time (as we have already mentioned), after plunder­ing the country to the west of the Rhone, crossed the Pyre­nees and were carrying on a desultory warfare in Spainwith the brave inhabitants of the northern coast and of theinterior; it seemed as if the Germans wished at their veryfirst appearance on the historic stage to display their wantof persevering grasp. So Marius found ample time on theone hand to reduce the revolted Tectosages to obedience,to confirm afresh the wavering fidelity of the subject Gallicand Ligurian cantons, and to obtain support and contin­gents within and without the Roman province from the allieswho were equally with the Romans placed in peril by theCimbri, such as the Massiliots, the Allobroges, and theSequani; and on the other hand, to discipline the armyintrusted to him by strict superintendence and impartialjustice towards noble and ignoble, and to prepare the soldiersfor the more serious labours of war by marches and exten­sive works of entrenching—particularly the construction ofa canal of the Rhone, afterwards handed over to the Mas­siliots, for facilitating the passage of the transports sentfrom Italy to the army. He maintained a strictly defensiveattitude, and did not cross the bounds of toe Roman pro­vince. At length, apparently in the course of 651, the wave 108.of the Cimbri, after having broken itself in Spain on thebrave resistance of the native tribes and especially of theCeltiberians, flowed back again over the Pyrenees andthence, as it appears, passed along the shore of the AtlanticOcean, where everything from the Pyrenees to the Seinesubmitted to the terrible invaders. There, on the confinesof the brave confederacy of the Belgae, they first encounteredserious resistance; but thero also, while they were in theterritory of the Vellocassi (near Rouen), considerable rein­forcements reached them. Not only three cantons of the The Cimbri,Helvetii, including the Tigorini and Tougeni who had T"lt"n!'R-formerly fought against the Romans at the Garonne, asso- ?!) untteTC"ciated themselves, apparently about this period, with the