OCR Output j2 the axnaiS [A.U. C. 768. demagogue. Among the deputies sent to Germani-cus, was Segimund, the son of Segestes; a youngman who, in the year famous for the revolt of Ger­many, was made by the Romans a priest of thoUbian altar; but soon after, fired by the zeal thatroused his whole nation, he tore off his sacred vest­ments, and went over to his countrymen. Consciousof this offence, he hesitated for some time, willing todecline the embassy; till at length, encouraged'by thefame of Roman clemency, he obeyed his father's or­ders. He met with a gracious reception; and, undera proper guard, was conducted in safety to the fron­tiers of Gaul. Germanicus thought it of moment tochange his purpose, and marched back to the relief ofSegestes. He no sooner appeared-before the place," than the enemy was attacked and put to the rout.Segestes was set at liberty, and with him a nu­merous train of relatives and faithful followers;several women of noble birth; and, in the number,the daughter of Segestes, then married to Arminius.In her deportment no trace appeared of her father'scharacter: she breathed the spirit of her husband.Not a tear was seen to start; no supplicating tonewas heard; she stood in pensive silence; her handsstrained close to her bosom, and her eyes fixed uponher womb, then pregnant with the fruit of her mar­riage. At the same time was brought forth a load ofspoils, which, in the slaughter of Varus and his le­gions, fell to the share of those who now surrenderedto the Roman arms. What chiefly attracted everyeye, was Segestes himself; his stature of superior size,and his countenance that of a man who knew neitherguilt nor fear. He spoke to this effect: LVIII. " It is not now the first time that Segestes"has given proofs'of his attachment to the cause of" Rome. From the moment when I was enrolled a"citizen by the deified Augustus, your interest has'" been the rule of my conduct. Your friends I em-" braced; your enemies were mine. In acting thus, I" have not been guilty of treason to my country. A" traitor I know is odious, even to those who profit by" the treason. I have been your friend, because I