OCR Output 78 livy. another. It was judged best that they should join hitrisecretly in the night. 46. Orders were previously given by the consul Li-vius, that, on their arrival, each tribune should beaccommodated with a lodging by a tribune, each cen­turion by a centurion, each horseman by a horseman,and each footman by a footman. He considered thatit would not be prudent to enlarge the camp, lest theenemy might discover the coming of the second cou-sul; while the crowding together of additional num­bers, into lodgings in a narrow space, would be at­tended with the less inconvenience, as the troops ofClaudius had brought with them hardly any thing ex­cept their arms. Claudius had augmented his armywith a number of volunteers; for many, both veteransoldiers discharged from service, and young men, of­fered themselves on his march; and, as they eagerlypressed to be employed, he enlisted such of them as,from their personal appearance, seemed fit for theservice. The camp of Livius was near Sena, andHasdrubal lay about five hundred paces beyond it.Wherefore Nero, to avoid entering it before night,halted when he came nigh, and where he was con­cealed behind mountains. As darkness came on, hismen, marching silently, were conducted into tents,each by a person of his own rank; where they werehospitably entertained, amid mutual congratulationsand unbounded joy. Next day a council was held, atwhich was also present the pretor Lucius Porcius Li-cinus. At this time his camp was joined to that of theconsuls. It should however be noticed, that beforetheir coming he had often baffled and perplexed theenemy, leading his troops along the high ground;sometimes seizing narrow defiles to arrest his march,sometimes harassing him by attacks on his rear orflanks, and putting in practice, indeed, every art ofwar. He now assisted at the council. Many were ofopinion that an engagement should be deferred untilNero might refresh his men, who were fatigued bytheir long march, and want of sleep; and also, that he