OCR Output 1002 SIMUNDU. Colylus, and passing by IHon, joined the Scamanderbelow that city. This river is frequently spoken ofin the Iliad.and described asa rapid mountain Torrent.(IL iv. 475, v. 774. xii. 22. xxi. 308; comp.Aeschyl. Agnm. 692; Strab. xiii. p. 597; PtoL v.2. § 3; Steph. B. s. v.; Fornp. Mela, i, 18; Plin. r.33: and Scamander.) Its present name is JJum-brek Chat, and at present its course is so altered thatit is no longer a tributary of the Scamander, butflows directly into the Hellespont [L. S.] SIMUXDU. [Tapuobane.] S1MYLLA (SipvAAa, Ptol. Tii. 1. § 6), a com­mercial entrepot on the western coast of liindostan,in the district called 'Aptana SaSiWftV. It is noticedin the Peri pi Ql by the name of StjjUt/AAa, and wasprobably at or near Basstin, a little X. of Bom-bay. t [V] SI'MYHA (Si^ifpa). a maritime city nf Phoeniciamentioned by Pliny in connection with Marathusand Antaradus, N. of Tripolis, Orthosis, and theriver Kleutherus (v. 20). It is placed by Ptolemybetween the mouth of the Kleutherus and Orthosia,and, if the figures can be trusted, 10* west of theformer, 14' north; in the same latitude with Or­thosia (i. e. 34° 40'), but 40' east of it, whichwould seem either to imply an ignorance of thecoast, or to intimate that Simyra lay at some dis­tance fr<>m the shore, and that the Eleatherus ransouthward to the sea. Strsbo says that it was oc­cupied hy the Aradians, to ether with the neigh­bouring Marathus (xvi. p. 753), apparently placingit north of the Elrutherus. In addition to what hasbeen said under Ma RATH US, and in confirmation ofthe identification there attempted, the following maybe cited from Shaw, and will serve to illustrate thesituation of Simyra: " The ancient Marathus mayhe fixed at some nuns near the Serpent Fmtntain,which make, with tiou-tcaddr and Tortosa, almostan equilateral triangle. About 5 miles from theriver Akkert and 24 to the SSE of Tortosa, thereare other considerable ruins known by the name ofiynmrakt with several rich plantations of mulberryand other fruit trees growing in and round aboutthem. These, from the very name and situation,can be no other than the remains of the ancientSimyra . .. the seat formerly of the Zemarites. Plinyv. 20) makes Simyra a city of Coelesyria. and ac­quaints us that Mount Libanus ended there to thenorthward; but as Sttmrah lies in the Jeune (i.e.the great plain), 2 leagues distant from thatmountain, this circumstance will better fall in withArea, where Mount Libanus is remarkablv brokenoff and discontinued." {Travels, pp. 2G8, 269.) Theruins of Area are 5 miles E. of Sumrah, and 2 leaguesWSW. of Area is the Sakr-el-Berd, the ColdHirer, which Shaw and others identity with the Kleu­therus. It is manifest how irreconcilable all thisis with Ptolemy and other ancient geographers.[Eleuthkrus; Ortho&la; Marathus.] [G.W.lSIN A. [Sena.] SIXAE (oi liVai, Ptol. vii. 3. Sec), the ancientnation of the Chinese, whose land is first describedby Ptolstnj {I.e.) and Marcianus (p. 29, 6M.Y hutin an unsatisfactory manner. Indeed, the wholeknowledge of it possessed by the Greeks and Humansrested on the reports of individual merchants whohad succeeded in gaining admittance among a peoplewho then, as in modern times, isolated themselves asmuch as possible from the rest of the world. Eurthe assumption which Deguignes sought to es­tablish, thai a ]>olitical alliance was formed between 'Rome and Chin, si ; which that wri'er .'nese annals, and m, great suspicion. (p. 71.) Accordiucthe country of the 5and w^s ceon^ctedan unknown land,«a large mediterranadefine its eastern btof the known earthtude, without, boitracts of unknown \Cosmas IndicopieaPitU —i, iL p. 337Sinae T^rrrfo, wjI correct boundary bt X. it was bounded by India extra GanjI by the river Aspithiand the SemanthiDej the southern half oi1 Further India, as| boja, &c. Ptolem;'and promontories c1 NE. of the IndianSinae abutted on Ft(of Siam), whichformed by the Sod(probably Cape Canby another large ]mania). To the S.and the Care ofPtolemy and Mamabay called Theriodithe S. of the Cape cand the mouth of tfaSinae C2,itwv k6\tccorrect accounts dcany confidence resjPtolemy; but it ha;of the Satyrs may IThe nodes Sinus theof the river Cnmfathe Sinae the gulfmountains of the cMoiites SenMnihiui \its NW. boundary,are the Aspuhra (*tains just inentioneluded; the AmbasCambtjn, which felthe town of BramiSainos (2t*M or 2<ther still in the sair tapis), which emnlSinae to the N. of tlmay perhaps be DMself at Canton. Kethemselves, we havementions several sufcthe Semanthini, onof them the Aeadonand again to the S, 1and having a city (SE. of the latter, oron the river Amhustin a still more southTberioda and that t