OCR Output 330 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. the meanest passions often combine to produce it in the samebreast. The soldiers of Sulla voluntarily according to theRoman custom swore mutual oaths that they would standfirmly by each other, and each voluntarily brought to thegeneral his savings as a contribution to the costs of the war.But considerable as was the weight of this solid and selectbody of troops in comparison with the masses of the enemy,Sulla saw very well that Italy could not be subdued withfive legions if it remained united in resolute resistance.To settle accounts with the popular party and their inca­pable autocrats would not have been difficult; but he sawopposed to him and united with that party the whole massof those who desired no oligarchic restoration with itsterrors, and above all the whole body of new burgesses—boththose who had been prevented by the Julian law from takingpart in the insurrection, and those whose revolt a few yearsHis mode- before had brought Rome to the brink of ruin. Sulla fullyration. surveyed the situation of affairs, and was far removed fromthe blind exasperation and the obstinate rigour which charac­terized the majority of his party. While the edifice of thestate was in flames, while his friends were being murdered,his houses destroyed, his family driven into exile, he hadremained undisturbed at his post till the public foe wasconquered and the Roman frontier was secured. He nowtreated Italian affairs in the same spirit of patriotic andjudicious moderation, and did whatever he could to pacify themoderate party and the new burgesses, and to prevent thecivil war from assuming the far more dangerous form of afresh war between the old Romans and the Italian allies.The first letter which Sulla addressed to the senate had askednothing but what was right and just, and had expresslydisclaimed a reign of terror. In harmony with its terms,he now presented the prospect of unconditional pardon to allthose who should even now break off from the revolutionarygovernment, and caused his soldiers man by man to swearthat they would meet the Italians thoroughly as friends andfellow-citizens. The most binding declarations secured tothe new burgesses the political rights which they had ac­quired; so that Carbo, for that reason, wished hostages tobe furnished to him by every civic community in Italy, butthe proposal broke down under general indignation andunder the opposition of the senate. The chief difficulty inthe position of Sulla really consisted in the fact, that in