OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 847 m themselves, in order to build the CanreUi ami toe Palazzo Famese with the materials.b/o, however, is still left tu render it one of the most striking and important monuments of imperialRome. Its name of Colosseum, first mentioned byUedc (ap. Ducange, Gloss, ii. p. 407, ed. Bus.) uiaiSiBisiaiipgggpgaagiBi .; .11 ;i jTi^-irtiTtfiiTiiwiTiti^ iiiKiiisiaiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ELEVATION OF COLOSSEUM. aW tii form Coljitus, was either derived from> ust im at the building, or, more probably,m :tx nkamu of Xero, which stood close to itw Sbby, fttlT Anftentro Flavio, in the Ap­ril to Sardini, i. p. 238, which contains the■ history of the building down to modem times.) ti* AvmTHtATnirM Castrense, near S. Croce, Un already spoken [p. 827]. XVI. The Thermae, or Baths. ft. donate, propose to speak here only of thoseI* pabbc institutions which were open eitherfc> « fcr a mere trifle to all, and of which theI *a» the Thermae Agrh-pae, near his I'an-». The thermae most not be regarded as meressc, or places for bathing. They likewise con-«f ;,mmh'h, or places for gymnastic exercises;■Hs, or rooms for the disputations of philo-n>; is well as apartments for the delivery of lec->. Ac. The thermae of Agrippa do not seem toikttasa splendid as some of the subsequent ones;'■bath they suffered in the fire under Titus,'ra* preserved till a late period, and are men-a am than once by Martial (iii. 20.15, 36.6).'"Mae Xkhomavae were erected by Nero•arts those of Agrippa (Tac Ann. xiv. 47; * Sn, 12). After their restoration by Alex-r Seieros, who appears, however, to have alsofd them (Lamprid. Alex. 25), they obtained■» «f Thermae Alexasdrijcae (Cassiod. * "i ii. p. 194, Bone.). They must havev"to the Piazsa Xatom and the Pantheon,■7 ore thrice mentioned by the Anonymous of n the latter building and the Circusis the name he applied to theHence the probability that thejart Darned was the Stadium of Nero. Theaat Keronsaoaa are frequently mentioned in»thai iadicates cfwiderable splendour (Mart. ii.'- r-: 34. i; Stat. A'lVc. i. 5. G2): but their''u obliterated by that of the Thermae Alex-ax. by which they appear in the Motitia. * liurd baths erected at Rome were theBiai Im, on the Esquiline, near the Fla- mfteheatre. (Mart. Speel. 2). There are■aaaoanvble remains of these baths; but theof then is difficult to make out, from their Ei erected on the site of a large previousCasina's account of them is the besttrie Romane di Antickita, vol. ii. p. 119,ax. s-101). The site on which they stand was|p*jni'aajar/ occupied by the golden house ofJ Sexr them stand the Thermae Trajahi,ICniaa has correctly distinguished from thoseItChAr, Regional, p. 126; Becker, Handb. I in the Not'tUa as distinct. and also in the Chroniclers, who however, singularlyenough, place the building of both in the reign ofDoinitian. (Cassiod. Chron, vol. ii. p. 197, Rone;Hieron. vol. i. p. 443.) The baths of Titus hadbeen run up very expeditiously (;< velocia munera,"Mart. Sped. 2; " thennis juxta ctleriter extructis,"Suet. TU. 7), and might consequently soon stand inneed of restorations; and it Menu not improbable,as Becker suggests {Handb. p. 687), that Trajan,whilst he repaired these, also built his own at theside of them, before he had yet arrived at the impe­rial dignity. Cassiodorus (I.e.) expressly mentionsthe year 90. Those actually built by Trajan musthave been the smaller ones lying to the NE. of thoseof Titus, since Anastasius mentions the church ofS. Martina de Monti as being built "juxta thermasTrajanas" (Vit. Symmachi, p. 88, Blanch.). Hisobject in building them may have been to separatethe baths of the sexes; for the men and women hadhitherto bathed promiscuously: and thus the Catal.Imp. Vienn. notes, under Trajan: "Hoc Imperat.mulieres in Termis Trajan is laverunt." The emperor Coinmodus, or rather his freedmanCleander in his name, is related to have builtsome baths (Lampr. Comm. 17; Herod. L 12);and we find the Thermae Commouianae setdown in the 1st Region in the Notitia; whilst, bythe Anonymous of Einsiedlen, on the contrary, theyare three or four times mentioned as close to theRotunda. Their history is altogether obscure andimpenetrable. The Thermae Severianak arealso recorded in the Nvtit'ta in the 1st Region inconnection with the Commodinnae. They are men­tioned hy Lampridius (Sever. 19); but no traces ofthem remain. The Thermae Antomnianae or Caracallaepresent the most perfect remains of any cf theRoman baths, and from their vastness cannot failto strike the spectator with astonishment. Thelarge hall was regarded in antiquity as inimitable.(Spart. Carac. 9, Sever. 21.) They were dedicatedby Caracalla; but Elagabalus commenced the outerporticoes, which were finished by Alexander Severus.(Lampr. HeL 17, Alex. 25.) They are situatedunder the church of S. Balbina, on tile right of theVia Appin. But the largest of all the baths at Rome were theThermae Dioci.etianae. Unfortunately they arein such a mined state that their plan cannot betraced so perfectly as that of the baths of Cara­calla, though enough remains to indicate their vastextent They are situated on the inside of theagger of Servius, between the ancient Porta Collinaand Porta Viminalis. Vopiscus mentions them inconnection with the Bibliotheca Ulpia, which theycontained {Prob. 2). These were followed by the