OCR Output 138 LIVY. which conduct he inspired his soldiers with ardor tomeet both toil and danger. Quintus Fabius, procon足sul, fought a pitched battle with the armies of theSamnites, near the city of Allifae. The victory wascomplete. The enemy were driven from the field, andpursued to their camp; nor would they have keptpossession of that had not the day been almost spent.It was invested however before night, and guardeduntil day, lest any should slip away. Next morning,while it was scarcely clear day, they proposed to capi足tulate, and it was agreed that such as were natives ofSamnium should be dismissed with single garments.AH those were sent under the yoke. No precautionwas taken in favor of the allies of the Samnites : theywere sold by auction, to the number of seven thousand.Those who declared themselves subjects of the Herni-cians were kept by themselves under a guard. Allthese Fabius sent to Rome to the senate; and, afterbeing examined, whether it was in consequence of apublic order, or as volunteers, that they had carriedarms on the side of the Samnites against the Romans,they were distributed among the states of the Latinesto be held in custody ; and it was ordered that the newconsuls, Publius Cornelius Arvina and Quintus Mar-cius Tremulus, who by this time had been elected,should lay that affair intire before the senate [A.U.C.447. B.C. 305] : this gave such offence to the Hernici-ans that, at a meeting of all the states, assembled bythe Anagnians in the circus called the Maritime, thewhole nation of the Hernicians, excepting the Alatri-ans, Ferentines, and Verulans, declared war againstthe Roman people. 43. In Samnium also, in consequence of the depar足ture of Fabius, new commotions arose. Calatia andSora, and the Roman garrisons stationed there, weretaken, and the prisoners treated with extreme cruelty :Bublius Cornelius was therefore sent thither with anarmy. The command against the new enemy (for bythis time an order had passed for declaring war againstthe Anagnians and the rest of the Hernicians) was de足