OCR Output LAGUSA. 117 LAMIA. in bis map, identifies it with Folyaegu!". (Strab. x.fk 484: Steph. B. s. v.; Eustath. ad II. ii. 623,p. 306.) LAGI7SA (Adyowra), one of a group of smalli-Und-s in the bay of Telmissns in Lyeia, 5 stadiafrom Telmissns, and 80 from Cissidae. (I'lin. v. 35;Sleph. B. t. r.; Sladiasm. Mar. Mag. § 226, foil.)This island is generally considered to be the sameas the modem Panagia di Cordialissa. [L. S.] LAGl'SSAE, a group of small islands oft' thecoast of Troy, to the north of Tenedos (l'lin. v. 38;eomp. Enstath. ad Horn. IL ii. p. 306). Their mo­dern name is Taochan Adassi. [L. S.] LAISH, the more ancient name of Dan. [Dan.] LALASIS (AoAoffls, Ptol. v. 8. § 6, where someMSS. have AaA<un's), a district in Cilicia, extendinglion* Mount Taurus, above the district called Se-lrntis. Pliny (t. 23) also mentions a town Lalasisin Isauria, and this town accordingly seems to havebeen the capital of the district Lalasis, which mayhart extended to the north of Mount Taurus. It isprobable, moreover, that the Isaurian town of La~liemda, mentioned by Stephanus B., and which, heays, was in his day called Dalisanda, is the same»s Lalasis: and if so, it is identical with theDalisjnda of Hiorocles (p. 710). Basilius of Se-leoria informs us that the town stood on a loftybright, but was well provided with water, and notdestitute of other advantages. (Wesscling, ad HierocLI e.). From all these circumstances, we mightb? inclined to consider the reading Aa\atris inPtolemy the correct one, were it not that the coinsf>f the place all bear the inscription Aa\aatriw.(Se.tini. p. 96.) [L. S.] LALEXESIS (AaAniwfv or Aaioivtals, Ptol. v.'• § 6), a small town in the district of Melitene inArmenia Minor, on the east of Zoropossus. Its sitei» unknown, and no ancient writer besides PtolemyxDentiomj it. [L. S.] LALETA-XI. [Laeetasi.] LAMA. [Vet-tomes.] LAMASBA (/ft'n. Ant. pp. 35, ter, 40: La-Mjiua, Tab. Peut.), a city of the Massylii, in theinterior of Numidia, near the confines of Mauretania,52 M. P. from Smri, and 62 from Tamugadi.lapeaod D'Avezac identify it with Ain-IIazel, ntthe N. foot of the mountains of the Welkd-Abd-en-S(jvr; but its site seems to agreo better with thertGsiderable ruins at Bailna, on the S. of thanenmnUius, and W. of the M. Aurasius (Jebel-Awat: Sliaw, Travels, dv. p. 52; Pcllissier,i-rjAuraliuH Scientifique de lAlgerie, vol. vi. p.389)." [P. S.] LAMBEE or LAMBRUS, a river of NorthernItaly, in Gallia Transpadana, noticed by Plinyan «»the affluents* of the Padus which join that river« iti left or northern bank. (Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.)h is still called the Lambro, and rises in a smalllake called the Logo di Pusiano (the Eupilis Lacusrf Puny), from whence it flows within 3 miles ofWlm, and enters the Po about midway between theTkmo and the Adda. Sidonius Apollinaris con­sists its stagnant and weedy stream (uleosum Lam-f™») with the blue waters of the Addua. (Ep.i 5.) The Tabula as well as the Geographer ofKuenm give a town of the name of Lambrum, of»i>*b no trace U found elsewhere. It is probably* ernption of a station, Ad Lambrum, at the puss-■P rf the river of that name, though the Tabula"rawwly transfers it to the S. side of the Padus.( rot Peut.; Geo-r. Kav. iv. 30.) [E. II. B.J LAMBE'SE (Itin. Ant. pp. 32,33,34,40: Tab.Peut.; AdVSeuVa, PtoL iv. 3. § 29; Lambaesa,Inscr.; Lambaese, Augustin. adv. Donat. vi. 13;Lambesitana Colonia, Cyprian. Epiit. 55: Lembaor Tezzout, large Ru.), one of the most importantcities in the interior of Numidia, belonging to theMassylii. It lay near the confines of Mauretania,at the W. foot of M. Aurasius (Jebel Auress), 102M. P. from Sitifi, 118 from Thrvkste, and 84from Cikta. It was the station of an entire legion,the Legio III. Augusta (Atytltov rpinj atSaar-f),Ptol. I c.; and Inscr.). Its importance is attested byits magnificent ruins, among which are seen the re­mains of an amphitheatre, a temple of Aesculapius, atriumphal arch, and other buildings, enclosed by awall, in the circuit of which 40 gates have beentraced, 15 of them still in a good state of pre­servation. The silence of Procopius respecting sucha city seems to imply that it had been destroyedbefore the age of Justinian. (Shaw, Travels, p. 57;Bruce; Peysonnel; Peiltesier, ExplorationScientiJique.de tAlgrrie, vol. vi. pp. 388, 389.) [P. S.] LAMBM'ACA or LAMBRTCA, a town of theCallaici Lucenses in Gallaecia, near the confluenceof the rivers Laeron and Ulla, not far from EUPadron. (Mela, iii. I. § 8; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. I.p. 439.) [P. S.] LAMETI'NI (Aa/unru'oi), a city of Bruttium,mentioned only by Stephanus of Byzantium (». ».),on the authority of Hecataeus, who added that therewas a river also of the name of Lametus (AaVirroy).We find this again alluded to by Lycophron. (Alex.1085.) There can be no doubt that this is the6tream still called Lamato, which flows into thegulf of Sta. Eufemia: and this is confirmed by theauthority of Aristotle, who gives to that gulf, other­wise known as the Sinus Terinaeus or Hip-poniates, the name of the Lametine Gui.f (iAciutjtu'oi k6\itos, Arist. Pol. vii. 10). Hencethere can be little doubt that the city of Lametinialso was situated on the shores of the same bay,though Stephanus vaguely calls it " near Crotona."(Steph. B. I. c.) No other writer mentions the name(which is evidently an ethnic form like Leontini),and it is probable that the town was destroyed orsunk into a dependent condition at an early period.An inscription, which records it as an existing mu­nicipal town in the time of Trajan, is almost cer­tainly spurious. (Mommsen, Inscr. Reqn. Nenp.App. No. 936.) It is generally supposed to havebeen situated either at or near the modern village ofSta. Eufemia, but this is mere coi jecture. [E.ll.B] LA'MIA (Aciuia: Eth. Aaputis : Zib'mi). a townof the Malienses, though afterwards separated fromthem, situated in the district Phthiotis in Thcssaly.Strabo describes Lamia as situated above the plainwhich lies at the foot of the Miliar gulf, at thodistance of 30 stadia from the Sperchcius, and50 stadia from tho sea (ix. pp. 433, 435). Livysays that it was placed on a height distantseven miles from Heracleia, of which it com­manded the prospect (xxxvi. 25), and on the routewhich led from Thermopylae through the parses ofPhthiotis to Thaumaci (xxxii. 4). Strabo furtherrelates that it was subject to earthquakes (i. p. 60).Lamia is celebrated in history on account of the warwhich the Athenians and the confederate Greekscarried on against Antipatcr in B.C. 323. Antipatcrwas at first unsuccessful, and took refuge in Lamia,where he was besieged for some time by the allies.From this circumstance this contest is usually called 13