OCR Output 216 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. collars incrusted with gold. The ambassadors, contentv with such liberal reception, departed from Constanti­nople, and Valentin, one of the emperor's guards, wassent with a similar character to their camp at the footof mount Caucasus. As their destruction or their suc­cess must be alike advantageous to the empire, he per­suaded them to invade the enemies of Rome; and theywere easily tempted, by gifts and promises, to gratifytheir ruling inclinations; These fugitives, who fled be­fore the Turkish arms, passed the Tanais and Borysthe-nes, and boldly advanced into the heart of Poland andGermany, violating the law of nations, and abusing therights of victory. Before ten years had elapsed, theircamps were seated on the Danube and the Elbe, manyBulgarian and Sclavonian names were obliterated fromthe earth, and the remainder of their tribes are found,as tributaries and vassals, under, the standard of theAvars. The chagan, the peculiar title of their king,still affected to cultivate the friendship of the emperor;and Justinian entertained some thoughts of fixing themin Pannonia, to balance the prevailing power of theLombards. But the virtue or treachery of an Avar be­trayed the secret enmity and ambitious designs of theircountrymen; and they loudly complained of the timid,though jealous policy, of detaining their ambassadors,and denying the arms which they had been allowed topurchase in the capital of the empire.1, Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions ofthe emperors, may be ascribed to the embassy whichEmhassies was received from the conquerors of the Avars.™ TheTurk's and immense distance, which eluded their arms, could not Rotians, A. D. 569- ...... 58 j. 1 The emhassies and first conquests of the Avars may bo read in Menander, (Er- cerpt. Legat. p. 99—101. 154,155.) Theophanes, (p. 196.) the Historic. Misoella,.(lib. 16. p. 109.)and Gregory ofTours. (lib. 4. c. 23.29.inthe Historians ofFrance, tom. 2. p. 214. 217.) , m Theophanes, (Chron. p. 204.) and the Hist. Misoella, (lib. 16. p..110.) asunderstood by De Guignes, (tom. 1. part 2. p. 354.) appear to speak of a Turkishemhassy to Justinian himself;- but that of Maniach, in the fourth year of his suc­cessor Justin, is positively the first that reached Constantinople. (Menander, p. 108.)