OCR Output 472 ROMAN EMPIRE. was meditated, above the usual spirit of the Greeks, ofburning the naval stores of the enemy, the cypress tim足ber that had been hewn in mount Libanus, and was piledalong the sea-shore of Phoanicia, for the service of theEgyptian fleet. This generous enterprise was defeated bythe cowardice or treachery of the troops, who, in the newlanguage of the empire, were styled of the obsequiantheme} They murdered their chief, deserted their stand足ard in the isle of Rhodes, dispersed themselves over theadjacent continent, and deserved pardon or reward byinvesting with the purple a simple officer of the revenue.The name of Theodosius might recommend him to thesenate and people; but, after some months, he sunk intoa cloister, and resigned, to the firmer hand of Leo, theIsaurian, the urgent defence of the capital and empire.The most formidable of the Saracens, Moslemah, thebrother of the caliph, was advancing at the head of onehundred and twenty thousand Arabs and Persians, thegreater part mounted on horses or camels; and the suc足cessful sieges of Tyana, Amorium, and'Pergamus, wereof sufficient duration to exercise their skill, arid to elevate.their hopes. At the well-known passage of Abydus onthe Hellespont, the Mahometan arms were transported,for the first time, from Asia to Europe. From thence,wheeling round the Thracian cities of the Propontis,Moslemah invested Constantinople on the land side, sur足rounded his camp with a ditch and rampart, preparedand planted his engines of assault, and declared, bywords and actions, a patient resolution of expecting thereturn of seed-time and harvest, should the obstinacy ofthe besieged prove equal to his own. The Greeks wouldgladly have ransomed their religion and empire, by afine or assessment of a piece of gold on the head of each 1 In the division of the thema, or provinces described by Constantine Porphyro-genitus de Tkematibus, (lib. 1. p. 9, 10.) the obuqutum, a Latin appellation of thearmy and palace, was the fourth in the public order. Nice was the metropolisand its jurisdiction extended from the Hellespont over the adjacent parts ofBithynia and Phrygia. (See the two maps prefixed by Deliele to the ImperiumOrientals of Banduri,)