OCR Output 174 LIBARNA. LIBNIUS. are found principally towards the north of the range(liobinson, Bibl. Res. vol. iii. pp. 440, 441), parti­cularly in the vicinity of a Maronite village namedKhtlen, doubtless identical with the "Eden" ofE/.ekicl (xxxi. 16), in the neighbourhood of whichthe finest specimens of the cedars were even thenfound. They had almost becomo extinct, — onlyeii:iit ancient trees can now be numbered.—when, afew years ago, the monks of a neighbouring conventwent to the pains of planting some five hundredtrees*, which are now carefully preserved, and willperpetuate the tradition of the *' cedars of Lebanon"to succeeding generations. The fact remarked bySt. Jerome, of the proper name of the mountainbeing synonymous with frankincense, both in Greekand Hebrew, has given rise to the idea that themountain produced this odoriferous shrub, of which,however, there is no proof. (Reland, Palaetlina,p. 313.) [G.W.] LIBARNA (AfCapra), a city of Liguria, whichis mentioned by Pliny among the "nobilia oppitlu"that adorned the interior of that province, as welt asby Ptolemy and the Itineraries, in which its nameappears as " Libarnum " or " Libarium." (Plin. iii.5. a. 7; Ptol. iii. 1. § 45; Jt'm. Ant. p. 294; Tab.J'eul.) These place it on the road from Genua toDertoua, but the distances giveu are certainly cor­rupt, and therefore afford no clue to the position ofthe town. This has, however, been of late yearsestablished beyond doubt by the discovery of itsremains on the left bank of the Scricia, betweenA rtptata and Serraralle. The traces still visible ofits ancient theatre, forum, and aqueducts, confirmPliny's statement of its flourishing condition; whichis further attested by several inscriptions, from one ofwhich it would appear to have enjoyed colonial rank.(S. (juintino, Antica Coloniu di Libarna, in theMrm, del? AcctuUm. di Torino^ vol. xxix. p. 143;Al.lini, Isijwli Ticineti, pp. 120, 139.) [K. II. B.]LIBETHRA, LIBETHRUM (Ai«r)0oa: Elk.\i6r\Bpioi), a town of Macedonia in the neighbour­hood of Ilium. It is mentioned by Livy (xliv. 5),who, after describing the perilous march of theRoman army under Q. Marcius through a pass inthe chain of Olympus,—Cai.upeuce (the lowerpart of the ravine of Flatamma),—says, that afterfour days of extreme labour, they reached the plainbetween Libetbrum and Heracleia, Pausanias(ix. 30. § 9) reports a tradition that the town wasonce destroyed. "Libethra," he says, "was situatedon Mount Olympus, on the side of Macedonia. At nogreat distance from it stood the tomb of Orpheus,reelecting which an oracle had declared that whenthe sun beheld the bones of the poet the city shouldbe destroyed by a boar (Biro ovoi). The inhabitantsof Libethra ridiculed the thing as imjxiasiblc; butthe column of Orpheus's monument liaviug beenaccidentally broken, a gap was made by which lightbnike in upon the tomb, when the same night thetorrent named Si°h, being prodigiously swollen,rusheddown with violeiire from Mt. Olympus upon Li­bethra, overthrowing the walls and all the publicand private buildings, and destroying every livingcreature in its furious course. After this calamitythe remains of Orpheus were removed to L>ium,20 stadia distant from their city towards Olym­pus, where they erected a monument to him, con­sisting of an urn of stone upon a column." In thetime of Alexander the Great there was a statue ofOrpheus mad* of cypress, at Libethra. (Pint.Ala. 14.) The only two torrents which could have rnVcleisuch havoc as that described by Pausanias are tuerivers of riutamtma and LitoUioro. As the f«swrwas near Heracleia, it may be coucluded that tieSus, was the same river as the Enipeus, and thatLibethra was situated not far from its junction wi;hthe sea. as the upper parts of the slope umanlsLihiUiorv, are secured from the ravages of thetorrent by their elevation above its bank. It might be supposed, from the resemblance, thatthe modern Malathria [Dium] is a corruption ofthe ancient Libethra: the similarity is to be at­tributed, perhaps, to the two names having a couiumqorigin in some word of the ancient language ■{Macedonia. (Leake, Jfurliern G'recce, voL iii.pp. 413, 422.) Strabo (ix. p. 409, x. p. 471) alludes to thisplace when speaking of Helicon, and remarks thatseveral places around that mountain, attested tiieformer existence of the Pierian Thrarians in theBoeotian districts. Along with the worship of theMuses the names of mountains, caves, and springs,were transferred from ML Olympus to Helicon;hence they were surnamed Libethridcs as well asPierides (" Xympliae, Hosier amor, Libethrides,"Virg. £<Avii. 21). [E. B. J.] LIBE'TUKIAS, LIBETHRIUS. [Helrox.] Ll'BIA. [AllTRIGOXES.] LIItiCll or LIBIC1 (A*6V*ioi, Pol.; Aituul,Ptol.), a tribe of Cisalpine Gauls, who iiih:ibited litpart of Gallia Transpadana about the river Sesiaand the neighbourhood of Yervellae. They aiefirst mentioned by Polybius (ii. 17), who placesthem, together with the Laevi (Adoi), towards tixsources of the Padus, and W. of the Insubres. Tnsistatement is sufficiently vague: a more previse dueto their position is supplied by Pliny and Ptulemy,both of whom notice Vercellae as their chief city, towhich the latter adds Laumellum also. (Pun. iii.17. s. 21; Ptol. iii. 1. §36.) Pliny expressly leti.ns that they were descended from the Sallyea, a pr«^>of Ligurian race; whence it would appear probablethat the Libicii as well as the Laevi were Lurunan,and not Gaulish tribes [Laevi], though »* lieu >«the N. side of the Padus. Livy also speaks, but ina passage of which the reading is very um-ertaiu(v. 35), of the Salluvii (the same people with theSallyea) as crossing the Alps, and witling in Gaulnear the La. vi. [K. H. B.J LIBISO'SON'A (cognomine Foroaumutana, Pfiaviii. 3. s. 4; Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 260. no. 3; LiU-sona, Coins, up. Sestini, p. 168; Libisosia, Itim.Aid. p. 446; AisViKO., Ptol. ii. C. § 59; Lebi-nosa, (Jcog. Kav. iv. 44: Uz>iza), a city of tkoOretani, in Uispania Tarraconensis, 14 M. P. XL.of the sources of the Anas, on the hi^h-road fruuiLaiuinium to Cacsaraugusta. It was au importantplace of trade, and, under the Romans, a colony,belonging to the couventus of Cacsaraugusta (Pus.I c. i Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp. 411,412). [P. S.J L1BNATH (A««V<f, AosVrf), generally roenfionsviin connection with I,achisb, from which it could Docbe far distant [Lacuihii], (,/osA. x. 29—32; SA'injp.xix. 8.) It belonged to Judah (Ji*h. xv. 42), amiis recognised by Luscbius as a village iu the d*>-trict of Elcutheropolis. (Onuauuit. s. r. AoCaML)Dr. Robinson could not succeed in recovering anyirarcs of its name or site (bill. tin. tul ii. p.389). [0. »".] LI'BNIUS, a river in Ireland, mentioned by Ito-Lwny (ii. 2. jj 4) aa in the west coast, — Um hrsr