OCR Output PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 23* may be great and good subjects under such sovereigns as Domitian (A. 42)With the public history and the private life of the period of which he writes,he was of course well acquainted, for it was the period of his own active ex­ertions, and most of the events, which he records, either passed under his owneye at Rome, or were brought directly to his ears as they transpired in themore distant provinces. When with a mind so disciplined and so furnished aswe have thus faintly described—in the full maturity of his powers and withthe utmost richness of materials—he sat down to write the history of an em­pire which involved the history of the world—fit author on fit theme—he couldsay, as jEneas did in beginning the story of his country's fall and his ownwanderings: Quaeque ipse miserrima vidi,Et quorum magna pars mi. The parallel holds in more than one particular. The events of Tacitus' his­tory, like those of /Eneas' tale, are chiefly sad, disastrous to his country, dis­graceful to her rulers and of melancholy interest to himself; he had seen themwith his own eyes, mourned over them in his inmost heart,* suffered them inhis own person and in the person of his dearest friends; he had acted a some­what conspicuous part as a senator and an orator in those troublous times;partly by his own prudence, partly by some miracle, as it were, which wecannot understand^ he escaped unharmed and with unsullied reputation;and no sooner has he weathered the storm and found a safe and tranquil har­bor, than he gives to the world an able and faithful history of the scenesthrough which he and his country had passed. Well might the historianfelicitate himself on the propitious change in his fortunes and the happinessof that age, in which it was once more lawful for men to think what theypleased and to speak what they thought (His. 1,1)! Nor have his readersless reason for self-congratulation, that this happy age was preceded by eviltimes, when the historian experienced bitter trials and when the state passedfrom the extreme of bloody anarchy to the extreme of despotic cruelty; forto these experiences we are doubtless indebted for much of his wisdom andeloquence; and though other and inferior minds may have been crushed be­neath the oppressive sway of Domitian, and almost lost the power of memorytogether with the gift of speech (A. 2, 3), this long period of forced silenceonly condensed the swelling .thoughts of Tacitus, compressed his glowingemotions and added intensity to the burning words, in which he spoke, as soonas the pressure was removed.! Much has been written on the credibility of Tacitus, as a historian. Hisveracity has been impugned. Provoked by the severity with which he treatsthe Jews and the Christians, some of the early Fathers pronounce him themost eloquent of liars.§ He has been charged with exaggerating the virtuesand the victories of the Romans on the one hand, and on the other, their vices * "Witness the pathetic conclusion of the Biography of Agricola (A. 39-46). t Witness the absence of Tacitus for four years near the close of Dom,tian'sreign (A. 45) ? when his tyranny was at its height (A. 44). t Cf. Plin. Ep. 4, 20: Dolori sublimitatem et magnificentiam ingenium, ,ngeniorim et amaritudinem dolor addit. $ Cf. Tertullian. Apol. adv. gent. ch. 16: loquacissimutn mendacium.