OCR Output 176 LIBYA. LIBYA. habitants the general name of Aethiopes, tlie darkor black coloured men. Between u. o. 630—620.Battus of Thera, being commanded by the oracle t«ilead a colony into Libya, inquired anxiously " whereLibya was," although at that time the position ofAcgypt, and probably that of the Phoenician Car­thage also, was well known to tlie Greeks. Hencewe may conclude that, in (Ik; 7th century n. c. thename Libya, as the generic appellation of a continentwithin sight of Sicily, and within a few days' sailfrom Peloponnesus, was cither partially adopted by orwholly unknown to the Greeks. The Phoenicianswere among the first explorers, as they were amongtlie earliest colonisers of Libya ; but they concealedtheir knowledge of it with true commercial jealousy,and oven as late as the Cth century b.c. interdictedthe Uoman and Etruscan mariners from sailing be­yond the Fair Promontory. (Polyb. in. '22.) Aboutsixty years before the journey of Herodotus toAeirypt, i. e. it, c. 523, Cum by sea explored a portionof thewesterndesert that lies beyond Klephantine; buthis expedition was too brief and disastrous to affordany extension of geographical acquaintance with theinterior. Herodotus is the first traveller whose ac­counts of Libya are in any way diStinct or to berelied uj«»n ; and his information was probably de-rived, in great measure, from the caravan guideswith whom he conversed at Memphis or Xaucratis inthe Delta.* By the term Libya, Herodotus under­stood sometimes the whole of ancient Africa (iv. 42),sometimes Africa exclusive of Aegypt (ii. 17, 18,iv. 107). He defined its proper eastern boundary tobe the isthmus of Suez and the lied sea, in opposi­tion to those who placed it along the western bankof the Nile. In this opinion lie is supported byStrabo(i. pp. 86,174)and Ptolemy (ii. 1. § 6, iv. 5*.§ 47) ; and his description of the Groat Desert andother features of the interior prove that his narrativegenerally rests upon the evidence of travellers in thatregion. The next step in discovery was made by theMacedonian kings of Aegypt. They not only re­quited gold, precious stones, ivory, ami aroiuatics,for luxury and art, and elephants for their wars, butwere also actuated by a zeal for the promotion ofscience. Accordingly, Ptolemy Philadelphia (l)iod. i.37; Pliu. vi. 2lJ) and Ptolemy Euergetes (e. u. 283—222) sent forth expeditions to the coast andmouth id' the Red sea, and into the modern NubiaTheir investigations, however, tended more to ex­tending acquaintance with the country between thecataracts of the Nile and the straits of Hab-d-Mtmdeb than to the examination of Western Libya. About 200 years before our era, Kratosthcncsdescribed Libya, but rather as a mathematician than ageographer. He defines it to be an acute angledtriangle, of which the base was the Mediterranean,and the sides the Bed sea. on the east, and on thewest an imaginary line drawn from the Pillars ofHercules to the Sinus Adulitanus. The wars of Koine with < larthage, and the destruc­tion of that city in It c. 14<>, tended considerably topromote a clearer acquaintance with Libya Interior.Poly bias, commissioned by his friend and commander,Scipio Aemilianus, visited Aeirypt and many districtsof the northern coast of Africa, ami explored itswestern id tores also, as fur as the river Bumbotus,perhaps Cape Xon, lat. 28° where he found thecrocodile and hippojiotamus. Unfortunately, therecord of his journey has perished, although it wasextant in the 1st century A.D., and is cited byPliny (vi. 1) and Stephanos of Byzantium (s. iv Tttttu'i-. TaG.ictKa, XaAxe?a, B;''("aiTFs; comp. G<*s*-lin, Hecherches tur let Geographic <4ncictMe,tutn.iL pp. 1—30). The events of the Jugurthine War (a. c 111—106) led the Romans further into the interior.The historian Sallust, when praetor of Numidio,arduously collected information respecting tii* in­digenous races of Libya. He mentions the GaetuGas the rude Aborigines, who fed on the flesh of wildbeasts, and on the roots of the earth. They dweltnear the torrid zone ('* haud procul ab anioribiii"\and their huts (mapalia) resembled inverted bat*.In n. c. 24, Aelius Gall us conducted, by the eum-mand of Augustus, an expedition into Aethiopia andNubia, and extended the knowledge of the ea-trnidistricts. The difficulties of the road and the trea­chery of his guides, indeed, rendered his attemptunprosperous; but in the year following, PetrunioirepuUed an inroad of the Aethiopians, and establisheda line of military posts south of Klephantine (Miab.xvii. p. 615; Dion Cass. liv. 6). In b. c. 19,L. Cornelius Balbus attacked the Garamantes withsuccess, and ascertained the names at least ofmany of their towns. (Flor. iv, 12 ; Plin. t. 75.)The information then acquired was employed byStrabo in his account of Libya. Asrain, in Xer>sreign, an exploring party was desjeitched to litAbyssinian highlands, with a view of di>coTeriBj;the .sources of the Kile. (Plin. vi. 32; Senec SalQuaest. vi. 8.) But the Romans became acquainted with portionof the Libyan desert, less through regular attemptsto penetrate it on either side, than from their de-sreto procure wild beasts for the amphitheatre. Underthe emperors, especially, the passion fur exhibitingrare animals prevailed; nor have we reason to suspectthat these were found in the cultivated northernprovinces, whence they must have been diivm bythe colonial herdsmen and fanners, even while Cy-rene and Carthage were independent states. At tbisecular games exhibited by the emperor Phiiip theArabian (a. d. 248), an incredible number of Libyanwild beasts were slaughtered in the arena, and trieRoman hunters who collected them must liavt Tittlesthe Sahara at least, and the southern slope of Atlas:nor, since the hippopotamus and the alligator arementioned, is it improbable that they even reaebftithe banks of the Senegal. Of all the ancient geographers, however, ClaudiusPtolemy, who flourished in the second century A Widisplays the most accurate and various acquaintaonwith Libya Interior. Yet, with the works of oilpredecessors before him, the scientific labours of vwAlexandrians, and the Roman surveys, Ptolemy p*sessed a very inadequate knowledge of the form an.extent of this continent. His tables «fc<.w that Wwestern coast had been explored as far as 11'lat. N.; and he was aware of the approximate r»*ition of the Fortunate Islands (now the Canarie*)since from them, or some point in them, he Cainlutes all his eaMern distances or longitudes. Hwas also Utter acquainted than any of his precurscnwith the eastern coast, and with the tracts wtiKintervened between the left bank of the Nile *nthe Great Desert. He mentions an expedition cotducted by a Roman officer named Maternos, »hsetting forth from TrijxAi, advanced as far soutlward as the neighbourhood of the lake Tchad, anperhaps, even of Timbue too. He has also ci"with probable correctness, the position of a numbof places in the interior, along a river which he ca.