OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 16i In comparing the proportion of the victorious and the vanquished people, thechange of language, will afford the most probable inference. According to thisstandard it will appear, that the Lombards of Italy, and the Visigoths of Spain,were less numerous than the Franks or Burgundians; and the conquerors of Gaulmust yield, in their turn, to the multitude of Saxons, and Angles who almost era­dicated the idioms of Britain. The modem Italian has been insensibly formed bythe mixture of nations; the awkwardness of the barbarians in the nice manage­ment of declensions and conjugations, reduced them to the use of articles andauxiliary verbs; and many new ideas have been expressed by Teutonic appella­tions. Yet the principal stock of technical and familiar words is found to be ofLatin derivational) and if we were sufficiently conversant with the obsolete, therustic, and the municipal dialects of ancient Italy, we should trace the origin ofmany terms which might, perhaps, be rejected by the classic purity of Rome.A numerous army constitutes but a small nation, and the powers of the Lombardswere soon diminished by the retreat of twenty thousand Saxons, who scorned adependant situation, and returned, after many bold and perilous adventures, totheir native country.(2) The camp of Alboin was of formidable extent, but theextent of a camp would be easily circumscribed within the limits of a city; andits martial inhabitants must be thinly scattered over the face of a large country.When Alboin descended from the Alps, he invested his nephew, the first duke ofFriuli, with the command of the province and the people; but the prudent Gisulfwould have declined the dangerous office, unless he had been permitted to choose,among the nobles of the Lombards, a sufficient number of families(3) to form aperpetual colony of soldiers and subjects. In the progress of conquest, the sameoption could not be granted to the dukes of Brescia and Bergamo, of Pavia or Tu­rin, of Spoleto or Beneventum; but each of these, and each of their colleagues,settled in his appointed district with a band of followers, who resorted to hisstandard in war, and his tribunal in peace. Their attachment was free and ho­nourable: resigning the gifts and benefits which they had accepted, they mightemigrate with their families in the jurisdiction of another duke; but their absencefrom the kingdom was punished with death, as a crime of military desertion. (4)The posterity of the first conquerors struck a deeper root in the soil, which, byevery motive of interest and honour, they were bound to defend. A Lombardwas born the soldier of his king and his duke; and the civil assemblies of the na­tion displayed the banners, and assumed the appellation, of a regular army. Ofthis army, the pay and the rewards were drawn from the conquered provinces;and the distribution, which was not effected till after the death of Alboin, is dis­graced by the foul marks of injustice and rapine. Many of the most wealthyItalians were slain or banished; the remainder were divided among the strangers,and a tributary obligation was imposed (under the name of hospitality,) of payingto the Lombards a third part of the fruits of the earth. Within less than seventyvears, this artificial system was abolished by a more simple and solid tenure. (5)Either the Roman landlord was expelled by his strong and insolent guest; or theannual payment, a third of the produce, was exchanged by a more equitabletransaction for an adequate proportion of landed property. Under these foreignmasters, the business of agriculture, in the cultivation of corn, vines, and olives,was exercised with degenerate skill and industry, by the labour of the slaves andnatives. But the occupations of a pastoral life were more pleasing to the idlenessof the barbarians. In the rich meadows of Venetia, they restored and improvedthe breed of horses for which that province had once been illustrious;(6) and the Title, torn. i. p. 374—387.) has followed the Warned Camillo Pelegrini in the geography or the kingdom ofNaples. After the loss of the tmc Calabria, the rarity of the Greeks substituted that name instend of themore ignoble appellation of Bruttium; and the change appears to have take place before the time of Charle­magne, (Eginard, p. 75.) (1) Maffli (Verona Illustrate, part i. p. 310—321.,) and Mtiratori, (Antiehita Italiane, torn. ii. Dissertazione,32,33. p. 71—365.) have asserted the native claims of the Italian idiom: the former with enthusiasm, the lattetwith discretion: both with learning, ingenuity, and truth. (2) Paul.de Gest. Langobard, lib. iii. c. 5—7. (3) Paul, lib. ii. c. 9. He calls these families or generations by the Teutonic name of Faras, which is like­wise used in the Lombard laws. The humble deacon was not insensible of the nobility of hit own race. Seelib. iv. c. 39. (4) Compare No. 3 and 177 of the laws of Rotharis. (5) Paul, lib. ii. c. 31,32. lib. iii. c. 16. The laws of Rotharis, promulgated A. D. 643. do not contain thesmallest vestige of this payment of thirds; but they preserve many curious circumstances of the state of Italyand the manners of the Lombards. (6) The studs of Dionysius of Syracuse, and his frequent victories in the Olympic games, had diffusedamong the Greets the fame of the Venetian horses; but the breed was extinct in the time of Strabo flib. r. p­