OCR Output CHAP. XLIV,] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 36Q petuate in each family a just and virtuous mediocrity;till female blandishments insensibly triumphed; andevery salutary restraint was lost in the dissolute great­ness of the republic. The rigour of the decemvirs wastempered by the equity of the praetors. Their edictsrestored emancipated and posthumous children to therights of nature: and upon the failure of the agnats,they preferred the blood of the cognats to the name ofthe Gentiles, whose title and character were insensiblycovered with oblivion. The reciprocal inheritance ofmothers and sons was established in the Tertullian andOrphitian decrees by the humanity of the senate. Anew and more impartial order was introduced by thenovels of Justinian, who affected to revive the jurispru­dence of the twelve tables. The lines of masculine andfemale kindred were confounded: the descending, as­cending, and collateral series, was accurately defined;and each degree, according to the proximity of bloodand affection, succeeded to the vacant possessions of aRoman citizen.1 The order of succession is regulated by nature, or at tntrodoo-least by the general and permanent reason of the law- ln.erty <>rgiver; but this order is frequently violated by the arbi-trary and partial wills which prolong the dominion of thetestator beyond the grave.™ In the simple state of so­ciety, this last use or abuse of the right of property isseldom indulged: it was introduced at Athens by the lawsof Solon; and the private testaments of the father of afamily are authorized by the twelve tables. Before thetime of the decemvirs," a Roman citizen exposed his sixty-five years of age) suassisscm, says old Cato. (de Senectute, c. 5.) Aulas Gel-Gas (7. 13/17. 6.) has saved some passages. 1 See the law of succession in the Institutes of Caius, (lib. 2. tit. 8. p. 130—144.)and Justinian, (lib. 3. tit. 1—6. with the Greek version of Theophilus, p. 515—575.588-r600.) the Pandects, (lib. 38. tit. 6—17.) the Code, (lib. 6. tit. 55—60.) andthe Novels..(118.) ■ That succession was the rule, testament the exception, is proved by Taylor,(Elements of Civil Law, p. 519—527.) a learned, rambling, spirited writer. In thesecond and third books the method of the Institutes is doubtless preposterous; andthe chancellor Duquesseau (CEuvres, tom. 1. p. 275.) wishes his countrymen Domatin the place of Ti-ibooian. Yet covenants before successions is not surely the naturalorder of the oivil laws. ...' « Prior examples of testaments are peihaps fabulous. At Athens a childless fa-