OCR Output 130 LIVY. preme authority and command on the Umbrian Atrins,and the Calenian Albius. Soldiers, deny that it wasthe act of you all, or that you all approved of it:assert that it was the madness and folly of a few. Ishall willingly give credit to your disavowal; for thecrimes committed are of such a nature, that did theguilt of them extend to the whole army, it could notbe expiated without very extraordinary atonements.I unwillingly touch those matters, as I should wounds;but unless such are touched and handled, they cannotbe cured. After the Carthaginians were expelled fromSpain, I really believed that there was not, in the wholeprovince, any one place, or any description of men, towhom my life was not a matter of concern : such hadbeen my conduct, not only towards the allies, buteven towards the enemy. And yet even in my owncamp, so much was I deceived in my opinion, the re足port of my death was not only readily believed, butlonged for. Not that I wish this behavior should beimputed to you all: I assure you, if I could believethat my whole army wished my death, I would here,this instant, die before your eyes; nor could life affordme any pleasure if it were displeasing to my country足men and soldiers. But every multitude, like the sea,is incapable of moving itself; the winds and gales putit in motion: thus, when either calms or storms appearin you, all the madness lies in the first advisers. Thisyou have caught by infection: and even this day, youdo not seem to me to be sensible to what a pitch offolly you have proceeded, or how heinous your at足tempts have been with respect to me, how heinouswith respect to your country, your parents, and yourchildren; how heinous with respect to the gods, whowere witnesses of your oath; how heinous against thepractice of the service, the discipline of your an足cestors, and the majesty of the supreme authority andrule! With regard to myself, I say nothing. Be it,that you believed the report rather through want ofthought, than through a wish that it should be true;and let me even be supposed such a person, that it