OCR Output LIGURIA.is: LIGURIA. them with the Romans, that these leagues were ex­tremely variable and partial. The names of manyi>f the different tribes have been transmitted to us;bat it is often difficult, or impossible, to determinewith any decree of certainty the situation or limitsof their respective territories. It is probable, aspointed out by Pliny, that these limits themselvesvaried much at different times (Plin. iii. 5. s. 6),and many of the minor tribes, whose names arementioned by Livy in the history of the Romancomment of Liguria, seem to have at a later perioddisappeared altogether.* The only tribes concerningwhom we have any tolerably definite information are:— 1. the Afuani, in the valley of the Macra, andabout the Portus Lunae ; but the greater part uf theterritory which had once belonged to this powerfultribe was not included in Roman Liguria, 2. TheFkimatks, who may be placed with much probabi­lity in the upper valley of the Scultenna, or Panaro,i>n the N. slope of the Apennines towards Mutina(% district .still called Frtgnano); so that they alsowere excluded from Liguria in the later sense of theterm. 3. The literalatks may perhaps be placedin the vailey of the Vara, the most considerableronflnent of the Magra, called by Ptolemy theIifictes. 4. The Gkkuateh, known to us onlyfn-tti an inscrip'ion [Genua], were obviously theinhabitants of Genua and its immediate neighbour­hood. 5. The Vktlrit, mentioned in the same in-firriplion, adjoined the Oenuates on the W.. and wereapparently separated from them by the river Porci-ftra. or Polcevf-ra 6. The more powerful and cele-braied tribe *•{ the lxoAUNI may be placed Withcertainty on the coast near Albenga (Albium In-^amiom), though we cannot fix their limits with anyprecision. 7. Tlie Intkmeui occupied the coastW. of the Ing.iuni: their chief town was Albiumhitemelium, now Vintimiglia. 8. The Vkdiakthinhabited the country on both sides of the Varus, astheir name is evidently retained by the town ofPeace, some miles W. of that river ; while Cemene-Fram, about A miles to the E. of it, also belonged tothem. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7.) r*f the tribes N. of the Apennines, or inhabitingthe talieys of that range which slope towards theParitw, the most conspicuous were ;—1. The Vagi-Dnn, whose capital was Augusta Vagiennorum,now Bene, between the Stura and the Tanaro,*\i\\* their confines appear to have extended as farxt the Monte \"i*o and the sources of the Po.2. The Statikmj, whose pmition is marked bythe celebrated watering-place of Aquae Staticllae,*.«■ Acqui. 3. The Taurini, whose capital wasAti^osta Taurinoruin, now Turin, and who appear13 have occupied the whole country on both sides oftbe Padua, from the foot of the Cottian Alps to thebi&lLs of the Tartarus. 4. The Euburiates (Flor.u. 3; Plin. iii. 5. s. 7) may be placed, according to* l"al antiquary, in the hills of the Astiyiana.(liurandi, Pitmonte Cutpadano, cited by Walckenacr,CVopr. nes Gaulet, vol. i. p. 161.) 5. E. of thesewast be placed several smaller tribes mentioned byIjvy in the history of the Roman wars with Liguria,aadbf which we know only that they were situated • The same thing is the case with the names ofthrw Lipurian tribes, cited by Stephanas of Byxan-ti*m («. r.) from Theophrastus,—the Arbaxani,Kat4L, and Ipsicuri. Of these we do not know evenvtuther they dwelt in Italy or ou the southern coasttfGnL on the N. side of the Apennines. These are theCelelates, Cerdiciates, and apparently tlic Ilvatcsalso. (Liv. xxxii. 29, 31.) 6. The Efanteriiare mentioned also by Livy (xxviii. 46) as a tribewho occupied the mountains above the Ingauni; butno subsequent mention of them occurs. In addition to these, Livy notices the Garuli,Hercates, and Lapicini, as situated on the S. side ofthe Apennines (xli. 19). but we have no furtherclue to their position. Pliny also enumerates (iii. 5.s. 7) among the Ligurian tribes on the Italian sideof the Alps, the Veneni, Bim belli, Magelli, Cas-monates, and Veleiates, of which the last doubtlessoccupied the country around Veleia, the ruins ofwhich still remain about eighteen miles S. ofPlacentia. The others are wholly unknown, andthe names themselves vary so much in the Mfc>S. asto be of very doubtful authority. The coast of Liguria, as already described, isbordered closely throughout its whole extent by theranges of the Maritime Alps and Apennines, whichfor the most part rise very abruptly from the sea­shore, in other places leave a narrow strip of fertileterritory between their foot and the sea, but nowhereis there anything like a plain. This steep coastalso affords very few natural ports, with the ex­ception of the magnificent bay called the PortusLunae (now the Gulf of Spezia) near its easternextremity, which is one of the most spacious andsecure harbours in the Mediterranean. The port ofGenua also caused it to be frequented from theearliest times as a place of trade (Strab. iv. p. 202),while the Portus Herculis Monoeci (J/onaco), thoughsmall, was considered secure. It is singular thatthe much more spacious and secure harbour ofViUafrtmca, in the same neighbourhood, is notmentioned by any ancient writer, though noticed inthe Maritime Itinerary under the name of PortusOlivulae. The same Itinerary (pp. 503, 504) noticestwo small ports, which it places between this lastand that of Monaco, under the names of Auao andAvisio, which may probably be placed respectively atS. Ospizio and Eza. [Nicaea.] The PortusMaukici of the same Itinerary is still called PortoMaurizio, a small town about two miles W. ofOneglia. The rivers of Liguria are not of much importance.From the proximity of the mountains to the S. coast,the streams which descend from them to the sea arefor the most part mere mountain torrents, altogetherdry in summer, though violent and destructive inwinter and after heavy rains. Almost the only ex­ceptions are the two rivers which formed the extremelimits of Liguria on the E. and \V,, the Macra andthe Vaucs, both of which are large and perennialstreams. Next in importance to these is the Rutubaor lioja, which flowed through the country of theIntcmvlii. It rises at the foot of the Col di Tenda,in the Maritime Alps, and has a couise of above 36miles from thence to the sea at Vintimiglia. Thesmaller streams on the S. coant were:—the Paulo(Paglione), which flowed by the walls of Nicaea(Plin. iii. 5. a. 7 ; Mel. ii. 4. § 9): the Tavia {Itin.Marit. p. 503) still called the Taggia, between S.Remo and Porto Maurizio; the Mkjui.a (Plin./. c), which still retains its name, and fulls into thesea between Onefflia and Albenga; the PoRClFEltAof Pliny {I. c), now called the Polctvera, whichflows a few miles to the W. of Genoa ; iIicFeritor(/A.), on the E. of the same city, now the Bisagno;the Enti.l.i-a (PtoL iii. I. § 3), which is probably