OCR Output -" CHAP. L. .139 venting their common enemies, and wisely rejected hiscourteous offer df abdicating the government of the Ara­bians. After a reign of two years, the aged caliph wassummoned by the angel of death. In his testament, withthe tacit approbation of the companions, he bequeathedthe sceptre to the firm and intrepid virtue of Omar. /have no occasion (said the modest candidate) for theplace.—But the place has occasion for you, replied Abu-beker; who expired with a fervent prayer thatA. D. 634, the god of Mahomet would ratify his choice, andy ' direct the Mussulmans in the way of concord andobedience. The prayer was not ineffectual, since Alihimself, in a life of privacy and prayer, professed to re­vere the superior worth and dignity of his rival; whocomforted him for the loss of empire, by the most flat­tering marks of confidence and esteem. In the twelfthyear of his reign, Omar received a mortal wound fromthe hand of an assassin; he rejected with equal impar­tiality the names of his son and of Ali, refused to loadhis conscience with the sins of his successor, and devolvedon six of the most respectable companions, the arduoustask of electing a commander of the faithful. On thisoccasion, Ali was again blamed by his friends11 for sub­mitting his right to the judgment of men, for recognizingtheir jurisdiction by accepting a place among the sixelectors. He might have obtained their suffrage, had hedeigned to promise a strict and servile conformity, notonly to the Koran and tradition, but likewise to the de-...., terminations of two seniors.' With these li- ofOthman, A. D. 644, nutations, Othman, the secretary of Mahomet,accepted the government; nor was it till after "Particularly by bis friend and cousin Abdallah, tbe son of Abbas, who diedA. D. 687, with the title of grand doctor of the Moslems. In Abulfeda be recapi­tulated tbe important occasions in which Ali had neglected bin salutary advice;(p. 76. vers. Reiske) and concludes, (p. 85.) 0 princeps fidelium, absque contro-versia tu quidem vere fortis es, at inops boni consilii, et rerun gerendarum paruntcallens. 11 suspect that the two seniors (Abulpharagius, p. 115. Ockley, torn. 1. p. 371.)may signify not two actual counsellors, but hit two predecessors, Abubeker andOmar. z2