OCR Output 428 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [b. n. However, Apion is ignorant of what every body knows, thatthe Egyptians were servants to the Persians, and afterwardto the Macedonians, when they were lords of Asia, and wereno better than slaves, while we have enjoyed liberty formerly;nay, more than that, have had the dominion of the cities thatlie round about us, and this nearly for a hundred and twentyyears together, until Pompeius Magnus. And when all thekings every where were conquered by the Romans, ourancestors were the only people who continued to be esteemedtheir confederates and friends, on account of their fidelityto them. 13. But, says Apion, "we Jews have not had any wonder­ful men amongst us, nor any inventors of arts, nor any emi­nent for wisdom." He then enumerates Socrates, and Zeno,and Cleanthes, and some others of the same sort; and afterall, he adds himself to them, which is the most wonderfulthing of all that he says, and pronounces Alexandria to behappy, because it hath such a citizen as he is in it; for hewas the fittest man to be a witness to his own deserts, althoughhe hath appeared to all others no better than a wicked mounte­bank, of a corrupt life and ill discourses; on which accountone may justly pity Alexandria, if it should value itself uponsuch a citizen as he is. But as to our own men, we have hadthose who have been as deserving of commendation as anywhosoever; and such as have perused our Antiquities cannotbe ignorant of them. 14. As to the other things which he sets down as blame­worthy, it may, perhaps, be the best way to let them passwithout apology, that he may be allowed to be his own accuser,and the accuser of the rest of the Egyptians. However, heaccuses us for sacrificing animals, and for abstaining fromswine's flesh, and laughs at us for the circumeision of ourprivy members. Now, as for our slaughter of tame animalsfor sacrifices, it is common to us and to all other men; butthis Apion, by making it a crime to sacrifice them, demon­strates himself to be an Egyptian ; for had he been either aGrecian or a Macedonian [as he pretends to be] he had notshowed any uneasiness at it; for those people glory in sacri­