OCR Output 978 SICILIA. SK and prosperity far surpassing that of either of itsmother cities. Sefinus was the most westerly of theGreek colonies, and immediately bordered on the ter­ritory of the Klyrni and the Phoenician or Carthagi­nian settlements. On the N. coast of the island,the only independent Greek colony was Himkka,founded about u. c. 648 by the Zanelaeans; Mvlae,another colony of the same people, having apparentlycontinued, from its proximity, to be a mere depen­dency of Zancle. To the above list of Greek colo­nies must be added CA LUPOUS and Euboea, bothof them colonies of Naxos, but which never seem tohave attained to consideration, and disappear fromhistory at an early period.* Our accounts of the early history of these nu­merous Greek colonies in Sicily are unfortunatelyvery scanty and fragmentary. We learn indeed ingeneral terms that they rose to considerable powerand importance, and enjoyed a high degree of wealthatid prosperity, owing as well to the fertility andnatural advantages of the island, as to their foreigncommerce. It is evident also that at an early periodthey extended their dominion over a considerablepart of the adjoining country, so that each city hadits district or territory, often of considerable extent,and comprising a subject population of native origin.At the same time the Sicels of the interior, in thecentral and northern parts of the island, and theSicaiiians and Ely mi in the W., maintained theirindependence, though they seem to have given butlittle trouble to their Greek neighbours. Duringthe sixth century B.C. the two most powerful citiesin the island appear to have been Agrigentum andGela, Syracuse not having yet attained to that pre­dominance which it subsequently enjoyed. Agri­gentum, though one of the latest of the Greek colo­nies in Sicily, seems to have risen rapidly to pros­perity, and under the able, though tyrannicalgovernment of the despot Pbalaris (u. c. 570—554)became apparently for a time the most powerfulcity in the island. But we know very little abouthis real history, and with the exception of a fewscattered and isolated notices we have hardly anyaccount of tLe affairs of the Greek cities before B. O.500. At or before that period we find that a poli­tical change had taken place in most of these com­munities, and that their governments, which hadoriginally been oligarchical, had passed into thehands of despots or tyrants, who ruled with uncon­trolled power. Such were Panaetius at Leontiui,Oleander at (tela, TeriUus at Himera, and Scythes atZancle (Arist. Pol. v. 12; Herod, vi. 23, vii.154). Of these Cleander seems to have been themost able, and laid the foundation of a ]>ower whichenabled his brother and successor Hippocrates toextend his dominion over a great part of the island.Callipolis, Leontini, Naxos, Zancle, and Camarinasuccessively fell under the arms of Hippocrates, andSyracuse itself only escaped subjection by the inter­vention of the Corinthians (Herod, vii. 154). Butwhat Hippocrates had failed to effect was accomp­lished by Gelon, who succeeded him as despot ofGela, and by interposing in the civil dissensions ofthe Syracusaus ultimately succeeded in making * The above summary of the progress of Greekcolonisation in Sicily is taken almost wholly fromThucydides (vi. 3—5). See, however, ScvmnusChius (270—299) and Slrabo (vi. pp. 267—272).The dates are fully discussed by Clinton (Fasti Hel-lenki, vol. i.) himself master of thatthis time Gelon neglecteiGela, and directed all hment of his new acouimarina, and removed alltogether with a large parall the principal citizerEuboea (Herod, vii. 156 Syracuse was thus raicity in Sicily, which it iafterwards. A few yearbad established hansel!sovereign power at Agrextended his dominion OShe expelled Terillus, b.time also Anaxilaus, d<other side of the straits,Sicily, where he becaniehe gave the name of M<afterwards known [M*appear to have been merand liberal views, and ttdiate government appar«power and prosperity. <possessed at this period |no other Greek state ssjshown by the embassy sAthens to invoke his as>iinvasion of Xerxes (IIhis attention was calleddiately at hand. TerillHimera, had called in tlginians, and that peopleunder a general namedHimera, b. c. 480. Tlmaintain possession of IGelon with an army ofto his relief, with whiclthe Carthagiulan forces,feated the army of Hawhich was contemporaSalamis, raised Gelon totion, and became not le&lian Greeks than those oftheir continental bretlnprisoners taken at Hiineamong the cities of Siwealth and resources, arby many of them to ere<continued to adorn th(Diod. xi. 25). Gelon did not long |Himera: but he tranamto his brother Hieron.greatly inferior to Gelonrespects even superiorgreat naval victory bymaeans in Italy from tnians and Tyrrhenians (merited reputation thnAt the same time the noppressive to the Chaletof which he broke byNaxos and Catana, winto Leontini, while he rebody of new inhabitant!changed its name to Aeto reign at Agrigentumbut his son Thrasydaeusincurred the enmity ienabled by the asaiaUn