OCR Output Chap. X. 43 ANTIQU-iTIES OF THE JEWS. do more then ordinary injuries to others, that although he shouldbe killed, he did not much care if he lost his life in so great a de­sign. He had also four brethren, who were tall men themselves,'and were believed to be superior toothers in the strength of theirhands, and thereby were encouraged to aim at great things, andthought that strength of theirs would support them in retainingthe kingdom. Each of these ruled over a band of men of their-own; for those that got together to them were very numerous.They were every one of them also commanders.; but, when theycame to fight, they were subordinate to him, and fought for him,while he put a diadem about his head, and assembled a council.to debate about what things should be done, and all things weredone according to his pleasure. And this man retained hispower a great while ; he was also called king, and had nothingto hinder him from doing what he pleased. He also, as well ashis brethren, slew a great many both of the Romans, and of theking's forces, and managed matters with the like hatred to eachof them. The king's forces they fell upon, because of the li­centious-conduct they had been allowed under Herod's govern­ment.; and they fell upon the Romans, because of the injuriesthey had so lately received from them. But in process of time,they grew more cruel to all sorts of men ; nor could any one'escape from one or other of these seditions, since they slew someout of the hopes of gain, and others from a mere custom of slay­ing men. They once attacked a company of Romans at Emmaus,who were bringing corn and weapons to the army, and fell up­on Arius, the centurion, who commanded the company, and shotforty of the best of his foot-soldiers ; but the rest of them wereaffrighted at their slaughter, and left their dead behind them,but saved themselves by the means of Gratus, who came withthe king's troops that were about him to their assistance. Now,these four brethren continued the war a long while by such sortof expeditions, and much grieved the Romans ; but did theirown nation also a great deal of mischief. Yet were they after­ward subdued; one of them in a fight with Gratus, anotherwith Ptolemy ; Archelaus also took the eldest of them prisoner ;while the last of them was so dejected at the other's misfortune,and saw so plainly that he had no way now left to save himself,his army being worn away with sickness and continual labours,that he also delivered himself up to Archelaus, upon his promiseand oath to God [to preserve his life]. But these things cameto pass a good while afterward. 8. And now Judea was full of robberies; and, as the several-companies of the seditious light upon any one to head them, bewas created a king immediately, in order to do mischief to the F 2 public.