OCR Output STYLE OF TACITUS. 23 comparison with other writers, to whom our author intended to beunlike. Tacitus indulges in Greek constructions, such as are used only bya few, or by himself alone. For ancient writers, from the com­mencement of the Grace-Latin literature, had introduced manyGracisms into the Latin language, most of which the following agedropped in order to introduce others in their stead. See Agr. 34,Ceterorum Britannorum fugacissimi, an expression which the elderPliny had used before. Also Hisj;. IV., 28, Id nomen appellantur;and Dial. 18, the words, pro Catone magis, resemble the Greek. 19. Tacitus exerted himself particularly to secure concinnky, somuch so that he rarely neglected it, and some portions he adornedwith exquisite art by the use of this rhetorical beauty. He evenadded superfluous words, provided they would contribute to concin-nity; as Hist. II., 72, Quidam miliium errore vEEi seu turbarumstudio certatim aggregabantur. He even disregarded the rules ofgrammar in his fondness for this ornament: e. g., Ann. IV., 3, Adconjugii spent, consortium regni et necem mariti impulit, where theidea of consortium ought to depend upon spem, and therefore wouldregularly be in the genitive. He was careful to close his periods with well-chosen clausules,whence that disagreement with grammatical rules in Ann. XTV, 16,Species carminum . . . non uno fluens; and Germ. 5, Pecorum fe-cunda sed plerumque improcera. Furthermore he observed the lawof variety with solicitous care, sometimes for the sake of euphony,as Ann. II., 20, quibus—quis; sometimes to avoid the appearance ofpoverty in forms of expression. In this way he has sometimestroubled the reader, Ann. XV., 71, Verginium Rufum claritudonominis expulit; nam Verginius studiajuvenum eloquently, Musoniuspraeceptis sapientiae fovebat. In Hist. LL, 87, he employs the sameartifice, Calonum numerus amplior, procacissimis etiam inter servoslixarum ingeniis; where he puts lixae instead of calones, in the lastclause, for variety, both classes (cooks and campboys) being em­braced under each name. But he is particularly fond of varying theconstruction by enallage; e. g., Hist. II., 79, Illa Syriae, hoc Ju-daeae caput est; Agr. 33, ut.. decorum infrontem, itafugientibuspericulosissima. Very often he shows his love of variety in passing from the activeto the passive, and vice versa; Hist. IV., 77; Germ. 29, Nam nectributis contemnuntur, nec publicanus adterit; and Hist. HI., 56,Igndrus miliiiae, improvidus consiliis, where editions have consilii. Frequently he varies the form of construction, as if for no otherpurpose than to exhibit the richness of his mother tongue, and to