OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL long before the age prescribed by the military regulations. Thetribune soon justified his choice, by a victory over a great body ofSarmatians, in which he saved the life of a near relation of Vale­rian; and deserved to receive from the emperor's hand the collars,bracelets, spears, and banners, the mural and the civic crown, andall the honourable rewards reserved by ancient Rome for successfulvalour. The third, and afterwards the tenth, legion were entrusted tothe command of Probus, who, in every step of his promotion, shewedhimself superior to the station which he filled. Africa- and Pontus,the Rhine, the Danube, the Euphrates, and the Nile, by turns affordedhim the most splendid occasions of displaying his personal prowess andmilitary knowledge. Aurelian was indebted to him for the conquestof Egypt, and still more indebted for the honest courage with which heoften checked the cruelty of his master. Tacitus, who desired by theabilities of his generals to supply his own deficiency of military ta­lents, named him commander in chief of all the eastern provinces,with five times the usual salary, the promise of the consulsliip, and thehope of a triumph. When Probus ascended the imperial throne, hewas about forty-four years of age 1+; in the full possession of his fame,of the love of the army, and of a mature vigour of mind and body. His acknowledged merit, and the success of his arms againstFlorianus, left him without an enemy or a competitor. Yet if wemay credit his own professions, very far from being desirous of theempire, he had accepted it with the most sincere reluctance. "But*' it is no longer in my power," fays Probus, in a private letter,"to lay down a title so full of envy and of danger. I must con-"tinue to personate the character which the soldiers have imposed14 upon me *V His dutiful address to the senate displayed thesentiments, or at least the language, of a Roman patriot: "When*« you elected one of your order, conscript fathers! to succeed the-*• emperor Aurelian, you acted in a manner suitable to your justice." and wisdom. For you are the legal sovereigns of the world, M and 8