OCR Output 292 [BOOK Till ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. she was in: but openly confessed how wonder­fully she was affected. For she proceeded todiscourse with the king, and thereby ownedthat she was overcome with admiration at thethings before related; and said, "All thingsindeed, O king, that come to our knowledgeby report, come with uncertainty as to ourbelief of them; but as to those good thingsthat to thee appertain, both such as thoupossessest, 1 mean wisdom and prudence, andthe happiness thou hast from thy kingdom,certainly the fame which came to us was nofalsity; it was not only a true report, but itrelated thy happiness after a much lowermanner than I now see it to be before myeyes. For as for the report, it only attemptedto persuade our hearing; but did not so makeknown the dignity of the things themselvesas does the sight of them, and being presentamong them. I indeed, who did not believewhat was reported, by reason of the multi­tude and grandeur of the things I inquiredabout, do see them to be much more nu­merous than they were reported to be. Ac­cordingly I esteem the Hebrew people, aswell as thy servants and friends, to be happy,who enjoy thy presence, and hear thy wisdomevery day continually. One would thereforebless God who hath so loved this country,and those that inhabit therein, as to makethee king over them." Now when the queen had thus demon­strated how deeply the king had affectedher, she made that disposition known bycertain presents. For she gave him *twentytalents of gold, and an immense quantity ofspices and precious stones. They say alsothat we possess the froot of that balsam•which our country still bears by this wo­man's gift. Solomon also repaid her with many good things, and principally by be­stowing upon her what she chose of herown inclination; for there was nothing thatshe desired which he denied her. And ashe was very generous and liberal in his owntemper, so did he shew the greatness of hissoul in bestowing upon her what she her­self desired of him. So when this queen ofEgypt and Ethiopia had obtained what wehave already given an account of, and hadagain communicated to the king what shebrought with her, she returned to her ownkingdom.J CHAP. VII. of Solomon's immense riches, his love of strangewomen, the subsequent rebellion of ader and je­roboam, and the death of solomon. ABOUT the same time|| there werebrought to the king from the AureaChersonesus, (a. country so called,) preciousstones and pine-trees: and these trees hemade use of for supporting the temple, andthe palace; as also for the materials of musi­cal instruments, the harps and the psalteries;that the Levites might make use of them intheir hymns to God. The wood which wasbrought to him at the time, was larger andliner than any that had ever been broughtbefore. But let no one imagine that thesepine-trees were like those which are now sonamed, and which take their denominationfrom the merchants, who so call them thatthey may procure them to be admired bythose that purchase them. For those wespeak of were to the sight like the woodof the fig-tree; but were whiter and moreshining.§ Now we have said thus much, thatnobody may be ignorant of the difference be­ * A hundred and twenty, Hebrew and Septuagint,which I suppose to be the true number. t Some blame Josephus for supposing, that the balsamtree might be first brought out of Arabia, or Egypt, orEthiopia, into Judea, by this queen of Sheba; since seve­ral have said, that of old no country bore this preciousbalsam but Judea. Yet, as my learned friend Mr. Barkersuggested to me from Bochart's Phaleg. II. 26, it is notonly false that this balsam was peculiar to Judea; butboth Egypt and Arabia, and particularly Sabxa had it:which last was that very country whence Josephus, ifunderstood not of Ethiopia, but of Arabia, intimates thisqueen might bring it first into Judea. This Bochartproves from Agatharchides, Diodorus Siculus, and Arte-midorus, in Strabo. Nor are we to suppose, that the queen of Sabaea could well omit such a present as thisbalsam tree would be esteemed by Solomon, in case itwere then almost peculiar to her own country. Nor isthe mention of balsam, as carried by merchants, and sentas a present to Judea by Jacob, to the governor of Egypt,Gen. xxxvii. 15. and xliii. 11. to be alleged to the con­trary: since what we there render balm, or balsam, de­notes rather that turpentine, which we now cull turpentineof Chio or Cyprus, the juice of the turpentine-tree, thanthis precious balsam. This last is also the same word thatwe elsewhere render, by the like mistake, balm of Gilead.It should be rendered the turpentine of Gilead, Jer. viii. 22. J 1 Kings x. 13. II About an. 1020. § We never read of ivory till about Solomon's dayB,