OCR Output 268 THE PELOPO1TNESIAN WAR. take up the persons in the island, or by some other methodattempt to distress them. For this reason, they removed theprisoners again from the island into the temple of Juno, andapplied themselves to guard the city. But the enemy,though victorious at sea, durst not think of proceeding toattack the city; but satisfied with taking thirteen ships be­longing to the Corcyreans, they returned to the main, fromwhence they had sallied to the engagement. The next dayalso, they refrained from making any attempt upon the city,where the disorder and consternation were as great as ever.Brasidas is reported urgently to have pressed it upon Alci-das, but in the council of war was quite over-ruled. Theylanded, however, at cape Leucymne, and plundered thecountry. The Corcyrean people, whose fears were still suggestingthat they should be attacked by the enemy's fleet, had con­ferred with the suppliants and others about the only meansto preserve the city. And some of them they persuaded tojoin in navigating their ships ; for by some means or otherthey had again manned thirty, expecting every moment theenemy's approach. But the Peloponncsians continued theravage of their fields only till noon, and then repassed totheir former stations. Yet before the dawn of the succeed­ing day, they saw sixty lights held up, to denote an equalnumber of Athenian ships advancing from Leucas. TheAthenians, advertised of the sedition and the course of thefleet under Alcydas against Corcyra, had sent away this re­inforcement under the command of Eurymedon the son ofThucles. Upon this, the Peloponncsians, whilst yet it wasnight, crept homewards along the shore, and carrying theirvessels over the isthmus of Leucas, lest they should be dis­covered in going round it, are safely retreated within theirown confines. When the Corcyreans had discovered the approach ofthe Athenian reinforcement, and the departure of the enemy,they received the Messenians within their walls who till now