OCR Output 356 LIVY. fore retired from thence, and led back his troops intowinter quarters in Macedonia. 5. There, whilst others, glad of any interval of rest,consigned both body and mind to repose, Philip, inproportion as the season of the year had relieved himfrom the incessant fatigues of marching and fighting,found his care and anxiety increase the more, when heturned his thoughts towards the general issue of thewar. He dreaded, not only his enemies, who pressedhim hard by land and sea, but also the dispositions,sometimes of his allies, at others of his own subjects.The former, he thought, might be induced, by hopesof friendship with the Romans, to change sides, andthe Macedonians themselves be seized with a desire ofinnovation. Wherefore, he despatched ambassadorsto the Achasans, both to require their oath, (for it hadbeen made an article of their agreement that theyshould take an oath of fidelity to Philip every year,)and at the same time to restore to them Orchomenes,Heraa, and Triphylia. To the Megalopolitans he de­livered up Aliphera; which city, they insisted, hadnever belonged to Triphylia, but ought to be restoredto them, having been one of those that were incorpo­rated by the council of the Arcadians for the foundingof Megalopolis. These measures had the desired effectof strengthening his connexion with the Achaeans. Theaffections of the Macedonians he conciliated by histreatment of Heraclides: for finding that, from havingcountenanced this man, he had incurred the generaldispleasure of his subjects, he charged him with anumber of crimes, and threw him into chains, to thegreat joy of the people. In his preparations for war,he exerted the most vigorous efforts; exercised boththe Macedonian and mercenary troops in arms, and, inthe beginning of spring sent Athenagoras, with all theforeign auxiliaries and light troops, through Epirusinto Chaonia, to seize the pass at Antigonia, which theGreeks called Stena. He followed, in a few days, withthe heavy troops; and having viewed every situationin the country, he judged that the most advantageous