OCR Output RUBRAE. KCBRUM MARE. 857 rifk The name of Itugone, applied to one of tlieire branches of tlie Fiumicino, would be of morei-ur. if it were ceruin that this name h:id not been0'h*tnJ by antiquarians to suit their own purposes,•t it appears that old maps and books write theM /tipwL Two arguments, however, may beaatord as almost decisive in favour of the Finmi-ua» compared with the Uuos 1st The distance><i .11 the Tabula of 12 miles from Ariminom,n-.-n!M exactly with the distance of the Fiumicinon last e4y, aa stated by Cluverius, who examined> ^urstion on the spot; and 2ndly, the redness of • ;•»••>I in the lied of the stream, from which its imposed to have derived its name, mid which istjnil; alludtd to by Sidonius Apollinaris, as wellI' Ucao (Sidon. Ep. i. 5; Lucan, i. 214), wastarked by Cluverius as a character of the Fiu-r>>w. which was wholly wanting in the Luto.^ r.:romatance which has beeu relied on by sometan. that the latter river is a more considerable. rapid stream than the other, and would therefore4*sle a better frontier, is certainly of no value, Luean distinctly speaks of the Rubicon as abat stream, with little water in it except whenh-as by the winter ruins. tat arguments in favour of the Fiumicino oratrial (if we retain the name of the principal of'Jiit continents) thus appear decidedly to prc-■ante; bat the question still requires a carefulaunties on the spot, for the statements of Clu-ae, though derived from persona) observation, doU» well with the modern maps, and it is notncuole ttwt the petty streams in question may * s&dergime considerable changes since his time:awt probable is it that such changes may havea plan sines) the time of Caesar. (Cluver. Ital.36 — 299; Blomdi Klavii Italia llluttrata,KJ; Albert!, Detcrizione tf Italia, p. 246;psj. Carta as Jlomagna; Mannert. OecgrajthieJasleas, vol. i. p. 234; Murray's Handbook fur-il Italy, p. 104. The older dissertations on•atjiTt will be found in Graevius and Bur­ks Tktmnu, vol. vii. part 2.) [K. H. H.JCBKAE and Al> BUBBAS, a town in His-s Bartica, now Cabczat Kubiat. (/<- Ant. p.) [T. 11.1).] iwacsrs i.acu& [Atax.] 1;BK1CATA ( PooeoiWa, Ptol. ii. 6. § 74),aland city of the Laee'tani in the NK. part ofsasa Tamconerisis, on the river Uubrieatus;■i*t to Keicliard, Olaa. [T. H. 1).] CBUCA'TL'S o«- -UM CPoofiphraToj, l'tol. ii.IS), a nrer of Hispania Tarracouensis flowing•a- Mare Internum a little \V. of Barcino, thera LUbrtgat. (Mela, ii. 6. § 5; Plitv. iii. 3. s. [T.H.D.] rBRIPATUS, in Numidia. [ICmi'ihucatus.]iUl'M MARE, or ERYTHliAElM MAIM.'.< oiAa^-rj. Ji- r- • i. ISO, 202, ii. 8, 158,« 39: I'olvb. r. 54. § 12, ix. 43. § 2; Si rub.- 3?. 33, AO, 56, xvi. pp. 765, 779, xvii. pp.415. Pomp. Mela, iii. 8. § 1; Plin. ti 2. 6. 7). i -: Erythr* in Herodotus has a wide ex­it iacliklirtg the Indian Ocean, and its twoil* fad Sea and the Persian Gulf [Pkksicus*' ■turn latter he d«*» not seem to have con->iyi rait", but as part of a continuous sea-*?*f Uh /tW Sat specifically U meant it bearsua* *** Arabic us Sinus [Aradicus Sinus].tVark, vail-like masses of coral which form the» m fringing reefs of the cleft by which the waters of the Indian Ocean advance through the8trait8 of Bab-el-Mandeb, with their red and purplehues, were no doubt the original source of the name.Thus also in Hebrew (Exod. x. 19, xiii. 18; Ps.cvi. 7, 9, 22) it was called "yam sftph," or the** weedy sea," from the coralline forests lying belowtlie surface of the water. Ramses Miamouin (Sesos-tris) was the first (from 1388 to 1322, B.C.) — sosaid the priests — who with long ships subjected tohis dominion the dwellers on the coast of the Eryth­raean, until at length sailing onwards, lie arrived nta sea so shallow as to be no longer navigable.Diodorus (i. 55, 56; comp. Herod, ii. 102) assertsthat this conqueror advanced in India beyond theGanges, while Strabo (xvi. p. 760) speaks of amemorial pillar of Sesostris near the strait of Deireor Bab-el-Mandeb. It appears that the PersianGulf had been opened out to Phoenician navigationas three places were found there which bore similarif not identical names with those of Phoenicia, Tylusor Tyros, Aradus, and Dora (Strab. xvi, pp. 760,784, comp. i. p. 42), in which were temples resem­bling those of Phoenicia (comp. Kenrick, Phoenicia,p. 48). The expeditions of Hiram and Solomon,conjoint undertakings of the Tyrians and Israelites,sailed from Ezion Geber through the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb to Ophir, one locality of which may befixed in the basin of tlie Erythraean or Indian Ocean[Ophik]. The Lagid kings of Aepypt availedthemselves with great success of the channel bywhich nature brought the traffic and intercourse ofthe Intlian Ocean, within a few miles of the coast ofthe Interior Sea. Their vessels visited tlie wholewestern peninsula of India from the gulf of liary-gaza, Guzerat, and Catnbay, along the coasts ofMalabar to the Hrahminical sanctuaries of CajteComorin, and to the great island of Taprnbane orCryton. Nearchus and the companions of Alex­ander were not ignorant of the existence of theperiodical winds or monsoons which favour thenavigation between the E. coast of Africa, and theN. and \Y. coasts of India. Erom the further know­ledge acquired by navigators of this remarkablelocal direction of the wind, they were afterwardsemboldened to sail from Ocelis in the straits of Bab-cl-Mawleb and hold a direct coune along the oj>ensea to Miiziris. the great mart on the Malabarcoast (S. of Mangahrr), to which internal trafficbrought articles of commerce from the E. coast ofthe Indian peninsula, and even gold from the remoteChryse. The Roman empire in its greatest extenton its E. limit reached only to the meridian of thePersian Gulf but Stmbo (i. p. 14, ii. p. 118, xvi.p. 781, xvii. pp. 798, 815) saw in Aegypt withsurprise the number of ships which sailed fromMyos Ilonnos to India. From the Zend and San­scrit words which have been preserved in the gen-graphical nomenclature of Ptolemy, his tabulargeography remains nn historic monument of thecommercial relations W-tween tlie West and the mostdistant regions of Southern and Central Asia. Atthe same time Ptolemy (iv. 9, vii. 3. § 5) did notgive up the fable of the" unknown southern land"connecting Prasum Prom, with CaHigara andThinac (Sinaruin Meln^'lis). and therefore joinedE. Africa with the land of Tsin or China, Thisisthmus-hypothesis, derived from views which may! be traced back to Hipparchus and Marinus of Tyre,in w hich, however. Slrabo did not concur, made theIndian Ocean a Mediterranean sea. About half acentury later than Ptolemy a minute, and a* it ap­