OCR Output WARS OF TOE JEWS. Book tf. for the elders of the Jews were not able to put a stop to theirown people that were disposed to be tumultuous, and theGreeks thought it a shame for them to be overcome by the Jews.Now these Jews exceeded the others in riches, and strength ofbody; but the Grecian part had the advantage of assistance fromthe soldiery ; for the greatest part of the Roman garrison wasraised out of Syria, and being thus related to the Syrian part,they were ready to assist it. However, the governors of the-city were concerned to keep all quiet, and whenever they caughtthose that were most for fighting on either side, they punishedthem with stripes and bands. Yet did not the sufferings ofthose that were caught affright the remainder, or make themdesist; but they were still move and more exasperated, and deepengaged in the sedition. And as Felix came once into the mar­ket-place, and commanded the Jews, when they had beaten theSyrians, to go their ways, and threatened them if they wouldnot, and they would not obey him, he sent his soldiers out uponthem, and slew a great many of them, upon which it fell outthat what they had was plundered. And as the sedition stillcontinued, he chose out the most eminent men on both sides asambassadors to Nero, to argue about their several privileges. CHAP. XIV. Festus succeeds Ftlix, wlo is succeeded by Albinus, as he is byFloras; who, by the barbarity of his government, forces tieinto the war. § 1 . "VTO W it was that Festus succeeded Felix, as procurator,JLN and made it his business to correct those that made dis­turbances in the country. So he caught the greatest part ofthe robbers, and destroyed a great many of them. But thenAlbinus, who succeeded Festus, did not execute his office as theother had done; nor was there any sort of wickedness that couldbe named but he had an hand in it. Accordingly, he did not on­ly, in his political capacity, steal and plunder every one's sub­stance, nor did he only burden the whole nation with taxes, buthe permitted the relations of such as were in prison for robbery,and had been laid there, either by the senate of every city, or bythe former procurators, to redeem them for money; and no bo­dy remained in the prisons, as a malefactor, but he who gavehim nothing. At this time it was, that the enterprises of theseditious at Jerusalem, were very formidable ; the principal menamong them purchasing leave of Albinus to go on with theirseditious practices; while that part of the people who delightedin disturbances joined themselves to such as had fellowship with Albinus ;