OCR Output NOTES ON THE A dragon, too, is very properly considered as one of the symbolsbelonging to this goddess. For, as we have before observed, tbiianimal signifies the partial life of the foul, or, in other words,the condition of its intellect when separated from diif'me intelltBs:and it is the province of Minerva, as we are informed by Proclus,to establish all partial intellects, in the universal intellect of Jupiter. With respect to Pandora, it is well known that, according tothe fable, (he was a woman made out of earth by Vulcan, at thecommand of Jupiter, in order to take vengeance on Prometheusfor having stolen fire from heaven; that she was adotned by eachgod with some particular gift; and that stie was afterwards sentby Jupiter to Epimetheus the brother of Prometheus with a boxfull of all-various evils. The recondite meaning however of thisfable is, I fear, at present perfectly unknown; and therefore 1shall present the reader with the following beautiful explanationof it from the MS. Scholia of Olympiodorus on the Gorgias ofPlato:—" Prometheus is the infpective guardian of the descent oflational souls: for to exert a providential energy is the employ­ment of the rational foul, and prior to any thing else, to knowitself. Irrational natures indeed perceive through percuffion,and prior to impulsion know nothing: but the rational nature isable, prior to information siom another, to know what is use­ful. Hence F.pimetbeut is the infpective .guardian of theirrational foul, because it knows through percuffion, and notprior to it. Prometheus, therefore, is that power which presidesover the descent of rational souls. But Jire signifies the rationalsoul itself; because, as sire tends upwards, so the rational soulpursues things on high. But you will fay, Why is this fire said tohave been stolen? I answer, That which is stolen is transferredfrom its proper place to one that is foreign. Since, therefore,the rational soul is sent from its proper place of abode on high,to earth as to a foreign region, on this account the fire is said tobe stolen. But why was it concealed in a reed? Because a reedis cavernous like a conduit pipe (afftyysijijf), and therefore sig­ nifies