OCR Output NOTES ON THE FOURTEENTH CHAPTER. lix of Helenopolis, and Justinian adorned with manysplendid buildings (Procop. de Ædiriciis, v. 2.).It is indeed probable enough that Helena's fatherkept an inn at Drepanura; and that Constantiusmight lodge there when he returned from a Persianembassy in the reign of Aurelian. But in the wan­dering life of a soldier, the place of his marriage,and the place where his children are born, havevery little connexion with each other. j. Theclaim of Naissus is supported by the anonymouswriter, published at the end of Ammianus, p. 710,and who in general copied very good materials; andit is confirmed by Julius Firmicius, (de Astrologia,1. i. c. 4.) who flourished under the reign of Con­stantine himself. Some objections have been raisedagainst the integrity of the text, and the applicationof the passage of Firmicius; but the former is esta­blished by the best MSS. and the latter is very ablydefended by Lipfius dc Magnitudine Romana, 1. iv.c. 11. et supplement, [ii] Literis minus instructus. Anonym, adAmmian. p. 710. [12] Galerius, or perhaps his own courage, ex­posed him to single combat with a Sarmatian(Anonym, p. 710.), and with a monstrous lion. SeePraxagoras apud Photium, p. 63. Praxagoras, anAthenian philosopher, had written a life of Con-stantine, in two books, which are now lost. Hewas a contemporary. [13] Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 78, 79, Lactantius deM. P. c. 24. The former tells a very foolish story,that Constantine caused all the post horses, which hehad used, to be hamstrung. Such a bloody execu­tion, without preventing a pursuit, would undoubt­edly have occasioned suspicions that might havestopped his journey. [14] Anonym, p- 710. Panegyr. Veter. vii. 4.But Zosimus, 1. ii, p. 79. Euscbius de Vit. Con­stant. 1. i. c. 21. and Lactantius de M. P. c. 24.suppose, with less accuracy, that he found his fatheron his death-bed. [15] Cunctis qui aderant annitentibus, fed præ-cipue Croco (alii EroceJ Alamannorum Rege,auxilii gratia Constanti'um comitato, imperium capit.Victor Junior, c. 41. This is perhaps the firstinstance of a barbarian king, who assisted the Ro­man arms, with an independent body of his ownsubjects. The practice grew familiar, and at lastbecame fatal. [16] His panegyrist Eumenius (vii. 8.) venturesto affirm, in the presence of Constantine, that heput spurs to his horse, and tried, but in vain, t#escape from the hands of his soldiers. [17] Lactantius de M. P. c. 25. Eumenii:*(vii. 8 ) gives a rhetorical turn to the whole trans­action. [18] The choice of Constantine, by his dyingfather, which is warranted by reason, and insinuatedby Eumenius, seems to be confirmed by the mostunexceptionable authority, the concurring evidenceof Lactantius (de M. P. c. 24.) and of Libanius(Oration i.), of Euscbius (in Vit. Constantine, L i.c. 18. zi.J, and of Julian (Oration L). [19] Of the three sisters of Constantine, Con-stantia married the emperor Licinius, Anastasia theCæsar Bassianus, and Eutropia the consul Nepo*tianus. The three brothers were, Dalmatius, Juliu*Constantius, and Annibalianus, of whom we shallhave occasion to speak hereafter. [20] See Gruter Inscript. p. 178. The sixprincesare all mentioned, Diocletian and Maximian asthe senior Augusti and fathers of the emperors.They jointly dedicate, for the use of their oivaRomans, this magnificent edifice. The architectshave delineated the ruins of these Thermæ; and theantiquarians, particularly Donatus and Nardini,have ascertained the ground which they covered. Oneof the great rooms is now the Carthusian church;and even one of the porter's lodges is sufficient toform another church, which belongs to the Feu-illans. [21] See Lactantius de M. P. c. 26.31. [22] The vith Panegyric represents the conductof Maximian in the most favourable light, and theambiguous expression of Aurelius Victor, "re-"tractante diu," may signify, either that he con­trived, or that he opposed the conspiracy. SeeZosimus, 1. ii. p. 79. aud Lactantius de M. P.c. zf. [23] The circumstances of this war, and thedeath of Scvcrus, are very doubtfully and variouslytold in our ancient fragments (see Tillemont, Hist,des Empercurs, torn. iv. part i. p. 555-). 1 havjendeavoured to extract from them a consistent andprobable narration.. h 2 I he