OCR Output 'Chap. XXI. WARS OF THJE JEWS. >15 those Laodiceans who lived by the sea side; and for those ofAscalon he built baths and costly fountains, as also cloistersround a court, that were admirable, both for their workman­ship and largeness. Moreover, he dedicated groves and meadowsto some people; nay, not a few cities there were who had landsof his donation, as if they were parts of his own kingdom. Healso bestowed annual revenues, and those for ever also, on thesettlements for exercises, and appointed for them, as well as forthe people of Cos, that such rewards should never be wanting.He also gave corn to all such as wanted it, and conferred upon.Rhodes large sums of money for building ships, and this he didin many places, and frequently also. And when Apollo'stemple had been burnt down, he rebuilt it at his own charges,after a better manner than it was before. What need I speakof the presents he made to the Lycians and Samnians ? or of hisgreat liberality through all Ionia? and that according to everybody's wants of them. And are not the Athenians, and Lace­demonians, and Nicopolitans, and that Pergamus which is inMysia, full of donations that Herod presented them withal? Andas for that large open place belonging to Antioch in Syria, didnot he pave it with polished marble, though it were twenty fur­longs long? and this when it was shunned by all men before,because it was full of dirt and filthiness, when he besides- adorn-,ed the same place with a cloister of the same length. 12. It is true, a man may say, these were favours peculiar tothose particular places, on which he bestowed his benefits; butthen what favours he bestowed on the Eleans was a donation notonly in common to all Greece, but to all the habitable earth, asfar as the glory of the Olympic games reached. For when heperceived that they were come to nothing, for want of money,and that the only remains of ancient Greece were in a mannergone, he not only became one of the combatants in that return,of the fifth-year games, which in his sailing to Rome he hap.pened to be present at, but he settled upon them revenues ofmoney for perpetuity, insomuch, that his memorial as a com­batant there can rrever fail. It would be an infinite task if Ishould go over his payments of people's debts, or tributes, forthem, as he eased the people of Phasaelus, of Batanea, and of thesmall cities about Cilicia, of those annual pensions they beforepaid. However, the fear he was in much disturbed the great­ness of his soul, lest he should be exposed to envy, or seem tohunt after greater things than he ought, while he bestowedmore liberal gifts upon these cities, than did their ownersthemselves. 13. Now Herod had a body suited to his soul, and was ' R r 2 ' ever