OCR Output 80 ITALIA. ITALIA. of these the latter measurement U almost exactlycorrect, but the former much overstated, as he isspeaking there of Italy exclusive of Cisalpine Gaul.The total length of Italy (in the wider sense of theword), from the foot of the Alps near Aoata (Au­gusts l'raetorin) to the Iapygian promontory, is about620 geog. miles, as measured in a direct line on amap; but from the samo point to the promontory ofI.eucopetra, which is the extreme southern point ofItaly, is above 660 geog. miles. Pliny states thedistance from the same starting-point to Rhegiumat 1020 M. P., or 816 geog. miles, which is greatlyoverstated, unless we suppose him to follow thewindings of the road instead of measuring the dis­tance geographically. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 6.) He alsostates the greatest breadth of Italy, from the Varusto the Arsia, at 410 M. P., which is very nearlycorrect; the actual distance from the Varus to thehead of the Adriatic, measured in a straight line,being 300 geog. miles (375 M. P.), whilo fromthence to the Arsia is about 50 geog. miles. Plinyadils, that the breadth of the peninsula, from themouths of the Tiber to those of the Atemus, is130 M. P., which considerably exceeds the truth forthat particular point; but the widest part of thepeninsula, from Ancona across to the Monte Ar~arntaro, is 130 geog., or 162 Itoman, miles. III. Climate asd Natural Productions. Italy was not less renowned in ancient than inmodern times for it* beauty and fertility. For thisit was indebted in great part to its climate, com­bined with the advantages of its physical configu­ration. Extending from the parallel of 30° N. lat.to 46° 30', its southern extremity enjoyed the sameclimate with Greece, while its northern jiortions wereon a par with the S. of France. The lofty range ofApennines extending throughout its whole length,and the seas which bathe its shores on both sides,contributed at once to temper and vary its climate,so as to adapt it for the productions alike of thetemperate and the warmest parts of Kurope. Hencethe variety as well as abundance of its natural pro­duce, which excited the admiration of so manyancient writers. The fine burst of enthusiasm withwhich Virgil sings the prais-s of his native landit too well known to require notice (Virg. Gtorgii. 136—176) ; but even the prosaic Dionysiusand Strabo are kindled into almost equal ardourby the same theme. The former writer remarks,that of all countries with which he was acquaintedItaly united the most natural advantages: for thatit did not, like Egypt or Babylonia, possess a soiladapted fur agriculture only; but while the Cam-panian plains rivalled, if they did not surpass, infertility all other arable lands, the olives of Mcssa-pia, Daunia, and the Sabincs, were not excelled byany oilieni; and the vineyards of Etruria, the Fa-l.Tiiuvn and the Alban hills, produced wines of themost excellent quality, and in the greatest abundance.Nor was it less favourable to the rearing of flocks,whether of sheep or goats; while its pastures wereof the richest description, and supported innumerableherds both of horses and cattle. Its mountain sideswere clothed with magnificent forests, affordingabundance of timber for ship-building and all otherpurp&es. which could be transported to the coastwith facility by its numerous navigable rivers.Abundance of warm springs in different parts of thecountry supplied not only the means of luxuriouslaths, but \aluablc medical remedies. Its seas abounded in fish, and its mountains contained mine*of all kinds of metals; but that which was tbogreatest advantage of all was the excellent tempe­rature of its climate, free alike from the extreme* atheat and cold, and adapted for all kinds of plantsand animals. (I)ionys. i. 36, 37.) Strabo dwellsnot only on these natural resources, but on its po­litical advantages as a seat of empire; defended notwo sides by the sea, on the third by almost im­passable mountains; possessing excellent ports onboth seas, yet not affording too great facilities ofaccess; and situated in such a position, with regardto the great nations of Western Europe, on the oneside, and to Greece and Asia, on the oilier, as seemedto destine it for universal dominion. (Strab. vi p.286.) Pliny, as might be expected, is not less en­thusiastic in favour of his native country, and Varroadds that of all countries it was that in which thegreatest advantage was derived from its nat'iralfertility by careful cultivation. (Plin. iii. 5. a. 6,xxxvii. 13. s. 77; Varr. R. R. i. 2.) It is probable that the climate of Italy did notdiffer materially in ancient times from what it is atthe present day. The praises bestowed on it for itsfreedom from excessive heat in summer may surprisethose who compare it in this respect with morenorthern climates; but it is to be remembered thatancient writers spoke with reference to the countriesaround the Mediterranean, and were more familiarwith the climate of Africa, Syria, and Egypt, thanwith those of Gaul or Germany. On the other hand,there are passages in the Roman writers that seemto indicate a degree of cold exceeding what is foen 1at the present day, especially in the neighbourhoodof Rome. Horace speaks of Soracte as white withsnow, and the Alban hills as covered with it on tbe>first approach of winter (Hor. Carm. i. 9, Ep. i. 7-10); and Juvenal even alludes to the Tiber bein-covered with ice, as if it were an ordinary occurrence(vi. 522). Some allowance may be made for pnrtivalexaggeration; but still it is probable that the climateof Italy was somewhat colder, or rather that thewinters were more severe than they now are, thoughthis remark must be confined within narrow limits;and it is probable that the change which lias takenplace is far less than in Gaul or Germany. Great stress has also been laid by many modernwriters upon the fact that populous cities then ex­isted, and a thriving agricultural population wasfound, on sites and in districts now desolated bymalaria; and hence it is inferred that the climate baabecome much more unhealthy in modern times. Butpopulation and cultivation have in themselves astrong tendency to repress the causes of malaria.The fertile districts on the coasts of Southern Italyonce occupied by the flourishing Greek colonies arenow pestilential wastes; but they became almost de­solate from other causes before they grew so ns-healthy. In the case of Paestum, s marked dimi­nution in the effects of malaria has been perceived,even from the slight amount of population that hasbeen attracted thither since the site has becroe thefrequent resort of travellers, and the partial culti­vation that has resulted from it Nor can it beasserted that Italy, even in its most flourishing days,was ever free from this srource, though [articularlocalities were undoubtedly more healthy than atpresent. Thus, the Mnrrmma of Tuscany was 0'<e.l,even in the time of Pliny, for its insalubrity (Plin.Ep. v. 6); tho neighbourhood of Ardea was almatuninhabited from the tame cause, at a still earlier