OCR Output 986 SIC1LIA.SICI like course, from the mountains to the sea. Theiridentification is for the most part very obscure anduncertain. Thus we find three rivers mentioned inconnection with Segesta, and all of them probablyflowing through its territory, the Porpax, Telmessus,and CitlMEssiTS or Crimiscs. The last of these isprobably the Fiume di S. Bartolomeo, about 5 milesE. of Segesta: the other two, which are mentionedonly by Aelian ( V. II. ii. 33), cannot be identified,though one of them is probably the Fbtme. Gag-gera, which flows beneath Segesta itself, andfalls into the F. di S. Bartolomeo near its mouth.Hut, to complicate the question still more, we aretold that the names of Scamander and Siinois weregiven by the Trojan colonists to two rivers nearSegesta; and the former name at least seems to havebeen really in use. (Strab. xiii. p.608; Diod. XX. 71.)Proceeding eastward we find: 1, the Ore thai (Vib.Se«|uest. p. 15), still called the Orcto, a small streamflowing under the walls of Panorama ; 2, the Kleu-therns ('EAfuflfpov, PtrX iii. 4. § 3), placed by Pto­lemy between Panormus and Soluntum, and whichmust therefore be the/turns tHBagaria; 3,the Dorth-ern Himkra, commonly ideniiried with the Fiumedi S, Leonardo, near Tertnint, but more probably theFlume Grandet about 8 miles further E. [Hikeba];4, theMonalus (MoVaAos, Ptol.), between Cephaloe-dium and Alaesa, now the Fvllinn; 5, the Ilalesusor Alacsus, flowing beneath the city of Alaesa, nowthe Pettmeo; 6, the Chydas (XisSas, Ptol.), tetweenAlaesa and Aluntium; 7, the Timethus (TtprjOos,Id.), between Agathyrna and Tyndaris; 8, the Heli­con ('E\ikwp, Id.), between Tyndaris and Mylac;0, the Phacelinus (Vib. Sequent.), which was nearMy lap, or between that city and Mcssana (the nearerdetermination of these four last is wholly uncertain);10, the Melna of Ovid (Fast. iv. 476) is generallyplaced in the same neighbourhood, though withoutany obvious reason. Along the E. coast the names may be moreclearly identified. 1. The Onobalas of Appian(B. C. v. 109) is probably identical with the Ace-sines already noticed; 2, the Acis, a very smallstream, is the Fiume di Jaci; 3, the Amesani:s,flowing through the city of Catana, is the Giudicelh;4, the Terias is the Fiume di S. Leonardo, whichflows from the Lake of Lentini; 5, the Pantagiasis the Porcari; 6, the ALABU8 is the Cantaro, asmall stream flowing into the bay of Augusta. TheAnapus and its confluent the Cyane have beenalready mentioned. S. of Syracuse occur threesmall rivers, memorable in the retreat of the Athe­nians: these are, 1, the Cacypabis (CastibiU); 2,the EitiNi-:tTs (Fiume di Avoid); and 3, the Asina-RUfl (Fulconara). A few miles S. of this was theHsLOBUS, now called the Abisso, flowing by the cityof the same name. No other stream occurs betweenthis and Cape Pachynum. Sicily contains no lakes that deserve the name;hut there are a few pools or marshy lagoons, of whichthe names have been preserved to us. Of the latterdescription were the Lysimki.ia Palus near Syra­cuse, and the Camari.na Palus adjoining thecity of the same name. The LACU8 PAUOOBUM,on the contrary, was a deep pool or basin of volcanicorigin: while the small lake called by the poetsPcrgus or Pergusa is still extant in the neighbour­hood of Euna. The Logo di Lentini, though muchthe most considerable accumulation of waters inSicily, is not mentioned by any ancient author. 1 he towns and cities of Sicily were very numerous. The Greek colonies anddencies have been alread;history of their settlementowns so far as they canenumerated in geographhto thpir origin, omittingin the Itineraries, which \or stations. 1. Beginningceeding along the E. coawere: M esaa sa, TauroCatana and Syracuse.early period, as well as Mtuated between Catana ancolonies of Calupolis adisappeared at an earlysituated on or near the 1to the N. of Syracuse, buto their situation. S. ofCape Pachynus, was Heiriver of the same name.pn>ceeding along the S.cos PlUNTIAS, AGRIOEXTt Thermae SelinuntiaiLtLTBAKUlL Besides thof CAMICUS, Cae>a, andependencies of Agrigemmust be placed on or neai3. N. of Lilybaeum wasexist at a comparatively©(Trapani) at the N\V.tween this and Panormtof the mountain of the sitance from the coast, the .CABA, and Cetaria.Panormus, along the NSoiantum, Thermae,Alaesa, Caiacta, JTyndaris, and Mytak. The towns in the intenumerate: with regardare at a loss to determithe island they were siUenumeration it will beisland into three portion:western half of Sicily sjand a line drawn from ithe other two, the NE. arated by the course of tlof the Syinsethus to tldistrict were Segestawesterly of the inland citHypsas, about midway b<and Macella, both ofplaned in the mountainoand Panormus; Trioca1the mountains inland froiSohkra, of very uncertuated in the same partthe neighbourhood of Jthe sources of the W. brMadonia mountains; anchead of the Fiume Grasame river. Paroitson the northern declivhbut further to the W. A little to the E. of tlpossible in the centre of tfortress of Enna (Costboundary line between tmay be conveniently dithe NE. region were: