OCR Output CHAP. LI. 397 own hands, and administered the comfortable reflection,that the infidels partook of their sufferings without par­taking of their reward. Four thousand and thirty of theMoslems were buried in the field of battle; and the skillof the Armenian archers enabled seven hundred to boastthat they had lost an eye in that meritorious service.The veterans of the Syrian war acknowledged that it wasthe hardest and most doubtful of the days which theyhad seen. But it was likewise the most decisive: manythousand of the Greeks and Syrians fell by the swordsof the Arabs; many were slaughtered, after the defeat,in the woods and mountains; many, by mistaking theford, were drowned in the waters of the Yermuk; andhowever the loss may be magnified,8 the Christian writersconfess and bewail the bloody punishment of their sins.hManuel, the Roman general, was either killed at Da­mascus, or took refuge in the monastery of mount Sinai., An exile in the Byzantine court, Jabalah lamented themanners of Arabia, and his unlucky preference of theChristian cause.' He had once inclined to the profes­sion of Islam; but in the pilgrimage of Mecca, Jabalahwas provoked to strike one of his brethren, and fledwith amazement from the stern and equal justice ofthe caliph. The victorious Saracens enjoyed at Damas­cus a month of pleasure and repose: the spoil wasdivided by the discretion of Abu Obeidah: an equal f We killed of them, says Abu Obeidah to the caliph, one hundred and fifty thou­sand, and made prisoners forty thousand. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 241.) As I cannotdoubt his veracity, nor believe bis computation, I must suspect that the Arabic his­torians indulged themselves in the practice of composing speeches and letters fortheir heroes. "After deploring the sins of the Christians, Theophanes adds, (Chronograph, p.376.) anrn S i;i/uiae; A/4n\nx TOTTTOT .'•,•«: TOT >••"-» TOW Xfwrou, iut yofrii s wftirci fogavrawtf TOU pvft&uisv ftyvnv n xara TO ra/3tOay Xiy» (does he mean Aiznadin ?) -xaiIfp/^suxa?, KAI my aQiff&fft cufta'ro%itft&i. His account is brief and obscure, but he ac-cuses the numbers of the enemy, the adverse wind, and the cloud of dust: ft*, ivn-fliml; (the Romans) arrtirfMumftu »x"f »C *'» TO» MvupTtv, vrrtmtu, xai taurou; 8t\-Xom; IK -rit-; rrmiaui; TOU liffa^Btu irirraftm out amiXero aftnr. (Chronograph, p.280. 'See Abulfeda, (Annal. Moslem, p. 70, 71.) who transcribes the poetical com­plaint of Jabalah himself, and some panegyrical strains of an Arabian poet, towhom the chief of Gossan sent from Constantinople a gift of five hundred pieces ofgold by the hands of the ambassadors of Omar.