OCR Output Chap. XII. -WARS OF TH£ JEWS. SS9 were in a flame, and assembled themselves so many of them bytheir zeal for their religion, as by an engine, and ran togetherwith united clamour to Cesarea, to Cumanus, and made suppll-cation to him, that he would not overlook this man, who hadoffered such an affront to God, and to his law, but punish himfor what he had done. Accordingly, he, perceiving that the mul­titude would not be quiet unless they had a comfortable answerfrom him, gave order that the soldier should be brought, anddrawn through those that required to have him punished to ex­ecution, which being done, the Jews went their ways. 3. After this there happened a fight between the Galileans andthe Samaritans; it happenedatavillage called Geman, which is si­tuate in the great plain of Samaria, where, as a great number ofJews were going up to Jerusalem to the feast [of tabernacles],a certain Galilean was slain; and besides a vast number of peopleran together out of Galilee, in order to fight with the Samaritans jbut the principal men among them came to Cumanus, and be­sought him, that before the evil became incurable, he wouldcome into Galilee,and bring the authorsof thismurdertopunish­ment, for that there was no other way to make the multitude se­parate without coming to blows. However, Cumanus postpon­ed their supplications to the other affairs he Mas then about, andsent the petitioners away without success. 4. But when the affair of this murder came to be told' at Je­rusalem, it put the multitude into disorder, and they left the feast,and without any generals to conduct them, they marched withgreat violence to Samaria; nor would they be ruled by any ofthe magistrates that were set over them, but they were mana­ged by one Eleazar, the son of Dineus, and by Alexander, inthese their thievish and seditious attempts. These men fell up­on those that were in the neighbourhood of the Acrabatene top-archy, and slew them, without sparing any age, and set the vil­lages on fire. 5. But Cumanus took one troop of horsemen, called the troopof Sebaste, out of Cesarea, and came to the assistance of thosethat were spoiled; he also seized upon a great number of thosethat followed Eleazar, and slew more of them. And as for therest of the multitude of those that went so zealously to fight withthe Samaritans, the rulers of Jerusalem ran out clothed withsackcloth, and having ashes on their head, and begged of themto go their ways, lest by their attempt to revenge themselvesupon the Samaritans, they should provoke the Romans to comeagainst Jerusalem; to have compassion upon their country andtemple, their children and their wives, and not bring the utmostdangers of destruction upon them, in order to avenge themselves upon