OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 77 suspicion of flattery. Above two hundred and fifty years after thedeath of Trajan, the senate, in pouring out the customary accla­mations on the accession of a new emperor, wished that he mightsurpass the felicity of Augustus, and the virtue of Trajan We may readily believe, that the father of his-country hesitated Hadria'Z*whether he ought to intrust the various characters of his nephewHadrian with sovereign power. In his last moments, the arts ofthe empress Plotina either fixed the irresolution of Trajan, or boldlysupposed a fictitious adoption,8; the truth of which could not besafely disputed, and Hadrian was peaceably acknowledged as his-lawful successor. Under his reign, as has been already mentioned,the empire flourished in peace and prosperity. He encouraged thearts, reformed the laws, asserted military discipline, and visited allhis provinces in person. His vast and active genius was equallysuited to the most enlarged views, and the minute details of civilpolicy. But the ruling passions of his foul were curiosity andvanity. As they prevailed, and as they were attracted by differentobjects, Hadrian was, by turns, an excellent prince, a ridiculoussophist, and a jealous tyrant. The general tenor of his conductdeserved praise for its equity and moderation. Yet in the first daysof his reign, he put to death four consular senators, his personalenemies, and men who had been judged worthy of empire; and thetediousness of a painful illness rendered him, at last, peevish andcruel. The senate doubted whether they should pronounce him agod or a tyrant; and the honours decreed to his memory weregranted to the prayers of the pious Antoninus !9. The caprice of Hadrian influenced his choice of a succeflor. Adoption of ..... l'ie el e a r.d After revolving in his mind several men of distinguished merit, youngtrwhom he esteemed and hated, he adopted Ælius Verus, a gay and ™'voluptuous nobleman, recommended by uncommon beauty to thelover of Antinous *°. But whilst Hadrian was delighting himselfwith his own applause, and the acclamations of the soldiers, whose consent