OCR Output CHAP. XLVIi: 63 self that they would gradually perceive the temporalbenefits of union with the empire and the church ofRome; and if he failed in exciting their gratitude, hemight hope to provoke the jealousy of their sovereign.In a later age, the Lutherans have been burnt at Paris,and protected in Germany, by the superstition and po­licy of the most Christian king. Their mis- ^he desire of gaining souls for God, and sub-sjons in jects for the church, has excited in every age theIndia,' diligence of the Christian priests. From theA^'SOO conquest of Persia they carried their spiritual—1200. arms to the north, the east, and the south; andthe simplicity of the gospel was fashioned and paintedwith the colours of the Syriac theology. In the sixthcentury, according to the report of a Nestorian travel­ler,* Christianity was successfully preached to the Bac-trians, the Huns,'the Persians, the Indians, the Parsar-menians, the Medes, and the Ekmites: the barbaricchurches, from the gulf of Persia to the Caspian sea,were almost infinite; and their recent faith was con­spicuous in the number and sanctity of their monks andmartyrs. The pepper coast of Malabar, and the islesof the ocean, Socotora and Ceylon, were peopled withan increasing multitude of Christians, and the bishopsand clergy of those sequestered regions derived theirordination from the Catholic of Babylon. In a subse­quent age, the zeal of the Nestorians overleaped thelimits, which had confined the ambition and curosity * See the Topographia Christiana of Cosmas, sumamed Indico-pleustes, or theradian navigator, lib. 3. p. 178, 179. lib. 11. f. 337.—The entire work, of whichsome curious extracts may be found in Photius, (cod. 36. p. 9,10. edit. HoescheL)Thevenot, (in the first part of bis Relation des Voyages, £c.) and Fabricius, (Bib-fiot. Graec. lib. 3. c. 25. torn. 2. p. 603—617.) has been published by father Mont-feucon at Paris, 1707, in the Nova Collectio Patrurn. (torn. 2. p. 113—346.) Itwas the design of the author to confute the impious heresy of those who maintainthat the earth is a globe, and not a flat oblong table, as it is represented in the Scrip­tures. (Kb. 2. p. 138.) But the nonsense of the monk is mingled with the practicalknowledge of the traveller, who performed his voyage, A. D.522. and published hisbook at Alexandria, A. D. 547. (lib. 2. p. 140, 141. Montfaucon, Prafat. c. 2.)The Nestorianism of Cosmas, unknown to his learned editor, was detected by LaCroze, (Christiauisme deslndes, torn. 1. p. 40—55.) and is confirmed by Aesemanai.(Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 605, 606.)