OCR Output 108 THE DECLINE AND FALL }'o; and Teias was unanimously chosen to succeed and revenge their departed hero.The new king immediately sent ambassadors to implore, or rather to purchase,the aid of the Franks, and nobly lavished, for the public safety, the riches whichhad been deposited in the palace of Pavia. The residue of the royal treasure wasguarded by his brother Aligern at Cumx in Campania; but the strong castle whichTotila had fortified, was closely besieged by the arms of Narses. From the Alpsto the foot of mount Vesuvius, the Gothic king, by rapid and secret marches, ad­vanced to the relief of his brother, eluded the vigilance of the Roman chiefs, andpitched his camp on the banks of the Sarnus or Draco,{l) which flows from Nu-ceria into the bay of Naples. The river separated the two armies: sixty dayswere consumed in distant and fruitless combats, and Teias maintained this impor­tant post, till he was deserted by his fleet and the hope of subsistence. With re­luctant steps he ascended the Lactarian mount, where the physicians of Rome,since the time of Galen, had sent their patients for the benefit of the air and themilk. (2) But the Goths soon embraced a more'generous resolution; to descendthe hill, to dismiss their horses, and to die in arms, and in the possession of free­dom. The king marched at their head, bearing in his right hand a lance, and anample buckler in his left: with the one he struck dead the foremost of the assail­ants; with the other he received the weapons which every hand was ambitious toaim against his life. After a combat of many hours, his left arm was fatigued bythe weight of twelve javelins which hung from his shield. Without moving fromhis ground, or suspending his blows, the hero called aloud on his attendants for afresh buckler, but in the moment, while his side was uncovered, it was pierced bya mortal dart. He fell: and his head, exalted on a spear, proclaimed to the na­tions, that the Gothic kingdom was no more. But the example of his death servedonly to animate the companions who had sworn to perish with their leader. Theyfought till darkness descended on the earth. They reposed on their arms. Thecombat was renewed with the return of light, and maintained with unabated vigourtill the evening of the second day. The repose of a second night, the want of wa­ter, and the loss of their bravest champions, determined the surviving Goths toaccept the fair capitulation which the prudence of Narses was inclined to propose.They embraced the alternative of residing in Italy as the subjects and soldiers ofJustinian, or departing with a portion of their private wealth, in search of someindependent country. (3) Yet the oath of fidelity or exile was alike rejected by onethousand Goths, who broke away before the treaty was signed, and boldly effect­ed their retreat to the walls of Pavia. The spirit, as well as the situation, of Ali­gern, prompted him to imitate rather than to bewail, his brother; a strong anddexterous archer, he transpierced with a single arrow the armour and breast ofhis antagonist; and his military conduct defended Cuma;(4) above a year againstthe forces of the Romans. Their industry had scooped the Sibyl's cave(5) into aprodigious mine; combustible materials were introduced to consume the temporaryprops: the wall and the gate of Cumic sunk into the cavern, but the ruins formeda deep and inaccessible precipice. On the fragment of a rock, Aligern stood aloneand unshaken, till he calmly surveyed the hopeless condition of his country, andjudged it more honourable to be the friend of Narses than the slave of the Franks.After the death of Teias, the Roman general separated his troops to reduce thecities of Italy; Lucca sustained a long and vigorous siege: and such was the humani­ty or the prudence of Narses, that the repeated perfidy of the inhabitants couldnot prov okc him to exact the forfeit lives of their hostages. These hostages were (1) Tlie bpx*vv of Prncopius (Goth. lib. iv. e. 35.) is evidently the Samus. The text it accused or alteredby the rash violence of Cldveritis (lib. iv. c. 3. p. 1156.:) but Caraillo Pellegrini of Naples (Discorsi sopra laCampanm, Felice, p. 330.331.) has proved from old records, that as early as the year 822 that river was calledthe Drucontio, or Draconcello. (2) Galen (de Method. Medendi, lib. v. apud CIsiver. lib. iv. c. 3. p. 1159, 1160.) describes the lofty site, pureair, and rich milk of mount Lactarius, whose medicinal benefits were equally known and sought in the time of'Syrnmnchus (lib. vi. epist. 18, and Cassiodorus Var. xi. 10.) Nothing; is now left except the name of the townof Lettere. (3) Buat (torn. xi. p. 2, fcc.) conveys to his favourite Pavavia this remnant of Gotht, who by others are bu­ried in the mountains of Uri,or restored to their native isle of Gothland (Mascou, Annot. 21.) (4) I leave Scaliger (Animadvrrs. in Euseb. p. 59.) and Salmasius (Exercitat. Plinuro, p. 51,52.) to quarrelabout the origin of dims, the oldest of the Greek colonies in Italy. (Strab. lib. v. p. 372. Velleius Paterculaflib. i. c. 4.,) already vacant in .luvenal's time, (Satir. 3.,) and now in ruins. (5) Arathias (lib. i. c. 21.) settles the Sibyl's cave under the waits of Cumae: he a (Trees with Servius (ad lib. 6./Sneid.:) nor can I perceive why their opinion should be rejected by Hevne. the excellent editor of Virjjil (torn,ii. p. 650,651.) In urbe media secreta religio! But Cunue was not yet built; and the lines (lib. vi. 98, 97.)would become ridiculous, if iEnens were actually in a Greek city.