OCR Output 132 LIVY. inhabitants, and as the Mamertines held Messana inSicily,—never entertaining a thought of making waron the Roman people or their allies. Did you intendto settle your habitations at Sucro? a place in which,if I your general at my departure, after finishing thebusiness of the province, had left you, and there toremain, you ought to have appealed to gods and men,on not being allowed to return to your wives and chil­dren. But supposing that you had banished out ofyour minds all recollection of them, as you did ofyour country and of me, let us examine what could beyour design, and whether it can be accounted for onthe supposition of a depravity of principle, without in­cluding also the utmost degree of folly. While I wasalive, and the other part of the army safe, with whichI took Carthage in one day, with which I vanquished,put to flight, and drove out of Spain, four generals,with four armies of the Carthaginians; could you ex­pect that you, who were but eight thousand men, (allof you of course inferior in worth to Albius and At-rius, since to their command you submitted your­selves,)—could you imagine, I say, that you shouldbe able to wrest the province of Spain out of thehands of the Roman people? I lay no stress on myown name, I put it out of the question, supposing my-self no farther ill treated, than in your easily and joy­fully giving credit to the report of my death. What!If I were dead; was the state to expire along withme? was the empire of the Roman people to fall withScipio? Jove, supremely great and good, forbid thatthe city built for eternity, under the favor and direc­tion of the gods, should last no longer than this frailand mortal body! Although so many illustrious com­manders, Flaminius, Paulus, Gracchus, Posthumius,Albinus, Marcus Marcellus, Titus Quintius Crispinus,Cneius Fulvius, my relations the Scipios, have allbeen lost in one war, yet the Roman people still sur­vive, and will survive, whilst a thousand others perish,some by the sword, some by disease: and must theRoman state have been carried out to burial along