OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. V>9 or even of admonition. Be assured, dread sir, that the greater part of your troopshave already deserted to the Goths. If the war could be achieved by the pre­sence of Belisarius alone, your wishes are satisfied; Belisarius in the midst of Italy.But if you desire to conquer, far other preparations are requisite: without a mili­tary force, the title of general is an empty name. It would be expedient to restoreto my service my own veterans and domestic guards. Before I can take the field,I must receive an adequate supply of light and heavy-armed troops; and it is only ,with ready money that you can procure the indispensable aid of a powerful bodyof the cavalry of the HUns."(l) An officer, in whom Belisarius confided, wassent from Ravenna to hasten and conduct the succours; but the message was ne­glected, and the messenger was detained at Constantinople by an advantageousmarriage. After his patience had been exhausted by delay and disappointmentthe Roman general repassed the Hadriatic, and expected at Dyrrachium the arri­val of the troops, which were slowly assembled among the subjects and allies ofthe empire. His powers were still inadequate to the deliverance of Rome, whichwas closely besieged by the Gothic king. The Appian way, a march of forty days,was covered by the barbarians; and as the prudence of Belisarius declined a battle,he preferred the safe and speedy navigation of five'days from the coast of Epirusto the mouth of the Tiber. After reducing, by force or treaty, the towns of inferior note in the midlandprovinces of Italy, Totila proceeded, not to assault but to encompass and starve,the ancient capital. Rome was afflicted by the avarice, and guarded by the va­lour, of Bessas, a veteran chief of Gothic extraction, who filled, with a garrisonof three thousand soldiers, the spacious circle of her venerable walls. From thedistress of the people he extracted a profitable trade, and secretly rejoiced in thecontinuance of the siege. It was for his use that the granaries had been replen­ished ; the charity of pope Vigilius had purchased and embarked an ample supply ofSicilian corn; but the vessels which escaped the barbarians were seized by a ra­pacious governor, who imparted a scanty sustenance to the soldiers, and sold theremainder to the wealthy Romans. The medimnus, or fifth part of the quarterof wheat, was exchanged for seven pieces of gold; fifty pieces were given for ant)X, a rare and accidental prize; the progress of famine enhanced this exhorbitantvalue, and the mercenaries were tempted to deprive themselves of the allowance,■which was scarcely sufficient for the support of life. A tasteless and unwholesomemixture, in which the bran thrice exceeded the quantity of flour, appeased thehunger of the poor; they were gradually reduced to feed on dead horses, dogs,cats, and mice, and eagerly, to snatch the grass, and even the nettles, which grewamong the ruins of the city. A crowd of spectres, pale and emaciated, their bo­dies oppressed with disease, and their minds with despair, surrounded the palaceof the governor, urged, with unavailing truth, that it was the duty of a master tomaintain his slaves, and humbly requested that he would provide for their sub­sistence, permit their flight, or command their immediate execution. Bessas re­plied, with unfeeling tranquillity, that it was impossible to feed, unsafe to dismiss,and unlawful to kill, the subjects of the emperor. Yet the example of a privatecitizen might have shown his countrymen that a tyrant cannot withhold the privi­lege of death. Pierced by the cries of five children, who vainly called on their fa­ther for bread, he ordered them to follow his steps, advanced with calm and silentdespair to one of the bridges of the Tiber, and, covering his face, threw himselfheadlong into the stream, in the presence of his family and the Roman people.To the rich and pusillanimous, Bessas(2) sold the permission of departure; butthe greatest part of the fugitives expired on the public highways, or were inter­cepted by the flying parties of barbarians. In the meanwhile, the artful govern­or soothed the discontent, and revived the hopes, of the Romans, by the vague re­ports of the fleets and armies which were hastening to their relief from the extremi­ties of the east. They derived more rational comfort from the assurance thatBelisarius had landed at the fwrt; and, without numbering his forces, they firmlyrelied on the humanity, the courage, and the skill of their great deliverer. (1) Procopius, lib. iii. e. 12. The soiil of a hero is deeply impressed on tlie letter j nor can we con­found such genuine and original acts with the elaborate and often empty speeches of the Byzantine his­torians - (*) The avarice of Bessas is not dissembled by Procopius, (lib. iii. c. 17.20.) He expiated the loss of Rome■liy the glorious conquest of Petrea: (Goth. lib. iv. c. 12.) but the same vices followed him from lite Tiber toihe Phasii: (c. 13.) and the historian is equally true to the merits and defects of his character. The chastise-jnent which the author of the romance ot Bclitairc has inflicted on the oppressors of Rome is more agreeableto justice than to history.