OCR Output 110 LIVY. bestowed by the dictators and consuls, and very few ofthe places were left to be filled by vote. This order wasproposed by Lucius Atilius and Caius Marcius, plebeiantribunes. Another was, that the people likewise shouldconstitute two naval commissioners, for the equippingand refitting of the fleet. The person who introducedthis order of the people was Marcus Decius, plebeiantribune. Another transaction of this year I should passover as trifling, were it not for the relation which itbears to religion. The flute players taking offence be­cause they had been prohibited, by the last censors,from holding their repasts in the temple of Jupiter,which had been customary from very early times, wentoff in a body to Tibur; so that there was not one leftin the city to play at the sacrifices. This affair gaveuneasiness to the senate on account of its consequencesto religion ; and they sent envoys to Tibur with in­structions, to endeavor that these men might be sentback to Rome. The Tiburtines readily promised com­pliance, and first calling them into the senate-house,warmly recommended to them to return thither; andthen, finding that they could not be prevailed on,practised an artifice not ill adapted to the dispositionsof that description of people: on a festival day, theyinvited them separately to their several houses, ap­parently with the intention of heightening the pleasureof their feasts with music, and there plied them withwine, of which such people are always fond, until theylaid them asleep. In this state of insensibility theythrew them into waggons, and carried them away toRome: nor did they know any thing of the matteruntil the wnggons having been left in the forum, thelight surprised them, still heavily sick from the de­bauch. The people then crowded about them, and, ontheir consenting at length to stay, privilege was grantedthem to ramble about the city in full dress, with music,during three days in every year. And that license,which we see practised at present, and the right ofbeing fed in the temple, was restored to those whoplayed at the sacrifices. These incidents occurred