OCR Output TLATAEA. PLATAKA. 639 tl rnrmriz for mtk Apace nearly parallel with oner*Srr, at lencfth unite and flow in a westerly di-M ieto the pnlf of Corinth. (Herod, ix. 51.)W oatnre of the ground would thus afford to the*l* abundance of water, and protection from thewar* cavalry. Tbe rvtreat, however, though forrt a dintance. was effected in disorder and eon-t_ The Greek centre, chiefly composed of Me­ruit* mad Corinthians, probably fearing that themi wooi'i not afford them sufficient protectionvm* the ene-n v s car airy, did not halt till theyca«d the temple of Hera, which was in front ofm*wn of Plataea. The Lacedaemonians on ther-. wvre delayed till the day began to dawn,ta* •obwtinaey of Amompharetus, and then beganharcii aenm the hills which separated them fromUixul. The Athenians on the left wing beganr aarch at the same time, and pot round the1w< . >t plain an the other bide on their way toti'i-irf After marchinc 10 stadia, Pausaniasc« the back of the Moloeis, at a place calleda temple of the Kleusinian» joined by Amompharetus,fearr he had to sustain the attack of the Persians,m%i rushed acrou the Asopus and up the hillf n* retreating t"<As soon as Pausanias was— by the Persians, he sent to the Athenians-- vi them to hasten to bis aid; but the comingi. » .-..I-.- j.i-irn'.i-.i tliL-m tVuiii doing bo.r; \^>J the Lacedaemonians and Tcgeatans had^•er the Persians alone without any assist-Irun the other Greeks, and to them alone be­lt* ffary of the victory. The Persians werehmi with £rem& slaughter, nor did they stop in'I till they had again crowed the Asopusm mj their fortified camp. The Thebans alsoTombed by tbe Athenian*, hut they retreatedmi orckr to The bos, being covered by theiry fraaa tike? pursnit of the Athenians. Thewhich was nearly 10 stadia distant,in the battle; but hearing that thegaining the victory, they lias-k* the mm imi of action, and, coming up in con*. mj aaaer m* €W>> were cut to pieces by the* i err. Meantime the Lacedaemonians pur-.» FW-i*^f to the fortified camp, which, how-s-w were unable to take until the Athenians,iat species of warfare, came to theirLaxricader* were then carried, ami aWith the exception ofArlabazus, only 3000 ofsaid to have escaped,the topography of thisGreece, vol. ii. p. 335, of Ortece, vol. v. p. 2l2,seqorr had been c gained on the soilred especial honour and:e Greeks. Notonlv was ■ csti;thm _. iA SO talents granted to them, whiclierecting a temple to Athena, butwith the duty of rendering everyto the tombs of the warriors* fallen to Uw battle, and of celebrating everyan the •eatrraJ of the Eleutheria in com-of the oWIjverance of tbe Greeks from*-s*. jJke. The festival was sacred to Zeuserca, t»* whom a tempi* was now erected atk. fa return fur these services Pausanias andn-tmmka swore to guarantee the independencemmhkhxr of the dtj and its territory. (Thuc.1st .l'rwt c. 19—91 \ Strab. ix. p. 412; Paus. ix. 2. § 4; for further details see Diet, of Ant.art. Elkuthkhia.) Plataea was of course now rebuilt, and its in­habitants continued unmolested till the commence­ment of the Peloponnesian War. In the spring ofB.C. 431, before any actual declaration of war, aparty of 300 Thebaic attempted to surprise Plataea.They were admitted within the walls in the nighttime by an oligarchical party of the citizens; but thePlataeans soon recovered from their surprise, and putto death 180 of the assailants. (Thuc. ii. 1, seq.)In the third year of the war (b. c. 429) the Pelo­ponnesian army under the command of Arehidamuslaid siege to Plataea. This siege is one of the mostmemorable in the annals of Grecian warfare, and hasbeen narrated at great length by Thucydides. ThePlataeans had previously deposited at Athens theirold men, women, and children; mid the garrison ofthe city consisted of only 400 citizens and 80 Athen­ians, together with 110 women to manage theirhousehold affairs. Yet this small fort e set at de­fiance the whole army of the Peloponnesians, who,after inany fruitless attempts to take the city byassault, converted the siege into a blockade, andraised a circumvallation round the city, consistingof two parallel walls, 1G feet nsunder, with a ditchon either side. In the second year of the blockade212 of the besieged during a tempestuous winter'snight succeeded in scaling the walls of circumval­lation and reaching Athens in safety. In the courseof the ensuing summer (n. c. 427) the remainder ofthe garrison were obliged, through failure of pro­visions, to surrender to the Peloponnesians. Theywere all put to death; and all the private buildingsrased to the ground by the Thebans, who with thematerials erected a sort of vast barrack round thetemple of Hern, both for the accommodation of vi­sitors, and to serve as an abode for those to whomthey let out the land. A new temple, of 100 feetin length (cei-y ^KaTOftirc5o?), was also built bythe Thebans in honour of Hera. (Thuc. ii. 71, seq.(hi. 20, seq., 52, seq.t 68.) The surviving Plataeans were kindly received bythe Athenians. They would appear even before thistime to have enjoyed the right of citizenship atAthens (*A0ij*euW (v^i/xaxot Kol woA7toi, Thuc in.63). The exact nature of this citizenship is un­certain; but that it was not the full citizenship,possessed by Athenian citizens, appears from a lineof Aristophanes, who speaks of certain slaves, whohad been engaged in sea-fights, being made Plataeans(tral nAorroiaj tvQvs «7rou K&m\ HovAcvv Scaworar,Ran. 706: com p. Schol. ad Aristoph. Han. 33;Boekh, labile Econ. of Athens, p. 262, 2nd ed.).Diodoras, in rolating their return to Athens at asubsequent time, says (xv. 46) that they receivedthe iVoroAiTfi'o; but that some of them at any rateenjoyed nearly the full privileges of Athenian citi­zens appears from the decree of the people quotedby Demosthenes (c. Seaer. p. 1380). On the wholesubject, see Hermann, Staatsalterth, § 117. In B. v. 420 the Athenians gave the Plataeansthe town of Scions as a residence. (Thuc. v. 32;Isocr. Paneg. § 109; Piodor. xii. 76 ) At the closeof the Peloponnesian War, they were compelled toevacuate Scione (Plut. Lysand. 14), and again founda hospitable welcome at Athens. Here they wereliving at the time of the peace of Antalcidas (b. c.387). which guaranteed the autonomy of the Gre­cian cities; and the Lacedaemonians, who were nowanxi his to humble the power of Thebes, took ad-