OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. the appellation of philosopher, liberty and the consul­ship were founded at Rome by the elder Brutus. Therevolutions of the consular office, which may be viewedin the successive lights of a substance, a shadow, anda name, have been occasionally mentioned in the pre­sent history. The first magistrates of the republichad been chosen by the people, to exercise, in thesenate, and in the camp, the powers of peace and war,which were afterward translated to the emperors. Butthe tradition of ancient dignity was long revered by theRomans and barbarians. A gothic historian applaudsthe consulship of Theodoric as the height of all temporalglory and greatness ;s the king of Italy himself congratu-ilates those annual favourites of fortune, who, without thecares, enjoyed the splendour of the throne; and at theend of a thousand years, two consuls were created by thesovereigns of Rome and Constantinople, for the solepurpose of giving a date to the year, and a festival to thepeople. But the expenses of this festival, in which thewealthy and the vain aspired to surpass their predeces.-sors, insensibly arose to the enormous sum of 80,000/.the wisest senators declined a useless honour, which in­volved the certain ruin of their families; and to this re;-luctance I should impute the frequent chasms in the lastage of the consular Fasti. The predecessors of Justi­nian had assisted from the public treasures the dignity ofthe less opulent candidates; the avarice of that princepreferred the cheaper and more convenient method ofadvice and regulation.' Seven processions or spectacleswere the number to which his edict confined the horseand chariot races, the athletic sports, the music, and pan­tomimes of the theatre, and the hunting of wild beasts;and small pieces of silver were discreetly substituted tothe gold medals, which had always excited tumult and • Cassiodor. Variaram Epist. 6. 1. Jornandes, c. 57. p. 696. edit, Grot. Qnodsummum bonam primumque in muudo decus edicitur. 'Sve the regulations of Justinian, (Novell. 105.) dated at Constantinople, July 5,aud a'dressed to Strategius, treasurer of the empire. - ,