OCR Output Chap. 8. ROMAN HISTORY. 323 w CHAP. VIII. Censors created.. HETHER military tribunes only, during thisyear, or consuls chosen in their stead, had the manage­ment of public affairs, it is admitted by all, that in thenext, M. Geganius Macerinus, for the second, and T.Quinctius Capitolinus, for a fifth time, were consuls.Under these consuls, the office of censor was instituted:*which, though it seemed but of small importance at first,rose in time to so great a height, that the morals anddiscipline of the Romans fell under its cognizance: itwas charged with the superintendance of the senate andcenturies of the kmghts i in it was vested the right ofpromotion and degradation, the disposal of all places,public and private, and an absolute jurisdiction withrespect to the revenues of the republic. The following circumstance gave rise to this office.For many years, the people had never been rated, andthough the census couid be delayed no longer, by reasonof so many impending wars, it was out of the power ofthe consuls to overtake it. It was observed by the se­nate, that a matter which required so great attention, andat the same time, below the dignity of a consul, requireda peculiar officer, to whom the clerks ought to be ac­countable, who should have the conversation of the taxrolls, and should prescribe the mode of taking the census. However insignificant this office might have appearedat first, the fathers grasped at it with joy, as it had atendency to increase the number of offices occupied bytheir order, with a view as I imagine, and a< it reallyhappened, that the influence and power of those whofilled it, would soon procure authority and respect to theoffice itself. The tribunes viewed4t rather in a neces­sary, than an honourable light, of which, at that time,it had no other appearance; and for that Teason madeno objection, that they might not seem to make opposi- * A Censeo. This office, though at first it seemed contemp­tible, came at last to have so much power annexed to it, that theemperors took it upon themselves.