OCR Output xilus. 435 KILL'S. fa tin month of the river upon the plain ofDdU. (Diador. i. 38—»0.) This, however,tbc;fc partially true, will n»t account for the inun-i of Upper Aegypt, or for the periodical rising(tk men X. of Aethiopia, It was attributedbtWcmtnertioD of the Nile with the irn-.it South-0 (km, whose waters, from long exposure to thean, nm dffriTfd, it was thought, of their salineBjrsiisati is their coarse through the Kile-valley.fZWcr. i 40.) By Ephoros (ed. Marx, p. 23) itpsissritsa1frottexudation through the sands; whilebbwXi* PBggestcd that the verticil position of the■Be sister reduced the waters of Southern Libja1 %nV kwwt ebb. Bat this hypothesis kept out ofI afcit their ortrhW in summer. Agatharchides oft who wrote in the second century b. c, was theI teAmot the true cause of the inundation.. TheftwkicB fill hi May upon Aethiopia occasion theast 4 the men that Bow northward from it. As them from the equator to the tropic ofi successively vertical over points N. of. the air is heated and rsrified, and theI set in from the Mediterranean to restoreB^ttiLViom. They pass over the heated plainsf i but at soon as they reach the loftyt at Abyssinia, they descend in torrents ofSWsets of water tall impetuously from theiri sty* upon the grand tableau, from the■Ursa upon the plains which contain thei rf the White and Blue Rivers, and throughIs and confluents pass into the Kile. Ini of June, or at the beginning of July,( a risible in Aegypt: about the middle oft th* dykes are cat, and the flood drawn offI V. by innumerable canals; and between> Ml 30th of September the maximumtb attained. For a fortnight the flood re-about the 10th of November, itMy diminished, and continues to decreaseI it attains its minimum; at this timet Cairo b not more than 6 feet, and inwaters are nearly stagnant. In the^af Herodotus (ii. 13) the height of a good Nile\ ar 16 cubits; and around the statue of thei bruught from Aegypt and sett Temple of Peace, were grouped sixteenemblematic of these measures.9. s. 14.) The rise of the Kile wasion the Kilometers at Primis (Jbrim),1 llemphis; and the progress or de-i was reported by letters to diffe-, in order that the fanners mighti when sowing might commence.■ height of 30 feet is ruinous,—under-i sweeping away cattle, and destroyingf the fields. The land, also, is renderedr far um ^nmning teed-time; the labours of■ assayed; and epidemic diseases arise from; and stagnant waters. On the otherraters do not rise 24 feet, the harvestI if they are below 18, terrible faminest such bus that of which Diodorus1 which are not unknown in morey, Voyage en Syrie ei en Egypte,IbbM it ph's Hist of Egyjtt, p. 197,faring which the starving population to feed on human Egypt during the inundationof a wast inland lake, boundedBat the usual means of intercourse of the 1 or the crocodile 1 river are seldom under water, which Ifl dischargedthrough the frequent apertures of the dykes, at firstupon the verge of the desert, and afterwards uponthe land nearer the flood. The Delta, however, beingdevoid of hills, is,during an extraordinary ri.se, laid en­tirely under water, and the only means of communi­cation between the towns and villages are boats andrafts Herodotus (ii. 97) compares the appearanceof Lower Aegypt at this season to the Aegean sea,studded by the Sporades and Cyclades. As the direct highway between the Mediterra­nean and Mcroe, the Nile, in all periods, at leastduring the prosperous ages of Aegypt, presenteda busy and animated spectacle. The Aegypt ians,who shunned the sea as the element of the destroy­ing Typhon, regarded their river with a flection andreverence, as the gift and emblem of the creatingand preserving Osiris. Its broad and capaciousbosom was in all seasons of the year studded withriver-cratr, from the raft of reeds to the statelyBaris or Kile barges. Up the Nile to the marketsof Diospolis passed the grain and fruits of the Delta;and down the stream came the quarried limestone ofthe Thebaid to the quays of Sais and Canopus. .Nobridge spanned the river during its course of 1500miles; and the ferrying over from bank to bank wasan incessant cause of life and movement. Thefishers and fowlers of the Nile diversified the scene.Respecting the qualities of the fish there is con­siderable discrepancy among ancient writers — tomedescribing it as coarse or insipid, others as highlynutritive and delicate in its flavour. (Allien,vii. p. 312.) Fifty-two species of fish are said tobe found in the Nile. (Kussegger, Reisen, vol. i.p. 300.) Of these the genus Silurus was the mostabundant. Fish diet is well suited to the langnidappetites of a hot climate; and the Israelites, whenwandering in the desert, regretted the fsh as wellas the vegetables of Aegypt. (Artmioer*, xi. 5.)They were caught in greatest abundance in thepools and lakes during the season of inundation.In the marshy districts of the Delta, where grain,owing to the spongy and bibulous character of thosoil, could not be raised, the inhabitants lived prin­cipally upon fish dried in the sun ; and, in latertimes at least, they were salted, and exported ingreat quantities to the markets of Greece and Syria.The modes of catching them are represented inthe paintings, and were the line, the net, and thoprong. (See Abdallatiph, ap. RoseWni, M. C. vol. i.p. 230.) The great extent of marsh land in Aegypt,and the long continuance of the inundation, causedit beyond all other countries to abound in water­fowl. The fowlers are represented in the paintingsas spreading nets, or as rowing in their boats amongthe aquatic plants, in which the birds nestled,and knocking them down with sticks. The use ofdecoy-birds was not unknown; and smoked or saltedwild-fowl were an article of export. The ediblewater-fowl arc mostly of the goose and duck (mot)tribe; the quail also is mentioned by Herodotus (ii.77) as among the species that were dried in thosun and slightly salted for home consumption andexport. The Fauna of the Nile were the hippopotamusand the crocodile, with many lesser species of thesaurian genus. In the more remote ages bothwere found through the whole course of the river(Diodor. i. 35), although at present the hippopo­tamus rarely descends below the second Cataract,)dile below 27° N. Int. The chase of the ff 2