OCR Output 380 ROMAN EMPIRE. their religion, were indignantly hurled into the midst ofthe city. The event of some general and partial actionsreduced the Damascenes to a closer defence: but a mes­senger whom they dropped from the walls, returned withthe promise of speedy and powerful succour, and theirtumultuous joy conveyed the intelligence to the campof the Arabs. After some debate, it was resolved by thegenerals to raise, or rather to suspend, the siege of Da­mascus, till they had given battle to the "orces of the em­peror. In the retreat, Caled would have chosen themore perilous station of the rear-guard; he modestlyyielded to the wishes of Abu Obeidah. But in the hourof danger he flew to the rescue of his companion, whowas rudely pressed by a sally of six thousand horse andten thousand foot, and few among the Christians couldrelate at Damascus the circumstances of their defeat.The importance of the contest required the junction ofthe Saracens who were dispersed on the frontiers of Syriaand Palestine; and I shall transcribe one of the circularmandates which was addressed to Amrou the future con­queror of Egypt. In the name of the most merciful God:from Caled to Amrou, health and happiness. Know thatthy brethren the Moslems design to march to Aizna-din, where there is an army of seventy thousand Greeks,who propose to come against us, that they may extinguishthe light of God with their mouths; but God preservethhis light in spite of the infidels.k As soon, therefore,as this letter of mine shall be delivered to thy hands, comewith those that are with thee to Aiznadin, where thoushall find us, if it please the most high God. The sum­mons was cheerfully obeyed, and the forty-five thousandMoslems who met on the same day, on the same spot, as­cribed to the blessing of Providence the effects of theiractivity and zeal. k These words are a text of the Koran, c. 9. 32. 61.8. Like our fanatics of thelast century, the Moslems, on every familiar or important occasion, spoke thelanguage of their scriptures; a style more natural in their mouths, than the Hebrewidiom transplanted into the climate and dialect of Britain.