OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL had recommended them to the favour of Valerian, and graduallypromoted them to the most important commands of the empire.The generals who assumed the title of Augustus, were eitherrespected by their troops for their able conduct and severe discipline,er admired for valour and success in war, or beloved for franknessand generosity. The field of victory was often the scene of theirelection, and even the armourer Marius, the most contemptible ofall the candidates for the purple, was distinguished however byintrepid courage, matchless strength, and blunt honesty ,J9. Hismean and recent trade, cast indeed an air of ridicule on his eleva­tion; but his birth could not be more obscure than was that ofthe greater part of his rivals, who were born of peasants, andTheir obscure inlisted in the army, as private soldiers. In times of confusionevery active genius finds the place assigned him by Nature: in ageneral state of war, military merit is the road to glory and togreatness. Of rhe nineteen tyrants, Tetricus only was a senator;Piso alone was a noble. The blood of Numa, through twenty-eightsuccessive generations, ran in the veins of Calphurnius Piso ,6°, who,by female alliances, claimed a right of exhibiting in his house, theimages of Crassus and of the great Pompey ,6'. His ancestors hadbeen repeatedly dignified with all the honours which the common­wealth could bestow; and of all the ancient families of Rome, theCalphurnian alone had survived the tyranny of the Cæsars. Thepersonal qualities of Piso added new lustre to his race. Theusurper Valens, by whose order he was killed, confessed, with deepremorse, that even an enemy ought to have respected the sanctityof Piso; and although he died in arms against Gallienus, the senate,with the emperor's generous permission, decreed the triumphalornaments to the memory of so virtuous a rebel l6\The cause* The lieutenants of Valerian were grateful to the father whombeilion!'" they esteemed. They disdained to serve the luxurious indolence ofhis unworthy son. The throne of the Roman world was unsup­ported