OCR Output riCTAVI. 629 PIERES. jtt (Mutao), on opposite sides of the valley ofHuwr (I'hiaili); Seftemteda (S. Severitto),a the uffa vulley of the J'oiema; Tueia, on the,Vt lasJt ef the tame stream, near the modern towni Tnja; ui Ujcixa, en its right hank, not fur:rat Hacmla. The site of PAU8ULAK(Pausulani,I in.) i> fael by Holstenius at Monte delT Olmo,uj thu of PollenTla (Pollentini, Id.) ut MonteHfimi, all in the same neighbourhood; but these»! kle&lificatnu are merely conjectural. IVrntim itu traversed by a line of highroad,■ J.ii Uknred the line of the coast from Ancona toiinim, where it united with the Via Valeria;■a* iti more direct communications with Rome were»v»ml hi the Via Salaria, which crossed the Apen-ua dirst from Iuterocrea by Falacrinum to Ascu-ha, ud thence to the Adriatic Further to thearth, the, a branch of the Via Flaminia, quittingu* nns hue of that great road at Nuceria, crossed0* oscnl ridge of the Apennines by Prolaqueam toSpjiraifedt in the valley of the Potentia, and thenceTxnki by Treia and Auximum to Ancona. Be­ads theat more importaiit lines of road, the Tabula*4ictft (vo eras lines: the one leading from Auxi-.] isj by Kicina and L'rbs Salvia to Asculum; the<hs- torn Asculum to Firmum, and its port Cas-'r^xa Hrmanutn. The extremely hilly and broken'Lxir.a tA the country renders the determination of•snow along these lines of road very uncertain;iii tk? whine district is given in the Tabula in so"eiavd a manner that little reliance can be placedm 'a soiAoriiy. [E. U. B.] NCTAVI.* [Pictoses.]flCTL Tlie names of the Picti and Scoti ap-*r«ly in late writere, by whom they are spoken'u two allied pei-file. Tho Picts seem to have<-s Jmtical wi:h the ancient Caledonians ('Caldo-tio-WMi^wePictormn, silvae etpalndes," Enmen.fba.n. "X and dwelt K. of the Firth of Forth[Ida, B. KocL i. 1). Ammianus Marcellinus re-•wreu (he Krti as divided, in the time of the■P*w Constant, into two tribes, the Dicalidonaea» Ver4&rione>, and as committing fearful ravages'cvtioa with the Attacotti and Scotti (xxvji.>|4) Their ethnological relations have been*■-■.» <£wnased [Buitamjucae Lnsilak, \Tol. I.The name of Picti, or painted, is com-*appu«d to be derived from their custom of'J>rir bodies, and would thus be only a trans-fc> lie British word Brith, signifying anythingl ^,»aj which,according to Camden(Gen. Deter.'':>'!. X U tbe root of the name Briton. Such1 r <~*±f.j favours the notion that the Picts werei . race; bat on this point nothing put on be affirmed. (Comp. Amm. Man-, xx. I,*■*: Bed*, A EecL iii. 4, v. 21.) [T.H.D.]ITCTOSES (nfirrwej), and, at a later period,Hivi. were a Gallic nation, south of the LoireI » the coast of the Atlantic. Ptolemy (ii. 7.I) funs them in Celtogalatia Aquitania, andPant two of their towns, Limonum or lemonumHan) and Ratiatum. ** They occupy," be says,Is er»t northern parts of Aquitania, those on thef (Uctr), and on the sea." Strabo (iv. pp. 190,H i ukes the Loir* the boundary between the■»*••» wi !he Pictones. South of the Pictavi hebw» li- Sutam, who extend to the Garonne.Ik CwtM an mentioned by Caesar. He gotIt fr» then (or hia war against the Venetil': i II). The Pictoiw-s joined Vercingetorixla., a, when be was racing all Gallia against Caesar. In B. c. 51 C. Caninius, a legatus of Caesar,marched into the country of the Pictones to relieveLemonum, which was besieged by Duninacus (B. G.viii. 26). [Lemonum.] Lucan (i. 436) says that the Pictones wero"immunes," or paid no taxes to the Romans:— "Pictones immunes subigunt sua rura." His authority is not worth much; and besides that,this verse and the four verses which follow aroprobably spurious. (Notes in Oudendorp's edition ofLucan.) The territory of the Pictones was bounded on theeast by the Turones and Bituriges Cubi. It cor­responded to the diocese of I'oitiert. [G. L.] PICTO'iNIUM PROMONTO'RIUM, as it is nowgenerally written, but in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 1) Pec-tonium (n^K-roWr ixpoy), is placed by him on thecoast of Gallia Aquitania, between the mouth of theriver which he names Canentelus [Carantonls]and the port Secor or Sicor. It is impossible to de­termine what point of land is Pectonium. D'Anrillesupposes it to be L'Aiguilhm near the mouth of theSevre Niortaise,; and Gossellin takes it to be LaPomte de Boigvinet. [G. L.] PIDA (niSa), a town in Pontus Galaticus, onthe road leading from Amasia to Keocaesareia.(Ptol. v. 6. §9; Tab. I'cut., where it is calledPidae.) [L. S.] PIENGI'TAE (niery?™. Ptol. Ui. 5. § 20),a people in European Sarmatia, supposed by Schafa-rik to be the inhabitants of the river /Vena, whichfalls into the Pripjat near Pinsk (Slaicuche Alter-thumer, vol. i. p. 207.) Pl'ERA. [ClERlUM.] PI'ERES (Ilifpts), a Thracian people, ocenpyingthe narrow strip of plain land, or low hilt, betweenthe mouths of the Peneius and tho Haliacmon, atthe foot of the great woody steeps of Olympus.(Thuc. ii. 99; Strab. TU. p. 331, Fr. 22, ix. p. 410;Lit. xliv. 9.) This district, which, under the nameof Piebia or Pieris (riieplo, riieois), is men­tioned in the Homeric poems (IL xiv. 225), was, ac­cording to legend, the birthplace of the Muses(Hesicid. Theoij. 53) and of Orpheus, the father ofsong. (Apoll. Argon, i. 23.) When this worshipwas introduced into Boeotia. the names of the moun­tains, grots, and springs with which this poetinreligion was connected, were transferred from the N.to the S. Afterwards the Piereswere expelled fromtheir original seats, and driven to the N. beyond thoStrymon and Mount Pangaeus, where they formed anew settlement. (Herod, vii. 112; Thuc. L c.) Theboundaries which historians and geographers give tothis province vary. In the systematic geography nfPtolemy (iii. 13. § 15) the name is given to theextent of coast between the mouths of the Ludiasand the Haliacmon. Pieria was bounded on the \\.from the contiguous district of the Thessalian Per-rhaebia by the great chain of Olympus. An oflshoUfrom Olympus advances along the Pierian plain, in aN \V. direction, as far as the ravine of the Haliacmon,where the mountains are sejiaratcd by that chasm inthe great eastern ridge of Northern Greece fromthe portion of it anciently called Bcnnius. Thohighest summit of the Pierian ringc called PikrusMons (Plin. iv. 15; comp. Pausan. ix. 29. §3;x. 13. § 5) rises about 8 miles to the N. of Via-kholivailho, and is a conspicuous object in all theI country to the E. It would seem that there was acity called Pikkia (flifpfo: Eth. ni«j>i6ri|fr-"