OCR Output aN. 4456.] 15 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he settled his abode: where he also hadchildren. However, he did not accept of hispunishment in order to amendment, but to in­crease his wickedness; for he only aimed toprocure every thing that was for his ownbodily pleasure, though it obliged him to beinjurious to his neighbours. He augmented hishousehold substance with much wealth by ra­pine and violence; he excited his acquaint­ance to procure pleasure and spoils by rob­bery; and became a great leader of men intowicked courses. He also introduced a changein that way of simplicity wherein men livedbefore, and was the author of measures andweights. And whereas they lived innocentlyand generously while they knew nothing ofsuch arts, he changed the world into cunningand craftiness. He first of all set boundariesabout lands; he built a city, and fortified itwith walls; and he compelled his family tocome together to it: and called that cityEnoch, after the name of his eldest* son. NowJared was the son of Enoch, whose son wasMalaliel, whose son was Mathusela, whose sonwas Lamech, who had seventy-seven childrenby two wives, Silla and Ada. Of those chil­dren by Ada, one was Jubal: he erected tents,and loved the life of a shepherd. But Jubal,who was born of the same mother with him,exercised himself in music,f and invented thepsaltery and the harp. Tubal, one of hischildren by the other wife, exceeded all menin strength, and was very expert and famousin martial performances; he procured whattended to the pleasures of the body by thatmethod, and first invented the art of makingbrass; Lamech also was the father of a daugh­ter whose name was Naamah. And becausehe was so skilful in matters of divine revela­tion, that he knew he was to be punished forCain's murder of his brother, he made thatknown to his wives. Nay, even while Adam * Gen. iv. 17. t From this Jubal not improbably came Jobel, thetrumpet of Jobel, or Jubilee: that large and loud musicalinstrument used in proclaiming the liberty at the Year ofJubilee. J The number of Adam's children, as says the old tra­dition, was thirty-three sons, and twenty-three daughters. II What is here said of Seth and his posterity, that theywere very good and virtuous, and at the same time veryhappy, without any considerable misfortunes for seven ge­nerations, is exactly agreeable to the state of the world,and the conduct of Providence in all the first ages. § Of Josephus's mistake here, when h* took Seth theTOL. I.—No. 2. was alive, the posterity of Cain became ex­ceeding wicked; every one successively dy­ing one after another more wicked than theformer. They were intolerable in war, andvehement in robberies, and if any one wereslow to murder people, yet was he bold inhis profligate behaviour in acting unjustlyand doing injuries for gain. Now Adam, who was the first man, andmade out of the earth (for our discourse mustnow be about him,) after Abel was slain, andCain fled away on account of his murder, wassolicitous for posterity, and had a vehementdesire for children, he being two hundred andthirty years old, after which time he livecL^other seven hundred, and then died. He haer^indeed,J many other children, but Seth inparticular. As for the rest it would be tediousto name them: I will therefore only endea­vour to give an account of those that pro­ceeded from Seth. Now this Seth, when hewas brought up, and came to those years inwhich he could discern what was good, be­came a virtuous man; and as he was himselfof an excellent character, so did he leave ||children behind him who imitated his virtues.All these proved to be of good dispositions;they also inhabited the same country withoutdissensions, and in happy condition, withoutany misfortunes falling upon them, till theydied. They also were the inventors of thatpeculiar sort of wisdom which is concernedwith the heavenly bodies, and their order.And that their inventions might not be lostbefore they were sufficiently known, uponAdam's prediction that the world was to be .destroyed at one time by the force of fire, fand at another time by the violence andquantity of water, they made two pillars :§the one of brick, the other of stone; they in­scribed their discoveries on them both, that incase the pillar of brick should be destroyed son of Adam, for Seth or Sesostris King of Egypt, theerector of these pillars, in the land of Siriad, see Essay orithe Old Testament, Appendix, page 159—160. Althoughthe main of this relation might be true, and Adam mightforetel a conflagration and a deluge, which all antiquity wit­nesses to be an ancient tradition; and, Seth's posteritymight engrave their inventions in astronomy on two suchpillars; yet it is no way credible that they could survivethe deluge, which buried all such pillars and edifices farunder ground, in the sediment of its waters; especiallysince the like pillars of the Egyptian Seth or Sesostris wereextant, after the flood, in the land of Siriad, and perhapsin the days of Josephua also. E }H~*