OCR Output an. 1532.] 95 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. also made with sleeves, and appeared like ashort coat; but in the void place of this gar­ment was inserted a piece of the bigness of aspan, embroidered with gold, and the othercolours of the ephod; it is called essen, orthe breast-plate, which in the Greek languagesignifies the oracle. This piece exactly filledup the void space in the ephod, and wasunited to it by golden rings at every corner;and a blue riband was made use of to tiethem together by those rings; and, that theintermediate space might not appear empty,they contrived to fill it up with stitches ofblue ribands. There were also two sardo-nyxes upon the ephod, at the shoulders, tofasten it in the nature of buttons, having eachend running to the sardonyxes of gold, thatthey might be buttoned by them. On thesewere engraven the names of the sons of Ja­cob, in Hebrew characters, six on each of thestones, on either side; and the elder sons'names were on the right shoulder: twelvestones also were upon the breast-plate, ofextraordinary size and beauty; and theywere ornaments not to be purchased by men,because of their immense value. These stoneshowever stood in three rows, by four in arow, being set in ouches of gold, and insertedin the breast-plate; so that they might notfall out . The first three stones were, a sar­donyx, a topaz, and an emerald; the secondrow contained a carbuncle, a jasper, and asapphire; the first of the third row was aligure, then an amethyst, and the third anagate, being the ninth of the whole number;the first of the fourth row was a chrysolite,the next was an onyx, and then a beryl, whichwas the last of all. Now the names of allthose sons of Jacob were engraven in thesestones, whom we esteem the heads of ourtribes; each stone having the honour of aname, in the order according to which theywere born; and whereas the rings were tooweak for themselves, to bear the weight ofthe stones, they made two other rings of alarger size, at the edge of that part of thebreast-plate, which reached to the neck: andinserted it into the very texture of the breast­plate, to receive chains finely wrought, whichconnected them with golden bands to thetops of the shoulders, whose extremity turnedbackwards and went into the ring, on theprominent back part of the ephod. And thisvoL. i.—No. 8. was for the security of the breast-plate, thatit might not fall out of its place: there wasalso a girdle sewed to the breast-plate, whichwas of the aforementioned colours, inter­mixed with gold: which, when it had goneonce round, was tied again upon the seam,and hung down: there were likewise goldenloops, that admitted its fringes at each ex­tremity of the girdle, and included them en­tirely. The high-priest's mitre was the same as wedescribed before, and was wrought like thatof all the other priests: above which therewas another, with swaths of blue embroidered,and round it was a golden crown of threerows, one above another: out of which arosea cup of gold, resembling the herb whichwe call saccharus, but those Greeks that areskilful in botany call it hyoscyamus. Nowlest any one that has seen this herb, but hasnot been taught its name, and is unacquaintedwith its nature; or having known its name,knows not the herb when he sees it, I shallgive a description of it . This herb is oftenin tallness above three spans: its root is likethat of a turnip; but its leaves are like theleaves of mint: its branches send out a calyx,cleaving to the branch: and a coat encom­passes it, which it naturally puts off when itis changing, in order to produce its fruit: thiscalyx is ofthe bigness of the bone of the lit­tle finger, but in the compass of its apertureis like a cup. To render this more plain:suppose a sphere be divided into two parts,round at the bottom, but having another seg­ment, that grows up to a circumference fromthat bottom: suppose it to become narrowerby degrees; and that the cavity of that partgrow decently smaller, and then graduallygrow wider again at the brim; such as we seein the navel of a pomegranate, with its notches.And indeed such a coat grows over this plant,as renders it an hemisphere, and that, as onemay say, turned accurately in a lathe, andhaving its notches extant above it; which, asI said, grow like a pomegranate, only thatthey are sharp, and end in nothing but prick­les. Now the fruit is preserved by this coatof the calyx, which fruit is like the seed of theherb sideritis; it sends out a flower, that mayseem to resemble that of poppy. Of this wasa crown made, as far as from the hinder partofthe head, to each of the. temples: but thisBb