OCR Output 366 THE DECLINE AND FALL set fire to his ships; and as the expedition proved fortunate, hl«heroic conduct: was universally admired. The usurper had postedhimself near. London, to expect:' the formidable attack of Con-stantius, who commanded in person the fleet of Boulogne; butthe descent of a new enemy required his immediate presence in thewest. He performed that long march in so precipitate a manner,that he encountered the whole force of the przefect with a smallbody of harassed and disheartened troops. The engagement was.soon terminated by the total defeat and death of Allectus; a singlebattle, as it has often happened, deckled the fate of this greatisland; and when Gonstantius landed on the shores of Kent, hefound them covered with obedient subjects. Their acclamationswere loud and unanimous; and the virtues, of the conqueror mayinduce us to believe, that they sincerely rejoiced in a revolution,which, after a separation of ten years, restored Britain to the bodyof the Roman empireDesenceof Britain had none but domestic enemies to dread; and as Ions: as the iron tiers. 0 the governors preserved their fidelity, and the troops their disci­pline, the incursions of the Scots or Irish could never materiallyaffect the safety of the province. The peace of the continent, andthe defence of the great rivers which bounded the empire, were ob­jects of far greater difficulty and importance. The policy of Dio­cletian, which inspired the councils of his associates, provided forthe public tranquillity, by encouraging a spirit of dissension amongthe barbarians, and by strengthening the fortifications of theFortifications. Roman limit. In the East he fixed a line of camps from Egypt tothe Persian dominions, and, for every camp, he instituted anadequate number of stationary troops, commanded by their respec­tive officers, and supplied with every kind of arms, from the newarsenals which he had formed at Antioch, Emesa, and DamascusNor was the precaution of the emperor less watchful against thewell-known valour of the barbarians of Europe. From the mouth of