OCR Output SPARTARIGS CAMPUS. SPEOS AKTEMIDOS. 1031 ■mpticfl of Heptagoniae; but it is more probable;o2 the Heptagoniae lay further west in the direc-i t. of MUtrd, as it was evidently the object of-LTiainus to attack the city in different quarters.The small stream which encloses Sparta on the■«lfc, mm called the Trypiotiko or river of Magula, • pmhabry the ancient Tiasa (Tiao-a), upon whichtad the sanctuary of Phaena and Cleta, andr-r>« which was the road to Amyclae. (Paus. iii.K § 6.) Leake, however, gives the name of Tiasa» the Pamleleimona, the next torrent southwardsiKac into the Eurotas. Juth respect to the gates of Sparta, the most im-"rtazt was the one opposite the bridge of the Eu-*m: it was probably called the gate to Tberapne.rrr mentions two others, one lending to the Mes-rjin town of Pharae, and the other to Mount Bar-*irmea (xxxv. 30). The former must have beenxn the western side of the city, near the village oftaenia. Of the southern gates the most im-rait was the one leading to Amyclae. h this article it has not been attempted to giveif account of the political history of Sparta, whichras a prominent part of Grecian history, androut be narrated in this work at sufficient length *e of any value to the student. A few remarks*n the subject axe given under Lacojiia. The modern authority chiefly followed in draw-r up the preceding account of the topographyspert* is Cartius, Fefopome$o$t Tot ii. p. 219,Valuable information has also been deriveda Leake, MoretL, vol. i. p. 150, seq., Pelopvnne-m p. 129. seq. See also Mure, Tour in Greece,1 tL p, 220, seq.; Rosa, Wandentngen in Grie-jbti, vol iL p. 11, seq.; Expetiition identifique ifovVe, toL ii- p. 61, seq.; Boblaye, Recherches, . p. 76, seq.; Beule*, E'tudt* sttr It Peloponese,49. seq. SPARTAHIUS CAMPUS (Xwaprdptov motor,rab. iii. p. 160), a district near Carthago Nova in*jwua Tarraconensis, 100 miles long and 30 broad,rb produced the peculiar kind of grass called •fum, used for making ropes, mats, Ac. (PHo. . * ) It is the stijxi tenacissima of Linnaeus;i the Spaniards, by whom it is called esparto, stillture it fur the same purposes as those de- *rd by Pliny. It is a thin wiry rush, which is: 11 dried like hay, and then soaked in waterL patted. It is very strong and lasting, and the i'arttrre still employs a large number of womeni • hildren. It was no doubt the material of which ll**rian whips mentioned by Horace (Epixl. ir. 3)■* composed. (See Ford, ffandb. of Spain, p. • ) From this district Carthago Nova itself ob-*d the surname of" Spartaria," [T. H. 1).]^PARTOXUS (2jrdVrwAoi, Thuc. ii. 79, v. 18;-/j. B.)f a town of the Chalcidic peninsula,a-j great distance from Olynthus (Isaeus, dewyen. Hatred, p. 55), under the walls of which Athenian forces were routed, B. c. 249. It. ved to the Bottiaeans, and was perhaps theirrul, and was of sufficient importance to be men-M in tbe treaty between Sparta and Athens inirnth year of the Peloponnesian War. [E.B.J.](PACTA (3woi>ra), a lake in Media Atropatene,ch is intensely salt, so as to cause the itch on theirs of persona who have unwittingly bathed in it,Ii injury also to their clothes (Strab. xi. p. 523).present name is the Sea of Urumiah. Its earliestamian name is said to have been Kaputan, orpufttfl Chow% whence the Greek fonn would seem to have been modified. (L. Ingigi, Archaeoh Ar~men. i. p. 160; St. Martin, Mcnurires, i. p, 59.) It isprobably the same as the MopriofT/ Auu tj of Ptolemy(vi. 2. § 17). Many travellers have visited it inmodern times, (Tavernier, i. ch. 4; Morier, Sec.Voy. ii. p. 179.) [V.] SPELAEUM, a place in Macedonia which lorysays was near Pella (xlv. 33). SPELUNCA (Spcrfonf/a), a place on the coast ofLatium (in the more extended sense of that name),situated between Tarracina and Caieta. The em­peror Tiberias had a villa there, which deri%'ed itsname from a natural cave or grotto, in which theemperor used to dine, and where he on one occasionvery nearly lost his life, by the falling in of the roofof the cavern (Tac. Arm. iv. 59; Suet. Tib. 39)The villa is not again mentioned, but it would appearthat a village had grown up around it, as Plinymentions it in describing the coast ("locus, 8pe-luncae," Plin. iii. 5. s. 9), and its memory is stillpreserved by a village nanwd Sperlonga, on a rockypoint about 8 miles \V. of Gaita. Some Romanremains are still visible there, and the cave belongingto the I . ial villa may be identified by sonit*remains of architectural decoration still attache-1to it (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 73). [E. H. B.] SPEOS ARTE'MIDOS, the present grottoes ofBeni-hassan, was situated N. of Antinoe, in MiddleAegypt, on the eastern bank of the Nile, in lat. 27°40' N. The name is variously written: Peos in theItinerary of Antoninus (p. 167, Wtaaeung); Pois inthe Notitia Imperii; but Speos is probably the fern*fonn, implying an excavation (ffw«'uj) in the rocks,Speos Artemidos was rediscovered by the Frencliand Tuscan expedition into Aegypt early in thepresent century. It was constructed by some ofthe Pharaohs of the 18th dynasty in a desert-valleyrunning into the chain of Arabian hills. The structureas a whole consists of a temple, and of between thirtyand forty catacombs. The temple is dedicated t<>Pasht, Bubastis, the Artemis of the Greeks. (Herodii. 58.) The catacombs appear to have served a*the general necropolis of the Hermopolite noma, Foralthough Hermopolis and its district lay on thewestern bank of the Nile, yet as the eastern hills «tthis spot approach very closely to the stream, whilethe western hills recede from it, it was more con­venient to ferry the dead over the river than totransport them across the sands. Some of thesecatacombs were appropriated to the mummies ofanimals, cats especially, which were worshipped bythe Hermopolitans. In the general cemetery two ofthese catacombs merit particular attention: (1)the tomb of Neoopth, a military chief in the reignof Sesortasen I. and of his wife Rotei; (2) that «■;Amenheme, of nearly the same age, and of verysimilar construction. The tomb of Neoopth, or, as it,is more usually denominated, of Rotei, has in frontan architrave excavated from the rock, and sup­ported by two columns, each 23 feet high, with six­teen fluted facelets. The columns have neither bas<-nor capital; but between the architrave and tin-head of the column a square abacus is inserted. Adenteled cornice runs over the architrave. Theeffect of the structure, although it is hardly de­tached from the rock, is light and graceful. Thechamber or crypt is 30 feet square, and its roof isdivided into three vaults by two architraves, each ofwhich was originally supported by a single column,now vanished. The walls are painted in com­partments of the most brilliant colours, and the 3 u 4