OCR Output w [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now Saul's watchman told the king, thatthe camp of the Philistines was in confusion.Then he enquired, whether any body weregone from the army? and when he heard thathis son, and his armour-bearer were absent,he bade the high-priest take the pontificalgarments and predict what success theyshould have. The high-priest said, theyshpuld get the victory, and prevail againsttheir enemies. So he went out after the Phi­listines, and set upon them, as they wereslaying one another. Those also came run­ning to him, who had fled before to dens andcaves; upon their hearing that Saul wasgaining a victory. When therefore the numberof the Hebrews that came to Saul amountedto about ten thousand; he pursued the enemy,who were scattered all over the country.But then he fell into an action, which was avery unhappy one, and liable to be very muchblamed. For whether out of ignorance, orwhether out of joy for a victory gained sostrangely, (for it frequently happens that per­sons so fortunate are not able to use theirreason consistently,) he was so desirous toavenge himself, and to exact a due punish­ment of the Philistines, that he denounced a*curse on the Hebrews, to this purport. "Ifany one put a stop to his slaughter of theenemy, and began eating, and left off theslaughter, or the pursuit before night cameon, and obliged them so to do; he should beaccursed." Now after Saul had denouncedthis curse, since they were in a wood be­longing to the tribe of Ephraim, which wasthick and full of bees; Saul's son, who didnot hear his father denounce that curse, norhear of the approbation the multitude gave toit; brake off a piece of a honey-comb, and upon them; that the army of the Philistines, being madeup of different nations, might be in the greatest confusion,as either not understanding or else suspecting one ano­ther; and (what might complete their consternation) thatGod at this time might send a panic fear upon them, which,whenever he does it, even in the opinion of Heathensthemselves, is enough to make the stoutest tremble, andthe most heroic spirits betake themselves to flight. 'Ev yap <Sai/Aovioirfi <po?oij*6uyov7ai£ xoi iraiJes ©suv. Pind. Nemes. 9. B. ate part of it. But in the mean time, he wasinformed with what a curse his father hadforbidden them to taste any thing before sun-setting: so he left off eating, and said hisfather had not done well in this prohibition;because had they taken some food, they hadpursued the enemy with greater vigour andalacrity, and had both taken and slain manymore of their enemies, f When therefore they had slain many tenthousands of the Philistines, they beganspoiling their camp, but not till late in theevening. They also took a great deal of prey,and cattle, and killed them and ate them withtheir blood. The scribes therefore told theirsovereign that the multitude were sinningagainst God, as they sacrificed; and wereeating before the blood was well washedaway, and the flesh was made clean. Thendid Saul give order, that a great stone shouldbe rolled into the midst of them, and he madeproclamation that they should kill their sacri­fices upon it, and not feed upon the flesh withthe blood; for that was not acceptable toGod. And when all the people did as theking commanded, SaulJ erected an altar, andoffered burnt-offerings to God. This was thefirst altar that Saul built.|| So when Saul was desirous of leading hismen to the enemies' camp before it was day,in order to plunder it; and when the soldierswere not unwilling to follow him, but indeedshewed great readiness to do as he com­manded them; the king called Ahitub thehigh-priest, and enjoined him to know of Godwhether he would grant them permission togo against the camp, in order to destroy thosethat were in it. But the priest said, that Godwould not give any answer. Then said Saul, * This rash vow, or curse of Saul's, which Josephus*ays was confirmed by the people, and yet not executed,(I suppose principally because Jonathan did not know ofit,) is very remarkable; it being of the essence of theobligation of all laws, that they be sufficiently known and promulgated. Otherwise the conduct of Providence, asto the sacredness of solemn oaths and vows, in God's re­fusing to answer by Urim, till this breach of Saul's vowor curse was understood and set right, and God propitiatedby public prayer, is here very remarkable; as indeed it isevery where else in the Old Testament. See ScripturePolitics, p. 54—65. t t Sam. xiv. 29, 30. \ Here we have still more indications of Saul's affecta­tion of despotic power, and of his intrenching upon thepriesthood, and making and endeavouring to execute arash vow or curse without consulting Samuel or the San­hedrim. In this view it is also that I look upon this erec­tion of a new altar by Saul, and his offering of burnt-offer­ings himself upon it, and not as any proper instance of de­votion or religion. II 1 Sam. xiv. 35.