OCR Output AN. 41.] 525 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. youngest brother, and all their servants, andthe rest of the multitude that was with him;and without the enemies' privity pursued hisway to Idumea. Nor could any enemy of his,who then saw him in this case, be so hard­hearted, but would have commiserated hisfortune; while the women drew along theirinfant children, and left their own country,and their friends in prison, with tears in theireyes, and sad lamentations; and in expecta­tion of nothing but what was of a melancholynature. Herod, however, raised his mind above themiserable state he was in, and was of goodcourage in the midst of his misfortunes; and,as he passed along, bade them every one beof good cheer, and not to give themselves upto sorrow, because that would hinder themin their flight, which was now the only hopeof safety they had. Accordingly they triedto bear with patience the calamity they wereunder, as he exhorted them to do. Yet washe once almost going to kill himself, upon theoverthrow of a waggon, and the danger hismother was then in of being killed: and thison two accounts; because of his great con­cern for her, and because he was afraid lest,by this delay, the enemy should overtake himin the pursuit. But as he was drawing hissword, and going to kill himself therewith,those that were present restrained him, andtold him, that he ought not to desert them,and leave them a prey to their enemies; forthat it was not the part of a brave man to freehimself from the distresses he was in, and tooverlook his friends that were in the samedistresses also: so that he was compelled tolet that horrid attempt alone, partly out ofshame at what they said to him, and partlyout of regard to the great number of thosethat would not permit him to do what he in­tended. So he encouraged his mother, andtook all the care of her the time would allow,and proceeded with the utmost haste to thefortress of Massada. And though he hadmany skirmishes with such of the Parthiansas attacked and pursued him, he was con­queror in them all. Nor indeed was he free from the Jews allalong, as he was in his flight. For by thattime he was gotten sixty furlongs out of thecity, and was upon the road, they fell uponhim, and fought hand to hand with him: but he put them to flight, and overcame them:not like one that was in distress, and in ne­cessity, but like one that was excellently pre­pared for war, and had what he wanted ingreat plenty. And on this very place wherehe now overcame the Jews, he, some timeafterward, built a most excellent palace, anda city round about it, and called it Herodium.And when he was come to Idumea, at a placecalled Thressa, his brother Joseph met him:and he then held a council to take adviceabout his affairs, and what was fit to be donein his circumstances, since he had a greatmultitude that followed him, besides his mer­cenary soldiers, and the place Massada, whi­ther he proposed to retreat, was too small tocontain so great a multitude. So he sentaway the greater part of his company, beingabove nine thousand, and bade them go, someone way, and some another, and so savethemselves in Idumea, and gave them whatwould buy them provisions in their journey;but he took with him those that were leastencumbered, and were most intimate withhim, and came to the fortress, and placedthere his wives, and his followers, being abouteight hundred in number; there being in theplace a sufficient quantity of corn, and water,and other necessaries; and went directly forPetra, in Arabia. But when it was day, theParthians plundered all Jerusalem, and thepalace; and abstained from nothing but Hyr-canus's money, which was three hundredtalents. A great deal of Herod's money es­caped; and principally all he had been soprovident as to send to Idumea beforehand.Nor indeed did what was in the city sufficethe Parthians: but they went out into thecountry, and plundered it, and demolishedthe city Marissa. Thus was Antigonus brought back intoJudea by the king of the Parthians; and re­ceived Hyrcanus and Phasaelus for his pri­soners. But he was greatly cast down be­cause the women had escaped; whom hehad intended to have given the enemy; ashaving promised they should have them, withthe money, for their reward. But being afraidthat Hyrcanus, who was under the guard ofthe Parthians, might have his kingdom re­stored to him by the multitude, he cut offhis^ears; and thereby took care that the high-priesthood should never come to him any.4N2 •v.v, '^