OCR Output 454 NUMIDIA.NUMIDIA. <rat(rv\tot, Pulvb. iii. 33; Strab. ti. p. 131, xvii. pp.827. 8*9, 833; Dionrs. 187; Sail. Jug. 92; Plin. v.1; M:L-dpsyii, l.iv. xxviii. 17). occupying the countryto the W. as far as the river Mulucha. Nomad life,under all the differences of time and space, presentsone uniform type, the 4' armentarius Anr" of Virgil(Geory. iii. 344), and Sallust {Jvg. 18), who, asgovernor of Numidia, had opportunity for observation,!may be recognised in the modern Kabyte. Theselive in huta made of the brandies of trees and co­vered with clay, which resemble the *' niagalia " ofthe old N amid una, spread in little group* over thetide of the mountains, and store away their grain in |holes in the ground. Numidia, a nation of horsemen,■applied the Carthaginians with the wild cavalry,who. without saddle and bridle, scoured the country,as it bone and rider were one creature. Masinissa,who, till the age of ninety, could spring upon hishorse's back (Appiau, i'un. 107), represents the trueNumidian: faithless, merciless, unscrupulous, he is aman of barbaric race, acquiring the tastes and thepolish of civilisation w ithout any deeper reformation, iAgriculture and the arts of life were introduced underMasinissa, and still more by Micipsa. After the tallof Carthage, the Romans presented the Numidiankings with its library; but Punic influence mast havebeen very slight. Procopius (/_/. 1'. ii. 10), indeed,nays, of tiie inhabitants of both Maurctania andNumidia, that they used the Phoenician language inhis time; but it is extremely improbable that theyever ttaed Punic, nor can it be supposed that Prooo-piua p»ses>e»i the information reijuisite for ascer­taining the fact. They used a language amongthemselves, unintelligible to the Greeks ami Romans,who imagined it to be Punic, while there can belittle doubt that it was the idiom which they spokebefore the arrival of the Phoenician colonists, andwhich continued to be their vernacular dialect loni:after the Carthaginians and Romans hod ceased tobe known among ihein, even by name. Latin wouldbe the language of the cities, and must have beenvery generally intelligible, us the Christian teachersnever appear to have used or lo have thought ilnecessary to learn any other language. IF. Physical O'tayraiihy. Recent investigation has shown that the distinc­tion between what was called the 4i Greater and theLester Atlas" must he abandoned. There is oidyone Atlas, formerly called iu the native language*' Dyiis and this name is to be applied to thefoldings, or succession of crests, which iurm the di­vision between the water.-, flowing to the Mediter­ranean and those which How towards the Stdnralowland. The K. prolongation of the mow-covered\V. summits of the Atlas, has a direction or strikefrom K. to W. Numerous projections iiom thistham run out into the tea, and form abrupt pro-inontories: the first of these in a direction from E.to U ., was HiiM'l Prom, {"itnrov &Kpa, Ptol. iv. 3.§ 5: C. tie iianU, or liaj-el-I/amrah); then Sto-tlOBKCM (2T(fSof^W, Ptol. I.e.: C, de /Vr, A'djtIlndtd); Ki sicaha; Collofs Maokub; at TlUCSI'm til., or the cove at Stba A'fii, the Slnus Ni mi-DICUI {Novfit5iKos koAttos, Ptol. iv. 3. § 3). intowhich the rivers Amjisaga, Audus, and Si:-ar dis­charged themselves, with the headland luil.GlLl{Dtchidscheli) and SALDAE (C. Curium, liowjU,Ibiischoj'ih)\ after passing lirsrcrKi M and C.Matyi or Jias Temmdfiiz, the- bold shores of theBay <>/A hjiers, to which the ancients gave no name. succeed. The chief rivers were the Tcsta, Onboundary between Numidia and the Iwman pro.vince, the RuBBJCATDS or Urns, and the A»mr,iThe S. boundaries, towards the widely extrudedlow region of the Sahara, are still but little kanSFrom the 'researches of MM. Kuurnel, hVww, anlCarette, it appears that the Sahara is (ompueiof several detached basins, and that the nnrchersaithe population of the fertile oases u much sratsrthan had been imagined. Of larger wilii animah,only gazelles, wild asses, and ostriches are to beastWith. The lion of the Numidian desert exirt* «lfiu imagination, as that animal naturally srihlspots where food and water can be found 1stcamel, the "ship of the desert,** was tiTunwm ■the ancient horsemen of Numidia; its diffi»wo na*be attributed to the period of the Ptolemies, *h»employed it for commercial operations in the nBrjof the Nile, w hence it spread through Cyrene totfctwhole of the NW. of Africa, where it was fintbrought into military use in the train of armie»»the times of the Caesars. The later intmdurtiai■this carrier of the desert, so important to tbtaVmadic life of nations, and the patriarchal rtijtdevelopment, belongs to the Mohammedan epebthe conquering Arabs. The maritime tract «fcountry displays nearly the same vegetable ftthe coasts of Andaluria and Valmcia. Tbe«oa|the orange-tree, the arborescent ricinus, the (jmaerops humilis, and the date-tree flourish «n Isides of the Mediterranean; and when the wansun of N. Africa produces different species, theygenerally belonging to the same families as theropean tribes. The marble of Numidia, *|jantico,'* golden yellow*, with reddish veins, wasmost highly priced at Rome for its colour. flHxxxv. 1, xxxvi. 8.) The pavement of theC^niriajat Rome consiMed of slabs of this beautiful 1rial. (Niebuhr, Led. on Arte. Gtog. vol. ii. p. III. History and Political Geograpkf.The Romans became acquainted with these tnajin the First Punic War, when they servedCarthaginian cavalry. After the greatRegulus, the Numidians threw off the yoke oftliage. (Polyb. i. 31; Died. Fragm, Vol. ixiivlThe wild array of their horsemen was the nwot tjinidable arm of Hannibal, and with the h*lf-ca4ttsftines at their head,carried destruction throurheeHcily. In tlie great struggle of the Second Posse tjthe Romans made use of these faithleas barharuas*|great success. The t-erviees of M . -the E. Numidians, were not unrewarded, aiend of the war, he obtained the dominions of Stfflhis rival, and prince of the W, tribes, theand a great part of the Carthaginian terriithat his kingdom extended from the MuluchaW., to tlie Cyrenaica on the E , ooxnplrounding the small strip allowed to Carthaf*c*iast. (Appian, Ptau 106). W'liendied he left lii> kinc:d"m to his three mbs,Micip>a, and Mastanahal. (Julusaa anddied; the latter left, no legitimate children,Jugurtha and Gaada, sons by a. ithus the vast dominions of Numidia feUhands of Micipsa, the Philhellenc Hasons, Adherbal and II. . ... with wbonciated Jugurtha in tlw throne. The lattar,a divided empire, murdered Hienip&sJ, andAdherbal to tly to Rome, where he appeaiadsenate against tho usurpation of his