OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. mi It it supported by any authority. The lowertrtrfit, both on the side of the forum and of thetatron, wait called Infima Nova Via. (Varro, v.il Miill.) Ovid describes it as touching the forum'(Jas Nor» Romano nunc Via juncta foro est,"at vi.M9); whence we must conclude that not'ib« open space itaelf, but also the groundmil it on which the temples and basUicae stood,ti iwladed under the appellation of forum. Au ifpan, however, to have led from the Nova • ti tie forum between the temples of Vesta and■tor, n is shown by remains of pavement disco­id tbwv; and this may have been the junction■■■M u> by Ovid, which from his words wouldMihitt been comparatively recent. The Luci'S>t\i most have lain behind the Nova Via, towardsi'ulioe, and indeed on the very slope of the ippeari from the following passages: " Ex­tra nx est a luco Vestae, qui a PaUtii radice in<en Vain it veins eat" (Cic. Die. i. 45); " M.<ir.a< it plebe nuntiavit tribunis, se in Nova Via,•act ucetlum est supra aedem Vestae vocemj >:leutio aodisse clahorem hnmana"(Liv. v.. Tie sacellnin here alluded to was that of > LniMos. (Cic L e. and ii. 32.) It is describedi'trro Gtll. xvi. 17) as "in infima Nova*; whence we must conclude that it was in the ?m the forum that Caedicius heard the voice.IC» eaJW .Voro, the road must have been of t-.ti.(nity, since Livy mentions that TarquiniusI in it (i. 47); and perhaps it received its > front it* newness in comparison with thei Va. <V» we proceed to describe the monuments on • r ma. we must observe that some writers,-[►rally the Italian school of topographers i F'ir'o Rum. p. 60, se<]., Indie. Top. p. 462),£ ill -w that the Velia consisted of that height !■«• between the Palatine, the Esquiline, and''■■m **le of the forum, but confine the ap-taa to the northern angle of the Palatine,'■ A is contended, like the Germalus, was inI :un*s considered as distinct from the re- -f tfie hill. Indeed it appears that Niebuhr«'ri>»>f the name of Velia to the ridge in • (BitL L p. 390, Eng. trans.), in which« wa» of coarse followed by Bunsen (Beschr.*I l One of the chief arguments adduced■ tt ia the account given of the bouse of- Publicola. Valerius is said to have begunit a boose on the same spot where Tnllusf Sad prt-rionr-ly dwelt (Cic. Rep. ii. 31); • residence of Tullus Hostilius again is re-Bo have been on the Velia, on the spot ■Tru occupied by the Aodis Deum Penatium. tf. Stmt. xii. 51, p. 363, Gerl.; " Tullusi. .n Velia. ubi postea Deum Penatium aedes«.* Sufcn. L M> Now Bunsen (lb. p. 85),bjE Beiker (de -Vurw, p. 43, Ilnndk. p.but! that the Aedes Deum Penatium here u. ra» that mentioned by Dionysius Halicar-eWL 68) as standing in the short cut whichr ii* forum U> the Carinae, in the districtTviAauir. The MSS. vary in the spelling\irr; \nt we think with Becker that the» nnW " Sub Velia," •« meant, as Cujacius -*.a>U the word: and Casanbon (ad Mon.) reada OMamu- But, whatever opinion ratcrtamrd en that point, the other part of:*h*> of I>Mjnvsius. namely, that the temple. the abort cot between the forum and the Carinae, sufficiently indicates the locality; and weare of opinion, with Becker, that Bunsen arrived ata very probable conclusion in identifying this templewith the present circular vestibule of the church of55. Cosma e Damiano. Yet, if we assume withthose writers that this was the only temple of thePenates on the Velia, and consequently the spot onwhich the house of Publicola stood, then we mustconfess that we see considerable force in the objectionof Carina, that such a situation does not correspondwith the descriptions given by Cicero, Livy, andother writers. All those descriptions convey theidea that Publicola's house stood on a somewhatconsiderable, though not very great, elevation. ThusDionysius characterises the spot as \6tput- ortpxti-utvov T7/f ayopas tyn\bv iirieiKtis Ktd wtpho/ioriKKt^dutvos (v. 19). And Cicero says of the house:"Quod in excelsiore loco coepisset aedificare " (AVp.ii. 31). A still more decisive passago is that ofLivy: " Aedificabat in summa Velia " (ii. 7). Forhow can that spot be called the top of the Velia,which was evidently at the bottom, and, accordingto Becker's own showing, in a district called tubVelia? His attempts to evade these difficulties arefeeble and unsatisfactory (tfe Maris, p. 45). Yetthey are not incapable of solution, without abandon­ing Niebuhr's theory respecting the Velia, which wehold to be the true one. There were in fact twotemples of the Penates on the Velia, namely, thatidentified by Bunsen with SS. Cosma e Damiano,and another " in Summa Velia," as Livy says; whichlatter occupied the site of the residence of TullusHostilius, and of the subsequent one of ValerinsPublicola. Thus Solinus: "Tullus Hostilius inVelia (habitavit), ubi postta Deum Penatimn aedesfacta est" (i. 22). We cannot determine the lengthof this postta; but it was most probably after thetime of Publicola, and perhaps a great deal later.But the other temple was certainly older, as it ismentioned in the sacred books of the Argives (ap.Varro, L.L. v. § 54: u In Velia apud aedem DeumPenatium"); and thus it is plain that there musthave been two temples. The one in the SummaVelia is the Sacellum I.arum mentioned by Tacitus,in describing the pomoerium of Romulus (.4r,n. xii.24): and this is another proof that there were twotemples; for it is impossible to imagine that thepomoerium could have extended so far to the N. asthe church of SS. Cosma e Damiano. The situa­tion of this sacellum would answer all the require­ments of the passages before cited. For there isstill a very considerable rise from the forum to thearch of Titus, near to which the sacellum musthave stood, which rise was of course much moremarked when the forum was in its original state,or some 20 feet below its present level. Indeed thenorthern angle of the Palatine, which Canina supposesto have been the Velia, does not present any greatdifference of height: and thus the objections whichhe justly urges against the aedes near the temple ofFaustina do not apply to one on tlw site that wehave indicated. Besides it ap]>ears to us an insn-perable objection to Canina's view that he admitsthe spot near the temple of Faustina to have beencalled Sub Velia, thongh it is separated by a con­siderable space, and by the intervening height, fromthe N. angle of the Palatine. The account of As-couius (ad Cic. Pis. 22) of a house of P. Valerius14 sub Velia, ubi nunc aedis Victoriae est," is tooconfused and imperfect to draw any satisfactoryconclusion from it. By all other authorities the 3 P 4