OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. This was the pollution which the Lacedaemonians requiredthem to drive away; with a face indeed of piety, as vindicat­ing the honour of the Gods; but knowing at the same timethat Pericles the son of Xantippus was tainted with it by theside of his mother; and thence concluding that if he could beremoved, the Athenians would more easily be brought to anaccommodation with them. They could not carry their hopesso far as actually to effect his banishment, but to raise againsthim the public odium, as if the war was partly owing to themisfortune they suffered in him. For, carrying with himthe greatest sway of any Athenian then alive, and presidingentirely in the administration, he was most steady in opposi­tion to the Lacedaemonians, dissuading the Athenians fromany concession, and exciting them to the war. The Athenians in return required the Lacedaemonians" to drive away the pollution contracted at Taenarus." Forthe Lacedaemonians some time ago, having caused their sup­plicant Helots to rise out of Neptune's temple at Taenarus,had led them aside, and slew them. And to this action theythemselves impute the great earthquake, which happened af­terwards at Sparta. They further required them " to drive away the pollutionof the Chalciaecan Pallas," the nature of which was this: When Pausanias the Lacedaemonian, upon his being firstrecalled by the Spartans from his command in Hellespont!and brought to his trial before them, was acquitted of thecharge of male-administration, but was no longer intrustedwith the public commission; fitting out an Hermionian tri­reme on his own private account, he arriveth in Hellespont,without any authority from the Lacedaemonians. He gaveout that he did it for the service of the Grecian war; but hisintention was to carry on his negotiations with the king,which, aspiring to the monarchy of Greece, he had begunbefore. He had formerly conferred an obligation upon theking, from which the whole of his project took its date.When, after the return from Cyprus, during his first appear­