OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL and the promised Messiah. Their obstinacy converted his friendship into impla-cable hatred, with which he pursued that unfortunate people to the last momentof his life; and in the double character of an apostle and a conqueror, his perse­cution was extended to both worlds.(l) The Kainoka dwelt at Medina under theprotection of the city: he seized the occasion of an accidental tumult, and sum­moned them to embrace his religion, or contend with him in battle. " Mas!" re­plied the trembling Jews, "we are ignorant of the use of arms, but we perseverein the faith and worship of our fathers; why wilt thou reduce us to the necessityof a just defence?" The unequal conflict was terminated in fifteen days; auditwas with extreme reluctance that Mahomet yielded to the importunity of his al­lies and consented to spare the lives of the captives. But their riches were con­fiscated, their arms became more effectual in the hands of the Mussulmans; anda wretched colony of seven hundred exiles was driven with their wives and chil­dren to implore a refuge on the confines of Syria. The Nadharites were moreguilty, since they conspired in a friendly interview to assassinate the prophet. Hebesieged their castle three miles from Medina, but their resolute defence obtainedan honourable capitulation; and the garrison, sounding their trumpets and beatingtheir drums, was permitted to depart with the honours of war. The Jews hadexcited and joined the war of the Koreish: no sooner had the nations retired fromthe ditch, than Mahomet, without laying aside his armour, marched on the sameday to extirpate the hostile race of the children of Koraidha. After a resistance oftwenty-five days, they surrendered at discretion. They trusted to the intercessionof their old allies, of Medina: they could not be ignorant that fanaticism obliteratesthe feelings of humanity. A venerable elder, to whose judgment they appealed,pronounced the sentence of their death: seven hundred Jews were dragged inchains to the market place of the city: they descended alive into the grave pre­pared for their execution and burial; and the apostle beheld with an inflexible eyethe slaughter of his helpless enemies. Their sheep and camels were inherited bythe Mussulmans: three hundred cuirasses, five hundred pikes, a thousand lances,composed the most useful portion of the spoil. Six days' journey to the north­east of Medina, the ancient and wealthy town of Chaibar was the seat of the Jew­ish power of Arabia; the territory, a fertile spot in the desert, was covered withplantations and cattle, and protected by eight castles, some of which were esteemedof impregnable strength. The forces of Mahomet consisted of two hundred horseand fourteen hundred foot: in the succession of eight regular and painful siegesthey were exposed to danger and fatigue, and hunger; and the most undauntedchiefs despaired of the event. The apostle revived their faith and courage by theexample of Ali, on whom he bestowed the surname of the Lion of God: perhapswe may believe that a Hebrew champion of gigantic size was cloven to the chestby his irresistible scimitar: but we cannot praise the modesty of romance, whichrepresents him as tearing from its hinges the gate of a fortress, and wielding theponderous buckler in his left hand.(2) After the reduction of the castles, the townof Chaibar submitted to the yoke. The chief of the tribe was tortured, in the pre­sence of Mahomet, to force a confession of his hidden treasure: the industry ofthe shepherds and husbandmen was rewarded with a precarious toleration: theywere permitted, so long as it should please the conqueror, to improve their patri­mony, in equal shares, for Ms emolument and their own. Under the reign ofOmar, the Jews of Chaibar were transplanted to Syria; and the caliph allegedthe injunction of his dying master, that one and the true religion should be pro­fessed in his native land of Arabia. (3) Five times each day the eyes of Mahomet were turned towards Mecca,(4) andhe was urged by the most sacred and powerful motives, to revisit, as a conqueror,the city and temple from whence he had been driven as an exile. The Caabawas present to his waking and sleeping fancy: an idle dream was translated into (1) The wars of Mahomet against the Jewish tribes, of Kainoka, the Nailhirites, Koraidha. and Chaibar, arerelated by Abulfeda (p. 61. 71. 77. 87, &c) and Gagnier. (torn. ii. 01—65. 107—112. 139—148. 268 294.1 (2) Abu Rafe, the servant of Mahomet, is said to affirm that he himself, and seven other men, afterward*tried, without success, to move the same gate from the ground. (Abulfeda, p. 90.) Abu Rafe was an eye­witness, but who will be witness for A bu Raf>- i (3) The banishment of the Jews is attested by Elmacin (Hist. Saracen, p. 9.) and the great Al Zaliari. (Gag-tiier, torn. II. p. 285.) Yet Neibuhr (Description de P Arable, p. 324.) believes that the Jewish religion, and Ka-reite sect, nre still professed by the tribe of Chaibar; and that in the plunder of the caravans, the disciples ofMoses are the confederates of those of Mahomet. (4) The successive steps of the reduction of Mecca are related by Ahulfeda, (p. 84—87. 97—100. 102—111.)and Gagmer, torn. n. p. 209-245.309-322. torn. iii. p. 1-58.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. s-io.) Abulpba-ragius. (Dynast, p. 103.) *