OCR Output CHAP. IS. ROMAN HISTORY. 131 were just about to scale the walls, when the town surren­dered. The Arunci, however, shared the same. fate as ifthe city had been taken by assault; for the principal ci­tizens were all beheaded, the rest sold for slaves, the cityraited, and estates exposed to sale. The consuls obtainedthe honour,of a triumph, rather in compliment to the se­verity of the revenge taken on the enemy, than the im­portance of the war they had finished. • , CHAP. XVIII. A Dictator created at Rome. 1.N the following year, Posthumus Cominius and T.Lartius, succeeded to the consulate. During the cele­bration of the games at Rome, as some of the Sabineyotuh were hurrying along with them some women ofthe town in a frolic, the mob rose upon them, and thescuffle that ensued had well nigh ended in a bloody bat­tle ; and-this circumstance, however inconsiderable in it­self, seemed to put the whole nation in a ferment. Addto this, the dread of a war with the Latins: certain intel­ligence they received, that thirty different nations hadentered into a confederacy against them, at the instiga­tion ofOctavius Marnilius. Whilst the city was under the greatest concern aboutthe event of such mighty preparations against them, thenomination of a dictator was proposed for the first time;but in what year it happened, and who were the con­suls that were suspected to be in Tarquin's interest, isextremely uncertain. Nor does history authorise us tosay, who was the first dictator. The most ancient histo­rians condescend upon Titus Lartius, as being the firstthat was raised to that high office; and on Spurius'Cas-sius, as his general of the horse. To men of consulardignity, by the law made for the election of a dictator,their choice was confmed. For which reason, I shouldrather imagine, that Lartius, who had been consul, was.appointed to an office superior to the consulate, ratherthan Manius Valerius, the son of Marcus, and grandsonof Volesus, who .as yet had never been invested with theconsular dignity. For had they pointed :particularly at