OCR Output 1046 SULGAS. sulmo. pinians (Pans. x. 17. § i»; Claudian. li. 67/</.518),and it seems to have become under that people oneof tlie most considerable cities of Sardinia, and oneut' the chief seats uf their power in the island. Itsname was first mentioned in history during the FirstPunic War, when the Carthaginian general, Hanni­bal, having been defeated in a sea-fight by C. Sulpi-cius, took refuge at Sulci, but was slain in a tumultby his own soldiers (Zoniir. viii. 12). No othermention of the name occurs in history till the CivilWar between Potnpey and Caesar, when the citizensof Sulci received in their port the fleet of Nasidius,the admiral of Pompey, and furnished him withsupplies; for which service they were severely pun­ished by Caesar, on hi.s return from Africa, u. o. 46,who imposed on the city a contribution of 100,000sesterces, besides heavily increasing its annual tri­bute of corn (Hirt, IS. A/r. 9S). Notwithstandingthis infliction, Sulci seems to have continued underthe Roman Empire to he one of the most flourishingtowns in the island. Strabo and Mela both mentionit as if it were the second city in Sardinia; and itsmunicipal rank is attested by inscriptions, as well asby Pliny. (Strab. v. p. 225;* Mel. ii. 7. § 19: Pfin.iii. 7. s. 13; PtoL iii. 3. § 3; Inter, sp be la Mar­mora, vol. ii. pp. 479, 482.) The itineraries give aline of road proceeding from Tibula direct to Sulci, asufficient proof of the importance of the latter place.(/tin. Ant. pp. 83, 84.) It was also one of the fourchief episcopal sees into which Sardinia was divided,and seems to have continued to be inhabited througha great part of the middle ages, but ceased to existbefore the 13th century. The remains of the ancientcity are distinctly seen a little to the N. of themodern village of A'. Antinco,on the island or peninsulaof the same name: and the works of art which havebeen found there hear testimony to its flourishingcondition under the Romans. (l>e la Marmora, vol.ii. p. 357; Smyth's Sardinia, p. 317.) The nameof Sulds is given at the present day to the wholedistrict of the mainland, immediately opposite toS. AntUico, which is one of the most fertile andbest cultivated tracts in the whole of Sardinia.The Sulcitaui of Ptolemy (iii. 3. § 6) are evi­dently the inhabitants of this district. The Itineraries mention a town or village of thename of Sulci on the B. coast of Sardinia, whichmust not be confounded with the more celebratedcity of the name. (/tin. Aid. p. 80.) It was pro­bably situated at Gira»oit near Torioii. (I)e laMarmora, p. 443.) [K. H. B.] SULGAS, river. [GALLIA, p. 954; Yindalu m.] SU'LIA, SULE'NA {XovKltt, 2,ou\i)va, Stmdiasm.§§ 324, 325), a promontory of Crete, 65 stadiafrom Uatala, where there was a harbour and goodwater, identified by Mr. Pashley (Trarels, vol. i.p. 304) with Udgkio O'iilcne, the chief j«ort 0fAmdri, on the S. coast of the island. [K. li. J.] SUMS, in Gallia! is placed in the Table on aroute from Dartoritum, which is Dariorigum [Da­riorigum] the capital of the Veneti, to Gesocribatethe western extremity of BntagHe. The distancefrom Dariorigum to Sulis is xx. By following thedirection of the rout* we come to the junction of asmall river named Svuel with the river of Blavet.The name and distance, as D'Anville supposes, in­dicate the position of Sulis. £<i. L.] SULLONIACAK, a town in Britannia Komana(/tin. Ant. p. 471), now Brovkky Hill hi Ilcvt-fordikirc. (Camden, p. 359.) [T. H. D.] SULMO (Sermoncia^ an ancient city of Latiutn, mentioned only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9)which were extinct in his lime, andnoticed by Virgil. (.4 en, x. 517.) It i> is iti pro­bability the MM place with tbe modern 5which stands on a hill between Nurha ud!looking over the Pontine Mandies, [E. H. R]SrLMO(2tf«\uiF: AM. SulmoDetas: >mmma city of the Peligni, situated in the vaiW 1Gino, in a spacious basin formed by thejeaolawthat river with several minor streams. Tbereisee |doubt that it was one of the principal (Bin «f 1Peligni, :w an independent tribe, but no atticeef iis found in history before the Roman ensnaasf.tradition ulhided to bv Ovid and Stliai Itaiewhich ascribed its foundation to Solyuws, s Ipian and one of the companions uf A*t<aA, isedenlly a mere etvmulogical fiction (Ow^/sati79; Sil. ItaL ix.' 70—76.) The 6m iStthno OOOUTS in the Second Punic War,territory was ravaged by Hannibal in rc. Slthwithout attacking the city itself. (Ut. xxri. IIIts name is not noticed during the S<-al *ar, Iwhich the Peligni took so prominent a part;cording to Floras, it suffered severely is tbe iquent civil war belweeu Sulla andbeen destroyed by the former as % \its attachment to his rival. (FW. iii. 11)expressions of that rhetorical writer are oot, hawto be construed literally, and it is more prabaafcSulmo was confiscated and its lands asafisStiJia to a body of hi.s soldiers. (Zun-.f<. w ip. 261.) At all events it is certain that Solsaia well-peopled and considerable town is a.c.4when it whs occupied by Domitioa witb a rwof seven cohorts; but the citizens, who wen filably affected to Caesar, opened their galea Ilieutenant M. Am on i us as soon as he appealsfore the place, (Cars. B.C. L 18; Cic el* Jviii. 4, 12 a.) Nothing more is knows!of Sulmo, which, however, appears to Icontinued to be a considerableOvid speaks of it as one of the three 1towns whose districts composed tbe ternary «f tPeligni (*• Peligni pars tertia runs " ^sasr.a. Ilfand tins is continued both by Pliny uA the IColoniaruin; yet it docs not seero to bare err ba large place, and Ovid himself desirt»<ei * • tsmall provincial town, (.4mor. iii. 15.) Frea lLiber Coloniarum we learn also that it bad ra colony, probably n the time of Autw*» (rwjiii. 12. s. 17; Lib. C«W pp. 229. 260); fPliny does not give it the title of s (scriptions, as well as the geographers a*aries, attest its continued existence as a itown throughout the Roman Effipire, (!&**•* J241; Ptol. iii. 1. §64; Tab. PevL; Oa./3856; Mommsen, Jttscr. R.X. pp. 4*7—1The modern city of Sulmona undoubtedlythe ancient site: it is a tolerably floeriaeiBf pa]and an episcopal see, having succeeded u> tsst inity after the fall of \ ah o. which bad iruins of Corfiniuni. (Konianelli, vol ia.156.) The chief celebrity of Sulmo is derirrihaving been the birthplace of Ovid, wfcsMalludes to it as such, and celebrates its siand the numerous streams at clear sad fwater in which its neighbourhood abosnaiadlike the whole district of the Pehgni, > 1tremely cold in winter, whence CHnd naoMal**Sill lis Italicus in imitation of him, cull it *