OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL form a just idea of his true character. Under the philosophic cloakof austerity, he stands accused of concealing most of the vices whichdegrade human nature". But his accusers are those venal writerswho adored the fortune of Severus, and trampled on the aflies of anunsuccessful rival. Virtue, or the appearances of virtue, recom­mended Albinus to the confidence and good opinion of Marcus; andhis preserving with the son the same interest which he bad acquiredwith the father, is a proof at least that he .was possessed of a veryflexible disposition. The favour of a tyrant does not always sup­pose a want of merit in the object of.it; he may, without in­tending it, reward a man of worth and ability, or he may find sucha man useful to his own service. It does not appear that Albinusserved the son of Marcus, either as the minister of his cruelties, oreven as the associate of his pleasures. He was employed in a dis­tant honourable command, when he received a -confidential letterfrom the emperor, acquainting him of the treasonable designs ofsome discontented generals, and authorizing him to declare himselfthe guardian and successor of the throne, by assuming the title andensigns of Cæsar ,8. The governor of Britain wisely declined thedangerous honour, which would have marked him for the jealousy,or involved him in the approaching ruin, of CommoduSi Hecourted power by nobler, or, at least, by more specious, arts. Oaa premature report of the death of the emperor, he assembled histroops; and in an eloquent discourse, deplored the inevitable mis­chiefs of despotism, described the happiness and glory.Which theirancestors had enjoyed under the consular ^government, and declaredhis firm resolution to reinstate the senate and people in their legalauthority. This popular harangue was answered by the loud accla­mations of the British legions, and received at Rome with a secretmurmur of applause. Safe in the'possession .ofihis little world, andin the command, of an army less distinguished indeed for disciplinethan for numbers and valour '% Albinus braved the menaces of Commodus,