OCR Output TENESTAE. 573 a! tV emt-tm In now advanced far beyond itsam. Eats,» that the city, even in the thirdr-:i7 immit least four miles from the Me-omonv. The principal produce of the neigh-Wrar laadi wit flu, and the lirram Pelosiacum(Ha m. 1. a i) ra> both abundant aDd of a«e» i* galny. It was, however, as a border-fim a the frontier, as the key of Aegypt asvorirf Srra tad the sea, and as a place of greatArA tbt Pelusnm was roost remarkable,fnr lu pcsiuoo h was directly exposed to attackIf o» iTiorn of Aegypt; several important battlesantxrkl inoerits walls, and it was often besiegedad 'tkn. The following are the most memorableWj a the history of Peiosinm: I SssaeSehb, king of Assyria, B. c. 720—715, in•Hap «f Setboe the Aethiopian (25th dynasty)SBrat fnm Palestine by the way of Libna andBfci 5pn Prittiutn, but retired without fight-f f-*j War* its walls (Isaiah, xxxi. 8 ; Herod. Ill; Stnb. xiH. p 604). His retreat was as-tfi u» faroor of Hepbaestos towards Sethos,'wet la the night, while the Assyrians slept,bat rf fidd-mice gnawed the bow-strings and•H-rtnue of the Assyrians, who fled, and manyto vert tliin in their flight by the Aegyptians.M*a an ia the temple of Hephaestos at Mcm-k> tnrd of this victory of the Aegyptians, viz.a» i Mom holding a moose in bis band. Thev wimW; rests on the fact that in the sym-aa Aerypt the moose implied destruction,■a HnpoO. Bierogfypk. I SO; Aelian, B. An. • TWJccoive battle which transferred the throne II fWaJu to Cambyses, king of the Mcdo-aaa. vat faogbt near Peiosinm in B. c. 525.Baa inmnd were strewed with the bones of the•Bast whn Hero-iotas visited Lower Aegypt;•» irilbtf the Aegyptians were distinguishableiBsat «f the Persians by their superior hard-iBvi coa&Toed by the mommies, nnd which■bwbb ascribes to the Aegyptians shavingBass fnan infancy, and to the Persians cover-Bas tf with folds of doth or linen. (Herod.\mr) As Cambyses advanced at once topn, Pwaaam probably sorrendered itself inl­aw; after the battle. (PoIyaCT.Sfrorao.vii.9.) ■ a. c 373. Pnamabazos, satrap of Phry-H rfcirmea, the commander of the Athenian t*. appeared before Peiosinm, but retired»B*Jntg it, Nectaneboa, king of Aegypt,laaad to its former defences by laying the■■rag ands under water, and blocking up the reaasDeis of the Nile by embankments,•v. 41; Kepos, Ipticr. c 5.)Nbars was attacked and taken by the Per- * o Jr)9. The city contained at the time a ■ "T SOU) Greek mercenaries under the com-Matron. At first, owing to the rashness tThaatt in the Persian service, the defend-•t the advantage. But the Aegyptian king~y venturing on a patched battle,**r* cut to pieces, and Pelusium sur­as Tbeban general Lactates on bonour-(Diodor. xri. 43.)B.C 333, Prlosiam opened its pates touw Great, who placed a carrison in itwtaumd at one of those officers entitled«f the King." (Arrian, Exp. Alrx.'iinL Own. iv. 33.)«.c 173, Antiuclius Epiphanes utterly defeated the troops of Ptolemy Philometorthe walls of Pelusium, which he took and retainedafter he had retired from the rest of Aegypt. ( Polyb.Legal. § 82; Hieronvm. in Daniel xi.) On the fallof the Syrian kingdom, however, if not earlier,Pelnsium had been restored to its rightful owners,since 7. In B. c. 55, it belonged to Aegypt, and MarcusAntonins, as general of the horse to the Roman pro­consul Gabinius, defeated the Aegyptian army, andmade himself master of the city. Ptolemy Auletes,in whose behalf the Romans invaded Aegypt at thistime, wished to put the Pelusians to the sword; buthis intention was thwarted by Antonins. (Plut.Anion, c- 3; Val. Max. ix. 1.) 8. In B.C. 31, immediately after his victory atActium, Augustas appeared before Pelusium, andwas admitted by its governor Scleucus within itswalls. Of the six military roads formed or adopted bythe Romans in Aegypt, the following arc mentionedin the Itinerarium of Antoninus as connected withPelusium: — 1. From Memphis to Pelusium. This road joinedthe great road from Pselcis in Nubia at Babylon,nearly opposite Memphis, and coincided with it asfar as Scenae Veteranorum. The two roads, vis.that from Pselcis to Scenae Veteranorum, whichturned off to the east at Hcliopnlis, and that fromMemphis to Pelusium, connected the latter city withthe capital of Lower Aegypt, Trajan's canal, andArsinoe, or Suez, on the Sinus Heniopolites. 2. From Acca to Alexandria, ran along the Me­diterranean sea from Raphia to Pelusium. Pelnsium suffered greatly from the Persian in­vasion of Aegypt in a. d. 501 (Eutychii, Amrnl),but it offered a protracted, though, in the end, anineffectual resistance to the arms of Amrou, the sonof Asi, in A. D. 618. As on former occasions, thesurrender of the key of the Delta, was nearlyequivalent to the subjugation of Aegypt itself. Theklialifs, however, neglected the harbours of theirnew conquest generally, and from this epoch Pelu­sium, which had been long on the decline, nowalmost disappears from history. Its ruins, whichhave no particular interest, are found at Tineh,near DnmieUa. (Champollion, VEgypte, vol. ii.p. 82; I)enon, DetcripL de lEyyptc, vol. i. p. 208,iii. p. 306.) [W. B. D.] COIN OF I'ELl'SIl'M. PEMF, (It. Ant. p. 156), probably the fame asthe Penapte (n<V*wrw) of Strphanus B. (t. r.), atown of Aegypt, in the Heptaiiutuis, 20 miles aboveMemphis, on the left bank of the Nile, now calledBembe. In the old editions of Pliny (v. 29. s. 35)we find a place called l'emma, belonging to theNomads dwelling on the borders of Aegypt andAethiopia; but Sillig, instead of "Cysten, Peinmain,Gadagalen." reads " Cysten. Macadacalen." PENEITS. 1. the chief river of Th<ssaly. [TnES.-AI.IA.] 2. The chief river of Elis. [Ems.]PENESTAE.inThessaly. SeeDict.nfAntiq. $.t.PENESTAE, a people of lllyricuni, who appear