OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. k217 illegal. Even for earlier injuries inflicted by the Populareson the aristocracy satisfaction was .now demanded, not with­out prospect of success, before the equestrian tribunals.Because Gaius Norbanus had eight years previously in con­cert with Saturninus driven the consular Quintus Caepiointo exile (P. 186) he was now (659) under his own law 95.accused of high treason, and the jurymen hesitated long—not whether the accused was guilty or innocent, butwhether his ally Saturninus or his enemy Caepio was tobe regarded as the more deserving of their hate—till at lastthey decided for acquittal. Even if people were not morefavourably disposed towards the government in itself thanbefore, yet, after having found themselves, although butfor a moment, on the verge of a real mob-rule, all menwho had anything to lose could not but look on the existinggovernment in a different light; it was notoriously wretchedand pernicious for the state, but the still more wretched andstill more pernicious government of the proletariate had con­ferred on it a relative value. The current now set so muchin that direction, that the multitude tore in pieces a tribuneof the people who had ventured to postpone the return ofQuintus Metellus, and that the democrats began to seektheir safety in league with murderers and poisoners—riddingthemselves, for example, of the hated Metellus by poison—oreven in league with the public enemy, several of them alreadytaking refuge at the court of king Mithradates who wassecretly preparing for war against Rome. External relationsalso assumed au aspect favourable for the government. TheRoman arms were employed but little in the period from theCimbrian to the Social war, but everywhere with honour.The only serious conflict was in Spain, where, during therecent years so trying for Rome (649 seq.), the Lusitanians 105.and Celtiberians had risen with unwonted vehemence againstthe Romans. In the years 656-661 the consul Titus Didius 98-93.in the northern and the consul Publius Crassus in thesouthern province not only re-established with valour andgood fortune the ascendancy of the Roman arms, but alsorazed the refractory towns and, where it seemed necessary,transplanted the population of the strong towns among themountains to the plains. We shall show in the sequel thatabout the same time the Roman government again directedits attention to the East which had been for a generationneglected, and displayed greater energy than had been heard