OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5/1 so fortunate as to. shed their blood in the cause of religion Theyinculcated with becoming diligence, that the fire of martyrdom sup­plied every defect and expiated every fin; that while the souls ofordinary Christians were obliged to pass through a flow and painfulpurification, the triumphant sufferers entered into .the immediatefruition of eternal bliss, where, in the society of the patriarchs, theapostles, and the prophets, they reigned with Christ, and acted ashis assessors in the universal judgment of mankind. The assuranceof a lasting reputation upon earth, a motive so congenial to the ta-nity of human nature, often served to animate the courage of themartyrs. The honours which Rome or Athens bestowed on thosecitizens who had fallen in the cause of theif country were cold and,unmeaning demonstrations of respect, when compared with theardent gratitude and devotion which the primitive church expressedtowards the victorious champions of the faith. The annual com­memoration of their virtues and sufferings was observed as a sacredceremony, and at length terminated in religious worship. Amongthe Christians who had publickly confessed their religious principles,those, who, (as it very frequently happened) had been dismissed fromthe tribunal or the prisons of the pagan magistrates, obtained suchhonours as were justly due to their imperfect martyrdom and theirgenerous resolution. The most pious females courted the permissionof imprinting kisses on the fetters which they had worn, and on thewounds which they had received. Their persons were esteemedholy, their decisions were admitted with deference, and they toooften abused, by their spiritual pride and licentious manners, thepre-eminence which their zeal and intrepidity had acquired 9o. Di­stinctions like these, whilst they display the exalted merit, betraythe inconsiderable number of those who suffered* and of those whodied for the profession of Christianity. The sober discretion of the present age will more readily censure A rdour of &ethan admire, but can more easily admire than imitate, the fervour ^irstCh^lstlan5•'J r of