OCR Output PICENUM. f,27 PICENUM. tit trmWJ occupied by the Galli Senones, whichm iftaiirds incorporated into the province oflubria. The latter district seems to hare been ata tint regarded as rather belonging to Picenam.Im I'oljbiui includes the "Gallicas Ager" ini'ncam; and Livy even describes the colony oftnum u founded " in Piceno." (Pol. ii. 21 jLn. tfL it.) Bat the boundaries of Picenum•i.t diimttlj established, as above stated, in thetat uf Aa^iutas. according to whose division it<i ;i:ated the fifth Region of Italy. (Plin. iii. 13.l IS, Smb. r. p. 240.) The district thus boundedf -a t tract of about 80 geographical miles (800itiiu, Strab. t. p. 241) in length, with an averagekndib of from 30 to 40 miles. The southern part■-' lie territory thus limited was inhabited by a'.-ji called tiie Pkaetctii, who appear to haveto some extent a different people from the Pi-aaa: new* Pliny gives to this district the name'! Eejis lYsetatiana; and Livy more than once•xoa tra Pnetutianus Ager, as if it were distinctirra lie I'irenas Ager. (Plin. L c; Liv. xxii. 9,nri 43.) The narrow strip between the riversVoaau and Matrinus, called the Ager Hadrian as,«n» to hive alao been regarded as in some degree< rjarKe district (Plin. /. c; Liv. xxii. 9); butt><4 'Jxte tract* were generally comprised by geo-Tipm at mere subdivisions of Picenum in the■wr oxjetjuve sense. Vbj Dttle is known of the hiatory of the Picentes;a: itoeni writers seem to have generally agreed inMiliar tbein a Sabine origin; tradition reportedBat they were a colony sent out from the parent» tot in consequence of a vow, or what was calledi u •pring; and that their name was derivedhe a Woodpecker (picus), the bird sacred to■a, abjeh was said to have guided the emigrantsI tanr «arch. (Strab. v. p. 240; Plin. iii. 13. > U; Feat. v. Piceno, p. 212.) Silius Italicus, on•> «!ar haul, derives it from the name of Picus,y UiSta divinity, whom he represents as theMoWof Asralnm'(SiL Ital.viii. 439—445); butfc; a b mostaoce only another form of the samef* * That writer represents the region as pre- pratticed by the Pelasgians; no mention of■» a 4>or»i in any other author, but Pliny speaksanaaoa and Liburnians as having had aet-■•ata ea this coast, especially in the Praetutianm - vhere Truentnm was said still to preserve*"» J a Libumian colony (Plin. ic); while the»*>:*ii of Xumana and Ancona, further to the• *» ascribed to the Siculi. (/4.) We have no«a i estimating the value of these statements;I ft Mems not improbable that in the last instanceB *w a confusion with the colony of Sicilian 'inch was established at a much later pc-i a Aacona [Ajicowa.] This settlement,■* an rounded about 380 B. C, by a budy ofpoaa exiles who had fled from the tyranny of■.'«• (Strab. v. p. 241), was the only Greek•if n this part of Italy; and its foundation is1 «rv fact transmitted to us concerning the his-T Pconiuu previous to the time when it was xii contact with the power of Rome. The■» appear to have stood aloof from the long pro-s*ti nctesta of the Romans witli their Somnitebut their proximity to the Gauls caused > IViias to goon their alliance; and a treaty*i>-»W bttceen the two nat ions in B. c. 299 seems baa faithfully ohnerved until after the Se-•» avl erased to be ibrrnulablc. (Liv. x. 10.) The Picentes reaped the advantages of this longpeace in the prosperity of their country, which be­came one of the most populous districts in Italy, sothat according to Pliny it contained a population of360,000 citizens at the time of the Roman conquest.(Plin. I. c) Nevertheless they Beem to have offeredbut little resistance to the Roman arms, and wen;reduced by the consuls Sempronius Sophus and Ap-pius Claudius in a single campaign, b. c. 268.(Flor. i. 19; Liv. EpiL xv; Oros. iv. 4; Eutrop. ii.16.) The causes which led to the war are unknown;but the fact that the Picentes and Sallentines wereat this time the only two nations of Italy that re­mained unsubdued is quite sufficient to explain it. From this time the Picentes lapsed into the or­dinary condition uf the subject allies of Rome; andthough their territory is repeatedly mentioned assuffering from the ravages of the Second Punic War(Pol. iii. 86; Liv. xxii. 9, xxvii. 43), the name ofthe people does not again occur in history till thegreat outbreak of the nations of Italy in the SocialWar, B.C. 90. In that memorable contest the Picentesbore a prominent part. It was at Asculum, whichseems to have been always regarded as their capital,that open hostilities first broke out; the massacre ofthe proconsul Q. Servilius and hU legate Fonteiusin that city having, as it were, given the signal ofthe general insurrection. (Appian, B. C. i. 88; Liv.Epil. Ixxii; Veil. Pat. ii. 15 ; Diod. xxxvii. 2.)The first attempt of Cn. Pompeius Strabo to reduceAsculum was repulsed with loss; and it was withdifficulty that that general could maintain his footingin Picenum while the other Roman armies were oc­cupied in hostilities with the Marsi, Peligni, andother nations nearer Rome. It was not till thesecond year of the war that, having obtained a de­cisive victory over the allies, he was enabled to re­sume the offensive. Even then the Picentine generalJudacilius maintained a long struggle against Pom­peius, which was at length terminated by the sur­render of Asculum, and this seems to have been fol­lowed by the submission of the rest of the Picentes,B. c. 89. (Appian, B. C. i. 47, 48; Liv. F.pit.lxxiv., lxxvi; Oros. v. 18; Flor. iii. 18.) There canbe no doubt that they were at this time admitted,like the rest of the Italian allies, to the Roman fran­chise. Picenum was occupied almost without oppositionby Caesar at the commencement of the Civil War,B.C. 49 (Caes. B. C. i. 11—15), the inhabitantshaving universally declared in his favour, and thuscompelled the officers of Pompey to withdraw fromAuximum and Asculum, which they bad occupiedwith strong garrisons. In the civil war betweenVitellius and Vespasian A. n. 69, it was occupied inlike manner without resistance by the forces of thelatter. (Tac Hut. iii. 42.) Picenum appears tohave continued to be a flourishing province of Italythroughout the period of the Roman Empire; andthough Pliny speaks of it as having much fallen offin population compared to earlier times (" quondamnberrimae inultitudinis," Plin. iii. 13. s. 18), it stillcontained a large number of towns, and many of thesepreserved their consideration down to a late period.It is probable that its proximity to Ravenna contri­buted to its prosperity during the latter ages of tlioEmpire, after that city had become the habitualresidence of the emperors of the West. Under Au­gustus. Picenum became the Fifth Region of Italy(Plin. /. c.y, but at a later period wo find it com­bined for administrative purposes with the district ss 2