OCR Output J32 ANTIQUITIES 01 THE JEWS. Book XIXf which had a stone, with the image of Caius engraven upon it,and which, in his zeal in speaking, and his earnestness in doingwhat he was about, as it was supposed, he had forgotten totake off himself. This sculpture was broken immediately.But, as it was now far in the night, Che:rea demanded of theconsuls the watch-word, who gave him this word, Liberty.These facts were the subjects of admiration to themselves, andalmost incredible ; for it was an hundred years * since the dermocracy had been laid aside, when this giving the watch-wordreturned to the consuls ; for, before the city was subject to ty­rants, they were the commanders of the soldiers. But, whenCherea had received \hat watch-word, he delivered it to thosewho were on the senate's side, which were four regiments, whoesteemed the government without emperors to be preferable totyranny. So these went away with their tribunes. Thepeople also now departed very joyful, full of hope and of conirage, as having recovered their former democracy, and were nalonger under an emperor ; and Cherea was in very great esteem,with them. 4. And now Cherea was very uneasy that Caius's daughtecand wife were still alive, and that all his family did not perishwith him, since whosoever was left of them must be left for theruin of the city and of the laws. Moreover, in order to finishthis matter with the utmost zeal, and in order to satisfy his ha.tred of Caius, he sent Julius Lupus, one of the tribunes, to killCaius's wife and daughter. They proposed this office to Lu­pus as to a kinsman of Clement, that he might be so far a par­taker of this murder of the tyrant, and might rejoice in the vir­tue of having assisted his fellow-citizens, and that he might ap­pear to have been a partaker with those that were first in theirdesigns against him. ' Yet did this action appear to some of theconspirators to be too cruel, as to this using such severity to awoman, because Caius did more indulge his own ill-nature', thanuse her advice in all that he did ; from which ill-nature it wasthat the city was in sp desperate a condition with the miseriesthat were brought on it, and the flower of the city was destroy­ed. But others accused her of giving her consent to thesethings ; nay, they ascribed all that Caius had done to her as thecause of it, and said, she had given a potion to Caius, which hadmade him obnoxious to her, and had tied him down to love herl>y such evil methods ; insomuch-that she, having rendered himdistracted, was become the author of all the mischiefs that had, befallen * Hence,we learn that, in tlie opinion of Sarurninus, the sovereign authority*of ihe consuls ant) senate had been taken iwuy justice years before ihe death ofCaius. A. 1X41.^ in the <>&th year- before the Christian aers, when thetriumvirate began under Cu sar, 'Pwi)j)cj-x»Bii'