OCR Output NOTES PRELIMINARY REMARKS. ThE historical writings of Tacitus, as we now have them, consist of frag­ments of two distinct yet not wholly disconnected works, " the Histories"and " the Annals." The former originally comprised fourteen Books, andembraced a period of twenty-eight years, from the second consulship of Gsibato the death of Domitian, of which only the first four Books and a small portionof the fifth remain, containing the history of only about one year. The latteiconsisted, when entire, of sixteen Books, and extended over the space of fifty-four years, from the death of Augustus to the close of the reign of Nero; butfour entire Books are lost, from the seventh to the tenth inclusive, and thefifth, eleventh and sixteenth are preserved only in part. The Histories hadfor their subject the civil wars of Galba, Otho and Vitellius, and the re-estab­lishment of the imperial power under the Flavian family (His. 1,1). Thesubject of the Annals was the gradual corruption of morals and manners, andthe consequent subversion, pari passu, of liberty and law under the Julianand Claudian families, till at length on the death of Nero the military gamedthe entire ascendency over the civil power, and the commander of the strong­est army seated himself on the throne in place of the undisputed hereditarysuccession of the Caesars (Ann. 1,1. 2). If the author's life had been spared,it was his purpose to have written the Life of Augustus, as a sort of introduc­tion to his Annals (Ann. 3,24), and the Biographies of Nerva and Trajan as asequel to the Histories (His. 1,1). But he did not live to execute either ofthese cherished plans. In the MSS. and early editions, the Annals and the Histories appear as onework, and the extant Books of both, counted in the same numerical series,bear the common inscription, sometimes of Annates or Histories or ActaDiurnalia, and sometimes only of the historian's name. They must havebeen so arranged and numbered, in some copies at least, as early as the age ofJerome (a. d. 331-420), for in his Commentary on Zachariah, 3,14, that Chris­tian Father refers to Cornelius Tacitus, as having written the Lives of theCresars from the death of Augustus to that of Domitian in thirty Books,*thus comprehending the two works in one, which covers the whole period oftime belonging to both. But Tertullian, who flourished in the latter part of * It is chiefly from this number of Jerome, that we are able to make out thenumber of Books comprised in the original Histories. The Annals are known tohave consisted of sixteen Books, which subtracted from thirty eave fourteen forthe Histories.