OCR Output 186 THE DECLINE AND FALL Asia, and that the imperial purple should be the reward of diligence and sA faint rumour of their undertaking was conveyed to the ears of Phocas, and thewife and mother of the young Heraclius were secured as hostages of his faith: butthe treacherous art of Crispus extenuated the distant peril, the. means of defencewere neglected or delayed, and the tyrant supinely slept till the African navy castanchor in the Hellespont. Their standard was joined at Abidus by the fugitivesand exiles who thirsted for revenge; the ships of Heraclius, whose lofty mastswere adorned with the holy symbols of religion,(l) steered their triumphant coursethrough the Propontis; and Phocas beheld from the windows of the palace, his ap­proaching and inevitable fate. The green faction was tempted by gifts and pro­mises, to oppose a feeble and fruitless resistance to the landing of the Africans;but the people, and even the guards, were determined by the well-timed defec­tion of Crispus; and the tyrant was seized by a private enemy, who boldly invadedthe solitude of the palace. Stripped of the diadem and purple, clothed in a vilehabit, and loaded with chains, he was transported in a small boat to the imperialgalley of Heraclius, who reproached him with the crimes of his abominable reign-" Wilt thou govern better}" were the last words of the despair of Phocas. Af­ter suffering each variety of insult and torture, his head was severed from hisbody, the mangled trunk was cast into the flames, and the same treatment was in­flicted on the statues of the vain usurper, and the seditious banner of the greenfaction. The voice of the clergy, the senate and the people, invited Heraclius toascend the throne which he had purified from guilt and ignominy, after somegraceful hesitation, he yielded to their entreaties. His coronation was accompa­nied by that of his wife Eudoxia; and their posterity, till the fourth generation,,continued to reign over the empire of the east. The voyage of Heraclius hadbeen easy and prosperous, the tedious march of Nicetas was not accomplished be­fore the decision of the contest: but he submitted without a murmur to the fortuneof his friend, and his laudable intentions were rewarded with an equestrian statue,and a daughter of the emperor. It was more difficult to trust the fidelity of Cris­pus, whose recent services were recompensed by the command of the Cappapo-cian army. His arrogance soon provoked, and seemed to excuse the ingratitudeof his new sovereign. In the presence of the senate, the son-in-law of Phocaswas condemned to embrace the monastic life; and the sentence was justified by theweighty observation of Heraclius, that the man who had betrayed his father, could:never be faithful to his friend. (2) Even after his death the public was afflicted by the crimes of Phocas, whicharmed with a pious cause the most formidable of her enemies. According to thefriendly and equal forms of the Byzantine and Persian courts, he announced hisexaltation to the throne; and his ambassador Lilius, who had presented him withthe heads of Maurice and his sons, was the best qualified to describe the circum­stances of the tragic scene.(3) However it might be varnished by fiction orsophistry, Chosroes turned with horror from the assassin, imprisoned the pre­tended envoy, disclaimed the usurper, and declared himself the avenger of hisfather and benefactor. The sentiments of grief and resentment which humanitywould feel, and honour would dictate, promoted, on this occasion, the interest ofthe Persian king; and his interest was powerfully magnified by the national andreligious prejudices of the magi and satraps. In a strain of artful adulation, whichassumed the language of freedom, they presumed to censure the excess of hisgratitude and friendship for the Greeks; a nation with whom it was dangerous toconclude either peace or alliance; whose superstition was devoid of truth and jus­tice, and who must be incapable of any virtue, since they could perpetrate themost atrocious of crimes, the impious murder of their sovereign. (4) For thecrime of an ambitious centurion, the nation which he oppressed was chastised withthe calamities of war; and the same calamities, at the end of twenty years, were (1) According to Theophanes «iS»tw and fi«/nrrip»c. Cedrenut adds an nxsipomiirrar eiismi too xupisa,winch Heraclius bore as a banner in the first Persian expedition. See George Pisid. Acroas 1. 140. The ma­nufacture seems to have flourished ; but Foggini, the Roman editor (p. 26.,) is at a loss to determine whetherthis picture was an original or a copy. r ?LS<^}PVJ^py of Ph°ca» and the elevation of Heraclius, in Chron. Paschal, p. 380—38S. Theophanes,P- 2,4.2~?S0- Nicephorus, jp. 3-7. Cedrenus, p. 404-407. Zonaraa, torn. ii. lib. xiv. p. 80-82. (4) Christians'nec pactum esse, nec fidemnec ftedns"" " 7quod7fufi™iMs^^^ nonoccidissent. Eutych. Annalii, torn. ii. p. 211. yen. Fococl.