OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 9 world, he laboured to reconcile the Gnostic with theEbionite, by confessing in the same Messiah the super­natural union of a man and a God: and this mysticdoctrine was adopted with many fanciful improvementsby Carpocrates, Basilides, and Valentine,1" the hereticsof the Egyptian school. In their eyes, JESUS of Nazarethwas a mere mortal, the legitimate son of Joseph andMary; but he was the best and wisest of the. humanrace, selected as the worthy instrument to restore uponearth the worship of the true and supreme Deity.When he was baptized in the Jordan, the CHRIST, thefirst of the aeons, the Son of God himself, descended onJesus in the form of a dove, to inhabit his mind, and di­rect his actions during the allotted period of his ministry.When the Messiah was delivered into the hands of theJews, the Christ, an immortal and impassible being, for­sook his earthly tabernacle, flew back to the pleroma orworld of spirits, and left the solitary Jesus to suffer, tocomplain, and to expire. But the justice and generosityof such a desertion are strongly questionable; and thefate of an innocent martyr, at first impelled, and at lengthabandoned by his divine companion, might provoke thepity and indignation of the profane. Their murmurswere variously silenced by the sectaries who espousedand modified the double system of Cerinthus. It wasalleged, that when Jesus was nailed to the cross, hewas endowed with a miraculous apathy of mind andbody, which rendered him insensible of his apparentsufferings. It was affirmed, that these momentary,though real pangs, would be abundantly repaid by thetemporal reign of a thousand years, reserved for theMessiah in his kingdom of the New Jerusalem. Itwas insinuated, that if he suffered, he deserved to suf­ v The Valentinians embraced a complex, and almost incoherent systern.—1.Both Christ and Jesus were aeons, though of different degrees; the one acting asthe rational soul, the other as the divine spirit of the Saviour. 2. At the time ofthe passion, they both retired, and left only a sensitive soul and a human body.3. Even that body was etherial and perhaps apparent.—Such are the laboriousconclusions of Mosheirn. But I much doubt whether the Latin translator under­stood Iren&us, and whether Irenaeus and the Valentinians understood themselves.