OCR Output 616 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. annals of one of the oldest and most remarkablepeople of antiquity; and, by a perver.se fate, t he in­ventors of letters have been deprived of that benefitwhich their discovery has bestowed on other, andoften less distinguished, nations which have bor­rowed it. The arithmetical system of the Phoenicians re­sembled that of the Egyptians. The units weremarked by simple strokes, whilst 10 was denotedeither by a horizontal line or by a semicircle; 20 bythe letter N; and 100 had also a special mark, withstrokes for the units denoting additional hundreds.(Gesen. Moti. Phoen. i. I. c. 6.) Their weights andmeasures were nearly the same as those of the Jews. The Phoenicians, and more particularly the Si-doniana, excelled in the glyptic and plastic arts.Their drinking vessels, of gold and silver, are fre­quently mentioned in Homer: as the silver vasewhich Achilles proposed as the reward of the victor inthe funeral games in honour of Patroclus (TZusdf, xxiii.743), and the bowl given to Telemachus by Mene-l.ius. (Od. iv. 61S; comp. Strab.xvi. p. 757.) ThePhoenicians probably also manufactured fictile andglass vases; but the origin of the vases called Phoe­nician, found in Sonthern Italy, rests on no certainauthority. They particularly excelled in works inbronze. Thus the pillars which they cast fur Solo­mon's temple were 18 cubits in height and 12 incircumference, with capitals 5 cubits high. Fromthe nature of their country their architecture musthave consisted more of wood than of stone ; but theymust have attained to great art in the preparationof the materials, since those designed for the templeof Solomon required no further labour, but only tobe put together, when they arrived at Jerusalem.The internal decorations were carvings in olive-wood,cedar, and gold. The Phoenicians do not appear tohave excelled in sculpture. This was probablyowing to the nature of their religion. Their idolswere not, like those of Greece and Home, elaboraterepresentations of the human form, but mere rude andshapeless stones called Baetuli; and frequently theirtemples were entirely empty. Figures of the Phoe­nician Venus, but of very rude sculpture, have, how­ever, been found in Cyprus. The Phoeniciansbrought to great perfection the art of carving andinlaying in ivory, and the manufacture of jewelleryand female ornaments, which proved of such irre­sistible attraction to the Grecian and Jewish women,as may be seen in the story of Kumaeus in Homer(Of/, xv. 415), and in the indignant denunciationsof Isaiah (in. 19). They likewise excelled in theart of engraving gems. (2 Chron. ii. 14.) Music-is said to have been an invention of the Sidonians(Sanchoniath. p. 32, ed. Orel!.), and a peculiar sortof cithara was called \vpo<potvt{. (Athen. iv. 183.) VIII. Manufactures, Commerce, and Navi­gation. The staple manufacture of Phoenicia was thecelebrated purple dye; but it was not a monopoly,Kzekiel (xxvii. 7) characterises the purple dye ascoming from Greece; and Egypt and Arabia alsomanufactured it, but of vegetable materials. Thepeculiarity uf the Phoenician article was that it wasobtained from fish of the genera buccinum andinurex, which were almost peculiar to the Phoeniciancoast, and which even there were found in perfectiononly on the rocky part between the Tynan Climaxand the promontory of Canned. The liquor is 00O- tamed in a little vein or canal which tttM u>spiral line of these molluscs, and yields lutiverrsmall drop. The fluid, which is extracted wili spointed instrument, is of a yellowish white, or tmcolour, and smells like garlic. If applied tocotton, or wool, and exposed to a strongit successively becomes green, blue, red, mlpurple; and when washed in soap andbright and permanent crimson is produced,buccinum, which is so named from itishape, is found on rocks near the t-hore, biEnures must be dredged in deep water. Thein its general form, resembles theis rougher and more spinous. The Helixalso found on the Phoenician coast, yield* ifluid. The superiority of the Tynan porpliowing to the abundance and quality of trie "'probably also to some chemical secret. Theaccounts of these fish will be found in(//. Anim. lib. v.) and Pliny (ix. 61. s. 62)pceially in a paper of Keaumur in the flfiI'Acadirnie des Sciences, 1711 j and of tiiefacture of the purple in Amati, fM Hesipitrarum, and lion Michaele Rosa, Itittaidelle Purport e delle Materie Veft tar if yramAAntichi. Tlic trade seems to have been coooseuTyre, though the poets speak of Sidotuan pop(Ovid, TV. iv. 2. 27.) Tyre, under the E«had the exclusive privilege of manufactoracimperial purple, and decrees were pmraalgaudhihiting its use by all except magistrates.Vopisc. Aurei. c.45; Suet. Aero, 32.) Thefixture seems to have flourished till the IConstantinople by the Turks. As lyre was tamed for its purple, sorenowned for its glass, which was madefine land on the coast near Mount CanneL(xxxvi. 65) describes its discovery asSome merchants who had arrived on thisa cargo of natron, employed some lumpsinstead of stones, to prop op their cautdroinatron being melted by the heat of the fire,stream of glass on the sand. It is prvbabie,that the art was derived from Egypt, whenrished in very ancient times. The Sidoniaaaof the blowpipe, the lathe or wheel, and theThey also cast glass mirrors, and werequainted with the art of imitating previousmeans of glass. (Plin. I. c.) [*he Phoearissl^Halso famous for the manufacture of cloth,and embroidered robes, as we see in the of thoM brought from Sides by Paris ( and in Scriptural allusions. (2 Cknm. iL ls|Phoenicia was likewise cvlebraied for tta(Juv. viii. 159; Plin. xi. 3. a. 2.) Assyria and Egypt, as well as PIreached a high pitch of civilisation, jetphical position of the fonner, andpolicy of the latter, prevented thrmealing it. Ou the Phoenician*the beneficent task of civilisingof commerce, for which their maritimethe borders of Europe and Asia admthem. Their original occupcarriers of the produce and macnCactnimsjjand Egypt (Herod, i. 1); but their marie m»iriority led them to combine with it the p*4sfljpiracy, which in that age was not iec;u-ii*is •graceful. (Thucyd. i. 5; Hi:-.. OtL x*. 4lJhThey were especially noted &a slave-dealera.