OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 243 the games of the hippodrome; from thence he paraded through the streets with athousand banners, and a thousand trumpets; refreshed himself in the baths ofZeuxippus, and returning to the palace, entertained his nobles with a sumptuousbanquet. At the meridian hour he withdrew to his chamber, intoxicated withflattery and wine, and forgetful that his example had made every subject ambi­tious, and that every ambitious subject was his secret enemy. Some bold conspi­rators introduced themselves into the disorder of the feast; and the slumberingmonarch was surprised, bound, blinded, and deposed before he was sensible of hisdanger. Yet the traitors were deprived of their reward; and the free voice of thesenate and people promoted Artemius from the office of secretary to that ofemperor: he assumed the title of Anastasius II. and displayed in a short and trou­bled reign the virtues both of peace and war. But after the extinction of the im­perial line, the rule of obedience was violated, and every change diffused the seedsof new revolutions. In a mutiny of the fleet, an obscure and reluctant officer of therevenue was forcibly invested with the purple: after some months of a naval war,Anastasius resigned the sceptre; and the conqueror, Theodosius III., submitted inhis turn to the superior ascendant of Leo, the general and emperor of the orientaltroops. His two predecessors were permitted to embrace the ecclesiastical pro­fession: the restless impatience of Anastasius tempted him to risk and to lose hislife in a treasonable enterprise; but the last days of Theodosius were honourableand secure. The single and sublime word " health," which he inscribed on histomb, expresses the confidence of philosophy or religion; and the fame of his mi­racles was long preserved among the people of Ephesus. This convenient shel­ter of the church might sometimes impose a lesson of clemency: but it may bequestioned whether it is for the public interest to diminish the perils of unsuccess­ful ambition. I have dwelt on the fall of a tyrant: I shall briefly represent the founder of anew dynasty, who is known to posterity by the invectives of his enemies, and whosepublic and private life is involved in the ecclesiastical story of the Iconoclasts. Yetin spite of the clamours of superstition, a favourable prejudice for the character ofLeo the Isaurian, may be reasonably drawn from the obscurity of his birth, andthe duration of his reign.—I. In an age of manly spirit, the prospect of an impe-perial reward would have kindled every energy of the mind, and produceda crowd of competitors as deserving as they were desirous to reign. Even in thecorruption and debility of the modern Greeks, the elevation of a plebeian fromthe last to the first rank of society, supposes some qualifications above the level ofthe multitude. He would probably be ignorant and disdainful of speculative sci­ence; and in the pursuit of fortune, he might absolve himself from the obligationsof benevolence and justice; but to his character we may ascribe the useful virtuesof prudence and fortitude, the knowledge of mankind, and the important art ofgaining their confidence and directing their passions. It is agreed that Leo was anative of Isauria, and that Conon was his primitive name. The writers, whoseawkward satire is praise, describe him as an itinerant pedlar, who drove an asswith some paltry merchandise to the country fairs; and foolishly relate that he meton the road some Jewish fortune-tellers, who promised him the Roman empire, oncondition that he should abolish the worship of idols. A more probable accountrelates the migration of his father from Asia Minor to Thrace, where he exer­cised the lucrative trade of a grazier; and he must have acquired considerablewealth, since the first introduction of his son was procured by a supply of five hun­dred sheep to the imperial camp. His first service was in the guards of Justinian,where he soon attracted the notice, and by degrees, the jealousy of the tyrant.His valour and dexterity were conspicuous in the Colchian war: from Anastasiushe received the command of the Anatolian legions, and by the suffrage of the sol­diers he was raised to the empire, With the general applause of the Roman world.II. In this dangerous elevation, Leo III. supported himself against, the envy of hisequals, the discontent of a powerful faction, and the assaults of his foreign and do­mestic enemies. The catholics, who accuse his religious innovations, are obligedto confess that they were undertaken with temper, and conducted with firmness.Their silence respects the wisdom of his administration and the purity of his man­ners. After a reign of twenty-four years, he peaceably expired in his palace ofConstantinople; and the purple which he had acquired, was transmitted by theright of inheritance to the third generation. In the long reign of thirty-four years, the son and successor of Leo, ConstantineV, surnamedCopronymus, attacked with less temperate zeal the images or idols