OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 133 forefathers, and live according to them, he was willing to takethem with him, many were ready to accompany him in his wars. 6. So when Alexander had thus settled matters at Jerusalem,he led his army into the neighbouring cities; and when all theinhabitants, to whom he came, received him with great kindness,the Samaritans, who had then Shechem for their metropolis (acity situate at mount Gerizzim, and inhabited by apostates ofthe Jewish nation,) seeing that Alexander had so greatly honour­ed the Jews, determined to profess themselves Jews, for suchis the disposition of the Samaritans, as we have already else­where declared, that when the Jews are in adversity they denythat they are of kin to them, and then they confess the truth;but when they perceive that some good fortune hath befallenthem, they immediately pretend to have communion with them,saying, that they belong to them, and derive their genealogyfrom the posterity of Joseph, Ephraim, and Manasseh. Accord­ingly, they made their address to the king with splendour, andshowed great alacrity in meeting him at a little distance from Je­rusalem. And when Alexander had commanded them, the She-chemites approached to him, taking with them the troops thatSanballat had sent him, and they desired that he would cometo their city, and do honour to their temple also. To whom hepromised, that when he returned he would come to them. Andwhen they petitioned that he would remit the tribute of theseventh year to them, because they did not sow thereon, he askedwho they were that made such a petition, and when they saidthat they were Hebrews, but had the name of Sidonians, livingat Shechem; he asked them again, whether they were Jews, andwhen they said they were not Jews, "It was to the Jews, said"he, that I granted that privilege; however, when I return,"and am thoroughly informed by you of this matter, I will do"what I shall think proper." And in this manner he tookleave of the Shechemites ; but ordered that the troops of San­ballat should follow him into Egypt, because there he designedto give them lands, which he did a little after in Thebais, whenhe ordered them to guard that country. 7. Now when Alexander was dead, the government was part­ed among his successors, but the temple upon mount Gerizzimremained. And if any one were accused by those of Jerusalem,of having eaten things * common, or of having broken the Sab­bath, or of any other crime of the like nature, he fled away tothe Shechemites, and said that he was accused unjustly. Aboutthis time it was that Jaddua the high priest died; and Onias hisson took the high priesthood. This was the state of the affairsof the people of Jerusalem at this time. - * Here Josephus uses the very word K OINOPHAGIA, eating things common, fattnting things unclean; as does our New Testament, Acts x. .14, 15, 28. xi. 8, !>iRomans xiv. 24.