OCR Output 248 PREFACE. th«ir notions from them. For of old, every one took upon th'enito write what happened in his own time ; where their imme­diate concern in the actions made their promises of value ; andwhere it must be reproachful to write lies, when they must beknown by the readers to be such. But then, an undertaking topreserve the memory of what hath not been before recorded, andto represent the affairs of one's own time to those that come af­terwards, is really worthy of praise and commendation. Now,he is to be esteemed to have taken good pains in earnest, notwho does no more than change the disposition and order of othermen's works, but he who not only relates what had not been re­lated before, but composes an entire body of history of his own :accordingly, I have been at great charges, and have taken verygreat pains [about this history], though I be a foreigner ; and do'dedicate this work, as a memorial of great actions, both to theGreeks and to the Barbarians. But, for some of our own prin­cipal men, their mouths are wide open, and their tongues loosedpresently, for gain and law-suits, but quite muzzled up whenthey are to write history, where they must speak truth and ga­ther facts together with a great deal of pains ; and so they leavethe writing such histories to weaker people, and to such as arenot acquainted with the actions of princes. Yet shall the realtruth of historical facts be preferred by us, how much soever itbe neglected among the Greek historians. 6'. To write concerning the Antiquities of the Jews, whothey were [originally], and how they revolted from the Egyp­tians, and what country they travelled over, and what countrythey seized upon afterward, and how they were removed out ofthem, I think this not to be a fit opportunity, and, on other ac­counts, also superfluous; and this because many Jews before mehave composed the histories of our ancestors very exactly j ashave some of the Greeks done it also, and have translated ourhistories into their own tongue, and have not much mistaken thetruth in their histories. But then, where the writers of these af­fairs, and our prophets leave off, thence shall I take my rise,and begin my history. Now, as to what concerns thatwar whichhappened in my own time, 1 will go over it very largely, andwith all the diligence I am able ; but, for what preceded mineown age, that I shall run over briefly. 7. [For example, I shall relate], how Antiochus, who wasnamed Epiphanes, took Jerusalem by force, and held it threeyears and three months, and was then ejected out of the countryby the sons of Asamoneus ; after that, how their posterity quar­relled about the government, and brought upon their settlementthe Romans and Pompey ; how Herod also, ths son of Antipa- ter,