OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII.' selves. Their importance was measured by their vicinityto the empire; and the level country of Moldavia andWalachia was occupied by the Antes/1 a Sclavonian-tribe, which swelled the titles of Justinian with an epi­thet of conquest/ Against the Antes he erected thefortifications of the Lower Danube; and laboured to se­cure the alliance of a people seated in the direct chan­nel of northern inundation, an interval of two hundredmiles between the mountains of Transylvania and theEuxine sea. But the Antes wanted power and inclina^tion to stem the fury of the torrent: and the light-armedfSclavonians, from a hundred tribes, pursued with almostequal speed the footsteps of the Bulgarian horse. Thepayment of one piece of gold for each soldier, procureda safe and easy retreat through the country of the Ge-pida3, who commanded the passage of the Upper Da­nube.' The hopes or fears of the barbarians; their in­testine union or discord; the accident of a frozen orshallow stream; the prospect of harvest or vintage; theprosperity or distress of the Romans; were the causes"which produced the uniform repetition of annual visits,1tedious in the narrative, and destructive in the event,The same year, and possibly the same month, in whichRavenna surrendered, was marked by an invasion of theHuns or Bulgarians, so dreadful, that it almost effacedthe memory of their past inroads. They spread fromthe suburbs of Constantinople to the Ionian Gulf, de*-stroyed thirty-two cities or castles, erazed Potidaea,which Athens had built and Philip had besieged, andrepassed the Danube, dragging at their horses' heels i Antes eorum forlissimi.. . Taysis qui rapidns et vorticosus in H istri fluenla fa-rens devolvitur. (Jornandes, e. 5. p. 194. edit. Murator. Procopius, Goth. lib. 3. Cy14. et de Kdific. lib. 4. c. 7.) Yet the same Procopius mentions the Goths and Hungas neighbours. yurovouvTa, to the Danube, (de Edifio. lib. 4. c. 1.) r The national title of Anlicus, in the laws and inscriptions of Justinian, was adopt­ed by his successors, and is justified by the pious Ludewig (in Vit. Justinian, p. 515.)It had strangely puzzled the civilians of the middle age. 8 Procopius, Goth. lib. 4. c. 25. * An inroad of the Huns is connected, by Procopius, with a comet; porhaps thatof 531. (Persic, lib. 2. c. 4.) Agathaias (lib. 5. p. 154, 155.) borrows from hispredecessor some early facts.