OCR Output 384 ROMAN EMPIRE. tent. Damascus would have acquiesced in the trial ofAiznadin, as a final and peremptory sentence betweenthe emperor and the caliph; her courage was rekindledby the example and authority of Thomas, a noble Greek,illustrious in a private condition by the alliance of Hera-clius.™ The tumult and illumination of the night pro­claimed the design of the morning sally; and theChristian hero, who affected to despise the enthusiasmof the Arabs, employed the resource of a similar super­stition. At the principal gate, in the sight of botharmies, a lofty crucifix was erected; the bishop, withhis clergy, accompanied the march, and laid the volumeof the New Testament before the image of Jesus; andthe contending parties were scandalized or edified by aprayer, that the Son of God would defend his servantsand vindicate his truth. The battle raged with inces­sant fury; and the dexterity of Thomas," an incompara­ble archer, was fatal to the boldest Saracens, till theirdeath was revenged by a female heroine. The wife ofAban, who had followed him to the holy war, embracedher expiring husband. Happy (said she), happy artthou, my dear: thou art gone to thy Lord who first joinedus together, and then parted us asunder. I will revengethy death, and endeavour to the utmost of my power tocome to the place where thou art, because I love thee.Henceforth shall no man ever touch me more, for I havededicated my self to the service of God. Without a groan,without a tear, she washed the corpse of her husband,and buried him with the usual rites. Then grasping themanly weapons, which in her native land she was ac­customed to wield, the intrepid widow of Aban sought the place where his murderer fought in the thickest ofi "' Vanity prompted the Arabs to believe, that Thomas was the son-in-law of theemperor. We know the children of Heraclius by his two wives; and his augustdaughter would not have married in exile at Damascus. (See Ducange, Farn. liv-zantin.p. 118,119.) Had be been less religious, I might only suspect the legitimacyof the damsel. » Al Wakidi (Ockley, p. 101.) says "with poisoned arrows;" but this savageinvention is so repugnant to the practice of the Greeks and Romans, that I mustsuspect, on this occasion, the malevolent credulity of the Saracens.