OCR Output 158 [A. U. C. 773. THE ANNALS were thinned by repeated misfortunes. The Calpur-nian house had lately suffered by the loss of Piso, andthe jEmilian was impaired by the condemnation ofLepida. In order to' make some amends, Decius Sila-nus was restored to the Juniau family. The particu­lars of his case seem to merit some attention. Thelife of Augustus was variously chequered : he was suc­cessful against his country, and m his family oftenunhappy. The mtrigues of his daughter and grand­daughter embittered his days. He ordered them bothto depart from Rome,and punished the adulterers withdeath or banishment. To the commerce natural be­tween the sexes, that emperor gave the naipe of sacri­lege and violated majesty ; and, under colour of thisnew device, forgot at once the lenity of former times,and even the laws enacted by himself. But the tragicissue that befel offenders of this kind, with other me­morable events of that period, shall be the subject ofa distinct history, if, when the work now on hand isfinished, my life shall be protracted in health and vi­gour for a new undertaking. With regard to Silanus, who had a criminal con­nexion willi the grand-daughter of Augustus; his of­fence drew upon him no greater vengeance than a totalexclusion from the friendship of the emperor. Thatexclusion, as Silanus understood it, implied a sentenceof banishment. He retired into voluntary exile, andnever, till the reign of Tiberius, presumed to apply,either to the prince or senate, for permission to returnto his country. For Jhe favour extended to him; hewas indebted to the weight and influence of his bro­ther, Marcus Silanus, who added to his high rank thefame of distinguished eloquence. Marcus prevailedwith the emperor, and in a full meeting of the senate,expressed his sense of the obligation. Tiberius an­swered, that " the return of Decius Silanus, after a" long absence, was an event agreeable to all. It was," however, no more than his legal right. No law had" abridged his liberty; no decree of the senate was in" force against him. And yet it was impossible for the" prince to forget the wrongs done to Augustus; nor" could the return of Silanus either efface his crime, or