OCR Output IS LIVY. set sail from Tarraco, arrived at Rome, and passingthrough the streets, with the train of prisoners whomhe hrought, attracted a vast concourse of people. Nextday, being introduced to the senate, he delivered theadvices with which he was charged, that Carthage, themetropolis of Spain, had been reduced in one day,several revolted cities brought back to obedience, andnew alliances formed with others. From the prisonersinformation was gained, corresponding, in general, withthat contained in the letter of Marcus Valerius Mes-sala. What gave the greatest uneasiness to the senate-was Hasdrubal's intended march into Italy, which wasscarcely able to withstand Hannibal, and the forcewhich he had already with him. Laelius also, comingout into the general assembly, gave a similar account.The senate, in consideration of the services performedby Publius Scipio, decreed a supplication for one day,and then ordered Caius Laelius to return with all expe­dition to Spain, with the ships which he had broughtthence. On the authority of a great many historians,I have fixed the taking of Carthage in this year, al­though I am not ignorant that several have placed it inthe year following; but it appeared to me very impro­bable that Scipio should have passed a whole year inSpain without doing any thing. [A. U. C. 543. B. C.209.] The consulate of Quintus Fabius Maximus, afifth time, and Quintus Fulvius Flaccus, a fourth, com­mencing on the ides of March, a decree was passed onthe same day, appointing Italy the province of both,but they were to command separately in different quar­ters; Fabius to conduct the operations of the war atTarentum, Fulvius in Lucania and Bruttium. MarcusClaudius was continued in command for a year. Thepretors then cast lots for their provinces: Caius Hos-tilius Tibullus obtained the city jurisdiction; LuciusVeturius Philo the foreign, with Gaul; Titus QuintiusCrispinus, Capua; and Caius Arunculeius, Sardinia.The troops were distributed among the provinces inthis manner: to Fulvius were decreed the two legionswhich Marcus Valerius Laevinus had in Sicily; to