OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. . 167 pected attack, determined on a regular engagement.They therefore marched out into the plain ; and, witha greater share of spirit than of hopes, committed them­selves to the disposal of fortune. However, whetherin consequence of their having drawn together, fromevery state, the whole of the force which it possessed,or that the consideration of their all being at stakeheightened their courage, they maintained, even inopen fight, a formidable struggle. Fabius, when hesaw that the enemy in no place gave way, ordered hisson Maximus and Marcus Valerius, military tribunes,with whom he hastened to the front, to seek the cavalry,and to exhort them, that ' if they remembered any in­stance wherein the public had received advantage fromthe service of the horsemen they would on that dayexert themselves to preserve inviolate the renown ofthat body ; telling them that the enemy stood immova­ble against the efforts of the infantry, and the onlyhope remaining was in the charge of horse.' He ad­dressed particularly both these youths, and with thesame cordiality, loading them with praises and pro­mises. At the same time, considering that in case thateffort should a1so fail, it would be necessary to accom­plish by stratagem what his strength could not effect,he ordered Scipio, one of his lieutenants-general, todraw off the spearmen of the first legion out of theline; to lead them round as secretly as possible to thenearest mountains ; and, in such direction as he couldascend without being seen, to gain the heights, andshow himself suddenly on the rear of the enemy, whiletheir attention should be employed on the front. Thecavalry, led on by the tribunes, rushing forward unex­pectedly before the van, caused scarcely more confusionamong the enemy than among their friends. The lineof the Samnites stood firm against the furious onset ofthe squadrons ; it neither could be driven from itsground, nor broken in any part. The cavalry, findingtheir attempts fruitless, withdrew from the fight, andretired behind the line of infantry. On this the enemyassumed new spirits, with increasing confidence in their