OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 215 rasius, and ratified by the acclamations and subscriptionsof three hundred and fifty bishops. They unanimouslypronounced, that the worship of images is agreeable toScripture and reason, to the fathers and councils of thechurch: but they hesitate whether that worship be rela­tive or direct; whether the godhead, and the figure ofChrist, be entitled to the same mode of adoration. Ofthis second Nicene council, the acts are still extant; acuriousmonumentof superstition and ignorance; of false­hood and folly. I shall only notice the judgment of thebishops, on the comparative merit of image-worship andmorality. A monk had concluded a truce with the de­mon of fornication, on condition of interrupting his dailyprayers to a picture that hung in his cell. His scruplesprompted him to consult the abbot. Rather than ab­stain from adoring Christ and his mother in their holyimages, it would be better (replied the casuist) to enterevery brothel, and visit every prostitute, in the city.1Final esta- For the honour of orthodoxy, at least the or-ofUrT""* thodoxy of the Roman church, it is somewhat>7 **«I unfortunate, that the two princes who convenedTheodora, the two councils of Nice, are both stained with'D'842'the blood of their sons. The second of theseassemblies was approved and rigorously executed bythe despotism of Irene; and she refused her adver­saries the toleration which at first she had granted toher friends. During the five succeeding reigns, a pe­riod of thirty-eight years, the contest was maintained,with unabated rage and various success, between theworshippers and the breakers of the images; but I amnot inclined to pursue with minute diligence the repe­tition of the same events. Nicephorus allowed a ge- were persuaded by the Catholics to represent the oriental patriarchs. This cu­rious anecdote is revealed by Theodore Studitei, (epist. 1. 38. in Sirmond. Opp.torn. 5. p. 1519.) one of the warmest Iconoclasts of the nge. 1 Zu/tKpif ii Ji ffoi ff' xaraXifl-liv iv TTI TroXu Tai/rjl Trofttiov ii; o fjtn n '' • ,, *t !w aymffn TO VftffKVnn TOT *'-;..: I fi i; Hal dlflV !,:.-:. XplCTOV {.'.;'• THf tljaf aUTOU fbUlTpo? IV IIXoW. These visits could not be innocent, since the Aai^uw Trogviiac (the demon of forni­cation) roXf/ufi >i avroi . . . tv [JUf wi if ITTWIITO aua-rtf a-^atfa, &c. Actio 1. p.901. Actio5.p. 1031.