OCR Output OF ROME. additional authority and dignity on the office Itfelf. B O OAnd, on the other fide, the tribunes, looking on the i 1employment rather as neceflary, which was the cafe Y.R. 31at the time, than as attended with any extraordinary B.c. **luftre, did not choofe to oppofe it, left they fhouldfeem, through perverfenefs, to carry on their oppo-fition even in trifles. The leading men in the ftate/hewing a diflike of the office, the people by theirfuffrages conferred the employment of performingthe cenfus on Papirius and Sempronius, the perfonswhofe confulate is doubted, in order to.recompenccthem, by that office, for having enjoyed the conful-fhip only for a part of the ufual period. From thebufinefs of their office they were called Cenfors. IX. DURING thefe tranfactions at Rome, ambaf-fadors came from Ardea, imploring, in regard of thealliance fubfifting between them from the earliefttimes, and of the treaty lately renewed, relief fortheir city, now on the brink of ruin. For the peacewith Rome, which they had, by the foundef t policy,preferved, they were prevented from enjoying by in-leftine war, the caufe and origin of which is faid tohave arifen from a.ftruggle between factions, whichhave proved, and will ever continue to prove, a moredeadly caufe of downfall to moft ftates, than either i foreign wars, or famine, or peftilence, or any other ofthofe evils, which men are apt to confider as the fe-vereft of public calamities, and the effects of the di­vine vengeance. Two ydung men courted a maidenof a plebeian family, highly diftinguifaed for beauty:one of them on a level with the maid, in point ofbirth, and favoured by her guardians, who were them-felves of the fame rank; the other of noble birth,captivated merely by her beauty. The pretenfionsof the latter were fupported by the intereft of thenobles, which proved the means of introducing partydifputes into the damfel's family; for the nobleman'swifhes were feconded by her mother, who was am-A A 2 bilious