OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, '. i# "might remain sole emperor j he Was unable to obtain it"He requested, that the power might be equally divided between"them; the army would not listen to his speech. He consented"to be degraded to the rank of Caesar; the favour Was refused*' him. He desired, at least, he might be appointed Prætorian"praefect; his prayer was rejected. Finally, he pleaded for hiftw life. The army, in these several judgments, exercised the Al*"preme magistracy." According to the historian, whose doubtfulnarrative the president De Montesquieu has adopted, Philip, Whos,during the whole transaction, had preserved a sullen silence, Wasinclined to spare the innocent life of his benefactor; till, recollect­ing that hit innocence might excite a dangerous compassion iri theRoman world; he commanded, without regard to his suppliantcries, that he should be seized, strips, and led aWay to instant death.After a moment's pause the inhuman sentence was executed 54. On his return from the east to Rome, Philip, desirous of ob- Reign ofliberating the memory of his-erimes, and of captivating the affections Phll'p'of the people, solemnized the secular games with infinite pompand magnificence* Since their institution' or revival by Au­gustus they had been celebrated by Claudius, by Domitian* andby Severus, and were now renewed, the fifth time, on the ac­complishment of the full period of a thousand years from the foun*dation of Rome. Every circumstance of the secular games was SecuIar" J "* games. skilfully adapted to inspire the superstitious mind with deep and A- P-solemn reverence. The long, interval between them50 exceeded1 theterm of human life;, and;as none of the spectators had already seenthem, none could flatter themselves with the expectation of be­holding them a second time. The mystio sacrifices were performed,during three nights, on the banks of the Tyber ; and the Campus-Martius resounded with music and dances, and was illuminatedwith innumerable lamps and torches. Slaves and strangerswere excluded' from the peculiar ceremonies of the republic. A chorus