OCR Output 144 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. chapiters of the feet imitated the first buddings of lilies, whiletheir leaves were bent and laid under the table, but so that thechives were seen standing upright within them. Their baseswere made of a carbuncle; and the place at the bottom, whichrested on that carbuncle, was one palm deep, and eight fingersin breadth. Now they had engraven upon it with a very fine tool,and with a great deal of pains, a branch of ivy, and tendrils ofthe vine; sending forth clusters of grapes, that you would guessthey were no wise different from real tendrils, for they were sovery thin, and so very far extended at their extremities, thatthey were moved with the wind, and made one believe that they-were the product of nature, and not the representation of art.They also made the entire workmanship of the table appear tobe threefold, while the joints of the several parts were so unitedtogether as to be invisible, and the places where they joinedcould not be distinguished. Now the thickness of the table wasnot less than half a cubit. So that this gift, by the king's greatgenerosity, by the great value of the materials, and the varietyof its exquisite structure, and the artificer's skill in imitatingnature with graving tools, was at length brought to perfection,while the king was very desirous that though in largeness itwere not to be different from that which was already dedicatedto God, yet that in exquisite workmanship, and the novelty ofthe contrivances, and in the splendour of its construction, itshould far exceed it, and be more illustrious than that was. 10. Now of the cisterns of gold there were two, whose sculp­ture was of scale-work, from its basis to its belt-like circle, withvarious sorts of stones inchased in the spiral circles. Next towhich there was upon it a meander of a cubit in height; it wascomposed of stones of all sorts of colours. And next to this wasthe rod-work engraven; and next to that was a rhombus in atexture of net-work, drawn out to the brim of the bason, whilesmall shields made of stones, beautiful in their kind, and of fourfingers depth, filled up the middle parts. About the top of thebason were wreathed the leaves of lilies, and of the convolvulus,and the tendrils of vines, in a circular manner. And this wasthe construction of the two cisterns of gold, each containing twofirkins. But those which were of silver were much more brightand splendid than looking glasses, and you might in them seethe images that fell upon them more plainly than in the other.The king also ordered thirty vials; those of which the parts thatwere of gold, and not filled up with precious stones, were shadow­ed over with the leaves of ivy, and of vines, artificially engraven.And these were the vessels that were, after an extraordinarymanner, brought to this perfection, partly by the skill of theworkmen, who were admirable in such fine work, but much