OCR Output 358 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. and, in the mean time, that he had only to think of theroyal combat, the royal spoils of Romulus, and JupiterFeretrius, in the time of action. The armies charged each other with great ardour onboth sides. The Romans, exasperated to-the highest de­gree, insulted their enemies, with the opprobrious namesof villainous Fidenates, felonious Vejentes, truce-break­ers, the cruel murderers of their ambassadors, the inhu­man butchers of the Roman colony,' perfidious allies,dastardly enemies: and thus gave full vent to their in­dignation in words, as well as actions.l, CHAP. XXXIII.Defeat of the Vejentes, and Fidenates. JL HEY had already begun to give way upon the firstcharge, when the gates of Fidtnae, on a sudden, flewopen, and a strange kind of army sallied out, till thatmoment, never seen nor heard of. A huge multitude,armed with fire, and blazing all over with the flames oflighted torches, ran furiously against their enemies witha kmd of enthusiastic rage; and by this new mode offighting, put the Romans in some confusion, Then thedictator, to animate the baitle, having given the signalto the general of the horse, and called down Quiuctiusfrom the heights, he flew in person to the left wing,which, terrified at the appearance of a conflagration, ra­ther than a battle, had begun to draw back from theflames, and cried out with an audible voice, ' Will youthen be driven from your ground, with nothing butsmoke, like a swarm of bees. ami fly before an unarm­ed enemy? Will you uot extinguish these flames byyour swords? If you are to fight with fire, and not thesword; will not each of s'ou, for his own part, wrestthese torches from ihe enemy, and turn them againstthemselves? Go, remember the Roman name, andyour own valour, as well as the gallantry of your an­cestors; turn these flames against the enemy's capital,and destroy Fideive by its own fires, which yon havenot been able to conciliate by all your favours. Theblood of your ambassadors and colony, and the depre­