OCR Output 252 ROMAN EMPIRE. passed the Alps consisted of three hundred horse. In the cathedral of St. Ambrose, Charles wascrowned with the iron crown, which tradition ascribedto the Lombard monarchy; but he was admitted onlywith a peaceful train; the gates of the city were shutupon him; and the king of Italy was held a captive bythe arms of the Visconti, whom he confirmed in thesovereignty of Milan. In the Vatican he was againcrowned with the golden crown of the empire; but, inobedience to a secret treaty, the Roman emperor imme­diately withdrew, without reposing a single night withinthe walls of Rome. The eloquent Petrarch," whosefancy revived the visionary glories of the Capitol, de­plores and upbraids the ignominious flight of the Bohe­mian; and even his contemporaries could observe, thatthe sole exercise of his authority was in the lucrativesale of privileges and titles. The gold of Italy securedthe election of his son; but such was the shameful po­verty of the Roman emperor, that his person was ar­rested by a butcher in the streets of Worms, and wasdetained in the public inn, as a pledge or hostage forthe payment of his expenses. His osten From this humiliating scene, let us turn to thetation,^ apparent majesty of the same Charles in thediets of the empire. The golden bull, whichfixes the Germanic constitution, is promulgated in thestyle of a sovereign and legislator. A hundred princesbowed before his throne, and exalted their own dignityby the voluntary honours which they yielded to theirchief or minister. At the royal banquet, the hereditarygreat officers, the seven electors, who in rank and titlewere equal to kings, performed their solemn and domes­tic service of the palace. The seals of the triple king­dom were borne in state by the archbishops of Mentz, "Besides the German and Italian historians, tho expedition of Charles IV. ispainted in lively and original colours in the curious Memoires sur la Vie de IV.trarque, torn. 3. p. 376—430. by the abbe de Sade, whose prolixity has m UT beenblamed by any reader of taste and curiosity.