OCR Output THEHAE AEGYPTI. TIIKBAE AEGYPTI. 1143 !so terred to Irak the current or the stream. The»«t remarkable monuments are two obelisks ofiimM I1L. respectively 70 and 60 feet high, one[ nh'ich still remains there, while the other hasm removed to the J'laet d» fa Concorde at Paris,heir unequal height was partially concealed fromv spectator by the lower obelisk being placed upon"higher pedestal. Behind them were two mono-:s»I statues of that monarch, in red Syenite granite,hoe lire now covered from the breast downwardsth rubbish and fluvial deposit, but were, originally,eluding their chairs or bases, 39 feet high. Nextsteads a court, surrounded by a corridor of double.lomr», 190 feet long and 170 broad. It is enteredinurji a portal 51 feet in height, whose pyramidaltags are iaacribed with the battles of rUmesra. Onw "ppnite side of the court a second portal, erected'Antinoph III., opens upon a colonnade which»ii to a smaller court, and this again terminatesitb a portico composed of four rows of columns,rht in each row. Beyond the third portico followsconsiderable number of apartments, Banking aurinary on the walls of which are represented thertli of Atnunoph, and bis presentation to Amun.A dromos of andro-*phinxa, and various build-rt new covered with sand and dried mud, formerly■ir*rt*d the quarter of eastern Theboa, representedI uxor, with that represented by Karnak. Neartiie latter place a portion of the dromos stillft-', and a little to the right of it a secondi«u« of crio-tphinjxi branches otT, which must• « been one of the moot remarkable structures' in» nty. It led up to the palace of the kings, andi*»ted of a double row of statues, sixty or seventyumber, each 11 feet distant from the next, andh hiving a lion's body aad a ram's head. The*. entrance of the palace ia a lofty portal, followedf..nr spacious courts with intervening gateways.Tor grandeur of the palace is, in some degree,i-ntd by later additions to its plan, for on thebi tide of the great court was a cluster ofui! dumber*, while on its left were only twoirtrnenta. Their object ia unknown, but theyIMj mrved as lodgings or offices for the royal:tMiauta. In the first of the two main courtsiod tare obelisks of Thothines I., one in fragments,■ i4hrr still erect and uninjured. In a secondon to tike right of the first, there were two obelisks•': the one which remains is 92 feet high. Thelest portion of the palace of Karnak appears to be«w chambers, and some polygonal columns bearingr rhield of Sesortasen I. To these—the nucleusH e later structures—Thothmes HI. made consi-"V>le additions; among them a chamber whose..V. tires compose the great Karnak Tablet, so im-ti-nt * document for Aegyptian chronology.Hut the Great Court is surpassed in magnificencethe Great HalL This is 80 leet in height, and 329t Img by 179 broad. The roof is supported by 134'imr*, 12 in the centre and 122 in the aisles.■.' central columns arc each 66 feet high, cleartheir pedestals, and each 11 feet in diameter.>• pedestals were 10 feet high, and the abacusf tt.cir capitals, on which rested the architravesthe coating, was 4 feet in depth. The columnsre warb about 27 feet apart from one another.r uc«le-o>lumiia stood in 7 rows, were each 41■. rurb, and 9 feet in girth. Light and airre admitted into the building through aperturesne aide walls. Tlie founder of the palace was< -. - Meuephthab, of the 18th dynasty; but one reign cannot have sufficed fur building so gigantic a court,and we know indeed not only that many of thehistorical bas-relief* which cover the walls werecontributed by his son Barneses II., but also tlnitthe latter added to the Great Hall, on its NW.side, a vast hypetbral court, 27S feet in breadth,by 329 in length. This, like the hall, had adouble row of columns down its centre, anil »covered corridor round its sides. Four gatewaysopening to the four quarters gave admission intothis court: and to the principal one which frontedthe Nile an avenue of cric-sphinxes led up, headedby two granite statues of Rameses II. The purpose for which these spacious courts andtheir annexed halls and esplanades were erected wasperhaps partly religious, and partly secular. Thoughthe kings of the 18th and succeeding dynasties hadceased to be chief-priests, they still retained manyceremonial functions, and the sacred calendar ofAegypt abounded in days of periodical meetings forreligiousobjecta. At such paneyyries the priests alonewere a host, and the people were not excluded. Frontthe sculptures also it appears that the Court of RoyalPalaces was the place where troops were reviewed,embassies received, captives executed or distributed,and the spoils or honours of victory apportioned.Both temple* and palaces also served occasionally forthe encampment of soldiers and the administrationof justice. The temperature of the Thebaid ren­dered vast spaces indispensable for the congregationof numbers, and utility as well as pomp may havecombined in giving their colossal scale to the struc­tures of the Pharaohs. In the Great Hall a great number of the columnsare still erect. The many which have fallen havebeen undermined by water loosening the soil below:and they fall the more easily, because the archi­trave! of the roof no longer hold them upright.The most costly materials were employed iu someparts of the palace. Cornices of the finest marblewere inlaid with ivory mouldings or sheathed withbeaten gold. These were the principal structures of the easternmoiety of Thebes: but other drotnoi and gatewaysstand within the circuit of its walls, and by theirsculptures or inscriptions attest that the Macedonianas well as the native rulers extended, renovated, oradomed the capital of the Vpper Country. Theeastern branch of the dromos which connects Lunrwith Karnak appears from its remains to havebeen originally 500 feet in length, and coin-posed of a double row of ram-headed lions 58 innumber. The loftiest of Aegyptian portals stand*at its SW. extremity. It is 64 feet high, butwithout the usual pyramidal propyla. It is indeeda work of the Greek era, and was raised by PtolemyEuergetes I. Kamesca 1V. and Kainesea Nil I. addedtemples and a dromos to the city. Nor was TlicU*without its benefactors even bo late as the era of theRoman Caesars. The name of Tiberius was inscribedon one of its temples; and Hadrian, while engaged inhis general survey of the Empire, directed some re­pairs or additions to be made u> the temple of Zcus-Ammon. That Thebes, as Herodotus and Diodorussaw it, stood upon the site and incorporated theremains of a yet more ancient city, is rendered pro­bable by its sudden expansion under the lHthdynasty of tho Pharaohs, as well as by extant hpeci-mens of its architecture, more iu affinity with themonuments S. of the cataracts than with the properAegyptiau style. It seems hardly questionable that 4 l> 4