OCR Output CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 181 CHAP. L. - The Fabii full into an ambuscade, and are cut off, V/NCE more the Vejentes resumed their operation'against the Fabii, without any new preparations; nordid they content themselves with ravaging the countrv,or making sudden incursions, but sometimes measuredtheir swords in pitched battles, upon fair ground. Thusone Roman family, frequently carried off the victoryfrom a people, who were, at that time, the most opulentof all the Etrurian nations. By this the Vejentes at first,thought themselves disgraced and highly affronted: and,in consequence, formed a design of laying ambuscadesfor their intrepid enemy; and rejoiced to find, that theforwardness of the Fabii increased with their repeatedvictories. Wherefore, herds of cattle were frequently driven outin the way of foraging parties, as if they had lightedon them by chance; and by the flight of the peasants,vast tracts of land seemed to be abandoned. Parties ofsoldiers were also sent out to chastise the ravagers, whoretreated oftener through a pretended than a real fear. By this time, the Fabii held the enemy in such sove­reign contempt, that they did not imagine they couldstand against their victorious arms, let the occasion orground be ever so advantageous< Elated with thesehopes, and seeing some herds of cattle grazing in a plain,at a considerable distance from Cremera, although theywere guarded by some small parties of the enemy, theyran from the fort to carry them off. Thinking them­selves secure, they had passed the ambush laid for themon both sides of the way, and had dispersed in pursuitof the cattle, straggling through the fields, which theyalways do upon an alarm; the enemy suddenly quittingtheir lurking places, appeared all at once, in front andin rear, and on every side. At first they raised a terrible shout, and then pouredin a volley of darts upon them from every quarter. TheEtrurians came closer together, till the Fabii were totallysurrounded, by one strong uniform body of armed muti,