OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 177 whom he had preserved in his infancy, when he was chap.left a helpless orphan; "An orphan!" interrupted XVILJulian, who justified his cause by indulging his pas­sions; "does the assassin of my family reproach me"that I was left an orphan? He urges me to re-"venge those injuries which I have long studied to"forget." The assembly was dismissed; and Leonas,who, with some difficulty, had been protected fromthe popular fury, was sent back to his master, withan epistle, in which Julian expressed, in a strain ofthe most vehement eloquence, the sentiments of con­tempt, of hatred, and of resentment, which had beensuppressed and embittered by the dissimulation oftwenty years. After this message, which might beconsidered as a signal of irreconcilable war, Julian,who some weeks before had celebrated the Christianfestival of the Epiphany, made a public declaration,that he committed the care of his safety to the im­mortal gods; and thus publicly renounced the re­ligion, as well as the friendship, of Constantius *. The situation of Julian required a vigorous and Julian Pre-immediate resolution. He had discovered, from in- attack Con-tercepted letters, that his adversary, sacrificing thestantlus,interest of the state to that of the monarch, had againexcited the Barbarians to invade the provinces of theWest. The position of two magazines, one of themcollected on the banks of the lake of Constance, theother formed at the foot of the Cottian Alps, seemedto indicate the march of two armies; and the size ofthose magazines, each of which consisted of six hun­dred thousand quarters of wheat, or rather flour, wasa threatening evidence of the strength and numbersof the enemy, who prepared to surround him. But * The public and secret negotiations between Constantius and Julian must beextracted, with sorne caution, from Julian himself (Orat. ad S. P. Q. Athen.p. 286 ). Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 51. p. 276.), Ammianus (xx. 9.), ZosimusU, iii. p. 154.), and even Zonaras (torn. ii. 1. xiii. p. 20, 21, 22.), who, on this oc­casion, appears to have possessed and used some valuable materials. VOL. II. N