OCR Output CH'AP. 41. ROMAN HISTORY. . 75 inmost rooms of the palace, they were called and accord­ingly went before the king. Upon theirfirst appearance,they bawled out both at the same time, the one strivingto interrupt the other; but, when checked by the Lie-tor, and ordered to speak each in his turn, they gaveover their railing. One of them then, as had been con­certed, began to tell his story; to which, while the kingwas all attention, the other lifting up his hatchet, threwit against his head, and leaving the weapon in the wound,both ran instantly out of doors. CHAP. XLI. Tarquin succeeded by SermusTttltius. W..I1ILST some of the company hastened to assist thewounded king, the lictors pursued the rufftans, and seiz­ed them. By this time there was a great uoise, and con­course of people about the palace, wondering what couldbe the matter. During the confusion, Tanaquil ordersthe palace gates to be shut, and having cleared it of thecrowd, she carefully gets every thing ready for the cureof the wound, as if there had been hopes of her husband'srecovery: at the same time, should no hopes remain, sheplans other expedients for her security. Servius beingcalled, in all haste, she carries him to her expiring hus­band, and taking his right hand in tier's, she conjureshim, that he would not suffer his father-in-law's death topass unrevenged, nor his mother-in-law to be exposed tothe insults of her enemies. If you are a man, Servius,continued she, the crown is thine, not theirs, who, bythe hands of assassins, have committed the most exe­crable villainy. Take Courage then, and follow thegods thy conductors, who foretold thy future glory by,the divine fire which shone around thy head: let thatcelestial flame now warm thee. Rouse thyself now inearnest. We who were strangers have reigned here.Consider, who, not of whom, thou art. If your owncounsels are at a stand, by reason of this unexpectedblow, follow mine."When the noise and pressure of the mob became in­tolerable, Tanaquil addresses the people from a window