OCR Output 4V2 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II, down to him presently, and when he had taken them into one ofhis vessels, he ordered them to be carried a great way off fromthe city. He then commanded that fifty others of their senate,such as were men of the greatest eminence, should come to him,that they also might give him some security on their behalf.After which, under one new pretence or another, he called forthothers, one after another, to make the leagues between them.He then gave order to the masters of those vessels which he hadthus filled, to sail away immediately for Taricheae, and to con.,fine those men in the prison there; till at length he took alltheir senate, consisting of six hundred persons, and about twothousand of the populace, and carried them away to Tarichea;.10. And when the rest of the people cried out, that it wasone Clitus that was the chief author of this revolt, they desiredhim to spend his anger upon him [only]; but Josephus, whose in.tention it was to slay nobody, commanded one Levius, belongingto his guards, to go out of the vessel in order to cut off bothGlitus's hands; yet was Levius afraid to go out by himselfalone, to such a large body of enemies, and refused to go. NowClitus saw that Josephus was in a great passion in the ship, andready to leap out of it, in order to execute the punishment him­self; he begged therefore from the shore, that he would leavehim one of his hands, which Josephus agreed to, upon conditionthat he would himself cut off the other hand; accordingly hedrew his sword, and with his right hand cut off his left, so greatwas the fear he was in of Josephus himself. And thus he tookthe people of Tiberias prisoners, and recovered the city againwith empty shius * and seven of his guard. Moreover, a fewdays afterward he retook Gischala, which had revolted with theTropic of Sepphoris, and gave his soldiers leave to plunder it;vet did he get all the plunder together, and restored it to the in­habitants, and the like he did to the inhabitants of Sepphoris,and Tiberias. For when he had subdued those cities, he hada mind, by letting them be plundered, to give them some goodinstruction, while at the same time he regained their good-willby restoring them their money again. CHAP. XXII. The Jews mate all ready for the war. And Simon the son of Gioras fulls to the plundering. S. 1. A ND thus were the disturbances of Galilee quieted,+ \. when, upon their ceasing to prosecute their civil dis­sensions, they betook themselves to make preparations for the war * I cannot bat think this stratagem of Josephus,which is related both here a^Jin his life, § 31, 33. Vol. III. to be one of the liiiesc thai i;ver wss inyentijd atA-•,-srutcd by any v;arr:or whatsoever.