OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 239 ness; then halted, disconcerted somewhat by this newmanner of fighting; at last, they not only gave way tothe infantry, but did not dare to withstand even thehorse, emboldened as they were by the support of thefoot. And now the battalions also of the legions ap­proached, when the Masaesylians, so far from daringto meet their first attack, could not support even thesight of their engines and arms; so strongly were theyaffected, either by the recollection of their former ca­lamities, or by the present danger. At this junctureSyphax, galloping up to try if, either by shame or bythe danger to which he was exposed, he could stop theflight of his men, being thrown from his horse, whichwas grievously wounded, was overpowered and taken,and dragged alive to Laelius ;—a sight grateful to Ma-sinissa above all others. To Cirtha, the capital ofSyphax's kingdom, a vast multitude fled. The num­ber of slain in that battle was less than in proportionto the greatness of the victory, because the cavalryonly had been engaged. Not more than five thousandwere killed; less than half that number taken, in anattack on their camp, to which the multitude had re­tired in dismay at the loss of their king. r 12. Masinissa declared that ' nothing could be morehighly gratifying to him, now that he was victorious,after so long a struggle, than to revisit his paternalkingdom: but that the present happy situation of bisaffairs required activity, as much as his former mis­fortunes. If Laelius would permit him to go on beforehim to Cirtha, with the cavalry, and Syphax as hisprisoner, he would strike such terror, while the enemywere in confusion and dismay, as would crush all oppo­sition; and that Laslius might follow with the infantryby easy marches.' Laslius assenting, he went forwardto Cirtha, and ordered the principal inhabitants to beinvited to a conference. But, as they were ignorant oftheir king's misfortune, neither his relation of whathad passed, nor his threats, nor persuasions, wroughtany effect, until Syphax was produced to their view inchains. This shocking sight excited a general lamen­