OCR Output 46 LIVY. At length he set out, with a number of recruits, tojoin the army, which he had left the year before atVenusia. Crispinus, observing the great degree offame which the taking of Tarentum had procured toMarcelhis, prepared to lay siege to Locri in Bruttium,sending to Sicily for engines and machines of all sorts,and calling over a fleet from thence, to attack thatquarter of the city which stretched down to the sea.But he laid aside his design of the siege, becauseHannibal had advanced to Licinium: he heard, too,that his colleague had led out his army from Venusia,which made him wish to unite their forces. Crispinustherefore withdrew from Bruttium into Apulia, andthe two consuls sat down in separate camps, distantfrom each other less than three miles, between Venu­sia and Bantia. Hannibal also returned into the samecountry, as soon as he had saved Locri from a siege.And now the consuls, being both impatient for action,offered battle almost every day; not doubting butthat, if the enemy would hazard an engagement withthe two consular armies united, they might effectuallyput an end to the war. 26. As Hannibal, of the two battles which he hadfought with Marcellus the year before, had gained oneand lost the other, he might now, in case of an en­gagement with the same antagonist, find reasonablegrounds both of hope and fear; but he could, by nomeans, believe himself equal to a contest with the twoconsuls together. Applying himself, therefore, whollyto his old artifices, he watched an opportunity for anambuscade. However, several skirmishes were foughtbetween the camps with various success, and the con­suls began to think that the summer might be spun outin this manner. They were of opinion, however, thatthe siege of Locri might, nevertheless, be prosecuted;and they wrote to Lucius Cincius to come over withthe fleet from Sicily to that place; and to carry on thesiege on the land side, they ordered half the troops ingarrison at Tarentum to march thither. Hannibal,having received previous intimation from some Thu-