OCR Output CHAP. 36. ROMAN HISTORV. 453 CHAP. XXXVI. - , •\-.'.. ' ." I Fatal error of the Fabii. T. • . : ,. '. . j.HE embassy in itself had nothing irritating, but itwas delivered in a tone, -and with an air which breathedmore of the Gaulic fierceness, than of Roman politeness.Having delivered their commission in a council of theGauls they had the following return: 'That the name ofthe Romans.was but iittle known to them, though theyhad no tioubt of their bravery, since the Clusians hadthought proper to apply to them in their danger. Thatas thjey had chose rather to employ the methods of pa­cification, than their arms, in defence of their allies,they, on their side, should not reject the offered peace,provided the Clusians, who had more land than theycould well manage, would give up a part of it to the Gauls,who needed it. Without this condition, all proposalsfor peace were inadmissible. That they would be gladto receive their answer in presence of the Roman am­bassadors; and in case of a refusal, they would givethem battle in presence of the same Romans, that theymight be able to say, upoo their return, how much theGauls are superior to all mankind in bravery.'Upon this, the ambassadors demanded to know, ' Bywhat right they could insist on having land from itspossessors, and if not granted, to threaten them withwar? Besides, what business had they in Tuscany?We carry our right,' replied they fiercely, ' in the pointsof our swords; the brave are lords of the world.' Bothsides were now highly exasperated, and flew to their arms,and began the action. There, the ambassadors, the fatesHOW pushing on the destruction .of Rome, in direct con­tradiction to the law of nations, took up arms. Nor couldthis remain a secret, when three warriors of the greatestdistinction and valour of all the Roman youth, fought atthe head of the Etrurians: so conspicuously did thebravery of the?e strangers distinguish them from theClusians. Moreover, Q. Fabius, riding up before thefirst line, and meeting one of the Gaulic commanderswho was rushing furiously upon the van of the Etrurians,ran him through the side with his lance, and kilted him