OCR Output av. 1532.] 105 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. at all injured her husband, and to wish thatif she had violated her chastity, her rightthigh might be put out of joint, that her bellymight swell, and that she might die thus: butthat if her husband, by the violence of hisaffection, and of the jealousy which arosefrom it, had been rashly moved to this sus­picion, that she might bear a male child onthe tenth month. Now when these oaths wereover, the priest wiped the name of God outof the parchment, and wrung the water intoa vial. He also took up some dust out of thetemple, if any happened to be there, and puta little of it into the vial, and gave it her todrink, whereupon the woman, if she were un­justly accused, conceived a child, and broughtit to perfection; but if she had broken herfaith of wedlock to her husband, and hadsworn falsely before God, she died in a re­proachful manner:* her thigh fell off fromher, and her belly swelled with a dropsy:and these are the ceremonies about sacrifices,and about the purifications thereto belong­ing, which Moses provided for his country­men. He also prescribed the following lawsto them. CHAP. XII. OF SEVERAL LAWS INSTITUTED BY MOSES. AS for adultery, Moses forbade it entirely,as esteeming it a happy thing that menshould be wise in the affairs of wedlock, andthat it was profitable both to cities and fami­lies that children should be known to be genu­ine. He also abhorred a man's connectionwith his mother, father's wife, aunt, sister, orson's wife, as instances of abominable wick­edness. He also forbade a man to lie withhis wife when she was defiled; and not tocome near brute beasts; nor to approve ofthe lying with a male in order to hunt afterunlawful pleasures on account of beauty. Tothose which were guilty of such insolent be­haviour, he' ordained death for their punish­ ment. /; ; »iiii ii .* . Numb, y., 27. • . "f These words of Josephus are. remarkable, that thelawgiver of the Jews required of the priests a double de­gree otf purity, in comparison of that required of the peo­ple-, of- which he gives several instances. This was thecase also among the first Christians of the eletfgy, in com­parison of the laity, as the apostolical constitutions andcanons every where inform us. As for the priests, he prescribed to themalso a double degree of purity;f for he re­strained them in the foregoing instances, andalso forbade them to marry a harlot, a slave,or a captive, and such as got their living bycheating trades, and by keeping inns; as alsoa woman parted from her husband on anyoccasion whatsoever. Nay, he did not thinkit proper for the high-priest to marry even thewidow of one that was dead, though he al­lowed that to the priests; but he permittedhim only to marry a virgin, and to retain her;whence it is that the high-priest is not to ap­proach one that is dead,J although the restare not prohibited from coming near to theirbrethren, parents, or children, when they aredead, but they are to be unblemished in allrespects. He ordered that the priests, whohad any blemish, should have his portion in­deed among the priests; but he forbade himto ascend the altar, or to enter into the holyhouse. He also enjoined them not only toobserve purity in their sacred ministrations,but in their daily conversation, that it mightbe unblameable also; and on this account itis, that those who wear the sacerdotal gar­ments are without spot, and eminent for theirpurity and sobriety. Nor are they permittedto drink wine so long as they wear those gar-ments.|| Moreover, they offer sacrifices thatare entire, and have no defect whatever. Moses gave them all these presents, beingsuch as were observed during his own lifetime: but though they lived now in the wil­derness, yet did he make provision how theymight observe the same laws when they shouldhave taken the land of Canaan. He gave thenrest to the land from ploughing and plantingevery seventh year, as he had prescribed tothem to rest from working every seventh day,and ordered that then what grew of its ownaccord out of the earth should in commonbelong to all that pleased to use it, makingno distinction in that respect between theirown countrymen and foreigners; and he or­dained that they should do the same after t Levit. xxi. 11. 11 We must here note with Reland, that the preceptgiven to the priests of not drinking wine, while they worethe s'acred: garments, is equivalent to their abstinence fromit while they ministered in the temple, because they thsnonly wore those sacred garments, which were laid upthere from one time of ministration to another.