OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303 of bis eyes, and reduced by envy to beg his bread,"Give a penny to Belisarius the general!" is a fictionof later times,2 which has obtained credit, or ratherfavour, as a strange example of the vicissitude of for­tune.* If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Belisarius, Death andhe enjoyed the base satisfaction only eight months, the of just?last period of a reign of thirty-eight, and a life of eighty- 56J.three years. It would be difficult to trace the character NoT-of a prince who is not the most conspicuous object ofhis own times: but the confessions of an enemy may bereceived as the safest evidence of his virtues. The re­semblance of Justinian to the bust of Domitian, is ma­liciously urged ;* with the acknowledgment, however, of• a well-proportioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and apleasing countenance. The emperor was easy of access,patient of hearing, courteous and affable in discourse, anda master of the angry passions, which rage with such de­structive violence in the breast of a despot. Procopiuspraises his temper to reproach him with calm and de­served in the fragment of John Malala, (torn. 2. p. 234—243.) and the exact Chroni­cle of Theophanes. (p. 194—204.) Cedrenus(Corapend. p. 387, 388.) and Zonaras,■(torn. 2.-Kb. 14. p. 69.) seem to hesitate between the obsolete troth and the growingfalsehood. z The sonrce of this idle fable may be derived from a miscellaneous work of Uintwelfth century, the Chiliads of John Tzetzes, a monk. (Basil. 1546. ad calcem Lyco-phront, Colon. Allobrog. 1614. in Corp. Poet. Graec.) He relates the blindness andbeggary of Belisarius in ten ml gar or political verses, (Chiliad 3. no. 88. 339—348.in Corp. Poet. Graso. torn. 2. p. 311.) EKTTWjLUt %v\tvot xpaTftiy i0M TO fjU\lM BfAlropioa oj3oXov Sort Tee orga-nXa-TH Ov tvvv (A/it l9e$t01i, affon/^Xoi 3* o $9«vo;.'This moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and manu­scripts of Greece; repeated before the end of the fifteenth century by Crinitus, Pon-tanus, and Volaterranus j attacked by Alciat, for the honour of tlis law; and defend­ed by Baronius (A. D. 461. no. 2, &c.) for the honour of the church. Yet Tzetzeshimself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose his sight, and thathe recovered his fame and fortunes. » The statue in the villa Borghese at Rome, in a silting posture, with an open hand,which is vulgarly given to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity to Augustusin the act of propitiating Nemesis. (Winkeluian, Hist, de l'Art. torn. 3. p. 266.) Exnocturno visa etiam stipem, quotanois, die certo, emendicabat a populo, cavam sna>num asses porrigentibus pncbens. (Sueton. in August, c. 91. with an excellent noteof Casaubon.) » The ritoor of Domitian is stigmatized, quaintly enough, by the pen of Tacitus;(in Vit. Agricol. c. 45.) and has been likewise noticed by the younger Pliny, (Pa-negyr. c. 48.) and Suetonius, (in Domitian. c. 18. and Casaubon ad looum.) Proco­pius (Anecdot. c. 8.) foolishly believes that only one bust of Domitian bad reachedthe sixth century,