OCR Output 432 FLAVIUS JOSEPH US [B. II. of many desperate distresses, and brought them home insafety. And certainly it was here necessary to travel overa country without .water, and full of sand, to overcome theirenemies, and, during these battles, to preserve their children,and their wives, and their prey; on all which occasions hebecame an excellent general of an army, and a most prudentcounsellor, and one that took the truest care of them all: hoalso so brought it about that the whole multitude dependedupon him. And while he had them always obedient to whathe enjoined, he made no manner of use of his authority forhis own private advantage, which is the usual time whengovernors gain great powers to themselves, and pave the wayfor tyranny, and accustom the multitude to live very dis足solutely : whereas, when our legislator was in so great au足thority, he, on the contrary, thought he ought to have regardto piety, and to show his great good-will to the people; andby this means he thought he might show the great degree ofvirtue that was in him, and might procure the most lastingsecurity to those who had made him their governor. Whenhe had, therefore, come to such a good resolution, and hadperformed such wonderful exploits, we had just reason tolook upon ourselves as having him for a divine governor andcounsellor. And when he had first persuaded himself thathis actions and designs were agreeable to God's will, hethought it his duty to imprint above all things that notionupon the multitude; for those who have once believed that 1 This language, that Moses r.imai lamr, persuaded himself that what hedid was according to God's will, can mean no more by Josephus's own con足stant notions elsewhere, than that he was firmly persuaded, that he had fullysatisfied himself that so it was, vfc., by the many revelations he had receivedfrom God, and the numerous miracles God had enabled him to work, as hoboth in these very two books against Apion and in his Antiquities mostclearly and freouently assures us. This is farther evident from several pas足sages lower, where he affirms that Moses was no impostor nor deceiver, andwhero ho assures us that Moses's constitution of government was no otherthan a Theocracy ; and where he says, they are to hope for deliverance outof their distresses by prayer to God, and that withal it was owing in partto this prophetic spirit of Moses, that the Jews expected a resurrection fromthe dead. See almost as strange a use of the like words xcia9uv roi- Gs6r, topersuade God. Antiq. B. vi. ch. v. sect. 0.