OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. you not already the worst of slaves, the slave of the vilenation of the Moors? Would it not be preferable to sustainat Constantinople a life of poverty and servitude ratherthan to reign the undoubted monarch of the mountainof Papua? Do you think it a disgrace to be the subjectof Justinian? Belisarius is his subject; and we ourselves,whose birth is not inferior to your own, are not ashamedof our obedience to the Roman emperor. That gene­rous prince will grant you a rich inheritance of lands, aplace in the senate, and the dignity of patrician: suchare his gracious intentions, and you may depend withfull assurance on the word of Belisarius. So long asHeaven has condemned us to suffer, patience is a virtue;but if we reject the proffered deliverance, it degene­rates into blind and stupid despair."—" I am not insen­sible (replied the king of the Vandals) how kind and ra­tional is your advice. But I cannot persuade myself tobecome the slave of an unjust enemy, who has deservedmy implacable hatred. Him I had never injured eitherby word or deed; yet he has sent against me, I know notfrom whence, a certain Belisarius, who has cast me head­long from the throne into this abyss of misery. Justi­nian is a man; he is a prince; does he not dread forhimself a similar reverse of fortune; I can write no more:my grief oppresses me. Send me, I beseech you, mydear Pharas, send me, a lyre,g a sponge, and a loaf ofbread." From the Vandal messenger, Pharas was in­formed of the motives of this singular request. It waslong since the king of Africa had tasted bread; a de-fluxion had fallen on his eyes, the effect of fatigue or in­cessant weeping; and he wished to solace the melancholyhours, by singing to the lyre the sad story of his ownmisfortunes. The humanity of Pharas was moved; hesent the three extraordinary gifts; but even his human­ity prompted him to redouble the vigilance of his guard, s By Procopius it is stylod a lyre; perhaps harp would have been more national.The instruments of music are thus distinguished by Venanlius Fortunatus.—Human usque lyrt tibi plaudat, Barbaras harpd.