OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 267 eluded at a juncture wherein your affairs florish, andours are distressed, reflects splendor and dignity onyou who grant it: to ns who request it, it is rather ne­cessary than honorable. A certain peace is better andsafer than a victory in expectation: the former is inyour own disposal, the latter in that of the gods. Risknot, on the chance of one hour, the happy successes ofso many years. When you consider your own strength,recollect at the same time, the chances of war. Armsthere will be on both sides; but, on both sides, thebodies that contend will be but human. Events lesscorrespond to men's expectations in war, than in anyother case whatever. Even supposing that you shouldgain the victory in battle, the proportion of glory whichyou would thereby acquire, in addition to what yonmay now securely enjoy on granting peace, would boby no means commensurate to that which you must lose,should any misfortune happen to you. The chance ofbut a single hour may destroy at once both the honorswhich you have attained, and those for which you hope.In the adjusting of matters, every thing, Publius Scipio,will be in your own power; in the other case, you mustabide by the pleasure of the gods. Formerly, MarcusAtilius, in this same land, would have been celebratedamong the few most extraordinary examples of braveryand success, had he, when possessed of victory, grantedpeace to the request of our fathers; but by setting nobounds to his ambition, by laying no restraint on hispassions; in proportion to the height of glory to whichhe had attained, was his fall dishonorable. Certainlyit is his right who grants peace, not his who sues for it,to prescribe the terms; yet, perhaps, we might not bedeemed altogether inadequate to the estimation of whatdegree of punishment should be inflicted on us. Weare ready to give up to you the possession of all thoseplaces, on account of which the war was begun: Sicily,Sardinia, Spain, with all the islands that lie in anypart of the sea between Africa and Italy. Let us, Car­thaginians, confined within the shores of Africa, beholdyou, since such is the will of the gods, extending your