OCR Output JERUSALEM. 21 JERUSALEM. J. Tie Second Wall, and the Lower Citg.—Theaccount of the second wall in Josephus, is verymeagre. He merely says that it began at tbe GateGeunath, a place in the old wall; and, after en­compassing tbe Lower City, had its termination atthe Fortress Antonia." There is here no cine to the position of the GateGennath. It is, however, quite certain that it wasbetween the Hippie Tower and the Xystus: and thenorth-west angle of the Upper City was occupied bythe extensive palace of Herod the Great, and itsimposing towers stood on the north front of this oldwall, where a rocky crest rose to the height of 30cubits, which would of course preclude the possibilityof an exit from the city for some distance to the eastof tbe tower. Other incidental notices make it clearthat there was a considerable space between thet hird and the second wall at their southern quarter,comparatively free from buildings, and, consequently, aconsiderable part of the north wall of the Upper Cityunprotected by the second wall: — e.g. Cestius,baring taken the outer wall, encamped within theNew City, in front of the Royal Palace (B.J. ii. 19.§ 5); Titos attacked the outer wall in its southernpart, "both because it was lower there than else­where, inasmuch as this part of the New City wasthinly inhabited, and afforded an easy passage tothe third (or inmost) wall, through which Titushad hoped to tike the Upper City" (v. 6. § 2).Accordingly, when the legions had carried the outerand the second wall, a bank was raised against thenorthern wall of Sion at a pool called Amygdalon,and another about thirty cubits from it, at the high-priest's monument." The Almond Pool is no doubtidentical with the tank that still exists at no greatdistance from the modern fortress; and the monu­ment must, therefore, have been 6ome 50 feet tothe east of this, also in the angle formed by tbenorth wall of tbe Upper City and the southern partof tbe second wall. There is the head of an old archway still existingabove a heap of ruins, at a point about half waybetween the Hippie Tower and the north-west angleof Mount Sion, where a Blight depression in thathill brings it nearly to a level with the declivityto the north. This would afford a good starting-point for the second wall, traces of which may stillbe discovered in a line north of this, quite to theDamascus gate where are two chambers of ancientand very massive masonry, which appear to havehanked an old gate of the second wall at its weakestpart, where it crossed the valley of the Tyropoeon.from this gate, the second wall probably followedthe line of the present city wall to a point near theGate of Herod, now blocked up; whence it wascarried along the brow of the hill to the north-eastangle of the fortress Antonia, which occupied a con­siderable space on the.north-west of the Temple area,in connection with which it will be described below. 3. TU Third Wall, and the New City. — Thethird wall, which enclosed a very considerable spaceto the north of the old city, was the work of HerodA^ripps the Elder, and was only commenced aboutthirty years before the destruction of Jerusalem, andnever completed according to the original design, inconseqaence of tbe jealousy of the Roman govern­ment The following is Josephus's account: —"This third wall Agrippa drew round the super­added city, which was all exposed. It commencedat the Tower Hippicua, from whence it extended totie northern quarter, as far as the Tower Pscphinus; then, passing opposite to the Monuments of Helena,and being produced through the Royal Caves, itbent, at the angular tower, by the monument calledthe Fuller's, and, joining the old wall, terminated atthe valley of the Kedron." It was commenced withstones 20 cubits long and 10 wide, and was raisedby the Jews to the height of 26 cubits, with thebattlements. (1) As the site of the Hippie Tower has beenalready fixed, the first point to be noticed in thisthird wall is the Psephme Tower, which, Josephusinforms us, was the most wonderful part of thisgreat work, situated at its north-west quarter, overagainst Hippicus, octagonal in form, 70 cubits inheight, commanding a view of Arabia towards theeast, of the Mediterranean towards the west, and ofthe utmost limits of the Hebrew possessions. Thesite of this tower is still marked, by its massivefoundations, at the spot indicated in the plan; andconsiderable remains of the wall that connected itwith the Hippie Tower are to be traced along thebrow of the ridge that shuts in the upper [art ofthe valley of Hinnom, and almost in a line with themodern wall. At the highest point of that ridgethe octagonal ground-plan of the tower may be seen,and a large cistern in the midst of the ruins furtherconfirms their identity, as we are informed that thetowers were furnished with reservoirs for the rainwater. (2) The next point mentioned is the Monumentsof Helena, which, we are elsewhere told, were threepyramids, situated at a distance of 3 stadia fromthe city. (Ant. xx. 3. §3.) About a century later(a. d. 174) Pausanias speaks of the tomb of Helena,in the city of Solyma, as having a door so con­structed as to open by mechanical contrivance, at acertain hour, one day in the year. Being thusopened, it closes again of itself after a short in­terval; and, should you attempt to open it at anothertime, you would break the door before you could suc­ceed. (Paus. viii. 16.) The pyramids are next men­tioned by Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. ii. 12), as remark­able monumental pillars still shown in the suburbsof Jerusalem; and St. Jerome, a century later, tes­tified that they still stood. (Epist. ad Eustochium,Op. torn. iv. pars ii. p. 673.) The latest notice isthat of an Armenian writer in the 5th century, whodescribes the tomb as a remarkable monument beforethe gates of Jerusalem. (HisLArmen. lib. ii. cap. 32.)Notwithstanding these repeated notices of the sepul­chral monuments of the queen of Adiabene, it is notnow possible to fix their position with any degree ofcertainty, some archaeologists assigning them to theTomhs of the Kings (Robinson, Bib. Res. vol, i.pp. 465, 535—538), others to the Tombs of theMartyrs, about J of a mile to the west of theformer. (Schultz, Jerusalem, pp. 63—67; DoSaulcy, torn. ii. pp. 326, 327.) A point halfwaybetween these two monuments would seem to answerbetter to the incidental notices of the monuments,and they may with great probability be fixed to arocky court on the right of the road to NebiSamtcil,where there are several excavated tombs. Oppositethe Monuments of Helena was the Gate of theWomen in the third wall, which is mentioned morethan once, and must have been between tbe Nablusroad and the Psephine Tower. (3) The Koyal Caves is the next point men­tioned on the third wall. They are, donbtless, iden­tical with the remarkable and extensive excavationsstill called the Tombs of the Kings, most probably c 3