OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP, XL. saints: most of these churches were decorated with mar­ble and gold; and their various situation was skilfullychosen in a populous square, or a pleasant grove; onthe margin of the sea-shore, or on some lofty eminencewhich overlooked the continents of Europe and Asia.The church of the holy apostles at Constantinople, andthat of St. John at Ephesus, appear to have been framedon the same model: their domes aspired to imitate thecupolas of St. Sophia; but the altar was more judiciouslyplaced under the centre of the dome, at the junction offour stately porticoes, which more accurately expressedthe figure of the Greek cross. The virgin of Jerusalemmight exult in the temple erected by her imperial votaryon a most ungrateful spot, which afforded neither groundnor materials to the architect. A level was formed, byraising part of a deep valley to the height of a mountain.The stones of a neighbouring quarry were hewn into re­gular forms; each block was fixed on a peculiar carriage,drawn by forty of the strongest oxen, and the roadswere widened for the passage of such enormous weights.Lebanon furnished her loftiest cedars for the timbers ofthe church; and the seasonable discovery of a vein ofyed marble, supplied its beautiful columns, two of which,the supporters of the exterior portico, were esteemed thelargest in the world. The pious munificence of the em­peror was diffused over the holy land; and if reasonshould condemn the monasteries of both sexes whichwere built or restored by Justinian, yet charity must ap­plaud the wells which he sunk, and the hospitals whichhe founded, for the relief of the weary pilgrims. Theschi'smatical temper of Egypt was ill intitled to the royalbounty; but in Syria and Africa some remedies were ap­plied to the disasters of wars and earthquakes, and bothCarthage and Antioch, emerging from their ruins, mightrevere the name of their gracious benefactor.p Almostevery saint in the calendar acquired the honours of a P Justinian once gave forty-five centenaries of gold, (180,0001.) for the repaira ofAntinch after the earthquake, (John Maiala, tom, 2. p. 14ti—■ 149.)