OCR Output 46 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. They were of an unexpected and far from agreeable character.The Romans had resolved to cancel the unnatural and forced(ii. 278) inclusion of Sparta among the Achaean states, andgenerally to act with vigour against the Achaeana. Some 163. years before (591) they had been obliged to release fromtheir league the iEtolian town of Pleuron (ii. 279); nowthey were directed to renounce all the acquisitions whichthey had made since the second Macedonian war—viz.,Corinth, Orchomenus, Argos, Sparta in the Peloponnesus,and Heraelea near Oeta—and to reduce their league to thecondition in which it stood at the end of the Hannibalic war.When the Achaean deputies learned this, they rushed im­mediately to the market-place without even hearing theRomans to an end, and communicated the Roman demandsto the multitude; whereupon the governing and the go­verned rabble determined with one voice to arrest at oncethe whole Lacedaemonians present in Corinth, becauseSparta forsooth had brought on them this misfortune. Thearrest accordingly took place in the most tumultuary fashion,so that the possession of Laconian names or Laconianshoes appeared sufficient ground for imprisonment: in factthey even entered the dwellings of the Roman envoys toseize the Lacedaemonians who had taken shelter there, andsevere expressions were uttered against the Romans, althoughthey did not lay hands on their persons. The envoys re­turned home in indignation, and made bitter and evenexaggerated complaints in the senate; but the latter, withthe same moderation which marked all its measures againstthe Greeks, confined itself at first to representations. Inthe mildest form, and hardly mentioning satisfaction for theinsults which they had suffered, Sextus Julius Caesar re­peated the commands of the Romans at the diet in 2Egium 147. (sPring of 607). But the leaders of affairs in Achaia withthe new strategus Critolaus at their head (strategus from147-140. May 607 to May 608), as men versed in state affairs andfamiliar with political arts, merely drew from that fact theinference that the position of Rome with reference to Car­thage and Viriathus could not but be very unfavourable,and continued at once to cheat and to affront the Romans.Caesar was requested to arrange a conference of deputies ofthe contending parties at Tegea for the settlement of thequestion. He did so; but, after Caesar and the Lacedaemoniandeputies had waited there long in vain for the Achaean s, deputies I