OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 67 that of directly maintaining a fleet in these waters, and forthis the Roman government lacked energy and perseverance.So all things just remained on the old footing; the piraticfleet was the only considerable naval power in the Mediter­ranean; the capture of men was the only trade thatflourished there. The Roman government was an onlooker;but the Roman merchants, as the best customers in theslave market, kept up an active and friendly traffic with thepirate captains, as the most important wholesale dealers inthat commodity, at Delos and elsewhere. "We have followed the metamorphosis of the outward rela- General re-tions of Rome and the Romano-Hellenic world generally in suit,its leading outlines, from the battle of Pydna to the periodof the Gracchi, from the Tagus and the Bagradas to the Nileand the Euphrates. It was a great and difficult problemwhich Rome undertook, when she undertook to govern thisRomano-Hellenic world; it was not wholly misunderstood,but it was by no means solved. The untenableness of theidea of Cato's time—that the state should be limited toItaly, and that its rule beyond Italy should be only a pro­tectorate— was clearly discerned by the leading men ofthe following generation; and the necessity of substitutingfor this protectorate a direct sovereignty of Rome, that shouldpreserve the liberties of the communities, was probably re­cognized. But instead of carrying out this new arrangementfirmly, speedily, and uniformly, they annexed isolated pro­vinces just as convenience, caprice, collateral advantage, oraccident led them to do so; whereas the greater portion ofthe dependent states either remained in the intolerable un­certainty of their former position, or even, as was the casewith Syria especially, withdrew entirely from the influenceof Rome. And even the government itself degeneratedmore and more into a feeble and short-sighted selfishness.They were content with governing from one day to another,and barely transacting the current business as exigencyrequired. They were stern masters towards the weak.When the free city of Mylasa in Caria sent to PubliusCrassus, consul in 623, a beam for the construction of a 13).battering-ram different from what he had asked, the chiefmagistrate of the town was scourged for it; and Crassuswas not a bad man, and a strictly upright magistrate. Onthe tither hand sternness was wanting in those cases whereit would have been in place, as in the case of the barbarians