OCR Output CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 461 their country, they ought not to be a burthen upon thosewho were armed tor its preservation and might. soon bein want of provisions. .1 CHAP. XL. T7te deep distress which ensued from this battle. < .. N this manner did these old men, destined to death,encourage and console each other. Then addressingthemselves to the young men, and following them all theway to the citadel and capitol, pathetically recommended'To their bravery, and youthful vigour, the fortune of'what yet remained of a city, that in all its wars had'been victorious, for three hundred and sixty years.'But when the moment came that was to separate thechampions of the captive city from 'those who were de­termined not to survive its ruin, deep was the distresswhich that scene exhibited; and it was rendered stillmore afferting by the weeping and lamentations of thewomen, distractedly running they knew not whither,from their husbands to their sons, and from their sons totheir husbands, asking now these, now those, • whose« fate they should share.' In short, never was humanmisery represented in more lively colours. A great partof the women, however, followed their friends into thecitadel, who, though they were not invited, met with naopposition; because, of whatever consequence it mighthave bsen to the besieged, to have been freed from anuseless multitude, it was quite inconsistent with humani­ty to shut them out. The remaining multitude, consist­ing chiefly of the populace, too numerous to be lodgedin a fortress that stood on so small a hill, or to be main­tained there in so great a scarcity, left the city in crowds,and took their way in a body towards the Janiculum.From thence, they dispersed themselves partly about thecountry, and partly among the neighbouring cities, hav­ing neither leader to conduct them, nor any concertedscheme to follow, each of them following his own hopesand particular views, the public interest being now givenup for lost. In the mean time, the priests of Romulus, and the ves­tal-, dropping all concern about their private affairs, con-