OCR Output CHAP. LI. 363 Arabs had fixed themselves on the verge of the desert;and Hira was the seat of a race of kings who had em­braced the Christian religion, and reigned above sixhundred years under the shadow of the throne of Persia.qThe last of the Mondars was defeated and slain by Ca-led: his son was sent a captive to Medina; his noblesbowed before the successor of the prophet: the peoplewere tempted by the example and success of their coun­trymen: and the caliph accepted as the first-fruits offoreign conquest, an annual tribute of seventy thousandpieces of gold. The conquerors, and even their historians,were astonished by the dawn of their future greatness.In the same year (says Elmacin) Cakdfought many sig­nal battles; an immense multitude of the infidels wereslaughtered; and spoils, infinite and innumerable, wereacquired by the victorious Moslems.* But the invincibleC aled was soon transferred to the Syrian war: the invasionof the Persian frontier was conducted by less active or lessprudent commanders: the Saracens were repulsed withloss in the passage of the Euphrates; and, though theychastised the insolent pursuit of the Magians, their re­maining forces still hovered in the desert of Babylon. The indignation and fears of the Persians sus- Battleof j j f .1 • • . *• j. • • Cadesia, penoed tor a moment their intestine divisions.'By the unanimous sentence of the priests andnobles, their queen Arzema was deposed; the sixth ofthe transient usurpers, who had arisen and vanished inthree or four years, since the defeat of Chosroes and theretreat of Heraclius. Her tiara was placed on the headof Yezdegerd, the grandson of Chosroes; and the same q Pocock will explain the chronology, (Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 66. 74.) andd'Anville the'geography, (1'Euphrateet le Tigre, p. 125.) of the dynasty of the Al-mondars. The English scholar understood more Arabic than the mafti of Aleppo;(Ockley, vol. 2. p. 34.) the French geographer is equally at home in every age andevery climate of the world. •' Fecit et Chaled plurima in hoc anno proelia, in quihus urn.nut. Muslimi, et iufi-delium immen8& multitudine occisft spolia infinita et innumera sunt nacti. (Hist.Saracenica, p. 20.) The Christian annalist slides into the national and compen­dious term of infidels, and loften adopt (I hope without scandal) this characteristicmode of expression.