OCR Output NOTES ON THE strates: durfng the day, whoever pleased was at liberty to go andsatisfy his hunger. The natives of the place affirm, that the earthspontaneously produces all these viapds: this however is whatthey term the table of the Sun." I have given the passageas translated by Mr. Beloe. Page 99. Alias it so lofty, (sfc,"] The great height of themountain Atlas is very successfully employed by Proclus in Tim.p. 56, as an argument for the truth of that Platonic hypothesisconcerning the earth, which we have mentioned in a formernote. The passage in which he employs this argument is asfollows; "It is here requisite to remember the Platonic hypo­theses concerning the earth. For Plato does not measure itsmagnitude after the same manner as mathematicians; but thinks%hat its interval is much greater, as Socrates asserts in the Phaedo,In whieh dialogue also he fays, that there are many habitableparts similar to the places of our abode. And hence he relates,that an island and continent of this kind existed in the externalpr Atlantic sea. For indeed, if the earth be naturally spherical,it is necessary that it should be such according to its greatest part.But the parts which we inhabit, both internally and externally,exhibit great inequality. In some parts of the earth, therefore,there must be an expanded plain, and an interval extended onhigh. For, according to the faying of Heraclitus, he <wbopa/setthrough a very profound region will arrive at the Atlantic mountain,•whose magnitude is such, according to the relation of the ^Ethiopianhistorians, that it touches the tether, andcajls a shadow of Jive thou­sand Jladia in extent; for from the ninth hour of the day the fun itconcealed by it, even to his perfect demerfion under the earth. Noris this wonderful: for Athos, a Macedonian mountain, casts ashadow as far as to Lcmnos, which is distant from it sevenhundred stadia. Nor are such particulars as these, which Mar-cellus the Æthiopic historian mentions, related only concerningthe Atlantic mountain; but Ptolemy also fays that the Lunarmountains are of an immense height; and Aristotle, that Can-" casua,