OCR Output 146 LIVY. reans universally excel all others. Such a quantity,therefore, of stones was poured, like the thickest hailon the fleet as it approached the land that, not daringto enter the harbor, the Carthaginians tacked aboutto the main. They then passed over to the smaller ofthe Baleares, which is equally fertile in soil, though,as already noted, of lesser strength. Here they landed,and pitched their camp in a strong post, over the har­bor, taking possession of the city and country withouta contest. Then, having enlisted two thousand auxili­aries, and sent them to Carthage for the winter, theyhauled their ships on shore. After Mago had departedfrom the coast, the people of Gades surrendered to theRomans. 38. Such were the transactions in Spain under theconduct and command of Publius Scipio; who, havingcommitted the charge of the province to Lucius Lentu-lus and Lucius Manlius Audinus, returned to Romewith ten ships; and having obtained an audience ofthe senate in the temple of Bellona, without the city,made a recital of his services in Spain, how often hehad engaged the enemy in pitched battles, how manytowns he had taken, and what nations he had reducedunder the dominion of the Roman people; that 'hehad gone into Spain against four generals, and fourarmies, who were elated with victory; and that he hadnot left a Carthaginian in all that country.' On ac­count of these exploits, he rather made trial how farhe might hope for a triumph than pushed for it withany earnestness; because it was well known that noone had ever been honored with it for achievementsperformed, unless invested with a public office. Whenthe senate was dismissed he proceeded into the city,and carried before him to the treasury fourteen thou­sand three hundred and forty-two pounds weight ofsilver, and of coined silver a great sum. Lucius Ve-turius Philo then held the assembly for electing con­suls; and all the centuries, with extraordinary marksof attachment, named Publius Scipio consul. The col­league joined with him was Publius Licinius Crassus,