OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. retaliated and redoubled on the heads of the Persians. (1) The general who hadrestored Chosroes to the throne still commanded in the east: and the name of Nar-«es was the formidable sound with which the Assyrian mothers were accustomedto terrify their infants. It is not improbable, that a native subject of Persia shouldencourage his master and his friend to deliver and possess the provinces of Asia.It is still more probable, that Chosroes should animate his troops by the assurancethat the sword which they dreaded the most would remain in its scabbard, or bedrawn in their favour. The hero could not depend on the faith of a tyrant; andthe tyrant was conscious how little he deserved the obedience of a hero: Narseswas removed from his military command; he reared an independent standard atHierapolis in Syria: he was betrayed by fallacious promises, and burnt alive in themarket-place of Constantinople. Deprived of the only chief whom they couldfear or esteem, the bands which he had led to victory were twice broken by thecavalry, trampled by the elephants, and pierced by the arrows of the barbarians;and a great number of the captives were beheaded on the field of battle by thesentence of the victor, who might justly condemn these seditious mercenaries asthe authors or accomplices of the death of Maurice. Under the reign of Phocas,the fortifications of Merdin, Dara, Amida, and Edessa, were successively be­sieged, reduced and destroyed by the Persian monarch: he passed the Euphrates,occupied the Syrian cities, Hierapolis, Chalcis, and Berrhxa or Aleppo, and soonencompassed the walls of Antiocti with his irresistible arms. The rapid tide ofsuccess discloses the decay of the empire, the incapacity of Phocas, and the dis­affection of his subjects; and Chosroes provided a decent apology for their submis­sion or revolt by an impostor who attended his camp, as the son of Maurice,(2)and the lawful heir of the monarchy.- The first intelligence from the east which Heraclius received,(3) was that ofthe loss of Antioch; but the aged metropolis, so often overturned by earthquakesand pillaged by the enemy, could supply but a small and languid stream of trea­sure and Mood. The Persians were equally successful and more fortunate in thesack of Cxsarea, the capital of Cappadocia; and as they advanced beyond theramparts of the frontiers, the boundary of ancient war, they found a less obstinateresistance and a more plentiful harvest. The pleasant vale of Damascus has beenadorned in every age with a royal city: her obscure felicity has hitherto escapedthe historian of the Roman empire: but Chosroes reposed his troops in the para­dise of Damascus before he ascended the hills of Libanus, or invaded the citiesof the Phenician-coast. The conquest of Jerusalem, (4) which had been meditatedby Nushirvan, was achieved by the zeal and avarice of his grandson; the ruin ofthe proudest monument of Christianity was vehemently urged by the intolerantspirit of the Magi; and he could enlist, for this holy warfare, an army of six andtwenty thousand Jews, whose furious bigotry might compensate, in some degree,for the want of valour, and discipline. After the reduction of Galilee, and theregion beyond the Jordan, whose resistance appears to have delayed the fate ofthe capital, Jerusalem itself was taken by assault. The sepulchre of Christ, andthe stately churches of Helena and Constantine, were consumed, or at least da­maged, by the flames; the devout offerings of three hundred years were rifled inone sacrilegious day; the patriarch Zachariah, and the true cross, were transport­ed into Persia; and the massacre of ninety thousand Christians is imputed to theJews and Arabs who swelled the disorder of the Persian march. The fugitivesof Palestine were entertained at Alexandria by the charity of John the archbishop, (1) We mast now, for some apes, take our leave of cotemporary historians, and descend, if it be a descent,from the affectation of rhetoric, to the rude simplicity of chronicles and abridgments. Those of Theophanes(Chronograph, p. 244—279.( and Nicephorus, p. 316, supply a regular, but imperfect series of the Persianwar! and for any additional facts I quote my special authorities. Theophanes.a cotmier who became a monk,was born A. 1). 743; Nicephorus. patriarch of Constantinople, who died A. 1). 829, was somewhat younger:they both sutTered in the cause of images. Hankkis de Scriptorihus Ryzantinis, p. 200—246. (2) The Persian historians have been themselves deceived: but Theopbanes (p. 244.) accuses Chosroes ofthe fraud and falsehood; and Eutychius believes (Annal. torn. ii. p. 21 J.) thai (he son of Maurice, who wassaved from the assassins, lived and died a monk on mount Sinai. (3) Eutychius dates all the losses of the empire under the reign of Phocas, an error which saves the ho­nour of Heraclius, whom he brings not from Carthage, but Salonica, with a fleet laden with vegetables for therelief of Constantinople, f Anna?, torn. ii. p. 223, 2240 The other Christians of the east. Barhebraus, (apudAsseman. Bibliothec. Oriental, torn. iii. p. 412,413.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 13—16.) Abulpharagius. (Dy­nast, p. 98,99,) are more sincere and accurate. The years of the Persian war are disposed in the Chrono­logy of Pagi. (4) On the eonquest of Jerusalem, an event so interesting to the church, see the Annals of Eutychius, torn,ii. p. 212—223.) and the lamentations of the monk Antiochus, apud Baronium, Annal. Eccles. A. D. 614. No16—26.) whose one hundred and twenty-nine homilies are still extant, if what no one reads may be said to beextant