OCR Output 223 LYCUS. LYDIA. Wolf-river is plainly identical with the Dog-river ofthe present clay (XaAr-el-Kelb), about 2 hour* nortliof Beyrnt; which derives its name, says Maundrell,from an idol in the form of a dog or wolf, which wasworshipped, and is said to have pronounced oracles,at this place. It is remarkable lor an ancient via­duct cut in the face of a rocky promontory imme­diately on the south of the stream, the work ofAntoninus Pius, as a Latin inscription, copied byMaundrell, and still legible, records (Jourmy. March17, pp. 35—37). Cuneiform inscriptions and figuresresembling those found at Behiitun [Hauistam'sMoss] would seem to indicate that the Roman em­peror did but repair the work cf some Persian king.There are casts of the inscriptions and figures inthe British Museum. [G. \V. | LYCUS (Ai/kos), a river of Sarmat ia, w hich flowsthrough the country of the Thyssagetae, nnd dis­charges itself into the Pains Maeotis. (Herod, iv.1*24.) Herodotus was so much in error about theposition of the Maeotis, that it is difficult to makeout his geography here. The Lycus has been iden­tified with the Lauois of Pliny (vi. 7), or ther.ppcr course of the Volija. (Comp. Shafarik, Slav.All. vol. i. p. 499.) Iicnnell (Ueog. of Herod, vol.i. p. 119) supposes it may l»e the Mrdiwlitza.It must be distinguished from the Lycus of Ptolemy(iii. 5. § 13), which is the modern Knlmiiu. (Scha-farik, I c.) [K. B. J.] LYCUS (Awror, Ptol. t. 14. § 2), a river ofCyprus. W. of Anialhus. At a little distance inlandfrom Capo drlle Oatte [Cukias] are some saltmarshes, which receive an arm of a river correspond­ing with the Lycus of Ptolemy. (Kngel, A'>//>ra>,vol. i. 37.) [E.B. J.] LYDDA. [Diosrous.] LY'DI A(AvSia: Etk. AoSor. Lvdus), a country inthe western part of Asia Minor. Its boundariesvaried at different times. Originally it was a smallkingdom iu the east of the Ionian colonies; butduring the period of the Persian dominion it ex-tended to the south as far as the river Mueandcr,and, perhaps, even to Mount Messogis, whence somewriters speak of the Carian towns of Aromata,Tralles, Nysa, and Magnesia on the Maeander, asI.vdian towns, ami Strabo (xii. p. 577) mentionsthe Maeander as the frontier between Lydia andCaria. To the east it extended as far as the riverLycus, so as to embrace a portion of Phrygia. Inthe time of Croesus, the kingdom of Lydia embracedthe whole of Asia Minor between the Aegean andthe river Halys, with the exception of Cilicia andLycia. The limits of Lydia during the Komanperiod are more definitely fixed; for it bordered inthe north on Mysia, from which it was separatednear the coast by the river Hermus. and in theinland parts by the range of Mount Temuus; to theeast it bordered on Phrygia, and to the south onCaria, from which it was separated by Mount Mes­sogis. To the west it was washed by the Aegean(Plin. v. 30; Strab. L p. 58, ii. p. 130, xii.pp. 572, 577, fee), whence it is evident that item-braced the modern province of Saruk/tnn and thenorthern part of Sigkla. This extent of country,however, includes alvj Ionia, or the coast countrybetween the mouth of the lleruius and that of theMaeander, which was, properly speaking, no part ofLydia. [Ionia.] 1. Physical Feature* of Lydia.—In the southernand western juris Lydia was a monntainonv country,Leing bounded on the south by the Mmujoota, and traversed by the range of Tmoli-", which raceparallel to it, and includes the valley of the Cay-strus. In the western [arts we have, as continua­tions of Tmnlus, Mounts Dracob and OLrMif»iu the north of which 'rises Mount SlPTLL's. 11*extensive plains and valleys between these heigh'*are traversed in a western direction by tlie river*Caystris and Hkiuus, and their numerous tri­butaries. The whole country was one of the meatfertile in the world, even the sides of the moantameadmitting of cultivation ; ita climate was nuld audhealthy, though the country has at all times beenvisited by severe earthquakes. (Xenoph. Cyr"p.vi. 2. § 21; Strab. L p 58.) Its most importantproductions were an excellent kind of wine, saffron,and gold. The accounts of the ancients alsot tbequantity of gold found in Lydia, from which Crue-sus was believed to have derived his wealth, are nodoubt exaggerated, for iu later times the sand raTthe river Paclolus contained no gold at all, a:id tLeproceeds of the gold mines of Mount Tnmlus wereso small as scarcely to pay for the labour of workingthem. (Strab. xiii. p. 591.) The plains aboutthe Hermus and Caystrus were the most tntiiaparts of the country, if we except the coast diatnrtaof Ionia. The most celebrated of these plains atsivalleys bore distinct names, as ;he Ciibiaxia*, UseCayhtkian, the Hykcamax; and the Catack-cai'MKSK in the northeast. Some of these planaalso contained lakes of considerable extent, the moatimportant of which are the Gyuaka Lacra, onthe north of the Hermits, and some smaller ones inthe neighbourhood of L'phesus, which were parti­cularly rich in fish. The capital of the country atall times was Sunny. 2. Xantes and InitabitanU of the Country. — lathe Homeric ps-ms the names Lycia and Lyciane 0*not occur; but the people dwelling about Mount Ttrsdnaand Lake Gygaea, that is the country afterwards ralintLydia, bear the name Meones or Maeones (Mijurei,//.ii. 865, v. 43, x. 431), and are allied with the Tro­jans. The earliest author who mentions tbc nameLydians is the lyric poet Mitnncnnus (Fragm. 14.ed. Bergk), whose native city of Colophon was con­quered by the Lydians. Herodotus (i. 7) state*that the people originally railed Meones aftenrardaadopted the name of Lydians, from Lvdus the sod ofAtys; and he accordingly regard* Lydians andMeonians as the same people. But some of ti.eancients, as we learn from Strabo (xii. p 572. an.p. 679), considered them as two distinct races, — a#view which is unquestionably the correct ire. ar>lhas been adopted in modern times by Niebuhr andother inquirers. A change of name like that ofMaconians into Lydians alone suggests the idea i«fthe former people being either subdued or eipr.Wby the latter. When once the name Lydians hadbeen established, it was applied indiscriminately tothe nation that had been conquered by tbem at wsslas to the conquerors, and hence it happens that laterwriters use the name Lydians even when speak nagof a time when there were no Lydians in the ceaszt-try, but only Maconians. We shall first rndearmrto show who the Maconians were, and then prw«t4to the more difficult question about the I.ydiane a dthe time when they conquered the Mneoiiiatu. 1 !»•Maconians unquestionably belonged to the lr»v-Eurupran stock of nations, or that branch of thrawhich at generally called Tyrrhenian or Prbvcaa,for these latter "inliabited Lesbos before the tirrveatook possession of Uiose islands (Slrab. v. p. S31,