OCR Output ROMA ROMA. 735 pruhnble that Suburae may be the redundant word; unless indeed we might suppose that there were twoFagutals or groves of Jupiter, and that Suburae wasinserted here to define the place of the one whichoverhung it. Becker regards the Septimontium not as a propercity festival, but as commemorating traditions con­nected with the site of Rome long previous to thebuilding of the city. In confirmation of this herefers (Handb. p. 125) to a passage in Varro(L.L.v. § 41, MUU.) and to another in Festus(p. 321), where it is said that a people of Keate,called Sacrani, drove the Lignriaris and Sicilians outof Septimontium; and a third passage is adducedfrom Servius (ad A en. xi. 317) to prove that theSicilians once occupied the site of Rome; that theywere expelled thence by the Ligurians, and theLigurians in their turn by the Sacrani. Now,without entering into the historical questions con­nected with these obscure traditions, it may be al­lowed in general to be probable enough that suchtraditions were afloat; and when, as we have ven­tured to assume, Nnma instituted the festival, homade them the basis of it; just as he instituted theArgive chapels and the twenty-four mannikins tocommemorate the tradition of the Argive chiefs andtheir abolishment of human sacrifices. But the fes­tival, nevertheless, was a proper city festival. Beckerurges (Handb. p. 124) that the Septimontium de­scribed by Labeo could not have been in commemora­tion of a city union immediately preceding that ofServius, because it included the Oppins and Cispius,which were first added to the city by Servius. Agreat deal depends upon what we understand by thewords "added to the city " (" lur Studt geiogen").To say that they were not included in the wall andagger afterwards completed by Servius would be amere puerility; but they must have been inhabitedand formed part of the city before his time, sincethere were Argive chapels upon them (Varr. v.§ 50); and these chapels, as we have seen, formedthe basis of the city union formed by him. Thefestival must certainly have been pott-KomuItan,since some of the names of places where it was ce­lebrated were not known before the time of Romulus.Caelius occupied the Caelian hill in his reign;the name of Germalus is said to be derived fromthe twins (gennani) Romulus and Remus, who werelanded there (Varr. v. § 54); whilst Oppins andCispius are said by Festus (p. 348, MUII.). on theauthority of Varro, not to have been so named tillthe reign of Tullus Hostilius. But as they arementioned by those names in tho sacred books of'the Argives (Varr. v. § 50) it is probable thatthey were so called at least as early as the time ofNoma. Such, then, was the ancient Septimontium. Thewalls of Servius included a different group of sevenhills which came to be regarded by the later Romansas the real Septimontium. They are those alreadydescribed at the beginning of this article, namely,the Quirinnl, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, Aventinc,Capitoline, and Palatine. » bra on a Bright Servius bad occupied aM far from it, over the Clivus Urbiua.; Lit. L 48), and it was probably situated at orr spit now occupied by the church of S.■•m. There is not the slightest ground forin r • aaainptMn (UisL L 390) that the Fagu-na what be calls "the plain" between thebu iod Palatine. Tbe Cermalus or Germalusr uririaillT e ami g were the same letter—was,\ta Wlia, only adistinct portion of the Palatine{"Unic (Psiatio) Cermalum et Velias con-run," Varr. v. § 64, HUH.) Prellcr (/iegionen,*u) wonders the Germalus to be that side ofi'lUrine which overhangs the Velabrum betweentwkni churches of 5. Giorgio in Velabro andwrtuia; and it is not improbable, as Beckerruiw (p. 418), that the hill formerly projectedf :u tbe W. than it now does, and descendediii'ei or ledces. It does not appear on whatkii Virbuhr (/. c) assumed the Germalus to be(nt nr (Ae fuol of the Palatine.'' It containedLuptrcal, which, being a cave or grotto, must 1—ti eictrated in a bill or cliff, as indeed| "j •tatei in his description of it: fir li rb»», if Arjrmu tnrt\Kjcuov iiwb t£ \6<fia (i»> i fdaces, then, enumerated by Labeo appear•» *m heights, with the exception of tho Su-Boc on counting the names, we find that he*i orht places instead of seven, or one more * Twined to make a Septimontium. HenceA* (/*. p 389) omitted the Subura,— not,•". >rtnM it was situated in the plain,— and«V"w«d by Bonarn (BeacAr. L 141). who after-urrad his mind, and struc k out the Caelius * ^5): and this last opinion is also followed * (ffawjft. p. 124) and M tiller (ad Fat.I) The chief reason assigned for this view isi ]r.Kifki part of the first regio (Suburana)>■** CwUmootium.— a name afterwards pre- » Li.it at one of the regions of Augustus; tv-npving this name with that of Septimon-: ii inferred that, like tbe latter, it must have"• ifcrioct and independent city union, andk thtnfvf* have been included in any ante- * nja. But if there had been any distincttWndent township of this kind, we mustiai» heard of it in some of the ancient^ ft* do not know when the term Cntii-n riit came into use; but it is not improliablc w from another small hill, the Caelius * '-VUoror/i, having been annexed to the■ Martial mentions them both in tbe fol­ia* >- ban per Efnina te potentiorum Wstrix toga ventilat, vmgumque ■ajar Caelius et minor fatigaL*—(xii. 18.) * (ran Varro that the junction of these two1 '^kra place in or before his time: "Caeli-c Caalio aw conjunctum " (i. A. v. § 46, popular use, as we see from the lines * ometimea still continued to regard them'"• *» can we tell for what purpose they * iiUrd. Little can be inferred from tbe'hub the hills are mentioned in the texta, as lata] sequence is entirely disregarded; tilt drtu.-rntance that Cispius is called•>!0ppiia not,unless vre leave out "Caelio;"'■* mi viirm of Caelius in tow* of the MSS.ti Ii^ojous. On the whole it sceuis most IV. Progress of the City till the Time or Augustus. Having thus brought down the history of the cityto the foundation of the Servian walls, we shall pro­ceed to sketch its progress to the time of Augustus,und then till the walls of Aurelian. The former wallsmarked the rise and consolidation of a city, which,