OCR Output CHAP. LI. :J73 and imams was ennobled by the blood of their royalmothers.11 The After the fall of the Persian kingdom, the river quest of Oxus divided the territories of the Saracens andia^a?0* of the Turks. This narrow boundary was soonA-D.no. overleaped by the spirit of the Arabs: the go­vernors of Chorasan extended their successive inroads;and one of their triumphs was adorned with the buskinof a Turkish queen, which she dropped in her precipitateflight beyond the hills of Bochara/ But the final con­quest of Transoxiana," as well as of Spain, was reservedfor the glorious reign of the inactive Walid; and thename of Catibah, the camel driver, declares the originand merit of his successful lieutenant. While one of hiscolleagues displayed the first Mahometan banner on thebanks of the Indus, the spacious regions between theOxus, the Jaxartes, and the Caspian sea, were reducedby the arms of Catibah to the obedience of the prophet,and of the caliph.' A tribute of two millions of piecesof gold was imposed on the infidels; their idols wereburnt or broken: the Mussulman chief pronounced asermon in the new mosch of Carizme; after several bat­tles, the Turkish hordes were driven back to the desert;and the emperors of China solicited the friendship of i The two daughters of Yezdegerd married Hassan, the eon of Ali, and Mo­hammed, the son of Abubeker; and the first of these was the father of a numerousprogeny. The daughter of Phirouz became the wife of the caliph Walid, and theirson Yezid derived his genuine or fabulous descent from the Chosroes of Persia,the Caesars of Rome, and the Chagans of the Turks or Avars. (d'Herbelot, Bibliot.Orientale, p. 96. 487.) 'It was valued at two thousand pieces of gold, and was tin' prize of Obeidollah,the eon of Zivad, a name afterward infamous by the murder of Hosein. (Ockley'sHistory of the Saracens, vol. 2. p. 142,143.) His brother Salem was accompaniedby bis wife, the first Arabian woman (A. D. 680.) who passed the Oxus: sheborrowed, or rather stole, the crown and jewels of the princess of the Sogdians.(.231, 232.) • A part of Abulfeda's geography is translated by Greaves, inserted in Hudson'scollection of the minor geographers, (torn. 3.) and entitled, Descriptio Chorasmki:et Mawaralnahra, id est, regionum extra fluvium, (.Hum, p. 80. The name ofTratuoxiana, softer in sound, equivalent in sense, is aptly used by Petit de la Croix,(Hist, de Gengiscan, &c.) and some modern orientalists; but they are mistaken inascribing it to the writers of antiquity. 'The conquests of Catibah are faintly marked by Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p.84.) d'Herbelot, (Bibliot. Orient. Catbah,Samarcand,Valid) andde Outgoes.4e> Huns, torn. 1. p. 58, 59.)