OCR Output 532 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. thereby rendered the way safe for those thatcame after. And these called Herod theirsaviour and protector. And when he was near to Samosata, An­tony sent out his army in all their proper ha­biliments to meet him, in order to pay Herodthis respect; and because of the assistancehe had given him. For he had heard whatattacks the Barbarians had made upon himin Judea. He also was very glad to see himthere; as having been made acquainted withthe great actions he had performed upon theroad. So he entertained him very kindly,and could not but admire his courage. An­tony also embraced him, as soon as he sawhim, and saluted him after a most affectionatemanner, and gave him the upper hand, ashaving himself lately made him a king. Andin a little time Antiochus delivered up thefortress; and on that account this war was atan end. Then Antony committed the rest toSosius, and gave him orders to assist Herod,and went himself to Egypt. AccordinglySosius sent two legions before into Judea, tothe assistance of Herod; and he followed him­self with the body of the army. Now Joseph was already slain in Judea, inthe following manner. He forgot what chargehis brother Herod had given him, when hewent to Antony. And when he had pitchedhis camp among the mountains; (for Mache-ras had lent him five regiments;) he wenthastily to Jericho, in order to reap the cornthereto belonging. And as the Roman regi­ments were but newly raised, and were un­skilful in war; for they were in great partcollected out of Syria; he was attacked bythe enemy, and caught in those places of dif­ficulty; and was himself slain, as he wasfighting bravely: and the whole army waslost. For there were six regiments slain.So when Antigonus had got possession of thedead bodies, he cut off Joseph's head; al­though Pheroras, his brother, would have re­deemed it at the price of fifty talents. Afterthis defeat, the Galileans revolted from theircommanders, and took those of Herod's party,and drowned them in the lake: and a great partof Judea was become seditious. But Mache-ras fortified the place Gitta, in Samaria. At this time messengers came to Herod,and informed him of what had been done;and when he was come to Daphne by Antioch they told him of the ill fortune that had befal­len his brother. But this he had expected,from certain visions that appeared to him inhis dreams; which clearly foreshewed hisbrother's death. So he hastened his march;and when he came to mount Libanus, hereceived about eight hundred of the men ofthat place: having already with him also oneRoman legion: and with these he came toPtolemais. He also marched thence by nightwith his army, and proceeded along Galilee.Here it was that the enemy met him, andfought him, and were defeated, and shut up inthe same place of strength, whence they hadsallied out the day before. So he attackedthe place in the morning. But by reason of agreat storm that was then very violent, he wasable to do nothing; but drew off his army intothe neighbouring villages. Yet as soon as theother legion that Antony sent him was cometo his assistance, those that were in garrisonin the place were afraid; and deserted it inthe night time. Then did the king marchhastily to Jericho, intending to avenge himselfon the enemy, for the slaughter of liis brother.And when he had pitched his tents, he madea feast for the principal commanders; andafter this collation was over, and he had dis­missed his guests, he retired to his own cham­ber. And nere may one see what kindnessGod had for the king. For the upper partof the house fell down, when no body was init; and so killed none: insomuch that all thepeople believed that Herod was beloved ofGod; since he had escaped such a great andsurprising danger. But the next day six thousand of the enemycame down from the tops of the mountainsto fight the Romans; which greatly terrifiedthem. And the soldiers that were in lightarmour came near, and pelted the king'sguards that were come out, with darts andstones: and one of them struck him on theside with a dart. Antigonus also sent a com­mander against Samaria, whose name wasPappus, with some forces; being desirous toshew the enemy how potent he was; and thathe had men to spare in his war with them.He sat down to oppose Macheras. But He­rod, when he had taken five cities, took suchas were left in them, being about two thou­sand, and slew them, and burnt the citiesthemselves; and then returning to go against