OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. prince of the Lombards disdained the ancient glories of Milan; and Pavia, duringsome ages, was respected as the capital of the kingdom of Italy. (1) The reign of the founder was splendid and transient; and before he could regu­late his new conquests, Alboin fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and female re­venge. In a palace near Verona, which had not been erected for the barbarians,he feasted the companions of his arms; intoxication was the reward of valour, andthe king himself was tempted by appetite, or vanity, to exceed the ordinary mea­sure of his intemperance. After draining many capacious bowls of Rhxtian orFalernian wine he called for the skull of Cunipund, the noblest and most preciousornament of his sideboard. The cup of victory was accepted with horrid applauseby the circle of the Lombard chiefs. * " Fill it again with wine, (exclaimed theinhuman conqueror,) fill it to the brim; carry this goblet to the queen, and requestin my name that she would rejoice with her father." In an agony of grief andrage, Rosamond had strength to utter, Let the will of my Lord be obeyed! and,touching it with her lips, pronounced a silent imprecation, that the insult shouldbe washed away in the blood of Alboin. Some indulgence might be due to the re­sentment of a daughter, if she had not already violated the duties of a wife. Im­placable in her enmity, or inconstant in her love, the queen of Italy had stoopedfrom the throne to the arms of a subject, and Helmichis, the king's armour-bearer,was the secret minister of her pleasure and revenge. Against the proposal ofthe murder he could no longer urge the scruples of fidelity or gratitude; but Hel­michis trembled, when he revolved the, danger, as well as the guilt, when he re­collected the matchless strength and intrepidity of a warrior, whom he had so of­ten attended in the field of battle. He pressed and obtained that one of the bra­vest champions of the Lombards should be associated to the enterprise; but nomore than a promise of secrecy could be drawn from the gallant Peredeus; andthe mode of seduction employed by Rosamond betrays her shameless insensibilityboth, to honour and love. She supplied the place of one of her female attendants,who was beloved by Peredeus, and contrived some excuse for darkness and silenceytill she could inform her companion that he had enjoyed the queen of the Lom­bards, and that his own death, or the death of Alboin, must be the consequence ofsuch treasonable adultery. In this alternative, he chose rather to be the accomplicethan the victim of Rosamond,(2) whose Undaunted spirit was incapable of fear orremorse. She expected, and soon found, a favourable moment, when the king,oppressed with wine, had retired from the table to his afternoon slumbers. Hisfaithless spouse was anxious for his health and repose: the gates of the palacewere shut, the arms removed, the attendants dismissed, and Rosamond, after lull­ing him to rest by her tender caresses, unbolted the chamber-door, and urged thereluctant conspirators to the instant execution of the deed. On the first alarm,the warrior started from his couch; his sword, which he attempted to draw, hadbeen fastened to the scabbard by the hand of Rosamond; and a small stool, hisonly weapon, could not long protect him irom the spears of the assassins. Thedaughter of Cuniraund smiled in his fall: his body was buried under the staircaseof the palace, and the grateful posterity of the Lombards revered the tomb andthe memory of their victorious leader. The ambitious Rosamond aspired to reign in the name of her lover; the city andpalace of Verona were awed by her power, and a faithful band of her nativeGepida: was prepared to applaud the revenge, and to second the wishes of theirsovereign. But the Lombard chiefs, who fled in the first moments of consterna­tion and disorder, had resumed their courage and collected their powers; and thenation, instead of submitting to her reign, demanded with unanimous cries, thatjustice should be executed on the guilty spouse and the murderers of their king.She sought a refuge among the enemies of her country, and a criminal who de­served the abhorrence of mankind was protected by the selfish policy of the ex­arch. With her daughter, the heiress of the Lombard throne, her two lovers,her trusty Gepidse, and the spoils of the palace of Verona, Rosamond descendedthe Adige, and the Po, and was transported by a Greek vessel to the safe harbour■of Ravenna. Longinus beheld with delight the charms and the treasures of the (0 Tor the conniieit of Italy, see the original material, of Paul,(lib. ii. e. 7—10.12. 14. 25—27.) the elo­quent narrative of Suramin, (torn. ii. de Regno Italise, lib. i. p. 15—19.) and the correct and critical review orMuraturi,(Annali d'ltaliai, torn. v. p. 164—1800 (2) The classical reader will recollect the wife and murder of Candanles, so agreeably told in the first bookof Herodotus. The choice of Gyges, a*j)--iT»i «utoc jripiiiiw, may serve as the excuse of Peredeus; and finesoft insinuation of an odious Idea has been imitated by the best writers of antiquity. (GrseTitu, afl Ciceron.'Orat. pro Milone, e. 10.)