OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 99 Whereupon he rejoiced at this coincidence as to the death of Cai­ns, and admired God's providence, who without the least delay,and immediately, gave him a reward for the regard he had tothe temple, and the assistance he afforded the Jews for avoidingthe dangers they were in. And by this means Petronius. esca­ped that danger of death which he could not foresee. CHAP. IX. What lifel the Jews that were in Babylon, on occasion of Asineiii •and Atnleuif two brethren. $ 1. A very sad calamity now befel the Jews that were in-^Mesopotamia, and especially those'that dwelt in Baby­lonia. Inferior it was to none of the calamities which had gonebefore, and came together with a great slaughter of them, andthat greater than upon any record before ; concerning all which1 shall speak accurately, and shall explain the occasions whencethese miseries came upon them. There was a city in Babylo­nia called Neerda ; not only a very populous one, but one thathad a good and a large territory about it, and, besides its otheradvantages, full of men also. It was, besides, not easily to beassaulted by enemies, from the river Euphrates encompassing itnil round, and from the walls that were built about it. Iherewas also the city Nisibis, situate on the same current of the ri­ver. For which reason, the Jews, depending on the naturalstrength of these places, deposited in them that half shekel whichevery one, by the custom of our country, offers unto God, as wellas they did other things devoted to him, for they made use ofthese cities as a treasury, whence, at a proper time, they weretransmitted to Jerusalem ; and many ten thousand men.under­took the carriage of those donations, out of fear of the ravagesof the Parthians, to whom the Babylonians were then subject.Now, there were two men, Asineus and Anileus, of the cityNeerda by birth, and brethren to one another. They were des­titute of a father, and their mother put them to learn the art ofweaving curtains, it not being esteemed a disgrace among themfor men to be weavers of cloth. Now, he that taught them thatart, and was set over them, complained that they came too lateto their work, and punished them with stripes : but they tookthis just punishment as an affront, nnd carried oft" all the weaponswhich were kept in that house, which were not a few, and wentinto a certain place where was a partition of the rivers, and wasa place naturally very fit for the feeding of cattle, and for pre­serving such fruits as were usually laid up against winter. Thepoorest sort of the young men also resorted to them, whom they N 2 armed