OCR Output CHAP. LII. 511 Capitol was saved from the yoke of the prophet ofMecca. The same danger still impended on the headsof the Roman people: and their domestic force was un­equal to the assault of an African emir. They claimed theprotection of their Latin sovereign; but the Carlovin-gian standard was overthrown by a detachment of thebarbarians: they meditated the restoration of the Greekemperors; but the attempt was treasonable, and thesuccour remote and precarious/ Their distress appearedto receive some aggravation from the death of their spi­ritual and temporal chief; but the pressing emergencysuperseded the forms and intrigues of an election; andthe unanimous choice of pope Leo the Fourth' was thesafety of the church and city. This pontiff was bora aRoman; the courage of the first ages of the republicglowed in his breast; and, amidst the ruins of his coun­try, he stood erect, like one of the firm and lofty columnsthat rear their heads above the fragments of the RomanForum. The first days of his reign were consecrated tothe purification and removal of relics, to prayers andprocessions, and to all the solemn offices of religion,which served at least to heal the imagination, and re­store the hopes, of the multitude. The public defencehad been long neglected, not from the presumption ofpeace, but from the distress and poverty of the times.As far as the scantiness of his means and the shortnessof his leisure would allow, the ancient walls were re­paired by the command of Leo; fifteen towers, in themost accessible stations, were built or renewed; two ofthese commanded on either side of the Tyber; and an 'One of the most eminent Bomann (Gratiamis, magurtcr mil it u<n ct Romanipalatii superifita) was accused of declaring, Quia Franci mini nobis boni faciunt,Deque adjutorium prabent, sed magia quiu nostra sunt violentcr tollunu Quarenun advocamus Grscos, et cum eis foedus pacis componentes, Francorum regemct gentem de noatro regno et dominatione expeHimusP Anastasins in tieotre IV.p. 199. • Voltaire (Hist. Generate, torn. 2. c. 38. p. 124.) appears to be remarkablyStruck with the character of pope Leo IV. I hare borrowed his general expres­sion, but the sight of the Forum has furnished me with a more distinct and livelyimage. •