OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7 distant nations would throw off the unaccustomed yoke, when theywere no longer restrained by the powerful hand which had imposedit. It was an ancient tradition, that when the Capitol was founded by Resigned byone of the Roman kings, the god Terminus (who presided over Adrian,boundaries, and was represented according to the fashion of thatage by a large stone) alone, among all the inferiour deities, refusedto yield his place to Jupiter himself. A favourable inference wasdrawn from his obstinacy, which was imterpreted by the augurs, as asure presage that the boundaries of the Roman power would neverrecede **. Daring many ages, the prediction, as it is usual, con­tributed to its own accomplishment. But though Terminus hadresisted the majesty of Jupiter, he submitted to the authority of theemperor Hadrian15. The resignation of all the eastern conquestsof Trajan was the first measure of his reign. He restored to theParthians the election of an independent Sovereign, withdrew theRoman garrisons from the provinces of Armenia, Mesopotamia, andAssyria, and, in compliance with the precept of Augustus, oncemore established the Euphrates as the frontier of the empire *4.Censure, which arraigns the public actions and the private motivesof princes, has ascribed to envy, a conduct, which might be attri­buted to the prudence and moderation of Hadrian. The variouscharacter of that emperor, capable, by turns, of the meanest andthe most generous sentiments, may afford some colour to the sus­picion. It was, however, scarcely in his power to place thesuperiority of his predecessor in a more conspicuous light, than bythus confessing himself unequal to the task of defending the conquestsof Trajan. The martial and ambitious spirit of Trajan, formed a very sin- Contrast osgular contrast with the moderation of his successor. The restless Antoninus*activity of Hadrian was not less remarkable when compared with Plu''the gentle repose of Antoninus Pius. The life of the former was almost