OCR Output 336 ROMAN EMPIRE. Jesus, and Fatima, the best beloved of his daughters. Was she not old? (said Ayesha, with the insolence of ablooming beauty) has not God given you a better in herplace?—No, by God (said Mahomet, with an effusion ofhonest .gratitude), there never can be a better! she be­lieved in me, when men despised me: she relieved my wants,when I was poor and persecuted by the world.A In ^e largest indulgence of polygamy, thefounder of a religion and empire might aspire tomultiply the chances of a numerous posterity and a linealsuccession. The hopes of Mahomet were fatally disap­pointed. The virgin Ayesha, and his ten widows of ma­ture age and approved fertility, were barren in his potentembraces. The four sons of Cadijah died in their in­fancy. Mary, his Egyptian concubine, was endeared tohim by the birth of Ibrahim. At the end of fifteenmonths the prophet wept over his grave; but he sus­tained with firmness the raillery of his enemies, andchecked the adulation or credulity of the Moslems, bythe assurance that an eclipse of the sun was not occa­sioned by the death of the infant. Cadijah had likewisegiven him four daughters, who were married to the mostfaithful of his disciples: the three eldest died before theirfather; but Fatima, who possessed his confidence andlove, became the wife of her cousin Ali, and the motherof an illustrious progeny. The merit and misfortunes ofAli and his descendants will lead me to anticipate, in thisplace, the series of the Saracen caliphs, a title which de­scribes the commanders of the faithful as the vicars andsuccessors of the apostle of God.e The birth, the alliance, the character, of Ali, which * Abulfedain Vit. Moharn. p. 12,13. 16,17. cum notis Gagnier. e This outline of the Arabian history is drawn from the Bibliotheque Orientateof d'Herbelot; (under the names of Aboubecre, Omar, Olhman, Ati, &c.) from theAnnals of Abulfeda, Abulpharagius, and Elmacin (under the proper years of theHegira), and especially from Ockley's History of the Saracens (vol. 1. p. 1—10.Hi—122.229. l!49. 3<::3—o7t. 378—391. and almost the whole of the second vo­lume). Yet we should weigh with caution the traditions of the hostile sects; astream which becomes still more muddy as it flows farther from the source. SirJohn Chardin has too faithfullycopied the fables and errors of the modem Persians.(Voyages, torn. 2. p. 233—250, &c.)