OCR Output Chap. III. 165 AWfIQJJITIES OF THE Ir.WS. fuse to receive him again, but pleaded that it was not now intheir power so to do ; because they had committed the govern­ment to another person, who had accepted of it, and whose namewas Cinnamus, and that they were afraid lest a civil war should^rise on this account. When Cinnamus understood their inten­tions, he wrote to Artabanus himself, for he had been broughtup by him, and was of a nature good and gentle also, and de­sired him to put confidence in him, and to come and take hisown dominions again. Accordingly Artabanus trusted him, andreturned home ; when Cinnamus met him, worshipped him, andsaluted him as a king, and took the diadem off' his own head, andput it on the head of Artabanus. 3. -And thus was Artabanus restored to his kingdom again bythe means of Izates, when he had lost it by the means of thegrandees of the kingdom. Nor was he unmindful of the bene­fits he had conferred upon him, but rewarded him with such ho­nours as were of greatest esteem among them ; for he gave himleave to wear his tiara upright *, and to sleep upon a goldenbed, which are privileges and marks of honour peculiar to thekings of Parthia. He also cut off a large and fruitful countryfrom the king of Armenia, and bestowed it upon him. The nameof the country is Nisibis, wherein the Macedonians had formerlybuilt that city which they called' Antioch of Mygdonia. Andthese were the honours that were paid Izates by the king of theParthians. 4. But in no long time, Artabanus died, and left his kingdom£o his son Bardanes. Now this Bardanes came to Izates, andwould have persuaded him to join him with his army, and to as­sist him in the war he was preparing to make with the Romans ;but he could not prevail with him. For Izates so well knewthe strength and good fortune of the Romans, that he took Bar­danes to attempt what was impossible to be done ; and havingbesides sent his sons, five in number, and they but young also,to learn accurately the language of our nation, together with ourlearning, as well as he had sent his mother to worship at ourtemple, as I have said already, was the more backward to a com­pliance ; and restrained Bardanes, telling him perpetually of thegreat armies and famous actions of the Romans, and thoughtthereby to terrify him, and desired thereby to hinder him fromthat expedition. But the Parthian king was provoked at thishis behaviour, and denounced war immediately against Izates.Yet did he gain no advantage by this war, because God cut offall his hopes therein ; for the Parthians, perceiving Bardanes's intentions, * This privilege of -wearing the tiara upright, or with the tip of the coneerect, is known to have been of old peculiar to (great) kings, from Xenophonand others, as Dr. Hudson obsei ve» here.