OCR Output 92 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. on the sides and behind, within one cubit ofthe ground. There were other curtains ofthe same breadth with these, but one more innumber, and longer; for they were thirty cu­bits long: these were woven of hair, andwere extended loosely down to the ground,appearing like a triangular front and elevationat the gates; the eleventh curtain being usedfor this very purpose. There were also othercurtains made of skins above these, whichafforded covering and protection to thosethat were woven, both in hot weather andwhen it rained. And great was the surpriseof those who viewed these curtains at a dis­tance; for they seemed not at all to differfrom the colour of the sky. But those thatwere made of hair, and of skins, reacheddown in the same manner as did the veil atthe gates, and kept off the rain, and heat ofthe sun: and after this manner was the taber­nacle reared. There was also an ark* made, sacred toGod, of wood that was naturally strong, andcould not be corrupted. This was calledEron, in our own language. Its constructionwas thus; its length was five spans,f but itsbreadth and height was each of them threespans. It was covered with gold, both withinand without: so that the wooden part wasnot seen. It had also a cover united to it, bygolden hinges, after a wonderful manner: which cover was every way evenly fitted toit, and had no eminences to hinder its exactconjunction. There were also two goldenrings, belonging to each of the longer boards,and passing through the entire wood; andthrough them gilded bars passed along eachboard; that it might thereby be moved, andcarried about as occasion should require; forit was not drawn in a cart by yokes of kine,but borne on the shoulders of the priests.Upon this cover were two images, calledcherubim. They are flying creatures, buttheir form is not like to that of any of thecreatures which men have seen; though Mo­ses said he had seen such beings near thethrone of God. In this ark he put the twotables whereon the Ten Commandments werewritten; five upon each table; and two and ahalf upon each side of them: and this ark heplaced in the most holy place. In the holy place he placed a table likethose at Delphi. Its length was two cubits,its breadth one cubit, and its height threespans. It had feet also, the lower half ofwhich were complete feet, resembling thosewhich the Dorians put to their bedsteads;but the upper parts towards the table werewrought into a square form. The table hada hollow towards every side, having a ledgeof four fingers depth, that went round about,like a spiral; both on the upper and lower -. * We meet with imitations of this divinely institutedemblem among several heathen nations, both in ancient andmodern times. Thus Tacitus (de Mor. German, cap. 40.)informs us, that " the inhabitants of the north of Germany,our Saxon ancestors, in general worshipped Herthum,that is, the mother earth, and believed her to interpose inthe affairs of men, and to visit nations; that to her, withina sacred grove, in a certain island of the ocean, a vehicle,covered with a vestment, was consecrated, and allowed tobe touched by the priest alone, who perceived when thegoddess entered into this her sacred place, and with pro­found veneration attended her vehicle, which was drawnby cows. While the goddess was on her progress, days ofrejoicing were kept at every place which she vouchsafedto visit. They engaged in no war, they meddled not witharms, they locked up their weapons: peace and quiet­ness only were then known, these only relished, till thegame priest reconducted the goddess, satiated with the con­versation of mortals, to her temple." Among the Mexicans, Vitziputzli, their supreme god,was represented in a human shape, sitting on a throne,supported by an azure globe, which they called heaven.Four poles or sticks came out from two sides of thisglobe, at the ends of which serpents' heads were carved,the whole making a litter, which the priests carried ontheir shoulders whenever the idol was shewn in public.Picart's Ceremonies, vol. iii. p. 146. In Lieutenant Cook's voyage round the world, published by Dr. Hawksworth, vol. ii. p. 252, we find thatthe inhabitants of Huaheine, one of the islands lately dis­covered in the South Sea, had " a kind of chest or ark, thelid of which was nicely sewed on, and thatched very neatlywith palm-nut leaves. It was fixed upon two poles, andsupported upon little arches of wood, very neatly carved:the use of the poles seemed to be to remove it from placeto place in the manner of our sedan chair: in one end ofit was a square hole, in the middle of which was a ringtouching the sides, and leaving the angles open, so as toform a round hole within, a square one without. Thefirst time Mr. Banks saw this coffer, the aperture at theend was stopped with a piece of cloth, which, lest heshould give offence, he left untouched. Probably therewas then something within: but now the cloth was takenaway; and upon lookipg into it, it was found empty. Thegeneral resemblance between this repository, and the arkof the Lord among the Jews, is remarkable: but it isstill more remarkable, that upon enquiring of the boywhat it was called, he said Ewharra no Eautau, the houseof God; he could, however, giye no. account of its sig­nification or use." Parkhurst's Heb. Lex. p. 690, 4thedit. 8. t A cubit was about twenty-one inches; and a spanhalf a cubit. ;,