OCR Output SPARTA. 1099 SPARTA. ri the temple of Hera Aegophagns. Heirii Mams to the theatre, and mentions thed ——h in its neighbourhood; amongttn a temple of Poseidon Genethlias, heroa■iirta and Oebalus, a temple of Asclcpius,kr bVoneta, the most celebrated of all the14 tfaii god in Sparta, with the heroum ofb * its left; on a height not far distant, anl tenpie of Aphrodite armed, upon an upperf which wis a second temple of Aphroditei; sl hs neighbourhood was a temple of HUud I'boebe, containing their statues, and antir:i«i fW*n the roof, said to have been thatl faosanias next mentions a house, named, ia which was woven the robe for the Amy-Aplk; and on the way towards the citylit heroa of Cbeilon and Athenaeus. Nearn.-i w« the hou.se of Phormion, who hospi-ceruined the Dioscuri when they entered the*tm£ot (Pans, iii 15.§6—16.§4.) From.'. M we may suppose that the Amyclaeanawd from this gate, and it may therefore bea the •outbern part of the city. Iu that« 6«i4e temple of Aphrodite probably stood■t of tb» heights of New Sparta.m*i Bcxt mentions a temple of Lycurgus;fi tie tomb of his son Eucoamus, and an altarkra ted Alexandra: opposite the temple were ■ fa "f Theopompus and Eurybiades, and thei rf Artrabacus. In the place called Lim- ""d the temples of Artemis Orthia andTu< temple of Artemis Orthia was, as weI"*ly retnarked, the common place of meeting£«r Tillages of Pitane, Mcsoa, Cynosura, andl (Paas.iil 16. § 6,seq.) Limnae was partlyn*j»ad partly in the suburbs. Its positionX of the DromuB has been mentioned above;u emendation in a passage of Strabo be cor-»1» included a district on the left bank of thefc in the direction of Mt Thornax (to Aifivcuov[B^m]ira, Meineke's emendation instead£«. Strab. viii. p. 364).t-awt ancient topographical information re-C Sparta is contained in the answer of the*■ *vle to Lycurgus. The oracle is reported * Arreted the lawgiver to erect temples to*1 A'hena, and to fix the seat of the senaterf> tKween the Babyca and Cnacion. (Plat■> These names were obsolete in the time ofda He says that the Cnacion was the Oenus,r a tl'fma; and he also appears to have cou-I Babyca a river, though the text is not ■ tiisl case the Babyca must be the Trypio-i*h forms the southern boundary of the city. however, from the same passage of Plu-'-'u*. Aristotle regarded the Babyca as a bridge,*! the Cnacion as a river; whence he would■* Utb given the name of Cnacion to the Try->. ■■aA that of Babyca to the bridge over the ft. Wk, or eastern bank of the Eurotas, was not*1 lay part of Sparta. When Epaminondasd Lscoaia in b. a 370 he marched down the^ «f the Eurotas till he reached the foot of the which led through the hollow way into the city. * 'itd not attempt to force the passage across""ta; and be saw on the other side a body of drawn up in the temple of AthenaHe therefore continued his march along the•flfc of the river till he arrived opposite toae, where he crossed the river. (Xen. HtlL vi. 5. § 27.) The account of Xenophon illustratesa passage of Pausamas. The latter writer, in de­scribing (iii. 19. § 7) the road to Therapne, men­tions a statue of Athena Alea as standing betweenthe city and a temple of Zeus Plusius, above theright bank of the Eurotas, at the point where theriver was crossed; and as only one bridge across theEurotas is mentioned by ancient writers, there canbe no doubt that the road to Therapne crossed thebridge which Xenophon speaks of, and the remainsof which are still extant. Therapne stood uponthe Menelaium or Mount Menelaius, which roseabruptly from the left hand of the river opposite thesouth-eastern extremity of Spnrta. (M(vt\&ovtPolyb. v. 22; M*t't-\d*.t>i\ Steph. B. *. v; Mene­laius Moris, Liv. xxxiv. 28.) The Menelaium hasbeen compared to the Janicnlum of Rome, and risesabout 760 feet above the Eumtas. It derived itsname from a temple of Menelaus, containing thetombs of Menelaus and Helen, whither solemn pro­cessions of men and women were accustomed to re­pair, the men imploring Menelaus to grant thembravery and success in war, the women invokingHelen to bestow beauty upon them and their chil­dren. (Paus. iii. 19. § 9; Herod, vi. 61; Isocr.Encom. Hel. 17; Hesych. 9. v. 'EAeVia, &tpairva-rfSia.) The foundations of this temple were dis­covered in 1834 by Ross, who found amongst theruins several small figures in clay, representing menin military costume and women in long robes, pro­bably dedicatory offerings made by the poorer claspsto Menelaus and Helen. (Ross, Wanderungen inGriechenland, vol. ii. p. 13, scq.) The temple ofMenelaus is expressly said to have been situated inThkbapne (0ep<£w*% ©epetwfeu; Theramne, Plin.iv. 5. s. 8), which was one of the most ancient andvenerable places in the middle valley of the Eurotas.It was said to have derived its name from a daughterof Lclex (Paus. iii. 19. § 9), and was the Achaeancitadel of the district It is described by the poetsas the lofty well-towered Therapne, surrounded bythick woods (Pind. hthm. i. 31; Coluth. 225),where slept the Dioscuri, the guardians of Sparta.(Pind. Aem, x. 55.) Here was the fountain ofMesseis, the water of which the captive women li.nlto carry (Paus. iii. 20. § 1; Horn. II. vi. 457); andit was probably upon this height that the temple ofMenelaus stood, which excited the astonishment ofTelemachus in the Odyssey. Hence Therapne iss-aidto have been in Sparta, or is mentioned as t-y-nonymous with Sparta. (©epoWat, *6\is Aaw* vmii,V rives irrapTTj* <paffiv, Steph. II. *. r.: iv 2*cfpTT;,Schol. ad Apoll. Rhwl ii. 162, Pind. hthm. i. 31.)It is probable that further excavations upon thisspot would bring to light some tombs of the heroicages. The Phoebaeum, which has been alreadydescribed as the open space on the right bank ofthe Eurotas [see p. 1028, b.], contained a temple ofthe Dioscuri. Not far from this place was thetemple of Poseidon, turnamed Gaeaochus. (Paus. iii.20. § 2.) Alter the power of Sparta was destroyed by thebattle of Leuctra, its territory was exposed to inva­sion and tho city to attack. The first time that anenemy appeared before Sparta was when Ej*nii-nondas invaded Laconia in b. C. 390, as already re­lated. After crossing the river opposite Amyclae. hemarched against the city. His cavalry advance i jihfar as tho temple of Poseidon Gaeaochus, which wehave seen from Pausanias was in the Phoebaeum. Wealso learn from Xenophon that the Hippodn me Vat 3 v 3