OCR Output SELINUS. SELINUS. 957 Iiumtino by ceding without farther contest thetitier district which had been the original sub-.1 • dispute. Bat the Selinantine9 were notnsfai with this concession, and continued to pressm with fresh aggressions, for protection againstikh they tonght assistance from Cartilage. Thisli, after some hesitation, accorded them, and aail force sent over at once, with the assistance ofurh the Segeatauia were able- to defeat the Selinun-m m a battle. (Diod. xiii. 43, 44.) But notBut with this, the Carthaginians in the followingmg (a. c 409) sent over a vast army amounting,ifdng to the lowest estimate, to 100,000 men,la which Hannibal (the grandson of Hamilcart was killed at Himera) landed at Lilybieurn,I from thence marched direct to Selinus. Theiauntinea were wholly unprepared to resist suchwre; to little indeed had they expected it that fartiScaticos of their city were in many places •i repair, and the auxiliary force which had beeneiwd by Syracuse as well as by AgrigentumI Gelt, was not yet ready, and did not arrive ina The Selinuntines. indeed, defended themselvesfa the courage of despair, and even after theh were carried, continued the contest from■e to house; but the overwhelming numberstkr enemy rendered all resistance hopeless: andr a siege of only ten days the city was tuken, the greater part of the defenders put to theri Of the citiien* of Selinus we are told thatDOO were slain. 5000 made prisoners, and 2600rr the command of Empcdion escaped to Agri-raa. (Diod. xiii- 54—59.) Shortly after Han-i destroyed the walls of the city, but gavelission to the suniving inhabitants to return ertupy it, as tributaries of Carthage, an nr-lenrnt which was confirmed by the treaty sub-aatly concluded between Dionysiua and theJuginiana, in B. c. 405. (Id. xiii. 59, 111 )at interral a considerable numlier of the survi- and fugitives had been brought together bynarrates, and established within its walls, (/i.I brre can be no doubt that a considerable part ofrr!tiros of Selinus availed themselves of thisMi on. and that the city continued to subsistr the Carthaginian dominion; but a fatal blowtrr. given to its prosperity, which it undoubtedly'reciTered. The Selinuntines are again men-J it B. c 397 as declaring in favour of Dio-■ during his) war with Carthage (Diod. xiv. but both the city and territory were againi ap to the Carthaginians by the peace of(Id. XT. 17): »nd though Dionysiua recovered■u of it by arms shortly before his death XT. 73), it is probable that it soon againi under the dominion of Carthage. The 11a-, which was established as the eastern boun-• f the Carthaginian dominion in Sicily by the''if 383, seems to have generally continued'w> recognised, notwithstanding temporary in-ataett; and was again fixed as their limit byrcaiy with AgauWles in B. c. 314. (Id. xix. "1 hit last treaty expressly stipulated that Se-, »« well as Heracleia and Hiincra, should con- | ■object to Carthage, as btfort. In n. c. 27G,•er. daring the expedition of Pyrrhus to Sicily,: ratines voluntarily submitted to thatnh, after the capture of Heracleia (Id. xxii.Dr. B. p. 498.) During the First l'unicws again find Selinus subject to Carthage, and its territory was repeatedly the theatre of militaryoperations between the contending powers. (Id. xxiii. I, 21; Pol. i. 39.) But before the close ofthe war (about B.C. 250), when the Carthaginianswere beginning to contract their operations, andconfine themselves to the defence of as few pointsas possible, they removed all the inhabitants ofSelinus to Lilybaeum and destroyed the city. (Diod. xxiv. 1. Exc. 'll. p. 506.) It seems certain that it was never rebuilt. Plinyindeed, mentions its name ("Selinus oppidum," iii 8.s. 14), as if it was still existing as a town in histime, but Strabo distinctly classes it with the citieswhich were wholly extinct; and Ptolemy, thoughhe mentions the river Selinus, has no notice of atown of the name. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Ptol. iii. 4.§ 5.) The Thermae Selinustiae, which de­rived their name from the ancient city, and seem tohave been much frequented in the time of the Ro­mans, were situated at a considerable distance fromSelinus, being undoubtedly the same as those nowexisting at Sciacca: they are sulphureous springs,still much valued for their medical properties, anddedicated, like most thermal waters in Sicily, toSt. Calogero. At a later period they were calledthe Aquae Labodes or Larodes, under which namethey appear in the Itineraries, (/fin. Ant. p. 89;7Vi6. Peut.) They are there placed 40 miles \V. ofAgrigentum, and 46 from Lilybaeum; distanceswhich agree well with the position of Sciacca. Thisis distant about 20 miles to the E. of the ruins ofSelinus. The site of the ancient city is now wholly deso­late, with the exception of a solitary guardhouse, andthe ground is for the most part thickly overgrownwith shrubs and low brushwood; but the remains ofthe nails can be distinctly traced throughout agreat part of their circuit. They occupied thesummit of a low hill, directly abutting on the sea,and bounded on the W. by tho marshy valleythrough which flows the river Matimm, the ancientSelinus; on the E. by a smaller valley or depression,also traversed by a small marshy stream, whichseparates it from a hill of similar character, wherethe remains of the principal temples are still visible.The space enclosed by the existing walls is of smallextent, so that it is probable the city in the days ofits greatness must have covered a considerable areawithout them; and it has been supposed by somewriters that the present line of walls is that erectedby Hermocrates when he restored the city after itsdestruction by the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 63.)No trace is, however, found of a more extensivecircuit, though the remains of two lines of wall,evidently connected with the port, are found in thesmall valley E. of the city. Within the area sur­rounded by the walls are the remains of threetemples, all of the Doric order, and of an ancientstyle; none of them are standing, but the founda­tions of them all remain, together with numerousportions of columns and other architectural frag­ments, sufficient to enable us to restore the plan anddesign of all three without difficulty. The largestof them (marked C. on the plan) is 230 feet lungby 85 feet broad, and has 6 columns in front and18 in length, a very unusual proportion. All theseare hexastyle and peripteral. Besides these threetemples there is a small temple or Aedicula (markedIt ), of a different plan, but also of the Doric order.No other remains of buildings, beyond mere frag­ment! and foundations, can be traced within the