OCR Output B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 3t rinthians and Athenians, without any solemn ratifi­cation. This same summer, the Lacedæmonians took thefield with their whole united force, under the commandof Pleistionax, the son of Pausaoias, king of the Lace­dæmonians, and marched to the Parrhasians of Arcadia.These were subject to the Mantineans, and, in conse­quence of a sedition, had invited this expedition. Butit was also designed, if possible, to demolish the fortressof Cypscla, which the Mantineans had erected; and, asit was situated in Parrhasia, towards the Skiritis of La-conia, had placed a garrison imit. The Lacedæmo­nians, therefore, ravaged the terricory of the Parrhasi­ans. But the Mantineans, leaving their own city to theguard of the Argives, marched themselves to the sup­port of their dependents. But, finding it impossible topreserve the fortress of Cypscla and the cities of the Par­rhasians, they retired. The Lacedæmonians also, whenthey had set the Parrhasians ac liberty, and demolishedthe fortress, withdrew their forces. . . The same summer also, upon the return from- Thraceof those soldiers who had served under Brasidas, andwho came home after the peace under the conduct ot"Clearidas, the Lacedæmonians decreed "those Helots,"who had served under Brasidas, to be free, and to*' have permission to reside wherever they pleased.'*And, no long time after, they placed them, togetherwith such persons as were newly enfranchised, at Lepre-um: It is situated between Laconia and Elea; and- theywere now at variance with the Eleans. As for thoieSpartans who had been made prisoners in Sphacteria, andhad delivered up their arms, conceiving some fears aboutthem, left, should they lay their late disgrace too muchto heart, as they were persons of the greatest rank, theymight introduce some innovations in the State, they de­clared them infamous, even though some of the numberwere, at this time, possessed of posts in the government.But this infamy extended no farther than to disqualify them