OCR Output 294 [tiO'Ott VFtt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. things; and was very diligent and studiousto have things done after an elegant manner.So he did not neglect the care of the ways;but he laid a causeway of black stone alongthe roads that led to his royal city of Jeru­salem; both to render them easy for travel­lers, and to manifest the grandeur of hisriches and government. He also parted hischariots, and set them in a regular order;that a certain number of them should be inevery city; still keeping a few about him:and those cities he called the cities of hischariots. And the king made silver so plen­tiful in Jerusalem as stones in the street;and so multiplied cedar-trees in the plainsof Judea, which did not grow there before,that they were like the multitude of commonsycamore-trees.* He also ordained the Egyp­tian merchants that brought him their mer­chandise, to sell him a chariot, with a pairof horses, for fsix hundred drachmae of silver;and he sent them to the kings of Syria, andto those kings that were beyond Euphrates.But although Solomon was become themost glorious of kings, and the best belovedof God, and had exceeded in wisdom andriches those that had been rulers of the He­brews before him; yet did he not perseverein this happy state till he died. But he for­sook the observance of the laws of his fathers,and came to an end no way suitable to our foregoing history of him. He grew mad inhis love of women, and laid no restraint onhimself in his lusts. Nor was he satisfiedwith the women of his own country alone;but he married many wives out of foreignnations;J Sidonians and Tyrians, Ammonitesand Edomites; and he transgressed the lawsof Moses, which prohibited Jews from mar­rying any but those that were of their ownpeople. He also began to worship thei»gods,|| which he did in order to the gratifica­tion of his wives, and out of bis affection fopthem. This very thing our legislator sus*pected, and so admonished us beforehand,that we should not marry women of othercountries, lest we should be entangled withforeign customs, and apostatize from our ownjlest we should leave off to honour our ownGod, and should worship their idols. ButSolomon was fallen headlong into unreason­able pleasures, and regarded not those ad­monitions. For when he bad married sevenhundred wives,§ the daughters of princes andof eminent persons, and three hundred con­cubines, and these besides the king of Egypt'sdaughter;** he soon was governed by them,till he came to imitate their practices. Hewas forced to give them this demonstrationof his kindness and affection to them, to liveaccording to the laws of their countries^And as he grew into years, and his reason * 1 Kings x. 27. t Two thousand four hundred shekels, or 2851b. J Notwithstanding the vast multitude of wives thatSolomon had, the Scriptures make mention of no morethan three children, this son, and two daughters, that arespoken of, 1 Kings iv. 11, 15. and, what is strange, in thebeginning of his story, it takes no notice, as usually itdoes, of his mother's nation, or family, though in the con­clusion of it, 1 Kings xiv. 21—31. it twice reminds us,that she was an Ammonitess by birth, and that her namewas Naamah. Rehoboam was born in the first year of hisfather's reign, and was therefore much about forty-onewhen he entered upon the government; but he was anunskilful and imprudent man, and therefore made a veryfalse step at his first accession to the throne. The authorof Ecclesiasticus gives us no advantageous character ofhim. when he terms him, A man void of understanding,wJro turned the people away with his counsel, chap, xlvii.23. Nay, his own son makes but a faint apology for him,when he tells the people, that he was young, (young inunderstanding) and tender-hearted, and could not with­stand his enemies, 2 Chron. xiii. 7. and therefore somehave imagined, that his father Solomon had him in histhoughts, when he said, in his Preacher, I hated all mylabour, which I had taken under the sun, because I was toleave it to a man that should come after me: And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yetshall he have rule over all my labour, wherein I havfelaboured: This also is vanity, chap. it. 18, 19. Calmet'sand Patrick's Commentaries. B. II About an. 999 B. C. § These 700 wives, or the daughters of great men, andthe SOO concubines, the daughters of ignoble, make 1000in all; and are, I suppose, those very 1000 women intr-mated elsewhere by Solomon himself, when he speaks ofhis not having found one good woman among that very-number, Eccles. vii. 28. ** Pharaoh's daughter is generally supposed to have'been a proselyte to the Jewish religion, and thereforeSolomon, in marrying her, incurred no fault; but, in mar­rying so many women besides, and these of a differentreligion, he committed two sins against the law; one inmultiplying wives, and another, in marrying those ofstrange nations, who still retained their idolatry. Andtherefore, the wise son of Sirach, amidst all the encomiumsthat he heaps upon Solomon, could not forget this heinousiniquity, and terrible flaw in his character.—Thou didstbow thy loins to women, and by thy body, thou wastbrought into subjection. Thou didst stain thine honour,and pollute thy seed, so that thou broushtest wrath uponthy children, and wast grieved for thy folly, Eccles. xlvii.19, 20. Patrick's Commentary. B.