OCR Output A. D. 16.] OF TACITUS. 85 formed wonders. Wounded as he was, he bravedevery danger; with his voice, with his hand, withevery effort still sustaining the combat. He fell withfury on the archers, and would have opened his way,had not the Rhsetian cohorts, with the Gauls and theVindelici, advanced their standards to oppose him.Indebted to his own exertions, and the vigour of hishorse, he escaped from the field; and, to disguise hisperson, besmeared his face with his own blood. Ifreport is to be credited, the Chaucians, then 'servingthe allies of Rome, knew his person, but connivedat his escape. By the like gallant behaviour, or a similiar treach­ery, Inguiomer survived the havoc of the day. Ageneral carnage followed. Numbers endeavouring toswim across the Visurgis, perished in the attempt,overwhelmed with darts, or carried away by the vio­lence of the current. The multitude then plungedinto the water; obstructed one another; and, thebanks giving way, were crushed under the load. Somewere dastardly enough to seek their safety by climb­ing up the trees, where they hoped to skulk amongthe branches: but the Roman archers, in sport andderision, took aim at the fugitives; and in that man­ner, or by felling the trees, they were all destroyed.The victory was signal; and cost the Romans littleor no effusion of blood. XVIII. The slaughter lasted from the fifth hour,to the close of day. The country, ten miles round,was covered with mangled bodies, and the arms ofthe vanquished. Among the spoils was found alarge quantity of fetters, which the barbarians, anti­cipating a certain victory, had prepared for the Ro­man prisoners. The legions on the field of battle pro­claimed Tiberius Imperator; and having raised amount, placed on the top of it a pile of German arms,as the trophies of victory, with an inscription at thebase, setting forth the names of the conquered na­tions. XIX. To the German mind nothing could be soexasperating as thfs monument of Roman glory. Thewounds received in battle, the desolation of their Vol. I.—H