OCR Output (5 THE DECLINE AND FALL. chap. yards broad, and a strong chain could be occasion-XIv' ally drawn across it, to guard the port and city fromthe attack of an hostile navy *.ThePro, Between the Bosphorus and the Hellespont, thepontis. shores 0f Europe and Asia receding on either sideinclose the sea of Marmara, which was known tothe ancients by the denomination of Propontis. Thenavigation from the issue of the Bosphorus to theentrance of the Hellespont is about one hundred andtwenty miles. Those who steer their westward coursethrough the middle of the Propontis may at oncedescry the high lands of Thrace and Bithynia, andnever lose sight of the lofty summit of MountOlympus, covered with eternal snows f. They leaveon the left a deep gulf, at the bottom of which Ni-comedia was seated, the imperial residence of Dio­cletian; and they pass the small islands of Cyzicusand Proconnesus before they cast anchor at Galli-poli; where the sea, which separates Asia from Eu­rope, is again contracted into a narrow channel.The Belief- The geographers who, with the most skilful accu-I>ont' racy, have surveyed the form and extent of the Hel­lespont, assign about sixty miles for the winding,course, and about three miles for the ordinary breadthof those celebrated streights. But the narrowestpart of the channel is found to the northward of theold Turkish castles between the cities of Cestus andAbydus. It was here that the adventurous Leanderbraved the passage of the flood for the possession ofhis mistress. It was here likewise, in a place where * See Ducange, C. P. 1 . i. part i. c. 16. and his observations sur Villehar,douin, p. 289. The chain was drawn from the Acropolis near the modemKiosk, to the tower of Galata; and was supported at convenient distances bylarge wooden piles. f Thevenot (Voyages au Levant, part i. 1. i. c. 14.) contracts the measure to125 small Greek miles. Belon (Observations, 1. ii. c. I.) gives a good descrip.tion of the Propontis, but contents himself with the vague expression of one dayand one night's sail. • When Sandys (Travels, p. 21.) talks of 150 furlongs inlength as well as breadth, we can only suppose some mistake of the press in thetext of that judicious traveller.