OCR Output 664 TRA PRAENESTK. Ciiunnnatiis, following up his advantage, reducedeight towns which were subject to Praeneste by |force of arms, and compelled tlie city itself to suh- 1mission (Liv. vi. 26—29). There can be little■ ioiibt that the statement of Livy which representsthis as an unqualified surrender (deditio) is one ofthe exaggerations so common in the early Romanhistory, but the inscription noticed by him. whichwas placed by Cincinnatus under the statue ofJupiter linpcrator, certainly seems to have claimedthe enpture of Praene.>te itself as well as its de­pendent tuuns. (Test. a. i*. TritnUm. p. 363.) Yet the very next year the Praenestines wereagain in arms, and stimulated the other Latin citiesagainst Rome. (Liv. vi. 30.) With this exceptionwe hear no more of them for home time; but anotice which occurs in Diodorus that they concludeda truce with Rome in it. c. 351, shows that theywere still acting an independent part, and kept alooffrom the other Latins. (Died. xvi. 45.) It is, how­ever, certain that they took a prominent part in thegreat Latin War of n. C 3-10. In the second year<>f that war they sent forces to the assi.-dance of thePedant, and, though defeated by the consul Aeinilius,they continued the contest the next year togetherwith the Tiburtines; and it was the final defeat oftheir combined forces by Camillas at Pedum (n. c.33S) that eventually terminated the struggle. (Liv.viii, 12—14.) In the peace which ensued, thePraenestines, as well as their neighbours of Tibur,were punished by the loss of a part of their ter­ritory, but in other respects their position remainedunchanged: they did not, like the other cities ofLatiuin, receive the Roman franchise, but continuedto subsist as a nominally independent state, in al­liance with the powerful republic. They furnishedlike the other "socii" their quota of troops on theirown separate account, and the Praenestine auxili­aries are mentioned in several instances as funninga separate body. Even iu the time of Polybius itwas one of the places which retained the Jus Exilii,and could afford shelter to persuiis banished fromHome. (Pol. vi. 14.) On the arrival of Pyrrhus in Italy the fidelity ofthe Praenestines seems to have been suspected, andthe Romans C'nupclled them to deliver hostages.(Zonar. viii. 3.) Shortly aflerwards Praeneste wasthe point from whence that monarch turned backon his advance to Koine. There is no probabilitythat he took the town. Eutropius says merely thathe advanced to Praeneste; and the expression ofFloras that lie looked down upon Rome from thecitadel of Praeneste is probably only a rhetoricalit'urish of that inaccurate writer. (Flor. ii. 18;Eutrop. ii. 12.) In the Second Punic War a bodyof Praenestine troops distinguished themselves bytheir gallant defence of Casilhium against Hannibal,and though ultimately compelled to surrender, theywere rewarded for their valour and fidelity by theRoman senate, while the highest honours were paidthem in their native city. (Liv. xxiii. 19, 20.) Itis remarkable that they refused to accept the offerof the Roman franchise; and the Praenestines ingeneral retained their independent position till theperiod of the Social War, when they received theRoman franchise together with the other allies.(Appian, B. C. i. 65.) In the civil wars of Marius and Sulla, Praenestebore an important part. It was occupied by Cinnawhen he was driven from Rome in b. c. 87 (Appian,ti. C. i. 05), and appears to have continued in the hands of the Marianafforded a shelter to tremains of his army,Sacri]>ortus. The natibeen greatly increasedSulla abandoned all idarms, mud was contenvallation round it, anda blockade, the coinmsLucretius Ofella. whilelions in the field agaiMarian party. Repealthese generals to relieffect; and at length,Colline Gate and the iPontius Tele.-dnus, thgates to Ofella. Maria vain attempt to eseajput an end to his own94; Plut Mar. 46, ,ii. 26. 27; Liv. Epit.itselt was severely punidistinction were putgiven up to plunder;mantled, and a militajxts^ession of its terril ii. 194; Strab. v. p.town seems to have 1from the hill to the \of Fortune with its apenlarged as to occupyancient city. (Nibbvbut see Ronnann, Ah429.) Rut the citadel stistrength of the poeitioiplace of imjiortauce ifind it mentioned as orwas desirous to oceu]dionsly guarded by Cat a later period L. An41, on the first outbrevian, and from thenceto his rival at Rome,nittl took refuse thereB. C. v. 21, 23, 29.)little of Praeneste inthe terms in which itand Appian, thai it iflitted on its prospeiAppian, B. C. i. 94); Iat that time rose agaisiderable town. Its fvated and healthy tilresort of the Romanspoets of the first centiallusions to it as a cocurban retirement. (Jx. 30. 7; Stat.Si'/s. ivElor. i. 11.) Among (, by Augustus himself,retirement of Homce. iii. 4. 23, Ep. i. 2.there from a dangerN. A. xvi. 13); andwhich, though not conat Tibur, was apparenwas there that the em]when he lost his son Aveal's old. (Jul. Capi Praeneste appears