OCR Output 450 TITUS LIVIUS' Book V. tian lands, every where, without meeting with the leastopposition; till at length; the Volsinians, who were hearti­ly tired of the war, obtained a truce for twenty years,on condition of replacing whatever they had taken fromthe people of Rome, and of being at the expence of oneyear's pay to the army. This year too, one Ca;dicius, a man of low rank, toldthe tribunes, that he heard a miraculous voice in theNew Street, above the temple of Vesta, where there is •now a chapel, which pronounced distinctly, ' Go, tell * the magistrates, the Gauls draw near.' The man'smeanness, as it is the way of the world, brought thewarning into contempt. Moreover, that nation was re­mote, and consequently little known. But not only werethe warnings from the gods despised on this occasion,but Rome, pushed headlong by the fates to destruction,had also deprived herself, in the banishment of Camillas,of every human aid. This great man having had a dayappointed, by L. Apuleius, tribune of the people, to an­swer to an accusation, in relation to the spoils of Veii,when he was in deep affliction for the loss of his son, apromising youth, he called a meeting in his house, of hiskindred and clients, which comprehended a great part ofthe commons; and when he had sounded them with re­spect to the charge laid against him, and found by theiranswers that they could not acquit him, though theywould most cheerfully contribute to his fine, be ratherchose to banish himself from Rome; praying the immortalgods, ' That if he had suffered this injury without rea-'son, his ungrateful country might soon have reason to * regret his absence.' He was condemned in absence,in 15,000 asses of brass.* - . - • - CHAP. XXXIII. Tii Digression relative to the Gauls. A. R. 362. HUS was oae citizen driven into- exile, who, had heremained at Rome, would in all probability, have savedthe city from being taken. As the fatal-stroke was fastapproaching, ambassadors came from Clusium to soliciv.