OCR Output MYCEKAE. MYGDONES. 3b3 strength with elegance in the happiest proportions.The bellies of both are slender in comparison withthe rest of the figure, especially of the one on theright of the beholder. The muscles, sinews, andjoints, though little detailed, are indicated withmuch spirit. The finish, both in a mechanical and•rustical point of view, is excellent; and in passingthe hand orer the surface, one is struck with thesmooth and easy blending of the masses in everyportion of the figure." (Mure, vol. ii. p. 171.) Besides the great Gate of Lions, there was asmaller gate or postern on the northern side of theAcmpulis, the approach to which was fortified inthe same manner as that leading to the great gate.It U constructed of three great stones, and is 5 feet4 laches wide at the top. Near the Gate of Lions the wall of the lowercity may be traced, extending from N. to S. Inthe lower town arc four subterraneous buildings,which are evidently the same as those described byPuuaniaa, in which the Atreidae deposited theirtreasures. Of these the largest, called by the learnedthe " Treasury of Atreus," and by the Greek ciceronithe "Grave of Agamemnon," is situated under thesi)neduct which now conveys the water from thestream on the northern side of the Acropolis to thevillage of Kharmti. (See Flan, C.) This buildingis in nearly a perfect state of preservation. It isapproached by a passage now in ruins, and containstwo chambers. The passage leads into a largechamber of a conical form, about 50 feet in widthand 40 in height; and in this chamber there is adoorway leading into a small interior apartment.The ground-plan and a section of the building arefigured in the Diet. ofAntiq. p. 1127. The doorwayterminating the passage, which leads into the largechamber, is 8 feet 6 inches wide at the top, widen­ing a little from thence to the bottom. "On theoutside before each door-post stood a semi-column,having a base and capital not unlike the Tuscanorder in profile, but enriched with a very elegantsculptured ornament, chiefly in a zigzag form, whichwas continued in vertical compartments over thewhole shaft. Those ornaments have not the smallestresemblance to anything else found in Greece, butthey have some similitude to the Persepolitan styleof sculpture." (Leake, Morea, voiii. p. 374.) Thereare remains of a second subterraneous building nearthf Gate of Lions (Plan, D); and those of the twoothers are lower down the hill towards the west. There lias been considerable discussion amongmodem scholars respecting the purpose of those sub­terraneous buildings. The statement of Pausanias,that they were the treasuries of the Atreidae, wasgenerally accepted, till Mure published an essay inthe HhcmUchtt Mmeum for 1833 (vol. vi. p. 240),in which he endeavoured to establish that all suchbuildings were the family vaults of the ancientheron by whom tbey were constructed. In thegreat edifice at Mycenae he supposes the inner apart-Bent to have been the burial-place, and the outervault the heroum or sanctuary of the deceased. Thisopinion has been adopted by most modern scholars,but has been combated by Leake, who adheres tothe ancient doctrine. (I'eluponnt*iuea,\>. 256.) Thetwo opiniuns may, however, be to some extent recon­ciled by supposing that the inner chamber was theburial-place, and that the outer contained the arms,jewels, and other ornaments most prized by the de­ceased, it was the practice among the Greeks in allages lor the dead to carry with them to their tombs a portion of their property; and in the heroic agesthe burial-places of the powerful rulers of Mycenaemay have been adorned with such splendour thatthe name of Treasuries was given to their tombs,There is, indeed, good reason fur believing, from the,remains of brazen nails found in the large chamberof the "Treasury of Atreus," that the interior sur­face of the chamber was covered with brazen plates. At the foot of the lower town stands the modernvillage of Kharviti. (Leake, Morea, vol. ii. p. 365,seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece, voL ii. p. 163, seq.;Curtius, J'eloponnetoi, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.) MYCE'NI. [Maurktama.] MYCHUS. [Bum.] MY'CONUS (MiWos: Eth. MvkoVios: Myko-no), a small island in the Acgaean sea, lying E. ofDclos, and N. of Naxos. Pliny says (iv. 12. s. 22)that it is 15 miles from Delos, which is much greaterthan the real distance; but Scylax (p. 55) morecorrectly describes it as 40 stadia from Rheneia, theisland W.of Delos. Myconus is about 10 miles inlength, and 6 in its greatest breadth. It is in mostparts a barren rock, whence Ovid gives it the epithetof hmiilit (Met. vii. 463); and the inhabitants had inantiquity a bad reputation on account of their ava­rice and meanness (Allien, i. p. 7 ; hence the pro­verb MuKoVior ytirup, Zenob. Prov. v. 21; Suidas,Hesch., Phot.). The rocks of Myconus are granite,and the summit* of the hills are strewn with im­mense blocks of this stone. This circumstanceprobably gave rise to the fable that the giants sub­dued by Hercules lay under Myconus; whence camethe proverb, "to put all things under Myconus,"applied to those who ranged under one class thingsnaturally separate. (Strab. x. p. 487; Steph. If.». ».) The tomb of the Locrian Ajax was alsoshown at Myconus. (Tzetz. ad Lycophr. 401.) Ofthe history of the island we have no account, exceptthe statement that it was colonised from Athens, bythe Nelide Hippocles. (Zenob. v. 17; SchoL adItionyt. Per. ap. Geogr. Min. vol. iv. p. 37, Hud­son.) Myconus is mentioned incidentally by Hero­dotus (vi. 118) and Thueydides (in. 29). Ancientwriters relate, as one of the peculiarities of Myco­nus, that the inhabitants lost their hair at an earlyage. (Strab. I. c.; Plin. xi. 37. s. 47; " Myconicalva omnis juventus," Donat. ad Ter. Uecyr. iii. 4.19.) The highest mountain, which is in the northernpart of the island, has a summit with two peaks,whence it is called Dimastus by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 22).The promontory of l'uoi'.nia (4>opS/a, l'tol. iii. 15.§ 29) was probably on the eastern side of thebland. Scylax mentions two cities (Mokovoj, alrtiSixoAir, p. 22). Of these one called Myconusoccupied the site of the modem town, which presents,however, scarcely any ancient remains. The nameand position of the other town are unknown. Thecoins of Myconus are rare; and in general very fewremains of antiquity are found in any part of theisland. (Iioss, HeUm au/den Griechischen Irueln,vol. ii. p. 28, seq.) MY'GDONES (MuyoWfj), » Inbe dwelling inBithynia, about the river Odrysses and the coast ofthe Propontis, but extending into Mysia, where theyoccupied the district about Mount Olympus andlake Dascylitis. They had immigrated into AsiaMinor from Thrace, but were afterwards subduedor expelled by the Bithynians. (Strab. vii. p. 295,xii. pp. 564, 575.) The district inhabited by themwas called Mygdonia. (Strab. xii. pp. 550, 558, 576;Plin. v. 41; Solin. 40, 42.) [L. S.]