OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 69 commercial rivals who were disagreeable to him were clearedaway by the armies of the state, and the most glorious citiesof neighbouring lands were sacrificed, not to the barbarismof the lust of power, but to the far more horrible barbarism ofspeculation. Thus too arose the new military organization orrather disorganization, whereby the state, which yet wassolely dependent in the last resort on its military superio­rity, undermined its own support. The fleet was allowedto go to ruin; the system of land-warfare fell into themost incredible decay. The duty of guarding the Asiaticand African frontiers was devolved on the subjects; andwhat could not be so devolved, such as the defence of thefrontier in Italy, Macedonia, and Spain, was managed afterthe most wretched fashion. The better classes began todisappear so much from the army, that it was alreadydifficult to raise the necessary number of officers for theSpanish armies. The daily increasing aversion to theSpanish war-service in particular, combined with the par­tiality shown by the magistrates in the levy, rendered itnecessary in 602 to abandon the old practice of leaving the 152.selection of the requisite number of soldiers from the menliable to serve to the free discretion of the officers, and tosubstitute for it a drawing of the necessary number by ballot,certainly not to the advantage of the military esprit de corps,or of the aptitude for war of the individual divisions. Theauthorities, instead of acting with vigour and strictness,extended their pitiful flattery of the people even to this.field; whenever a consul in the discharge of his duty insti­tuted rigorous levies for the Spanish service, the tribunesmade use of their constitutional right to arrest him (603, 151.616); and it has been already observed, that Scipio's request 138.that he should be allowed a levy for the Numantine war,was directly rejected by the senate. Accordingly, the Romanarmies before Carthage or Numantia already remind oneof those Syrian armies, in which the number of bakers,cooks, actors, and other non-combatants exceeded fourfoldthat of the so-called soldiers; already the Roman generalsare little behind their Carthaginian colleagues in the art ofdestroying armies, and the wars in Africa as in Spain, in Ma­cedonia as in Asia, are regularly opened with defeats; themurder of Gnaeus Octavius is now passed over in silence;the assassination of Viriathus is now a masterpiece of Ro­man diplomacy; the conquest of Numantia is now a great