OCR Output LAVINIUM. LAVINIUM, 145 owo^njiHj, Strab. xii. p. 534; Aaovtviav/i. Ptol.r. ". § 9), the name of one of the four districtsInto which Cuppadocia was divided under theRomans. It was the port extending from thenorthern slope of Mount A man us to the Euphrates,on the north of Aravene, and on the east ofMariano. [L. S.] LAV'IXILTM (Aaovtvtov; Aa€ivioy, Steph. B.:Stk mtandnis, Laviniensis: Pratica), an ancientcity of Latium, situated about 3 miles from the sea-c**st, between Laurentum and Ardea, and distant17 muVs from Rome. It was founded, according tothe tradition universally adopted by Roman writers,by Apneas, shortly after his landing in Italy, andcalled by him after the name of his wife Lavinia, thedaughter of the king Latinus. (Liv. i. 1; Dionys. i.45.39; Strab. v. p. 229; Varr. L.L. v. § 144;Solin. 2. § 14.) The same legendary history repre-sented Aicanius, the son of Aeneas, as transferringuV seat of government and rank of the capital cityof the Latins from Lavinium to Alba, 30 years afterthe foundation of the former city. But the attemptto remove at the same time the Penates, or household?jds of Lavinium, proved unsuccessful: the tutelarydeities returned to their old abode; hence Laviniumctctirmed not only to exist by the side of the new-capital, but was always regarded with reverence as akind of tacred metropolis, a character which it re­tained even down to a late period of the Roman his-»ry. (Ut. L 8; Dionys. i. 66, 67; Strab. v. p.229; Vict. Orig. Gent Horn. 17.) It is impossibleW to enter into a discussion of the legend of theTrojan settlement in Latium, a question which is'■flrtfy examined under the article Latium; but itnav he observed that there are many reasons forfitting the correctness of the tradition that La-Titiiam was at one time the metropolis or centre oftbt Latin state; a conclusion, indeed, to which we areW by the name alone, for there can be little doubtthat Latinus and Lavinus are only two forms of thewme name, so that Lavinium would be merely the ca-;i'al or city of the Latins. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 201;I>*!aM>nn, VarronianuSf p. 6.) The circumstance■ !Mt the l'enates or tutelary gods of Lavinium con-t.;u«j down to a late period to be regarded as those"-< only of Rome, but of all Latium, affords a strongwT^iration of this view. (Varr. L. L. v. § 144.)Whether Lavinium was from the first only the sacredmetropolis of the Latin cities, — a kind of common■aoctuajy or centre of religious worship (as supposed■-* SJmegler, komische Getchkhte, vol. i. p. 319),—or, as represented in the common tradition, was thepvlitical capital also, until supplanted by Alba, is ajmct on which it is difficult to pronounce with cer-UiniT; bat the circumstance that Lavinium appearsii history as a separate political community, and3* of the cities composing the Latin League, would**m opposed to the former view. It is certain,l*nr*rf that it had lost all political supremacy,■fid that this had passed into the hands of Alba, ativs-ry early period; nor did Lavinium recover anypfoieal importance after the fall of Alba: through-*: the historical period it plays a very subordinatei*-t- The first notice we find of it in the Roman^•_iYf U in the legends concerning Tatius, who is^f^serited as being murdered at Lavinium on oc-"ifffl of a solemn sacrifice, in revenge for somefcpnslations committed by his followers on theUviaiao territory. (Liv. i. 14; Dionys. ii. 51, 52;riot. Rom. 23;* Strab. v. p. 230.) It is remark-*tW that Livy in this passage represents the people VOL II. injured as the Laurentes, though the injury wasavenged at Lavinium,—a strong proof of the intimaterelations which were conceived as existing betweenthe two cities. The treaty between Rome and La­vinium was said to have been renewed at the samotime (Liv. /. c), and there is no doubt that both theRoman annals and traditions represented Lavinium,as well as Laurentum, as almost uniformly onfriendly terms with Rome. It was, however, anindependent city, as is proved by the statement thatCollatmus and his family, when banished from Rome,retired into exile at Lavinium. (Liv. ii. 2.) Theonly interruption of these friendly relations tookplace, according to Dionysius, a few years after this,when he reckons the Lavinians among the Latincities which entered into a league against Romebefore the battle of Regillus. (Dionys. v. 61.)There is, however, good reason to believe that thenames there enumerated are in reality only those ofthe cities that formed the permanent Latin League,and who concluded the celebrated treaty with Sp.Cass i us in b. c. 493. (Niebuhr, vol. ii. pp. 23,24.) Lavinium is next mentioned during the wars ofCoriolanus, who is said to have besieged and, ac­cording to Livy, reduced the city (Liv. ii. 39;Dionys. viii. 21); but, from this time, we hear nomore of it till the great Latin War in n. c. 340.On that occasion, according to our present text ofLivy (viii. 11), the citizens of Lavinium are repre­sented as sending auxiliaries to the forces of theLeague, who, however, arrived too late to be of ser­vice. But no mention occurs of Lavinium in thefollowing campaigns, or in the general settlement ofthe Latin state at the end of the war; hence it ap­pears highly probable that in the former passageLanuvium, and not Lavinium, is the city reallymeant; the confusion between these names in theMSS. being of perpetual occurrence. [Lanuvium.]It is much more probable that the Lavinians wereon this occasion also comprised with the Lauren tes,who, as we are expressly told, took no part in thewar, and in consequence continued to maintain theirformer friendly relations with Rome without interrup­tion. (L. vi. /. c.) From this time no historicalmention occurs of Lavinium till after the fall of theRoman Republic; but it appears to have fallen intodecay in common with most of the places near the coastof Latium; and Strabo speaks of it as presenting themere vestiges of a city, but still retaining its sacredrites, which were believed to have been transmittedfrom the days of Aeneas. (Strab. v. p. 232.) Dio­nysius also tells us that the memory of the threeauimals—the eagle, the wolf, and the fox — whichwere connected by a well-known legend with thefoundation of Lavinium, was preserved by the figuresof them still extant in his time in the forum of thattown; while, according to Varro, not only was therea similar bronze figure of the celebrated sow withher thirty young ones, but part of the flesh of thesow herself was still preserved in pickle, and shownby the priests. (Dionys. i. 57, 59; Varr. R. R. ii.4.) The name of Lavinium is omitted by Pliny,where we should have expected to find it, betweenLaurentum and Ardea, but he enumerates amongthe existing communities of Latium the " IlionensesLavini," — an appellation evidently assumed by thecitizens in commemoration of their supposed Trojandescent. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 9.) Shortly after the time of Pliny, and probably inthe reign of Trajan, Lavinium seems to have re- L