OCR Output First volume.- h$ the comet flowed downwards, being of a watry nature, and inthis respect corresponding to tears. The Heliades were changedinto poplar trees, because a juice distills from the poplar treesimilar to amber; and amber has a golden splendour; and goldis dedicated to the Sun. The fable therefore obscurely signifiesthat the juice of the poplar tree is produced from moisture simi­lar to that which was produced by the dissolution of the comet. Page 13. It is related by Herodotus] Herodotus in Terpsich."|informs us, that it was Clisthenes the Athenian, of the family ofthe Alcmæonidæ, who divided the four Athenian tribes intoten. Page 32. And tool care that globular vessels, (sfc."] Many ofthe present day are of opinion, that'the (hips of the ancienta•were of a very inconsiderable size, though a small degree of re­flection must convince every unprejudiced mind, that (hips whichcontained many banks of rowers, and great quantities of armedmen, must have been very large vessels. But the following ac­count of a Ihip constructed by Ptolemy Philopater, from Plutarchin his Life of that great commander Demetrius, abundantly provesthe truth of what I have advanced. "Before the time of De­metrius, fays he, there had not been seen a galley with Jiftten orJixteen banks of oart. But after Demetrius, Ptolemy Philopaterbuilt a prodigious galley of eighty banks of oars. It was twohundred and eighty cubits in length. Its height from the waterto the top of the stern was forty-eight cubits. It had fourhundred mariners, and four thousand rowers: and besides all this,there was convenient standing for nearly three thousand soldiersto fight above the decks." It is true that Plutarch adds, thisunwitldy hulk was «nly fit for mew, and not for service; but itassords a very convincing proof, that the ancients had concep­tions of framing much larger (hips than any of the present time;and it appears to me, that the sixteen-oared gallep of Demetrius,mentioned by Plutarch, must have been at least as large as ourfirst rate men of war. The reader may fee a large and very en- Vol. III. Q_ tertaining