OCR Output CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 23 histoty-ef his grand-sons, how they were born, broughtup, and discovered; and also informs them of the mur­der of the tyrant, at the same time acknowledging,that it did not happen without his consent. Then theyoung princes, making their way through the middle ofthe crowd, with their attendants, saluted their grand­father king; of which the multitude echoing shouts ofapprobation, confirmed to him at once, the prerogative,as well as the title of king. TNumitor being thus recognized king of Alba, Romulusand Remus became passionately fond of building a cityon the very spot where they had been exposed andbrought up. A number, both of Trojans and Albans,could well enough be spared, and the shepherds had al­ready acceded to the motion, who altogether were easilyinduced to hope, that in future times, Alba and Lavi-nia would only be looked upon as inconsiderable villages,compared with the city they were about to build. Theseviews were afterwards interrupted by ambition, an here­ditary evil, which though it was attended with no sortof acrimony at first, had an event sufficiently tragical. As the brothers were twins, and the respect due toseniority could make no distinction, they agreed that thetutelar gods of the country should decide by Augury *,which of the two should give a name and laws to thenew city, when built. Romulus choosed the Palatine,and Remus the Aventine mount, for making their re­spective observations. CHAP, VII. Remus killed. XV EMUS, it is said, had the first omen, namely, sij£.Vultures: but he had hardly made his report, wfrendouble"the number appeared to Romulus; upon which * Ab iivium gestu, vel garritu, first invented in Chaldea, thencetransmitted to Greece, thence to the Tuscans, and by themcommunicated to the Latins and Romans. In taking an Augury,the observer stood on a tower, vita'bis head covered with agown pecutiar to his office, calted Laena, and turning his face tothe east, marked out the heavens into four temples, or quarters,with his litus or short rod, after which he stood waiting for theomeu, which always gained most credit when confirmed by another