OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 401 should keep it himself. Accordingly, he wrote to Phi-locles, who had the command in Corinth and Argos,to have a meeting with the tyrant. Philocles, besidescoming with a valuable present, added to that pledgeOf future friendship between the king and the tyrant,that it was Philip's wish to unite his daughters inmarriage to the sons of Nabis. The tyrant at firstrefused to receive the city on any other terms thanthat of being invited by a decree of the Argives them­selves: but afterwards, hearing that in a full assemblythey had treated his name not only with scorn, buteven with abhorrence, he thought he had now a suffi­cient excuse for plundering them, and he accordinglydesired Philip to give him possession of the place.Nabis was admitted into the city in the night, withoutthe privity of any of the inhabitants, and, at the firstlight, seized on the higher parts of it, and shut thegates. A few of the principal people having madetheir escape during the first confusion, the propertiesof all who were absent were seized as booty: thosewho were present were stripped of their gold andsilver, and loaded with exorbitant contributions. Suchas paid these readily were discharged without personalinsult and laceration of their bodies; but such as weresuspected of hiding or reserving any of their effects,were mangled and tortured like slaves. He then sum­moned an assembly, in which he proposed the passingof two laws; one for an abolition of debts, the otherfor a distribution of the land, in shares, to each man—two firebrands in the hands of the enemies of govern­ment, for inflaming the populace against the higherranks. 39. The tyrant, when he had the city of Argos in hispower, never considering from whom, or on what con­ditions, he had received it, sent ambassadors to Elatia,to Quintius, and to Attalus, in his winter quarters atjEgina, to tell them that ' he was in possession ofArgos; and that if Quintius would come hither andconsult with him, he had no doubt but that every thingliv. vol. v. 2 c