OCR Output 2 ($4 THE DECLINE AND FALL daughter in the affections of the inconstant emperor, and the bandsof policy were more firmly connected by those of love. But thehaughty prejudice of Rome still refused the name of marriage, tothe profane mixture of a citizen and a barbarian ; and has stigmatizedthe German princess with the opprobrious title of concubine of Gal-lienus inroads ofthe uj. \ye have already traced the emigration of the Goths fromGoths. .' Scandinavia, or at least from Prussia, to the mouth of the Bory- sthenes,and have followed their victorious arms from the Borysthenes,to the Danube. Under the reigns of Valerian and Gallienus thefrontier of the last mentioned river was perpetually infested bythe inroads of Germans and Sarmatians; but it was defended bythe Romans with more than usual firmness and success. The pro­vinces that were the feat of war, recruited the armies of Rome withan inexhaustible supply of hardy soldiers; and more than one ofthese Illyrian peasants attained the station, and displayed the abi­lities, of a general. Though flying parties of the barbarians, whoincessantly hovered on the banks of the Danube, penetrated some­times to the confines of Italy and Macedonia ; their progress wascommonly checked, or their return intercepted, by the imperiallieutenants 9+. But the great stream of the Gothic hostilities wasdiverted into a very different channel. The Goths, in their newsettlement of the Ukraine, soon became masters of the northerncoast of the Euxine: to the south of that inland sea, were situatedthe soft and wealthy provinces of Asia Minor, which possessed allthat could attract, and nothing that could resist, a barbarian con­queror. Conquest of The banks of the Borysthenes are only sixty miles distant from the Boiphorus by the Goths. the narrow entrance 9S of the peninsula of Crim Tartary, known tothe ancients under the name of Chersonefus Taurica 9<s. On thatinhospitable shore, Euripides, embellishing with exquisite art the talesof antiquity, has placed the scene of one of his most affecting trage­ dies,