OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 56s eminence, appeared by their conduct to claim a secular and tyran­nical power in the church; and the lively faith which still distin­guished the Christians from the Gentiles, was shewn much less intheir lives, than in their controversial writings. Notwithstanding this seeming security, an attentive observer Progress ofmight discern some symptoms that threatened the church with a petition"more violent persecution than any which she had yet endured. The pT^ns.'1"zeal and rapid progress of the Christians awakened the Polytheistsfrom their supine indifference in the cause of those deities, whomcustom and education had taught them to revere. The mutual pro­vocations of a religious war, which had already continued abovetwo hundred years, exasperated the animosity of the contendingparties. The Pagans were incensed at the rashness of a recent andvobscure sect, which presumed to accuse their countrymen of error,and to devote their ancestors to eternal misery.. The habits of justi­fying the popular mythology against the invectives of an impla­cable enemy, produced in their minds some sentiments of faith andreverence for a system which they had been accustomed to considerwith the most careless levity. The supernatural powers assumed by thechurch inspired at the same time terror and emulation. The fol­lowers of the established religion intrenched themselves behind ctsimilar fortification of prodigies; invented new modes of sacrifice,of expiation, and of initiation ,JJ; attempted to revive the credit of.their expiring oracles "6; and listened with eager credulity to everyimpostor, who flattered their prejudices by a tale of wondersBoth parties seemed to acknowledge the truth of those miracles-■which were claimed by their adversaries; aud while they were con­tented with ascribing them to the arts of magic, and to the powerof dæmons, they, mutually concurred in restoring and establishingthe reign of superstition''8. Philosophy, her most dangerous ene­my, was now converted into her most useful ally. The groves ofthe academy, the gardens of Epicurus, and even the portico of th<j 6 Stoicij.