OCR Output A. D.17.] 109 OF TACITUS. " without knowledge or experience; he tears the laurel" from another's brow, and founds his merit on fraud" and murder: he fell by surprise upon three legions," and put an unsuspecting general, with his whole" army, to the sword. All Germany has had reason to" rue the carnage of that day; nor has Arminius any" thing to boast. His wife and his son are languishing" in Roman chains. Has my conduct producedsodread-" ful a catastrophe? Tiberius, at the head of twelve"legions, advanced against me; but the glory of the" German name suffered no diminution. The peaceK which followed was made on equal terms. For that" treaty I have no reason to blush. Hostilities were" suspended, and you gained time to deliberate which" was most advisable, war with Rome, or a safe and" honourable peace." The two armies were in this manner animated bytheir respective chiefs. The several nations addedtheir own private motives. The Cheruscans tookthe field to maintain their ancient glory, and theLangobards to defend their liberty recently recovered.The Suevians aimed at an extension of territory. Nobattle was ever fought with more inflamed resent­ment, and none with such equivocal success. Theright wing on both sides were put to flight. A deci­sive action was expected ; when Maroboduus drew offhis forces, and encamped on the neighbouring hills ;acknowledging by his retreat, tho superior strength oftile enemy. Desertion in a little time thinned hisarmy. He retired into the country of tho Marcoma-nians, and thence sent a deputation to Tiberius, inhopes of obtaining succours. The emperor's answerwas, that Maroboduus, in the late war with the Che­ruscans, had given the Romans no assistance ; therewas therefore no pretence for the present application.Drusus, notwithstanding, was despatched, in the man­ner already mentioned to secure the frontiers from theincursions of the enemy, and to maintain the tran­quillity of the empire. XLV1I. In the course of this year twelve principalcities in Asia were destroyed by an earthquake.The calamity happened in the nipht, and was for that Vol. l.—K