OCR Output DEDICATION. 13 does he say in his book?" I know that when I shall publish whatI have written, there will be many who will do all they can todepreciate it, and especially such as are themselves void of allmerit; but I let their harangues glide by me." Nor was theremark of Plancus a bad one, when Asinius Pollio was said to bepreparing an oration against him, which was to be published eitherby himself or his children, after the death of Plancus, in orderthat he might not be able to answer it. "It is only ghosts thatfight with the dead." This remark gave such a blow to theoration, that in the opinion of the learned generally nothing wasever thought more scandalous. Feeling myself therefore secureagainst these slanderers vile,*8 a name elegantly composed byCato, to express their slanderous and vile disposition, (for whatother object have they, but to wrangle and breed quarrels ?) Iwill proceed y ith my projected work. And because the public good requires that you should be sparedas much as possible from all trouble, I have subjoined to thisepistle the contents of each of the following books, >s and haveused my best endeavours to prevent your being obliged to readthem all through. And this, which was done for your benefit,will also serve the same purpose for others, so that any one maysearch for what he wishes, and may know where to find it. Thishas been done before among us by Valerius Soranus, in his bookwhich he entitled " On Mysteries."30 The 1st book is the Preface of the Work, dedicated to TitusVespasian Caesar. The 2d is on the World, the Elements, and the HeavenlyBodies. The 3d is on the 1st and 2d of the Great Bays of Europe. The 4th is on the 3d Bay of Europe. In the 5th Africa is described. The 6th contains the Description of Asia. The 7th is on Man, and the Inventions of Man. The 8th on the different kinds of Land Animals. »» "Vitiligatores." a» The table of contents, which occupies no less than 130 pages in Valpy'sedition, is omitted, on the present occasion, in consequence of its length.In this specimen I have thought it sufficient to add the general subjectsof the books only. 3° " EltOltTlStOV."