OCR Output 118 LIVY. ment which they must all expect, with a disgracefuldeath, were before their eyes. Farther, their couragewas inflamed by mutual emulation in toil and danger,and even by the sight of each other. Thus animated,they opposed the enemy with such determined bravery,that the army which had subdued all Spain was oftenrepulsed from the walls, and began, in a contest withthe youth of a single town, not much to their honor,to abate of their ardor. Scipio perceiving this, anddreading lest by these unsuccessful attempts the cou足rage of the enemy should be raised, and his own mendispirited, thought it necessary to exert himself inperson, and take a share in the danger. Whereon,reprimanding the troops for their want of spirit, heordered ladders to be brought to him, threatening tomount the wall himself, since the rest were backward;and, accordingly, he had already advanced near it,and not without danger, when a shout was raised onall sides by the soldiers, alarmed at the situation ofthe general, and the scalade was attempted at once.Laslius, too, pressed on at the other side. The inha足bitants were then no longer able to make opposition,and those who defended the walls being beaten off, theRomans took possession of them. 20. The citadel, too, during the tumult, being at足tacked on that side where it was thought impregnable,was taken. While the inhabitants were engaged indefence of those places where the danger appeared,and the Romans, in making greater approaches wherethey found it practicable, some African deserters, whowere then among the Roman auxiliaries, observed,that the most elevated part of the town, though pro足tected by a very high rock, was neither secured byany works, nor provided with men for its defence. Asthey were light of body, and very active from constantexercise, carrying iron spears along with them, theyclimbed up, by means of the irregular prominences ofthe rock; and when they met with a cliff too high andsmooth, by driving in the spikes at moderate distances,they formed a kind of steps. In this manner, the fore-