OCR Output 142 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. these bands bad their head-quarters, the open country waswholly in the hands of the insurgents and Morgantia andother walled towns were already besieged by them, when theRoman governor with his hastily collected Sicilian andItalian troops fell upon the slave-army in front of Morgantia.He occupied the undefended camp; but the slaves, althoughsurprised, made a stand. In the combat that ensuedthe levy of the island not only gave way at the first onset,but, as the slaves allowed every one who threw down hisarms to escape unhindered, the militia almost without ex­ception embraced the good opportunity of taking their de­parture, and the Roman army completely dispersed. Hadthe slaves in Morgantia been willing to make common causewith their comrades before the gates, the town was lost;but they preferred to accept the gift of freedom in a legalway from their masters, and by their valour helped them tosave the town—whereupon the Roman governor declaredthe promise of liberty solemnly given by the masters to becancelled in law, as having been illegally wrung from them.Athenion. While the revolt thus spread after an alarming manner inthe interior of the island, a second broke out on the westcoast. It was headed by Athenion. He had been, just likeCleon, formerly a dreaded captain of banditti in his nativecountry of Cilicia, and had been carried thence as a slave toSicily. He secured, just as his predecessors had done, theadherence of the Greeks and Syrians especially by propheciesand other edifying impostures. Skilled however in war andsagacious as he was, he did not, like the other leaders, armthe whole mass that flocked to him, but formed out of themen able for warfare an organized army, while he consignedthe multitude to peaceful employment. In consequence ofhis strict discipline, which repressed all vacillation and allinsubordinate motions in his troops, and his gentle treat­ment of the peaceful inhabitants of the country and even ofthe captives, he gained rapid and great successes. TheRomans were on this occasion disappointed in the hope thatthe two leaders would fall out; Athenion voluntarilysubmitted to the far less capable King Tryphon, and thuspreserved unity among the insurgents. These soon ruledwith virtually absolute power over the flat country, wherethe free proletarians again took part more or less openlywith the slaves; the Roman authorities were not in a