OCR Output 298 LIVY. the cavalry, being full of confidence in that part of hisforce; then six thousand foot; and, at last, the wholebody of infantry, to the ground previously fixed on inthe plan which he had adopted. It was then winter,and the weather snowy, in Whose places which lie be­tween the Alps and the Apennines; and the cold wasrendered exceedingly intense by the proximity of ri­vers and marshes. Besides this,' both men and horsesbeing drawn out in a hurry, without having first takenfood, or used any precaution to guard against the in-temperature of the air, were quite chilled; and as theyapproached the river, the more piercing were the blastswhich assailed them. But having, in pursuit of theflying' Numidians, entered the river, which, by rain inthe night, was swelled so high as to reach their breasts,their bodies, on coming out, were all so perfectly be­numbed, that they were scarcely capable of holdingtheir arms; and, as the day advanced, they also grewfaint through hunger. 55. Meanwhile Hannibal's soldiers had fires madebefore their tents; oil was distributed to every com­pany to lubricate their joints, and they had at leisurerefreshed themselves with food. As soon therefore asintelligence was brought that the enemy had passedtbe river, they took arms with sprightly vigor both ofmind and body, and thus advanced to battle. Hanni­bal placed in the van the Balearians and light-armedtroops, amounting to about eight thousand; and, in asecond line, his heavier armed infantry, the main powerand strength of his army. The flanks he covered withten thousand cavalry ; and, dividing the elephants,placed half of them on the extremity of each wing.The consul seeing his cavalry, who pressed the pursuitwith disorderly haste, taken at a disadvantage by theNumidians suddenly turning on them, recalled themby the signal for retreat, and posted them on the flanksof the foot. His army consisted of eighteen thousandRomans, twenty thousand of the allies and Latine con­federates, besides the auxiliary troops of the Cenoma-