OCR Output THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. THOSE* who undertake to write histories, do not, I perceive, take that trouble on oneand the same account; but for many and various reasons. For some apply themselvesto this part of learning to shew their great skill in composition; and that they may thereinacquire a reputation. Others write histories in order to gratify those who happen to beconcerned in them; and on that account spare no pains, but rather exceed their own abilities,in the performance. But there are others who of necessity are driven to write history, be­cause they were concerned in the facts, and so cannot excuse themselves from committingthem to writing, for the advantage of posterity. Nay, there are not a few who are inducedto draw their historical facts out of darkness into light, and to produce them for the benefitof the public, on account of the great importance of the facts themselves, with which theyhad been concerned. Now of these several reasons for writing history, I must profess the twolast were my own. For since I was myself interested in that war which we Jews had withthe Romans, and knew myself its particular actions and conclusion, I was forced to give thehistory of it, because I saw that others perverted the truth of those actions in their writings. Now I have undertaken the present work, as thinking it will appear to all the Greeksfworthy of their study: for it will contain all our antiquities, and the constitution of ourgovernment, as interpreted out of the Hebrew J scriptures. And indeed, I did formerlyintend when I§ wrote of the war, to explain who the Jews originally were; what fortunes theyhad been subject to; and by what legislator they had been instructed in piety and the exer­cise of other virtue; what wars they also had made in remote ages, till they were unwillinglyengaged in this last with the Romans. But because this work would take up a great compass, * This preface of Josephus's is excellent in its kind, and highly worthy the repeated perusal of the reader, beforehe set about the perusal of the work itself. t That is all the Gentiles, both Greeks, and Romans. X Josephus never followed the Septuagint, nor any other Greek version, in these his Antiquities, or other works,but only the Hebrew original; and this so punctually through all his known writings, as to make use of none of thesacred books but those that were written in Hebrew, and belonging to the Jerusalem catalogue. § Josephus wrote his seven books of the Jewish War, long before he wrote his Antiquities. Those books of theWar were published about A. D. 75, and these Antiquities A. D. 93, about eighteen years later. See Fabriciui apudHavercamp, page 58, 59. voL. I.—No. I. C