OCR Output B. I. " INTRODUCTION. 9 expressly informed us, that every person of the crews be­longing to the ships of Philoctetes were both mariners andsoldiers, since he hath made all who plied at the oar to beexpert at the bow. It is not probable that any ships carriedsupernumeraries, excepting kings or persons in command,especially as their point was a mere transportation with all thenecessary habiliments of war, and as their ships were notdecked, but built entirely in the fashion of the old piraticalcruizers. If therefore a mean be taken between the largestand smallest rates, the number of the whole will turn out*of small account for quotas sent in general from the wholeof Greece. The reason of this was not so much a scarcityof men as want of money. They adjusted the number ofmen to the slender store of provisions they already had, andthe probability of procuring a competent subsistence in thecourse of the war. On their first landing they got the bet­ter in fight; the proof is, that they could not otherwise havefortified their camp with a wall. Neither doth it appear thatthey exerted all their strength at once, numbers being de­tached for supplies of provisions, to till the Chersonesus,and to forage at large. Thus divided as they were, the Tro­jans were better able to make a ten years resistance, beingequal in force to those who were at any time left to carryon the siege. For had the stores of provision at the first land­ing been ample enough for the whole number of men theybrought, and had they been able to prosecute the war freefrom the avocations of foraging and tillage, their superiorityin the field must have given them an easy and expeditiousconquest. Cut in fact they did not ply the work with alltheir number, but only with a part constantly reserved forthe purpose : Had they formed the siege with their wholeforce, in less time and with less difficulty they must havetaken Troy. Through want of money tt was that expedi- • Thucydides makes it of small account, in repardtotliewar which is hissubject. But the number of men employed in the expedition against Troywas 102000. For the mean between 120 and 50 is 85, and 85 x by 1200= 102000.