OCR Output 891 SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM. But the peace thus concluded was of short dura­tion. Little more than five years elapsed betweenthe close of the Second Samnite War and the com­mencement of the Third. It might well have beenthought that, after a struggle of more than twentyyears' duration, the resources of the Samnites, if nottheir spirit, would have been exhausted; but theyseem to have been actively engaged, even before theactual outbreak of hostilities, in organising a freshcoalition against Rome. A new and formidableauxiliary had appeared in a large body of Gauls,which had recently crossed the Alps, and, unitingwith their countrymen the Soaonca, threatened theRomans from the N. Rome was at this time en­gaged in war with the Etruscana and Umbrians,and the Etruscans hastened to secure the services ofthe Gauls. Meanwhile the Samnites, deeming theattention of the Romans sufficiently engaged else­where, attacked their neighbours the Lucanians,probably with the view of restoring the power inthat country of the party favourable to the Samnitealliance. The op]>osite party, however, called inthe Romans to their assistance, who declared waragainst the Samnites, and thus began the ThirdSamnite War, B. o. 298. (Lit. x. 11.) Thecontest had now assumed larger dimensions; theSamnites concluded a league with the Etruscans,Umbrians, and Gauls, and for several successive cam­paigns the operations in Samnium were subordinateto those in the valley of the Tiber. But the ter­ritory of Samnium itself was at the same time ravagedby the Roman generals in so systematic a manner,that it is clear they had obtained a decided supe­riority in the field ; and though the Samnites on oneoccasion retaliated by laying waste the Campanianand Falernian plains, they were soon again drivenback to their mountain fastnesses. (Liv. x. 15, 17,20.) At length, in b. c. 295, the great battle ofSentinum, in which the united forces of the Gauls andSamnites were totally defeated by the Roman consulQ. Fabius, decided the fortune of the war. GelliusKgnatius, the Samnite general, who had been themain organiser of the confederacy, was slain, and theleague itself virtually broken up. (Liv. x. 27—3D.)Nevertheless the Samnites continued to carry on thewar with unabated energy; and in B.C. 293 theyraised a fresh army of 40,000 men, levied withsolemn sacred rites, and arrayed in a peculiar garb.These circumstances sufficiently prove the import­ance which they attached to this campaign, yet itsresult was not more successful than those whichhad preceded it, and the Samnite armies were againdefeated by the consuls L. Papirius Cursor and Sp.Caivilius in two successive battles near Aquiloniaand Cominium. (Liv. x. 38—45.) The opera­tions of the subsequent campaigns are imperfectlyknown to us, from the loss of the books of Livy inwhich they were related: but the next year (b. c.292) C. Pontius, the victor of the Caudine Forks,reappears, after a long interval, at the head of theSamnite armies; he defeated Q. Fabius, but was inhis turn defeated in a far more decisive engagement,in which it is said that 20.000 Samnites were slain,ami 4000 taken prisoners, including C. Pontiushimself,who was led in triumph by Fabius, and thenput to death. (Oros. iii. 22; Liv. EpiL xi.) It isprobable that this battle gave the final blow to theSamnite power, yet their resistance was still pro­longed for two years more; and it was not till b. c.290 that they consented to lay down their armsand sue for peace. Even in that year the consul M'. Curius Den tat us could still earn the kooc c!a triumph, and the fame of baring put ic &a tothe Samnite wars after they had listed fotsnthan fifty years. (Liv. EpiL xL; Euirop.il 9.) The conclusion of the Third Samnite 1st is re­garded by some of the Roman historians ■ tin Awof the struggle between Rome and S*mmw- lainot without reason, for though the name tf titFourth Samnite War is given by modern writes tothe war that broke out afresh in b.c &i &Samnites on that occasion certainly figure nihraauxiliaries than as principals. They, however, ;aseithe league which was formed at the insuginsfi a*the Tarentines against Rome; and bore i put aall the subsequent operations of the war. Tttjseem indeed to have at first looked with jeaieurr*suspicion upon the proceedings of Pyrrbus; nilwas not till after the battle of Heracles thai tlsf jsent their contingent to his support. (Pint Pf7*' \17.) But in the great battle at Asculum the I*lowing year (b. c. 278) the Samnites bore is iportant part, and seem to have sustained tfcancient reputation for valour. (Dioxiys. U- **•!Didot.) The departure of Pyrrhus forshortly after, and his filial defeat by IT.CornsBeneventum after his return (n. c. 274), »ft 1Samnites and their allies to bear the whole kiof the war, and they were wholly unabie to atend with the power of Rome. We know neckin detail of these last campaigns: we team «4jthat in b. c. 272, just before the fall of TiraBjthe Samnites, as well as their allies the Luavand Bruttians, made their final and absolute imission; and the consul Sp. Carvilins celebiateilast of the long series of triumphs over the(Zonar.viii. 6; Lit. Epit.xir.; FastCajnL) Alrevolt indeed broke out in the N. of Samniaa 0years afterwards, among the petty tribe of the 0ceni, hut was speedily suppressed, before it asitained any more formtdi&bie character. (Zsviii. 7; Dionys. xx. 9, Fr. Mai.) We have no account of the terms on wait*Samnites were received to submission by tbeftaajor of their condition as subjects of the repablcthere can be no doubt that the policy of the Anant people was to break up as much as patheir national organisation and all bone* of 1between them. At the same time two coloaia'established as fortresses to keep them in check:at Beneventum, in the country of the Hirj as268), and the other at Aesemia, in the TaUeyi"Vulturnus (n. c. 264). All the.-* precaatKmever, did not suffice to secure the : - '} «fSamnites during the Second Punic War. ithe battle of Cannae (n.c 216), the ILrpiniamong the first to declare themselves ia bbMHannibal, and their example is said to hat*followed by all the Samnites, except the Peafl(Liv. xxii. 61.) It is singular that this tribe,the most powerful and warlike of all, abseMthus held aloof; but the statement of Larr ifirmed by the subsequent coarse of the war, 4which the Pent rums never seem to havepart, while the land of the Hirpini, and theportions of Samnium bordering oa Lifrequently the scene of hostilities. Bat theftcolonies Aesemia and Beneventum never flalthe hands of the Carthaginian*; and thethrough a great part of the war held by one4Roman generals, as a post of the utmost aaiimportance, lu n.c. 214 and again in a-«i