OCR Output CHAP. L. 343 lected to secure, either by gifts or fetters, the doubtfulallegiance of Telha and Zobier, two of the most powerfulof the Arabian chiefs. They escaped from Medina toMecca, and from thence to Bassora; erected the stan­dard of revolt, and usurped the government of Irak, orAssyria, which they had vainly solicited as the rewardof their services. The mask of patriotism is allowed tocover the most glaring inconsistencies: and the enemies,perhaps the assassins, of Othman now demanded ven­geance for his blood. They were accompanied in theirflight by Ayesha, the widow of the prophet, who che­rished, to the last hour of her life, an implacable hatredagainst the husband and the posterity of Fatima. Themost reasonable Moslems were scandalized, that themother of the faithful should expose in a camp her personand character; but the superstitious crowd was confidentthat her presence would sanctify the justice, and assurethe success, of their cause. At the head of twenty thou­sand of his loyal Arabs, and nine thousand valiant auxi­liaries of Cufa, the caliph encountered and defeated thesuperior number of the rebels under the walls of Bassora.Their leaders, Telha and Zobeir, were slain in the firstbattle that stained with civil blood the arras of the Mos­lems. After passing through the ranks to animate thetroops, Ayesha had taken her post amidst the dangersof the field. In the heat of the action, seventy men,who held the bridle of her camel, were successivelykilled or wounded; and the cage or litter in which shesat, was struck with javelins and darts like the quills ofa porcupine. The venerable captive sustained withfirmness the reproaches of the conqueror, and was speed­ily dismissed to her proper station, at the tomb of Ma­homet, with the respect and tenderness that was still dueto the widow of the apostle. After this victory, whichwas styled the Day of the Camel, Ali marched againsta more formidable adversary; against Moawiyah, theson of Abu Sophian, who had assumed the title of ea­