OCR Output Chap. IV. AVTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 143 Lupus laid his garment aside and complained of the cold *, hesaid, that cold was never hurtful to Lupus, [i. e. a. wolf]. And,as a great many men went along with them to see the sight, whenCherea came to the place, he asked the soldier who was to betheir executioner, whether this office was what he was used to ?or whether this was the first time of his using his sword in thatmanner, and desired him to bring him that very sword with'which he himself slew Caius. So he was happily killed at onestroke. But Lupus did not meet with such good fortune in goinsjout of the world, since he was timorous, and had many blowslevelled at his neck, because he did not stretch it out boldly, [ashe ought to have done.] 6. Now, a few days after this, as the parental solemnites werejust at hand, the Roman multitude made their usual oblations totheir several ghosts, and put portions into the fire, in honour ofCherea, and besought him to be merciful to them, and not con­tinue his anger against them for their ingratitude. And this wasthe end of the life that Cherea came to. But, for Sabinus, al­though Claudius not only set him at liberty, but gave him leaveto retain his former command in the army, yet did he think itwould be unjust in him to fail of performing his obligations tohis fellow confederates; so he fell upon his sword, and killedhimself, the wound reaching up to the very hilt of the sword f-. CHAP. * This piercing cold here complained of by Lupus, agrees well to the time ofthe year when Claudius began his reign ; it being for certain about the monthsof November, December, or January, and most probably a few days after Jan.24th, and a few days before the Roman Pareiifalia. t It is both here and elsewhere very remarkable, that the murderers of thevilest tyrants who yet highly deserved to die, when those murderers were underoaths, or other the like obligations of fidelity to them, were usually revenged,and the murderers were cut off themselves, and that after a remarkable manner;and this sometimes, as in the present case, by those very persons who were notsorry for such murders, but got kingdoms by them. The examples are very nu­merous, both in sacred and profane histories, and seem generally indications ofdivine vengeance on such murderers. Nor is it unworthy of remark, that suchmurderers of tyrants do it usually on such ill principles, in such a cruel manner,and as ready to involve the innocent with the guilty, which was the case here,chap. i. sect. 14. and chap. ii. sect. 4. as justly deserved the divine vengeanceupon them. Which seems to have been the case of Jehu also, when, besides thehouse of Ahab, for whose slaughter he had a commission from God, without anysuch commission, any justice or commiseration, he killed Ahab's great men, andacquaintance, and priests, and forty-two of the kindred of Ahaziah, 2 Kings x.ii—14. SeeHos. i. 4. I do not mean here to condemn Ehud or Judith, or thelike executioners of God's vengeance on those wicked tyrants, who had unjustlyoppressed God's own people under their theocracy; who, as they appear still to havehad no selfish designs nor intentions to slay the innocent, so had they still a di­vine commission, or a divine impulse, which was their commission for what theydid, Judges, iii. 15, jp, 20. Judith, ix. 2. Test. Levi, sect.,;;' in Authent. Rec. p312. Se.e also page 432.