OCR Output 192 livy. revolt, and if it also appeared that our return to obe­dience, and to acknowlegement of your authority, wasnot only voluntary, but effected by our own co-opera­tion and courage, you would see the greater indigna­tion at such grievous and unmerited injuries being in­flicted on good and faithful allies, by your lieutenant-general and his soldiers. But I think it better to de­fer the subject of our changes of party to anothertime; and that for two reasons: first, that it may bediscussed in the presence of Publius Scipio, who re­gained possession of Locri, and was a witness of ourbehavior, whether good or bad; and secondly, that,let our conduct have been what it may, we ought notto have suffered the evils which have been poured onus. We cannot, conscript fathers, disown, that whilewe had a Carthaginian garrison, we suffered manycruelties and indignities, as well from Hamilcar thecommander there, as from' the Numidians and Afri­cans. But what are these, when compared with whatwe this day endure? I request, conscript fathers, thatyou will hear, without being offended, what I unwill­ingly mention. All mankind are in suspense whetherthey are to see you or the Carthaginians sovereigns ofthe world. Now, if an estimation were to be formedof the Roman and Carthaginian governments from thetreatment which we of Locri have borne on the onehand, and from that which on the other we at this pre­sent time bear, without remission, from your garrison,there is no one who would not rather choose Africansthan Romans for his masters. Yet, observe what dis­positions the Locrensiaus have, notwithstanding, showntowards you. When we were ill treated by the Car­thaginians in a much less degree, we had recourse toyour general for redress. Now, when we suffer fromyour garrison worse than hostile cruelty, we have car­ried our complaints to no other but to you. Conscriptfathers, you will consider our desperate situation, orwe are left without any resource for which we caneven pray to the immortal gods. Quintus Pleminius,lieutenant-general, was sent with a body of troops to