OCR Output A. D. 14.] 11 OF TACITUS. he affected neither pomp nor grandeur. The will be­ing read, the funeral honours were taken into consi­deration. The chief propositions were, that the pro­cession should pass through the triumphal gale; this wasmoved by Asinius Gallus: that the titles of all the lawiof Augustus, and the names of the conquered nations,should be carried before the body, was the motion ofLucius Arruntius. Valerius Messala was of opinion,that the oath of fidelity to Tiberius should be renewedevery year; and being thereupon interrogated by theprince, whether that motion was made with his pri­vity? I made it, said Messala, upon my own sugges­tion ; in matters of public concern, however, it may giveumbrage, the conviction of my own heart shall be theonly rule of my conduct. The age had left no othermode of flattery. The senate with one voice insistedthat the body should be borne to the funeral pile upontheir own shoulders. Tiberius assented with seemingcondescension but real arrogance. The Field ofMars was the place appointed for the ceremony. Aproclamation was issued, warning the populace to re­strain their zeal, and not require that the last dutiesshould be performed in the Forum, as had been donewith tumult and disorder at the funeral of JuliusCsesar. On the day appointed for the ceremony, the sol­diers were drawn up under arms; a circumstance thatserved only to provoke the ridicule of all who remem­bered the day, or heard of it from their fathers, whenCsesar the dictator was put to death. In that earlyperiod of slavery, and in the first emotions of joy forliberty in vain recovered, the blow for freedom seemeda murder to some, and to others a glorious sacrifice.But in the present juncture, when a prince worn outwith age, who had grown gray in power, and left along train of heirs, was to receive the last funeral ob­sequies, at such a time to call forth the military, in or­der to secure a quiet interment, was a vain parade, asridiculous as it was unnecessary. IX. Augustus now became the subject of public dis­cussion. Frivolous circumstances engaged the atten­tion of the greater number. They observed that the