OCR Output 94 THE DECLINE AND FALL Dissolutepleasures ofCommodus. His igno­rance andlow sports. massacre. The prætorians, at length, gave way, oppressed withnumbers; and the tide of popular fury returned with redoubledviolence against the gate of the palace, where Commodus lay, dis­solved in luxury, and alone unconscious of the civil war. It wasdeath to approach his person with the unwelcome news. He wouldhave perished in this supine security, had not two women, hiseldest sister Fadilla, and Marcia, the most favoured of his concu­bines, ventured to break into his presence. Bathed in tears, andwith dishevelled hair, they threw themselves at his feet; and withall the pressing eloquence of fear, discovered to the affrighted em­peror, the crimes of the minister, the rage of the people, and theimpending ruin, which, in a few minutes, would burst over hispalace and person. Commodus started from his dream of pleasure,and commanded that the head of Cleander should be thrown out tothe people. The desired spectacle instantly appeased the tumult;and the son of Marcus might even yet have regained the affectionand confidence of his subjects l8. But every sentiment of virtue and humanity was extinct in themind of Commodus. Whilst he thus abandoned the reins of em­pire to these unworthy favourites, he valued noting in sovereignpower, except the unbounded licence of indulging his sensual appe­tites. His hours were spent in a seraglio of three hundred beautifulwomen, and as many boys, of every rank, and of every province;and if the arts of seduction were ineffectual, the brutal lover hadrecourse to violence. The ancient historians *9, have expatiated onthese abandoned scenes of prostitution, which scorned every restraintof nature or modesty ; but it would not be easy to translate their toofaithful descriptions, into the decency of modern language. Theintervals of lust were filled up with the basest amusements.. Theinfluence of a polite age, and the labour of an attentive education,had never been able to infuse into his rude and brutish mind, theleast tincture of learning, and he was the first of the Roman empe­rors «