OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. lifhed, instead of being condemned as the effect of jealous tyranny, ^e0^freJedeserves to be applauded as an act of prudence.and humanity. He chymy.caused a diligent inquiry to be made "for all the ancient booksu which treated of the admirable art of making gold and silver,"and without pity committed them to the flames; apprehensive,«* as we are assured, lest the opulence of the Egyptians should in-"spire them with confidence to rebel against the empire SV Butif Diocletian had been convinced of the reality of that valuableart, far from extinguishing the memory, he would have convertedthe operation of it to the benefit of the public revenue. It is muchmore likely that his good fense discovered to him the folly of suchmagnificent pretensions, and that he was desirous of preserving thereason and fortunes of his subjects from the mischievous pursuit.It may be remarked, that these ancient books, so liberally ascribed Novelty andto Pythagoras, to Solomon, or to Hermes, were the pious frauds [hafart.of more recent adepts. The Greeks were inattentive either to theuse or to the abuse of chymistry. In that immense register, wherePliny has deposited the discoveries, the arts, and the errors of man­kind, there is not the least mention of the transmutation of metals;and the persecution of Diocletian is the first authentic event in thehistory of alchymy. The conquest of Egypt by the Arabs diffusedthat vain science over the globe. Congenial to the avarice of thehuman heart, it was studied in China as in Europe, with equaleagerness, and with equal success. The darkness of the middleages ensured a favourable reception to every tale of wonder, andthe revival of learning gave new vigour to hope, and suggestedmore specious arts of deception. Philosophy, with the aid of expe­rience, has at length banished the study of alchymy; and the pre­sent age, however desirous of riches, is content to seek them by thehumbler means of commerce and industry The reduction of Egypt was immediately followed by the Persian The Persia*war. It was reserved for the reign of Diocletian to vanquish that **r" B b b 2, powerful