OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 121 compelled to leave the inheritance of the empire. Buthis jealousy was exasperated by envy and disease: hefeared the dangerous virtues which might either sup­port or oppress their infancy and weakness; and thedying emperor demanded the head of the Persian prince.With savage delight, he recognised the familiar featuresof his brother: Thou art no longer Theophobus, he said:and sinking on his couch, he added, with a faulteringvoice, Soon, too soon, I shall be no more Theophilus! The Russians, who have borrowed from the Greeksthe greatest part of their civil and ecclesiastical policy,preserved, till the last century, a singular institution inthe marriage of the czar. They collected, not the vir­gins of every rank and of every province, a vain and ro­mantic idea, but the daughters of the principal nobles,who awaited in the palace the choice of their sovereign.It is affirmed, that a similar method was adopted in thenuptials of Theophilus. With a golden apple in hishand, he slowly walked between two lines of contendingbeauties: his eye was detained by the charms of Icasia,and, in the awkwardness of a first declaration, the princecould only observe, that in this world, women had beenthe cause of much evil: And surely, sir (she pertly re­plied), they have likewise been the occasion of much good.This affectation of unseasonable wit displeased the im­perial lover: he turned aside in disgust; Icasia concealed her mortification in a convent: and the modestsilence of Theodora was rewarded with the golden apple.She deserved the love, but did not escape the severity,of her lord. From the palace garden he beheld a ves­sel deeply laden, and steering into the port: on thediscovery that the precious cargo of Syrian luxury wasthe property of his wife, he condemned the ship to theflames, with a sharp reproach, that her avarice had de­graded the character of an empress into that of a mer-Michaei chant. Yet his last choice intrusted her withA*b 84?, the guardianship of the empire and her sonJan. 20. 'Michael, who was left an orphan in the fifth