OCR Output SICYON. SICYON. 991 inc. it. 70), and in the same Tear they repulsed-vent of the Athenians under Demosthenes uponrrurritary. (Thuc. ir. 101.) In n.c. 419tliey:rd with the Corinthians in preventing Alcibiadesn erecting a fortress upon the Achaean promon-r of Rhium. (Thuc v. 52.) About this timeeajorratical revolution appears to have taken», fine* we 6nd tbe Lacedaemonians establishingi^arvhical government in Sicyon in B.C. 417.at t. 82.) In the wars of Lacedaemon againstv!>. B.c. 394, and against Thebes, b. c. 371,Nryonians espunsed the side of the Lacedaemo-■. ' (Xen. lltU. iv. 2.§ 14, iv.4. § 7, seq. vi.id.) Bat in B. c. 368 Sicyon was compelled'pmminundas to join the Spartan alliance, and to;l a Theban harmost and garrison into theItl Erjphron, a leading citizen of Sicyon,of these circumstances, andthe Arcadians and Argives, succeededdemocracy, and shortly after-m made himself tyrant of the city. But beingliad by tbe Arcadians and Thebans, he retired■ harbour, which he surrendered to Sparta.Lie assistance of the Athenians he returnedryan; bat finding himself unable to dislodge1 .-ban garrison from the Acropolis, he re­s' to Thebes, in hopes of obtaining, by corrup-aad intrigue, the banishment of his opponentslie restoration of his own power. Here, how-be was murdered by some of his enemies.BtlL tu. 1—3; Diod. xv. 69, 70 ; Diet of: art. EcTHROjf.) Sicyon seems, however, tobsan favorable to tyrants ; for, after a shortve anin find ths city in their power. The7 with which ambitious citizens obtained theBse power was probably owing to the antago-Wtween tbe Dorian and old Ionian inhabitants.arjK-nea mentions two Sicyonian tyrants,Mo* and Eptcbares, in the pay of Philip (c/eft. 243. 324). In the Lamian war, after thee/ Alexander tbe Great, B.C. 323, theuna joined tbe other Greeks against the(Diod. xviii. 11.) The city subse-> fell into the hands of Alexander, the son ofxrenoa ; and after his murder in B. c. 314,» Crsteaipolia continued to hold the town for>Vr till B-C 308, when she was induced toit to Ptolemy. (Diod. xix. 67, xx. 37.) In03, Sicyon passed out of the hands of I'tolemy,inrprised by Demetrius Poliorcetes in theIt appears that at this time Sicyon consistedrt distinct parts, as already mentioned, the4a, on tbe hill of VatiUtd, the lower city att, and the port-town. It is probable thatand the lower city were with the port-town, by walls extending to thetf tbe three quarters were now separated fromttnsr, and there was even a vacant spaceI lbs lower town and tbe citadel. Seeing theiv of defending so extensive a space with theLed nasuairrwa and p>pulation of the city, andi to jaw, ore a strongly fortified place, Demetriussd the inhabitants to remove to the site of theAcropolis, which Diodorus describes as " ay preferable to thst of the former city, the1 space being an extensive plain, surroundedr ltd* by precipices, and so difficult of accessI not be possible to attack the walls withThis new city was called Demetrias.I; Plat Dtmetr. 25; Pans. ii. 7.L p. 382.) The name Demetrias soon disappeared; but the city continued to remainupon its lofty site, which was better adapted thanmost mountain heights in Greece fur a permanentpopulation, since it contained a good supply of waterand cultivable land. Pausanias (£c.) represents thelower town as the original city of Aegialeus; butCol. Leake justly remarks, it is more natural to con­clude that the first establishment was made upon thehill Vatilikd, which, by its strength and its securedistance from the sea, possesses attributes similar tothose of the other chief cities of Greece. Indeed,Pausanias himself confirms the antiquity of the occu­pation of the hill of Vasilihi, by describing all themost ancient inonntnents of the Sicyonians as standingupon it. (Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p. 367.) After Demetrius quitted Sicyon, it again became,subject to a succession of tyrants, who quickly dis­placed one another. Cleon was succeeded in Lbstyranny by Euthvdemus and Timocleidea; but theywere expelled by the people, who placed Cleinia.-,the father of Aratus, at the head of the government.Cleinias was soon afterwards murdered by Abantidxs,who seized the tyranny, B. c. 264. Abantidas wa.smurdered in his turn, and was succeeded by hisfather Paseas; but he again was murdered byNicocles, who had held the sovereign power onlyfour months, when the young Aratus surprised thecitadel of Sicyon, and delivered his native city fromthe tyrant, B.C. 251. (Paus. ii. 8. §§ 1—3; Plut.Aral. 2.) Through the influence of Aratus, Sicyuunow joined the Achaean League, and was one of themost important cities of the confederacy. (Paus. ii.8. § 3; Pint Aral. 9; Polyb. ii. 43.) In conse­quence of its being a member of the league, its ter­ritory was devastated, both by Cleomenes, B. c. 2M.1(Plut. Aral. 41, Cleom. 19; Polyb. ii. 52), and bythe Aetolians, B.C. 221. (Polyb. iv. 13.) In tiroKoman wars in Greece, Sicyon was favoured byAttalus, who tiestnwed handsome presents upon it.(Polyb. xvii. 16; Liv. xxxii. 40.) The conquest ofCorinth by the K ana, B. c. 146, was to the ad­vantage of Sicyon, for it obtained the greater part ofthe neighbouring territory and the administration ofthe Isthmian games. (Paus. ii. 2. § 2.) But evenbefore Corinth was rebuilt, Sicyon again declined,and appears in an impoverished state towards theend of the Republic. (Cic. ad Alt i. 19, 20, ii. I.)After the restoration of Curinlh, it still further de­clined, and its ruiu was completed by an earthquake,which destroyed a great part of the city, so thatPausanias found it almost depopulated (ii. 7, § 1 )•The city, however, still continued to exist in thesixth century of the Christian era; fur Hienx les(p. 646, We--.) mentions New Sicyon (Nta 2i-Kvtir) among the chief cities of Achaia. Themaritime town was probably Old Sicyon. Underthe Byzantine empire Sicyon was called Hellas, andthe inhabitants ilelladici, probably in contradis­tinction to the surrounding Slavonic inhabitants.(JZutvuv, fj lie 'EAAdr, Suidas; tuv Son m ■tuv vvvl Ktyo^irwv 'EAAaotKwtv, Malala, iv. p. 68,Bonn.) The name Vasiiilai (to. BcuriAnvd) I i.reference to the ruins of the temples and other publicbuildings. III. Art, cfc.—Sicyon is more renowned in theartistic than in the political history of Greece. Fora long time it was one of the chief scats of Grecianart, and was celebrated alike for its painters andsculptors. According to one tradition painting uasinvented at Sicyon, where Telephanea was the firstto practise the monogram, or drawing in outline