OCR Output TAURIS. TAUROMENIUM. 1113 ifescending into the plains of Italy, found theauriai on hostile terms with the Instibres, and, inxacqoence, turned his arms against them, took>*ir principal city, and put the inhabitants to thowjpL (PoL iii. 60; Lit. xxi. 38,39.) Neither>b;os nor Livj mention the name of this city,n Appian calls it Taurasia (Annib. 5): it was■ situated on the same site which was after-anii occupied by the Roman colony. The name of.f Taurini is not once mentioned during the long*rs of the Romans with the Cisalpine Gauls andicurianj, and we are ignorant of the time when they■ passed under the Roman yoke. Nor have wei* precise account of the foundation of the Romanluy in their territory which assumed the name ofngusia Taurinorum, though it is certain that this•K place under Augustus, and it was doubtless con-*t*d with his final subjugation of the Alpine tribesa.c.8. From this time the name of the Tau-;i never again appears in history as that of aople ; but daring the latter ages of the Romannpire the city of Augusta Taurinorum seems toTr been commonly known (as was the case inwy instances in Transalpine Gaul) by the namethe tribe to which it belonged, and is called simplywnni in the Itineraries, as well as by other writers,fi*. Mat p. 341; ten. Uier. p. 556; Tab. Pent.;..u.ian. xt. 8. § 18.) Hence its modern name ufrmo or Tttrm. This is the only city that we cantfn with any certainty to the Taurini. On the. their territory was bounded (at least in the daysAugustus) by the Segu&iam and the other tribesbject to Cut tins ; and their limit in this directiond-mhtless marked by the station Ad Fines, situ-■d 18 uiilet from Augusta, on the road to Segusioin. Ant. lc). But it appears probable that atearlier period the nation of the Taurini was more*r*j spread, or their name used hi a mure com-■-rii.Te s+nsc, to as to comprise the adjoining«n of the Alps; for Livy speaks of the InsubrianjIi who crossed into Italy, *' per Taurinos sultus-c iuvi«jt> Alnes tninacendernnt" (Liv. r. 34), andabj, in enumerating, after Poly bins, the passesthe Alps, designa es one of them as tV 5ia»pwir (Strab. it. p. 209.). Whether the pa.-**-t meant is the Mont Genivre or the Mont CenUuach disputed point), it would not be included~m the territory of the Taurini in the more re-\ sense, [E. H. B.] TAL'UISh an island of the Ionian sea, between*rus and Corcyra, opposite to the NW. point ofpraiuaula of Hyllis and the mouth of the Naron.'at. B. A. 47.) Now Torcola. [T. H. D.]TAlRISCL [Noriclm, Vol. II. p. 447.]TAUKOEIS, TAUROE'NTIUM (To^Jc.s, Tav-rr*w: Ktk. TavpvivTtot). Steph. B. (*. r. Tau-•i), who calls it a Celtic town and a colonytie Mswliots, quotes the first book of Arte*i-n»' geography for a foolish explanation of theno of the name. The place is mentioned byeaar (B. C. ii. 4), who says "Tauroenta quodraatellam Massiheasium perveniunt;" by Strabopp.l80,184),byScymnus Cbius,and by Ptolemy 10. § S\ who places it between Massilia andAariatea Prornontorium. D'Anville erroneously[<mem that Caesar uses Tauroenta for the plural^.ber ; but it is the accuNative of Tuuroeis. Strabo-p- 184) enumerates the Massaliot settlements be-■en Musilia and the Varus in this order: Tauro-Jam, Olbia, Anti polls Nicaea, Mela (ii. 5) enume-<u the places on this coast in a different order from east to wc.it: Athenopolis, Olbia, Tauroin,Citharistes, and li Lacy dun Massiliensium port us."Ptolemy, as we have seen, places Tauroeis betweenMassilia and Citharistes. In the Maritime Itin. thepositions 1 etween Telo Marti us (Toulon) and Im-madrus seem to be out of order [Immadkus]; andthey are to be placed thus — Aemines (Embitz),Tauroeis(Taurenti), Citharista [Citii AitisTA].Car-sici (Cassis), Immadrus, Massilia. Geographershave been much divided in opiniou on tiie site ofTauroeis, but the modern name seems to determinethe place to be at the right of the entry of the bayof Ciotat. [G. L.J TAUROME'NIUM (Javpouiviov; Eth. Tovpo-ficv'iTwt, Tauromenilanus: Taonnma), a Greek cityof Sicily, situated on the E. coast of Sicily, aboutmidway between Messana and Cat ana. It was onlyabout 3 miles from the Mte of the ancient Naxos,and there is no doubt that Tauromenium did notexist as a city till after the destruction of Naxos byDionysius of Syracuse, b. c. 403; but the circum­stances connected with its foundation are somewhatconfused and uncertain. [Naxos.] It appears,however, from Diodorus that after the destruction ofNaxos, the remaining inhabitants of that city weredriven into exile, and its territory was assigned byDionysius to the neighbouring Siculi. These, how­ever, did not re-occupy the site of the ancient city,but established themselves on a hill to the N. of it,which was called the hill of Taurus (6 \u<poi A *ro-\oufAfvos Tavpos), Here they at first constructedonly a temporary camp (in B.C. 396), but after­wards erected walls and converted it into a regularfortress or town, to which they gave the name ofTauromenium. (Diod. xiv. 58, 59.) The placewas still in the hands of the Siculi in b. c. 394,and they held it against the efforts of Dionysius,who besieged the city in vain fur great part of thewinter, and though he on one occasion forced hisway within the walls by a nocturnal surprise, wasagain driven out and repulsed with heavy loss. (Ib.87, 88.) But by the peace concluded in b. c. 392,it was expressly stipulated that Tauromenium shouldbe subject to Dionysius, who expelled the greaterpart uf the Siculi that had settled there, and suppliedtheir place with his own mercenaries. (Ib. 96.)From this time we hear no more of Tauromeniumtill n. c. 358, when we are told that Andromachus,the father of the historian Timaeus, brought to­gether all the remains of the exiled Naxians, whowere still scattered about in different parts of Sicily,and established them all at Tauromenium. (Id. xvi.7.) This is related by Diodorus as if it were a newfoundation, aisd even as if the name had then firstbeen applied to the city, which is in direct contra­diction with his former statements. What had In­come of the former inhabitants we know not, butthere is little doubt that the account of this re­settlement of the city is substantially correct, andthat Tauromenium now for the first time became aGreek city, which was considered as taking theplace of Naxos, though it did not occupy the samesite. (Wesseling, ad Diod, xiv. 59.) Hence Pliny'sexpression, that Tauromenium had formerly beencalled Naxos (Plin. iii. 8. a, 14) is nearly, thoughnot strictly, correct. The new settlement seems to have risen rapidly toprosperity, and was apparently already a consider­able town at the time of the expedition of Timoleonin B.C. 345. It was the first place in Sicily wherethat leader landed, having eluded the vigilance of