OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 179 sending directions to those who were in the lesser cita­del to take care of themselves, he decamped by night.On which, setting fire to the houses there, in order toobstruct any operations of the enemy, they hastenedaway, as if flying from a pursuit, and overtook themain body of their army at the close of day. 8. When Scipio saw both citadel and camp de­serted by the enemy, he summoned the Locrensians toan assembly, rebuked them severely for their revolt,inflicted punishment on the chief promoters of it, andbestowed their effects on the leaders of the oppositefaction, as a reward for their extraordinary fidelity to­wards the Romans. As to the community of the Lo­crensians, he said, ' he would neither make any grantto them, nor take any thing from them. Let themsend ambassadors to Rome, where they would obtainsuch a settlement of their affairs as the senate shouldjudge reasonable. Of this he was confident, that,though they had deserved harsh treatment from thegreatly provoked Romans, they would yet enjoy abetter state in subjection to them, than under theirprofessed friends the Carthaginians.' Then, leavingQuintus Pleminius, lieutenant-general, with the troopswhich had taken the citadel, to defend the city, he re­turned to Messana with the forces which he hadbrought from thence. The Locrensians, after theirrevolt from the Romans, had been treated by the Car­thaginians with such haughtiness and cruelty, thatthey could now have endured a lesser degree of seve­rity not only with patience, but almost with content.But in all excesses, so much did Pleminius surpassHamilcar, who had commanded their garrison, and theRoman soldiers the Carthaginians, that there seemedto be a greater emulation between them in vices than inarms. Not one of those acts, which render the powerof a superior odious to the helpless, was left unprac­tised on the inhabitants by the commander or his troops:the roost shocking insults were offered to their persons,to their children, and to their wives. Nor did theiravarice refrain even from the plundering of things sa-