OCR Output 944 SCYTHIA. SCYT1IIA. N. being supposed to begin with the watershed of theIrtish, Obi, and other rivers falling into the ArcticOcean. Within the limits thus described we mayplace the A'or-osbi and A*or-ossi, on the easternedge, i. e. in the parts where at the present momentthe lakes distinguished by the name Nor occur.It should be added, however, that the syllable isgenerally final, as in Koko-nort &c> Still it is aprominent element in compound names, and indi­cates Mongol occupancy. The Byltae may be placedin Bulti-$tany i. e. the country ot' the Bulti — LittleTibet, the gloss being Persian, In Ascatancas (the Greek spelling is the moreconvenient Affxavra7*f-as), we have the Turkish-tagh —mountain just as it actually occurs in num­berless com pounds. Karait is a name of common application, chieflyto members of the Mongol family. Mass-agctae is a term full of difficulty. Can ithave arisen out of the common name Mtis-tag? In Scythia extra Imaum, the Casia and Achats*(gaps*) may be made one and identified with theCesii of Pliny. Tlie most reasonable explanationsof these names is to lie found in the suggestion ofMajor Cunningham's valuable work on Ladak (p.4), where the Achassa Wv^xo — Ladakh, and theChatae, and Chauronae Scythae = CJtang-thatigandKhor respectively. Roughly speaking, we may say that the countrynf the Sacae was formed by an irregular tract ofland on the head-waters of the Ozoa and the water­shed between it and the Jaxarles, a tract whichincluded a portion of the drainage of the Indus. Itis only a portion of this that could give the recog­nised conditions of Scythian life, viz. steppes andpasturages. These might be founded on the greattable land of Tamer, but not in the mountain dis­tricts. These, however, were necessary for u resi­dences in woods and caves"; at the same time, thepopulation that occupied them might lie pastoralrather than agricultural. Still they would not be ofthe Scythian typo. Nor is it likely that the Sacae ofPtolemy were so. They were not, indeed, the Sacaeof Herodotus, except in part, i. e. on thfl desert ofthe Persian frontier. They were rather the moun­taineers of Kaferistan, Wakhan, Shugnan, Roskan,Astor, Hunz-Nagor, atld Liltte Tibet, partly Per­sian, partly Bhot (or Tibetan), in respect to theirethnology. The Scythians beyond the Imaus.—These mustbe divided between Ladakh, Tibet, Chinese Tartar?/,and Mongolia in respect to their geography. Phy­sically they come within the conditions of a Scythianoccupancy; except where they are true mountaineers.Ethnologically they may he distributed between theMongol, Bhot, and Turk families — the Turks beingthose of Chinese Tartary. The Turcoman districts of the Oxus, Khiva, theKirghiz country, Ferghana, Tashkend, with theparts about the Balkash, give 01 the Scythiawithin the Imaus, It coincides chiefly with Inde­pendent Tartary, with tlie addition of a small por­tion of Mongolia and southern Siberia. Its condi­tions are generally Scythian. In the upper part,however, of the daxartcs, the districts are agricul­tural at present; nine-tenths of tins area is Turk,jart of the population being Nomadcs, part indus­trial and agricultural. The Scythia or the Byzantine Authors.—This means not only liunns, Avars, Aluns, and Sar-matians, but even Germans, Goths, and Vandals, It is used, however, but rarely. It n»IW cuamionly in books of geography. Even div»* a titScythian name was known under its sjeofie <naf* nation, Ktiinologt.—If any name of uitiqUT bt methnological, rather than a geographical, twiu Uatname is Scythia. Ptolemy alone applies it to eiarea, irrespective of the races of its otenpuU.every earlier writer it means a numter dtions connected by certain ethnologicaltics. These were physical and moral—finaa\as when Hippocrates describes the Srytkaa *siognomy; moral, as when their nomadic babtvaHamaxobii and Hippemolgi. are pat fanrariiitincture. Of language as a test less notice a ofthough (by Herodotus at least) it is hj >■ ■overlooked. The division between Srytiantnon-Scythian is always kept in view by boa,the non-Scythic populations, the Saoruastatone; hence the ethnology of Scythia invulmtfSarmatia, both being heie treated together. In respect to them, there is no little daoajof opinion amongst modern inveMigaiocv Taiquestion respecting them, however, has fasflswered unanimously. Are they represented by any of thesions of mankind, or are they extinct? Itlikely that such vast families as each »«*ajhave been has died out Assuming, the*, tbtsent existence of the congeners ot beta ua 9inatae and the Scytbae. in what famDy « oasflthey to be fonnd? The Scythae wen of tat >]the Sarmatae of the SUvono-Litfauanic stock. The evidence of this, along with anthe chief differences of opinion. will new atScythia being dealt with first. FrnmaflgSBfmeans all the populations whose lanpewgtawthat of the Ottomans of Constantinople, suitcomprises the Turcomans, the Ind*ptooa*t 1the Uzbeks, the Turks of Chinese Tartary,*the Yakuts of the Lena, along with seratribes of less importance, we may examafpriori probabilities of the Scythae Lavj£ Ithis extended sense, Turks, The situs of the nations of Soath-waaWsia, &c., at the beginning of the proper hiperiod, is a presumption in favour of taar aOf these the best to begin with are the(12th century) of VoUkynia. That theywe know from special statements, and manof their language compared with that cc'tbe 1of Independent Tartary. There is no pre*?being new comers, however much the da*"their recent emigration may bare been pa*assumed. The Uzes were what the Oilwere; and before the Uses, the Paaiaaaicentury) of Bessarabia anil the DanabMSpalities were what the Ures were, ferial las]Patzinaks, the Chazars ruled in Kkermm ausjrida (7th and 8th centuries) like thethe same category with definitely knownand Uzes. These four populations are alby writers who knew the true Turks aand, knowing them, may be relied ceLledge, however, dates only from the rtinian [TrjBCAJc]. From the reign,tiniao to the loth century (the dale ofof the Cumaninns), the HerodateaaTurk — Turk without evidence of the 1being recent. The Avars precede the Chazars, the