OCR Output 190 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. to Anlipater, which when he perceived, he retired beyond Jordan,and got together an army, partly of Arabs, and partly of hisown countrymen. However Mulichus being one of great cun­ning, denied that he had laid any snares for him, and made hisdefence with an oath, both to himself and his sons; and said, thatwhile Phasaelus had a garrison in Jerusalem, and Herod had theweapons of war in his custody, he could never have a thoughtof any such thing. So Antipater, perceiving the distress thatMalichus was in, was reconciled to him, and made an agree­ment with him; this was when Marcus was president of Syria;who yet perceiving that this Malichus was making a disturbancein Judea, proceeded so far that he had almost killed him, butstill at the intercession of Antipater he saved him. 4. However, Antipater little thought that by saving Mali­chus, he had saved his own murderer: for now Cassius andMarcus had got together an army, and intrusted the entire careof it with Herod, and made him general of the Ibrces ot Ccele-syria, and gave him a fleet of ships, and an army of horsemenand footmen; and promised him, that after the war was overthey would make him king of Judea, for a war was already be­gun between Antony and the younger Cassar; But as Malichuswas most afraid of Antipater, he took him out of the way; andby the offer of money, persuaded the butler of Hyrcanus, withwhom they were both to feast, to kill him by poison. Thisbeing done, and he having armed men with him, settled the af­fairs of the city. But when Antipater's sons, Herod and Pha-saalus, were acquainted with this conspiracy against their father,and had indignation at it, Malichus denied all, and utterly re­nounced any knowledge of the murder. And thus died Anti­pater, a man that had distinguished himself for piety and justice,and love to his country. And whereas one of his sons, Herod,resolved immediately to revenge their father's death, and wascoming upon Malichus with an army for that purpose, the el­der of his sons, Phasaelus, thought it best rather to get this maninto their hands by policy, lest they should appear to begin acivil war in the country; so he accepted of Malichus' defencefor himself, and pretended to believe him that he had no handin the violent death of Antipater his father, but erected a finemonument for him. Herod also went to Samaria, and when hefound them in great distress, he revived their spirits, and com­posed their differences. 5. However, a little after this, Herod, upon the approach o[a festival, came with his soldiers unto the city; whereupon Mp-liclms was affrighted, and persuaded Hyrcanus not to permithim to come into the city. Hyrcanus complied; and, for apretence of excluding him, alleged, that a rout of strangers