OCR Output 580 rERUSIA. rEKUSIA. Etruria, situated nearly on tlio eastern frontier oftlmt country, on a lofty hill on the right hank of tlieTiber, and overlooking the lake of Thrasymenewhich now derives from it tlie name of Lngo diPtruffia. It closely adjoins the frontiers of Umbria,and hence the tradition reported by Servius, that itwas originally an Umbrian city, inhabited by thetribe railed Sarsinates, is at least a very probableone. (Serv. wl Aen. s. 201.) The same authorhas, however, preserved to us another tradition,which ascribes the foundation of I'erusia to a heronamed Auletes, the brother of Onus, the reputedfounder of Mantua. (/£». x. 198.) Justin's assertionthat it was of Achaean origin (xx. 1) may Ik* safelyrejected as a mere fable; but whatever historicalvalue may be attached to the statements of Serrius,it seems probable that I'erusia, in common with theother chief places in the same part of Etruria, wasin the first instance an Umbrian city, and sub­sequently passed into the hands of the Etruscans,under whom it rose to be a powerful and importantcity, and one of the chief members of the Etruscanconfederacy. It is not till B. c. 310, when theRomans hud carried their arms beyond the Ciminianforest, that the name of Perusia is heard of in his­tory; but we are told that at that period it was oneof the in..st powerful cities of Etruria. (Liv. ix. 37.)The three neighbouring cities of Perusia,-Cortona,and Arretium, on that occ:ision united in concludinga peace with Rome for thirty years (Liv. I.e.; Diod.xx. 35): but they seem to have broken it the verynext year, and shared in the great defeat of theEtruscans in general at the Vadiinonian lake. Thiswas followed by another defeat under the walls ofPerusia itself, which compelled that city to sue forpeace; but the statement that it surrendered at dis­cretion, and was occupied with a Roman garrison, isone of those obvious perversions of tlie truth thatoccur so frequently in the Roman annals. (Liv. ix.40.) When we next meet with the name of I'erusia,it is still as an independent and powerful state,which in B.C. 295, in conjunction with Clusium,was able to renew the war with limne; and thoughtheir combined forces were defeated by Cn. Fulvius,the Peruvians took the lead in renewing the contestthe next year. On this occasion they were againdefeated with heavy loss by I'abius, 4500 of theirtroops slain, and above 1700 taken prisoners. (Id. x.30, 31.) In consequence of this disaster they werecompelled before the close of the year to sue forpeace, and, by the payment of a large stun of money,obtained a truce tor forty years, B. c. 204. (Id. x.37.) At this time Livy still calls the three cities ofPerusia, Volsinii, and Arretium (all of which madepeace at the same time) the three most powerfulstates and chief cities of Etruria. (Id. I.e.) We hud no other mention of I'erusia as an in­dependent state; and we have no explanation of thecircumstances or terms under which it ultimatelybecame, a. dependency of flume. ttut during theSecond Punic War it figures among the allied citieswhich then formed so important a jart of the Romanpower; its cohorts were serving in her armies (Liv. |xxiii. 17), and towards the end of the content it wasone of the " popult " of Etruria which came forwardwith alacrity to furnish supplies to the fleet ofScipio. Its contribution consisted of corn, and tim­ber tor shipbuilding. (Id. xxviii. 45.) With thisexception, we meet with no other mention of Perusiatill near the close of the republican period, when itbore so conspicuous a part in the civil war between Octavian and L. Antonius,in b.c.*A,iitopi\ithat contest the name of liellum lVratiQcm. (tw.Aug. !>; Tac. Ann. v. 1; Ores, u 18.) It mshortly after the outbreak of hostilities on tint oc­casion that L. Antonius, finding himself pre**! <aall sides by three armies under Agxippa, Siintiwa,and Octavian himself, threw himself into fenta,trusting in the great natural strength of ifcentjtoenable him to hold out till the arrival of his zeaik,Ventidius and Asinius Pollio, to hu relief. IKwhether from disaffection or incapacity,these <titnfailed in coming to his support, and (iclaviiD so-rounded the whole hill on which the city vrjwith strong lines of circumvallatiorj, & to to cutoff from all supplies, especially in the udt <f t»Tiber, on which Antonius had mainly refiei Fauaa*soon made itself felt in the city; the sie^c to p-tracted through the winter, and Ventidiiain an attempt to compel Octavian to nueU,***drew off his forces without success. L Axicanow made a desperate attempt to break thn«.'liUienemy's lines, but was repulsed with great ^atf****and found himself at length compelled Xo cxp£i\AHis own lite was spared, as were tint* of mat <s'i*Roman nobles who had accompanied hirri; but t*>chief citizens of I'erusia itself were put to drt'i'iicity given up to plunder, and an aendeaui o*d*gration having been spread by the wind, tre«dconsuming the whole city. (Appian, B.C.^-3H49; Dion Cass, xlviii. 14; Veil Pat. iL 7*; FNiv. 5; Suet, Aug. 14. 96.) A story told frywriters of Octavian having sacrificed 300 d Aprisoners at an altar coti>ecrated to the ixn*of Caesar, is in all probability a fiction, or i* Man exaggeration. (Dion Cass. L c.; Sirt. i*J VSenec. Clem, i. 11; Merivale's Kuma* £*f*vol. iii. p. 227.) Perusia was raised from its ashes sgsin ■gustus, who settled a fresh body of otneai laand the city assumed in consequence the surac*Augusta Perusia, which we hud it btarx; ■script ions; but it did not obtain the rank ur uiia colony; and its territory was contned t*trict within a mile of the walls. (l>irm C«-ii14; Orell. Inscr. 93—95, 608.) NotwithaaBthis restriction, it appears to hare speeciij Iagain into a flourishing municipal town. Us**by Strabo as one of the chief towns in theEtruria, and its municipal consideration c- »3by numerous inscriptions. (Strab. v. p. 226; 1iii. 5. s. S; Ptol. iii. 1. § 48; Tub. PeuL: Orrk I2531,3739,4038.) F rom one of thes* w 1that it acquired under the Roman Err^tR tinof Colonia Vibia; but tlie origin of this a sabthough it is probable that it was derived tr«emperor Trebonianus Gall us, »bo ippean ^bestowed some conspicuous benefits \& ti* j(Veriniglioli, Iscriz. Perug. pp. 379—400; hik Colon, p. 436.) The name ot Vcnasa iagain mentioned in history ulj ai'lex th* tiu <lioiuan Empire, but its natural strengia oc pirendered it a place of importance in th* tntimes that followed; and it figures oonfpavMthe Gothic wars, when it is called bv i*n*^strong foi tress and the chief city of Ettv-iwas taken by Belisarioa in a. r>. 537. aut «with a strong garrison: in 547 it wasTotila, but held out against Wis arms f>cyears, and did not surrender till after fcVj-^nquitted Italy. Jt was again rewvned b' \i552. (Procop.fi. 6' i. 16, 17, iii 6,25,35 i