OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 6l and boldness continually increased; and the Heruli, the.wildest barbarians in the service of the empire, overturnedthe priests and their relics, which, from a pious motive,had been rashly interposed to separate the bloody con­flict. The tumult was exasperated by this sacrilege, thepeople fought with enthusiasm in the cause of God;the women from the roofs and windows showered stoneson the heads of the soldiers, who darted firebrandsagainst the houses; and the various flames, which hadbeen kindled by the hands of citizens and strangers,spread without control over the face of the city. The con­flagration involved the cathedral of St. Sophia, the bathsof Zeuxippus, a part of the palace from the first entranceto the altar of Mars, and the long portico from the palaceto the forum of Constantine; a large hospital, with thesick patients, was consumed ; many churches and statelyedifices were destroyed, and an immense treasure of goldand silver was either melted or lost. From such scenesof horror and distress, the wise and wealthy citizens es­caped over the Bosphorus to the Asiatic side ; and, duringfive days, Constantinople was abandoned to the factions,whose watchword, Nik a, vanquish ! has given a name tothis memorable sedition/ As long as the factions were divided, the triumphant The di«-blues, and desponding greens, appeared to behold with jujunUn.the same indifference the disorders of the state. Theyagreed to censure the corrupt management of justice andthe finance; and the two responsible ministers, the artfulTribonian, and the rapacious John of Cappadocia, wereloudly arraigned as the authors of the public misery.The peaceful murmurs of the people would have beendisregarded; they were heard with respect when the citywas in flames; the quaestor, and the prefect, were in­stantly removed, and their offices were filled by two 'The history of the Nika sedition is extracted from Marcelliims, (in Chroo.)Proct>pios,(Persic. lib. 1.e. 26) John Malala, (tom. 2. p. 213 c. 218.)Chron. Paschal,(p. 336—340.) Theophaqcs, (Chronograph, p. 151—158.) and Zonaras. (lib. 14.p. 61—63.) . .