OCR Output 240 ROMAN EMPIRE. sence of Otho the great. As John XII. had renouncedthe dress and decencies of his profession, the soldiermay not perhaps be dishonoured by the wine which hedrank, the blood that he spilt, the flames that he kin­dled, or the licentious pursuits of gaming and hunting.His open simony might be the consequence of distress:and his blasphemous invocation of Jupiter and Venus,if it be true, could not possibly be serious. But weread with some surprise, that the worthy grandson ofMarozia lived in public adultery with the matrons ofRome; that the Lateran palace was turned into aschool for prostitution, and that his rapes of virginsand widows had deterred the female pilgrims from vi­siting the tomb of St. Peter, lest, in the devout act theyshould be violated by his successor." The Protestantshave dwelt with malicious pleasure on these charactersof antichrist; but to a philosophic eye, the vices ofthe clergy are far less dangerous than their virtues.After a long series of scandal, the apostolic see Reforms- . - , i i i i •' tion and was reformed and exalted by the austerity andihe'church, zeal of Gregory VII. That ambitious monkA.D.1073. devoted his life to the execution of two pro­jects. I. To fix in the college of cardinals thefreedom and independence of election, and for ever toabolish the right or usurpation of the emperors and theRoman people. II. To bestow and resume the wes­tern empire as a fief or benefice' of the church, and toextend his temporal dominion over kings and kingdomsof the earth. After a contest of fifty years, the first ofthese designs was accomplished by the firm support of 'Lateranense palatium .... proatibulum meretricum Testis omnium gentium, praterquam Romanorum, absentia mulierum, qua sanctorum apostolo •nun limina orandi gratia timent visere, cum nonnullas ante dies paucos, hunc au-dierint conjugatas viduas, virgines vi oppressisse. (Lautprand, Hist. lib. 6. c. 6.p. 471. See the whole affair of John XII. p. 471—i76.) 'A new example of the mischief of equivocation is the beneficium (Ducange.torn. 1. p. 617, &c.) which the pope conferred on the emperor Frederic I. sincethe Latin word may signify either a legal fief, or a simple favour, an obligation,(we want the word bivnfait.) See Schmid, Hist, des Allemands, torn. 3. p. 398—408. Pfeflel, Abrege Chronologique, torn. 1. p. 329. 296. 317. 324. 420. 43O,500. 505. 509, &c.