OCR Output 146 DECLINE AND FALL JcHAP. XLI. their blood; support, with some impatience, the Saxon,or Prussian yoke; and serve with secret and voluntaryallegiance, the descendant of their ancient kings, whoin his garb and present fortune is confounded with themeanest of his vassals.p The name and situation of thisunhappy people might indicate their descent from onecommon stock with the conquerors of Africa. But theuse of a Sclavonian dialect more clearly represents themas the last remnant of the new colonies, who succeededto the genuine Vandals, already scattered or destroyedin the age of Procopius.9«nd"defatt If Belisarius had been tempted to hesitate in his afle-Moots. giance, he might have urged, even against the empe-a.d.535. ror himself, the indispensable duty of saving Africafrom an enemy more barbarous than the Vandals. Theorigin of the Moors is involved in darkness; they wereignorant of the use of letters/ Their limits cannotbe precisely denned: a boundless continent was opento the Libyan shepherds; the change of seasons andpastures regulated their motions; and their rude hutsand slender furniture were transported with the sameease as their arms, their families, and their cattle, whichconsisted of sheep, oxen, and camels.5 During thevigour of the Roman power, they observed a respect­ful distance from Carthage and the sea-shore; underthe feeble reign of the Vandals, they invaded the citiesof Numidia, occupied the sea-coast from Tangier to r From the month of the great elector (in 1687), Tollios describes tho secret roy­alty and rebellious spirit of the Vandals of Brandenburgh, who could .muster fire orsix thousand soldiers who had procured some cannon, &c. (Itinerar. Hungar. p. 42.apud Dubos, Hist, de la Monarchic Fraucoise, tom. 1. p. 182,183.) The veracity,not of the elector, but of Tollius himself/ may justly be suspected. 4 Proeopius (lib. 1. c. 22.) was in total darkness—mtt fsrpfsv tic cuSe aiofsa ec tfxsenterat. Under the reign of Dagobert, (A. D. 630.) the Sclavonian tribes of theSorhi and Venedi already bordered on Thuringia. (Mascou, Hist, of the Germans, 15.3—5.) * Sallust represents the Moors as a remnant of the army of Heracles (de Bell, Ju-gurth, c. 21.) and Proeopins, (Vandal, lib. 2. c. 10.) as the posterity of the Cananaeanswho fled from the robber Joshua (*hjt>i;). He quotes two columns, with a Phoeni­cian-inscription. I believe in the columns—I doubt the inscription—and I reject thepedigree. • Virgil (Georgic. 3. 339.) and Pomponius Mela, (1. 8.) describe the wanderingrife of the African shepherds, similar to that of the Arabs and Tartars; and Shaw(p. 222.) is the best commentator on the poet and the geographer.