OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL abundantly supplied with ships, provisions, batteringengines, and military stores. But we may rest assured,from the love of glory, and contempt of danger, whichformed the character of Julian, that he was not dis­couraged by any trivial or imaginary obstacles *.—At the very time when he declined the siege ofCtesiphon, he rejected, with obstinacy and disdain,the most flattering offers of a negotiation of peace.Sapor, who had been so long accustomed to the tardyostentation of Constantius, was surprised by the in­trepid diligence of his successor. As far as the confinesof India and Scythia, the satraps of the distant pro­vinces were ordered to assemble their troops, and tomarch, without delay, to the assistance of their mon­arch. But their preparations were dilatory, theirmotions slow; and before Sapor could lead an armyinto the field, he received the melancholy intelligenceof the devastation of Assyria, the ruin of his palaces,and the slaughter of his bravest troops, who defendedthe passage of the Tigris. The pride of royalty washumbled in the dust; he took his repasts on theground; and the disorder of his hair expressed thegrief and anxiety of his mind. Perhaps he wouldnot have refused to purchase, with one half of hiskingdom, the safety of the remainder; and he wouldhave gladly subscribed himself, in a treaty of peace,the faithful and dependent ally of the Roman con­queror. Under the pretence of private business, aminister of rank and confidence was secretly de­spatched to embrace the knees of Hormisdas, and torequest, in the language of a suppliant, that he mightbe introduced into the presence of the emperor. TheSassanian prince, whether he listened to the voice of * Civitas inexpugnabilis, facinus audax et importunum. Ammianus, xxiv.7. His fellow,soldier, Eutropius, turns aside from the difficulty, Assyriamquepopulatiis, castra apud Ctcsiphontem stativa aliquandiu habuit: remeansquevictor, 4c. x. 16. Zosimus is artful or ignorant, and Socrates inaccurate.