OCR Output 44 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. CHAP. XX. Nuata teaches religious rites. AN the next place, he set about the creation of priests*. although many of these offices he performed tUperson,particularly in the department of priest of Jupiter. Butas in a military state, he foresaw there would be morekings of the disposition of Romulus, than of Numa, whowould head their armies in person; that the religiousduties incumbent on the king might not suffer, in themean time, he instituted a priest who should constantlyattend on the service of Jupiter, and distinguished himty a rich robe and royal curule chair. To him he addedtwo other priests, one for Mars, and another for Romu-Jus. He likewise made an election of vestal virgins, aninstitution of Alban extraction, with which the founderof the city was materially connected. To these he ap­pointed salaries out of the treasury, because their atten­dance in the temple admitted of no avocation. Theirvirginity, which was perpetual, and ceremonies attend­ing their ordination, rendered their order venerable a'ndsacred. He likewise appointed twelve Salii,* for Mars Gradi-vus,f whose badge of distinction"~was an embroideredcoat, and a breast-plate of brass to be wore above it.The business of this order was to carry the celestial arms,called Ancilia,\ and to walk through the streets singingin concert, and dancing in the comic and serious stile.Then from the Patrician order he chose Numa Marcius,the son of Marcus, for hjghjgriest, to whom he delivereda system of religious'ceremonies in manuscript, signedand sealed, ascertaining the sacrifices, the days when,and temples where they should be offered ; and the fundsn;hence money to defray the expence should be drawn. AH other things, public and private, respecting theworship of the gods, he submitttd to the judgment ofthe high priest; that the people might never be at a loss * From SaKus, the leader of a band of musicians, brought byEvander. f From Gradient, denoting the regular inarch to an attack.I From'