OCR Output B. III. YEAR IV. BEFORE CHRIST 428. battlements, and sheltering themselves in the turrets, as nearat hand and covered over-head, there they continued theirwatch. Such was the form of the work by which the Plataeanswere inclosed on every side. The enterprising body, when every thing was ready, layinghold of the opportunity of a night tempestuous with windand rain, and further at a dark moon, marched out of theplace. The persons, who had been authors of the project,were now the conductors. And first, they passed the ditchwhich surrounded the town ; then they approached quite upto the wall of the enemy, undiscovered by the guards. Thedarkness of the night prevented their being seen, and thenoise they made in approaching was quite drowned in theloudness of the storm. They advanced also at a great dis足tance from one another, to prevent any discovery from themutual clashing of their arms. They were further armed inthe most compact manner, and wore a covering only on theleft foot, for the sake of treading firmly in the mud. Atoneof the intermediate spaces between the turrets they got underthe battlements, knowing they were not manned. The bear足ers of the ladders went first and applied them to the wall.Then twelve light-armed with only a dagger and a breast足plate scaled, led by Ammeas the son of Choraebus., who wasthe first that mounted. His followers, in two parties of sixeach, mounted next on each side of the turrets. Then otherlight-armed with javelins succeeded them. Behind cameothers holding the bucklers of those above them, thus to faci足litate their ascent, and to be ready to deliver them into theirhands, should they be obliged to charge. When the greaterpart of the number was mounted, the watchmen within theturrets perceived it. For one of the Plataeans, in fasteninghis hold, had thrown down a tile from off the battlements,which made a noise in the fall; and immediately was shoutedan alarm. The whole camp came running towards the wall,yet unable to discover the reason of this alarm, so dark was Vol. I. 2 T