OCR Output 18 [boor I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to God,* and feasted with his companions.However, the Armenians call this placeA*o€a7^&ov,t the place of descent: for the Arkbeing saved in that place, its remains areshewed by the inhabitants of this day. Now all the writers of profane history make f mention of this flood, and of this ark, among whom is Berosus, the Chaldean; for when he was describing the circumstances of the flood, he goes on thus: "It is said there is still some part of theship, in Armenia, at the mountain of the Cor-jj dyeeans; and that some people carry offpieces of the bitumen, which they take away,and use, chiefly as amulets, for the avertingof mischiefs." Hieronymus the Egyptian also,who wrote the Phoenician Antiquities; andManaseas, and many more make mention ofthe same. Nay, Nicolaus of Damascus, inhis ninety-sixth Book, hath a particular rela­tion about them, where he speaks thus:"There is a great mountain in Armenia,over Minyas, called Baris; upon which it isreported that many who fled at the time ofthe deluge were saved; and that one whowas carried in an ark, came on shore uponthe top of it, and that the remains of thetimber were a great while preserved: thismight be the man about whom Moses, thelegislator of the Jews wrote." But as for Noah, he was afraid, since Godhad determined to destroy mankind, lest heshould drown the earth every year. So heoffered burnt offerings, and besought Godthat nature might hereafter go on in its formerorderly course, and that he would not bringon so great a judgment any more, by whichthe whole race of creatures might be in dan­ger of destruction; but that, having nowpunished the wicked, he would of his good­ness spare the remainder, and such as he hadhitherto judged fit to be delivered from sosevere a calamity; for that otherwise theselast must be more miserable than the first, andthat they must be condemned to a worse con­dition than the others, unless they be suffered * Gen. viii. 20. t This place of descent is the proper interpretation ofthe Armenian name of this city. It is called in PtolemyNaxuana, and by Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian His­torian, Idsheuan; but at the place itself Nichidsheuan,which signifies the first place of descent; and is a lastingmonument of the preservation of Noah in the Ark uponthe top of that Mountain, at whose foot it was built, as the to escape entirely; that as, if they be reservedfor another deluge, while they must be af­flicted with the terror and the sight of thedeluge, and must also be destroyed by asecond. He also intreated God to accept ofhis sacrifice, and to grant, that the earthmight never again undergo the like effects ofhis wrath; that men might be permitted togo on cheerfully in cultivating the same; tobuild cities, and live happily in them; andthat they might not be deprived of any ofthose good things which they enjoyed beforethe flood; but might attain to the old agewhich the ancient people had arrived at be­fore. When Noah had made these supplications,God, who loved the man for his righteousness,granted his prayers: and said, "that it wasnot he who brought the destruction on a pol­luted world, but that they underwent thatvengeance on account of their own wicked­ness; and that he had not brought men intothe world if he had himself determined to de­stroy them; it being an instance of greaterwisdom not to have granted them life at all,than, after it was granted to procure theirdestruction. But the injuries," said he, "•theyoffered to my holiness and virtue, forced mejto bring this punishment upon them; but I will/leave off for the time to come to require suchpunishments, the effects of so great wrath,for their future wicked actions; and especiallyon account of thy prayers. But if I shall atany time send tempests of rain in an extra­ordinary manner, be not affrighted at thecopiousness of the showers, for the watershall no more overspread the earth. HoweverI require you to abstain from shedding theblood of men, and to keep yourselves purefrom murder, and to punish those who com­mit any such thing; I permit you to make useof all the other living creatures, at your plea­sure, and as your appetites lead you; for Ihave made you lords of them all; both ofthose that walk on the land, and those thatswim in the waters, and of those that fly in first city or town after the flood. See Antiq. xx. 2, andMoses Chorenensis, page 71—72. Who also says, page19, that, another town was related by tradition to havebeen called Seron, or the place of dispersion, on accountof the first dispersion of Xisuthrus's or Noah's sons fromthence. Whether any remains of this Ark be still pre •served, as the people of the country suppose, I cannot cei-tainly tell. • •