OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 84 B aoftbt Subli< i an bridge; whilst Becker, in his ■ Jfrru, held them (o belong to the Puns Acini-i. Tint writer in the treatise alluded to (p.!,•«).) nude three assertions respecting the Ae-iua bridpe; (1) That it was not the same as the run; (2) that it stood where the Sublirian isUMljr placed, i. e. just below the Porta Trige-u; (3) that it was distinct from the Pons La­ma, or Lepidi. But in his llatidbuch, published: '.ic following Tear, he rejected ail thesentiooft except the first. According to the most probable view of thisnote and much disputed question at which weimre, the matter appears to us to have stoodfcuMi: the Puna Subliciu* wu outside of theu Trigemina, at the place where remains of algt >tiU exist. The reasons for arriving at thisioaoa have been stated at the beginning of thit>wean. Another bridge, of stone, also calledon as, was ended close to it to serve the pur-s «ti traffic; but the wooden one was still pre-*1 at a venerable and sacred relic, and as to-inuWe in certain ancient religious ceremonies,i ai tae precipitating fruin it the two dozen menbav. But the stone bridge had also anothert, tiiat rf LapidetUj by way of distinction from ■ ■den bridge. rcier t» of opinion that the notion of Aelhicus, or ■ Orator, tiiat Pons LapiJtus was only a vulgar': t Pons Lepidit is a " falsae eruditionis con- and we think so too. We do not believeli» bridge ever bore the name of Lcpidus.•ayw from the account given of the woodenJ iij Diuoyaius, that, though preserved in his,4 is* useless fur ail practical purposes (iii. 45). We may be sure that the pontifices would not havetaken upon themselves the repairs of a bridge subjectto the wear and tear of daily traffic. Ovid {Fastv. 622) adverts to its existence, and to the sacredpurposes to which it was applied : — "Tunc quoque priscorum virgo simulacra virorumMitten roboreo scirpea ponte solet." The coexistence of the two bridges, the genuinewooden t-ublioian, and its stone substitute, is shownin the following passage of Plutarch: ot» yap0 ■ un in1, oAA' itraparov rfyuaQai 'Pwnaiovt T^JPKard\vfftv tjjj fuAirni ytQvpai ... 'H 6c \i$lvnwoWols vartpuv ^tipyaadn y_p6vois tnr' Ai/xt\iovrafxievotnos. {Num. 9.) Still more decisive isthe testimony of Servius: " Cum per Suhliciumpontem, hoc est ligneuin, qui modo lapidcus dicitur,transire conaretur (Poraena)" (ad A en. viii. 646).There must certainly have been n strung and prac­ticable bridge at an early period at this place, forthe heavy traffic occasioned by the neighbourhood ofthe Emporium; but when it was first erected cannotbe said. The words of Plutarch, inr' AlfjuK'tov rafii-tvovros, are obscure, and perhaps corrupt; but atall events we must not confound this notice withthat in Livy respecting the building of the PonsAemilius ; the piles of which were laid in the cen­sorship of M. Aemilius Lepidus and M. FulviusXobilior, B.C. 179, and the arches completed someyean afterw ards, when P. Scipio African us and L.Mummius were censors (xl. 51). There is no proofthat the Ponte Rotto is the Pons Aemilius; butBecker, in his second \iew, and Canina assume thatit was; and this view is us probable as any other. I II■; UN \, WITH THE PONS FABRIC US AND PONS CESTIL'S. ** em several bridges at Rome before the Aemiias was boilt, since Livy (xxxv. 21)that fmo were carried away by the streamf 193; and the** could hardly have been all, ■ . ijr»|.i<;b?eliv have said so. 1'he Insula*i was, m very early times, connected withawe by two bridge*, and hence obtained the W Umut Di-oa Pcurm (Plut. Popl. 8;* Sat. ii. 12.) That nearest the city (now <A>attn> Capi) was the Puns Kabricius, sofnaa its founder, or probably its restorer, L IL L Fabric! us, as appears from the inscription on it,and from Dion Cassias (xxxvii. 45). It was thefavourite resort of suicides: — u jussit sapient em pascere barbam Atque a Fabricio nun tristetn ponte reverti." (Hor. S. ii. 3. 36.) The bridge on the farther side of the island (nowPonte S. Bartofommeo) is commonly called PonsCi.m h>, and appears to have borne that name in 3 i