OCR Output 56 [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now when after supper they had composedthemselves to sleep, J oseph commanded hissteward both to give them their measures ofcorn, and to hide its price again in their sacks;and withal they should put into Benjamin'ssack the golden cup, out of which he himselfused to drink. Which things he did in orderto make trial of his brethren, whether theywould stand by Benjamin when he should beaccused of having stolen the cup, and shouldappear to be in danger; or whether theywould leave him, and, depending on their owninnocency, go to their father without him.When the servant had done as he was bidden,the sons of Jacob, knowing nothing of this,went their way, and took Simeon with them,and had a double cause of joy; both becausethey had received him again, and becausethey took back Benjamin to their father, asthey had promised. But presently a troop ofhorsemen encompassed them, and broughtwith them Joseph's servant, who had put thecup into Benjamin's sack. Upon this unex­pected attack, they were much disturbed,and asked the reason why they came thusupon men, who a little before, had been bytheir lord thought worthy of an honourableand hospitable reception? They replied, bycalling them wicked wretches, who had for­got that very hospitable and kind treatmentwhich Joseph had given them, and did notscruple to be injurious to him; and to carryoff that cup out of which he had, in so friendlya manner, drank to them; regarding theirfriendship with Joseph no more than thedanger they should be in, if they were taken,in comparison of the unjust gain. Hereuponhe threatened, that they should be punished,for though they had escaped the knowledgeof him, who was but a servant, yet had theynot escaped the knowledge of God, nor hadgone off with what they had stolen; and afterall, asked, why they were pursued, as if theyknew nothing of the matter; and he told them,that they should immediately know it by theirpunishment. This and more of the samenature did the servant say, in way of reproach;but they being wholly ignorant of any thinghere that concerned them, laughed at whathe said, and wondered at the abusive lan-selves, in all public feasts and banquets, was no more thana double mess." Patrick's Commentary and BibliothecaBibl. B. guage which he gave them, when he was sohardy as to accuse those who did not beforeso much as retain the price of their corn,which was found in their sacks, but brought itagain, though nobody else knew of any suchthing; so far were they from offering anyinjury to Joseph voluntarily. But still, sup­posing that a search would be a more surejustification of themselves than their own de­nial of the fact, they bid him search them;and said, if any of them had been guilty oftheft, he might punish them all; for being noway conscious of any crime, they spake withassurance, and, as they thought, without anydanger to themselves. The servants desiredthere might be a search made; but they said,the punishment should extend to him alonewho should be guilty of the theft. So theymade the search; and having searched allthe rest, they' came at last to Benjamin, asknowing it was Benjamin's sack in which theyhad hidden the cup; they having searchedthe rest only for a shew of accuracy; so therest were out of fear for themselves, and werenow only concerned about Benjamin; butstill were well assured that he would be alsofound innocent; and they reproached thosethat came after them for their hindering them,while they might have proceeded a good wayon their journey. But as soon as the cup wasfound in Benjamin's sack, all was changed tomourning and lamentation. They rent theirgarments, and wept for the punishment whichtheir brother was to undergo for his theft; andfor the delusion they had put on their father,when they promised they would return Ben­jamin safe to him. What added to theirmisery was, that this melancholy accidentcame unfortunately at a time when theythought they had been gotten off clear. Butthey confessed that this misfortune of theirbrother, as well as the grief of their fatherfor him, was owing to themselves; since theyhad forced their father to send him with them,when he was averse from it. The horsemen therefore took Benjamin andbrought him to Joseph, his brethren also fol­lowing him, who, when he saw him in custody,and them in the habit of mourning, said,*" How came you, vile wretches as you are, * This oration seems too long, and too unugual a digres­sion to have have been composed by Joseph on this occa­sion. It seems to me a speech or declaration composed