OCR Output 780 TtOMA. ROMA. compass, but these are trifles. The correct bearingsare given in Carina's large plan and in Becker'smap, and arc wholly at variance with those laiddown by Mommsen. Again, it is not to be imaginedthat Opimitu would have built up his temple ofConcord immediately in front of the ancient curia,thus screening it entirely from the view of the forumand comitiuin; a state in which it must have re­mained for nearly half a century, according tothe hypothesis of Mommsen. Another decisiverefutation of Momra^en's view is that the BasilicaPortia, as we shall sec further on. was situated onthe forum close by the curia, whilst according toMommsen the two buildings were separated by aconsiderable interval. We hold it, therefore, to bequite imjKKsible that the curia could have stoodwhere Mommsen places it; but at the same time weconfess our inability to give a satisfactory expla­nation of the passage in I,ivy. A word, or severalwords, seem to have dropped out, as is the case fre­quently in the very same sentence, where the gapsare marked in the editions with asterisks. Such acorrupt sentence, therefore, does not suffice as au­thority for so important a change, in the teeth of allevidence to the contrary. We shall only further observe that the precedingpassages of Varro and Pliny thus apptar, whenrightly interpreted, mutually to support and ex­plain one another, and show the Graecostasis to havestood to the W. of the curia, first from its prox-imitv to the senaculum and temple of Concord, andsecondly, from the mid-day line falling between itand the rostra. That the curia was considerablyraised apj«ars from the circumstance that Turquinthe Proad nearly ra-ised the death of Servius Tulliusby hurling him down the steps in front of it, whichled to the comitiuin. (L)ionys. iv. 38; Liv. i. 48.)It was an inaugurated temple in order that thesenate might huld their meetings in it, but not asacred one. (Liv. i. 30; Varr./. c.) In the reignof Tullus the forum was adorned with the tro­phy called. Pila IIokatiana, consisting of thespoils won from the Curiatii; but where it stoodcannot be determined. (Dionys. iii. '22; Liv. i. 26.) The Sknaculum referred to in the preceding ac­count apjiears to have been a raised and open area,adjoining the Graecostasis and curia, on which thesenators were accustomed to assemble before theyentered the curia in order to deliberate. ThusVarro: "Senaculum vocatum ubi senatus aut ubiseniores consisterent: dictum ut Gerusia apudGraecos" (v. § 156, Mull.). Valerius Maximusgives a still more explicit account: "Senatus assi-duam stationem eo loci peragebat qui hodiequeSenaculum appellator: nec exspectahat ut edictocoutraheretur, sed hide citatus protinus in Curiamvc iiebat " (ii. 2. ij 6). Festufl mentions that therewere three Senacula in all; namely, besides the onealluded to, another near the Porta Capena, ami athird by the temple of Bellona, in the Campus Mar-tius. But as his account is in some ropects con­tradictory of the two preceding authorities, we shallhere inseit it: ** Senacula tria fuisse Komae, inqui bus senatus haheii solitus sit, memoriae prodiditNicostratus in libro qui inscribitur de senatu ha-bendo: unum, ubi nunc est aedis Concordiae interCapitolium et Forum; in quo solebant magi*tratusI>. T. cum Senioribus deliberare; alterum ad por-tam Capenam; terlium, citra aedem Bollonae, inquo exterarum nation tun legatis, quos in nrbein ad-mittere nolebant, senatus dabatur" (p. 347, Mull.). Here the senaculam is represented, twt is a pintin which the senate assembled prerkmsly to deawvration, but as one in which it actually delHeratst,It is impossible, however, that this couid bait baaso. For in that case what would have bees tl*a*of the curia? in which the senate is mnlaia%representeil as assembling, except in cam efthey held their sittings in some other temple,sides we have no accounts of the aenaeiilaalan inaugurated place, without which it «ceJibeen unlawful for the senate to deliberate iNicostratus therefore, who, from bis Dame, seahave been a Greek, probably confounded ibe icula with the curia, and other temples in wha1senate assembled; and at all events his ancannot be set against the more probable onerf'and Valerius Maximus. There is, bower*part in the account of Festos, which MM 1the matter in a different point of view. The 1u in quo swlebant magistratus D.T. nan sesjdeliberare" seem to point to the senacuJoa ia place where the senators deliberated amoarselves, but where they conferred with iht 1trates; such magistrates we may su^p>»r Vnot entitled to enter the curia. Such »etribunes of the people, who, during the deibeof the senate, took their seats before the elsasof the curia; yet as they had to examine tathe decrees of the Fathers l»efore they beamwe may easily imagine that it wag somefiacessary for the tribunes and senators sotogether, and these conferences may *wplace at the senaculum (" Tribunis plefcis inttriam non licebat: ante valvas autem pooSselliis, decreta patrum attentissima cannabant; ut, si qua ex eis i i .t--ratalsine rent. Itaque veteribus senatus cornellitera subscribi solebat: eaqae nota saeaafcita tribunos qttoque censuisse/* VaL Max.a.In this manner the senacula would bare ■two purjKiscs; as places in which the secalpreviously to assembling in the curia, and ■of neutral ground for conferences with the;magistrates. With regard to the precise situation of tJculum belonging to the Curia Hoatiiia. we CMassume, with Mommsen, that it occupiedwhich the temple of Concord was afterwards Ibuilt; nor do the words of Varro and F<"Senaculum ubi aedis Concordiae "—seenquire so very rigorous an mterprefatMB.sufficient if it adjoined the temple; though at Iimprobable that the latter may hareupon some part of its area. After the 1erected there still appears to hare been a Ispace in front of it, part of the ancient Ibut which now seems to have obtained the l"Area Concordiae." Ita identity with tlculum apjiears from its adjoining the Vulcanthe latter: *' In area Vulcani et Caward)guinem pluit." (Liv. zl. 19.) ■ In arteper biduum, in area Concordiae totidero dadguinem pluit." (Jul. Obseq. 59.) The aConcord became a very usual place for asof the senate, as appears front manyin ancient authors. (Cic. PkiL ia. J;Ah r. 6, &c.) From the area a flightled up to the vestibule of the temple:Komani) qui frequentissimt in grsklihca Iat eternal. (Cic. PhiL viii. 8.) Acoordiaf Icixibius the temple of Saturn aiso had a i