OCR Output MINARIACUM. 350 MINIUS. fladramovL Their country must have compre­hended the eastern half of the territory of Yofa, andthe western half of the modern HadramauL 80that Shibam and ferSm, and the tomb of IIml, andthe wells of Bariot (Ptolemy's source of the Styx),which now form part of JIddramaut, pertained tothe Minaei. (Kitter, Erdbtmde von Arabien,I pp. 278—284.) [G. W.] MINARIACUM, in Belgica, is placed on a roadfrom Castellum (Cassel) to Turnacum (Tournai);and a road also ran from Caslellum through Mina-riacom to Nemetacum (Arras). The distance isxi. (leagues) from Cassel, a well-known position, toMinariacum. IVAnville contends that the geogra­phers are mistaken in placing Minariacum at Mer-gkm, or, as the French call it, Merville, on the riverLw, instead of placing it at Esterre, also on theLjt. The distances as usual cause a difficulty, andthere is nothing else that decides the question. Anold Roman road leads from Cassel to Esterre^ andRoman coins have been fonnd at Estcrre. [G. L.] UNAS SABBATTHA (Metros SaGa-rfci, Zosim.iii. 23), a small fortified work in Babylonia, whichZcaiinus describes as, in his day, occupying the siteof the celebrated Parthian capital Ctesiphon. Abtil-feda (p. 253) speaks of a place in the neighbourhoodcalled Sabatk. [V.] MISA'TlCfM. in Belgica, is placed by the An-tonine Itin. and the Table on a road from Bagacum(Barai) to Durocortorum (Reims). It is placedin the Itin. between Catusiacum (Chaours) andAaxenna or Axuenna. [Axuknna.] Catusineumis omitted in the Table, and Mir.atjcum appears underthe firm Ninittaci, or Nintecasi, as D'Anville writesit Here, as in some other cases, the name in theTable appears to be more exact, for Ninittaci isA'irj U Comte, which stands on an old Romanroad that leads from Chaours to Reims. [G. L.] MrNCIUS (Miyntor: M'mcio), a considerableriver of Gallia Cisalpina, and one of the most im-pwtant of the northern tributaries of the Padus.(PUn. id. 16. s. 20, 19. s. 23; Strab. iv. p. 209.)It has its sources in the Rhaetian Alps, at the foottf the Monte Tonaley from which it flows to theUkf Benacus, or Logo di Garda, which is formedby the accumulation of its waters; from thence itisvies again at Peschiera (the ancient Ardelica),tfci has from thence a course of about 40 miles, tillh tills into the Po near Gorernolo, about 10 miles«boT? Hostilia. In the upper part of its course it« * mere mountain torrent; but after it leaves thelake Benacus it is a deep and clear stream, whichholds a hiow and winding course through the low•ai marshy plains of this part of Cisalpine Gaul.It is characteristically described by Virgil, whod*elt on its banks. (Virg. Eel. vii. 13, Georg.fit 15. Aen. x. 206.) In the immediate neigh­borhood of Mantua the waters of the Minciusftarnate, so as to form shallow hikes of considerableI'fTit, which surround that city on three sides, thefcarlh being also protected by artificial inundations. A battle was fought on the banks of the Mincius■ R.C. 197, between the consul Cornelius and the<*rUwd fares of the Insnhres and Cenomani, in*hko the latter were entirely defeated, and theirfcader, the Carthaginian llamilcar, taken prisoner.(I>. xxxii. 30.) At a murli later period it was« the hanks of the Mincius, near its confluence*Hh the Padus, at a place called by JornandesArpwratnB, Mamboleius, that the celebrated intcr-▼*» took place between Poj« Leo I. and Attila, which led the king of the Iluns to withdraw hisforces from Italy. (Jornand. Get. 42; P. DiscHist. Miscell. xv. p. 549.) [E. H. B.] MIKERVAK PIIOMONTO'RIUM (to 'AftfrcubraxpwTii/»or, Strab.: Pvnta della Campanella), a pro­montory on the coast of Campania, opposite to theisland of Capreae, forming the southern boundary ofthe celebrated Crater or Bag of Naples. It is abold and rocky headland, constituting the extremityof a mountain ridge, which branches off from themain mass of the Apennines near Nuceria, anil formsa great mountain promontory, about 25 miles inlength, which separates the Bag of Naples from thatof Pa est urn or Salerno. The actual headland de­rived its name from a temple of Minerva, situated onits summit, which was said to have been founded byUlysses (Strab. v. p. 247): it was separated by achannel of only 3 miles in width from the island ofCapreae (Capri). On the S. side of the promontory,but about 5 miles from the extreme headland, aresome small rocky islets now called Li GalU, verybold and picturesque in appearance, which were se­lected by tradition as the abode of the Sirens, andhence named the Sirknusae Insllae (2*tpr)vuva-oat yrtaot, Ptol. iii. 1. §79; Strab. v. p 247; Pseud.Arist. Slirab. 110). From the proximity of these,according to Strabo, the headland itself was some­times called the Promontory of the Sirens (Zftpyvova--awv cutpon^ptoy), but all other writers give it themore usual appellation of Promontory of Minerva,though Pliny adds that it had once been the abodeof the Sirens; and there was an ancient temple onthe side towards Surrentum in honour of thnse my­thical beings, which had at one time been an objectof great veneration to the surrounding population.(Strab. v. pp. 242, 247; Plin. iii. 5. a. 9; Pseud.Arist /. c; Ovid. Met. xv. 709; Mel. ii. 4. § 9;Liv. xlii. 20.) Tacitus in one passage calls theheadland Surrentinum Promontorium, from its prox­imity to the town of Surrentum, from which it wasonly 5 miles distant; and Statius also speaks of thetemple of Minerva as situated u in vertice Surrcn-tino." (Tac Ann. iv. 67; Stat. Silv. v. 3. 165.) The Promontory of Minerva is a point of consider­able importance in the coast-line of Italy: hence wefind it selected in B.C. 181 as the point of demarca­tion for the two squadrons which were appointed toclear the sea of pirates; the one protecting the coastsfrom thence to Massilia, the other tho>e on the S. asfar as the entrance of the Adriatic. (Liv. xl. 18.)In B.C. 36 a part of the fleet of Augustus, underAppius Claudius, on its voyage from Misenuin toSicily, encountered a tempest in passing this caj«,from which it suffered heavy loss. (Appian, B. C.v. 98.) It is mentioned also by Lucilius as a pointof importance in his vovage along the coast of Italv.(Lucil. Sat. iii. Fr. 10.) [E. H. B.]' MI'NIO (Mignone), a small river of Etruria,flowing into the Tyrrhenian sea, between Centuin-cellae (Civita Vecchia) and Graviscae, and about3 miles S. of the mouth of the Maria, It is a triflingstream, though noticed by Virgil, as well as by Ru-tilius in his voyage along this coast; but Mela andthe Geographer of Ravenna are the only geofjraphiralwriters who deem it worthy of mention. (Virg. Aen.x. 183; Scrv. ad loc.; Rutil. Itin. i. 279; Mel. ii.4. § 9; Geogr. Rav. iv. 32.) [E. H. 11.] MI'NIUS (Mfrioj: Minho), a river of Spain,rising in the north of Gallaecia, in the Cantahrianmountains, and falling into the Ocean. (Strab.iii. p. 153.) Strabo erroneously says that it is the A A 4