OCR Output ,48 THE DECLINE AND FALL the temples dedicated to the goddess of Peace and to the genius ofRome 71. These monuments of architecture, the property of theRoman people, were adorned with the most beautiful productionsof Grecian painting and sculpture; and in the temple of Peace, avery curious library was open to the curiosity of the learned. Ata small distance from thence was situated the Forum of Trajan. It wassurrounded with a lofty portico, and in the centre arose a columnof marble, whose height, of one hundred and ten feet, denoted theelevation of the hill that had been cut away. This column, whichstill subsists in its ancient beauty, exhibited an exact representationof the Dacian victories of its founder. The veteran soldier con­templated the story of his own c-ampaigns, and by an easy illusionof national vanity, the peaceful citizen associated himself to thehonours of the triumph. All the other quarters of the capital, andall the provinces of the empire, were embellished by the same liberalspirit of public magnificence, and were silled with amphitheatres,theatres, temples, porticos, triumphal arches, baths, and aqueducts,all variously conducive to the health, the devotion, and the pleasuresof the meanest citizen. The last mentioned of those edificesdeserve our peculiar attention. The boldness of the enterprise,the solidity of the execution, and the uses to which they weresubservient, rank the aqueducts among the noblest monuments ofRoman genius and power. The aqueducts of the capital claim ajust pre-eminence; but the curious traveller, who, without the lightof history, should examine those of Spoleto, of Metz, or of Segovia,would very naturally conclude, that those provincial towns hadformerly been the residence of some potent monarch. The solitudesof Asia and Africa were once covered with flouristiing cities, whosepopulousness, and even whose existence was dei.'Ved from such ar­tificial supplies of a perennial stream of frefli waterNumber and We have computed the inhabitants, and contemplated the public greatness of _wort8 Qf tne Roman empire. The observation of the number andthe cries ot * the empire. greatness