OCR Output an. 709.] 359 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. give him some sign, that he might believewhat he had said, and be sensible that hecame from God. For things that are beyondexpectation, and greater than our hopes, aremade credible by actions of the like nature.And when Isaiah had asked him, what signhe wished to be exhibited? He desired thathe would make the shadow of the sun whichhad already gone down ten steps in hishouse,* to return again to the same place,and to make it as it was before. And whenthe prophet prayed to God to exhibit thissign to the king, he saw what he desired tosee, and was freed from his distemper, andwent up to the temple, where he worshippedGod, and made vows to him. At this time the dominion of the Assyrianswasf overthrown by the Medes. But theking of Babylon, whose name was Baladan,sent ambassadors to Hezekiah with presents;and desired he would be his ally, and his friend.J So he received the ambassadorsgladly, and made them a feast, and shewedthem his treasures, and his armoury, and theother wealth he was possessed of in preciousstones, and in gold, and gave them presentsto be carried to Baladan, and sent themback to him. || Upon which the prophetIsaiah came to him, and inquired whencethose ambassadors came? to which he re­plied, that they came from Babylon, from theking; and that he had shewn them all hehad; that by the sight of his riches andforces they might thereby guess at the plentyhe was in, and be able to inform the king ofit. But the prophet rejoined, and said,"Know thou, that, after a little while, theseriches of thine shall be carried away toBabylon: and thy posterity shall be madeeunuchs there, and be servants to the kingof Babylon: for God hath foretold suchthings shall come to pass." Upon these * As to this regress of the shadow, either upon a sun­dial, or the steps of the royal palace built by Ahaz, whe­ther it were physically done, by the miraculous revolu­tion of the earth, in its diurnal motion, backward, fromcast to west, for a while; and its return again to itsold natural revolution from west to east; or whether itwere apparent only, and performed by an aerial phos­phorus: (of which sort, though under other shapes, wehave had a great many of late years,) which imitated thesun's motion backward, while a cloud hid the real sun,cannot now be determined. Philosophers and astrono­mers will naturally incline to the latter hypothesis. How-ever, it must be noted, that Josephus seems to have un­derstood it otherwise than we generally do: that theshadow was accelerated as much at first forward, as itwas made to go backward afterward, and so the day wasneither longer nor shorter than usual; which, it must beconfessed, agrees best of all to astronomy, whose eclipseselder than that time were observed at the same times ofthe day as if this miracle had never happened. After all,this wonderful signal was not, it seems, peculiar to Judea;but either seen, or at least heard of at Babylon also; asappears by 2 Chron. xxxii. 31, where we learn, that theBabylonian ambassadors were sent to Hezekiah, amongother things to inquire of the wonder that was done in theland. It is also taken notice of by the father of Sirach,Ecclus. xlviii. 23. See another ancient testimony alsobefore, in the note under Joshua, Antiq. V. 1. t This expression of Josephus's, that the Medcs, uponthis destruction of the Assyrian army, overthrew the As­syrian empire, seems to be too strong. For although theyimmediately cast off the Assyrian yoke, and set up De-joces, a king of their own; yet was it some time beforethe Medes and Babylonians overthrew Nineveh; andsome generations ere the Medes and Persians, under Cy-axares and Cyras, overthrew the Assyrian or Babylonianempire, and took Babylon. t The conquests which the Assyrians were everywhere making, could not fail of giving umbrage to the neighbouring powers to confederate against them; andtherefore, we may well suppose, that, besides the businessof congratulating Hezekiah's recovery, the purpose of thisembassy was to enter into an alliance with him againstSennacherib, whose growing power the Babylonians hadreason to fear, as well as the Jews ; and, (as the author ofthe Chronicles expresses it,) to inquire into the wonderthat was done in the land, 2 Chron. xxxii. 31. i. e. to in­quire into the miracle of the sun's retrogradation, whichcould not fail of being a matter of great curiosity to theChaldeans, who, above all other nations, were at that timegiven to the study of Astronomy. Calmet's Commentary.and Prideaux's Connection, Anno 713. B. , || The things which Hezekiah shewed to the Babylo­nian ambassadors, were the riches of his house, his trea­sures, his armoury, and all his stores and strength for war;and the reason for his doing this, was, doubtless, to makethe Babylonians put the greater value upon his friend­ship: but herein he offended God, that he not only laida bait before these foreigners to encourage them to invadehis country, but seemed to place more confidence in thisnew alliance with them, than in the power of the Al­mighty, whose favour and protection he had so long ex­perienced. The author of the Chronicles tells us, that, inthe business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon,who sent unto him to inquire of the wonder that was donein the land, God left him to try him, that he might knowall that was in his heart, 2 Chron. xxxii. 31. And fromhence some have inferred, that Hezekiah's great offencelay, not so much in the ostentation of his military storesand treasures, as in his not giving sufficient glory to Godfor so signal a miracle, and his recovery ensuant there­upon, and in his not representing this matter to theseidolatrous ambassadors, in such powerful and convincingterms as might have drawn them over to the knowledgeof the true God, which was the proper improvement he.should have made this divine vouchsafement to him. LsClerks Commentary. B.