OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 237 time, and saw that no motion was made by the enemy,they attacked the transports. The affair bore no re­semblance to a naval engagement; it was more like anattack made by ships against walls. The transportsbad some advantage in their height; for the Cartha­ginians, being obliged to throw their weapons upward,discharged most of them to no purpose against thehigher places; whereas those from the transports fellwith greater force, at the same time gaining additionalpower from their own weight. The scouts and lighterRoman vessels, which pushed out through the open­ings under the bridges of communication between theirships, were at first run down by the weight and bulkof the Carthaginian ships of war; and afterwards theybecame an obstruction to those who defended the line,because, as they were mixed among the enemy's ships,they often obliged them to stop the discharge of theirweapons, lest, missing their aim, they should hit theirfriends. At length the Carthaginians threw among theRomans beams furnished at the ends with iron hooks,which the soldiers call harpoons. They could neithercut the beams, nor the chains by which they wereraised in order to be thrown, so that as soon as any ofthe ships of war, hauling back, dragged a transportentangled by the hook, the fastenings of these vesselsbroke, and in some places several were dragged awaytogether. By this means, chiefly, were all the bridgestorn asunder; and scarcely had the defenders time tomake their escape into the second row of ships. Aboutsix were towed away to Carthage, where the joy of thepeople was greater than the occasion merited. Butthey were the more sensibly affected because this gleamof good fortune, however small, had unexpectedlyshone on them, in the midst of a continued course oflosses and lamentations. It appeared that the Romanfleet would hardly have escaped destruction had nottheir own commanders been dilatory, so that Scipiohad time to bring in relief. '11. Laelius and Masinissa having, about the fifteenthday, arrived in Numidia, Massylia, Masinissa's here-