OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. dies 97. The bloody sacrifices of Diana, the arrival of Orestes andPylades, and the triumph of virtue and religion over savage fierce­ness, serve to represent an historical truth, that the Tauri, theoriginal inhabitants of the peninsula, were, in some degree, reclaimedfrom their brutal manners, by a gradual intercourse with the Gre­cian colonies, which settled along the maritime coast. The littlekingdom of Bosphorus, whose capital was situated on the Straits,through which the Mæotis communicates itself to the Euxine, wascomposed of degenerate Greeks, and half-civilized barbarians. Itsubsisted, as an independent state, from the time of the Peloponnesianwar 9\ was at last swallowed up by the ambition of the Mi-thridates ", and, with the rest of his dominions, funk under theweight of the Roman arms. From the reign of Augustus thekings of Bosphorus were the humble, but not useless, allies of theempire. By presents, by arms, and by a flight fortification drawnacross the Isthmus, they effectually guarded against the rovingplunderers of Sarmatia, the access of a country, which, from itspeculiar situation and convenient harbours, commanded the Euxinesea and Asia Minor ,c". As long as the scepter was possessed by alineal succession of kings, they acquitted themselves of their impor­tant charge with vigilance and success. Domestic factions, and thefears, or private interest, of obscure usurpers, who seized on thevacant throne, admitted the Goths into the heart of Bosphorus.With the acquisition of a superfluous waste of fertile foil, the con­querors obtained the command of a naval force, sufficient to trans­port their armies to the coast of Asia ,0\ The ships used in the Who acquirenavigation of the Euxine were of a very singular construction.They were slight flat-bottomed barks framed of timber only, with­out the least mixture of iron, and occasionally covered with ashelving roof, on the appearance of a tempest ,0'. In these floatinghouses, the Goths carelessly trusted themselves to the mercy of anunknown sea, under the conduct of sailors pressed into the service,Vol, F. Mm and