OCR Output 298 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the quantity of the wine, or the quality of the mush-xx' rooms, which he had swallowed in the evening.—According to others, he was suffocated in his sleepby the vapour of charcoal; which extracted from thewalls of the apartment the unwholesome moisture ofthe fresh plaster *. But the want of a regular in­quiry into the death of a prince, whose reign andperson were soon forgotten, appears to have been theonly circumstance which countenanced the maliciouswhispers of poison and domestic guilt. The body ofJovian was sent to Constantinople, to be interred withhis predecessors; and the sad procession was met onthe road by his wife Charito, the daughter of countLucillian; who still wept the recent death of herfather, and was hastening to dry her tears in the em­braces of an Imperial husband. Her disappointmentand grief were embittered by the anxiety of maternaltenderness. Six weeks before the death of Jovian,his infant son had been placed in the curule chair,adorned with the title of Nobilissimus, and the vainensigns of the consulship. Unconscious of his fortune,the royal youth, who, from his grandfather, assumedthe name of Varronian, was reminded only by thejealousy of the government, that he was the son of anemperor. Sixteen years afterwards he was still alive,but he had already been deprived of an eye; and hisafflicted mother expected, every hour, that the inno­cent victim would be torn from her arms, to appeasewith his blood the suspicions of the reigning prince.Vacancy After the death of Jovian, the throne of the Ro-throne, man world remained ten days without a master.—f& 17— Ministers and generals still continued to meet in council; to exercise their respective functions; to * See Ammianus (xxv. 10.), Eutropius (x. 18.), who might likewise bepresent; Jerom (torn. i. p. 20. ad Heliodorum), Orosius (vii. 31.), Sozomen(1. vi. c. 6.), Zosimus (1. iii. p. 197, 198.), and Zonaras (torn. ii. 1. xiii. p.28, 29.). We cannot expect a perfect agreement, and we shall not discuss minutedifferences.