OCR Output 272 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.. "young woman's presence, with a riew to clear up"some points; and if he found that he had realty been"imposed on, he might then depart better satisfied in"his own mind." He was allowed that liberty, andaccordingly led his daughter and her nurse aside to thebooths, near the temple of Cloacina, now-called the newbooths, and their snatching a butcher's knife. "By this"the only means in my power, my dear child," said he"I preserve thy honour and liberty;" and then plung­ed it into her heart; turning instantly full upon Appius,crying out, " By this innocent blood, Appius, L devote"thy head to the infernal gods." A clamour being raised on the commission of this a-trocious deed, the decemvir was dreadfully alarmed, andimmediately ordered Virginius to be seized ; but he open­ed a passage to himself with the knife, wherever he went;till by favour of the multitude, he reached the gates.Icilius and Numitorius, lifted up her breathless body, and -exposed it to the people, deploring the guilt of Appius,the fatal beauty of Virginia, and the cruel necessity towhich her father •vas reduced, of taking away her lifewith his own hand. The matrons following the corpse,cried out, "Is it for th-is purpose we bring children into"the world? Is this the reward of chastity >''—Addinga thousand other moving complaints, which grief, par­ticularly lively and tender in their sex, generally inspiresthem with on such occasions. The men, hut especiallyIcilius, complained only, that the people had been de­prived of their tribunes, and the right of appeal, andthat the grossest villanies were committed in the face of.the sun. GHAP. XLIX. Appiua' authority sinking. HE multitude now were in the highest ferment, bothon account of the enormity of the crime, and the hopeof recovering their liberty. Sometimes Appius orderedIcilius to be cited, and sometimes to be carried to jailfor his obstinacy. At last, finding the officers could notget through the crowd, he came himself, attended by a -