OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW&. bility of temper, which had been improved by much exerciseand pains-taking: for as he was the grandson* of the brotherof Tiberius, whose successor he was, this was a strong induce­ment to his acquiring of learning, because Tiberius aspired afterthe highest pitch of that sort of reputation ; and Cains aspiredafter the like glory for eloquence, being induced thereto by theletters of his kinsman and his emperor. He was also among thefirst rank of his own citizens. But the advantages he receivedfrom his learning did not countervail the mischief he broughtupon himself in the exercise of his authority; so difficult it isfor those to obtain the virtue that is necessary for a wise man,who have the absolute power to do what they please withoutcontroul. At the first he got himself such friends as were inall respects the most worthy, and was greatly beloved by them,while he imitated their zealous application to the learning andto the glorious actions of the best men ; but when he becameinsolent towards them, they laid aside the kindness they had forhim, and began to hate him ; from which hatred came that plotwhich they raised against him, and wherein he perished. CHAP. III. How Claudius was seized upon, and brought out of his house, andbrought to the camp, and how the Senate sent an embassageto him. § 1. "VTOW Claudius, as I said above, went out of that way•*• ' along which Caius was gone ; and, as the family wasin a mighty disorder upon the sad accident of the murder ofCaius, he was in great distress how to save himself, and wasfound to have hidden himself in a certain narrow place f, thoughhe had no other occasion for suspicion of any dangers, besides thedignity of his birth ; for, while he was a private man, he beha­ved himself with moderation, and was contented with his presentfortune, applying himself to learning, and especially to that ofthe Greeks, and keeping himself entirely clear from every thingthat might bring on any disturbance. But as at this time themultitude were under a consternation, and the whole palace wasfull of the soldiers madness, and the very emperor's guards seem­ed under the like fear and disorder with private persons, the bandcalled pretonan, which was the purest part of the army, was inconsultation what was to be done at this juncture. Now all those that * This Caius was the son of that excellent person Germanicus, who was theson of Drusus, the brother ot Tiberius the emperor. ,f The first place Claudius came to was inhabited, and called llcr/neum, asSpanheim here inform* ui from Suetonius, in Claud, ch. x.