OCR Output iw. 968.] 303 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Ethiopians* learned the rite of circumcisionfrom the Egyptians, with this addition; thatthe Phoenicians and Syrians that live inPalestine confess that they learned it of theEgyptians." Yet is it evident that no otherof the Syrians that live in Palestine besidesus alone are circumcised. But as to suchmatters let every one speak what is agree­able to his own opinion. When Shishak was gone away, king Re-hoboam made bucklers and shields of brass,tinstead of those of gold;J and delivered thesame number of them to the keepers of theking's palace. So instead of famous warlikeexpeditions, and that glory which resultsfrom those public actions, he reigned ingreat quietness, though not without fear; asbeing always an enemy to Jeroboam. Andhe died when he had lived fifty-seven years,and reigned seventeen.|| He was in his dis­position a proud, and a foolish man: and lostpart of his dominions by not hearkening tohis father's friends. He was buried at Jeru- salem, in the sepulchres of the kings. Andhis son Abijah§ succeeded him in the king­dom; and this in the eighteenth year of Je­roboam's reign over the ten tribes. It mustbe now our business to relate the affairs ofJeroboam, and how he ended his life. Forhe ceased not, nor rested to be injurious toGod; but every day raised up altars uponhigh mountains, and went on making priestsout of the multitude. CHAP. XI. OF THE DEATH OF JEROBOAM'S SON; JEROBOAM'S DEFEATBY ABIJAH; HIS SUBSEQUENT DEATH AND DESTRUCTIONOF HIS HOUSE BY BAASHA. GOD was in no long time ready to returnJeroboam's wicked actions, and thepunishment they deserved, upon his head,and upon the heads of all his house. Andwhereas a son of the king's lay sick at thattime, who was called Abijah;** he enjoinedhis wife to lay aside her robes, and to take * Herodotus, as here quoted by Josephus, and as thispassage still stands in his present copies, Book II. chap.104, affirms, that "the Phoenicians and Syrians in Pales­tine, (which last are generally supposed to denote theJews,) owned their receiving circumcision from the Egyp­tians." Whereas it is abundantly evident, that the Jewsreceived their circumcision from the patriarch Abraham,Gen. xvii. 9—14. Josh. vii. 22, 23. as I conclude theEgyptian priests themselves did. It is not thereforerery unlikely that Herodotus, because the Jews hadlived long in Egypt, and came out of it circumcised, didthereupon think they had learned that circumcision inEgypt, and had it not before. Manetho, the famousEgyptian chronologer and historian, who knew the his­tory of his own country much better than Herodotus,complains frequently of his mistakes about their affairs;as does Josephus more than once in this chapter. Norindeed does Herodotus seem at all acquainted with theaffairs of the Jews. For as he never names them; solittle or nothing of what he says about them, their country,or maritime cities, two of which he alone mentions, Ca-dytis and Jenysis, proves true. Nor indeed do thereappear to have ever been any such cities on their coast.See Essay on the Old Testament, Appendix, page 180.Reland's Palestine, tom. II. lib. iii. page 668, 669, 670,and the note on XI. 2. t This shews, to what low condition the kingdom ofJudnh was reduced. These shields were a matter of stateand grandeur; and therefore it concerned them, if theywere able, to have them of the same value that they werebefore. And, as they were carried before the king to thehouse of the Lord, it seemed likewise to be a matter ofrelisjion, that their value should not be diminished. Now,in making these three hundred shields we are told, thatthree pounds of gold went to one shield, I Kings x. 17.Thus at four pounds per ounce, or forty-eight pounds sterling to the pound, amounts to no more than 432,0O0Zand therefore it was a miserable case, that they werereduced from so much wealth to so much poverty, thatneither reason of state, nor religion, could raise so small asum on so great an occasion Bedford's Scripture Chro­nology, lib. vi. c. 2. B. | 1 Kings xiv. 27. II From an. 976 to 959 B. C § An. 959. ** Jeroboam might be for having his wife go to consultthe prophet at Shiloh, because this was a secret not to beentrusted with any body else ; a secret which if it had beendivulged, might have endangered his whole government:because, if once his subjects came to understand, that hehimself had no confidence in the calves which he had setup, but in any matter of importance had recourse to thetrue worshippers of God, it is not to be imagined, what aninducement this would have been for them to forsakethese senseless idols, and to return to the worship of theGod of Israel, whom they imprudently had forsaken.The queen was then the only person he could have con­fidence in. As a mother, he knew, that she would hediligent in her inquiry: and as a wife, faithful in her re­port; but there were sundry reasons why ne might de­sire her to disguise herself. For though Shiloh lay withinthe confines of Ephraim, yet there is sufficient ground tothink, that it was subject to the house of David, and be­longed to the kingdom of Judah. It was certainly nearerJerusalem than Shechem, which Rehoboam had latelyfortified, and made his place of residence: and thereforeJeroboam thought it not safe to venture his queen, in aplace that was under his rival's government, without herputtins; on some disguise. He knew too, tb:tt the prophetAhijah was greatly offended at him, for the gross idolatryhe had introduced: and therefore he thought (as justlyhe might) that, if the prophet perceived it to be his wife,