OCR Output CHAP. LH. 476 which they had inflicted on the empire, by the defeatand slaughter of twenty-two thousand Asiatics. A reportwas dexterously scattered, that the Franks, the unknownnations of the Latin world, were arming by sea and land,in the defence of the Christian cause, and their formi­dable aid was expected with far different sensations inFailure the camp and city. At length, after a siege oftof the thirteen months,0 the hopeless Moslemah re- trea ceived from the caliph the welcome permissionof retreat. The march of the Arabian cavalry over theHellespont, and through the provinces of Asia, was exe­cuted without delay or molestation; but an army of theirbrethren had been cut in pieces on the side of Bithynia,and the remains of the fleet were so repeatedly damagedby tempest and fire, that only five galleys entered theport of Alexandria to relate the tale of their various andalmost incredible disasters.11 invention In the two sieges, the deliverance of Constan-thedGreekf tinople may be chiefly ascribed to the novelty, the*"• terrors, and the real efficacy, of the Greek fire?The important secret of compounding and directing thisartificial flame was imparted by Callinicus, a native ofHeliopolis in Syria, who deserted from the service of thecaliph to that of the emperor/ The skill of a chemistand engineer was equivalent to the succour of fleets and 0 Both Nicephorus and Theophanes agree, that the siege of Constantinople wasnow raised^ the fifteenth of August: (A. D. ?18.)butasthe former, our best witness,affirms that it continued thirteen months, the latter must be mistaken in supposingthat it began on the same day of the preceding year. I do not find that Pagi hasremarked this inconsistency. P In the second siege of Constantinople, I have followed Nicephorus, (Brev.p. 33 — 36.) Theophanes, (Chronograph, p. 324 — 334.) Cedrenus, (Compend,p. 449 — 152.) Zonaras, (torn. 2. p. 98—102.) Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 88.)Abulfeda, ( Annal. Moslem, p. 126.) and Abulpharagius, (Dynast, p. 130.) the mostsatisfactory of the Arabs. 1 Our sure and indefatigable guide in the middle ages and Byzantine history,Charlcs du Fresno du Cange, has treated in several places of the Greek fire, and hiscollections leave few gleanings behind. See particularly Glossar. Med. et Inlim.Griecitat. p. 1275. sub voce Hvp Qakarriov, ifyfey. Glossar. Med. et Tnfim, LatinitaLignis Grtecta. Observations sur Villehardouin, p. 305, 306. Observations surJoinville, p. 71,73. 'Theophanes styles him af^iri^rm. (p. 395.) Cedrenus (p. 437.) brings thisartist (from the rums of) Heliopolis in Egypt; and chemistry was indeed the pecu­liar science of the Egyptians.