OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. l63 Restore the children to their parents, the wives to theirhusbands; and shew them, by your generosi ty, of whatfriends they have obstinately deprived themselves." Thecity was saved by the virtue and authority of its conque­ror/ and when the Neapolitans returned to their houses,they found some consolation in the secret enjoyment oftheir hidden treasures. The barbarian garrison enlistedin the service of the emperor; Apulia and Calabria, de­livered from the odious presence of the Goths, acknow­ledged his dominion; and the tusks of the Calydonianboar, which were still shewn at Beneventum, are cu­riously described by the historian of Belisarius." The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had ex- vnigw.pected their deliverance from a prince, who remained nX,the inactive and almost indifferent spectator of their A^ff6'ruin. Theodatus secured his person within the walls of A- D-5*LRome, while his cavalry advanced forty miles on the Ap-pian way, and encamped in the Pomptine marshes;which, by a canal of nineteen miles in length, had beenrecently drained and converted into excellent pastures.bBut the principal forces of the Goths were dispersed inDalmatia, Venetia, and Gaul; and the feeble mind oftheir king was confounded by the unsuccessful event ofa divination, which seemed to presage the downfall ofhis empire.0 The most abject slaves have arraigned theguilt, or weakness, of an unfortunate master. The cha­racter of Theodatus was rigorously scrutinized by a free 1 Belisarius was reproved by pope Sylverius for the massacre. . He repeopledNaples, and imported colonies of African captives into Sicily, Calabria,'and Apulia(Hist. Miscell. lib, 16. in Muratori, torn. 1. p. 106,107). ■ „. * Beneventum was built by Diomede, the nephew of Meleager. (Ciuver. torn. 2.p. 1193, H96.) Tho Calydonian hunt is a picture of savage life. (Ovid. Metainorph.lib. 8.) Thirty or forty heroes were leagued against a hog: the brutes (not thohog) quarrelled with a lady for the head. b The Veceur.&viitm is strangely confounded by Cluverius (torn. 2. p. 1007.) withthe river Ufens. It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles, from Forum Appii toTer-raciua, ou which Horace embarked in the night. The Decennovium, which is men- *tioHed by Lucan, Dion Cassius and Cassiodorius, has been sufficiently ruined, re­stored, and obliterated. (d'Anville, Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 185, &c.) c A Jew gratified his contempt and hatred for all the Christians, by inclosing threebands, each often hogs, and discriminated by the names of Goths, Greeks, and Ho- 1mans. Of the first, almost all were found dead—almost all the second were alive—of the third, half dead, and the rest lost their bristles. No unsuitable emblem of theevent.