OCR Output c. vni.J bleazar's speeches. 335 " Since we long ago, my generous friends, resolved never tobe servants to the Romans, nor to any other than to Godhimself, who alone is the true and just Lord of mankind, thetime is now come that obliges us to make that resolution truein practice : and let us not at this time bring a reproach uponourselves for self-contradiction, while we formerly would notundergo slavery, though it were then without danger, butmust now, together with slavery, choose such punishmentsalso as are intolerable: I mean this upon the supposition thatthe Romans once reduce us under their power while we aroalive. We were the very first that revolted from them, andwo are the last that fight against them; and I cannot butesteem it as a favor that God hath granted us, that it is stillin our power to die bravely and in a state of freedom, whichhath not been the case of others who were conquered unex­pectedly. It is very plain that we shall be taken within aday's time ; but it is still an eligible thing to die after a glo­rious manner, together with our dearest friends. This is whatour enemies themselves cannot by any means hinder, althoughthey be very desirous to take us alive. Nor can we proposeto ourselves any more to fight them and beat them. It hadbeen proper, indeed, for us to have conjectured at the pur­pose of God much sooner, and at the very first, when we wereso very desirous of defending our liberty, and when we re­ceived such sore treatment from one another, and worse treat­ment from our enemies, and to have been sensible that thesame God who had of old taken the Jewish nation into hisfavor, had now condemned them to destruction; for had heeither continued favorable, or been but in a lesser degreedispleased with us, he had not overlooked the destruction ofso many men, or delivered his most holy city to be burnt anddemolished by our enemies. To be sure we weakly hoped tohave preserved ourselves, and ourselves alone, still in a stateof freedom, as if we had been guilty of no sins ourselves worthy the perusal of all the curious. It seems as if that philosophic ladywho survived, ch. ix. sect. 1, 2, remembered the substance of these discourses,as spoken by Eleazar, and so Josephus clothed them in his own words; at tholowest, they contain the Jewish notions on these heads as understood thenby our Josephus, and cannot but deserve a suitable regard from us.