OCR Output CHAP. LI. . 385 the battle. Her first arrow pierced the hand of hisstandard-bearer: her second wounded Thomas in theeye; and the fainting Christians no longer beheld theirensign or their leader. Yet the generous champion ofDamascus refused to withdraw to his palace: his woundwas dressed on the rampart; the fight was continued tillthe evening; and the Syrians rested on their arms. Inthe silence of the night, the signal was given by a strokeon the great bell; the gates were thrown open, and eachgate discharged an impetuous column on the sleepingcamp of the Saracens. Caled was the first in arms; atthe head of four hundred horse he flew to the post ofdanger, and the tears trickled down his iron cheeks, ashe uttered a fervent ejaculation. O God! who neverdeepest, look upon thy servants, and do not deliver theminto the hands of their enemies. The valour and victoryof Thomas were arrested by the presence of the sword ofGod; with the knowledge of the peril, the Moslems re­covered their ranks, and charged the assailants in theflank and rear. After the loss of thousands, the Chris­tian general retreated with a sigh of despair, and thepursuit of the Saracens was checked by the military en­gines of the rampart. The city After a siege of seventy days," the patience,by'storm and perhaps the provisions, of the Damascenesand capi- were exhausted; and the bravest of their chiefs tulation, A.D.654. submitted to the hard dictates of necessity. Inthe occurrences of peace and war, they had been taughtto dread the fierceness, of Caled, and to revere the mildvirtues of Abu Obeidah. At the hour of midnight, onehundred chosen deputies of the clergy and people were 0 Abulfeda allows only seventy days for the siege of Damascus (Annal. Moslem.p. 67. vers. Keiske) ; but Elmacin, who mentions this opinion, prolongs the term to•U months, and notices the use of balistic by the Saracens. (Hist. Saracen, p. 25.32.)Even this longer period ia insufficient to fill the interval between the battle of Aiz-naditi (July, A. D. 633.) and the accession of Omar, (24th July, A. D. 634.) towhose reign the conquest of Damascus is un;uu m < msl y ascribed. ( AI Wakidi, apudOckley, vol. 1. p. 115. Abulpharagiue, Dynast, p. 112. vers. Pocock.) Perhaps,as in the Trojan war, the operations were interrupted by excursions and detach-nents, till the last seventy days of the siege. VOL. VI. 2 C