OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL crated by the reverence of succeeding generations. Their secretgloom, the imagined residence of an invisible power, by presentingno distinct object of fear or worship, impressed the mind with a stilldeeper sense of religious horror6t; and the priests, rude and illiterateajs they were, had been taught by experience, the use of everyajtifice that could preserve and fortify impressions so well suited totheir own interest. Its effeas in The fame ignorance, which renders barbarians incapable of con-peace, cei ving or embracing the useful restraints of laws, exposes them nakedand unarmed to the blind terrors of superstition. The German priests,improving this favourable temper cf their countrymen, had assumeda jurisdiction, even in temporal concerns, which the magistratecould not venture to exercise; and the haughty warrior patientlysubmitted to the lasli of correction, when it was inflicted, not byany human power, but by the immediate order of the god ofwar 6+. The defects of civil policy were sometimes supplied bythe interposition of ecclesiastical authority. The latter was con­stantly exerted to maintain silence and decency in the popularassemblies; and was sometimes extended to a more enlarged concernfor the national welfare. A solemn procession was occasionally ce­lebrated in the present countries of Mecklenburg and Pomerania.The unknown symbol of the Earth, covered with a thick veil, wasplaced on a carriage drawn by cows; and in this manner, thegoddess, whose common residence was in the ifle of Rugen, visitedieveral adjacent tribes of her worshippers. During her progress, thefound of war was hushed, quarrels were suspended, arms laid aside,and the restless Germans had an opportunity of tasting the blessingsof peace and harmony 6s. The truce of God, so often and so in­effectually proclaimed by the clergy of the eleventh century, was anobvious imitation of this ancient custom 66.in war. But the influence of religion was far more powerful to inflame, than to moderate, the fierce passions of the Germans. Interest and fanaticism 5