OCR Output TO THE DECLINE AND FALL anxious curiosity the letter which contained the sentence of his fate. " You can­not be ignorant how much you have deserved my displeasure. I am not insensi­ble of the services of Antonina. To her merits and intercession I have grantedyour life, and permit you to retain a part of your treasures, which might be justlyforfeited to the state. Let your gratitude, where it is due, be displayed, not inwords, but in your future behaviour." I know not how to believe or to relate thetransports which the hero is said to have received this ignominious pardon. Hefell prostrate before his wife, he kissed the feet of his saviour, and he devoutly pro­mised to live the grateful and submissive slave of Antonina. A fine of one hundredand twenty thousand pounds sterling Was levied on the fortunes of Belisarius; andwith the office of count, or master of the royal stable, he accepted the conduct ofthe Italian war. At his departure from Constantinople, his friends, and even thepublic, were persuaded that as soon as he regained his freedom, he would renouncehis dissimulation; and that his wife, Theodora, and perhaps the emperor himself,would be sacrificed to the just revenge of a virtuous rebel. Their hopes were de­ceived; and the unconquerable patience and loyalty of Belisarius appear either be­low or above the character of a man.(1) CHAPTER XLII. SUUe of the Barbaric world.—Establishment of the Lombards on the Danube.—Tribes and. inroads of the Sclavonians.—Origin, empire, and embassies of the Turks.—The flight' of the Avars.—Chosroes I. or Nushirvan, king of Persia.—His prosperous reign andtears with the Romans.—The Cholchian or Lazicwar.—The Ethiopians. Our estimate of personal merit is relative to the common faculties of mankind.The aspiring efforts of genius, or virtue, either in active or speculative life, aremeasured, not so much by their real elevation, as by the height to which they as­cend above the level of their age or country; and the same stature, which in apeople of giants would pass unnoticed, must appear conspicuous in a race of pigmies.Leonidas, and his three hundred companions, devoted their lives at Thermopylse;but the education of the infant, the boy, and the man, had prepared,-and almostensured, this memorable sacrifice; and each Spartan would approve, rather thanadmire, an act of duty, of which himself and eight thousand of his fellow-citizenswere equally capable. (2) The great Pompey might inscribe on his trophies, thathe had defeated in battle two millions of enemies, and reduced fifteen hundred ci­ties from the lake Mseotis to the Red Sea;(3) but the fortune of Rome flew beforehis eagles; the nations were oppressed by their own fears, and the invincible le­gions which he commanded, had been formed by the habits of conquest, and thediscipline of ages. In this view, the character of Belisarius may be deservedlyplaced above the heroes of the ancient republics. His imperfections flowed fromthe contagion of the times; his virtues were his own, the free gift of nature or re­flection; he raised himself without a master or a rival; and so inadequate were thearms committed to his hand, that his sole advantage was derived from the prideand presumption of his adversaries. Under his command, the subjects of Justinianoften deserved to be called Romans: but the unwarlike appellation of Greeks wasimposed as a term of reproach by the haughty Goths, who affected to blush, thatthey might dispute the kingdom of Italy with a nation of tragedians, pantomimes,andpirates. (4) The climate of Asia has indeed been found less congenial than thatof Europe, to military spirit: those populous Countries were enervated by luxury,despotism, and superstition; and the monks were more expensive and more nume­rous than the soldiers of the east. The regular force of the empire had once (1) The continuator of t!ie chronicle of Marecllimis gives, in a few decent words, the substance of the An­ecdotes.—Belisarius de Oriente evocatu's, in offensam periculumque incurren* grave, et invidise subjacens, rur-sus remiutur in ltaliam. (p. 54.) (2) It will tie a pleasure, not a task, to mad Herodotus (lib. vii. c.104. 134. p. 550. 61S.) The conversation ofXerxes and Dentaratus at Thermnpytse, is one of the most interesting; and moral scenes in history. It wasthe torture of the royal Spartan to behold, with anguish and remorse, the virtue of his country. (3) See this proud inscription in Pliny. (Hist. Natur. vii. 27.) Few men have more exquisitely tasted ofglory and disgrace, nor could Juvenal (Satir. 10.) produce a more striking example of the vicissitudes of for­tune, and the vanity of human wishes. (4) Tpxtxou; if n» w srpoTip* cv^tvsc (j IraXwu r.xorrx tlSw, oti //ij TpxyvSo-j;, *** vaurw; A.»»o?uT«;. This last epithet of Procopius is too nobly translated by pirates: naval thieves are the proper words: strippers■of garments, either for injury or insult. (Demosthenes contra Conrfn. inKeiske Orator. Grecian), ii, p. 1354.)