OCR Output ROMA. 723 ROMA. ltd ao the Piltfine hill seems also to have been t^inws accepted by those who referred the realtiiiiifm of Row to a much later period. Theif!»Q respecting this settlement is interesting tot^wfripoer, u the names of certain places at ■ itn said to be derived from circumstancesvttftl vita it Toe Palatium, or Palatine hill,t! *u tbooght to hare been named after the Ar­an wri of Palladium, the » and one I havingt in toe course of time; though othersH tot apprhalioa in different ways, and espe-tj fr>«n Pallas, the grandson of Evander by his|shr Dyna sod Hercules (Paus. viii. 43;ru L it.) So, too, the Porta Carmen falls ofSeman city derived its name from a neighbour-i.ur of Carmentis, or Carmenta, the mother ofi»fr. (Diooys. L c; Virg. Aen. viii. 338.):jc ioVtd can be a more striking proof of theffjBj of tou tradition, as well as of the deep rootn s tnost have taken among the Roman people, it .rmmstance that to a late period divine■r> MBthroed to be paid to Carmenta, as well * ttinder himself. Another indication of aJ trDtenry was the belief which prevailedi! "'■ Romans, and was entertained even by enteif as Livy and Tacitus, that letters and>tf civilisation were fir»t introduced among»■» Etander. (Lit. i. 7; Tac Ann. xi. 14;&M.H.) a freaaer part of those who held the second * rr^arued Aeneas, or one of his immediateMarts, at the founder of Rome. This theory*n.niLHy current among Greek writers. the Trojans alone were regarded as thebn: awetimea they are represented as uniting1 'wk with the Aborigines. Occasionally, how-G-wfca are substituted for Trojans, and thefen* is ascribed to a son of Ulysses andsay, in one case Aeneas is represented as- auo Italy in compam with Ulysses. But * lit'm rirw was more particularly Grecian, it■Tied by some Latin writers of high repute. ■ i,' tf. 6) ascribes a Trojan origin to Rome;^yntiw (ir. I), without expressly naming ■ u the bonder, evidently refers its origin to « ^oainmqae vides, hospes,qua maxima Roma Si iVygem Aenean coins et herba fuit;" > ft tht same passage he also refers to therjf the Palatine hill by Evander. Oner"*«at form of this tradition, which appears» bean known to Aristotle (Dionys. i. 72),•v» cither a matron or a female slave, nameda* timing the ships after the Trojans had. TVy were thus compelled to remain; and^iJement became a flourishing city, theyr after the woman who had been the cause ttrri form of tradition, which ascribed the■ litnt to Rom u las, was by far the most1 nestred among the Romans. It mustr** ultimately forming the national tra-l*<4 there is every probability that it was ofr**ih, aa many of its incidents serve to ex--'■aa rites and institutions, such as the wor-'t**ta, tl^ Luperralia, La rental ia, Lemuria,: -r-f-v *c (Lewis, voL i. p. 409.) The"a* rf high antiquity among the Romans,rsokriariiitfaBi rwpect to some of the Greek accounts. It was recorded in its present form byFabius Pictor, one of the earliest Roman annalists,and was adopted by other ancient antiquarians andhistorians (Dionys. i. 79). Nay, from the testimonyof Livy we may infer that it prevailed at a muchearlier date, since he tells us (x. 23) that an imageof the she-wolf suckling the two royal infants waserected near the Ficus Ruminalis by the curule aedilcs,B. c 296.* The story is too well known to be re- THE CAriTOUNE WOLF. peatcd here. We shall merely remark that althoughaccording to this tradition Aeneas still remains themythical ancestor of the Romans, yet that the buildingof two cities and the lapse of many generations in­tervene between his arrival in Italy and the founda­tion of Rome by his descendant Romulus. Aeneashimself founds Lavinium, and his son AscaniusAlba Longa, after a lapse of thirty years. We arelittle concerned about the sovereigns who are sup­posed to have reigned in the latter city down to thetime of Numitor, the grandfather of Romulus, ex- * It has been conjectured that this was probablythe same statue mentioned by Cicero (</e Dt9. i. 12,Cat. iii. 8), and described as having been struck bylightning; but this can hardly be the case, as theimage described by Cicero stood in the Capitol.A bronze statne answering Cicero's description isstill preserved in the Capitoline Museum at Rome,which is regarded by Niebuhr as a genuine relic(Hut. vol. i. p. 210), and has been immor­talised in the verse of Byron. A modern criticfinds it a production too clumsy for the state of Ro­man art at the time assigned by Livy, and thinksthat the holes in the hind-leg of the wolf were notproduced by lightning, but arise from a defect inthe casting. (Braun, Ituins and Museums of Home,p. 81.) Kabius Pictor, however, who mentions thisstatue in the passage cited from his work byDionysius (L c), expressly remarks the primitivenature of its workmanship,— xaX,<(a wonj/iaraTraAa.cn ipyaurlas,— though considerably less thanacentnry must have elapsed between his time and thedate of its erection. It was rude, therefore, evenwhen compared with the state of Roman art towardsthe end of the third century n. c, though it hndbeen erected only at the beginning of that century.Mommsen is inclined to believe that the Capitoliuewolf is the genuine one erected by the Ogulnii anddescribed by Livy, from the circumstance of itshaving been found near the arch of Severus. (DeComitio Horn., in the Annali dell' Institute^ 1844,vol. xvi. p. 300.) Whoever has seen the group willperhaps at all events agree with Winckelmann thatthe twins are evidently of a different period fromthe wolf. 3 a 9