OCR Output CHAP. LI. 415 phet; but we are desirous of peace, and cheerfully submitto pay tribute and obedience to his temporal successors. Thetribute was ascertained at two pieces of gold for the headof every Christian: but old men, monks, women, andchildren, of both sexes, under sixteen years of age, wereexempted from this personal assessment; the Coptsabove and below Memphis swore allegiance to the caliph,and promised a hospitable entertainment of three days toevery Mussulman who should travel through their coun­try. By this charter of security, the ecclesiastical andcivil tyranny of the Melchites was destroyed :r the ana­themas of St. Cyril were thundered from every pulpit;and the sacred edifices, with the patrimony of the church,were restored to the national communion of the Jacobites,who enjoyed without moderation the moment of triumphand revenge. At the pressing summons of Amrou, theirpatriarch Benjamin emerged from his desert; and, afterthe first interview, the courteous Arab affected to declare,that he had never conversed with a Christian priest ofmore innocent manners and a more venerable aspect*In the march from Memphis to Alexandria, the lieutenantof Omar intrusted his safety to the zeal and gratitude ofthe Egyptians: the roads and bridges were diligentlyrepaired; and in every step of his progress, he coulddepend on a constant supply of provisions and intelli­gence. The Greeks of Egypt, whose numbers couldscarcely equal a tenth of the natives, were overwhelmedby the universal defection; they had ever been hated,they were no longer feared: the magistrate fled fromhis tribunal, the bishop from his altar; and the distantgarrisons were surprised or starved by the surrounding r The prefecture of Egypt, and the conduct of the war, had been trusted by I !<•-radius to the patriarch Cyrus. (Theophan.p. 380, 281.) "In Spain," (saidJames II.) do you not consult your priests r" "We do (replied the Catholic am­bassador), and our affairs succeed accordingly." I know not how to relate the plansof Cyrus, of paying tribute without impairing the revenue, and of converting Omarby his marriage with the emperor's daughter. (Nicephor. Breviar. p. 17,18.) • See the life of Benjamin, in Kenaudot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alexandrin. p. 156—172.) who has enriched the conquest of Egypt with some facts from the Arabictext of Severus the Jacobite historian.