OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 85 affected in the same manner by the report of the others that hadbeen with him : and, upon his death, there was a lamentation*made by all men; not such an one as was to be made in way offlattery to their rulers, while they did but counterfeit sorrow,but such as was real; while every body grieved at his deathras if they had lost one that was near to diem. And truly suchhad been his easy conversation with men, that it turned greatlyto the advantage of his son among all; and| among others, thesoldiery were so peculiarly affected to him, that they reckonedit an eligible thing, if need were, to die themselves, if he mightbut attain to the government. 9. But whe:i Tiberius had given order to Euodus to bringthe children to him the next day in the morning, he prayed tohis country-gods to shew him a manifest signal, which of thosechildren should come to the government; being very desirous toleave it to his son's son, but still depending upon what Godshould foreshew concerning them, more thanupon his own opi­nion and inclination ; so he made this to be the omen, that thegovernment should be left to him who should come to him firstthe next day. When he had thus resolved within himself, hesent to his grandson's tutor, and ordered him to bring the childto him early in the morning, as supposing that God would per­mit him to be made emperor. But God proved opposite to hisdesignation ; for, while Tiberius was thus contriving matters,and as soon as it was at all day, he bid Euodus to call in that childwhich should be there ready. So he went out, and found Cai-us before the door, for Tiberius was not yet come, but staidwaiting for his breakfast; for Euodus knew nothing of what hislord intended ; so he said to Caius, " Thy father calls thee," andthen brought him in. As soon as Tiberius saw Caius, and notbefore, he reflected on the power of God, and how the ability ofbestowing the government oa whom he would, was entirely takenfrom him; and thence he was not able to establish what he hadintended. So he greatly lamented that his power of establishingwhat he had before contrived was taken from him, and that hisgrandson Tiberius was not only to lose the Roman empire byhis fatality, but his own safety also, because his preservatioawould now depend upon such as would be more potent than him­self, who would think it a thing not to be borne, that a kinsmanshould live with them, and so his relation would not be able toprotect him : but he would be feared and hated by him who hadthe supreme authority, partly on account of his being next to theempire, and partly on account of his perpetually contriving toget the governmenti both in order to preserve himself, and to beat the head of affairs also. Now Tiberius had been very much given