OCR Output Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE. formed to obey rather than so command, though, perhaps, he neverattained the skill of a consummate general, he was capable, by hisvalour, constancy, and experience, of executing the most arduousundertakings. Nor were the vices of Maximian less useful to hisbenefactor. Insensible to pity, and fearless of consequences, hewas the ready instrument of every act of cruelty which the policyof that artful prince might at once suggest and disclaim. As soonas a bloody sacrifice had been offered to prudence or to revenge,Diocletian, by his seasonable intercession, saved the remaining fewwhom he had never designed to punish, gently censured the severityof .his stern colleague, and enjoyed the comparison of a golden andan iron age, which was universally applied to their opposite maximsof government. Notwithstanding the difference of their characters,the two emperors maintained, on the throne, that friendship whichthey had contracted in a private station. The haughty turbulent*spirit of Maximian, so fatal afterwards to himself and to thepublic peace, was accustomed to respect the genius of Diocletian,,and confessed the ascendant of reason over brutal violence 8. Froma motive either of pride or superstition, the two emperors assumedthe titles, the one of Jovius, the other of Herculius. Whilst themotion of the world (such was the language of their venal orators)was maintained by the all-seeing wisdom of Jupiter, the invinciblearm of Hercules purged the earth of monsters and tyrants 9. But even the omnipotence of Joviusand Herculius was insufficient to Association of two Cæsars, fdstain the weight of the public administration. The prudence of Dio- Galerius andcletian discovered, that the empire, assailed on every side by the barba- a. d. 292".rians, required on every side the presence of a great army, and of an Ma '*emperor. With this view he resolved once more to divide his unwieldypower, and with the inferior title of Cafars, to confer on two generalsof approved merit an equal share of the sovereign authority ". Ga* ■terius, surnamed Armentarius, from his original profession of aiierdsman, and Gonstantius, who from his pale complexion had 5 acquired