OCR Output C. V.] THE ID UME AN S. Ill were in; but when these were also made sensible that theIdumeans were come in, none of them durst come to theirassistance; only they returned the terrible echo of wailing,and lamented their misfortunes. A great howling of thewomen was excited also, and every one of the guards was indanger of being killed. The zealots also joined in the shoutsraised by the Idumeans ; and the storm itself rendered thecry more terrible: nor did the Idumeans spare any body;for as they are naturally a most barbarous and bloody nation,and had been distressed by the tempest, they made use oftheir weapons against those that had shut the gates againstthem, and acted in the same manner as to those that suppli­cated for their lives, and to those that fought them, insomuchthat they ran through those with their swords who desiredthem to remember the relation there was between them, andbegged of them to have regard to their common temple. Nowthere was at present neither any place for flight, nor anyhope of preservation, but as they were driven one uponanother in heaps, so were they slain. Thus the greater partwere driven together by force, as there was now no place ofretirement, and the murderers were upon them, and, havingno other way, threw themselves down headlong into the city;whereby, in my opinion, they underwent a more miserabledestruction than that which they avoided, because that was avoluntary one. And now the outer temple was all of itoverflowed with blood; and that day, as it came on, saw eightthousand five hundred dead bodies there. 2. But the rage of the Idumeans was not satiated by theseslaughters ; but they now betook themselves to the city, andplundered every house, and slew every one they met: andfor the other multitude they esteemed it needless to go onwith killing them, but they sought for the high-priests, andthe generality went with the greatest zeal against them : andas soon as they caught them they slew them, and then stand­ing upon their dead bodies, in way of jest, upbraided Ananuswith his kindness to the people, and Jesus with his speechmade to them from the wall. Nay, they proceeded to thatdegree of impiety, as to cast away their dead bodies without