OCR Output PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 60S* »-r<- thai it m m side H u alleged that Si Jon in styled in ScriptureL- rate ben of Canaan (Cn. xlix. 13), whilst'tr» it aat mrationnl till the invasion of Palestinei i±» larselitea. (Jotk. xix. 29.) But in the formermmr* there is nothing to connect the person ■ ■ ■> lb* cur ; and the second argument is at bestn> -amative. It is further urged that the name ofm anas not race occur in Homer, though the • •*n< art frequently mentioned; and in one pos­er (Oaf. xiii. 285) Sidonia is used as the genera]as* of f'h<«-rjicia. This, however, only shows that,tke tune of Homer, Sidonia was the leading city,■J cm* not prove that it was founded before Tyre.:' same remark may be applied to the silence ofThai Tyre was in existence, and mostana n flourishing city in the time of Homer, isle; since, as will be seen further on,the colony of Gadeira, or Cadiz, not.- mf-.tr the Trojan War; and many years of-nrmal prosperity must have elapsed beforei raoM have planted so distant a possession,an, whs are not bound to historical accuracy, willin preference to another merelysonorous, or for some similar(xvi. p. 756), in commentingumstance of Homer's silence,enly the poets who glorifiedit the Phoenician colonists, both in AfricaCave the preference to Tyre. This pas-been cited in proof uf Strabo's own decisionrxatr af Sudan; but, from the ambiguous word-«/ c nothing certain can be concluded. Movers)LL p. 118) even construes it in favour ofI, bat it must be confessed that the oppositet b rather strengthened by another passagei *0) in which Strabo calls Sidon the metropolisu Phoenicians (iV MTrpoVo\u' auric). Onaiier hand, it mar be remarked, that all the; sAftenl Phoenician traditions relate to Tyre,»< to Sidon; that Tyre is called ficcrtpa ♦oi-r i M-,~i_<r the epigrammatist (Anth. Grate.- ;•}). who lived before the time of Strabo; ■ rnrt-iption to the same effect is found on aaf AaCanehskS IV., B. c. 175—164 (Gesen. i. 262); and that the later Romantanimously to have re­nt tan claim of Tyre to superior antiquity assnanc Thus the emperor Hadrian settled theok .h«p«x*> in favour of that city (Suidas, s. v.»t Ttaaos ). and other testimonies will be foundnava* (iii. 16X tlpian (Dig. tit. xxv.), andansa (*. Forpkjr. p. 7, ed. Wytt) It mayW rvoarkctl that if the Phoenicians came fromGmSt, the nam* of Tyre shows that itof their earliest settlements onThis dispute, however, was notsal |s Tjtw and Sidon, and Byblus snd Berytusstagnant no be regarded as the oldest of the * haw ever this may be, it seems certain tintatvet of the Phoenician settlements in Syria,■ wan. perhaps. Hamath or Kpiphania on theha, raeiihil the conquest of Canaan by theis usually placed in the yearof Joshua into Canaanin the history ofIn order to oppose his progress,organised a confederacy of the(V.m*. it 10.) But the alliesth great slaughter. Ha*or wasiil (•entrsreal, aud the territory of the cou-c u «= af federate kings, with the exception of a few fortresses,fell into the power of the Israelites. The defeatedhost was pursued as far as Sidon; but neither thatnor any other town of Phoenicia, properly so called,fell into the hsnds of the Jews, nor on the wholedoes the expedition of Joshua seem to huve hadmuch effect on its political condition. Yet therewas a constant succession of hostilities between thePhoenicians and some of the Jewish tribes; and inthe book of Judges (x. 12) we find the Sidoniansmentioned among the oppressors of Israel. Sidon, then, must have early risen to he a power-fill kingdom, as may indeed he also inferred fromthe Homeric poems, in which its trade and manufac­tures are frequently alluded to. Yet a year beforethe capture of Troy, the Sidonians were defeated bythe king of Ascalon, and they were obliged to takerefuge—or at all events a great proportion of them—at Tyre. (Justin, xviii. 3.) We are ignoranthow this conquest was effected. The name ofAscalon probably represents the whole pentapolis ofPhilistia; and we know that shortly after this eventthe Philistines were powerful enough to rednce thekingdom of Israel to the condition of a tributary,and to retain it as such till the time of David.Justin, in the passage just cited, speaks of Tyre asfounded by the Sidonians (condidernnt) on this oc­casion. This expression, however, by no meansimplies * first foundation, since in the next chapterhe again uses the same word to denote the restora­tion of Tyre by Alexander the Great. It has beenalready said, as will appear at greater length in theaccount of the Phoenician colonies, that Tyre musthave been a city of considerable importance beforethis period. The account of Justin is corroborate*!by Josephus, who, in allusion no doubt to the sameevent, places the foundation of Tyre 240 years beforethat of Solomon's temple. (Ant. viii. 3.) If Justinfollowed the computation of the Parian marble, thefall of Troy took place in the year 1209 n. cj andif the disputed date of Solomon's temple be fixed at969 B. c, the aera adopted by Movers (Phon. ii.pt. i. p. 149), then 969 + 240=1209. Josephus,in the passage cited, uses the word ofrnirij, "adwelling in," and could no more have .meant theoriginal foundation of Tyre than Justin, since thatcity is mentioned in the Old Testament as in exist­ence two centuries and a half before the building ofthe temple. l-'rom the period of the Sidonian migration, Tyremust be regarded as the head of the Phoeniciannation. During the headship of Sidon, the historyof Phoenicia is mythical. Phoenix, who is repre­sented as the father of Cadmus and Europa, is amere personification of the country; I Wins, the firstking, is the god Baal; and Agenor, the reputedfounder both of Tyre and Sidon, is nothing but aGreek epithet, perhaps of Hercules. The history ofTyre also, befnre the age of Solomon, is unconnected.Solomou's relations with Hiram, king of Tyre, ledJosephus to search the Tyrian histories of Dius andMenander. Hiram succeeded Abibal; and fromthis time to the foundation of Carthage there is aregular succession of dates and reigns. Tyre was in fact a double city, the original townbeing on the continent, and the new one on an islandabout half a mile from the shore. When the latterwas founded, the original city obtained the name otPalac-Tyrus, or Old Tyre. The island, however,was proluibly used as a naval station from the veryi earliest times, and as a place consecrated to the u It