OCR Output 92 LIVY. if it be true, as I find in some annals, that Pontius, sonof Herennius, the Samnite general, was sent under theyoke along with the rest, to atone for the disgrace ofthe consuls. I think it indeed less strange to find un­certainty, with respect to the treatment of the Samnitegeneral, than that there should be a doubt whether itwas Lucius Cornelius, in quality of dictator, (LuciusPapirius Cursor being master of the horse, who actedat Caudium, and afterwards at Luceria, as the singleavenger of the disgrace of the Romans, enjoying thebest deserved triumph, perhaps next to that of FuriusCamillus, which had ever yet been obtained,) or whe­ther that honor belongs to the consuls, and particularlyto Papirius. This uncertainty is followed by another,whether at the next election [A.U.C. 435. B.C. 317]Papirius Cursor was chosen consul a third time, withQuintus Aulus Cerretanus a second time, being re­elected in requital pf his services at Luceria; or whe­ther it was Lucius Papirius Mugillanus, the surnamebeing mistaken. 16. From henceforth the accounts are clear that theother wars were conducted to a conclusion by the con­suls. Aulius, by one successful battle, intirely con­quered the Ferentans. The city, to which their armyhad retreated after its defeat, surrendered on terms,and was ordered to give hostages. Similar fortune at­tended the other consul in his operations against theSatricans ; who, though Roman citizens, had, after themisfortune at Caudium, revolted to the Samnites, andreceived a garrison into their city. The Satricans,however, when the Roman army approached theirwalls, sent deputies to sue for peace, with humble in -treaties, to whom the consul answered harshly, that 'theymust not come again to him, unless they either putto death, or delivered up the Samnite garrison :' whichwords struck greater terror into the colonists than thearms with which they were threatened. The deputies,on this, several times asking the consul how he thoughtthat they, who were few and weak, could attempt touse force against a garrison so strong and well armed,