OCR Output SIT.. 69 comes Tauriscus of Cyzicum; Ariston and Eunicus of Mytilene,and Hecataeus, are also much admired; and about the age ofPompey the Great, we have Praxitiles, Posidonius the Ephesian,and Ledus Stratiates, who executed battles, and men in armour;and Zopyrus, who engraved the magistrates of the Areopagus andthe judgment of Orestes on two goblets, which were valued at12,000 sesterces. Then there is Pytheus, two ounces of whosework sold for 10,000 sesterces; the subject was Ulysses andDiomed carrying off the Palladium, intended to be attached to ajar.5 The same artist likewise made little figures, which he callsMagiriscia,6 and which were carved on small cups, and so deli­cately wrought that it was impossible to take models of them with­out injuring them. Teucer also, who made figures on medallions, 7gained considerable credit. But this art was so suddenly lost,that these works are now valued solely for their antiquity, thefigures having been so rubbed down, that they are scarcely visible.Silver is affected by mineral waters, and even by the saline vapoursthat arise from them, as is observed to be the case in the middleof Spain. 56. OF SIL ; 8 WHO FIItST FAINTED WITH SIL, AND IN WHATMANNER. Certain pigments are also found connected with the gold andsilver ores, viz. Sil and Cceruleum. Sil is properly a kind of mud;the best kind is said to come from Attica; it costs two denarii thepound. The next in value is the gritty kind, which is half theprice of the first: the third is the dense kind, which some callSyricum, as coming from the isle of Syros. This kind had beenpreviously brought from Achaia, and is used for the shades ofpictures; its price is two sesterces the pound. The bright kind,which comes from Gaul, is sold at two ases less than the former.This kind, and that from Attica, are used for giving the lights to » " In phialse emblemate;" the emblemala appear to have been ornamentedmetallic plates, which were occasionally attached to vessels or other articles,and removed at pleasure; see Adam, p. US, and the authorities there re­ferred to. 6 Said to be the diminutive from Mayetpoc, coquus.1 " Teucer crustarius." s Sil appears to have been a kind of ochre; see lib. xxxv. sec. 17, 20. Secalso Vitruvius, vii. 7.