OCR Output 376 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Chaldeans; and they exercised themselves inthat wisdom which he had ordered theyshould apply themselves to. Now amongthese were four of the family of Zedekiah, ofmost excellent dispositions; the one of whomwas called Daniel; another was called Ana­nias; another Misael, and the fourth Azarias.*And the king of Babylon changed theirnames, and commanded that they shouldmake use of other names. Daniel he calledBaltasar; Ananias, Shadrach; Misael, Me-shach; and Azarias, Abednego.f These theking had in esteem, and continued to love;on account of their excellent temper, theirapplication to learning, and the progressthey had made in wisdom. Now Daniel and his kinsmen had resolvedto use a severe diet, and to abstain from thosekinds of food which came from the king'stable; and entirely to forbear to eat of allliving creatures. So he came to Ashpenaz,who was that eunuch to whom the care ofthem was committed,J and desired him totake and spend what was brought for themfrom the king, but to give them pulse anddates for their food, and any thing else, be­sides the flesh of living creatures, that hepleased; for that their inclinations were tothat sort of food, and that they disliked theother. He replied, that he was ready toserve them in what they desired; but hesuspected that they would be discovered bythe king, from their meagre bodies, and thealteration of their countenances; because it could not be avoided but their bodies andcomplexions must be changed with their diet;especially while they would be clearly dis­covered by the finer appearance of the otherchildren, who would tare better; and thusthey should bring him into danger, and occa­sion him to be punished. However, theypersuaded Arioch to give them what theydesired for ten days, by way of trial; and, incase their habits of bodies were not altered,to go on in the same way; as expecting thatthey should not be hurt thereby afterwards;but that if he saw them look worse than therest, he should reduce them to their formerdiet. Now it appeared that they were sofar from becoming worse, by the use of thisfood, that they grew plumper, and fuller inbody than the rest; insomuch that he thoughtthose who fed upon what came from the king'stable seemed less plump and full; whilethose that were with Daniel looked as if theyhad lived in plenty, and in all sorts of luxury.||Arioch, therefore, from that time, securelytook himself what the king sent every dayfrom his supper, according to custom, to thechildren; but gave them the aforementioneddiet; while they had their souls in somemeasure more pure, and less burdened, ands"o fitter for learning; and had their bodiesbetter adapted for labour. For they neitherhad the former oppressed and heavy withvariety of meats; nor were the other effemi­nate on the same account. So they readilyunderstood all the learning that was among * It was a usual thing for conquerors to change thenames of the persons they vanquished in war, in testi­mony of their absolute power over them. Thus we findthe king of Babylon changing the name of Mattaniah intoZedekiah, when he constituted him king of Judah,2 Kings xxiv. 17. But our learned Usher has farther re­marked that the king of Egypt gave Eliakim the name ofJehoiakim, thereby to testify, that he ascribed his victoryover the Babylonians to Jehovah, the God of Israel, bywhose excitation, as he pretended, 2Chron. xxxv. 21, 22.he undertook the expedition. Patrick's and CahnersCommentary. B. t It is very remarkable, that, as all their former namesrelated to the true God, so all the names which on thisoccasion were imposed upon these four Jewish youthshad some reference or other to Babylonish idols. Danielin Hebrew, signifies God is my judge; Belteshazzar, inChaldee, is the treasure of Baal; Hananiah, in Hebrew,is well pleasing to God; Shadrach, in Chaldee, the in­spiration of the sun; Mishael, in Hebrew, proceedingfro;n God; Meshach, in Chaldee, belonging to the god­dess Sheshach; Azariah, in Hebrew, God is my help; and Abednego, in Chaldee, the servant of Nego, i. e. thesun or the morning-star, both deities among the Babylo­nians, and so called because of their brightness. Colmef'sCommentary on Dan. i. 7. B. \ What we render master of the eunuchs, may verylikely signify the chief minister of Nebuchadnezzar'scourt. Such officers, in the palaces of eastern princes,were usually called eunuchs; because they who had thecontrol of the king's household, as we say, were ordi­narily such, though many times it might be otherwiseThe Jews have a notion, that Daniel and his three com­panions were, by the order of Nebuchadnezzar, madeeunuchs, that the prophecy of Isaiah might be fulfilled:—Thy sons, that shall issue from thee, shall they takeaway, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the kingof Babylon, chap, xxxix. 7. Buf that is no conclusivereason; because, in that prophecy, as well as in the pas­sage we are now upon, the name of eunuch might meanno more than any person who had an employment at court.Calmefs Commentary. B. II Daniel i. 15.