OCR Output 434 WARS or THE JEWS. Book II. against external violence; and as he knew the Romans wouldfall upon Galilee, he built walls in proper places about Jatapataand Barsabee, and Selamis; and besides these about Capharec-cho, and Japha, and Sigo, and what they call Mount Tabor, andTariqheae, and Tiberias. Moreover, he built walls about thecaves near the lake of Gennesar, which places lay in the LowerGalilee; the same he did to the places of Upper Galilee, as wellas to the rock called the Rock of the Achabari, and to S-ph, andJamneh, and Meroth; and in Gaulanitis he fortified Selucia, andSogane, and Gamala; but as to those of Sepphoris, they werethe only people to whom he gave leave to build their own walls,and this because he perceived they were rich and wealthy, andready to go to war, without standing in need of any injunctionsfor that purpose. The case was the same with Gischala, whichhad a wall built about it by John the son of Levi himself, butwith the consent of Josephus: but for the building of the restof the fortresses, he laboured together with all the other build­ers, and was present to give all the necessary orders for thatpurpose. He also got together an army out of Galilee, of morethan an hundred thousand young men, all of which he armedwith the old weapons, which he had collected together, and pre­pared for them. 7. And when he had considered that the Roman power becameinvincible, chiefly by their readiness in obejing orders, and theconstant exercise of their arms, he despaired of teaching thesehis men the use of their arms, which was to be obtained by ex­perience; but observing that their readiness in obeying orders,was owing to the multitude of their officers, he made his parti­tions in his army more after the Roman manner, and appointeda great many subalterns. He also distributed the soldiers intovarious classes, whom he put under captains of tens, and captains,of hundreds, and then under captains of thousands; and besidesthese he had commanders of largerbodies of men. Healsotaughtthem to give the signals one to another, and to call and recal thesoldiers by the trumpets, how to expand the wings of an army,and make them wheel about, and when one wing hath had suc­cess, to turn again andassist those that were hard set, and to joinin the defence of what had most suffered. He also continuallyinstructed them in what concerned the courage of the soul, andthe hardiness of the body; and above all he exercised them forwar, by declaring to them distinctly the good order of the Ro­mans, and that they were to fight with men who, both by thestrength of their bodies, and courage of their souls, had con­quered in a manner the whole habitable earth. He told themthat he should make trial of the good order they would observe in war,i