OCR Output .' O F R 0 M E. 375 ple, were found' entitled to as little credit as the pro- B o o Kmoter of them. But they found greater caufe for. -r--tanxiety, in the increafing violence of the peftilence, Y.R. 319.attended with other alarming occurrences and pro-B.c'**3.digies; particularly in the accounts which were re­ceived, of many houfes in the country being throwndown by frequent earthquakes. A general fuppli-cation to the gods was therefore performed by thepeople, who repeated it in form after the decemvirs*.The diforder increafing during the following year, Y. R. jio.in which Caius Julius, a fecond time, and LuciusB. c. 43*'Virginius were confuls, occafioned fuch dreadful ap-prehenfions of total defolation, both in the city and *the country, that not only an entire ftop was put topredatory excurfions from the Roman territories, butevery thought of offenfive operations laid afide, bothby patricians and commons. The Fidenatians, whohad at firft fhut themfelves up within their towns orforts, or among the mountains, now ventured tocome down into the lands of the Romans, and com­mit depredations. Then the army of the Veien-tians being called to their aid, (for the Falifcianscould not be prevailed on, either by the calamities ofthe Romans, or the intreaties of their allies, to re­new hoftilities,) the two nations crofled the Anio,and difplayed their enfigns at a little diftance fromthe Colline gate. This occafioned great confterna-tion, as well in the city as in the country. The con-ful Julius drew up the troops on the rampart and thewalls, whilft Virginius held a confultation of the fe-nate in the temple of Quirinus. Here it was re-folved to create dictator Quintus Servilius, to whomfome gave the furname of Prifcus, others that ofStructus. Virginius delayed no longer than till hehad conferred with his colleague, and having, ob- • In the performance of fuch rites, the flighted miftake of a wordor fyllable was deemed highly inaulpicious; to prevent which, theregular form of words was pronounced by a pricft, and repeated afterhim by the peifons cfficiating. B B 4 tained