OCR Output Chap. XII. WARS OF THE JEWS. '283 plot that was laid against him ; accordingly they called to mindwhat orders Cassius had given them, and went out of the citywith their swords in their hands upon the sea-shore, where theyencompassed Malichus round about, and killed him wiih manywounds. Upon which Hyrcanus was immediately affrighted, tillhe swooned away, and fell down at the surprise he was in ; and itwas with difficulty that he was recovered, when he asked xvhoit was that had killed Malichus ? and when one of the tribunesreplied that it was done by the command of Cassias, " Then," said he, Cassius hath saved both me and my country, by cutting" off one that was laying plots against them both." Whether h,espake according to his own sentiments, or whether ITS fear wassuch, that he was obliged to commend the action by saying so,is uncertain ; however, by this method Herod inflicted punish足ment upon Malichus. CHAP. XII. Pbasaelus is too iard for Felix ; Herod also overcomes Antigomnin battle ; and the Jews accuse both Herod and Phasaelus t butAntonius acquits them, and makes them tetrarcis. $ 1. "1X/"HEN Cassius was gone out of Syria, another seditionarose at Jerusalem, wherein Felix assaulted Phasaeluswith an army, that he might revenge the death of Malichus up足on Herod, by falling upon his brother. Now Herod happenedthen to be with Fabius, the governor of Damascus, and as he wasgoing to his brother's assistance, he was detained by sickness j mthe mean time, Phasaelus was by himself too hard for Felix, andreproached Hyrcanus on account of his ingratitude, both for whatassistance he had afforded Malichus, and for overlooking Mali-chus's brother, when he possessed himself of the fortresses; forhe had gotten a great many of them already, and among themthe strongest of them all, Masada. 2. However, nothing could be sufficient for him against theforce of Herod, who, as soon as he was recovered, took theother fortresses again, and drove him out of Masada in the pos足ture of a supplicant; he also drove away Marion, the tyrant ofthe Tyrians, out of Galilee, when he had already possessed him足self of three fortified places; but as to those Tyrians whom hehad caught, he preserved them all alive ; nay, some of them hegave presents to, and so sent them away, and thereby procuredgood-will to himself from the city, and hatred to the tyrant. Ma-lion had indeed obtained that tyrannical power of Cassius, who N n 2 set