OCR Output »0 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. In the very beginning of th'rs work, it is affirmed, thatthe gods exerted their power to presage the future great­ness of this empire. For, though the birds declared,that all the other temples might be deprived of theirsacred honours, they could not be brought to approveof the measure with respect to Terminus. This omenand augury was thus explained, that as Terminus would"not move, and being the only one of all the gods thathad not been moved from their respective stations, theyhad in that circumstance, a sure sign of the permanencyand stability of their empire. This oruen being understood to have a respect to thepermanency, there followed another which portendedits greatness: For, as the story. goes, whilst the masonswere opening the ground for the foundation of the tem­ple, a human head appeared to them, with the face en­tire. This phenomenon, without straining the interpre­tation, plainly presaged, that this temple should be thehead of the empire, and the empire univer.-al. This toowas the opinion of the soothsayers, not only of Rome,but of those also who had been sent for from' Etruria,to be consulted on it. Presages so flattering, could notmiss to enlarge the king's mind with respect to the ex-pence; insomuch that the spoils of Pometia, originallyintended to defray the expence of the whole superstruc­ture, were scarcely sufficient for laying the foundation.—For this reason, I am the more inclinable to believeFabius: besides, that he is the more ancient author, whorestricts the plunder of this city to forty talents, thanPiso, who atfmns that 40,000 pound weight of gold andsilver, had been sequestrated for that purpose; a sumscarcely to be expected from the spoils of any one cityin the world at that time, and more than sufficient forlaying the foundation of any, the most magnificent fabriccf modern times. CHAP. LVI. Sends a colony to Signia and Ceredum. Sends Brutu<ito Delphos. J. ARQUIN being intent upon building the temple;hired architects and skilful workmen from Etrnria;