OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. S47 order has been variously established by convenience chap.or caprice, by the spirit of national institutions, or by XXXVILsome partial example, which was originally decidedby fraud or violence. The jurisprudence of the Ro­mans appears to have deviated from the equality ofnature much less than the Jewish, the Athenian*,or the English institutions. On the death of a citi­zen, all his descendants, unless they were alreadyfreed from his paternal power, were called to the in­heritance of his possessions. The insolent prerogativeof primogeniture was unknown; the two sexes wereplaced on a just level; all the sons and daughterswere entitled to an equal portion of the patrimonialestate: and if any of the sons had been interceptedby a premature death, his person was represented, andhis share was divided, by his surviving children. Onthe failure of the direct line, the right of successionmust diverge to the collateral branches. The de- Civil de­grees of kindred are numbered by the civilians, kindred.ascending from the last possessor to a common parent,and descending from the common parent to the nextheir: my father stands in the first degree, my brotherin the second, his children in the third, and the re­mainder of the series may be conceived by fancy, orpictured in a genealogical table. In this computation,a distinction was made, essential to the laws and eventhe constitution of Rome; the agnats, or personsconnected by a line of males, were called as they stoodin the nearest degree, to an equal partition; but afemale was incapable of transmitting any legal claims;and the cognats of every rank, without excepting thedear relation of a mother and a son, were disinheritedby the twelve tables, as strangers and aliens. Amongthe Romans, a gens or lineage was united by a com- * At Athens the sons were equal, but the poor daughters were endowed at thediscretion of their brothers. See the x\<i?ixu pleadings of Isaeus (in the viithvolume of the Greek Orators), illustrated by the version and comment of SirWilliam Jones, a scholar, a lawyer, and a man of genius. R 4