OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULP1CIAN REVOLUTION. 2G3 diately after countermanding the solemnities, departed forCampania to join his army. To terrify the unarmed consulby bludgeons or the defenceless capital by the swords of thelegions, amounted to the same thing in the end: Sulpiciusexpected that his opponent, now when he could, would re­quite violence with violence and return to the capital at thehead of his legions to overthrow the conservative dema­gogue and his laws along with him. Perhaps he was mis­taken. Sulla was as eager for the war against Mithradatesas he was probably averse to meet the political exhalations ofthe capital; considering his original spirit of indifference andhis unrivalled political nonchalance, there is great proba­bility, that he by no means meditated the coup (Hitat whichSulpicius anticipated, and that, if he had been let alone, hewould have embarked without delay with his troops forAsia so soon as he had captured Nola, with the siege ofwhich he was still occupied. But, be this as it might, Sulpicius, with a view to parry Marius no-the anticipated blow, conceived the scheme of taking the minatedsupreme command from Sulla; and for this purpose joined fommandfi'-with Marius, whose name was still sufficiently popular to gJiia'smake a proposal to transfer to him the chief command in stead.the Asiatic war appear plausible to the multitude, andwhose military position aud ability might prove a supportin the event of a rupture with Sulla. Sulpicius probablydid not overlook the danger involved in placing that old mannot less incapable than vengeful and ambitious at the headof the Campanian army, and as little the scandalous irre­gularity of intrusting an extraordinary supreme commandby decree of the people to a private man; but the very cir­cumstance of Marius' tried incapacity as a statesman gave asort of guarantee that he could not seriously endanger theconstitution, and above all Sulpicius' own position, if heformed a correct estimate of Sulla's designs, was one of soimminent peril that such considerations could hardly belonger heeded. That the worn-out hero himself shouldreadily meet the wishes of any one who would employ himas a condottiere, was a matter of course; his heart had nowfor many years longed for the command in an Asiatic war,and not less perhaps for an opportunity of settling accountsthoroughly with the majority of the senate. Accordinglyon the proposal of Sulpicius Gaius Marius was by decree ofthe people invested with extraordinary supreme, or as it was