OCR Output kxviii NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER1. [33] Muratori (Annali dTtalia, torn. ii.p. 29 V.)thinks the meliingof the snows suits better with themonths of June or July, than with those of February.The opinion of a man who passed his life betweenthe Alps and the Apennines, is undoubtedly of greatweight; yet I observe, 1. That the long winter, ofwhich Muratori takes advantage, is to be foundonly in the Latin version, and not in the Greektevt of Herodian. 2. That the vicissitude of funsand rains, to which the soldiers ofMaximin wereexposed, (Herodian, 1. viii. p. J77 ) denotes thespring rather thtn the summer. We mayobserve like­wise, that these several streams, as they, melted intoone, composed the Timavus, so poetically (in everysense of the word) described by Virgil. They areabout twelve miles to the east of Aquileia. SeeCluver. Italia Antiqua, torn. i. p. 189, &c. [34] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 272. The Celtic deitywas supposed to be Apollo, and received under thatname the thanks of the senate. A temple waslikewise built to Venus the bald, in honour of thewomen of Aquileia, who had given up their hair tomake ropes for the military engines. [35] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 279. Hist. August, p.14/). The duration of iVlaximin's reign has not beendenned with much inaccuracy, except by Eutropius,who allows him three years and a sew days (1. ix.1.); we may depend on the integrity of the text, asthe Latin original is checked with the Greek ver­sion of Pæanius. [36] Eight Roman feet and one third, whichmakes above eight English, as the two measures areto each other in the proportion of 967 to 1000.See Greaves's discourse on the Roman foot. Max»imin could drink in a day an amphora (or aboutseven gallons of wine) and eat thirty or forty poundsof meat. He could move a loaded waggon, breaka horse's leg with his fist, crumble stones in hishand, and tear up small trees by the roots. See hislife in the Augustan History. [38] See the congratulatory letter of ClaudiusJulian us the consul, to the two emperors,.in the Au­gustan History. [38] Hist. August, p. I7». [39] Herodian, 1. viii. p. 258. [40] Herodian, 1, viii. p. 213. [41] The observation had been made imprudently,enough in the acclamations of the senate, and with,the soldiers, it carried the appearance of a wantoninsult. Hist. August, p. 170.. [42] Discordiae tacitae et qua? intelligerenturpotius quam viderentor. Hist. August, p. 170... This well chosen expression is probably stolen fromsome better writer, [43] Herodian, V, viii. p. 287, 288. [44] Quia non alius erat in præsenti, is the ex­pression of the Augustan History . [45] Quintus Curtius (1. x. c. 9.) pays an ele.gant compliment to the emperor of the day, forhaving, by his happy accession, extinguished somany fire-brands, sheathed so many swords, and-put an end to the evil; of a divided government.After weighing with attention every word of thepassage, I am of opinion, that it suits better with,the elevation of Gordian, than with any otherperiod of the Roman History. In that case, it mayserve to decide the age of Quintus Curtius. Those*who place him under the first Cæsars, argue from theparity of his style, but are embarrassed by the silenceof Quintilian, in his accurate list of Roman his­torians. [46] Hist. August; p. 161. From some hints inthe two letters, I should expect that the eunuchswere not expelled the palace, without some degreesof gentle violence, and that young Gordian ratherapproved of, than consented, to, their disgrace. [47] Duxit uxorem filiam Misithei, quern causa;eloquentiæ dignum parentela sua putavit; et præ-sectum- statim fecit; post quod, non puerile jam etcontemptibile videbatur imperinm. [48] Hist. August, p. 162. Aurelius Victor.Porphyrius in Vit. Plotin. ap. Fabricium BibliouGrxc. 1. iv. c. 36. The philosopher Plotinusaccom.panied the army, prompted by the love of knowledge,and by the hope of penetrating as far at India. [49] About twenty, miles from the little town orCircesium, on the frontier of the two empires. [50] The inscription (which contained a verysingular pun) was erased by the order of Liciniuj,who claimed some degree of relationship to Philip (Hist.)