OCR Output 44 [BOOK. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK II. Containing an Interval of 220 Years. FROM THE DEATH OF ISAAC TO THE EXODUS OUT OF EGYPT. CHAP. I. OF THE DIVISION OF HABITATION BY ESAU AND JACOB BYWHICH THE FORMER POSSESSED IDUMEA, AND THE LATTERCANAAN. AFTER the death of Isaac, his sonsdivided their habitations respectively.Nor did they retain what they had before:but Esau departed from the city of Hebron,and left it to his brother, and dwelt in Seir,and ruled over Idumea. He called thecountry by that name from himself; for hewas named Adom, on the following occasion:He once returned from the toil of hunting,very hungry, when he was a child in age,and met with his brother, when he was get足ting ready lentile-pottage for his dinner; itwas of a very red colour, on which accounthe the more earnestly longed for it, and de足sired some of it to eat. But Jacob took ad足vantage of his brother's hunger, and forcedhim to give up his birth-right; and he beingpinched with famine, resigned it up to him,under an oath. Whence it came, that onaccount of the redness of the pottage, he was,in way of jest by his contemporaries, calledAdom; for the Hebrews call what is red,Adom; and this was the name given to thiscountry. But the Greeks gave it a moreagreeable pronunciation, and named it Idu足mea. He became the father of five sons, of whomJaus, Jolomus, and Coreus were by one wife,whose name was Alibama; but of the restAliphaz was born to him by Ada, and Raguel by Basemath: and these were the sons ofEsau. Aliphaz had five legitimate sons;Theman, Homer, Sapphus, Gotham, and Ka-naz: for Amalek was not legitimate, but by aconcubine, whose name was Thamna. Thesedwelt in that part of Idumea which wascalled Gebelatis, and that denominated fromAmalek, Amalekites; for Idumea was a largecountry, and preserved the name of thewhole: while in its several parts it kept thenames of its peculiar inhabitants. CHAP. II. OF JOSEPH, THE YOUNGEST OF JACOB'S SONS, AND THE ENVYOF HIS BRETHREN. IT happened that Jacob attained so great'happiness as rarely any other person hasarrived at; he was richer than the rest of theinhabitants of that country, and was at onceenvied and admired for such virtuous sons;for they were deficient in nothing, but wereof great strength, both for labouring with theirhands, and enduring of toil, and shrewd alsoin understanding. And God exercised sucha providence over him, and such a care ofhis happiness, as to bring him the greatestblessings, even out of what appeared to bethe most sorrowful condition: and to makehim the cause of our forefathers' departureout of Egypt; him, I say, and his posterity.The occasion was this: when Jacob had thisson Joseph born to him by Rachel, his fatherloved him above the rest of his sons, bothbecause of the beauty of his body, and thevirtues of his mind; for he excelled the rest