OCR Output 380 THE DECLINE AND PALL crated to the important service. In the vicissitudes of war, the interior provincefhad been alternately won and lost by the Saracens. But the sea-coast still re*mained in the hands of the Greeks; the predecessors of Hassan, had respected thename and fortifications of Carthage; and the number of its defenders was recruitedby the fugitives of Cabes and Tripoli. The arms of Hassan were bolder and morefortunate; he reduced and pillaged the metropolis of Africa; and the mention ofscaling-ladders may justify the suspicion that he anticipated, by a sudden assault,the more tedious operations of a regular siege. But the joy of the conquerors wassoon disturbed by the appearance of the Christian succours. The prefect and pa­trician John, a general of experience and renown, embarked at Constantinople theforces of the eastern empire;(l) they were joined by the ships and soldiers of Si­cily, and a powerful re-enforcement of Goths(2) was obtained from the fears andreligion of the Spanish monarch. The weight of the confederate navy broke thechain that guarded the entrance of the harbour; the Arabs retired to Cairoan, orTripoli; the Christians landed; the citizens hailed the ensign of the cross, and thewinter was idly wasted in the dream of victory or deliverance. But Africa wasirrecoverably lost; the zeal and resentment of the commander of the faithful(3)prepared in the ensuing spring a more numerous armament by sea and land; andtlie patrician in his turn was compelled to evacuate the post and fortifications ofCarthage. A second battle was fought in the neighbourhood of Utica: the Greeksand Goths were again defeated; and their timely embarkation saved them fromthe sword of Hassan, who had invested the slight and insufficient rampart of theircamp. Whatever yet remained of Carthage, was delivered to the flames, and thecolony of Dido(4) and C:esar lay desolate above two hundred years, till a part,perhaps a twentieth, of the old circumference was repeopled by the first of theFatimite caliphs. In the beginning of the sixteenth century, the second capital ofthe west was represented by a mosch, a college without students, twenty-five orthirty shops, and the huts of five hundred peasants, who, in their abject poverty,displayed the arrogance of the Punic senators. Even that paltry village was sweptaway by the Spaniards whom Charles V. had stationed in the fortress of the Go-letta. The ruins of Carthage have perished; and the place might be unknown, ifsome broken arches of an aqueduct did not guide the footsteps of the inquisitivetraveller. (5) The Greeks were expelled, but the Arabians were not yet masters of the coun­try. In the interior provinces of the Moors or Berbers,{&) so feeble under thefirst Csesars, so formidable to the Byzantine princes, maintained a disorderly re­sistance to the religion and power of the successors of Mahomet. Under the stand­ard of their queen Cahina, the independent tribes acquired some degree of unionand discipline; and as the Moors respected in their females the character of a (1) Ai9tri9; . . . xxxvrx T* 'P-j^ixa *Sid^ifi jrXoi/ui, ffYAarayw « ijr' auTOi; IwsevKi rov rTxTPixior, fjuyf ifov rutstoaijmmv, ff-poxMpOTqviMs wfJ." Kxf^ovx «t» Tu"> ii*p«Ki;vwv »Ei;ri/*'vJv. Nieephori Constantinopolitani Breviar.p. 28. The patriarch of Constantinople, with Thcophanes, (Chronograph, p. 309.) have slightly mentioned thislast attempt for the relief of Africa. Pagi (Critica, torn. iii. p. 129. 141.) has nicely ascertained the chronologyby a strict comparison of the Arabic and Byzantine historians, who often disagree both in time and fact. Seclikewise a note of Otter, (p. 121.) , (2) Dove's erano ridoni i nt.bili Romani e i Gotti; and afterward, i Romani suggirono e i Gotti lasciarono Car-tlmgine. (Leo African, fol. 72. recto.) I know not from what Arabic writer the African derived his Goths: butthe faet, though new, is so interesting and so probable, that I will accept it on the slightest authority. (3) This con>mander is styled by Nicephorus, Bxrit.tu; ixpctxuvwv, a vague though not improper definition,of the caliph. Theophanes introduces the strange appellation of nforotm/ifloxoc, which his interpreter Goarexplains by V'zir Axtn. They may approach the truth, in assigning the active part of the minister, ratherthan the prince-, l,ut they forgot that the Omtniades had only o Aaree, or secretary, and that the office of vi­zier wns not revived or instituted till the one hundred and thirty-second ytar of the Hegira. (D'Herbelot,p. 912.) (4) According to Solinut, (lih. 27. p. 3fi. edit. Salmas.) the Carthage of Dido stood either six hundred and se­venty-seven or seven hundrtd and thirty-seven years; a various reading, which proceeds from the difference ofMSS. or editions. (Salinas. Plinian. Exercil. torn. i. 228.) The former of these accounts, which gives eighthundred and twenty-three years hefore Christ, is more consistent with the well-weighed testimony of VelleiusPatercilus; but the latter is preferred l>y our clironologisls, (Marsham. Canon. Chrou. p. 398.) as more agreea­ble to the Hebrew and I'yrian annals. (5) Leo African, fol. 71. verse, 72. recto. M«rn,ol, torn. ii. p. 445—447. Shaw. p. 80. (6) The history of the word Barbar may be classed under four periods.—1. in the time of Homer, when theGreeks and Asiatics might probably use a common idiom, the imitative sound of Barbar was applied to theruder tribes, whose pronunciation was most harsh, whose grammar was most defective. Kapj; Bapfifiefoewc.(Iliad 2. 867. with the Oxford Scholiast, Clarke's Annotation, and Henry Stephen's Greek Thesaurus, torn. i. p.720.) 2. From the time, at least, of Herodotus, it was extended to all the nations who were stranger* to thelanguage and manners of the Greeks. 3. In the age of Plautus, the Romans submitted to the insult, (PompeiusFestus, lib. ii. p. 48. edit. Dacier,)and freely gave themselves the name of barbarians. They insensibly claimedan exemption for Italy, and her subject provinces; and at length removed the disgraceful appellation to the sa­vage or hostile nations beyond the pale of the empire. 4. In every sense it was due to the Moors; the familiar-word was borrowed from the Latin Provincials by the Arabian conquerors, and has justly settled at a local de­nomination (Barbary) along the northern coast of Africa.