OCR Output an. 906.] 311 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Ahab, according to God's will, to inform himthat rain was coming. Now the famine hadseized upon the whole country; and therewas a great want of what was necessary forsustenance; insomuch that it was not onlymen that wanted it, but the earth itself also;which did not produce enough for the horses,and the other beasts, of what was useful forthem to feed on, by reason of the drought.So the king called for Obadiah,* who wassteward over his cattle, and said to him, thathe would have him go to the fountains ofwater, and to the brooks; that if any her­bage could be found for them he might mowit down, and reserve it for the beasts. Andwhen he had sent persons all over the thabi-table earth to discover the prophet Elijah,and they could not find him, he bade Oba­diah accompany him. So it was resolvedthey should make a progress, and dividethe ways between them; and Obadiah andthe king went the one way, and the otheranother. Now it had happened, that at thesame time when Queen Jezebel slew theprophets, that this Obadiah had concealed ahundred prophets, and had fed them withbread and water.J But when Obadiah wasalone, and absent from the king, the prophetElijah met him, and asked him who he was?And when he had learned it from him, heworshipped him. Elijah then bade him goto the king, and tell him, that he was readyto wait on him. But Obadiah replied, "Whatevil have I done to thee, that thou sendestme to one who seeketh to kill thee; and hathsought over all the earth for thee? Or artthou so ignorant as not to know, that theking hath left no place untouched, into whichhe hath not sent persons to bring thee back,in order if they could take thee, to have putthee to death?" He also acknowledged hewas afraid lest God should appear to himagain, and he should go away into another place; and that when the king should sendhim for Elijah, and he should not be able tofind him, he should be put to death. He de­sired him, therefore, to take care of his pre­servation, and told him how diligently hehad provided for those of his own profession,and had saved a hundred prophets, whenJezebel slew the rest of them, and had keptthem concealed; and that they had beensustained by him. But Elijah bade him fearnothing, but go to the king, assuring him uponoath, that he would certainly shew himselfto Ahab that very day. So when Obadiah had informed the kingthat Elijah was there, Ahab met him, andasked him in anger, "Tf he were the man thatafflicted the people of the Hebrews, and wasthe occasion of the drought that they layunder?" but Elijah, without any flattery,said, that Ahab was himself the man, and hishouse, which brought such sad afflictionsupon them; and that by introducing strangegods into their country, and worshippingthem; and by leaving their own, who was theonly true God; and naving no manner of re­gard to him. However, he bade him go hisway, and gather together all the people toMount Carmel, with his own prophets andthose of his wife; telling him how many therewere of them; as also the prophets of thegroves, about four hundred in number. Andas all the men whom Ahab sent for ran awayto the aforenamed mountain, the prophetElijah stood in the midst of them, and said:"How long will ye live thus in uncertainty ofmind and opinion?" he also exhorted them,that in case they esteemed their own God tobe the true and the only Deity, they wouldfollow him and his commandments; but incase they esteemed him to be nothing, buthad an opinion of the strange gods, and thatthey ought to worship them, his counsel wasthat they should follow them. And when * There are some Jewish doctors who think that thisObadiah was the same with him whose writings we haveamong the twelve minor prophets. They pretend that hewas married to that woman of Shunem, where Elisha usedto lodge; that he was a disciple of the prophet Elijah, andthe last of the three captains whom king Ahnziah sent toapprehend him; and that for this reason he had compas­sion on hira, though he had destroyed the others that camebefore him, with fire from heaven, 2 Kings i. 9. &c. butall these things are pure apocrypha. Obadiah himself, inhis discourse with Elijah, sufficiently tells us who he was,viz. a person truly religious, who worshipped God alone, had a singular affection for his servants; enough, onewould think, to have made Ahab discard, if not persecutehim, had he not found him so highly useful in the manage­ment of his domestic affairs, as to connive at his not wor­shipping Baal, or the calves; especially as we read nothingof his going up to Jerusalem, which was a defect that Godmight perhaps think proper to dispense with. Calmet'sand Patrick's Commentaries. B. t Josephus here seems to mean, that this droughtaffected all the habitable earth. 1 t Kings xviii. 4.