OCR Output C. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 109 such an unexpected attempt of theirs, especially as the greaterpart of them were unarmed and unskilled in affairs of war ;and that besides the multitude of the citizens would not beeasily gathered together, but confined to their houses by thestorm; and that if there were any hazard in their under­taking, it became them to suffer any thing whatsoever them­selves, rather than to overlook so great a multitude as weremiserably perishing on their account. But the more prudentpart of them disapproved of this forcible method, becausethey saw not only the guards about them very numerous, butthe walls of the city itself carefully watched, by reason ofthe Idumeans. They also supposed that Ananus would beevery where, and visit the guards every hour; which, indeed,was done upon other nights, but was omitted that night, notby reason of any slothfulness of Ananus, but by the over­bearing appointment of fate, that so both he might himselfperish, and the multitude of the guards might perish withhim; for truly as the night was far gone, and the storm veryterrible, Ananus gave the guards in the cloisters leave to goto sleep ; while it came into the heads of the zealots to makeuse of the saws belonging to the temple, and to cut the barsof the gates to pieces. The noise of the wind, and that notinferior sound of the thunder, did here also conspire with theirdesigns, that the noise of the saws was not heard by theothers. 7. So they secretly went out of the temple to the wall ofthe city, and made use of their saws, and opened that gatewhich was over against the Idumeans. Now at first therecame a fear upon the Idumeans themselves which disturbedthem, as imagining that Ananus and his party were comingto attack them, so that every one of them had his right handupon his sword, in order to defend himself; but they sooncame to know who they were that came to them, and wereentered the city. And had the Idumeans then fallen uponthe city, nothing could have hindered them from destroyingthe people every man of them, such was the rage they werein at that time: but as they first of all made haste to get thezealots out of custody, which those that brought them inIV. —10