OCR Output NABATAEL NABATAEL 393 a apuntf. Tbey were the friends and allies ofli Jen in their struggle for independence; forrto kin Utccibaeu-s, with his brother Jonathan,W lima 3 din S. of the Jordan (cir. B. c. 164),in moved him amicably, and pave him informa-in rttch led to the deliverance of the oppressedJrti nGiletd from the Ammonites, under Timo-tm (J.stpb. Ant. xii. 8. § 3; 1 Maccab. v. 24,k.); ml *b(n preparing for an engagement withbcttta (cir. B.C. 161), the same Jonathan pro-pal to (dire all their moveable property in theirWait. (lb. liii. 1. § 2; 1 Maccab. ix. 33.) Hut4»a.-6at ud fullest notice of this people and ofirietuuT occurs in Diodorus Siculus, who men-Ui tirnn frequently. In n. c. 312, Antigonns,I avo| recovered Syria and Palestine out of the> faii frWemy, resolved on an expedition againstSilsaa, ind detached his general Athenaeus ■ nrrkr, with 4000 light-armed troops andft> <4t cavalry. The manners of these Arabs I aid uW country is described by the historian ini «*> nenection. They inhabited tents in a vastfar! tract, which offered neither streams norI Lu-. to u invading army. Their institutions, ■ looted by him, bear a striking resemblance tofat «f tie Rccuabites in ever)' particular, "toboi to vine, nor to build houses, nor to have vine- • •» 6dd, nor seed, but to dwell in tents."'. urr. 6—11.) Diodorus mentions that the of any of these customs was a capitalTkeir occupations were chiefly pastoral;; camels and others sheep in muchthan the other Arabs, althoughr did not exceed 10,000; but they alsoI of the aromatic drugs of Arabiai, »b*a were discharged at their great mart at\ tad by tbem transported to the Mcditer-l * Buoocorura. The love of liberty was a • *uh them; and their custom, when attackedr powerful enemy, was to retire to the wil- "e invaders could not follow themThey themselves had providedi vast subterranean reservoirs ofI dor in the clayey soil, or excavated inand plastered, with very narrow■it'll could be easily stopped and con-I sural, but which were marked by indi-only to themselves,—but graduallyI they attained the dimensions of 100They lived on tiesh and milk, and onproduce of the country, such as•riM honey, which they drank mixed'There was an annual fair held in theirr.to which the bulk of the males used to'fa purposes of traffic, leaving their flocksaged men, and the women and■ at rVtra, naturally a very strong place,* d, two days distant from the inha-Athenaeus took advantage of the< sf the Xabataeans at the fair, to attack: a forced march of 3 days and 3the eparchy of Idumaea, a distance of, at assaulted the city about midnight,sad wounded many of its inhabitants,I off an immense booty in spicery and[ftTiu.] On his retreat, however, hei by the KaLataei, and all his forcesi with the exception of 50 horsemen,i Antigonus sent another expedi-I the command of Demetrius; and Demetrius was glad to withdraw his army on receiving suchgifts as were most esteemed among them. (Died,xix. 44—48, comp. ii. 48.) In the geographicalsection of his work the author places them on theLaianites Sinus, a bay of tiie Aelanitic gulf, and de­scribes them as possessing many villages, both onthe coast and in the interior. Their country wasmost populous, and incredibly rich in cattle; buttheir national character had degenerated when hewrote (cir. B. c. 8). They had formerly lived ho­nestly, content with the means of livelihoodwhich their flocks supplied; but from the time thatthe kings of Alexandria had rendered the gulf navi­gable for merchant vessels, they not only practisedviolence as wreckers, but made piratical attacksfrom their coasts on the merchantmen in the passagothrough the gulf, imitating in ferocity and lawless­ness the Tauri in Pontus. Ships of war were sentagainst them, and the pirates were captured andpunished. (Ib. iii. 42, comp. Strabo, xvi. p. 777.)The decrease of their transport trade and profits, bythe new channel opened through Egypt, was doubt­less the real cause of this degeneracy. The trade,however, was not entirely diverted; later writersstill mention Petra of the Kabataei as the great en­trepot of the Arabian commerce (Arrian, Piriplits,p. 11, ap. Hudson, vol. i.), both of the Gerrhaeiof the west, and of the Minaei of the south of thatpeninsula. (Strabo, xvi. p. 776.) The account givenby Strabo agrees in its main features with the earlierrecord of Diodorus Siculus; and he records at lengththe deception practised on his friend Aelius Gallusby Syllaeus, the procurator (eVfrpoirov) of the Na-bataci, under the king Obodas; a false friend of thoHomans, through whose territory he first led themon leaving Leuce Come, where they had landed.The policy of Syllaeus illustrates the remark ofStrabo (xvi. p. 783), that the Nabataeans arc prudentand acquisitive; so much so, that those who wastedtheir property were punished, and those who in­creased it rewarded by the state. They had fewslaves among them; so they cither waited on them­selves, or practised mutual servitude in families,even in the royal family. They were much ad­dicted to feasting, and their domestic mannersmarked considerable progress in luxury and refine­ment, from the rude simplicity of the primitive timesdescribed by the more ancient author (p. 783,seq.). He mentions that they were fire-worship­pers, and sacrificed daily to the sun on theirhouse-tops Their government may be styled alimited monarchy, as the king was subject to bepublicly called to account, and to have to defendhimself before the people. Their cities were un-walled, and their country fruitful in everythingbut the olive. The limits of their country are notclearly defined; Strabo places them above thoSyrians, with the Sabaei, in Arabia Felix (xvi. p.779); but this must be a corrupt reading, and is in­consistent with his other notices of them. Thus hespeaks of the promontory near Seal Island — thepeninsula of Mount Sinai — as extending to Petraof the Arabs called Nabataei (p. 776), which bedescribes as situated in a desert region, particularlytowards Judaea, and only three or four days'journey from Jericho (p. 779). The approach toEgypt from the east, towards Phoenice and Judaea,was difficult by way of Pelusium, but fromArabia Nabataea it was easy. All these andsimilar notices serve to show that, from the age ofAntigonus to this period, the Nabataei had in- ♦