OCR Output 124 VESPASIAN TAKES GADABA. [b. IV. thus did they fall upon the holy places' and the cities; yetdid it now so happen that they were sometimes very illtreated by those upon whom they fell with such violence, andwere taken by them as men are taken in war: but still theyprevented any farther punishment, as do robbers, who, assoon as their ravages [are discovered,] run their way. Norwas there now any part of Judea that was not in a miserablecondition, as well as its most eminent city also. 3. These things were told Vespasian by deserters: foralthough the seditious watched all the passages out of thecity, and destroyed all, whosoever they were, that camethither, yet were there some that had concealed themselves;and when they had fled to the Romans, persuaded theirgeneral to come to the city's assistance, and save the re­mainder of the people; informing him withal, that it wasupon account of the people's good-will to the Romans thatmany of them were already slain, and the survivors in dangerof the same treatment. Vespasian did, indeed, already pitythe calamities these men were in, and arose, in appearance,as though he was going to besiege Jerusalem, but in realityto deliver them from a [worse] siege they were alreadyunder. However, he was obliged first to overthrow whatremained elsewhere, and to leave nothing out of Jerusalembehind him that might interrupt him in that siege. Accord­ingly, he marched against Gadara, the metropolis of Perea,which was a place of strength, and entered that city on thefourth day of the month Dystrus [Adar;] for the men ofpower had sent an embassage to him, without the knowledgeof the seditious, to treat about a surrender ; which they didout of the desire they had of peace, and for saving theireffects, because many of the citizens of Gadara were rich 1 13y this ii(io or holy places, as distinct from cities, must bo meant pro-seischtz or houses of prayer, out of cities; of which we find mention made inthe New Testament and other authors. See Luke, vi. 12; Acts, xvi. 13,10; Antiq. B. xiv. eh. x. sect. 23; his Life, sect. 61. In qua Is quero pro-seucha ? Juvenal, Sat. iii. ver. 296. They were situated sometimes by thosides of rivers, Acts, xvi. 13, or by tho sea-side, Antiq. B. xiv. ch. x. sect.23. So did the seventy-two interpreters go to prayer every morning by thesea-side, before they went to their work, B. xii. ch. ii. sect. 12.