OCR Output 106 [A. U. C. 770. THE ANNALS XLIII. This state of affairs, and the commotions inArmenia, which have been already mentioned, Tibe­rius laid before the senate. His conclusion was, thatto settle the troubles of the east, recourse must be hadto the wisdom of Germanicus. As to himself, he wasnow in the vale of years, and Dnisus had neither ma­turity of age nor experience. The provinces beyondthe Mediterranean were, by a decree of the senate,committed to Germanicus. He was made commander^in chief, with supreme authority, wherever he went,over all other governors, whether appointed by lot,or the will of the prince. At that time Creticus Silanuswas the governor of Syria. Ho had promised hisdaughter in marriage to Nero, the eldest son of Ger­manicus. For that reason Tiberius recalled him fromthe province, and in his place appointed Cneius Piso,a man of violent passions, impatient of control, andfierce with all the spirit of his father, that famous re­publican, who in the civil wars took up arms, againstJulius Csesar, and rekindled the flame in Africa.After that exploit he followed the fortunes of Bru­tus and Cassius. Being at length restored to hiicountry, he disdained all public offices, till Augustusprevailed upon him to accept of the consulship. Tothe pride derived from such a father, the son unitedthe insolence of wealth, acquired by his marriage withPlancina, who, besides her high descent, possessedimmoderate riches. Proud of that connexion, Pisothought himself scarcely second to Tiberius. Theemperor's sons were beneath his rank. The govern­ment of Syria, he made no'doubt, was given to him,as a bar to the hopes of Germanicus. For this pur­pose secret instructions were at the time said to havebeen given to him by Tiberius. Plancina, it is certain,had her lesson from Livia, with full instruction, tomortify the pride of Agrippina with all the arts of fe­male emulation. The court of Tiberius, divided between Drusus andGermanicus, was a scene of domestic faction. Theemperor, as was natural, gave the preference to hisown immediate issue; but the preference had no othereffect than that of attaching the friends of Germani­