OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Parthian and Babylonian leather, cottons, silks, both raw and manu­factured, ebony, ivory, and eunuchs ,co. We may observe that theuse and value of those effeminate slaves gradually rose with thedecline of the empire.The excise. TC. The excise, introduced by Augustus after the civil wars, wasextremely moderate, but it was general. It seldom exceeded oneper cent.; but it comprehended whatever was fold in the marketsor by public auction, from the most considerable purchases of landsand houses, to those minute objects which can only derive a valuefrom their infinite multitude and daily consumption. Such a tax,as it affects the body of the people, has ever been the occasion ofclamour and discontent. An emperor well acquainted with thewants and resources of the state, was obliged to declare by a publicedict, that the support of the army depended in a great measure onthe produce of the exciseTax on lega- III. When Augustus resolved to establish a permanent militaryriuncei nhe" force for the defence of his government against foreign and domesticenemies, he instituted a peculiar treasury for the pay of the soldiers,the rewards of the veterans, and the extraordinary expences ofwar. The ample revenue of the excise, though peculiarly appro­priated to those uses, was found inadequate. To supply the defi­ciency, the emperor suggested a new tax of five per cent, on alllegacies and inheritances. But the noble6 of Rome were more tena­cious of property than of freedom. Their indignant murmurs werereceived by Augustus with his usual temper. He candidly referredthe whole business to the senate, and exhorted them to provide forthe public service by some other expedient of a less odious nature.They were divided and perplexed. He insinuated to them, thattheir obstinacy would oblige him to propose a general land-tax andcapitation. They acquiesced in silence "\ The new imposition onlegacies and inheritances, was however mitigated by some restric­tions. It did not take place unless the object was of a certain value, most