OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 91 fidelity of Gubazes sustained the most rigorous trials. He patiently endured theHardships of a savage life, and rejected with disdain the specious temptations ofthe Persian court. The king of the Lazi had been educated in the Christian reli­gion; his mother was the daughter of a senator; during his youth he had served tenyears a silentiary of the Byzantine palace,(l) and the arrears of an unpaid salarywere a motive of attachment as well as of complaint. But the long continuanceof his sufferings extorted from him a naked representation of the truth; and truthwas an unpardonable libel on the lieutenants of Justinian, who, amidst the delaysof a ruinous war, had spared his enemies, and trampled on his allies. Their ma­licious information persuaded the emperor, that his faithless vassal already medi­tated a second defection: an order was issued to send him prisoner to Constantino­ple; a treacherous clause was inserted, that he might be lawfully killed in case ofresistance; and Gubazes, without arms, or suspicion of danger, was stabbed in thesecurity of a friendly interview. In the first moments of rage and despair, the Col-chians would have sacrificed their country and religion to the gratification of re­venge. But the authority and eloquence of the wiser few, obtained a salutary pause:the victory of the Phasis restored the terror of the Roman arms, and the emperorwas solicitous to absolve his own name from the imputation of so foul a murder.A judge of senatorial rank was commissioned to inquire into the conduct anddeath of the king of the Lazi. He ascended a stately tribunal, encompassed bythe ministers of justice and punishment: in the presence of both nations, this extra­ordinary cause was pleaded, according to the forms of civil jurisprudence, and somesatisfaction was granted to an injured people, by the sentence and execution of themeaner criminals. (2) In peace, the king of Persia continually sought the pretences of a rupture; butno sooner had he taken up arms, than he expressed his desire of a sate and ho­nourable treaty. During the fiercest hostilities, the two monarchs entertained adeceitful negotiation; and such was the superiority of Chosroes, that whilst hetreated the Roman ministers with insolence and contempt, he obtained the mostunprecedented honours for his own ambassadors at the imperial court. The suc­cessor of Cyrus assumed the majesty of the eastern sun, and graciously permittedhis younger brother Justinian to reign over the west, with the pale and reflectedsplendour of the moon. This gigantic style was supported by the pomp and elo­quence of Isdigune, One of the royal chamberlains. His wife and daughters, witha train of eunuchs and camels, attended the march of the ambassador; two satrapswith golden diadems were numbered among his followers: he was guarded by fivehundred horse, the most valiant of the Persians; and the Roman governor of Darawisely refused to admit more than twenty of this martial and hostile caravan. WhenIsdigune had saluted the emperor, and delivered his presents, he passed ten monthsat Constantinople without discussing any serious affairs. Instead of being confinedto his palace, and receiving food and water from the hands of his keepers, the Per­sian ambassador, without spies or guards, was allowed to visit the capital; and thefreedom of conversation and trade enjoyed by his domestics offended the preju­dices of an age, which rigorously practised the law of nations, without confidenceor courtesy. (3) By an unexampled indulgence, his interpreter, a servant belowthe notice of a Roman magistrate, was seated, at the table of Justinian, by the sideof his master; and one thousand pounds of gold might be assigned for the ex­pense of his journey and entertainment. Yet the repeated labours of Isdigunecould procure only a partial and imperfect truce, which was always purchased withthe treasures, and renewed at the solicitation, of the Byzantine court Manyyears of fruitless desolation elapsed before Justinian and Chosroes were compelled,by mutual lassitude, to consult the repose of their declining age. At a confe­rence held on the frontier, each party, without expecting to gain credit, displayedthe power, the justice, and the pacific intentions of their respective sovereigns;but necessity and interest dictated the treaty of peace, which vms concluded for aterm of fifty years, diligently composed in the Greek and Persian languages, and (1) In the palace of Constantinople there were thirty silentiariei, who are styled hastati ante forts cubiculi,t»k rjyw *»-*TT«T»i, an honourable title, which conferred the rank, without imposing; thedutiei of a lenator(Cod. Theodos. lib. vi. tit. 23. Gothufred. Comment, torn. ii. p. 120.) .... ^. (I) Oo these judicial orations, Asrathias (lib. iii. p. 81—89. lib. iv. p. 108—119.) lavishes eighteen or twentypages of false and florid rhetoric. His ignorance or carelessness overlooks the strongest argument against theking t" " Lazica—his former revolt. . . - — nth. lib. i. c 7.:) and foreign ambas-(Busbequius, epist. iii. p. 149. MM -Bell's Travels, vol. ii. p. IWsrflJ.O f3} Procopius represents the practice of the Gothic court of Havenna (Gothaadors have been treated with the same jealousy and rigour in Turkey (nfcc.,) Russia (Voyage d'Olearias, and China (Narrative of M. de Lange, in 1