OCR Output 382 THE DECLINE AND FALL was Frequently honoured with the residence of Tiridates, and ask sometimes bore the name of Ecbatana, he imitated, in the build-Iberia, fogs and fortifications, the splendid capital of the Mcdes 8\ IV. Thecountry of Iberia was barren, its inhabitants rude and savage. Butthey were accustomed to the use of arms,, and they separated fromthe empire barbarians much fiercer and more formidable thanthemselves. The narrow defiles of Mount Caucasus were in theirhands, and it was in their choice, either to admit or to excludethe wandering tribes of Sarmatia, whenever a rapacious spiriturged them to penetrate into the richer climates of the South 8?.The nomination of the kings of Iberia, which was resigned bythe Persian monarch to the emperors, contributed to the strengthand security of the Roman power in Asia 8*. The East enjoyeda profound tranquillity during forty years; and the treaty be­tween the rival monarchies was strictly observed, till the death ofTiridates; when a new generation, animated with different viewsand different passions, succeeded to the government of the world jand the grandson of Narses undertook a long and memorable waragainst the princes of the house of Corrstantine.Triumph of The arduous work of rescuing the distressed empire from tyrants Diocletian . _' and Maxi- and barbarians had now been completely atchieved by a successionA*D. 303. of Illyrian peasants. As soon as Diocletian entered into the twentiethyear of his reign, he celebrated that memorable -aera, as well as thesuccess of his arms, by the pomp of a Roman triumph 8$. Maxi-mian, the equal partner of his power, was his only companion inthe glory of that day. The two Cæsars had fought and con­quered, but the merit of their exploits was ascribod, according to therigour of ancient maxims, to the auspicious influence of their fathersand emperors The triumph of Diocletian and Maximian wasless magnificent perhaps than those of Aurelian and Probus, but itwas dignified by several circumstances of superior fame and goodfortune. Africa and Britain, the Rhine, the Danube, and the Nile,furnistied their respective trophies; but the most distinguished ornament mian.A..DNovember 20.