OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [eHAP. XXXIX. the throne of his son, humbly received, as a gift, the se­cond rank in the empire, and soon excited the publicsuspicion on the sudden and premature death of hisyoung colleague, whose life could no longer promote thesuccess of his ambition. But the palace of Constanti­nople was ruled by female influence, and agitated by fe­male passions: and Verina, the widow of Leo, claiminghis empire as her own, pronounced a sentence of deposi­tion against the worthless and ungrateful servant onwhom she alone had bestowed the sceptre of the east.'As soon as she sounded a revolt in the ears of Zeno, hefled with precipitation into the mountains of Isauria,and her brother Basiliscus, already infamous by his Afri­can expedition,* was unanimously proclaimed by the ser­vile senate. But the reign of the usurper was short andturbulent. Basiliscus presumed to assassinate the loverof his sister; he dared to offend the lover of his wife,the vain and insolent Harmatius, who, in the midst ofAsiatic luxury, affected the dress, the demeanour, and thesurname, of Achilles.11 By the conspiracy of the male-contents, Zeno was recalled from exile; the armies, thecapital, the person, of Basiliscus, were betrayed; and hiswhole family was condemned to the long agony of coldand hunger by the inhuman conqueror, who wantedcourage to encounter or to forgive his enemies. Thehaughty spirit of Verina was still incapable of submissionor repose. She provoked the enmity of afavourite general,embraced his cause as soon as he was disgraced, createda new emperor in Syria and Egypt, raised an army of se­venty thousand men, and persisted to the last momentof her life in a fruitless rebellion, which, according to thefashion of the age, had been predicted by Christian her­mits and Pagan magicians. While the east was afflictedby the passions of Verina, her daughter Ariadne was 'Thenphanes (p. 111.) inserts a copy of her tarred letters to the provinces: nf in (Zeta-iXtuv njuErfgw tn • . . xiti oti vr^o^ti^ia-jtfxtBa. £acriXEe t Tgae-itaXMraKV, &C. Suchfemale pretensions would have astonished the slaves of the JirU Caesars.* Vol. 4. c. 36. k Suidas, tom. 1. p. 333, 333. edit. Kuster. . .