OCR Output 406 NAXUANA NAXOS. aristocratical party appear to have again got theupper hand; but they were after a short time ex­pelled by the people, and applied for assistance toAristagoras of Miletus. The Persians, at the per-suasion of Aristagoras, sent a large force in B. c.501 to subdue Naxos: the expedition proved a fail­ure; and Aristagoras, fearing the anger of the Per­sian court, persuaded the Iouians to revolt from thegreat king. (Herod, v. 30—34.) At this periodthe N ixians had 8000 hoplites, many ships of war,and numerous slaves. (Herod, v. 30, 31.) Fromthe 8000 hoplites we may conclude that the freepopulation amounted to 50,000 souls, to which num­ber we may add at least as many slaves. In n. c.490 the Persians under Datis and Artaphernes landedupon the island, and in revenge for their formerfailure laid it waste with fire and sword. Most ofthe inhabitants took refuge in the mountains, butthose who remained were reduced to slavery, and theircity set on fire. (Herod, vi. 96.) Naxos became adependency of Persia; but their four ships, whichwere sent to the Persian fleet, deserted the latter andfought on the side of Grecian independence at thebattle of Salamis. (Herod, viii. 4,6.) They alsotook part in the battle of Plalaeae. (Diod. v. 52.)After the Persian wars Naxos became a member ofthe confederacy of Delos under the headship ofAthens; but about B.C. 471 it revolted, and wassubdued by the Athenians, who reduced the Naxiansto the condition of subjects, and established 500Athenian Cleruclis in the island. (Time. i. 98, 137;Plut. Veriel 11; Paus. i. 27. § 6.) From thistime Naxos is seldom mentioned in ancient history.It was off Naxos that Chabrias gained a signal victoryover the Lacedaemonian fleet in b. c. 376, whichrestored to Athens the empire of the sea. (Xen.Hell. v. 4. § 60, seq.; Diod. xv. 34.) During thecivil wars of Rome Naxos was for a short time sub*ject to the Rhodians. (Appian, B. C. v. 7.) After the capture of Constantinople by the Latinsin 1204, the Aegaean sea fell to the lot of the Vene­tians; and Marco Sanudo, in 1207, took possessionof Naxos, and founded there a powerful state underthe title of the Duchy of the Aegaean Sea (DuxAegaei Pclagi). He built the large castle above thetown, now in ruins, and fortified it with 12 towers.His dynasty ruled over the greater part of the Cy-clades for 360 years, and was at length overthrownby the Turks in 1566. (Finlay, Medieval Great,p. 320, seq.) Naxos now belongs to the new king­dom of Greece. Its population does not exceed12,000, and of these 300 or 400 are Latins, the de­scendant* of the Venetian settlers, many of whombear the names of the noblest families of Venice. The ancient capital of the island, also calledNaxos, was situated upon the NW. coast. Its siteis occupied by the modem capital On a small de­tached rock, called Paliti, about 50 yards in frontof the liarbour, are the ruins of a temple, which tra­dition calls a temple of Dionysus. The westernporta] still remains, consisting of three huge marbleslabs, two perpendicular and one laid across, and isof elegant, though simple workmanship. A drawingof it is given by Tournefort. Stcphanus B. men­tions another town in Naxos called Tragia or Tra-gaea («. v. Tpoyfa), but which lioss believes to bethe small island Mdiaret, between Naxos and Do-nussa. Aristotle also (an. A then. viii. p. 348) men­tioned a place, named Lestadae (Ai)OTcioai), of whichnothing further is known. In the centre of the island a mountain, now called y.in. rises to the height of 3000 feet From insummit 22 islands may be counted; and in the dis­tance may be seen the outline of the mountains ofAsia Minor. This mountain appears to have bencalled l)iiu» (Ap(or) in antiquity (Diod. r. 51); hamodern name is probably derived from the aniieatname of the island (Dia). On it there is a curiousHellenic tower; and near the bottom, on the naatowards Philoti, an inscription, Zpot Aroi MnAateie*.Another mountain is called Kortmo* (to K<v<t>i» i.which is evidently an ancient name, and reminds oneof the Naxian nymph Coronis, who brought op lbsyoung Dionysus (Diod. r. 52). The mountains ofNaxos consist partly of granite and partly of marble,the hitter being scarcely inferior to that of Pans.Good whetstones were also obtained from Nana,(Hesych. ». v. Ka(!a Aiflot; Plin. xxxvi. 6. a. 9.)There arc several streams in the island, on* of whichin ancient times was called Iiiblus (BiSAoi, Steps.II. ■-'. A Bit'Aii-n). The fertility of Naxos has been equally celebratedin ancient and modern times. Herodotus says thatit excelled all other islands in prosperity (v. 28).It produces in abundance corn, oil, wine, and fruitof the finest description. In consequence of the ex­cellence of its wine Naxos was celebrated in thelegends of Dionysus, particularly those relating toAriadne. [See Diet of Biogr. art. Ariadxe.]Moreover, the priest of Dionysus gave his name tothe year, like the Archon Eponymus at Athens.(Ilorkh, Inter. 2265.) The finest wine of Naxosis now produced at a place called Aperatko*. It isa superior white wine, and is celebrated in theislands of the Aegaean under the name of BaettmtWine. The plant which produces lsdanum is frond atNaxos; and in Thevenot's time it was collected fromthe beards of goats, in the manner described byHerodotus (iii. 112). Emery is also found than,particularly in the southern part of the island, aadforms an article of export. The goats of Ksxawere celebrated in antiquity. (Allien, xii. p. 54" ) One of the most remarkable curiosities in theisland is an unfinished colossal figure, still lying iaan ancient marble quarry near the northern extremityof the island. It is about 34 feet in length, andhas always been called by the inhabitants a figureof Apollo. On the side of the hill, at the dittaaceof five minutes from the statue, we still find the in­scription, lpo$ xupl°u ttpov AtoAAm*os. Roes ecsvjectures that the statue may have been intended a*a dedicatory offering to Deloa. (Thereout, TrarrU,p. 103, Engl, transl.; Tournefort, lovooe, rei. i.p. 163, Engl, transl.; Leake, Sorthrrn Grmn,vol. iii. p. 93; Ross, liritm aufdem Gritck. Imtrim.vol. i. p. 22, seq.; Grttter, /As .Vnjro /amis, lUi.1833- Curtius, A'ojxw, llerl. 1846.) cow or the ui-axD or xaxoa.NAXL'A'NA (NajJoudVa. Ptol. T. 13. $ It), acity on the N. bank of the river Araxea, Bow .V «ri-dgictw, a city of some importance in Armenian lus»