OCR Output ANTigurriEs OF THE JEWS. Book XV. 7. By this speech, and by his behaviour, which showed Cae­sar the frankness of his mind, he greatly gained upon him, whowas himself of a generous and magnificent temper, insomuchthat those very actions, which were the foundation of the accu­sation against him, procured him Caesar's good-will. Accord­ingly, he restored him his diadem again; and encouraged himto exhibit himself as great a friend to himself as he had been toAntony, and then had him in great esteem. Moreover, he ad­ded this, that Quintius Didius had written to him, that Herodhad very readily assisted him in the affair of the gladiators. Sowhen he had obtained such a kind reception, and had, bevond allhis hopes, procured his crown to be more entirely and firmlysettled upon him than ever by Caesar's donation, as well as bythat decree of the Romans, which Caesar took care to procurefor his greater security, he conducted Caesar on his way toEgypt, and made presents even beyond his ability, to both himand his friends, and in general behaved himself with great mag­nanimity. He also desired that Caesar would not put to deathone Alexander, who had been a companion of Antony's; butCaesar had sworn to put him to death, and so he could not ob­tain that his petition: And now he returned to Judea againwith greater honour and assurance than ever, and affrighted thosethat had expectations to the contrary, as still acquiring fromhis very dangers greater splendour than before, by the favour oiGod to him. So he prepared for the reception of Cassar, as hewas going out of Syria to invade Egypt; and when he came, heentertained him at Ptolemais with all royal magnificence. Healso bestowed presents on the army, and brought them provi­sions in abundance. He also proved to be one of Caesar's mostcordial friends, and put the army in array, and rode along withCaesar, and had a hundred and fifty men, well appointed in allrespects, after a rich and sumptuous manner, for the better re­ception of him and his friends. He also provided them withwhat they should want, as they passed over the dry desert,insomuch that they lacked neither wine nor water, which lastthe soldiers stood in the greatest need of, and besides, he pre­sented Caesar with eight hundred talents, and procured to him­self the good-will of them all, because he was assisting to them ina much greater and more splendid degree than the kingdom hehad obtained could afford, by which means he more and more de­monstrated to Caesar the thinness of his friendship, and his readi­ness to assist him; and what was of the greatest advantage tohim was this, that his liberality came at a seasonable time also:And when they returned again out of Egypt, his assistances wereno way inferior to the good offices he had formerly done them.