OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 267 Ciesar, excited a conspiracy, and at length an insurrection, against her odious step­mother. The provinces were forgotten, the capital was in flames, and a centuryof peace and order was overthrown in the vice and weakness of a few months. Acivil war was kindled in Constantinople; the two factions fought a bloody battle inthe square of the palace, and the rebels sustained a regular siege in the cathedralof St. Sophia. The patriarch laboured with honest zeal to heal the wounds ofthe republic, the most respectable patriots called aloud for a guardian and avenger,and every tongue repeated the praise of the talents and even the virtues of An-dronicus. In his retirement, he affected to revolve the solemn duties of his oath." If the safety or honour of the imperial family be threatened, I will reveal or op­pose the mischief to the utmost in my power." His correspondence with the pa­triarch and patricians was seasoned with apt quotations from the Psalms of Davidand the epistles of St. Paul; and he patiently waited till he was called to her deli­verance by the voice of his country. In his march from Oenoe to Constantinople,his slender train insensibly swelled to a crowd and an army; his professions of re­ligion and loyalty were mistaken for the language of his heart; and the simplicityof a foreign dress, which showed to advantage his majestic stature, displayed alively image of his poverty and exile. All opposition sunk before him; he reached 'the straits of the Thracian Bosphorus; the Byzantine navy sailed from the harbourto receive and transport the saviour of the empire; the torrent was loud and irre­sistible, and the insects, who basked in the sunshine of royal favour, disappearedat the blast of the storm. It was the first care of Andronicus to occupy the pa­lace, to salute the emperor, to confine his mother, to punish her minister, and torestore the public order and tranquillity. He then visited the sepulchre of Ma­nuel: the spectators were ordered to stand aloof, but, as he bowed in the attitudeof prayer, they heard, or thought they heard, a murmur of triumph and revenge.M I no longer fear thee, my old enemy, who hast driven me a vagabond to everyclimate of the earth. Thou art safely deposited under a sevenfold dome, from•whence thou canst never arise till the signal of the last trumpet. It is now myturn, and speedily will I trample on thy ashes and thy posterity." From hissubsequent tyranny we may impute such feelings to the man and the moment.But it is not extremely probable that he gave an articulate sound to his secretthoughts. In the first months of his administration, his designs were veiled bya fair semblance of hypocrisy, which could delude only the eyes of the multi­tude: the coronation of Alexius was performed with due solemnity, and his perfi­dious guardian, holding in his hands the body and blood of Christ, most ferventlydeclared, that he lived, and was ready to die for the service of his beloved pupil.But his numerous adherents were instructed to maintain, that the sinking empiremust perish in the hands of a child: that the Romans could only be saved by a ve­teran prince, bold in arms, skilful in policy, and taught to reign by the long'expe-rience of fortune and mankind; and that it was the duty of every citizen, to forcethe reluctant modesty of Andronicus to undertake the burden of the public care.The young emperor was himself constrained to join his voice to the general accla­mation, and to solicit the association of a colleague, who instantly degraded himfrom the supreme rank, secluded his person, and verified the rash declaration ofthe patriarch, that Alexius might be considered as dead, so soon as he was com­mitted to the custody of his guardian. But his death was preceded by the impri­sonment and the execution of his mother. After blackening her reputation, andinflaming against her the passions of the multitude, the tyrant accused and triedthe empress for a treasonable correspondence with the king of Hungary. His ownson, a youth of honour and humanity, avowed his abhorrence of this flagitious act,and three of the judges bad the merit of preferring their conscience to their safety;but the obsequious tribunal, without requiring any proof, or hearing any defence,condemned the widow of Manuel; and her unfortunate son subscribed the sentenceof her death. Maria was strangled, her corpse was buried in the sea, and hermemory was wounded by the insult most offensive to female vanity, a false andugly representation of her beauteous form. The fate of her son was not long de­ferred: he was strangled with a bow-string, and the tyrant, insensible to pity orremorse, after surveying the body of the innocent youth, struck it rudely with hisfoot:—" Thv father," he cried, " was a knave, thy mother a whore, and thyself afool!" The Roman sceptre the reward of his crimes, was held by Andronicus about threeyears and a half, as the guardian or sovereign of the empire. His governmentexhibited a singular contrast of vice and virtue. When he listened to his jjaB­