OCR Output 72 ROMAN EMPIRE. the orthodox line between the sects of Nestorius andEutyehes; but the unfortunate question of one will oroperation in the two natures of Christ was generatedby their curious leisure. Their proselyte, the emperorHeraclius, was rejected as a Maronite from the wallsof Emesa; he found a refuge in the monastery of hisbrethren; and their theological lessons were repaidwith the gift of a spacious and wealthy domain. Thename and doctrine of this venerable school were pro­pagated among the Greeks and Syrians, and their zealis expressed by Macarius patriarch of Antioch, who de­clared before the synod of Constantinople, that soonerthan subscribe the two wills of Christ, he would submitto be hewn piecemeal, and cast into the sea.' A simi­lar or a less cruel mode of persecution soon convertedthe unresisting subjects of the plain, while the glorioustitle of Mardaites," or rebel, was bravely maintained bythe hardy natives of mount Libanus. John Maron,one of the most learned and popular of the monks, as­sumed the character of patriarch of Antioch; his ne­phew Abraham, at the head of the Maronites, defendedtheir civil and religious freedom against the tyrants ofthe east. The son of the orthodox Constantine pursued,with pio\ls hatred, a people'of soldiers, who mighthave stood the bulwark of his empire against the com­mon foes of Christ and of Rome. An army of Greeksinvaded Syria; the monastery of St. Maron was de­stroyed with fire; the bravest chieftains were betrayedand murdered, and twelve thousand of their followerswere transplanted to the distant frontiers of Armeniaand Thrace. Yet the humble nation of the Maroniteshas survived the empire of Constantinople, and they '(Vmi.il. torn. 7. p. 780. Tin' Wonoihrliti.- cause was supported with firmnesiand subtlety by Coostantiae, a Syrian priest of Apamea. (p. 1040, .v .) a Theophanes (Chron. p. 29J, 296. 300. 302. 3QC.) and Cedrenus, (p, 437.4W-) rebates the exploits of the Mardaites: tbe nape (t$w4. in Syriac lebellaiit) trates, from the year 686 to 707, the troubles of, mourn Lib.mus.