OCR Output A. D. 21.] 175 OF TACITUS. low. At the distance of twelve miles from Augusto-dunum, Sacrovir appeared in' force. His line ofbattle was formed on the open plain. The gladiators,in complete armour, were stationed in the centre; hiscohorts in the two wings, and his half-armed multi­tude in the rear. He was himself mounted on a su­perb horse, attended by a number of chiefs. He rodethrough the ranks, haranguing his men: he called tomind the glory of their ancestors, their brave exploitsagainst the Romans, and the eternal honour of suc­ceeding in the cause of liberty. A defeat, he said,would bring with it infamy, and chains, and bondage. XLVI. The speech was short, and the soldiersheard it without emotion. The legions advanced inregular order. A band of raw recruits, lately leviedin the towns of Gaul, could not sustain a sight soterrible. The faculties of eyes and ears were lost inconfusion. By the Romans victory was already an­ticipated. To exhort them was unnecessary, yet Si-lius thought proper to inflame their ardour. " The" disgrace," he said, " would be great, if the victo-" rious legions, who had conquered in Germany," were now to consider the Gauls as an equal enemy." The rebels of Tours have been chastised by a single"cohort; a detachment of the cavalry crushed the" insurgents at Treves; and a handful of this very" army gave the Sequanians a total overthrow. The" jEduans are now before you; not an army, but an" effeminate race, abounding in wealth, and enervated" by luxury. Charge with valour, and to pursue the" runaways will be your only trouble." This speechwas received with a general shout. The rebels weresoon hemmed in by the cavalry: the front of theirline gave way at the first onset of the infantry, andthe wings were put to flight. The men in iron ar­mour still kept their ranks. No impression could bemade by swords and javelins. The Romans had re­course to their hatchets and pickaxes. With these,as if battering a wall, they fell upon the enormousload and crushed both men and armour. Some at­tacked with clubs and pitchforks. The unwieldy anddefenceless enemy lay on the ground, an inanimate