OCR Output 312 TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS, [b. VII. mense multitude was left in the city, but every body wentout so far as to gain only a station where they might stand,and left only such a passage as was necessary for those thatwere to be seen to go along it. 4. Now all the soldiery marched out beforehand, by com­panies, and in their several ranks, under their several com­manders, in the night-time, and were about the gates, not ofthe upper palaces, but those near the temple of Isis; forthere it was that the emperors had rested the foregoing night.And as soon as ever it was day, Vespasian and Titus camoout, crowned with laurel, and clothed in those ancient purplehabits which were proper to their family, and then went asfar as Octavian's walks: for there it was that the senate andthe principal rulers, and those that had been recorded as ofthe equestrian order, waited for them. Now, a tribunal hadbeen erected before the cloisters, and ivory chairs had beenset upon it, when they came and sat down upon them. Where­upon the soldiery made an acclamation of joy to them imme­diately, and all gave them attestations of their valor; whilethey were themselves without their arms, and only in theirsilken garments, and crowned with laurel: then Vespasianaccepted of these shouts of theirs ; but while they were stilldisposed to go on in such acclamations, he gave them asignal of silence. And when every body entirely held theirpeace, he stood up, and covering the greatest part of hishead with his cloak, he put up the accustomed solemnprayers ; the like prayers did Titus put up also : after whichprayers Vespasian made a short speech to all the people, andthen sent away the soldiers to a dinner prepared for themby the emperors. Then did he retire to that gate which wascalled the Gate of the Pomp, because pompous shows doalways go through that gate : there it was that they tastedsome food; and when they had put on their triumphal gar­ments, and had offered sacrifices to the gods that were placedat the gate, they sent the triumph forward, and marchedthrough the theatres, that they might be the more easily seenby the multitudes. 5. Now it is impossible to describe the multitude of tho