OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, qs) By, his marriage with this impious woman, Romanus the younger left two sons,Basil II. and Constantine IX. and two daughters, Theophano and Anne. Theeldest sister was given to Otho II. emperor of the west; the younger became thewife of Wolodomir, great duke and apostle of Russia, and by the marriage of hergrand-daughter with Henry I. king of France, the blood of the Macedonians, andperhaps of the Arsacides, still flows in the veins of the Bourbon line. After thedeath of her husband, the empress aspired to reign in the name of her sons, theelder of whom was five, and the younger only two years of age; but she soon feltthe instability of a throne, which was supported by a female who could not be es­teemed, and two infants who could not be feared. Theophano looked around fora protector, and threw herself into the arms of the bravest soldier: her heart wascapricious; but the deformity of the new favourite rendered it more probable thatinterest was the motive and excuse of her love. Nicephorus Phocas united, in thepopular opinion, the double merit of a hero and a saint. In the former character,his qualifications were genuine and splendid: the descendant of a race, illustriousby their military exploits, he had displayed in every station, and in every pro­vince, the courage of a soldier and the conduct of a chief; and Nicephorus wascrowned with recent laurels, from the important conquest of the isle of Crete. Hisreligion was of a more ambiguous cast; and his hair-cloth, his fasts, his pious idiom,and his wish to retire from the business of the world, were a convenient mask forhis dark and dangerous ambition. Yet he imposed on a holy patriarch, by whoseinfluence, and by a decree of the senate, he was intrusted, during the minority ofthe young princes, with the absolute and independent command of the orientalarmies. As soon as he had secured the leaders and the troops, he boldly marchedto Constantinople, trampled on his enemies, avowed his correspondence with theempress, and, without degrading her sons, assumed, with the title of Augustus,the pre-eminence of rank and the plenitude of power. But his marriage withTheophano was refused by the same patriarch who had placed the crown on hishead; by his second nuptials he incurred a year of canonical penance; a bar ofspiritual affinity was opposed to their celebration; and some evasion and perjurywere required to silence the scruples of the clergy and people. The popularityof the emperor was lost in the purple: in a reign of six years he provoked the ha­tred of strangers and subjects, and the hypocrisy and avarice of the first Nice­phorus were revived in his successor. Hypocrisy I shall never justify or palliate;but I will dare to observe, that the odious vice of avarice is of all others mosthastily arraigned, and most unmercifully condemned. In a private citizen, ouyjudgment seldom expects an accurate scrutiny into his fortune and expense: and ina steward of the public treasure, frugality is always a virtue, and the increase oftaxes too often an indispensable duty. In the use of his patrimony, the generoustemper of Nicephorus had been proved; and the revenue was strictly applied tothe service of the state: each spring the emperor marched in person against theSaracens; and every Roman might compute the employment of his taxes in tri­umphs, conquests, and the security of the eastern barrier. Among the warriors who promoted his elevation, and served under his standard,a noble and Valiant Armenian had deserved and obtained the most eminent re­wards. The statue of John Zimisces was below the ordinary standard; but thisdiminutive body was endowed with strength, beauty, and the soul of a hero. Bythe jealousy of the emperor's brother, he was degraded from the office of generalof the east, to that of director of the posts, and his murmurs were chastised withdisgrace and exile. But Zimisces was ranked among the numerous lovers of theempress: on her intercession he was permitted to reside at Chalcedon, in the neigh­bourhood of the capital: her bounty was repaid in his clandestine and amorous visitsto the palace; and Theophano consented with alacrity to the death of an ugly andpenurious husband. Some bold and trusty conspirators were concealed in her mostprivate chambers; in the darkness of a winter night, Zimisces, with his principalcompanions, embarked in a small boat, traversed the Bosphorus, landed at thepalace stairs, and silently ascended a ladder of ropes, which was cast down by thefemale attendants. Neither his own suspicions, nor the warnings of his friends,nor the tardy aid of his brother Leo, nor the fortress which he had erected in thepalace, could protect Nicephorus from a domestic foe, at whose voice every doorwas opened to the assassins. As he slept on a bear-skin on the ground, ho wasroused by their noisy intrusion, and thirty daggers glittered before his eyes. It isdoubtful whether Zimisces imbrued his hands in the blood of his sovereign; but heenjoyed the inhuman spectacle of revenge. The murder was protracted by insult