OCR Output 164 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. BOOK XII. CHAP. V. How, upon the quarrels of the Jews one against another aboutthe high priesthood, Antiochus made an expedition against Je­rusalem, took the city and pillaged the temple, and distressedthe Jews: As also how many of the Jews forsook the laws oftheir country,- and how the Samaritans followed the customsof the Greeks, and named their temple at mount Gerizzim, thetemple of Jupiter Hellenius. § 1. ABOUT this time, upon the death of Onias the highpriest, they gave the high priesthood to Jesus' brother; torthat son which Onias left [or Onias IV.] was yet but an in­fant: and, in its proper place, we will inform the reader of allthe circumstances that befell this child. But this Jesus, whowas the brother of Onias, was deprived of the high priesthoodby the king, who was angry with him, and gave it to hisyounger brother, whose name also was Onias, for Simon hadthese three sons, to each of which the priesthood came as wehave * already informed the reader. This Jesus changed hisname to Jason; but Onias was called Menelaus. Now as theformer high priest, Jesus, raised a sedition against Menelaus,who was ordained after him, the multitude were divided betweenthem both. And the sons of Tobias took the part of Menelaus,but the greater part of the people assisted Jason: and by thatmeans Menelaus, and the sons of Tobias were distressed, andretired to Antiochus, and informed him, that they were desir­ous to leave the laws of their country, and the Jewish way ofliving according to them, and to follow the king's laws, and theGrecian way of living: Wherefore they desired his permissionto build them a f Gymnasium at Jerusalem. And when he had * We have hitherto had but a few of those many citations where Josephus says,that he had elsewhere formerly treated of many things, of which yet his presenthooks have not a syllable. Our commentators have hitherto been able to give notolerable account of these citations, which are far too numerous, and that usually inall his copies, both Greek and Latin, to be supposed later interpolations, which isalmost all that has been hitherto said upon this occasion. What I have to say far­ther is this, that we have but very few of these references before, and very many inand after the history of Antiochus Epiphanes; and that Josephus' first book, theHebrew or Chaldee, as well as the Greek history of the Jewish War, long since lost,began with that very history, so that the references are most probably made to thatedition of the seven Books of the War. See several other examples, besides thosein the two sections before us, in Antiq. B. XIII. chap. ii. sect . 1, 4. vol. II. andrhap. iv. sect. 6, 8. chap, v* sect. 6, 11. chap. viii. sect. 4. and chap. xiii. sect. 4, 5.and Antiq. B. XVIII- chap. ii. sect. 5. vol. III. f This word Gymnasium, properly denotes a place where the exercises were per­formed naked, which because it would naturally distinguish circumcised Jews front