OCR Output 70 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X. poor, and those that had deserted, in the country, and madeone, whose name was Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, a person ofa noble family, their governor; which Gedaliah was of a gentleand righteous disposition. He also commanded them that theyshould cultivate the ground, and pay an appointed tribute to theking. He also took Jeremiah the prophet out of prison, andWould have persuaded him to go along with him to Babylon, forthat he had been enjoined by the king to supply him with what­soever he wanted : and if he did not like to do so, he desired himto inform him where he resolved to dwell, that he might sig­nify the same to the king: but the prophet had no mind tofollow him, nor to dwell any where else, but would gladly liveIn the ruins of his country, and in the miserable remains of it.When the general understood what his purpose was, he en­joined Gedaliah, whom he left behind, to take all possible careof him, and to supply him with whatsoever he wanted: Sowhen he had given him rich presents, he dismissed him. Ac­cordingly, Jeremiah abode in a city of that country, which wascalled Mispah; and desired of Nebuzaradan, that he would setat liberty his disciple * Baruch, the son of Neraiah, one of aVery eminent family, and exceeding skilful in the language ofhis country. 2. When Nabuzaradan had done thus, he made haste to Ba­bylon: But as to those that fled away during the siege of Jeru­salem, and had been scattered over the country, when they heardthat the Babylonians were gone away, and had left a remnantin the land of Jerusalem, and those such as were to cultivate thesame, they came together from all parts to Gedaliah to Mispah.Now the rulers that were over them were Johanan, the son ofKareah, and Jazeniah, andSeraiah, and others beside them. Nowthere was of the royal family one Ishmael, a wicked man, andvery crafty, who during the siege of Jerusalem, fled to Baalis,the king of the Ammonites, and abode with him during thattime: And Gedaliah persuaded them now they were there, tostay with him, and to have no fear of the Babylonians, for thatif they would cultivate the country, they should suffer no harm,This he assured them of by oath; and said, that they shouldhave him for their patron, and that if any disturbance shouldarise, they should find him ready to defend them. He also advis­ed them to dwell in any city, as everyone of them pleased; andthat they would send men along with his own servants, and re­build their houses upon the old foundations, and dwell there,and he admonished them beforehand, that they should make * Of Ihis character of Baruch the son of Neraiah, and the genuineness of his bookthai stands now in our Apocrypha, and thai it is ivally a canonical book, and an ap­pendix to Jeremiah, see Authcut. Rec. part 1. page 1—11.