OCR Output IHARSAHS. 5U1 PHARUSII. dr^ilim Cienr's description, which have beenupon by Leake in an essay printed in\ j Tmmetm of tie Royal Society of Literature(ni it. p. 68,2nd Series), from which the fol-<nx KOMBt u taken. A lev dsys previous to the battle Caesar had takenf«ai if Metropolis, ■ city westward of Phar-aii, ad had encamped in the plain between these:■• atiea. Hsuume Pompey arrired at Larissa,at hm tbmte edtinced southwards towards Piiar-*»•; or erased the Enipeus, and encamped at the*« <i the bnr, hts, which are adjacent to the modernfrost ce the east. Caesar's camp, or rather his** paa he&n the battle, was in toe plain be-*« Phanalu and the Enipeos, at the distances1 et>«j 3 mike from the still extant north-westernay* of tar walls of Pharsalus. There was a dis-iro «f JO stadia, or about 4 Roman miles, fromo» tm caawa. (Appian, B. C. ii. 65.) Appian•ati thai the array of Pompey, when drawn np fur■ua, ertsaded from the city of Pbursal tis to theuar*».and that Caesar drew up his forces opposite**rx (B. C. ii. 75.) The battle was fought init sail inantdiately below the city of Pharsalus * B» tMth. Then is a level of about 2) miles in•Wih between the Enipeos and the elevation or■u tfaa which stood the northern walls of Phar-wa. Merirsle is mistaken in saying that " theso </ Phsrsahu, 5 or 6 miles in breadth, extendsai,' the Uft bank of the Enipeus." It is true * i «rI nika is about the breadth of the plain,e iau breadth is equally divided between the two*• ■.<■ the river; nor is there anything to support"»»>'« conjecture that the coarse of the river maywi beared since the time of the battle. Leakeana that ths plain of 2 J miles in breadth was'■•-> lai-ieat for 45,000 men drawn up in the■» «s«aa> of three orders, each ten in depth, and ■ then weald be still space enough for thett» auahy, upon which Pompey founded chiefly1 kfel of victory; fur the breadth of the plainW gnat for Caesar's numbers, be thought■wj ran of being able, by his commanding forcew'eirt, to torn the enemy's right. at Sf* Pompey drew up his forces at the foot of'*!•■ hat when Caesar refused to fight in this■we, sad brean to towards Scotuasa, Pom-1 "tended into the plain, and arranged his army'* r-*tiioo eiready described. His right wing■J fwaclei by the Etripeeie, which has preci-•» waha, he placed his cavalry, as well aa all•**"» sad dingers, on the left. Caesar's leftI vis a like manner protected by the Enipeus; ■ uwraaraf his right wing, behind his smallI d bwaa, be su tinned six cohorts, in order toP the anticipated attack of the enemy's Petri per resolved to await the charge.»wi bat advanced running, halted midway to** uW breath, and then charged the enemy.^ two Unas wen thus occupied, Pompey's** • the left began to execute the movement ■ vein be placed his hopes of victory; but afterwit hark Caesar's small body of horse, they were■peieeih assailed by the six cohorts and put to * Tone cohorts now advanced against the''Pauper', left; while Caesar at the same time<P rp a> bis front the third line, which had ■ w? n reserve. Pompey's troops now gaveI'wwatws. Caesar then advanced toat the twtififd camp of the enemy, which was■ex: W toeai time by the cohorts left in charge of it; but at length they fled to the mountains atthe back of the camp. Pompey proceeded straight­way to Larissa, and from thence by night to thesea-coast. The hill where the Pompeians had takenrefuge being without water, they soon quitted itand took the road towards Larissa. Caesar fol­lowed them with four legions, and, by taking ashorter road, came up with them at the distanco of6 miles. The fugitives now retired into anothermountain, at the foot of which there was a river;but Caesar having cut off their approach to thowater before nightfall, they descended from theirposition in the morning and laid down their arms.Caesar proceeded on the same day to Larissa.Leake observes that the mountain towards Larissato which the Pompeians retired was probably nearScotussa, since in that direction alone is any moun­tain to be found with a river at the foot of it In the time of Pliny, Pharsalus was a freestate (iv. 8. s. 15). It is also mentioned by Hie-roclea (p. 642) in tbe sixth century. It is nownamed Ftrtala (to ve'pcraAa), and the moderntown lies at the foot of tho ancient Acropolis. COIN OF PHAIISALl'S. PHARU'SH (OofMoVwi, Strab. ii. p. 131, xvii.pp. 826, 828; Ptol. iv. 6. § 17; Polyb. op. Plin.v. 1. s. 8, vi. 35), a people on the W. coast of N.Africa, about the situation of whom Strabo, Pliny,and Ptolemy are in perfect agreement with oneanother, if the thirty journeys of Strabo (p. 826)between them and Lixus (Kl-AraUh), on the W.coast of Morocco, to the S. of Cape Spartel, be setaside as an error either of his information or of thetext; which latter is not improbable, aa numbers inMSS. are so often corrupt. Nor is this mere con­jecture, because Strabo contradicts himself by as­serting in another place (p. 828) that the Pharusiihad a great desert between them and alauretania,which they crossed, like natives of the present day,with bags of water hung from the bellies of theirhorses. (Leake,Loruhn Gtog. Jovrn. vol. ii. p. 16.)This locality, extending from beyond Cape Bojadvrto the banks of the Senegal, was the seat of themany towns of the Tyrians, amounting, according tosome (Strab. p. 826), to as many as 300, whichwere destroyed by the Pharusii and Kigritac. (Comp.Humboldt, Comot, vol. ii. p. 129, note 123, trans.)Strabo reckons this number of 300 commercial set­tlements, from which this part of the coast of tbeAtlantic received the name of SiNt:s Emportcub,as an exaggeration. He appears in this to havefollowed the criticism of Artcniidorus upon Erato­sthenes, whom Strabo depreciates. Tho number 300may be an exaggeration, or one not intended to beliterally taken; but it is incredible that Eratosthenesshould represent a coast as covered with Phoenicianfactories where none existed. When Ezekiel prophesies the fall of Tyre, it issaid (xxvii. 10) " The men of Pheres (the commonversion reads Persia), and Lud, and Phut were inthine armies." These Pheres thus joined with thePhut or Mauretanians, and the Ludim, who were