OCR Output TO THE PUBLIC. tii appointed him praeceptor to his grandson Claudius, after­wards emperor.* It is recorded by the younger Pliny, that the reputa­tion of Livy had begun already to make so much noisein the world, -that he received an honourable visit fromthe extremity of Spain, occasioned by the fame of hisgreat and extensive genius which had found its way thi-ther-t After the death of Augustus, he returned to his nativePadua, where he was received by his fellow-citizen*with every demonstration of joy and mark of honour;He died there in the fourth year of the empire of Tibe­rias. Whilst he staid at Rome, and had the countenanceand protection of Augustus, he had every opportunity ofattaining whatever knowledge was necessary to his design jto the study of which he was so much attached, that hesequestered himself in a manner from the world and thepursuits of ambition, so that his life became thereaftermore obscure: for, applying his whole attention to thegreat work he had undertaken, he shut himself up in hisstudy, and consequently had very little intercourse with.society. So vast and so great an enterprise, both in theplan and execution, certainly required the noblest effortof human genius; but the elevated and generous senti­ments which so remarkably distinguish and stamp an un­common beauty and excellency on Titus Livius' history,are derived from the nobleness of the heart, for whichour author seems to have been illustriously conspicuous. Any one who has read the works of Livy with atten­tion, will be at no loss to pronounce him a man of worthand probity. The manner in which he speaks of him­self, is peculiarly modest: vanity is a foible to which heseems to have been a perfect stranger. Of himself per­sonally, he seldom or never speaks: nor in the wholecourse of his history does he mention the least thingthat concerns hirn, save only that the temple of Januswas shut in his time. Nothing can be a greater proofof bis natural turn of mind in this particular, than thestrain of modesty which runs through the preface to hishistory. No author ever promised less, or performed * Suet, in Claud, cap. 41; t Lib. II. Ep. 3.