OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 477 the ruin of the Roman name depended on the chap.firm union, and reciprocal aid, of all the nations to . XXI11.whom it had been gradually communicated, thesubjects of Arcadius and Honorius were instructed,by their respective masters, to view each other in aforeign, and even hostile, light; to rejoice in theirmutual calamities, and to embrace, as their faithfulallies, the Barbarians, whom they excited to invadethe territories of their countrymen *. The; nativesof Italy affected to despise the servile and effeminateGreeks of Byzantium, who presumed to imitate thedress, and to usurp the dignity, of Roman senators t;and the Greeks had not yet forgot the sentiments ofhatred and contempt, which their polished ancestorshad so long entertained for the rude inhabitants ofthe West. The distinction of two governments,which soon produced the separation of two nations,will justify my design of suspending the series of theByzantine history, to prosecute, without interruption,the disgraceful, but memorable, reign of Honorius. The prudent Stilicho, instead of persisting to force Revolt ofthe inclinations of a prince, and people, who rejected Africa'"his government, wisely abandoned Arcadius to his 3 8Gunworthy favourites; "and his reluctance to involvethe two empires in a civil war displayed the modera­tion of a minister, who had so often signalized hismilitary spirit and abilities. But if Stilicho had anylonger endured the revolt of Africa, he would havebetrayed the security ©f the capital, and the majestyof the Western emperor, to the capricious insolenceof a Moorish rebel. Gildo, the brother of the tyrant * See Claudian (i. Cons. Stilich. 1. i. 275. 292. 296.1. ii. 83), and Zosimus,1. v. p. 302. + Claudian turns the consulship of the eunuch Eutropius into a national re­flection (1. ii. 134). ——— Plaudentem cerne senatum Et Byzantinos proceres, Graiosque Quirites: O patribus plebes, O digni consule patres.It is curious to observe the first symptoms of jealousy and schism, between old andnew Rome, between the Greeks and Latins.