OCR Output 2-1 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. land of Amor, or the Amorite; And that the con­queror ' had nude bare his right arm to overcomethe chiefs of many walled cities.' This implies thatthe fort in question, the name of which is inscribedupon it, was the chief stronghold of the nation.That name, when translated from the hieroglyphicsinto Coptic, and thence into Hebrew, U Chadash.The next notice of Chadash belongs to the reign ofSesostris, and connects it with the Jebusite nation.The Ammonites had laid siege to the city, and ajoint embassy of the Jebositcs and Hittites, whowere then tributary to Sesostris, entreat him to cometo their aid. The Kgyptians having accordinglynailed over the Dead Sea, met with another embassy,from the /.uzims, which gave further particulars ofthe siege. The enemy had seized on the fortifiedcamps erected by the Egyptians to secure their holdover the country, and spread terror to the very wallaof Chadash. A great battle is fought on a moun­tain to the south of the city of Chadash. The in­scription further describes Chadash as being in theland of Heth. What, then, do wc gather from thesecombined notices? Plainly this, that Chadash wasa city of the first importance, both in a military andcivil point of view; the centre of interest to three orfour of the most powerful of the Canaanitish na­tions; in a word, their metropolis. We find itmoreover placed, by one inscription, in the territoryof the Amoritcs, by another in that of the Hittites,while it is obviously inhabited, at the same time, bythe .Tehusitcs. Now, omitting for the present theconsideration of the Hittites, this is the exact cha­racter and condition in which Jerusalem appears inScripture at the time of Joshua's invasion. Its me­tropolitan character is evinced by the lead whichAdoni-aedek, its king, takes in the confederacy ofthe Five Kings; its strength as a fortress, by the factthat it was not then even attempted by Joshua, norever taken for 400 years after. And while, as theroyal city of Adoni-zedek, it is reckoned among theAmorite possessions, it is no less distinctly calledJehus {Josh. xv. 8, xriii. 28; Jutlg. i. 21,xix. 10)down to the days of David; the truth being, ap­parently, that the Amorite power having been extin­guished in the person of Adoni-zedek, the Jebusitethenceforth obtained the ascendency in the city whichthe two nations inhabited in common. Nor is thereany difficulty in accounting, from Scripture, fur theshare assigned by the monuments to the Hittites inthe possession of the city; for, as Mr, Osburn hasobserved, the tribes of the Amorites and Hittitesapiiear, from Scripture, to have bordered upon eachother. The city was probably, therefore, situatedat a point where the possessions of the three tribesmet. Can we, then, hesitate to identify the Chadashof the hieroglyphics with the KdStm* of Herodotus,the El-Kuds of the Aral*, the Kadatha of the8yrians, the ' Holy' City? The only shadow of anobjection that appears to lie against it is, that, strictlyspeaking, the name should be not Chadash, butKadsvh. But when it is considered that the nameis a translation out of Canaanitiah into hieroglyphics,thence into Coptic, and thence again into Hebrew,and that the difference between f\ and p is, after all,but small, it is not too much to suppose thatKadesh is what is really intended to be represented.That Jerusalem should be known to the Canaanitesby such a name as this, denoting it' the Holy,' willnot seem unreasonable, if we bear in mind wlmt ltasbeen noticed above with reference to the title Adoni-sedsk; and the fact forms an interesting link, con* necttng the Arabian and Syrian name for the citywith its earlier nomenclature, and confirming theidentity of Herodotuss Cadytis with Jerusalem.Mr. Osburn has only very doubtingly propounded(p. 66, note) the view we have undertaken to defend.He inclines to identify Chadash with the Hadasbah,or Addasa, enumerated among the southernmost,cities towards the border of Edom, given to Judah{Josh, xv. 21) from among the Amorites' posses­sions. But it seems incredible that we should neverhear again, in the history of Joshua's conquest, of soimportant a city as Chadash evidently was: besides,Hadashah seems to lie too far south. We presumeMr. Osburn will not be otherwise than pleased tofind the more interesting view supported by anyarguments which had not occurred to him. Andwe have reserved one which we think Aristotle him­self would allow to be of the nature of a TCJCptrjpieror * clinching argument.' It is a geographical one.The paintings represent Chadash as surrounded bya river or brook on three sides; and this river orbrook runs into the Dead Sea, toward the northernpart of it. Surely, nothing could more accuratelydescribe the very remarkable conformation of Jeru­salem; its environment on the east, south, and west,by the waters of the valleys of Jchoahaphat andHinnom, and their united course, after their junc­tion, through the Wady En-Nar into the north-wentpart of the Dead Sea. And there are some diffi­culties or peculiarities in the Scripture narrativerespecting Jerusalem, which the monuments, thusinterpreted, will lie found to explain or illustrate.We have already alluded to its being in one placespoken of as an Amorite city, in another as the chiefseat of the Jebiisites. The LXX. were so pressedwith this difficulty, that they adopted the rendering'Jebusite' for 'Amorite' in the passage whichmakes Adoni zedek an Amorite king. {Josh. x. 5.)The hieroglyphics clear up the difficulty, and renderthe change of reading unnecessary. Again, there isa well-known ambiguity as to whether Jerusalemwas situated in the tribe of Judah or Benjamin; andthe view commonly acquiesced in is, that, being inthe borders of the two tribes, it was consideredcommon to both. Pernaps the right of possession,or the apportionment, was never fully settled; thoughthe Rabbies draw you the exact line through th*very court of the Temple, But how, it may beasked, came such an element of confusion to be in­troduced into the original distribution of the HolyLand among the tribes? The answer seems to be,that territory was, for convenience' sake, assigned,in some measure, according to existing divisions;thus, the Amorite and Hittitc possessions, as a whole,fell to Judah; the Jebusite to Benjamin; and thenall the uncertainty resulting from that joint occu­pancy of the city by the three nations, which iatestified to by the monuments, was necessarily in­troduced into the rival claims of the two tribe*."{Christian Remrmbmncer, vol. xviiL pp. 457—459.)The ini[>ortai»re of the powerful Jebusite tribe,who are represented as having u more than one cityor stronghold near the I>ead .Sea, and are engagedin a succession of wars with the kings of Egypt inthe neighbourhood of its shores;'* whose rich gar­ments of Babylonish texture,—deleted in the hiero-pNphica,—and musical instruments, and warlikeaccoutrementa, testify to a higher degree of cultureand civilisation than was found among the neigh­bouring tribes, with many of whom they were nnleruu of offensive and defensive alliance:—ail Uua