OCR Output ft. IV. 30G YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. the opposite shore ; for by these dispositions the Athe­nians would be incommoded from the island, and excludedfrom landing on the main land: And as on the oppositecoast of Pylus without the harbour there is no road whereships can lie, they would be deprived of a station fromwhence to succour the besieged: And thus, -without thehazard of a naval engagement, it was probable they should getpossession of the place, as the quantity of provisions in itcould be but small, since the seizure had been executed withslender preparation.—Acting upon these motives they threwthe body of heavy-armed into the island, who were draughtedby lot out of all the bands. These for a time were succes­sively relieved by others. But the last body, who guardedthat post, and were forced to continue in it, consisted ofabout four hundred and twenty exclusive of the Helots whoattended them, and these were commanded by Epitadas, theson of Molobrus. Demosthenes perceiving by these dispositions that theLacedaemonians would attack him by land and sea, providedfor his own defence. The triremes yet remaining with himhe drew ashore, and ranged them by way of palisade be­fore the fortress. The mariners he armed with bucklers,sorry ones indeed, as most of them were only twigs of osierplaited. Better arms were not to be procured in so desart aplace. And even these they had taken out of a cruizer ofthirty oars and a light packet belonging to Messenians, whohappened accidentally to put in. The Messenians on boardwere about forty heavy-armed, whom he ranged amongst hisown body. The greater part therefore of the unarmed aswell as some who had armour, he placed on the strongestparts of the fortress towards the continent, with orders tobeat off the land army whenever they approached. Andhaving selected from his whole number sixty heavy-armedand a few archers, he marched out of the fortress to that partof the beach where he supposed the enemy would endeavourto land. The shore indeed was rough and rocky, and bor­