OCR Output C. V.] AND ROMAN CAMPS. 19 sudden, when there is occasion for making sallies, as theycome hack when they are recalled in crowds also. 4. Now when they are to go out of their camp, the trumpetgives a sound, at which time nohody lies still, but at the firstintimation they take down their tents, and all is made readyfor their going out; then do the trumpets sound again, toorder them to get ready for the march; then do they laytheir baggage suddenly upon their mules and other beasts ofburden, and stand, as at the place of starting, ready tomarch; when also they set fire to their camp; and this theydo because it will be easy for them to erect another camp,and that it may not ever he of use to their enemies. Thendo the trumpets give a sound the third time, that they areto go out, in order to excite those that, on any account, area little tardy, that so no one may be out of his rank whenthe army marches. Then does the crier stand at the gene­ral's right hand, and ask them thrice in their own tongue,whether they be now ready to go out to war or not ? Towhich they reply as often, with a loud and cheerful voice,saying, " We are ready." And this they do almost beforethe question is asked them: they do this as filled with a kindof martial fury, and at the same time that they so cry out,they lift up their right hands also. 5. When, after this, they are gone out of their camp, theyall march without noise, and in a decent manner, and everyone keeps his own rank, as if they were going to war. Thefootmen are armed with breast-plates and head-pieces, andhave swords on each side; but the sword which is on theirleft side is much longer than the other; for that on the rightside is not longer than a span. Those footmen also that arechosen out from the rest to be about the general himself havea lance and a buckler; but the rest of the foot-soldiers havea spear and a long buckler, besides a saw and a basket, apickaxe and an axe, a thong of leather and a hook, with pro­visions for three days, so that a footman hath no great needof a mule to carry his burdens. The horsemen have a longsword on their right sides, and a long pole in their hand; ashield also lies by them obliquely on one side of their horses,