OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 231 .with the mass of their party. They had also observed thatthe most gifted, most energetic, and most celebrated states­men of Rome had found themselves, at the very momentwhen they came forward as advocates of the Italians, desertedby their own adherents and had been accordingly overthrown.In all the vicissitudes of the thirty years of revolution andrestoration governments enough had been installed and de­posed, but, however the programme might vary, a short­sighted and narrow-minded spirit sat always at the helm. Above all, the recent occurrences had clearly shown The Italian;how vain was the expectation of the Italians that their *""•the oll-claims would be attended to by Rome. So long as the de- S^^i'-mands of the Italians were mixed up with those of the revo­lutionary party and had in the hands of the latter beenrejected by the folly of the -masses, they might still resignthemselves to the belief that the oligarchy had been hostilemerely to the proposers, not to the proposal itself, and thatthere was still a possibility that the more intelligent senatewould accept a measure which was compatible with the natureof the oligarchy and salutary for the state. But the recentyears, in which the senate once more ruled almost abso­lutely, had shed only too disagreeable a light on the designsof the Roman oligarchy also. Instead of the expected mo­difications, there was issued in 659 a consular law which most 95.strictly prohibited the non-burgesses from laying claim to The Liciniothe franchise and threatened transgressors with. trial and Mucianpunishment—a law, which threw back a large number of aw'most respectable persons who were deeply interested in thequestion of equalization from the ranks of Romans into thoseof the Italians, and which in point of indisputable legalityand of political folly stands completely on a parallel withthat famous act which laid the foundation for the separa­tion of North America from the mother-country; in factit became, just like that act, the proximate cause of thecivil war. It was only so much the worse, that the authorsof this law by no means belonged to the obstinate and incor­rigible Optimates; they were no other than the sagacious anduniversally honoured Quintus Scaevola—destined like GeorgeGrenville by nature to be a jurist and by fate to be astatesman, who by his equally honourable and pernicious rec­titude inflamed more than any one else first the war betweensenate and equites and then that between Romans andItalians — and the orator Lucius Crassus, the friend and