OCR Output DISCOURSE I. XXX111 His own Introduction, of itself, in a great measure esta­blished the fact. He perceived the storm was gathering;he knew the jealousies of the States which composed theLacedaemonian league; he also knew the real strength ofAthens, and heard all the preventive measures recommend­ed by Pericles to put his countrymen in a proper posture ofdefence. He himself seems to have been alert for the con­tention, and ready both with lance and pen, not only to bearhis share in the events, but also to perpetuate the memory ofthem. His own words (iati«-««- and TiKn*ie*nit»r) seem todenote the great earnestness and attention of his mind to thewide field of matter, which was now going to be opened.He longed to become a historian ; he saw a fine subject forhistory fast approaching ; he immediately set about noting alloccurrences, began at once to collect materials ; and was re­solved to write the History of The Pehponnestan War beforeit was actually on foot. Can we doubt then of his residence during this portion oftime at Athens ? He was arrived, at the breaking out ofthis war, to the full vigour and ripeness of his years andunderstanding, according to his chronologist (Mr. Dodwell)was just forty years old. We learn from himself*, that heknew personally the whole series of things ; he was everpresent at the transactions of one or other of the contend­ing parties; more, after his exile, at those of the Pelopon-nesians ; and consequently, before his exile, at those of theAthenians. He speaks of Pericles, as one who was an eye­witness of his conduct; as one who heard him harangue inthe assembly of the people, convincing that a war therewould necessarily be, and for that reason they ought not toweaken themselves by ill-judged concessions, but gallantlyto exert that naval power, which had made Athens enviedand dreaded, and which alone, as it had made, could keepher great. He must regularly have taken his post upon thewalls, and seen the Peloponnesians, in the first year of the■ Book the fifth. Vol. I. E