OCR Output 560 [BOOK *▼, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. government, introduced such customs asthey had never been used to before: as in­deed in pretence a king, but in reality onethat shewed himself an enemy to their wholenation. On this account ten men, that werecitizens of Jerusalem, conspired togetheragainst Herod, and swore to one anotherto undergo any dangers in the attempt; andtook daggers with them, under their gar­ments, for the purpose of killing him. Nowthere was a certain blind man among theseconspirators, who had thus sworn, on ac­count of the indignation he had against whathe heard to have been done. He was notindeed able to afford the rest any great as­sistance in this undertaking; but was readyto undergo any suffering with them, in theevent of their sustaining any harm; insomuchthat he became a very great encourager ofthe rest of the undertakers. When they had taken this resolution, theywent up into the theatre; hoping that He­rod himself could not escape them, as theyshould fall upon him so unexpectedly; andsupposing that if they missed of him, theyshould kill a great many of those that wereabout him. And this resolution they took,though they should die for it, in order tosuggest to the king what injuries he haddone to the multitude. These conspiratorsstanding thus previously prepared, wentabout their design with great alacrity. Butthere was one of those spies of Herod's thatwere appointed to inform him of any con­spiracies that should be made against him,who found out the whole affair, and told theking of it, as he was about to go into thetheatre. So when he reflected on the ha­tred which he knew the majority of the peo­ple bore him, and on the disturbances thatarose upon every occasion, he thought thisplot against him not to be improbable. Ac­cordingly he retired into his palace; andcalled those that were accused of this con­spiracy before him by their several names.And as upon the guards falling upon them,they were caught in the very fact, andknew they could not escape, they preparedthemselves for their ends with all the de­cency they could; and so as not to recedefrom their resolute behaviour. For theyshewed no shame for what they were about;nor denied it: but when they were seized, they shewed their daggers, and professedthat the conspiracy they had sworn to wasa holy and a pious action; that what theyintended to do was not for gain, nor out ofany indulgence to their passions; but prin­cipally for those common customs of theircountry, which all the Jews were obliged toobserve, or to die for them. This was whatthese men said, out of their undaunted cou­rage in this conspiracy. So they were ledaway to execution by the king's guards, thatstood about them; and patiently underwentall the torments inflicted on them till theydied. Nor was it long before that spy, whohad discovered them, was seized on by someof the people, out of the hatred they borehim, and was not only slain by them, butpulled to pieces limb from limb, and givento the dogs. This action was seen by manyof the citizens; yet would not one of themdiscover the perpetrators of it; till uponHerod's making a strict scrutiny after them,by bitter and severe tortures, certain womenthat were tortured confessed what they hadseen done. The authors of the fact werethen so terribly punished by the king, thattheir entire families were destroyed for thisrash attempt. Yet did not the obstinacy ofthe people, and that undaunted constancythey shewed in the defence of their laws,make Herod any easier to them; but he stillstrengthened himself after a more securemanner, and resolved to encompass themultitude every way, lest such innovationsshould terminate in an open rebellion. Since, therefore, he had now the city for­tified by the palace in which he lived, andby the temple ? which had a strong fortressby it called Antonia, and rebuilt by himself;he contrived to make Samaria a fortress forhimself also against the people; and calledit Sebaste: supposing that this place wouldbe a strong hold against the country, notinferior to the former. So he fortified that f)lace, which was a day's journey distantrom Jerusalem; and which would therefore,be useful to him in common, to keep boththe country and the city in awe. He alsobuilt another fortress for the whole nation.It was anciently called Strato's tower, butwas by him named Caesarea. He chose outsome select horsemen, and placed them inthe great plain; and built for them a place