OCR Output 326 THE PELOPONKESIAN WAR. with excess of courage. Experience had now lessened thatterror in which they had been used to regard this foe. Theynow had met with no rough reception from them, whichfell out quite contrary to what they firmly expected at theirfirst landing, when their spirits had sunk very low at thethought, that it was against Lacedaemonians. Contemptensued ; and embodying, with a loud shout they rushed up­on them ; pouring in stones and arrows and darts, whatevercame first to hand. At such a shout, accompanied with soimpetuous a charge, astonishment seized their foes, quite un­practised in such a form of engagement; at the same time,the ashes of the wood, which had been burnt, were mountinglargely into the air. So that now each lost the sight of whatwas close before him, under the showers of darts and stonesthrown by such numbers, and whirling along in a cloud ofdust. Amidst so many difficulties the Lacedaemonians nowwere solely distressed. The safe-guards on their heads andbreasts were no longer proof against the arrows, and theirjavelins were broke to pieces when poised for throwing.They were quite at a loss for some means of defence ; theywere debarred the prospect of what was passing just beforethem ; and the shouts of the enemy were so loud that theycould no longer hear any orders. Danger thus surroundingthem on all sides, they quite despaired of the possibility ofsuch resistance as might earn their safety. At last, a greatpart of that body being wounded, because obliged to adherefirmly to the spot on which they stood, embodying close,they retreated towards the fort on the skirt of the island,which lay at no great distance, and to their guard whichwas posted there. But when once they began to move off,the light-armed, growing more resolute and shouting louderthan ever, pressed hard upon their retreat; and whateverLacedaemonian fell within their reach, in the whole courseof the retreat, was instantly slaughtered. The bulk of themwith difficulty recovered the fort, and in concert with the