OCR Output , I. AN17QJJIT1ES Of THE JEWS. 115 " but to his own pleasure), we shall also ourselves be exposed to" his cruelty ; whereas we ought to be the means of confirming" the security and liberty of all, and at the same time to resolve«« to free ourselves from dangers." 7. Hereupon Clement openly commended Cherea's intentions;but bid him " hold his tongue ; for that in case his words" should get out among many, and such things should be spread'* abroad as were fit to be concealed, the plot would come to" be discovered before it was executed, and they should be" brought to punishment; but that they should leave all to" futurity, and the hope which thence arose, that some fortunate«' event would come to their assistance : that, as for himself, his" age would not permit him to make any attempt in that case." However, although perhaps I could suggest what may be" safer than what thou, Cherea, hast contrived and said, yet" how is it possible for any one to suggest what is more for" thy reputation ?" So Clement went his way home, withdeep reflections on what he had heard, and what he had himselfsaid. Cherea also was under a concern, and went quickly toCornelius Sabinus, who was himself one of the tribunes, andwhom he otherwise knew to be a worthy man, and a lover ofliberty, and on that account very uneasy at the present manage­ment of public affairs, he being desirous to come immediatelyto the execution of what had been determined, and thinking itright for him to propose it to the other, and afraid lest Clementshould discover them, and besides looking upon delays and put­tings off to be the next to desisting from the enterprise. 8. But as all was agreeable to Sabinus, who had himself,«qually with Cherea, the same design, but had been silent forwant of a person to whom he could safely communicate thatdesign, so having now met with one, who not only promised toconceal what he heard, but who had already opened his mindto him, he was much more encouraged, and desired of Cherea,that no delay might be made therein. Accordingly they wentto Minucianus, who was as virtuous a man, and as zealous todo glorious actions as themselves, and suspected by Cains onoccasion of the slaughter of Lepidus ; for Minucianus and Lepi-dus were intimate friends, and both in fear of the dangers thatthey were under; for Caius was terrible to all the great men,as appearing ready to act a mad part towards each of them inparticular, and towards all of them in general; and these menwere afraid of one another, while they were yet uneasy at theposture of affairs, but avoided to declare their mind and theirhatred against Caius to one another, out of fear of the dangersfhey might be in thereby, although they perceived by other P 2 means