OCR Output NOTES ON THE THIRTEENTH CHAPTER; Chroa. Paschal, p. 276. Procop. Hist. Arcan.c. 26. [50] John Antioch in Excerp. Valcfian, p. 834.Suidas in Diocletian. [51] See a short history and confutation ofAlchy-niy, in the works of that philosophical compiler,La Mothele Vaye, torn. i. p. 3Z7—353. set] Seethe education and strength of Tiridatesin the Armenian history of Moses of Chorene, 1. ii.c. 76. He could seize two wild bulls by the horns,and break them off with his hands. [53] If we give credit to the younger Victor,who supposes that, in the year 323, Licinius wasonly sixty years of age, he could scarcely be the sameperson, as the patron of Tiridates; but we knowfrom much better authority (Euseb. Hist. Ecclefiast.1. x. c 8.), that Licinius was at that time in thelast period of old age: sixteen years before, he is re­presented with grey hairs, and as the contemporaryof Galerius. See Lactant, c. 32. Licinius wasprobably born about the year 250. [54] See the sixty-second and sixty-third booksof Dion Caffius. [55] Moses of Chorene, Hist. Armen. 1. ii. c.74. The statues had been erected by Valarsaces,who reigned in Armenia about 130 years beforeChrist; was the first king of the family of Arsaces(see Moses Hist. Armen. 1. ii. 2, 3.). The deificationof the Arsacides is mentioned by Justin (xli. ;.) andby Ammianus Marcellinus (xxiii, 6.). [56] The Armenian nobility was numerous andpowerful. Moses mentions many families which weredistinguished under the reign of Valarsaces (1. ii. 7.)and which still subsisted in his own time, about themiddle of the fifth century. See the Preface of hisEditors. {57] She was named Chosroiduchta, and hadnot the ot patulvm like other women. (Hist. Armen.1. ii. c. 79.) I do not understand the expreflion. [58] Ib the Armenianiiistory (1. ii. 7S.), as wellas in the Geography (p. 367. J, China is called Zenia,or Zenastan. It is characterized by the productionof silk, by the opulence of the natives, and by theirlove of peace, above ajl the other nations of theearth- [59] Vou-ti, the first emperor of the seventhdynasty, who then reigned in China, had politicaltransactions with Fergana, a province of Sogdiana,and is said to have received a Roman embassy.(Histoire des Huns, torn. i. p. 38.) In those ageithe Chinese kept a garrison at Kathgar, and one oftheir generals, about the time of Trajan, marchedas far as the Caspian sea. With regard to the inter*course between China and the Western countries, acurious memoir of M. de Guignes may be con­sulted in the Academic des Inscriptions, torn. xxxiLP-35S* [60] See Hist. Armen. 1. ii. c. 81. [61] Ipsos PersasipfumqueRegera ascitis Saccis, etRuffis, et Gellis, petit frater Ormies. Panegyric.Vet. iii. 1. The Sacæ were a nation of wanderingScythians, who encamped towards the sources ofthe Oxus and the Jaxartes. The Gelli were the in­habitants of Ghilan along the Caspian sea, andwho so long, under the name of Dilemites, infestedthe Persian Monarchy. See d'Herbelot BibliotheqaeOrientate. [62] Moses of Chorene takes no notice of thissecond revolution, which I have been obliged to col­lect from a passage of Ammianus Marcellinus(I. xxiii. 5.). Lactantius speaks of the ambition ofNarses, " Concitatus domesticis exemplis avi suiSaporis ad occupandum orientem magnis copiis in-hiabat." De Mort. Persecut. c. 9. [63] We may readily believe, that Lactantiusascribes to cowardice the conduct of Diocletian.Julian, in his oration, fays, that he remained withall the forces of the empire; a very hyperbolicalexpression. [64] Our five abbreviates, Eutropius, Festns,the two Victors, and Orosius, all relate the last andgreat battle; but Orosius is the only one who speaksof the two former. [65] The nature of the country is finely describedby Plutarch, in the life of Crassus, and by Xeno-phon, in the first book of the Anabasis. [66] See Foster's Dissertation in the second Yolumeof the translation of the Anabasis by Spclman; which