OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 47$ out in the neighbourhood of Tripoli: the Greek coloniesof Cyrene were finally extirpated; and the conqueror, (treading in the footsteps of Alexander, returned in tri­umph through the sands of the Lybian desert. In the of Asiafirst campaign, another army advanced from the'Euphra- a!"d%i6,tes to the Thracian Bosphorus; Chalcedon surrendered &0-after a long siege, and a Persian camp was maintainedabove ten years in the presence of Constantinople. Thesea-coast of Pontus, the city of Ancyra, and the isle ofRhodes, are enumerated among the last conquests of thegreat king; and if Chosroes had possessed any maritimepower, his boundless ambition would have spread slaveryand desolation over the provinces of Europe. From the long disputed banks of the Tigris and Eur His reignphrates, the reign of the grandson of Nushirvan was Smoencl.suddenly extended to the Hellespont and. the Nile, theancient limits of the Persian monarchy. But the pro­vinces, which had been fashioned by the habits of sixhundred years to the virtues and vices of the Romangovernment, supported with reluctance the yoke of thebarbarians. The idea of a republic was kept alive by theinstitutions, or at least by the writings, of the Greeksand Romans, and the subjects of Heraclius had beeneducated to pronounce the words of liberty and law.But it has always been the pride and policy of orientalprinces, to display the titles and attributes of their om­nipotence; to upbraid a nation of slaves with their truename and abject condition, and to enforce, by cruel andinsolent threats, the rigour of their absolute commands.The Christians of the east were scandalized by the wor­ship of fire, and the impious doctrine of the two princi­ples ; the Magi were not less intolerant than the bishops,and the martyrdom of some native Persians, who haddeserted the religion of Zoroaster/ was conceived to be to Carthage instead of Chalcedon, is founded on the near resemblance of the Greekwords KaX^fiSeva and Ka^niova, in the text of Theophanes, ccc. which have beensometimes confounded by transcribers and sometimes by critics. r The genuine acts of St. Anastasius are published in those of the seventh generalcouncil, from whence Baronius (Annal. Eocles. A. D. Gil. 62G, 627.) and Butler 2 I 2