OCR Output B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 5247 used it as a garrison. But it was the scheme of Nicias, tofix the post of observation for the Athenians there, as beingmuch nearer situated, and to remove it from Budorus andSalamis. This would prevent the sudden courses of thePeloponnesians, frequent from thence; would curb the pi­ratical cruizers ; and, at the same time, stop all importationsinto Megara. Beginning therefore with the two forts de­tached from Nisaea, he took them by means of the engines heplayed against them from the sea; and having thus openedthe channel between them and the island, he took in by a wallof fortification that part of the main land from whence, onlyby crossing the morass and the help of a bridge, a succourcould be thrown into the island, which lay at a very smalldistance from the continent. This work was compleated ina few days, after which Nicias, leaving behind in the islanda-sufficient garrison to defend the works, drew off the rest ofhis army. About the same time this summer, the Plataeans, whoseprovisions were quite spent, and who could not possibly holdout any longer, were brought to a surrender in the following manner The enemy made an assault upon their wall, which they had not sufficient strength to repel. The Lace­demonian general being thus convinced of their languidcondition, was determined not to take the place by storm.In this he acted pursuant to orders sent him from Lacedae-mon, with a view, that whenever a peace should be conclu­ded with the Lacedaemonians, one certain condition of whichmust be reciprocally to restore the places taken in the war,Plataea might not be included in the restitution, as havingfreely and without compulsion gone over to them. A heraldis accordingly dispatched with this demand—" Whether they" are willing voluntarily to give up the city to the Lacedae-" monians, and accept them for their judges who would pun-" ish only the guilty, and contrary to forms of justice not" even one of those."—The herald made this demand aloud.And the Plataeans, who were now reduced to excessive weak­ness, delivered up the city.