OCR Output 78 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. imperial treasurer, a whole people, the manufacturers ofTyre arid Berytus, was reduced to extreme misery, andeither perished with hunger, or fled to the hostile domi­nions of Persia." A province might suffer by the decayof its manufactures; but in this example of silk, Proco-pius has partially overlooked the inestimable and lastingbenefit which the empire received from the curiosity ofJustinian. His addition of one-seventh to the ordinaryprice of copper-money may be interpreted with the samecandour; and the alteration, which might be wise, ap­pears to have been innocent; since he neither allayed thepurity, nor enhanced the value, of the gold coin,5 the legalVenality, measure of public and private payments. V. The amplejurisdiction, required by the farmers of the revenue toaccomplish their engagements, might be placed in anodious light, as if they had purchased from the emperorthe lives and fortunes of their fellow-citizens. And amore direct sale of honours and offices was transacted inthe palace, with the permission, or at least with the con­nivance, of Justiniah and Theodora. The claims ofmerit, even those of favour, were disregarded, and it wasalmost reasonable to expect, that the bold adventurer,who had undertaken the trade of a magistrate, shouldfind a rich compensation for infamy, labour, danger, thedebts which he had contracted, and the heavy interestwhich he paid. A sense of the disgrace and mischief ofthis venal practice, at length awakened the slumberingvirtue of Justinian; and he attempted, by the sanctionof oaths' and penalties, to guard the integrity of his go­vernment: but, at the end of a year of perjury, his rigo­rous edict was suspended, and corruption licentiously 'For an aureus, one-sixth of an ounce of gold, instead of two hundred and ten, hegave no more than one hundred and eighty folios, or ounces of copper. A dispropor­tion of the mint, below the market price,must have soon produced a scarcity of smallmoney. In England, twelve pence in copper would sell for no more than seven pence.(Smith's Inquiry into the Wealth of Nations, vol. 1. p. 49.) For Justinian's goldcoin, seo Evngrius. (lib. 4. c. 30.) i The oath is conceived in the most formidable words. (Novell. 8. tit. 3.) Thedefaulters imprecate on themselves, quicquid habent teloram armamentaria cceli; thepart of Judas, Hie heprosy of Gehazi the tremor of Cain, &c. besides all temporaltrains.