OCR Output 202 LOCRIS.L0CRIS. Tbrir northern frontier town was Alpeni, winchbordered upon the Malians, and their southern fron­tier town was Larymna, which at a later time be­longed to lioeotia. The Locrians, however, did notinhabit this coast continuous]/, but were separatedby a narrow slip of Phocis, which extended to theKuboean sea, and contained the Phocian seaporttown of Daphnus. The Locrians north of Daphnuswere called Kpicnomidii, from Mount Cnemis; andthose south of this town were named Opuntii, fromOpus, their principal city. On the west the Locrianswere separated from Phocis and Boeotia by a range ofmountains, extending from Mount Oeta and runningparallel to the coast. The northern part of thisrange, called Mount Cneinis (Strab. ix. pp. 416,425), now Tdlanda, rises to a considerable height,and separated the Epicnemidii Locri from the Pho-cians of the upper valley of the Cephissus; thesouthern portion, which bore no specific name, is notso lofty as Mount Cnemis, and separated the Opun-tian Locrians from the north-eastern parts of Boeotia.Lateral branches extended from thene mountains tothe coast, of which one terminated in the promontoryCnemides [Cnkmiiiks], opposite, the islands calledLichades; but there were several fruitful valleys,and the fertility of the whole of the Locrian coast ispraised both by ancient and modern observers.(Slrab. ix. p. 425; Korchhatnmer, Htllenika, pp. 11—12; Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. ii. p. 381.) Inconsequence of the proximity of the mountains tothe coast there was no room for any considerablerivers. The largest, which, however, is only amountain torrent, is the Boacku'S (Bodyptos),called also Manes (Mamfs) by Strata, rising inMount Cnemis, and Ho wing into the sea betweenScarpheia and Thronium. (Horn. //. ii. 533; Strab.ix. p. 426; Ptol. iii. 15. § 11; Piin. iv. 7. s. 12;Leake, Sorihern Greece, vol. ii. p. 67.) The onlyother river mentioned by name is the Pi-atanius(nKardvtos, Paus. ix. 24. § 5). a small stream,which Hows into the Opuntian gulf near the Boeotianfrontier: it is the river which flows from the modernvillage of Protlynd. (Leake, vol. ii. p. 174.) TheOpuntian gulf (6 'Oirovvrios k6\vos, Slrab. ix.pp. 416, 425, 42C), at the head of which stood thetown of Opus, is a considerable bay, shallow at itsinner extremity. In this bay, close to the coast, isthe small island of Atalanta. [Atalanta, No. I.] There are three important passes across the Locriumountains into Phocis. One leads from the territoryof the Epicnemidii, between the summits of MountCallidmrnus and Mount Cnemis, to Tithronum, inthe upper valley of the Cephissus; a second acrossMount Cnemis to the Phocian town of Klateia; anda third from Opus to Hyampolis. also a Phociantown, whence the rood ran to Abac and Orcho-inenos. The eastern Locrians. as we have already said,are mentioned by Homer, who describes them asfollowing Ajax, the son of Oileus, to the TrojanWar in forty ships, and as inhabiting the towns ofCynoa, Opus, Calliarus, Besa, Scarphe, Augetac,Tarphe, and Thronium. (/£ ii. 527—535.) NeitherHomer, Herodotus, Thucydides, nor Poly bins, makeany distinction between the Opuntii and Kpicne-inidii; and, during the nourishing period of Grecianhistory, Opus was regarded as the chief town of theeastern Locrians. Kvcn Strabo, from whom thedistinction is chiefly derived, in one place describesopus :i, the metropolis of the Kpicnemidii (ix.•\ 41G); and the same is confirmed by Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) and Stephanus (*. v. 'OadVtf; from Leaksvol. ii. p. 181). In the Persian War the OptimumLocrians fought with Leonidaa at Thermopylae, andalso sent seven Bhips to the Grecian fleet (Herod.vii. 203, viii. 1.) The Locrian* fought on the sideof Sparta in the Pelopnnnesian War. (Thnc. ii. 9.)The following is a list of the Locrian towns: —1. Of the Epicnemidii: along the coast from N. toS., Ai.pksus; Nicaea ; Scakmu or Scarthkxa;Tiikonr'm; Cnemis or Cnemides; more inhuv!.Tauphk, afterwards Phakyuae; Augeiak.—2.Of the Opuntii; along the coast from N. to SL,Alope; Cystcs; Opi'S; Halae; Lakymxa, whichat a later time belonged to Boeotia; more inland,Caluabus; Nakyx; Corseia. COIN OF THE LOCBI OPUNTII. II. Lociti Ozoi.ak ('OfoAoi). inhabited a dis­trict upon the Corinthian gulf, bounded on the northby Doris and Aetolia, on the east by Phocis, and onthe west by Aetolia. This district is mountainous,and for the most part unproductive. The declivitiesof Mount Parnassus from Phocis, and of M'-octCorax from Aetolia. occupy the greater part of it.The only river, of which the name is mentioned, isthe Hyi-aethcs, now the J/omo, which runs in asouth-westerly direction, and falls into the Corinthiangulf near Nan partus. The frontier of the LocriOzolae on the west was close to the promontoryAntirrhium, opposite the promontory Khiuin on ihmcoast of Achaia. Ant rrhium, which was in theterritory of the Locri, is spoken of elhewbere. [VoLI. p. 13.] The eastern frontier of Lorris. oa thecoa»t, was close to the Phocian town of Crissm; and(he Crissaean gulf washed on its western aide theLocrian, and on its eastern the Phocian coast. Theorigin of the name of Oxolae is uncertain. Yarioosetymologies were proposed by the ancients. (Pan*,x. 38. § 1, seq.) Some derived it from the verav^cif, ** to smell," either from the stench arisingfrom a spring at the foot of Mount Taphiasaoa, be*neath which the centaur Ncssus is said to have be*aburied, and which still retains this property («t.Slrab. ix. p. 427), or from the abundancv of aspho­del which scented the air. (Cf. Arciiytas. ap.PluL Quaett. Gram. 15.) Others derived it fromthe undressed skins which were worn by the anrirntinhabitants; and the Locrians themselves from thebranches (o(ot) of a vine which was pruduord intheir country in a marvellous manner. The LocriOzolae are said to have been a colony from theOpuntian Locrians. They first appear in history lathe time of the Peloponnesian War, as has been men­tioned above, when they are mentioned by Tbory-dides as a semi-barbarous nation, along with theAetolians and Acarnanians. whom they renemasa,in their armour and mode of fighting. (Tbac. i. 5,iii. 94.) In n. c. 426 the Locrians promised taassist Demosthenes, the Athenian commander, iahis invasion of Aetolia; but, after tbe oVfmt ««*Demosthenes, most of the Locrian tribes sohmitieU