OCR Output DISCOURSE III. lxi sive alliance with Corcyra. The war is renewed; and theAthenians send the Corcyreans a petty aid, which theyafterwards reinforce. Corcyra is secured, and all theprojects of the Corinthians are baffled, who are highly ex­asperated against the Athenians, and never will forgivethem. Another affair soon happens, to embroil them more, andto make the second pretext for a general war. Potidaea, atown in the Isthmus of the Pallene, was a Corinthian colony,but at this time tributary to the Athenians. Its situationbetween two bays, and amongst the Athenian colonies on thecoast of Thrace and Macedonia, would enable it to gall theAthenians sorely in case of a rupture. They order it there­fore to be dismantled. The Potidaeans refuse obedience, andrevolt. A war ensues. The Athenians attempt to reducePotidaea; and the Corinthians to support the revolt. It is atlength besieged by the former. The siege runs out into agreat length of time, and at last becomes one of the conside­rable events of the Peloponnesian war. The Corinthians, after this repeated provocation, are fullof resentments, and leave no stone unturned to stir up a ge­neral war in Greece. They were parties themselves in thePeloponnesian league, of which the Lacedaemonians werethe head. The Corinthians never set up for a leading State.They were ever content with the secondary rank, thoughthe first in that rank. Their turn was always more to com­merce than war. Commerce had long since made themrich ; riches had made them luxurious; and, though theyoften produced great and excellent soldiers, yet they neverpiqued themselves on being a martial or formidable people.Athens indeed they hated: Athens had rivalled them intrade, and very much abridged the extent of their commerce.One of the gulfs on which Corinth is seated, that of Sarone,was now intirely in the jurisdiction of the Athenians, whohad also begun to curb and straiten them much in the gulfof Crissa. They were consequently bent on the demolition