OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 379 piously discharged to some officers of distinguished chap.rank; but the indiscriminate vulgar was left unburied XXLon the plain. Their flesh was greedily devoured bythe birds of prey, who, in that age, enjoyed very fre­quent and delicious feasts: and several years after­wards the white and naked bones, which covered thewide extent of the fields, presented to the eyes ofAmmianus a dreadful monument of the battle ofSalices*. The progress of the Goths had been checked by Union ofthe doubtful event of that bloody day; and the Im-perial generals, whose army would have been con-^u™'Ala-sumed by the repetition of such a contest, embracedthe more rational plan, of destroying the Barbariansby the wants and pressure of their own multitudes.They prepared to confine the Visigoths in the nar­row angle of land, between the Danube, the desertof Scythia, and the mountains of Haemus, till theirstrength and spirit should be insensibly wasted by theinevitable operation of famine. The design was pro­secuted with some conduct and success; the Bar­barians had almost exhausted their own magazines,and the harvests of the country; and the diligenceof Saturninus, the master-general of the cavalry, wasemployed to improve the strength, and to contractthe extent, of the Roman fortifications. His labourswere interrupted by the alarming intelligence, thatnew swarms of Barbarians had passed the unguardedDanube, either to support the cause, or to imitate theexample, of Fritigern. The just apprehension, thathe himself might be surrounded, and overwhelmed,by the arms of hostile and unknown nations, com- * Indicant nunc usque albentes ossibus campi. Ammian. xxxi. 7.—The hi­storian might have viewed these plains, either as a soldier, or as a traveller. Buthis modesty has suppressed the adventures of his own life subsequent to the Per­sian wars of Constantius and Julian. We arc ignorant of the time when hequitted the service and retired to Rome, where he appears to have composed hisHistory of his own Times. /