OCR Output 164 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. this war had in fact revealed the utter nullity of the oppo­sition no less than it had divulged the corruption of thegovernment. It was not possible to govern worse than the117-109. restoration governed in the years 637-645; it was notpossible to be more defenceless and forlorn than was the109- senate in 645: had there been in Rome a real opposition,that is to say, a party which wished and urged a funda­mental alteration of the constitution, it must necessarilyhave now made at least an attempt to overturn the restoredsenate. No such attempt took place; the political questionwas converted into a personal one, the generals werechanged, and one or two useless and unimportant peoplewere banished. It was thus settled, that the so-called popu­lar party as such neither could nor would govern; that onlytwo forms of government were at all possible in Rome, atyrannis or an oligarchy; that, so long as there happenedto be nobody sufficiently well known, if not sufficiently im­portant, to usurp the regency of the state, the worst mis­management endangered at the most individual oligarchs,but never the oligarchy; that on the other hand, so soonas such a pretender appeared, nothing was easier than toshake the rotten curule chairs. In this respect the comingforward of Marius was significant, just because it was in itselfso utterly unwarranted. If the burgesses had stormed thesenate-house after the defeat of Albinus, it would havebeen natural, not to say proper; but after the turn whichMetellus had given to the Numidian war, nothing morecould be said of mismanagement, and still less of dangerto the commonwealth, at least in that respect: and yet thefirst ambitious officer who turned up succeeded in doingthat with which the older Africanus had once threatened thegovernment (ii. 358), and procured for himself one of theprincipal military commands against the distinctly expressedwill of the governing body. Public opinion, unavailing in thehands of the so-called popular party, became an irresistibleweapon in the hands of the future king of Rome. We donot mean to say that Marius intended to play the pretender,at least at the time when he canvassed the people for thesupreme command in Africa ; but, whether he did or did notunderstand what he was doing, there was evidently an endof the restored aristocratic government when tne < omitialmachine began to make generals, or, which was nearly thesame thing, when every popular officer was in a position to