OCR Output VALVA. 1257 VAKDUARA. iirectioni to competent persons to make an accuratesnd complete surrey of the whole line of the barrier,fnm sea to sea. Whether any results of this inves-li^tiun hare yet been published, we are nut aware. (X the identified stations the most extensive amirn;«runt are Vindobala, Cilurnum, Procolitia, andItirmricns. At the first, great numbers of coins and4in*r antiquities have l>een found. Tire fecond hastn vn of 8 acres, and is crowded with ruins of stonemildinp. A great part of the rampart of Procolitia* entire, and its northern face, which is funned ofa* main line of wall, is in excellent preservation.".rr.-vicuJE, however, surpasses all the other stationsnuuijrnitude and in the interest which attaches toi* rfmains. It is 15 acres in extent, besides a largeliiuid on the 8. Within it no less than 20 streetsmv 1* traced ; and it seems to have contained a>ric temple, port of a Doric capital and fragmentsI the shafts of columns having been discovered in it,~i<le* a great number of altars, inscriptions, and j•:ln*r antiquities. The remaining portions of this great fortificationr.ar be briefly described. 'I'lje Castkia.a, or mile-castles as they are called,ii account of being usually a Roman mile from oneanther, are buildings about GO or 70 feet square.*iiu two exceptions, they are placed against the) fare of the wall ; the exceptions, at Portgate and» ir Aesica, seem to have projected equally N. andv «t the wall. The castella have usually only one"-.trance, of very substantial masonry, in the centre■( the S. wall; bat the most perfect specimen of themww existing has a N. as well as a S. gate. Between each two castella there were four smallerm'ldings, called turrets or watch-towers, which were<:t!e more than stone sentry-boxes, about 3 feet thick,nd from 8 to 10 feet square in the inside. The line of the wall was completed by military•■ails, keeping up the communications with all itsJirt>and with the southern districts of the island. As■ipse were similar in theirconstruction to other Ko->a:i roads, it is not necessary to say more respectingo«n in this place. The following works contain detailed information'f-vpry kind connected with the Roman Wall :—I"i>lry a Britannia Homana; War burton's Vallum■ •numum, 4to. Loud. 1753; W. Mutton's Historyt the Roman Wall, 1801; Roy's Military Antiqui-» i ,f the Romans m Britain; the 3rd vol. of Hodg-n '* History of Xorthumberland; and last ly, The Ro-*na Wall; an Historical awl Topographical De-•-.-ifttion of the Barrier of the lower Isthmus, if-c.'"ittceri from numerous personal Surveys. Ity the.trr. J.C. Bruce, M. A., 2nd edit. Loud. 1853, 4to.!'!;!* work contains full descriptions of all the anti-intiea hitherto discovered along the line of the wall,nd great nnmbers of well executed engravings ofmost interesting objects, besides maps and plans4 the works. [J. R-] VALVA (OtoAowo, Ptol. iv. 2. § 16), a moun-tin in Mauretania Caesarien&is. [T. H. D.] VAMA (OCa^a, Plot ii. 4. § 15), a town of the-Vltiei in Hispania Baetica. [T. II. D.] VANCIAN1S. [Batiana.] VANDABANDA (Ofrai*a«dVoo, Ptol. tL 12.: 4), I district of Sogdiana, between the Mons mcasus (f/indu-Kush) and the I ma us (liimdlrh).it is probablv nearly the same as the present Ba-uikkskin (W'ilson, Ariana, p. 164). [Vr.] VANDALI, VANDALII, VINDILI, or VAN-i '1 1,1 (CWJaAei, BarSijAoi, toat>bi\oi), » powerful branch of the German nation, which, according toProcopius {Bell. Goth. i. 3). originally occupied thecountry about th» Pal us Maeotis, but afterwardsinhabited an extensive tract of country on thesouth coast of the Baltic, between the rivers Vistulaand Viadrus, where Pliny (iv. 28) mentions theBurgundiones as a tribe of tho Vinditi. At a some­what later period we find them in the count 17 northof Bohemia, about tho Riesengekirge. which derivedfn<m them the name of Vandaliri Montes (Ouar-5aAnca t>pn; Dion Cass. Iv. I.) In the great Mar-comannian war, they were allied with the Marco,manni, their southern neighbours, and in conjunctionwith them and the Quadi attacked Pannonia. (.Jul.Capitol. M. AureL 17: Eutrop. viii. 13; Vopisc.Prob. 18; Dexippns, Exc. de Leg. p. 12.) In thereign of Constantino they again appear in a differentcountry, having established themselves in Moravia,whence the emperor transplanted them into Pan­nonia (Jornand. Get. 22), and in tho reign ofProbus they also appear in Daeia. (Vopisc. /Yo6.38.) In A. D. 406, when most of the Roman troopshad been withdrawn trom Gaul, the Vandals, inconjunction with other German tribes, crossed theRhine and ravaged Gaul in all directions; and theirdevastations in that country and afterwards in Spainhave made their name synonymous with that ofsavage destroyers of what is beautiful and venerable.Three years later they established themselves in Spainunder their rhief Godigiselus. Here acain theyplundered and ravaged, among many other places,Nova Carthago and llispalis, together with thehnlrarian islands. At last, in A. D. 429, thewhole nation, under king Genseric, crossed over intoAfrica, whither they had been invited by Bonifacius,who hoped to avail himself of their assistanceagainst his calumniators. But when they wereonce in Africa, they refused to quit it Theynot only defeated Bonifacius, but made themselvesmasters of the whole province of Africa. This in­volved them in war with the Empire, during whichSicily and the coasts of Italy were at times tearfullyravaged. On one occasion, a. n. 455, Genseric andhis hordes took possession of Rome, which theyplundered and sacked for fourteen days. And notonly Rome, but other cities also, such as Capua andKola, were visited in a similar way by these bar­barians. Afterwards various attempts were madeto subdue or expel them, but without success, andtho kingdom of the Vandals maintained itself inAfrica for a period of 105 years, that is, downto a. d. 534, when Belisarius, tho general of theEastern Empire, succeeded in destroying theirpower, and recovered Africa for the Empire. Asto the nationality of the Vandals, most Germanwriters claim them for their nation (Zeuss, IHel)eutschen, p. 57; Wilhelm, Gtrmanien, p. 87);but Dr. Latham (on 'Vac. Epileg. p. Ixxxviii. foil.)and others prefer regarding them as a Slavonicpeople, though their arguments are chiefly of anetymological nature, which is not always a safeguide in historical inquiries. (Papencordt, Gesck.fler VandaL Herrsehaft in Africa, Berlin, 1837;Hansen, Wer veranlasste die Bervftmg der Vandalennach Africa? Dorpat, 1843; Friedlander, /HeMunzen der Vandalen, Leipzig, 1849.) [L. S.]VANDALICI MONTES. [Vawdau.]VANDUARA, or VANDOGARA {OiwZoiapa,Ptol. ii. 3. § 9), a town of the Damnonii in Bri­tannia Barbara. Now Paisley. (Cf. Camden, p.1214.) [T.H.D.]