OCR Output 186 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. tins, was sent from Rome against the Volsci, at the headof an army; because, as 1 imagine, they did not chooseit should become a precedent for the allies to carry onwar, upon their own footing only, without a Romangeneral at their head, and an army to support them.The Volsci were harassed with all the calamities of war,.and loaded with the most bitter reproaches; but neithercould induce them to risk an engagement. CHAP. LlV. A new check to the Tribunitian power. .L.j. Furius and C. Manlius succeeded to the consulate.The Vejentes fell to Manlius as his province; but thewar did not continue. At their request a truce for fortyyears was granted them, on condition of paying a yearlytribute, and a certain quantity of corn. Peace abroad only served to revive their contests athome. Spirited up by the tribunes, the people ragedabout the^. Agrarian law. The consuls, neither intimi足dated by the fate of Menenius, nor the danger of Ser-vilius, were equally keen in the opposition. As theywere retiring from office, they were even impeached byGenucius the tribune. In the consulate, they were succeeded by L. jEmilius,and Opiter Virginius, though some authors mentionVopiscus Julius instead of Virginius. But however thatbe, it is certain that Furius and Manlius were impeachedthat year, and went about in a miserable plight supplicat足ing the people; nor them only, for they were equallyassiduous and importunate with the younger senators,advising them by all means, " From thenceforth to re足nounce the honours and government of the state; andlook upon the fasces of the consuls, the praetexta, andcurule chair, as neither less nor more than the pompof their funerals; and that they were only adorned -with these ensigns of dignity, to be destined as victimsfor the altar. That supposing the consulship hadcharms to attract their attention, they ought to reflect,that it was now no .more than a name, the power ofthe tribunes having swallowed up and enervated its t足