OCR Output $44 ROMA. ROMA part of tlie building. (Dion Cass. L 10.) Au­gustus rebuilt the Pulrirtar, or place on which theimages of the gods were Uud, and erected the firstobelisk between the mttae. (.t/orc. Ancyr.\ Suet.Awj. 45; Plin. xxxvi. 14. s. 5) The side to­wards the Aventinc was again burnt in the reignof Tiberius. (Tac Ann. vi. 4a.) Claudius muchimproved the appearance of the circus by substi­tuting marble carceres for those of tufo, and metaeof gilt bronze for the previous ones of wood. Henlso appropriated certain seats to the senators.(Suet. Cloud. 21.) We have seen that the fire ofNero broke out iu the circus, whence it is naturalto conclude that it must have been completely de­stroyed. Vet it must have been soon restored, sinceNero caused his ridiculous triumphal procession topass through it, and hung his triumphal wreathsround the obelisk of Augustus. (Dion Cass, Ixiii.21.) The effects of another tire under Domitianwere repaired with the stone from his iMtimucIiia,and it was now, perhaps, that 12 carceres were firsterected. (Suet. Dom. 5, 7.) We read of anotherrestoration on a still more magnificent scale byTrajan. (Dion Cass, lviii. 7.) During the cele­bration of the Ludi Apollinares in the rsign of Anto­ninus Pius, some of the rows of scats fell in andkilled a large number of persons. (Capitol. Anton.P. 9; Catal. Imp. Yimn. ii. p. 244.) We knowbut little more of the history of the Circus Maximus.Constantino the Great appears to have made someimprovements (Aur. Vict. Cats. 40. § 27). and wehear 'if the games being celebrated there as late asthe Gth century. (Cassiod. Var. iii. 51.) Thecircus was used for other games besides the chariotraces, as lie Lndiu Trojae, Certamen Ct/mnicum.Vtuafio, Lndi ApoWnares^ Ac. The number ofpersons it was capable of accommodating is vari­ously stated. Pliny (xxxvi. 24. s. 1) states it at260,000. One codex of the Notitia mentions485,000, another 385,000 ; the latter number isprobably the more correct. (Preller, Rtgionen, p.191.) The circus seems to have been enlargedafter the time of Pliny, in the reign of Trajan. The &KCUS FlamXNIUS was founded in n. c.320 by the censor of that name. (Liv. Epit. ix.;Cass. Chron. p. 178.)' Wc have hut few noticesrespecting this circus, which lay under the Capito-line, with its carceres towards the hill, and its cir­cular end towards the river. The LntHPlebeU, andthose called Taurii, were celebrated here (Val. .Max.i. 7. § 4; Vurr. L.L. v. § 154), and Augustus af­forded in it the spectacle of a crocodile chase.(Dion Cass. lv. l(j.) It also served for meetings ofthe people, which had previously been held in thePraia Flaminia. (Liv. xxvii. 21; Cic. cul Att.i. 14.) We find no mention of the Circus Flaminhllafter the first century of our era; and in the earlypart of the 9th century it had been so completelyforgotten that the Anonymous of Kinsiedlen mistookthe j'iazza Navona for it. Vet remains of it aresaid to have existed till the 16th century, at thechurch of 5. Caterma <l? Funari and the PalnzzoMattel (And. Fulvio, Ant Urb. lib. iv. p. 2C4;Lucio Fanno, Ant. 0% Roma, iv. 23. p. 138.) What is sometimes called by modern topographersthe ClRCUS AGON A LIS, occupied, as we have said,the site of the Piazza Xarona. But the Ago-lurfia were certainly not celebrated with Circensiangames, and there are good reasons for doubtingwhether this was a circus at all. Its form, how­ever, shows that it was a place of the same kind, and hence Beckers conjecture s«m5 iubable (Handh. p. 670), that it was the Staifounded by Domitian. The Grecian foot-meibeen introduced at Rime long before thtof Domitian. Both Cae*ar and Aurastasbuilt temporary stadia in the Campa*(Suet. Cacs. 39; Dion Cass, liii. 1). tadseems to have constructed a more prnnaaefil(Suet. Dam. 5; Ca&siod. Ckron. t ii. p. 197.)are not indeed told that it was in the 0Martins, but this is the most probable pbetffiand the Notitia after mentioning the threeand the Odeum in the 9th Region names tht:It is also mentioned in conjunction with theby Ammianus Marcellinus (xvi. 10. § 14).discriminated from thecirci by Lampridratde circo, de theatro. de stadio—meretriea(Heli'tfj. 26.) In the middle ages it Mewsbeen called "Circus Alexandrines." an adoubtless derived from the neigbbourin*of Alexander Scvems. By the Anonymn* Esis it was confounded, as we have said, withC1IS FlaminiiLS. Putting this on one side, thereiore,circus, properly so called, founded atbe that which Caligula built in themother Agrippina in the Vatican. (40, xxxvi. 11; Suet. Claud. 11.) Fnwplace sub>e<|Uemly obtained the r.ar^ <: Cufl((Dion Cass. lix. 14), by which we find it ain the Xotitia. {R?g. xiv.) This circaaused by Nero, whence it commonlyname of Cmcrs Xekonis. (Plin. Lc;22; Tac. Ann. xiv. 14.) In the middlewas called Palatium Keronis. Some writersanother circus in this neighbourhood, whid(Irulic. p. 590) calls Circvs Hapkxasithe back of the mausoleum of that esptsflthis seems hardly probable. (Cf. Urlxba, aMu». vol. iii. p. 202 ) The chief pass*?**this assumption is founded is Procriplus, *eColh. ii. 1 (Preller, Rtgionen. p. 2 12). A fourth circus was that of MAXEVmQaHtwo miles on the Via Appia, near the ICaecilia Mctella. It nsed to be comroorJy at)to Caracalla; but an inscription do* ap imentions Romulus, the son of Miimtiaafriser. 1069); and this agrees with the/inp*;ratorum Vicnnensu. which a>crib»ing of a circus to M.ixentius (ii. p. 24This building is iu a tolerable state of pcthe spina is entire, and great |«rt of thawalls remains; so that the spectator canclear idea of the arrangements ofA complete description of it has t*enbv the Rev. Richard Burgess (Locdoo,1828.) The fifth and last of the circuses at R^eeJcan be assumed with certainty, t» the 4Hkmogabali, which lay near the AnfiCaatrense, outside the walls of Auretian.Rom. Topogr. p. 126, seq.; Becker,p. 81.) We have already said that thea Cmrus Florae in the 6th Rejrkc,invention; and that of a Cmcrs Salusame district, rests on no satisfactory Although theatrical entertaintnentadmvd at Rome at an early period, theno permanent theatre before (bePBlt, built in the secondB. c 55. (Veil. Pat. ii. 48; 1 *