OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 367 risprudence. The claims of property, as far as they arealtered, by the mixture, the division, or the transforma­tion of substances, are investigated with metaphysicalsubtlety by the same civilians. '', The personal title of the first proprietor must be de- orinherit-termined by his death: but the possession, without any suooessfon.appearance of change, is peaceably continued in his chil­dren, the associates of his toil and the partners of hiswealth. This natural inheritance has been protected bythe legislators of every climate and age, and the fatheris encouraged to persevere in slow and distant improve­ments, by the tender hope, that a long posterity will en­joy the fruits of his labour. The principle of hereditarysuccession is universal, but the order has been variouslyestablished by convenience oV caprice, by the spirit ofnational institutions, or by some partial example, whichwas originally decided by fraud or violence. The juris­prudence of the Romans appears to have deviated fromthe equality of nature, much less than the Jewish,* theAthenian,' or the English institutions.8 On the, deathof a citizen, all his descendants, unless they were alreadyfreed from his paternal power, were called to the inherit­ance of his possessions. The insolent prerogative ofprimogeniture was unknown : the two sexes were placedon a just level; all the sons and daughters were entitledto an equal portion of the patrimonial estate ; and if anyof the sons had been intercepted by a premature death,his person was represented, and his share was divided byhis surviving children. On the failure of the direct line,the right of succession must diverge to the collateral e Among the patriarchs, the first-born enjoyed a mystic and spiritual primogeni­ture. (Genesis, 25.31.) In the land of Canaan be was entitled to a double portion ofinheritance. (Deuteronomy, 41, 17. with La Clerc's judicious Commentary.) 'At Athens the sons were equal, but the poor daughters were endowed at the dis­cretion of their brothers. See the KMipixoi pleadings of Isssns (in the seventh volumeof the Greek Orators), illustrated by the version and comment of sir William Jones,a scholar, a lawyer, and a man of genius. I In England, the eldest son alone inherits all the land; a law, says the orthodoxjudge Blackstone, (Commentaries on the Laws of England, vol. 2. p. 215.) unjust onlyin the opinion of younger brothers. It may be of some political use in sharpeningtheir industry.