OCR Output 280 LIVY. had begun to advance towards the Colline gate, wasrecalled, and conducted to the circus, on its beingknown that the water had retired from thence. Itsown proper place being thus restored to this solemnexhibition gave much joy to the people, and addedconsiderably to the splendor of the games. 39. The consul Claudius, having at last set out fromthe city, was overtaken by a violent storm betweenthe ports of Cosa and Laureta, and brought into immi­nent danger; however, having got as far as Populonii,where he continued until a change of weather, he pro­ceeded to the island Ilva; from Ilva to Corsica, andfrom thence to Sardinia. There, as he was sailing bythe Mad Mountains, a still more furious tempest sur­prised him, and dispersed his fleet. Many ships weredamaged, and lost their rigging, and several werewrecked. In this harassed and shattered condition thefleet arrived at Carales, where the winter came onthem, while they were employed in docking and re­pairing the ships. Meanwhile the year coming to aconclusion, and it not being proposed to continue himin command, Tiberius Claudius, after he had ceasedto hold any public office, brought home the fleet.Marcus Servilius, having nominated Caius ServiliusGeminus dictator, lest he might be recalled on accountof the elections, set out for his province. The dictatornamed Publius jElius Paetus master of the horse.The elections, though many days were appointed forthe purpose, were still prevented by storms; so thatthe magistrates of the former year going out of office,on the day preceding the ides of March, and no suc­cessors being appointed, the state was without curulemagistrates. Lucius Manlius Torquatus, a pontiff,died that year; in his place was substituted CaiusSulpicius Gallia. The Roman games were thrice re­peated intire by the curule ediles, Lucius Licinius Lu-cullus and Quintus Fulvius. Some of the inferiorofficers belonging to the ediles, being convicted, on thetestimony of a discoverer, of having secretly conveyedmoney out of the treasury, were condemned, not with-