OCR Output 230 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. I told them, that it was best for them to act according to their de­termination ; whereupon they were prevailed on. At whichtime also, John, when the snares he had laid did not take effect,returned back to Gischala. GO. Now, in a few days those ambassadors whom he had sent,'came back again and informed us, that the people were greatlyprovoked at Ananus, and Simon, the son of Gamaliel, and theirfriends ; that, without any public determination, they had sent toGalilee' and had done their endeavours that I mitjht be turned otit ' O of the government. The ambassadors said farther, that the peoplewere ready to burn their houses. They also brought letters, where­by the chief men of Jerusalem, at the earnest petition of thepeople, confirmed me in the government of Galilee, and enjoinJonathan and his colleagues to return home quickly. When Ihad gotten these letters, I came to the village Arbela, where Iprocured an assembly of the Galileans to meet, and bid the am­bassadors declare to them the anger of the people of Jerusalemat what had been done by Jonathan and his colleagues, and howmuch they hated their wicked doings, and how they had con­firmed me in the government of their country, as also what re­lated to the order they had in writing for Jonathan and his col­leagues to return home. So I immedie.tely sent them the letter,and bid him that carried it to inquire, as well as lie could, howthey intended to act [on this occasion.] til. Now, when they had received that letter, and were there­by greatly disturbed, they sent for John, and for the senators ofTiberias, and for the principal men of the Gabarens, and propo­sed to hold a council, and desired them to consider what was to-be done by them. However, the governors of Tiberias weregreatly disposed to keep the government to themselves ; for theysaid it was not fit to desert their city, now it was committed tdtheir trust, and that otherwise I should not delay to fall uponthem ; for they pretended falsely that so I had threatened to do.Now John was not only of their opinion, but advised them, thattwo of them should go to accuse me before the multitude [at Je­rusalem], that I do not manage the affairs of Galilee as I ought'to do; and that they would easily persuade the people, because oftheir dignity, and because the whole multitude are very mutable.When, therefore, it appeared that John had suggested the wisestadvice to them, they resolved that two of them, Jonathan and A-nanias, should go to the people of Jerusalem, and the other two[Simon and Joazar] should be left behind to tarry at Tiberias.f They also took along with them an hundred soldiers for theirguard. 62. However, the governors of Tiberias took care to have their city