OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 75 the rebels in Ithome, and so raise them fresh embarrassments,give a dismission to them alone of their allies. They stroveindeed to conceal their suspicions, by alleging " they have nolonger any need of their assistance." The Athenians wereconvinced that their dismission was not owing to this moreplausible colour, but to some latent jealousy. They reckonedthemselves aggrieved: and thinking they had merited betterusage from the hands of the Lacedaemonians, were scarcelywithdrawn, than in open disregard to the league subsistingbetween them against the Mede ; they clapped up an alliancewith their old enemies the Argives: And in the same oathsand same alliance the Thessalians also were comprehendedwith them both. The rebels in Ithome, in the tenth year of the siege, un­able to hold out any longer, surrendered to the Lacedemo­nians on the following conditions—that " a term of securitybe allowed them to quit Peloponnesus, into which they shallnever return again; that if any one of them be ever foundthere, he should be made the slave of whoever apprehendedhim." The Pythian oracle had already warned the Lacedae­monians " to let go the suppliants of Jupiter Ithometes."The men therefore, with their wives and children, went outof Ithome, and gained a reception from the Athenians, whoacted now in enmity to the Lacedaemonians, and assignedthem Naupactus for th«ir residence, which they had latelytaken from the Locrians of Ozoli. The Megareans also deserted the Lacedaemonians, andwent over to the Athenian alliance, because the Corinthianshad warred upon them in pursuance of a dispute aboutsettling their frontier. Megara and Pegae were put into thehands of the Athenians, who built up for the Megareans thelong fva/lf that reach down, from Megara to Nisa;a, and tooktheir guard upon themselves. This was by no means theleast occasion of that violent enmity now beginning to arisebetween the Corinthians and Athenians. Inarus, the son of Psammetichus, a Libyan, and king of