OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE SOMAN EMPIRE. i$t Diocletian, thedecuries of Roman judges had sunk to anempty title; the humble advice of the assessors might beaccepted or despised; and in each tribunal the civil and cri­minal jurisdiction was administered by a single magistrate,who was raised and disgraced by the will of the emperor. A Roman accused of any capital crime might prevent voluntarythe sentence of the law by voluntary exile, or death, death.8'"1Till his guilt had been legally proved, his innocence waspresumed, and his person was free; till the votes of thelast century had been counted and declared, he mightpeaceably secede to any of the allied cities of Italy, orGreece, or Asia.™ His fame and fortunes were preserv­ed, at least to his children, by this civil death; and hemight still be happy in every rational and sensual enjoy­ment, if a mind accustomed to the ambitious tumult ofRomecould support the uniformity and silence of Rhodesor Athens. A bolder effort was required to escape fromthe tyranny of the Caesars; but this effort was renderedfamiliar by the maxims of the Stoics, the examples ofthe bravest Romans, and the legal encouragements ofsuicide. The bodies of condemned criminals were ex­posed to public ignominy, and their children, a moreserious evil, were reduced to poverty by the confiscationof their fortunes. But if the victims of Tiberius andNero anticipated the decree of the prince or senate, theircourage and dispatch were recompensed by the applauseof the public, the decent honours of burial, and the vali­dity of their testaments/ The exquisite avarice andcruelty of Domitian appear to have deprived the unfor­tunate of this last consolation, and it was still denied evenby the clemency of the Antonines. A voluntary death,which, in the case of a capital offence, intervened be­tween the accusation and the sentence, was admitted as,a confession of guilt, and the spoils of the deceased were "Polyb. lib. 6. p. 643. The extension of the empire and city of Rome, obliged theexile to seek a more distant place of retirement. * Qui de se statuehant, humahantur corpora, manebant testamenta; pretimu fes-linandi. Tacit. Annal. 6. lb. with the notes of Lipsi'us.