OCR Output 4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. planted himself with colonies, having expelled the Carians,and substituted his own sons in their different commands.And then of course he exerted his utmost power to clearthat sea of pirates, for the more secure conveyance of hisown tributes. The Grecja£s_ formerly, as well as those Barbarians who,though seated on the continent, lived upon the coast, andall the islanders, when once they had learned the method ofpassing to and fro in their vessels, soon took up the businessof j>iracy under the command of persons of the greatestability amongst them, for the sake of enriching such adven­turers and subsisting their poor. They landed, and plun­dered by surprise unfortified places and scattered villages,and from hence they principally gained a subsistence. Thiswas by no means at that time an employment of reproach,but rather an instrument of glory. Some people of the con­tinent are even to this day a proof of this, who still attri­bute honour to such exploits if genteelly* performed: soalso are the ancient poets, in whom those that sail along thecoasts are every where equally accosted with this question,Whether they are pirates ? as if neither they to whom thequestion was put would disown their employment, nor theywho are desirous to be informed would reproach them withit. The people of the continent also exercised robberiesupon one another, and to this very day many people ofGreece are supported by the same practices ; for instance,the Ozolian Locrians, and ./Etolians, and Acarnanians, andtheir neighbours on the continent: and the custom of wearingtheir weapons, introduced by this old life of rapine, is still re­tained amongst them. The custom of wearing weapons once prevailed all overGreece, as their houses had no manner of defence, as tra­velling was full of hazard, and their whole lives were passed • " With due respect, with humanity," as the scholiast explains it. Forthen they never made booty of, or carried away by stealth the labouringcattle: They never made their attacks by night, nor committed any mur.der.