OCR Output 22 COLD RINGS. stated in certain annals, that it was the noblility alone who threwoff their rings, and not the whole senate. This transaction tookplace in the consulship of P. Sempronius and P. Sulpitius. Fla-vius vowed that he would erect a temple to Concord if he couldreconcile the privileged orders to the people. And because thepublic money could not be decreed for this purpose, he employedthe fines which were levied on usurers, and with these he built asmall brazen temple in the Graecostasis,3 which was then abovethe court-house; and it was engraven on a bronze tablet, that thistemple was consecrated 204 years after the Capitol. It was,therefore, 449 years after the foundation of the city that thisevent occurred, and that we have the first trace of the use of rings.In the second Punic war, we have another notice of their verygeneral use; for, unless this had been the case, the three bushelscould not have been sent to Carthage by Hannibal. The quar­rel between Caepio and Drusus began in consequence of the pub­lic sale of a ring; whence sprung the social war, and the ruin ofthe commonwealth. Gold rings were not, however, worn at thattime by all the senators, for it is in the memory of our grand­fathers, that many, even of those who had filled the office ofpraetor, wore iron rings during all their lives, as was the case withCalpurnius and Manilius, which latter, according to the accountof Fenestella, was the lieutenant-general of C. Marius in theJugurthine war; and the same thing is said by many concerningL. Fusidius, he to whom Scaurus dedicated the account of hisown life. It was an established custom in the family of theQuintii that not even the women should wear gold; and thegreater part, both of nations and individuals, even of those wholive under our empire, have no rings at all. Neither the Orientalsnor the Egyptians employ seals, being satisfied with merely sign­ing their names.* The French translator employs the term " collier," and Durand, in the trans­lation, or rather paraphrase, of this part of Pliny, which forms the com­mencement of his "Histoire Naturelle de l'Or et de 1'Argent," calls it"un ornement de cou;" but I am not aware of any foundation for this ap­plication of the word. 3 This, we are informed, was a public hotel, where formerly the GreekAmbassadors were received, and which was afterwards appropriated to thereception of ambassadors generally. See Varro de Ling. Lat. p. 43. 4 This remark, among many others, proves that the principal use of therings was as seals or signets.