OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK. VIII. 'J I punishment, as were the Campanian horsemen, he-cause they had not joined in the revolt. An order wasmade that the treaty should be renewed with the Lau-rentians, and from that time this has been annuallydone on the tenth day after the Latine festival. Theprivileges of citizens were granted to the Campanianhorsemen ; and as a monument thereof they hung up atablet in the temple of Castor at Rome. The peopleof Campania were also enjoined to pay them a yearlystipend of four hundred and fifty denarii1 each ; theirnumber amounted to one thousand six hundred. 12. The war being thus brought to a conclusion,Titus Manlius, after distributing rewards and punish­ments, according to the merits and demerits of each,returned to Rome. On his arrival there, it appearedthat none but the aged came out to meet him, and thatthe young, both then and during the whole of his life,detested and cursed him. The Antians, having madeinroads on the territories of Ostia, Ardea, and Solonia,the consul Manlius, unable on account of the ill stateof his health to act against them in person, nominateddictator Lucius Papirius Crassus, who happened at thetime to be pretor, and he constituted Lucius PapiriusCursor master of the horse. Nothing worth mentionwas performed against the Antians by the dictator, al­though he kept his army in a fixed camp in the terri­tory of Antium during several months. To this year,which was signalised by conquest over so many andsuch powerful nations, and besides, by the gloriousdeath of one of the consuls, and the other's unrelent­ing severity in command, by which he has been ren­dered for ever memorable, succeeded, as consuls, Ti­berius jEmilius Mamerrinus and Quintus PubliliusPhilo, [A.U.C. 416. B.C. 336] who found not equalopportunity for the display of abilities ; and were, be­sides, more attentive to their private interests, and theparties which divided the state, than to the publicgood. The Latines taking arms again, out of resent- » 141.10s. 7\d.