OCR Output 20 x ANTIQJIITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVII. out of suspicion of any danger they were in ; but they spakewhat they knew, because they thought such actions very wick­ed, and that Antipater deserved the greatest punishment; andindeed not so much for Herod's safety, as on account of theman's own wickedness. Many things were also said, that thoseby a great number of persons, who were no way obliged to saythem; insomuch, that Antipater, who used generally to be veryshrewd in his lies and impudence, was not able to say oneword to the contrary. When Nicolaus had left off speaking,and had produced the evidence, Varus bid Antipater to betakehimself to tlie making his defence, if he had prepared any thingwhereby it might appear that he was not guilty of the crimeshe was accused of; for that, as he was himself desirous, so didhe know that his father was in like manner desirous also, to havehim found entirely innocent. But Antipater fell down on hisface, and appealed to God, and to all men, for testimonials ofhis innocency, desiring that God would declare, by some evidentsignals, that he had not laid any plot against his father. Thisbeing the usual method of all men destitute of virtue, that,when they set about any wicked undertakings, they fall to workaccording to their own inclinations, as if they believed that Godwas unconcerred in human affairs ; but when once they are foundout, and are in danger of undergoing the punishment due to theircrimes, they endeavour to overthrow all the evidence againstthem, by appealing to God ; which was the very thing whichAntipater now did ; for whereas he had done every thing as ifthere were no God in the world, when he was on all sides dis­tressed by justice, and when he had no other advantage to ex­pect from any legal proofs, by which he might disprove the ac.cusations laid against him, be impudently abused the majesty ofGod, and ascribed it to his power, that he had been preservedhitherto ; and produced before them all what difficulties he hadever undergone in his bold acting for his father's preservation. 7. So when Varus, upon Asking Antipater what he had tosay for himself, found that he had nothing to say besides his ap­peal to God, and saw that there was no end of that, he bid thembring the potion before the court, that he might see what vir­tue still remained in it; and when it was brought, and one thatwas condemned to die had drunk it by Varus's command, hedied presently. Then Varus got up, and departed out of thecourt, and went away the day following to Antioch, where hisu iual residence was, because that was the palace of the Syrians ;u^on which Herod laid his son in bonds. But.what were Va-^ r'as's discourses to Herod, was not known to the generality, andupon what ivords it was that he went away ; though it was also