OCR Output THAUMACIA. 1137 THEBAE AEGTPTI. by Philip in n. c. 199; but a reinforcementArtoiians having made their way into the town,i king was obliged to abandon the siege. (Liv.xii. 4.) Thaumaci was taken by the consul-liim in tlie war with Antiochus, n. c. 191. (Liv.ni. 14; comp. Strab. ix. p. 434; Steph. B. s. v.ivuxlo.) Dhomoko occupies the site of Thau-ci, and at this place inscriptions are found eon-'-jne the ancient name. Its situation and prospectin exact accordance with the description of Livv, > >s>pird from Polybius, an eye-witness. Dodwelll that '* the view fi-om this place is the most>l'rftil and extensive he ever beheld," and Leakefrv>» that "at the southern end of the town a1? pr«nt, overtopping the other heights, commandstif uificent prospect of the immense plain wateredtie Peoeius aud its branches." (IXidwell, vol.i 122: Leake, jVorfAoti Greece, vol. i. p. 458.) H AUMA'CIA (eauficutia: Elh. Baii/uutieot), a■i uf Magnesia in Thessaly. one of the four citiesship* in the Trojan War were commanded bybrut**. It waa said to bare been founded byI'.inarus, the aon of Poeas. Leake supposes it * "-presented by the paleoaastro of Atktti, onei« ullages on the Magnesian coast This Thau-u moat twt be confounded with Thaumaci inaiuus mentioned above. (Horn. //. ii. 716;k. ix. p. 436; Steph. B. s. v.; Eustath. adt. p. 329. 6; Pun. iv. 9. a. 16; Leake, Northerntee, vol. iv. p. 416.) HEA'NGELA {Btiyyt\a: F.th. B<ayy<\( i>t), • a of Caris, which Alexander placed under the■-J urn of llalicamassus, is known as the birth-i of Philip, the historian of Caria. (Plin. v.Atnea. tL p. 271; Steph. B. ». r.) IIKBAE (SqCai. Herod, i. 182, ii. 42 ; Strab.pp. 805,815, foil.; Thebc, Plin. v.9.s. 11), theHulntl, xxx. 14) or No-AHMOS (.Vovium, vv.■■f tlie Hebrew Scriptures; at a later period Dlos-tt the Great of the Greeks and Romans ( AoSa.. uryiAl. Ptol. iv. 5. § 73; Steph. B. ». ».),«of the most ancient cities of Aegypt, and even,ituig to Diodorua (i. 50, comp. xv. 45), of theL Its foundation, like that of Memphis, waa at-to Menea, the first mortal king of Aegypt,: went bark to the mythical period of Aegvptianry. By some writers, however, Memphis waslad to hare been a colony of Thebes. It waacapital of the Dome formed by the city itselfenvirons, though Ptolemy (/. c.) describes itruitiiig to the Nome of Coptos. In all Upper■j* no spot is so adapted for the site of a greatu as tlie plain occupied by ancient Thebes.a i*jntaixi chains, the Libyan on the western,: • Arabian on the eastern, side of the Nile, > boldly from the river, and leave on both banks•. ti* area, whoee breadth, including the river,a1* to Dearly 4 leagues, and the length from N.u nearly «s much. Towards the N. the plainaia closed in by the return of the hills to the tut on the S., where the western chain con-t distant, it remains open. The ground, there­in which Thebes stood was large enough to--j a city of at least equal extent with ancient■ or modern Paris; and, according to Strabo,at Thebes covered the entire plain. Only awi of H, however, was available for population. ■irimc are* waa covered with the temples and«Tenues of sphinxes; and on the western side,r u the Libyan hills, lay the monuments of theOa the eastern bank, therefore, the population was generally collected; and there it was probablydensely crowded, since ancient writers assign to Thebesan almost incredible number of inhabitants, andDiodorus (L 45) describes the houses as consistingof many stories. The extent of the city is verydifferently stated by ancient authors. Kumours ofits greatness had reached the Greeks of Homer's age,who (//. ix. 381) apeaks of its "hundred gates''and its 20,000 war-chariots, just as the Arabianstory-tellers speak of the glories of Bagdad or Da­mascus under the Caliphs. Before the Persian in­vasion (n.c. 525) no Greek writer had visitedThebes; and after that catastrophe its dimensionshad considerably shrunk, since Cambyses is said tohave burnt all such portions of Thebes as fire woulddestroy, i. e. all the private buildings; and underthe Persian viceroys no Aegvptian city was likelyto regain its original proportions. It does not appearthat Herodotus ever visited Upper Egypt, and hisAccount of Thebes is extremely vague and meagre.Diodorus, on the contrary, who saw it after itscapture by Ptolemy Lathyrus, about B. c. 87, be­held Thebes in the second period of its decay, andafter Alexandria had diverted much of its comtneri eto Berenice and the Arsinoitc bay. He estimates itscircuit at 140 stadia or about 17 miles. Strabo,again, who went thither with the expedition ofAelius Gallns in B.C. 24, beheld Thebes at a stilllower stage of decadence, and assigns it a compassof about 10 miles. But at that time the continuityof its parts was broken up, and it was divided intocertain large hamlets (aaifi^Sor) detached from oneanother. Neither of these writers, accordingly, waain a position to state accurately the real dimensionsof the city in its flourishing estate, i. e. between1600 and 800 n. c Modern travellers, again, havestill further reduced its extent; fur example, SirGardner Wilkinson supposes the area of Thebes notto have exceeded 5} English miles. As, however,during the space of 2600 years (800 B.C.—1800A.D.) there have been very material changes in thesoil from the contraction of the habitable ground,partly by the depositions of the Nile, and partlyby the drifting of the sands, it is scarcely pos­sible for modem travellers to determine how farAegvptian labour and art may once have extendedtheir capital. An author quoted by Stephanus ofByzantium, probably Uecataeus, runs into the oppo­site extreme, and ascribes to Thebes a population(7,000,1)00) hardly possible for the entire Nile-valley, and an extent (400 stadia, or 50 miles)larger than the Thebau plain itself. (Steph. B. t r.AioViroAir) The name of Thebes is formed fromthe Tape" of the ancient Aegvptian language, pro­nounced Thalia in the Memplutic dialect of Cojitic,and thence easily converted into ftqSai, Thebu, orThebes. In hieroglyphics it is written Ar or Ai'K,with the feminine article, t-apk, the meaning ofwhich is said to lie " head," Thebes being the " head"or capital of the Upper Kingdom. Its later appel­lation of Diospol'u Magna (AkSottoAji i fM-vdAi))answers also to the Aegvptian title Amunei or"abode of Anion,"—Amnion or Zeus, the rani-heade.lgod, being the principal object of worship at Thelie*.The name Tape or Thebes applied to the entire cityon cither hank of the Nile: but the western quarterhail the distinctive name of Pathyrls, or, acconnngto Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 69), Talhyris, as being under thesjiecial protection of Athor, who is sometimes calledthe President of the West. The necropolis, indeed,on the Libvan side was appropriately placed under 4 o