OCR Output YERODUNUM. 1279 VERONA. ritiogs it is Viredunum, Viridunnm, and Virdu-oro. which but abbreviated form comes nearest to'erdm, which is the capital of the Yerodunenses."m/isi is west of Metz, in the department oflean, and on the Meute or Moot. There was alire named Fines [Fines, No. 13] between Virodu-nm and Divodurum, which probably marked the nit between the Yerodnnenses and the Medioma-ici [G. L.] VF.RODUNUM. [Yeroduskksks.] VKROLA'MIUM and VERULA'MIUM (OJaoXd-u>», Flu], ii. 3. § 21), the capital of the Catyench-mi in Britannia Romana, on the rnad from Lon-iriium to Lindum and Eboracntn. (Itin.Ant.pp.471,76, 479.) It was probably the residence of Cassi-ellaunus, which was taken by Caesar (B. Gall. v.1), and subsequently became a considerable Romanmuicipiam, ( lac. Am. xiv. 33.) It is Old Ve-ilam, near St Alban't, in Hertfordshire, whichitlfr towu rose from its ruins; and its celebratedlitwy church is said to be built in great part ofioisn bricks. (Camden, p. 350, se<].) [T. H. D.] YEROMANDUI (OitpopivSvti, Puil. iU. 9. § 11), Belgic people, who in u.c. 57 were supposedi be able to raise 10,000 fighting men (Caesar, B.'ii. 4); unless Caesar's text means that they andlie Vel rasses together mustered this number [Ve-ocasses]. They joined the Nervii and the Atre-atw in the attack on Caesar's army on the Sabis.SuiMone). The Yeromandui attacked the eleventhnd eighth legions, which were in Caesar's centre,od they were driven back to the river. They are<it mentioned again in the Commentaries. The Yeromandui had the Ambiani and theitrebates on the west, and the Suessinnes on thewith. On the north they were neighbours of thefervfi. Their chief town was afterwards Augustatrumanduorum, St. Qumtin, on the Somme, in therpsrlxnent of Aitne, and in the old division ofnuice named Vermandou. The name Civitas Ve-xiunduoruin occurs in the Nrtitis of the GallicWinces. [Augusta Viromaxduokum.] [G.L.] VKKOMETUM, a town of the Coritaui in Bri-iimia Roman a, between ltatae and Margidunum.I tut. AnL pp. 477, 479, where it is also calledernometum.) Camden (p. 575) places it at Bur-uugh l/ili, near WilUmgkby on the Wvld, in the S.art of Xottingkanuhire. [T. H. D.] VERONA (OWipwra, Ptol. iii. 1. § 31 ; BHipuy,trab. hr. p. 206, v. p. 21,'];B<puKi)t Procop. B.G. ii.9, iii. 3, &c; and Bepura, lb. iv. 33: Kth. Vero-ensia: Verona), an important town in Galliaranspadana, seated on the river Athesis (" VeronaLlheai circumflua," Sil. It. viii. 595), and chieflyn its VV. bank. There is some difficulty in deter-liuiug whether Verona was a city of the Euganeir of the Cenomani, frofh the little knowledge whiche possess of the respective boundaries of those■-"pies, and from the confusion which prevails uponi« subject in ancient authors. By Ptolemy (i. c),bo does not mention the Euganei, it is ascribed tout< Cenomani; and Catullus (Ixvii. 34), in a passage,owever, which has been banished by some editors asA genuine, Brixia, which undoubtedly belonged tolie Cenomani, it styled the mother city of Verona,'liny, on the other hand (iii. 19. s. 23), gives Veronaartly to the Uhaeti and partly to the Euganei, andiUabo(/. c.) attributes it to the former. Some haver>ught a solution of this difficulty by assuming thatlie city belonged originally to the Euganei, but wasuWequcatly occupied by the Cenomani, referring to Livy, v. 35. (Cf. Justin, xi. 5.) \Ve know littleor nothing of the early history of Verona. Underthe Roman dominion it became a colony with thesurname of Augusta, and one of the finest and mostflourishing cities in that part of Italy (Tac. 77. iii. 8;/tin. Ant. p. 128; Strab. v. p. 213; Grut. Inter.p. 166. 2.) The surrounding country was exceed­ingly fruitful, producing good wine, excellent apples,and abundance of spelt (alica, Plin. xviii. II.s. 29, xiv. 1. s. 3, xv. 14. s. 14; Casaiod. Var.xii. 4). The Rhaetian wine also is praised by Virgil.(G. ii. 94; cf. Strab. iv. 206; Suet. Oct. 77.) Thesituation of Verona rendered it a great thoroughfareand the centre of several highroads (/fin. Ant. pp.128, 174, 275, 282; /tin. Ilier. p. 558.) Verona was celebrated in history for the battlefought by Marius in the Campi Raudii, in itsneighbourhood,againlthe Cimbri. (Veil. Pat. ii. 12;Florus, iii. 3.) From an inscription still extant onone of its gates, now called the Porta oV Bor$ari,the walls of Veroua appear to have been newlyerected in the rei^-n of the emperor Gulllenus, A. I>.265. It was besieged by Constantine on bis marchfrom Gaul to Rome, and, though obstinately defendedby Ruricius Pompeianus, obliged to surrender at dis­cretion. (Paneg. Vet. ix. 9, sqq.) It was likewisethe scene of the victory of Theodoric over Odoacei.(Jomand. Get 57.) Theodoric made it one of bisresidences, and often held his court there: a repre­sentation of his palace is still extant upon a seal.(Gibbon, JMcl and Fall, vol. v. p. 22, ed. Smith.)It was at Verona that the splendid wedding tookplace between king Antharis and Theudelinda.(Procop. B. G. iii. 5; Paul. Disc. iii. 29.) But,more than by all these events, Verona is illustriousas having been the birthplace of Catullus (Ovid.Amor. iii. 15. 7; Mart. x. 103; Plin. xxxvi, 6. a. 7);though it is exceedingly doubtful whether the re­mains of a villa on the Ixigo di Garda, commonlycalled the villa of Catullus, could really have be­longed to him. The honour sometimes claimed forVerona of having given birth to the architect Vi-truvius Pollio arises from a mistaken interpretationof the inscription on the arch of the Gavii, formerlyexisting at Verona, but pulled down in the year 1805.The inscription related to the great architect's lesscelebrated namesake, Yitruvius Cerdo. (Jfeicriz. diVerona, pt. i. p. 86.) Some are of opinion that theelder Pliny also was born at Verona, but it is moreprobable that he was a native of Comum. In thelife of him ascribed to the pen of Suetonius, he isstyled Novocomensis; and when he calls himself inhis Preface the conterraneut of Catullus, that epi­thet by no means necessarily implies that he was thefellow-citizen of the poet, but rather that he wusmerely his fellow-countryman, or from the sameprovince. The amphitheatre at Verona is a very strikingmonument of antiquity. Although not nearly solarge as the Colosseum, it is in a much better stateof preservation, owing to the pains which have al­ways been taken to keep it in repair. It is also ofa more costly material than the Roman amphitheatre;for whilst the latter is built of traeertino, that atVerona is of marble, from some quarries in the neigh­bourhood. The substructions are of Roman brick­work. The date of its erection cannot be ascer­tained, but it must undoubtedly have been posteriorto the time of Augustus. A great part of the ex­ternal arcade was thrown down by an earthquake inthe year 1184. Its form is elliptical, the larger