OCR Output 276 [book vih. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to the place where the king abode at thattime. Now the sagacity and wisdom which Godhad bestowed on Solomon was so great, thathe exceeded the ancients: insomuch that hewas no way inferior to the Egyptians, who aresaid to have been beyond all men in under­standing; nay indeed it is evident that theirsagacity was very much inferior to that ofthe king's. He also distinguished himself inwisdom above those who were most eminentamong the Hebrews at that time for shrewd­ness. Those I mean were Ethan, Heman,Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. Healso composed books of Odes, and Songs, innumber a thousand and five; and of Parablesand Similitudes three thousand. For he spakea parable upon every sort of tree, from thehyssop to the cedar: and in like manner alsoabout beasts, about all sorts of living crea­tures,* whether upon the earth, or in the seas,or in the air. For he was not unacquaintedwith any of their natures; nor omitted in­quiries about them; but described them alllike a philosopher, and demonstrated his ex­quisite knowledge of their several properties.God also enabled him to learn that skill whichexpels demons,f which is a useful science tomen. He composed such incantations alsoby which distempers are alleviated; and leftbehind him the manner of using exorcisms,by which they drive away demons; so thatthey never return, and this method of cureis of great force until this day. For I have seen a certain man of my own country,whose name was Eleazar, releasing thepeople that were demoniacal in the pre­sence of Vespasian, and his sons, and hiscaptains, and the multitude of his soldiers:and the manner of the cure was this; heput a ring that had a root of one of thosesorts mentioned by Solomon to the nostrilsof the demoniac, after which he drew outthe demon through his nostrils: and whenthe man fell down, he adjured him to returninto him no more; making still mention ofSolomon, and reciting the incantations whichhe composed. And when Eleazar would de­monstrate to the spectators, that he had sucha power, he set a little way offa cup or basonfull of water, and commanded the demon, ashe went out of the man, to overturn it: andthereby let the spectators know that he hadleft the man. And when this was done, theskill and wisdom of Solomon was shewn verymanifestly. For which reason it is that allmen may know the vastness of Solomon'sabilities, and how he was beloved of God,and that the extraordinary virtues of everykind with which this king was endowed maynot be unknown to any people under thesun; for this reason, I say, it is that we haveproceeded to speak so largely of these mat­ters. Now Hiram, king of Tyre, when he heardthat Solomon succeeded to his father's king­dom, was very glad, for he was a friend ofDavid's. So he sent ambassadors to him, * The several books which treated of the nature andvirtue of animals, as well as plants, are supposed to havebeen lost in the Babylonish captivity; but Eusebius, ashe is quoted by Anastatius, informs us, that king He-zekiah, seeing the abuse which his subjects made ofSolomon's works, by placing too much confidence inremedies which he prescribed, and the natural secretswhich he discovered, thought proper to suppress themall. Notwithstanding this, since his time, many books,concerning the secrets of magic, medicine, and enchant­ments, have appeared under the name of this prince; andseveral pieces have been quoted, such as The Instructionsof Solomon to his son Rehoboam; The Testament of Solo­mon; The Books of the Throne of Solomon; The Booksof Magic, composed by the demons, under the name ofSolomon; The Clavicula, or Key of Solomon; The Ringof Solomon; the Contradiction of Solomon, &c. whichwere most of them very wicked and pernicious tracts, towhich the authors prefixed this great name to give themcredit and sanction. It is somewhat strange, however,that Josephus should inform us, that Solomon composedbooks of enchantments, and several manners of exorcisms,or of driving away devils, so that they could return no more; and that he should farther assure us, that himselfhad seen experiments of it by one Eleazar, a Jew, who,in the presence of Vespasian, his sons, and the officers ofhis army, cured several that were possessed. JewishAntiq. lib. 8. c. 2. Calmef s Dictionary, under the wordSolomon. B. t Some pretended fragments of these books of conjura­tions of Solomon are still extant in Fabricius's Cod. Pseu-depigr. Vet. Test, page 1054. Though I entirely differfrom Josephus, in this opinion, that such books and artsof Solomon were parts of that wisdom which was impartedto him by God in his younger days. They must ratherhave belonged to such profane but curious arts as we find,mentioned, Acts xix. 13, 20. and had been derived fromthe idolatry and superstition of heathen wives and concu­bines, in his old age; when he had forsaken God, andGod had forsaken him, and given him up to demoniacaldelusions. Nor does Josephus's strange account of theroot Baara, Of the war, VII. 6, seem to be other thanthat of its magical use in such conjurations. As for thefollowing history it confirms what Christ says, Malt. xii.27. If I by Beelzebub cast out demons, by whom do your;sons cast them out?