OCR Output m [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. rect the young men, and to bring them to re­pentance for what they had done. But Zimri arose up after him, and said,"Yes, indeed, Moses, thou art at liberty tomake use of such laws as thou art so fond of;and hast, by accustoming thyself to them,made them firm. Otherwise, if things hadnot been thus, thou hadst often been punishedbefore now, and hadst known that the He­brews are not easily put upon. But thou shaltnot have me.one of thy followers in thy tyran­nical commands: for thou didst nothing else.hitherto, but, under pretence of laws, and ofGod, wickedly impose upon us slavery, andgain dominion to thyself; while thou deprivestus of the sweetness of life, which consists inacting according to our own wills, and is theright of free men, and of those that have nolord over them. Nay, indeed, thou art harderupon the Hebrews than were the Egyptiansthemselves; as pretending to punish accord­ing to law every one's acting as is most agree­able to himself. But thou thyself better de-servest to suffer punishment, who presumestto abolish what every one acknowledges to begood for him; and aimest to make thy singleopinion of more force than that of the rest,and what I now do, and think to be right, Ishall not hereafter deny to be according tomy own sentiments. I have married, as thousayest rightly, a strange woman, and thouhearest what I do from myself, as from onethat is free: for truly I did not intend to con­ceal myself. I also own that I sacrifice tothose gods to whom you do not think fit tosacrifice; and I think it right to acquire know­ledge by inquiring of many people; and not,like one that lives under tyranny, to suffer thewhole hope of my life to depend upon oneman. Nor shall any one find cause to rejoicewho declares himself to have more authorityover my actions than myself." When Zimri had said these things, aboutwhat he and some others had wickedly done,the people held their peace: both out of fearof what might come upon them, and becausethey saw that their legislator was not willingto bring his insolence before the public anyfarther, or openly to contend with him. Forhe avoided that, lest many should imitate theimpudence of his language, and thereby dis­turb the multitude. Upon this, the assemblywas dissolved. However, this mischievous attempt had proceeded farther, if Zimri hadnot been slain on the following occasion:Phineas, a man in other respects better thanthe rest of the young men, and also one thatsurpassed his contemporaries in the dignity ofhis father; (for he was the son of Eleazar thehigh-priest, and the grandson of Aaron, Mo­ses's brother,) was greatly troubled at whatwas done by Zimri. So he resolved to intlictpunishment on him, before his unworthy be­haviour should grow stronger by impunity,and in order to prevent this transgressionfrom proceeding farther: which would hap­pen if the ringleaders were not punished.He was of so great magnanimity, both instrength of mind and body, that when he un­dertook any very dangerous attempt, he didnot relinquish it till he got an entire victory.So he came into Zimri's tent, and slew himwith his javelin; and with it he slew Cozbialso. Upon which, all those young men thathad a regard to virtue, and aimed to do aglorious action, imitated Phineas's boldness,and slew those that were found to be guiltyof the same crime with Zimri. Accordinglymany of those who had transgressed perishedby the magnanimous valour of these youngmen. The rest all perished by a plague,which God himself inflicted upon them. Sothat all those, who, instead of hindering themfrom such wicked actions, as they ought tohave done, had persuaded them to go on,were esteemed by God as partners in thewickedness, and died. Accordingly thereperished out of the army no fewer than twenty-four thousand at this time. This was the cause why Moses was pro­voked to destroy the Midianites; concerningwhich expedition we will speak presently,when we have first related what has beenomitted. For it is but just not to pass overour legislator's due encomium, on account ofhis conduct here: because, although Balaam,who was sent for by the Midianites to cursethe Hebrews; and when he was hinderedfrom doing it by Divine Providence, did stillsuggest that advice to them, by making use ofwhich our enemies had nearly corrupted themultitude cf the Hebrews with their artifices;'yet did he do him great honour, by settingdown his prophecies in writing. And whileit was in his power to claim this glory tohimself, and make men believe they were his >