OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 41 istence of a slave became an object of greater value, and though hishappiness still depended on the temper and circumstances of themaster, the humanity of the latter, instead of being restrained byfear, was confirmed by the fense of his own interest. The pro­gress of manners was enforced by the virtue or policy of the em­perors; and by the edicts of Hadrian and the Antonines, theprotection of the laws was extended to the most abject part of man­kind. The jurisdiction of life and death over the staves, a powerlong exercised and often abused, was taken out of private hands,and reserved to the magistrates alone. The subterraneous prisonswere abolished; and upon a just complaint of intolerable treat­ment, the injured slave obtained either his deliverance, or a lesscruel master So. Hope, the best comfort of our imperfect condition, was not denied Enfranchise-to the Roman slave; and if he had any opportunity of making him­self either useful or agreeable, he might very naturally expect'that the diligence and fidelity of a few years would be reward­ed with the inestimable gift of freedom. The benevolence ofthe master was so frequently prompted by the meaner sug­gestions of vanity and avarice, that the laws found it more ne­cessary to restrain than to encourage a profuse and undistinguish-ing liberality, which might degenerate into a very dangerous abuse5'.It was a maxim of ancient jurisprudence, that as a slave had not anycountry of his own, he acquired with his liberty an admission intothe political society of which his patron was a member. Theconsequences of this maxim would have prostituted the privileges ofthe Roman city to a mean and promiscuous multitude. Some sea­sonable exceptions were therefore provided; and the honourabledistinction was confined to such slaves only, as for just causes, andwith the approbation of the magistrate, should receive a solemn andlegal manumission. Even these chosen freedmen obtained no morethan the private rights of citizens, and were rigorously excludedfrom civil employments and military service. Whatever might be Vol. I. G the