OCR Output 416 ROMAN EMPIRE. multitudes. Had not the Nile afforded a safe and readyconveyance to the sea, not an individual could have es­caped, who, by birth, or language, or office, or religion,was connected with their odious name.siege and By tne retreat of the Greeks from the pro-vmces of Upper Egypt, a considerable force wascollected in the island of Delta; the natural andartificial channels of the Nile afforded a succession ofstrong and defensible posts; and the road to Alexandriawas laboriously cleared by the victory of the Saracensin two-and-twenty days of general or partial combat.In their annals of conquest, the siege of Alexandria' isperhaps the most arduous and important enterprise. Thefirst trading city in the world was abundantly reple­nished with the means of subsistence and defence. Hernumerous inhabitants fought for the dearest of humanrights, religion and property; and the enmity of thenatives seemed to exclude them from the common benefitof peace and toleration. The sea was continually open;and if Heraclius had been awake to the public distress,fresh armies of Romans and barbarians might have beenpoured into the harbour to save the second capital ofthe empire. A circumference of ten miles would havescattered the forces of the Greeks, and favoured thestratagems of an active enemy; but the two sides of anoblong square were covered by the sea and the lakeMaraeotis, and each of the narrow ends exposed a frontof no more than ten furlongs. The efforts of the Arabswere not inadequate to the difficulty of the attempt andthe value of the prize. From the throne of Medina,the eyes of Omar were fixed on the camp and city: hi&voice excited to arms the Arabian tribes and the veteransof Syria; and the merit of a holy war was recommended * The local description of Alexandria it perfectly ascertained by the master-handof tin- 6rst of geographers; (d'Anville, Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 52—63.) bat wemay borrow the eyes of the modern travellers, more especially of Thevenot,'Voyage au Levant, part 1. p. 381—395) Pocock, (vol. 1.p.2—13.) and Niebohr. Voyage en Arable, torn. 1. p, 34—43.) Of the two modern rivals, Savory and "olney, the one may amuse, the other will instruct. TO 8V