OCR Output 336 [book rx. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. place; for that, as they sat behind Ahab'schariot, they heard the prophet say so; andit was now come to pass according to hisprophecy. Upon the fall of Joram, Ahaziahwas afraid of his own life, and turned hischariot into another road; supposing heshould not he seen by Jehu. But he fol­lowed after him, and overtook him at a cer­tain acclivity, and drew his bow, andwounded him. So he left his chariot, andgot upon his horse, and fled from Jehu toMegiddo; and though he was under cure, ina little time he died of that wound; and wascarried to Jerusalem and buried there; afterhe had reigned one year, and had proved amore unrighteous man than his father. When Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebeladorned herself,* and stood upon a tower,and said, "He was a fine servant that hadkilled his master." And when he looked upto her, he asked who she was, and com­manded her to come down to him. At lasthe ordered the eunuchsf to throw her downfrom the tower: and being thrown down,Jshe sprinkled the walls with her blood, and was trodden upon by the horses, and so died.When this was done, Jehu came to the palacewith his friends, and took some refreshmentafter his journey. He also bade his servantstake up Jezebel and bury her, because of thenobility of her blood; for she was descendedfrom kings.|| But those that were appointedto bury her, found nothing remaining but theextreme parts of her body, for all the restwere eaten by dogs. When Jehu heard this,he admired the prophecy of Elijah, which§foretold that she should perish in this mannerat Jezreel. Now Ahab had seventy sons brought up inSamaria. So Jehu sent two epistles,** theone to them that brought up the children, theother to the rulers of Samaria; desiring themto set up the most valiant of Ahab's sons forking; for that they had abundance of chariots,and horses, and armour, and a great army,and fenced cities; and that by so doing theymight avenge the murder of their master.This he wrote to try the intentions of thoseof Samaria. Now when the rulers, and thosethat had brought up the children had read * The words in the original import, She put her eyesin paint, i. e. she used stibium or antimony pulverised, tomake her eyes and eyebrows look black and large, which,in several countries, was accounted a great beauty. Theuse of paint has been of ancient date, and the art ofblacking the hair, and beautifying the face may be in­dulged by the vanity of the female sex; but it raises one'sindignation to read of a Sardanapalus painting his eyes andeyebrows; of the ancient Greeks running into the samecustom; and much more of the martial Romans; butthere were fops in all nations then as well as now. Ille supercilium madida fuligine, tinctumObliqua producit acu, pingitque trementesAttollens oculos. Juv. Sat. 2. B. t According to the custom of the eastern nations, thebusiness of this sort of people was to attend upon queensin their chambers, who, by their great fidelity and obse­quiousness, gained generally the esteem, and were ad­mitted to the confidence of those they served, and fromthence into places very often of great trust and profit. Itis remarked, however, of Jezebel's eunuchs, that theywere far from being faithful to her, to let us see howsuddenly courtiers are wont to change with the fortune oftheir masters. Patrick's Commentary. B. \ Some of the Jewish doctors look upon this as apunishment, according to the lex talionis; for as she haddone, so she suffered. She had caused Naboth to beStoned, and now she is condemned to be stoned herself.For there were two wavg of stoning, either by throwingstones at malefactors till they had knocked them downand killed them; or by throwing them down upon thestones from a high place, and so dashing them to pieces.Patrick's Commentary. B. II She was the daughter of Eth-baal king of Tyre; thewife of Ahab, and mother of Joram, kings of Israel; themother-in-law of Jehoram king of Judah; and the auntof Ahaziah, who was likewise king of Judah. Calmet'sCommentary. B. § See Book VIII. chap. 13. ** The words in the original, which our translation hasfollowed, are, Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria,unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to them thatbrought up Ahab's children, 2 Kings x. 1. But then thequestion is, How the rulers of Jezreel came to be atSamaria? Some have imagined indeed a mistake in thetranscriber, and that, instead of Jezreel, the word shouldbe Israel, which is no great variation: but why may wenot suppose, that, upon hearing how Jehu had slainJoram, the great men of his court might take the children,and, for fear that they should fall into his hands, flee withthem into Samaria, as the capital, and strongest place inthe kingdom, where they might think of defending them­selves against his usurpation, and (as his letters seem toimport) of filling, with one of Ahab's family, the vacantthrone. It was customary for princes of the blood, inthose days, to be brought up in the families of the primenobility of the nation; and therefore, whatever persons ofthis quality had these princes under their care, and sawthe revolution that was like to happen, they might thinkit the most advisable way to hasten with them to Samaria,as a place of the most security; or, for this very reason.Joram. when he went against Ramoth Gilead, might havesent them thither, that they might be under cover fromany ill accident that might possibly happen in his warwith the king of Syria. Patrick's Commentary, and PooPsAnnotations. B.