OCR Output B. III. 245 YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. had got the start of a day and a night. The Mitylene an am­bassadors amply furnished them with wine and barley-cakes,and promised them great rewards if they arrived in time.By this means they were so eager to accelerate the passage,that even whilst plying the oar they eat their cakes dipped inwine and oil; and whilst one half of the number refreshedthemselves with sleep, the other kept rowing amain. So for­tunate were they that not one adverse blast retarded theircourse. The former vessel, as sent on a monstrous errand,had not hastened its passage in the least; and the latter wasmost intently bent on expedition. That indeed got before toMitylene, but only long enough for Paches to read over thedecree, and give orders for its immediate execution. At thatcrisis the latter arriveth, and prevented the massacre. Tosuch an extremity of danger was Mitylene reduced. The other Mityleneans, whom Paches* had sent to Athensas deepest concerned in the revolt, were there put to death,according to the advice of Cleon. And the number of theseamounted to somewhat above a thousand. The Athenians, further, demolished the walls of Mityleneand took away their shipping. They did not for the futureenjoin an annual tribute upon the Lesbians, but dividing thewhole island into shares (except what belonged to Methymne),three thousand in the whole, they set apart three hundred ofthese as sacred to the Gods, and sent some of their own peo­ple, who were appointed by lot, to take possession of the rest,as full proprietors. The Lesbians, as tenants of these, wereobliged to pay them two Mynve] yearly for every share, inconsideration of which they had still the use of the soil.—The • We hear no more in this history of Paches, who certainly, in the re­duction of Lesbos, had done a great service to his country, and had behavedthrough the whole affair with great discretion and humanity And jetPlutarch tells us in two passages (in the live) of Aristides and Nicias) thatat his return he was called to account for his conduct during his command,and fmding he was going to be condemned, his resentment and indignationrose so high, that he instantly slew himself in court. t 6/. 9s. 2f/. sterling.Vol. I. 2 Y