OCR Output 166 LESBOS. LESORA MOXS. portant (Tlincyd. viii. 5, 22, 23, 32, 100). It wis near the coast of this Inland that the last great navalvirtory of the Athenians during the war was won,that of Conon over Callicratidas at Arginusae. Onthe destruction of the Athenian force by Lysanderat Acgospotami, it fell under the power of Sparta;but it was recovered for a time by Thrasybulus(Xrn. Hell iv. 8. §§ 28—30). At the peace ofAntalcidas it ww declared inde[indent. From thistime to the establishuwnt of the Macedonian empireit is extremely difficult to fix the fluctuations of thehistory of Lesbos in the midst of the varying influ­ences of Athens, Sparta, and Persia. After the battle of the Granicus, Alexander madea treaty with the Lesbians. Memnon the Khodiantook Mytilene and fortified it, and died there. Af­terwards llegelochus reduced the various cities ofthe inland under the Macedonian power. (For thehistory of these transaction* see Arrian, ExpetL Ahx.iii. 2; Curt. Hist. Alex. iv. 5.) In the war of theRomans with l'erseus, l,abeo destroyed Antissa foraiding the Macedonians, and incorporated its inha­bitants with those of Methymna (Liv. xlv. 31. Henceperhaps the true explanation of Pliny's remark,I. c). In the course of the Mithridatic War, Mytileneincurred the displeasure of the lt-^mans by deliveringup M". Aquillios (Veil. Pat. ii 18; Appian, Mithr.21). It was also the last city which held out afterthe close of the war, and was reduced by M. MinuciusThennus,—an occasion on which Julius Caesar dis­tinguished himself, and earned a civic crown bysaving the life of a soldier (Liv. EpiU 89; Suet.Caes. 2; see Cic. contra Hull. ii. 16). Pompey,however, was induced by Theophanes to make My­tilene a free city (Veil. Pat. 1. c; Strab. xiii. p.617), and he left there his wife and son during thecampaign which ended at Pharsalia. (Appian, Ii. C.ii. 83; Pint. Ptnnp. 74,75.) From this time weare to regard Le»bos as a part of the Roman provinceof Am a, witb Mytilene distingni>hed as its chiefcity, and in the enjoyment of privileges more par­ticularly described elsewhere. We may mention herethat a few imperial coins of Lesbos, as distinguishedfrom those of the cities, are extant, of the reigns ofM. Anrelius and Commodua, and with the legendKOINON AECBinN(KckbellvoLu.p.501;Mionnet,vol. iii. pp. 34. 35). In the new division of provinces under Constantine,Lesbos was placed in the Protineia, Insutarum(HierocL p 686, ed. Wesseling). A few detachednotices of its fortunes during tin* middle ages are allthat can be given here. On the 15th uf August,a.i>. 802, the empress Irene ended ber extraordinarylife here in exile. (See Le Bean, Hist. </« Bom Empire,vol. xii. p. 400.) In the thirteenth century, con-tcinporaneoiL-dy with the first crusade, Lesbos beganto be affected by the Turkish conquests: Tzachas,Emir o\ Smyrna, succeeded in taking Mytilene, butfailed in his attempt on Methymna. (Anna Comn.Alex. lib. vii. p. 362, ed. Bonn.) Alexis, however,sent an eipediiion to retake Mytilene, and was suc­cessful (lb. ix. p. 425). In the thirteenth centuryI^sboK w«a in the power of the Latin emperors ofConstantinople, bat it was recovered to the Greeksby Joannes Ducas Vatatzes, emperor of Xicaea (seebis life in the Diet, of Butgraphf). In the fourteenthcentury Joannes Palaeologus gave his sister inmarriage to Francisco Gnteliizxin, and the island ofLesbos as a dowry; and it continued in the possessionof this family till its final absorption in the TurkMiempire (Ducas, Hut Hyzant. p. 46, ed. lhmn). It appears, however, that these princes were tributaryto the Turks (lb. p. 328). In 1457. Mahomet II.made an unsuccessful assault on Methymna, in cud-sequence of a suspicion that the Lesbians had ii>dthe Catalan buccaneers (lb. p. 338; see also Vert-4,Hist, de lOrdre de Matte, ii. 258). He did ontactually take the island till 1462. The history ofthe annalist Ducas himself is closely connected withLesbos: he resided there after the fall of Constan­tinople; he conveyed the tribute from the reiningGateluzzio to the sultan at Adrianople; and the l»>tparagraph of his history is an unfinished accountof the final catastrophe of the island. This notice of Lesbos would be very incompltte,unless something were said of its intellectual emi­nence. In reference to poetry, and especially poetryin connection with music, no island of the Grerks i*so celebrated as Lesbos. Whatever other explana­tion we may give of the legend concerning the b«dand lyre of Orpheus being carried by the wave* toits shores, we may take it as an expression of tatfact that here was the primitive seat of* the muse ofthe lyre. Leeches, the cyclic minstrel, a native ofPyrrha, was the first of its series of poets. Ter-pander, though his later life was chiefly connertnlwith the Peloponnesus, was almost certainly a nativeof Lesbos, and probably of Antissa: Artoo, of Me­thymna, appears to have belonged to his Reboot; andno two men were so closeiy connected with the earlyhistory of Greek music. The names of Alcaeus andSappho are the most imperishable elements iu tL«renown of Mytilene. The latter was aotnetiriiicalled the tenth Muse (as in Plato's epigram, lar*-AtoS6$*y if 5«*dVn); and a school of j«wtR***(Lesbiadum turba, Ovid, Her. xv.) seems to lisvebeen formed by her. Here, without entering into thediscussions, by Welcker and others, concerning thecharacter of Sappho herself, we must slate that tbewomen of Lesbos were as famous for their proflicaryas their beauty. Their beauty is celebrated by H<>nwr(//. ix. 129, 271), and, as regards their profligacy,the proverbial expression k*a€id£*i* affixes a worsestain to their island than Kfrrrrifrw does to Crete. I^esbos seems never to have produced any dis­tinguished painter or sculptor, but Hellanico* andTheophanes the friend of Pompey are wi-rtby ufbeing mentioned among historians; and Pittacas,Theophrastus, and Cratippus are known in theannals of philosophy and science. Pittacns w*»famous also as a legislator. These eminent rwnwere all natives of Mytileue, with the exception ofTheophrastus, who was bom at Kresus. The fullest account of Lesbos is the treatise ofS. L. Plehn, Lesbiacorum Liber, Berlin, 1826. lathis work is a map of the island; but the Kngh-bAdmiralty charts should be consulted, op»rxillTNos. 1654 and 1665. Forbiger refers to reviews ofPlehn s work by Meter in the UalL AUg. Lit /«*for 1827, and by O. MUllcr in the GoHL GeL Am.for 1828; also to Lander's Beitntt/f rw AW*der Insel Lexbos, Hamb. 1827. Information r*?aro-ing the modern condition of the island will be ob­tained from Pooocke, Tuurnefort, Kichter, and Pre-kesch. [J. & R] LF/SORA MOXS (Mont Lotere\ a summit ofthe Ceeennes, above 4800 feet high, it mtrtjeoed bySklonius Apolliuarie (Carm. 24, 44) asthe source of the Taraia (Tarn):— u Hinc te Lesora Caucasum S-ytliarumVincent, aaptciet citnjqne Taraia.''