OCR Output 164 LEROS, LESBOS. the katavothra of the Arcadian rallies. The riverio«in after enters a small lake, a few hundred yardsin circumfcrcnce, and surrounded with a greatvariety of aquatic plants; and it then forms a marshextending to the sea-bhore. Tlie lake is now waitedin. and the water is diverted into a small streamwhich turns some mills standing close to the sea­shore. This lake is evidently the Alcyonian pool of1'ausaniax; f.»r although he docs not say that it isfinned by the river Amymone, there can be nodoubt of the fact. The lake answers exactly to thedescription of Pausanias, with the exception of beinglarger; and the tale of its Wing unfathomable isstill related by the millers in the neighbourhood. IPausanias is the only writer who calls tins lake theAlcyonian pool; other writers gave it the name of jLernaeau; and the river Amy mono, by which it is'formed, is likewise named Lerna. The fountain ofAinphiaraus can no longer be identified, probably in |confluence of the enlargement of the lake. The ,suit ion of the hydra was under a palm-tree at thesource of the Amymone; and the numerous heads ofthe water-snake may perhaps have been sug­gested by the numerous sources of this river.Amymone is frequently mentioned by the poets. Itis said to have derived its name from one of thedaughters of Danaus, who was beloved by Poseidon;and the river gushed forth when the nymph drew outof the rock the trident of the god. (Hygin. Fab.169.) Hence Euripides (Phoen. 188) speaks ofTToTfiSwfia 'Auvfi&vta CSara. (Comp. Propert. ii.26,47; Ov. Met ii. 240.) (Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 225; Leake,Aiorrrt, vol. ii. p. 472, seq; Boblaye, Recherche*,<fc. p. 47; Mure, Ttmr in Greece, vol. ii. p. 194;Koss, Ueism im Pehponne*t\). 150; Curtius, Pelo-pitntiesag, vol. ii. p. 3C8, se<j.) LKKOS (A4pos: Eth. Aiptoi ; Leros), a smallisland of the Aegean, and belonging to the scatteredislands called Sjwrades. It is situated opposite theSinus lassius, on the north of Calymna, and on thesouth of Lepsia, at a distance of 320 stadia fromCiai and 350 from Myndus. (Staduum. Afar. Mayni,§§ 246, 250, 252.) According to a statement ofAnaximenesof LampsacuK, Leros was,like Iraros.colo-nised by Milesians. (Stmb.xiv.(p. 635.) This was pro-K*ih|y done in consequence of a .suggestion of Hecataeu*;for on the breaking out of the revolt of the Ioniansagainst Persia, he advised his countrymen to erect afortress in the island, and make it the centre oftheir operations, if they should I* driven fromMiletus. (Hcrud. v. 125; comp. Thucyd. viii. 27.)Before its occupation by the Milesians, it was pro­bably inhabited by Dorians. The inhabitants ofL<TM were notorious in antiquity for their ill nature,whence Plwcytides sang of them : — Aiptoi Ktucot, ovx o n'*v. *s o* uC, neUrn, w\ijt> TipoicAiovt' KuX T\poK\frjt Atpiot. (Strab. x. p. 487, Ac.) The town of Lems wassituated on the west of the modern town, on thesouth hide of the bay, and on the slope of a hill; inth s locality, at least, distinct traces of a town havelteen discovered by Koss. (keisen aiif a\ Griech.J rutin, ii. p. 119.) The plan of Hecatacus to fortifyLeros does not seem to have been carried into effect.Leros never was an independent community, but wasgoverned by Miletus, as we must infer from inscrip­tions, which also show that Milesians continued toinhabit the island as late as th* time of the hV>mans.Leros contained a sanctuary of Artemis Parthrnos, in which, according to mythology, the riatm afMelwiger were transformed into guinea fowls (»»-\taypi6tt; Anton. Lib. 2; comp. Ov. J/ef. via. 533,Ac), whence these birds were always kept in thesanctuary of the goddess. (Athen. xir. p. 655.)In a valley, about ten minutes' walk from the sea, asmall convent still bears the name of ParOtmi, andat a little distance from it there are the ruins of anancient Christian church, evidently built upon ndwancient foundation, which seems to have bwn that Uthe templeof Artemis Partlienos. "Thissmall island.*says Riws, "thongh envied on acconnt of iufertility,its smiling valleys, and its excellent harbours, isnevertheless scorned by its neighbours, who charrwits inhabitants with niggardliness" {I.e. p. 122;comp. Bockh, Corp. Inscripi. n. 2263; Hoas,Itucript. ined. ii. 188.) [L. &] LESBOS (Mdios: Eth, and Adj. Ato-Ciai,A(o€ik6s, Afa€iai(6s, Lesbius, Lesbious, Le*-biacus : fern. Ata€i$t Ataxias, Lesbis, Lesbiaa: iathe middle ages it was named Mitylene, from iuprincipal city: Geog. Rav. v. 21: Suidas. *,«-.;Hierocl. p. 686; Eustath. ad II. ix. 129, Od. in.170: hence it is called by the modern GreeksMitylen or Metelmo, and by the Turks Medilli orMedeUu-Adassi.') Like several other islands of theAegsan, Lesbos is said by Strabo, Pliny and othmto have had various other names, Issa, H intent,Lasia, Pelasgia, Aegira, Aethiope, and Materia.(Strab. i. p. 160, v. p. 128; Plin. v. 31 (39); LhuLiii. 55, v. 81.) Lesbos is situated off the coast of Mysia, exactlyopposite the opening of the gulf of Adraimttiuin.Iu northern part is separated from the mainlandnearAssos [Ashos] by a channel about 7 mile* bread;and the distance between the south-eastern extremityand the islands of Arginusae [Akoinubak] is ai»olthe Fame. Strabo reckons the breadth of the frraerstrait at 60 stadia, and Pliny at 7 miles: for thelatter strait see Strab. xiii. pp. 616, 617, and Xrm.Hell. i. 6. §§ 15—28. The island lies between theparallels of 38° 58' and 39° 24'. Pliny state* thecircumference as 168 miles, Strabo as 1100 stasia.Acconiing to Chniscul-Goumcr, the latter cvtiuuiitis rather too great. Scylax (p. 56) assigns to L«-sd>*the seventh rank in six* among tlie islands uf lbsMediterranean sea- In shape I„e*bos may be roughly described as atriangle, the sides of which face respectively th*N\V., the NE., and the S\V. The northern poiat isthe promontory of Argennum, the western is that sjiSigrium (still called Cape Sign), the south-easternis that of Malea (now called Zeitoun fttmrovm or CapeSt. Mary). But though this description <sf lbsisland as triangular is generally correct, it most benoticed that it is penetrated far into the interior bytwo gulfs, or sea-hn-Ks as they may properly tocalled, on the south-western aide. One of uW t»Port Iliero or Port Olieier, ** one of the beet har­bours of the Archipelago," opening from the •*»about 4 miles to the westward of Cape Malea. ardextending about 8 miles inland among the moon lain*.It may be reasonably conjectured that its anew**,name was Port us Hieraeus; since Pliny roentwe.* *Lesbian city called Hiera, which was extinct beforehis time. The other arm of the sea, to which wehare alluded, is about half-way between the furmrrand Cape Sigrium. It is tlie ** beautiful and ex­tensive basin, named Port Calami' and aacawatrycalled Eunpus Pyrrhaeus. Knmi the extreme n*r-rowDesa of the entrance, it b was adapted hr taw/