OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING M1THRADATES. 287 Chersonese by his troops had become the signal for theAsiatic war (ii. 260), and could not but see that the occupationof the Tauric Chersonese by the Pontic king ought still lessto be tolerated now. The scale was at last turned by the Interven-practical reunion of the kingdom of Cappadocia, respecting t>on of thewhich, moreover, Nicomedes of Bithynia—who on his partsenate-had hoped to gain possession of Cappadocia by anotherPseudo-Ariarathes, and now saw that the Pontic pretenderexcluded his own—would not fail to urge the Romangovernment to intervention. The senate resolved thatMithradates should reinstate the Scythian princes—so farwere they driven out of the track of right policy by theirnegligent style of government, that instead of supporting theHellenes against the barbarians they had now on the contraryto support the Scythians against those who were half theircountrymen. Paphlagonia was declared independent, andthe Pseudo-Pylaemenes of Nicomedes as well as Mithradateswere directed to evacuate the portions of the country whichthey had occupied. In like manner the Pseudo-Ariaratheswas to retire from Cappadocia, and, as the representatives ofthe country refused the freedom proffered to it, a king wasonce more to be appointed by free popular election. Thedecrees sounded energetic enough; only it was an error, that Sulla sentiustead of sending an army they directed the governor ofto Cappado-Cilicia, Lucius Sulla, with the handful of troops whom he cli1,commanded there against the pirates and robbers, to inter­fere in Cappadocia. Fortunately the remembrance of theformer energy of the Romans defended their interests in theEast hetter than the existing government did, and the energyand versatility of the governor supplied what the senate leftto be desired in both respects. Mithradates kept back andcontented himself with inducing Tigranes the great king ofArmenia, who held a freer position with reference to theKomans than he did, to send troops to Cappadocia. Sullaquickly collected his forces and the contingents of the Asiaticallies, crossed the Taurus, and drove the governor Gordiusalong with his Armenian auxiliaries out of Cappadocia. Thisproved effectual. Mithradates yielded on all points; Gor­dius had to assume the blame of the Cappadocian troubles,and the Pseudo-Ariarathes disappeared; the election of king,which the Pontic faction had vainly attempted to directtowards Gordius, fell on the estimable Cappadocian Ario-barzanes. When Sulla in following out his expedition