OCR Output CHAP. 39. ROMAN HISTORY. 459 made too on the banks of the Tiber, whither the wholeleft wing had retreated, after they had thrown down theirarms: many who knew not bow to 8vyim, or could not,being weighed down by their coats of mail and other ac­coutrements, were swallowed up by the waves. Thegreatest part, however, got safe to Veii, from whence,•they were so far from sending relief to Rome, that theynever once thought of dispatching a courier with thenews of their misfortune. The right wing, which wasposted nearer the hill, and at a great distance from theriver, marched all to Rome, and took refuge in the cita­del, without staying to shut the gates of the city behindtneiii. : .' CHAP. XXXIX. The Gauls enter Rome. The flower of the Romans fy to.the Citadel and CapiteL .T\. VICTORY so suddenly obtained, astonished theGauls so muchj that they considered it as something mi­raculous. At first, awed by fjear,. they stood motionless,as if they had known nothing of what had happened.They stil'l dreaded stme ambuscade, but at last began tostrip the slainj and pile up the arms, according to theircustom. After all, when they saw nothing like an ene­my appear, they set out for Rome, which they reacheda. little before sun-set. When the horse that were de­tached before theni, brought back word that the gateswere open, no guards posted before them, nor any sol­diers on tire walls, they considered it as a continuationof the same miracle; and. not .knowing what the nightmight bring forth, at the same time that they were utterfi "angers to the situation of the city, they encamped be­tween the Anio and the city, and sent out scouts roundthe walls and the gates of the city, to bring intelligenceof the enemy's designs, now that their situation was ex- .tremely critical. At Rome, as the greatest part of the army had fled toVeii, nobody imagining that one of them had escapedbut those who had made good their retreat to Rome, and .the whole city lamenting the loss of the living, as wellas the dead, there was nothing to be seen but tears a.nd