OCR Output CHAP. LI I. 481 more probably the vanity, of the commander of thefaithful. From the Pyrennees, Abderame proceededwithout delay to the passage of the Rhone and the siegeof Arles. An army of Christians attempted the relief ofthe city: the tombs of their leaders were yet visible inthe thirteenth century; and many thousands of their deadbodies were carried down the rapid stream into the Me­diterranean sea. The arms of Abderame were not lesssuccessful on the side of the ocean. He passed withoutopposition the Garonne and Dordogne, which unite theirwaters in the gulf of Bourdeaux; but he found, beyondthose rivers, the camp of the intrepid Eudes, who hadformed a second army, and sustained a second defeat, sofatal to the Christians, that, according to their sad con­fession, God alone could reckon the number of the slain.The victorious Saracen overran the provinces of Aqui-tain, whose Gallic names are disguised, rather than lost,in the modern appellations of Perigord, Saintogne, andPoitou: his standards were planted on the walls, or atleast before the gates, of Tours and of Sens; and his de­tachments overspread the kingdom of Burgundy as faras the well-known cities of Lyons and Besan^on. Thememory of these devastations, for Abderame did notspare the country or the people, was long preserved bytradition; and the invasion of France by the Moors, orMahometans, affords the ground-work of those fables,which have been so wildly disfigured in the romances ofchivalry, and so elegantly adorned by the Italian muse.In the decline of society and art, the deserted cities couldsupply a slender booty to the Saracens; their richestspoil was found in the churches and monasteries, whichthey stripped of their ornaments and delivered to theflames: and the tutelar saints, both Hilary of Poitiersand Martin of Tours, forgot their miraculous powers inthe defence of their own sepulchres/ A victorious line 1 With regard to the sanctuary of St. Martin of Tours, Roderic Ximenes accusesthe Saracens of the dad. Turonis civitatem, ecclesiam et palatia vastatione etincendio simili diruit et consnmpsit. The continuator of Fredegarius imputes to V OL. VI. 2 I