OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.) OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. brandishing his weapons, denounced implacable waragainst the worshippers of fire. But the proposal of thesilk-trade was eluded; and notwithstanding the assu­rances, and perhaps the wishes, of the Abyssinians, thesehostile menaces evaporated without effect. The Home-rites were unwilling to abandon their aromatic groves^ toexplore a sandy desert, and to encounter, after all theirfatigues, a formidable nation from whom they had neverreceived any personal injuries. Instead of enlarging hisconquests, the king of ^Ethiopia was incapable of defend­ing his possessions. Abrahah, the slave of a Romanmerchant of Adulis, assumed the sceptre of the Home-rites; the troops of Africa were seduced by the luxury ofthe climate; and Justinian solicited the friendship of theusurper, who honoured, with a slight tribute, the supre­macy of his prince. After a long series of prosperity, thepower of Abrahah was overthrown before the gates ofMecca; his children were despoiled by the Persian con­queror; and the ^Ethiopians were finally expelled fromthe continent of Asia. This narrative of obscure and re­mote events is not foreign to the decline and fall of theRoman empire. If a Christian power had been main­tained in Arabia, Mahomet must have been crushed inhis cradle, and Abyssinia would have prevented a revo­lution which has changed the civil and religious state ofthe world.h CHAP. XLIII. Rebellion! of Africa.—Restoration of the Gothic kingdom by Totila.—Loss and re­covery of Rome.—Final conquest of Italy by Narses.—Extinction of the Ostro­goths.—Defeat of the Franks) and Alemanni.—Last victory, disgraoe, and deathof Belisarius.—Death and character of Justinian.—Comet, earthquakes, andplague. The review of the nations from the Danube to theNile has exposed on every side the weakness of the Ro- h The revolutions of Yemen in the sixth century must he collected from Procopins;(Persic, lib. 1. c, 19, 20.) Thcophanes Brunt, (apod Phot. cod. 63. p. 60); St.