OCR Output 3o4 LIVY. of the proper standard, and that on the assay it wanteda fourth part, they borrowed money at Rome, andmade up the deficiency. On their requesting that thesenate would be pleased to order their hostages to berestored to them, a hundred were given up, with as­surances in regard to the rest, if they continued to ob­serve the treaty. They then farther requested, thatthe remaining hostages might be removed from Norba,where they were ill accommodated, to some other place,and they were permitted to remove to Signia and Fe-rentinum. The request of the people of Gades waslikewise complied with: that a governor should not besent to their city; being contrary to their stipulationwith Lucius Marcius Septimus, when they came underthe protection of the Roman people. Deputies fromNarnia, complaining that they had not their due num­ber of settlers, and that several who were not of theircommunity had crept in among them, and assumed theprivileges of colonists, Lucius Cornelius, consul, wasordered to appoint three commissioners to adjust thosematters. The three appointed werePublius and SextusjElius, both surnamed Paetus; and Caius CorneliusLentulus. The favor granted to the Narnians, of fill­ing up their number of colonists, was refused to thepeople of Cossa, who applied for it. 3. The consuls, having finished the business thatwas to be done at Rome, set out for their provinces.Publius Villius, on coming into Macedonia, found thesoldiers in a violent mutiny, signs of which had ap­peared some time before. There were two thousandconcerned in it. These troops, after Hannibal wasvanquished, had been transported from Africa to Si­cily, and in about a year after, into Macedonia, as vo­lunteers: they denied, however, that this was donewith their consent, affirming, that they had been puton board the ships by the tribunes, contrary to theirremonstrances; but, in what manner soever they hadbecome engaged in that service, whether by compul­sion or not, the time of it was now expired, and it wasreasonable that some end should be put to their toils.For many years they had not seen Italy, but had grown