OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, izt Whilst Severus was engaged in his eastern war, he had reason to swards Al- Dill US* apprehend that the governor of Britain might pass the sea andthe Alps, occupy the vacant feat of empire, and oppose his returnwith the authority of the senate and the forces of the west. Theambiguous conduct of Albinus, in not assuming the Imperial title,left room for negociation. Forgetting, at once, his professions ofpatriotism, and the jealousy of sovereign power, he accepted theprecarious rank of Caesar, as a reward for his fatal neutrality.Till the first contest was decided, Severus treated the man whomhe had doomed to destruction, with every mark of esteem and re­gard. Even in the letter, in which he announced his victory overNiger, he styles Albinus the brother of his soul and empire, fendshim the affectionate salutations of his wife Julia, and his youngfamily, and intreats him to preserve the armies and the republicfaithful to their common interest. The messengers charged withthis letter, were instructed to accost the Cæsar with respect, to de­sire a private audience, and to plunge their daggers into hisheart *s. The conspiracy was discovered, and the too credulousAlbinus, at length, passed over to the continent, and prepared foran unequal contest with his rival, who rushed upon him at the headof a veteran and victorious army. The military labours of Severus seem inadequate to the import- Event of theance of his conquests. Two engagements, the one near the Helles- civi1 warf»pont, the other in the narrow defiles of Cilicia, decided the fateof his Syrian competitor; and the troops of Europe asserted theirusual ascendant over the effeminate natives of Asia 49. The battleof Lyons, where one hundred and fifty thousand Romans s" wereengaged, was equally fatal to Albinus. The valour of the Britisharmy maintained, indeed, a sharp and doubtful contest, with thehardy discipline of the lllyrian legions. The fame and person ofSeverus appeared, during a few moments, irrecoverably lost, till- that warlike prince rallied his fainting troops, and led them on to aVol. I. R decisive