OCR Output 360 ROMAN EMPIRE. was consecrated to the expenses of peace and war; aprudent mixture of justice and bounty maintained thediscipline of the Saracens, and they united, by a rarefelicity, the dispatch and execution of despotism, withthe equal and frugal maxims of a republican government.The heroic courage of Ali,s the consummate prudenceof Moawiyah,h excited the emulation of their subjects;and the talents which had been exercised in the schoolof civil discord, were more usefully applied to propagatethe faith and dominion of the prophet. In the sloth'and vanity of the palace of Damascus, the succeedingprinces of the house of Ommiyah were alike destitute ofthe qualifications of statesman and of saints.1 Yet thespoils of unknown nations were continually laid at thefoot of their throne, and the uniform ascent of the Ara­bian greatness must be ascribed to the spirit of the nationrather than the abilities of their chiefs. A large de­duction must be allowed for the weakness of their ene­mies. The birth of Mahomet was fortunately placedin the most degenerate and disorderly period of thePersians, the Romans, and the barbarians of Europe;the empires of Trajan, or even of Constantine or Char­lemagne, would have repelled the assault of the nakedSaracens, and the torrent of fanaticism might have beenobscurely lost in the sands of Arabia.Their con- ^n tne victorious days of the Roman republic,quests, it had been the aim Of the senate to confine theirconsuls and legions to a single war, and completely tosuppress a first enemy before they provoked the hosti­lities of a second. These timid maxims of policy weredisdained by the magnanimity or enthusiasm of the Ara­bian caliphs. With the same vigour and success they s His reign in Eutychius, p. 343. Elmacin, p. 51. Abulpharagius, p. 117. Abul-feda, p. 83. D'Herbelot, p. 89. '' His reign in Eutychius, p. 344. Elmacin, p. 54. Abulpharagius, p. 123. Abul-feda, p. 101. D'Herbelot, p. 586. 'Their reigns in Eutychius, torn. 2. p. 360—395. Elmacin, p. 59—108. Abul­pharagius, dynast. 9. p. 124—139. Abulfeda, p. Ill—141. D'Herbelot, BibliotheqaeOrientale, p. 691. and the particular articles of the Ommiades.