OCR Output an. 1492.] 14* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. orders, by giving us victory, which will bothtake away the grief we are in at present, andprevent our distrust at what is to come." These intercessions Joshua put up to God,as he layprostrate on his face; whereupon Godanswered him, that he should rise up, and pu­rity his host, from the pollution which was gotinto it, for that consecrated things had beenimpudently stolen, and that this was the oc­casion which this defeat had happened tothem, and that when they should search outand punish the offender, he would ever takecare they should have the victory over theirenemies. This Joshua told the people; andcalling Eleazar, the high-priest, and the menin authority, he cast lots, tribe by tribe; andwhen the lot shewed that this wicked actionwas done by one of the tribe of Judah, hethen again proposed the lot to the severalfamilies thereto belonging, so it was found tobelong to the family of Zachar; and when theenquiry was made man by man, they tookAchar, who, upon God's reducing him to aterrible extremity, could not deny the fact,but confessed the theft, and produced whathe had taken in the midst of them; so thisman was immediately put to death,* and at­tained no more than to be buried in the night,in a disgraceful manner, and such as wassuitable to a condemned malefactor. When Joshua had thus purified the host,he led them against Ai; and having by nightlaid an ambush round about the city, he at­tacked the enemies as soon as it was day;but as they advanced boldly against the Is- * Josh. Til. 25. Since the law against sacrilege con­demns transgressors to the flames, and God commandedthe person here guilty to be burnt accordingly, Josh. vii.18. the Jews affirm, that Achar was actually burnt, andwhereas it is said in the text, that he was stoned, they thinkthat this was done, not judicially, but accidentally, by thepeople who were so highly provoked, that they could notforbear casting stones at him as he was led to execution.Vid. Munst. on Joshua vii. B. t It is a question among the casuists, whether the Gibe-onites could, with a good conscience, pretend that theywere foreigners, and tell a lie to save their lives? Andto this Puffendorf (Droit de la Nature, lib. 4. c. 2.) thusreplies, " The artifice of the Gibeonites," says he, " hadnothing blameable in it, nor does it properly deserve thename of a lie; for what crime is there in any one's ma­king use of an innocent fiction, in order to elude the furyof an enemy that would destroy all before them? Nor didthe Israelites, indeed properly receive any damage fromthis imposture; for what does any one lose in not shed­ding the blood of another, when he has it in his power to voL. I.—NOS. 13 & 14. raelites, because of their former victory, hemade them believe he retired, and by thatmeans drew them a great way from the city,they still supposing that they were pursuingtheir enemies, and despised them, as thoughthe case had been the same with that in theformer battle; after which Joshua orderedhis forces to turn about, and placed themagainst their front. He then made the signalsagreed upon to those that lay in ambush, andso excited them to fight; so they ran suddenlyinto the city, the inhabitants being upon thewalls, nay others of them being in perplexity,and coming to see those that were withoutthe gates. Accordingly these men took thecity, and slew all that they met with; butJoshua forced those that came against him tocome to a close fight, and discomfited them,and made them run away; and when theywere driven towards the city, and thought ithad not been touched, as soon as they saw itwas taken, and perceived it was burnt, withtheir wives and children, they wanderedabout in the fields in a scattered condition,and were no where able to defend them­selves, because they had none to supportthem. Now when this calamity was comeupon the men of Ai, there were a great num­ber of children, and women, and servants,and an immense quantity of furniture. TheHebrews also took herds of cattle, and agreat deal of money, for this was a rich coun­try; so when Joshua came to Gilgal, he di­vided all these spoils among the soldiers.But the Gibeonitesf who inhabited very take from him all his substance, after having so weakenedand disarmed him that he is no more able to rebel againsthim?" But the opinion of this great man seems to be alittle erroneous in this case. Had the Israelites indeedbeen a pack of common murderers, who, without anycommission from Heaven, were carrying blood and deso­lation into countries where they had no right; or had theGibeonites been ignorant that a miraculous Providence con­ducted these conquerors; the fraud which they here putupon them might then be deemed innocent. For there isno law that obliges us under the pretence of sincerity, tosubmit to such incendiaries, and merciless usurpers, as arefor setting fire to our cities, and putting us and our fami­lies to the edge of the sword. But the case of the Gibeo­nites was particular; and if in other things they went con­trary to truth, in this they certainly adhered to it, whenthey told Joshua, We are come, bemuse, of the name of theLord thy God, for we have heard of the fame of him, andall that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kingsof the Amorites, that were beyond Jordan, fyc. Josh. ix. 9,10. The idea which they had conceived of the God of Mm