OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 57 confederacies, the free cities of Cyzicus and Rhodes—con­tinued in their former circumscribed relations. Beyond the Halys Cappadocia—after king Ariarathes V. Cappadocia.Philopator (591-624) had, chiefly by the aid of the Attalids, 163-130.held his ground against his brother and rival Holopherneswho was supported by Syria—followed substantially thePergamene policy, both as respected absolute devotion toRome and the tendency to adopt Hellenic culture. Hewas the means of introducing that culture into the hithertoalmost barbarous Cappadocia, and along with it its extrava­gancies also, such as the worship of Bacchus and the dissolutepractices of the bands of wandering actors—the " artists " asthey were called. In reward for the fidelity to Rome whichhad cost this prince his life in the struggle with the Per­gamene pretender, his youthful heir Ariarathes VI. was notonly protected by the Romans against the usurpationattempted by the king of Pontus, but received also thesouth-eastern part of the kingdom of the Attalids, Lycaonia,along with the district bordering on it to the eastward andin earlier times included in Cilicia. In the remote north-east of Asia Minor "Cappadocia on Pontus.the sea," or more briefly the "maritime state," Pontus,increased in extent and importance. Not long after thebattle of Magnesia king Pharnaces I. had extended hisdominion far beyond the Halys to Tius on the frontier ofBithynia, and in particular had possessed himself of therich Sinope, which was converted from a Greek free cityinto the residence of these kings. The neighbouring statesendangered by these encroachments, with king Eumenes II.at their head, had on that account waged war against him(571-575), and under Roman mediation had exacted from 133-179.him a promise to/evacuate Galatia and Paphlagonia; but thecourse of events shows that Pharnaces as well as his suc­cessor Mithradates V. Euergetes (598?-634), faithful 156-120.allies of Rome in the third Punic war as well as in thestruggle with Aristonicus, not only remained in possessionbeyond the Halys, but also virtually retained the protecto­rate over the Paphlagonian and Galatian dynasts. Thishypothesis alone serves to explain how Mithradates,ostensibly for his brave deeds in the war against Aristonicus,but in reality for considerable sums paid to the Romangeneral, came to receive Great Phrygia from the latter afterthe dissolution of the Attalid kingdom. How far on the