OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. -239 by alway9 descending into generation. It is therefore by nomeans wonderful, that Hercules, who was born with intellectualprerogatives so much superior to the bulk of mankind, shouldeven from his infancy have been remarkably united with divinenatures, and thus may be said to have vanquished a partial life,which is implied by his strangling dragons in his infancy. I onlyadd farther concerning Hercules at present, that as he descendedfrom Jupiter, it appears to me that his life was both politic andphilosophic, and this in the highest degree possible to humannature. Page 67. Minerva rifing from tht head of Jupiter,,] Minerva,as Plato beautifully observes in the Cratylus, is deific intelligence:and hence she is said to have proceeded from the head of Jupiter,or the demiurgic intellect, by which the world was produced,because she is the progeny of the deific intelligence of this intellect,which is the very summit, flower, and as it were head of Jupiter. Ibid. 67. For they first of all denominated Minerva Ergane.]Ergane meanS artificer: and the propriety of this appellationmust be obvious to every one, from what we observed in the pre­ceding note; I mean, that she is the immediate progeny of theartificer of the universe. Page 68. Jupiter, -who it denominated Polieus.'] Polieus meansthe guardian of a city; and this is a very proper epithet of Ju­piter, because he is the cause of a politic and philosophic life. Page 69. In her hand she holds a spear, a shield lies at her feet,and near her spear there is a dragon, -which may perhaps le Erich -thonius; and at the base os the fiatue the generation os Pandora itrepresented.^ The spear of Minerva is a symbol of that all-per-Tading power, through which the gods without control areenabled to pervade the universe, to aid sublunary forms, and toamputate base matter. Her shield signifies that untamed power,which first appears in her essence, and from thence becomes aninvincible defence to the gods; through which they remain securefrom passion, and reign over the universe triumphant and pure. A dragon