OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLt. Scythia, where a small fine was allowed to expiate thehasty sallies of intemperance and anger. Their com­plaints were specious, their clamours were loud, and theRomans were not averse to the example of disorder andimpunity. But the rising sedition was appeased by theauthority and eloquence of the general: and he repre­sented to the assembled troops the obligation of justice,the importance of discipline, the rewards of piety andvirtue, and the unpardonable guilt of murder, which, inhis apprehension, was aggravated rather than excused bythe vice of intoxication.1 In the navigation from theHellespont to Peloponnesus, which the Greeks, after thesiege of Troy, had performed in four days,"1 the fleet ofBelisarius was guided in their course by his master-gal­ley, conspicuous in the day by the redness of the sails,and in the night by the torches blazing from the mast­head. It was the duty of the pilots, as they steered be­tween the islands, and turned the capesof Malea andTaenarium, to preserve the just order and regular inter­vals of such a multitude of ships; as the wind was fairand moderate, their labours were not unsuccessful, andthe troops were safely disembarked at Methone on theMessenian coast, to repose themselves for a while afterthe fatigues of the sea. In this place they experiencedhow avarice, invested with authority, may sport with thelives of thousands which are bravely exposed for the pub­lic service. According to military practice, the breador biscuit of the Romans was twice prepared in the oven,and a diminution of one-fourth was cheerfully allowedfor the loss of weight. To gain this miserable profit,and to save the expense of wood, the prefect John ofCappadocia had given orders that the flour should be '1 I have read of a Greek legislator, who inflicted a double penalty on tbo crimescommitted in a state of intoxication; but it seems agreed that this was rather a poli­tical than a moral law. .' m Or even in three days, since they anchored the first evening inthe neighbouringisle ofTenedos: the second day they sailed to Lesbos, the third to the promontoryof Eobosa, and on the fourth they reached Argos. (Homer, Odyss. P. 130—183..Wood's Essay on Homer, p. 40—46.) A pirate sailed from the Hellespont lu theseaport at Sparta in three days. (Xenophon, Hellen. lib. 2. c. 1.)