OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 253 his adversaries that had fled thither, and lay within the walls ofthe temple. So when he had sent a message to his brother aboutagreeing the matters between them, he laid aside his enmity tohim on these conditions, that Aristobulus should be king, thathe should live without intermeddling with public affairs, andquietly enjoy the estate he had acquired. When they had agreedupon these terms in the temple, and had confirmed the agree­ment with oaths, and the giving one another their right hands,and embracing one another in the sight of the whole multitude,they departed; the one, Aristobulus, to the palace; and Hyrcan-us, as a private man, to the former house of Aristobulus. 3. But there was a certain friend of Hyrcanus', an Idumean,called Antipater, who was very rich, and in his nature an activeand a seditious man; who was at enmity with Aristobulus, andhad differences with him on account of his good will to Hyrcan­us. It is true that Nicolaus of Damascus says, that Antipaterwas of the stock of the principal Jews who came out of Babyloninto Judea; but that assertion of his was to gratify Herod, whowas his son, and who, by certain revolutions of fortune, came af­terward to be king of the Jews, whose history we shall give youin its proper place hereafter. However, this Antipater was atfirst called * Antipas, and that was his father's name also: oiwhom they relate this, that king Alexander and his wife madehim general of all Idumea, and that he made a league of friend­ship with those Arabians, and Gazites, and Ascalonites, thatwere of his own party, and had, by many and large presents,made them his fast friends. But now, this younger Antipaterwas suspicious of the power of Aristobulus, and was afraid ofsome mischief he might do him, because of his hatred to him, sohe stirred up the most powerful of the Jews and talked againsthim to them privately; and said, that "it was unjust to over-"look the conduct of Aristobulus, who had gotten the government"unrighteously, and ejected his brother out of it, who was the"elder, and ought to retain what belonged to him by preroga-"tive of his birth." And the same speeches he perpetuallymade to Hyrcanus; and told him, that his own life would bein danger, unless he guarded himself, and got shut of Aristobu­lus; for he said, that the friends of Aristobulus omitted no op­portunity of advising him to kill him, as being then, and not be­fore, sure to retain his principality. Hyrcanus gave no creditto these words of his, as being of a gentle disposition, andone that did not easily admit of calumnies against other men. * That the famous Antipater's or Antipas' father was also Antipater or 4ntipas(which two may justly be esteemed one and the same name, the former with aGreek or Gentile, the latter with a Hebrew or Jewish termination,) Josephus hereassures us, though Eusebius indeed says it was Herod.