OCR Output 480 [book xnr. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. pened, that one and the same Cleopatra wasmarried to two, who were brethren: as wehave *related elsewhere. But AntiochusCyzicenus coming into Syria, continued manyyears at war with his brother. Now Hyrca-nus lived all this while in peace. For afterthe death of Antiochus, he "frevolted fromthe Macedonians; nor did he any longer paythem the least regard; either as their sub­ject, or their friend: but his affairs were ina very improving and flourishing condition inthe time of Alexander Zebina, and especiallyunder these brethren. For the war whichthey had with one another gave Hyrcanusan opportunity of enjoying himself in Judeaquietly; insomuch that he got an immensequantity of money. However, when Antio­chus Cyzicenus distressed his land, he thenopenly shewed what he meant. And whenhe saw that Antiochus was destitute ofEgyptian auxiliaries, and that both he andhis brother were in an ill condition in thestruggles they had one with another; hedespised them both. So he made an expedition against Sama­ria; which was a very strong city; of whosepresent name Sebaste, and its rebuilding byHerod, we shall speak at a proper time. Buthe made his attack against it, and besieged itwith a great deal of pains. For he was dis­pleased with the Samaritans, for the injuriesthey had done to the people of Marissa, acolony of the Jews, and confederate withthem; and this in compliance with the kingsof Syria. When he had therefore drawn aditch, and built a double wall round the city,which was eighty furlongs long, he set hissons Anligonus and Anstobulus over thesiege. This brought the Samaritans to suchgreat distress by famine, that they wereforced to eat what used not to be eaten;and to call for Antiochus Cyzicenus to helpthem. Accordingly he came to their as­sistance; but was beaten by Aristobulus:and when he was pursued as far as Scytho-polis by the two brethren, he got away. Sothey returned to Samaria, and shut themagain within the wall, till they were forced * See chap. 7. t Dean Prideaux takes notice at the year 133, that Jus­tin, in agreement with Josephus, says, "The power of theJews was now grown so great, that after this Antiochus,they would not have any Macedonian king over them; to send for the same Antiochus a secondtime to help them. He then procured aboutsix thousand men from Ptolemy Lathyrus,which were sent them without his mother'sconsent, who had then in a manner turnedhim out of his government. With theseEgyptians Antiochus at first overran andravaged the country of Hyrcanus, after themanner of a robber: for he durst not meethim openly to fight with him; as not havingan army sufficient for that purpose: but onlyfrom this supposal, that by thus harassing hisland he should force Hyrcanus to raise thesiege of Samaria. But because he fell intosnares, and lost many of his soldiers therein,he went away to Tripoli, and committed theprosecution of the war against the Jews toCallimander and Epicrates. But Callimander attacked the enemy toorashly, and was put to flight, and destroyedimmediately. And as to Epicrates, he wassuch a lover of money, that he openly be­trayed Scythopolis and other places near itto the Jews: but was not able to make themraise the siege of Samaria. And when Hyr­canus had taken that city, after a year'ssiege, he demolished it entirely; and broughtrivulets to it to drown it. For he dug suchhollows as might let the water run under it.Nay he took away the very marks that therehad ever been such a city there. Now avery surprising thing is related of this high-priest, Hyrcanus; now God came to dis­course with him. For they say that on thevery same day on which his sons fought withAntiochus Cyzicenus, he was alone in thetemple, as high-priest, offering incense, andheard a Jvoice, informing him, that his sonshad just then overcome Antiochus. And thishe openly declared before all the multitudeupon his coming out of the temple. And itaccordingly proved true. Now it happened at this time, that notonly those Jews who were at Jerusalem andin Judea were in prosperity, but also those ofthem who were in Egypt, and Cyprus. ForCleopatra, the queen, was at variance withher son Ptolemy Lathyrus; and appointed for and that they set up a government of their own, and in­fested Syria with great wars." J The oracle of Urim. See the note on Book IIIchap. 8.