OCR Output LAURIUM. 149 LAUS. Saniuin to Thoricus, on the eastern coast. Its pre­sent condition is thus described by Mr. Dodwell:—• One hour from Thorikos brought us to one of theancient shafts of the silver mines; and a few h iui-lired ranis further we came to several others, whichare of a square form, and cut in the rock. We ob­served only one round shaft, which was larger thanthe others, and of considerable depth, as we conjec­tured, from the time that the atones, which werethrown in. took to reach the bottom. Near this arethe foundations of a large round tower, and severalremains of ancient walls, of regular construction.The traces -are so extensive, that they seem to indi­cate, not only the buildings attached to the mines,bat the town of Laurium itself, which was probablystrongly fortified, and inhabited principally by thepeople belonging to the mines." Some modem writersdoubt whether there was a town of the name ofLaurium; but the grammarians (Suidas and Photins)who call Laurium a place (toitoi) in Attica appearlo have meant something more than a mountain; andDadweH is probably correct in regarding the ruinswhich he describes as those of the town of Laurium.N"*ar these rains Dodwell observed several largefatij* of scoria scattered about Dr. Wordsworth, inpissing along the shore from Sunium to Thoricns,observes:—u The ground which we tread is strewed*ilh rusty heaps of scoria from the silver ore which<nce enriched the soil. On our left is a hill, calledScore", so named from these heaps of scoria, with*bich it is covered. Here the shafts which haveken sunk for working the ore are visible." Theorw of this district have been ascertained to containfed as well as silver (Walpole's Turkey, p. 426).This confirms the emendations of a passage in theAristotelian Oeconomics proposed by Bockh andWordsworth, where, instead of Tvpleov in TIv6ok\tisAfyraMH 'A&nvatois cvvtSovKtvcf tok fi6\vBZovto* 4k rvv Tvpiwv irapaXauSaytiv. Bockh sug-Z&Ia Aaupltev, and Wordsworth apyuplav, whichoaght rather to be itpyvptiwv, as Mr. Lewis observes. Tli*1 name of Laurium is preserved in the corruptform of Letjrana or Alegrand. which is the name of» nK&hi of the monastery of Mendeli. Tue mines of Laurium, according to Xenophon(* Vtctig. iv. 2). were worked in remote antiquity;m>l there can be no doubt that the possession of aknre supply of silver was one of the main causes ofU*e rarly prosperity of Athens. They are alluded tobr Aeschylus {Pert. 235) in the line— spfvpov mryft tis adroit fart, drjaavphs x^vos. TV- were the property of the state, which sold ori*t for a long term of years, to individuals or com-p*cw. particular districts, partly in consideration oft mm or fine paid down, partly of a reserved rente^aal to one twenty-fourth of the gross produce.Hk rtly before the Persian wars there was a largetin in the Athenian treasury, arising out of theLaurian mines, from which a distribution of tentfvhmae a head was going to be made among theAiJ*nian citizens, when Themistccles persuadedthen to apply the money to the increase of their** (Herod. viL 144; Pint. Them. 4.) Bockh•sfposea that the distribution of ten drachmae awad, which Themistocles persuaded the Athenians*» forego, was made annually, from which he pro-"»& to calculate the total produce of the mines,ka it ha* been justly observed by Mr. Grote, that*t are not authorised to conclude from the passagea Herodotus that all the money received from the mines was about to be distributed ; nor moreover isthere any proof that there was a regular annual dis­tribution. In addition to which the large sum lyingin the treasury was probably derived from the ori­ginal purchase money paid down, and not from thereserved annual rent. Even in the time of Xenophon {Mem, iii. 6. § 12)the mines yielded much less than at an early period;and in the age of Philip, there were loud complaintsof unsuccessful speculations in mining. In thefirst century of the Christian era the mines wereexhausted, and the old scoriae were smelted a se­cond time. (Strab. ix. p. 399.) In the followingcentury Laurium is mentioned by Pausanias (i. 1),who adds that it had once been the seat of theAthenian silver mines. (Dodwell, Tour throughGreece, vol. i. p. 537, seq.; Wordsworth, A thens andAttica, p. 208, seq.; Walpole's Turkey, p. 425, seq.;Fiedler, Reise (lurch Griechenland, vol. i. p. 36, seq.;Leake, Demi of Attica, p. 65; Bockh, Dissertationon the Silver Mines of Laurion, appended to theEnglish translation of his Public Economy ofAthefts;Grote's Greece^ vol. v. p. 71, seq.) LAU'RIUM, a village in Etruria, more correctlywritten Lorium. [LouiUM.] LAURON (Jiavpoiv. prob. Laury} W. of Xucar, inValencia), a town of Hispania Tarracouensis, nearSucro, and not far from the sea. Though apparentlyan insignificant place, it is invested with great in-terest in history, both for the siege it endured in theSertorian War, and as the scene of the death of Cu.Pompeius the Younger, after his flight from the de­feat of Munda. (Liv. xxxiv. 17; Appian, B. C. i.109; PluU Sert. 18, Pomp. 18; Flor. iii. 22, iv. 2,comp. Bell llisp. 37; Oros. v. 23; Ukert, vol. ii.pt.Lp.4M0 [P-S-] LAUS(Aoor: Eth.Aaivos: nearScafea),a cityon the W. coast of Lucania, at the mouth of theriver of the same name, which formed the boundarybetween Lucania and Bruttium. (Strab. vi. pp. 253,254.) It was a Greek city, and a colony of Sybaris;but the date of its foundation is unknown, and wehave very little information as to its history. He­rodotus tells us that, after the destruction of Sybarisin B.C. 510, the inhabitants who survived the catas­trophe took refuge in Laiis and Scidrus (Herod, vi.20); but he does not say, as has been supposed, thatthese cities were then founded by the Sybarites: itis far more probable that they had been settled longbefore, during tho greatness of Sybaris, when Posi-donia also was planted by that city on the coast ofthe Tyrrhenian sea. The only other mention ofLaiis in history is on occasion of a great defeat sus­tained there by the allied forces of the Greek citiesin southern Italy, who had apparently united theirarms in order to check the progress of the Lucanians,who were at this period rapidly extending theirpower towards the south. The Greeks were defeatedwith great slaughter, and it is probable that Laiisitself fell into the hands of the barbarians. (Strab. vi.p. 253.) From this time we hear no more of thecity; and though Strabo speaks of it as still in ex­istence in his time, it seems to have disappeared be­fore the days of Pliny. The latter author, however(as well as Ptolemy), notices the river Laiis, whichPliny concurs with Strabo in fixing as the boundarybetween Lucania and Bruttium. (Strab. I.e.; Plin. iii.5. a. 10; Ptol. iii. 1. § 9 ; Staph. B. *. v.) The river Laiis still retains its ancient name as,the Lao, or Laino: it is a considerable stream,fulling into the Gulf of Policastro. Near its sources l3