OCR Output TUSCULTJM. TUSCULUM. 1243 atins. {lb. 33.) Servins Sulpicius and L. Quinc-u>. both military tribunes, were the Roman com-uniers on this occasion: and on some rare gold4iu, still extant, of the former family, are seen onm obverse the heads of Castor and Pollux, deitieswuliarly worshipped at Tusculum (Cic. Din. i. 43;t. f estns, a, c>. Stropptu), and on the reverse thou«ge of a city with the letters tvscvl on the •u. From this period till the time of the great Latin-u we have little to record of Tusculum exceptir frustrated attempt of the Veliterni on its terri­fy (Lir, iv. 3*) and the horrible devastationsununited on it by the Gauls, when in alliance withf 1 iburtines, in B. c. 357. (Id. vii. 11.) Afterr:r long attachment to Rome we are totally at a-s to conjecture the motives of the Tuacufans inirnnj; the Latin cities against her. The warfticli ensued is marked by the well-known anec-•ir of Titus Manhns, who, being challenged byeminus Metritis, the commander of the Tusculanivalry, attacked and killed him, against strict>lrr» to the contrary; for which breach of military'iplnie he was put to death by his father. (Id. ■ 7.) The war ended with the complete suhju-,!i*e> at the Latins ; and by the famous aenaius-miulmm regulating the settlement of Latium, theii-vulans weie treated with great indulgence.i.nr defection was ascribed to the intrigues of a*. and their ri^ht of citixenship was preserved tomil (/•. 14.) This settlement took place in B.C.lo. In 321 the Tuscnlans were accused by theiMiie, U. Flavins, of having supplied the Veliternii4 Privet-nates with the means of carrying on war«irt>t R-ime. There does not appear to liave beenif foundation for this charge; it seems to havein a mere calumny; nevertheless the Tuscnlans,in their wives and children, having put on mourn-t habits, went in a body to Rome, and implored» tribes to acquit them of so odious an iuiputa-<i. 'I'his spectacle moved the compassion of themans, who, without further inquiry, acquittedn-n unanimously; with the exception of the tribe'Ilia, which voted that the men of Tnsculummid he scourged and pot to death, and the womenI children sold, agreeably to the laws of war.lis vote remained indelibly imprinted on the ine­rt of the Tuscnlans to the very latest period of ■ Roman Republic; and it was found that scarce» of the tribo Papiria, to which the Tusculan-. bo­wl, ever voted in favour of a candidate of thebe 1-ollia. (/». 37.) I turulnm always remained a municipium, and>e of its families were distinguished at Rome.I. vi 81—26 ; Orell. Inter. 775, 1368, 3042.)Long them may be mentioned the gens Mamilia,'I'orcia, which produced tho two Catos, theVia, Coruccanla, Jnventia, Fonteia, &c. (CicPine. 8, p. foot 14; Corn. Nep. Cat. 1; VaLix. at 4. § 6.) Hannibal appears to have made an unsuccessfulmint upon, or perhaps rather a mere demonstra- 0 acainst, Tusculum in n. c. 212. (Liv.'xxvi.rf. SiL It, xii. 534.) In the civil wars of Ma-• ml Sulla, its territory seems to have been dis­puted by the latter. (Auct. it Coloniii.) Itslit were also restored, as well as during the warsPcunpey. We have no notices of Tusculum under 1 Kmpire. After the war of Justinian and the in-ids of the Lombards, Tusculum regained evenre than its ancient splendour. For several ceu- | furies during tho middle ages the counts of Tus­culum were supreme in Rome, and could almostdispose of the papal chair. The ancient cityI remained entire till near the end of the 12th cen-j tury. At that period there were constant warsbetween the Tuaculans and Romans, the former ofwhom were supported by the German emperors andprotected by the popes. According to Itomualdus,archbishop of Salerno (a/W Baronium, vol. xix. p.340), the walla of Tusculum were raxed in the pon­tificate of Alexander HI. in the year 1168; butperhaps a more probable account by Richard do S.tierraano (ap. Muralori, Script, t, vii. p. 972) as­cribes the destruction of the city to the permissionof the German emperor in the year 1191. Towards the end of the Republic and beginning ofthe Kmpire, Tusculum was one of the favourite re­sort* of the wealthy Romans. Strabo (v. p. 239) de­scribes the hill on which it was boilt as adornedwith many villas and plantations, especially on theside that looked towards Rome. But though theair was salubrious and the country fine, it does notappear, like Tibur, to have been a favourite resort*of the Roman poets, nor do they speak of it much intheir versos. The Anio, with its fall, besides othernatural beauties, lent a charm to Tibur which wouldhave been sought in vain at Tusculum. Lucullusseems to have been one of the first who built a villathere, which seems to have been on a magnificentscale, but with little arable land attached to it.(Pun. xviii. 7. s. 1.) His parks and gardens, how­ever, which were adorned with aviaries and fish­ponds, extended to the Anio, a distance of severalmiles; whence he was noted in the report of thecensors as making more use of the broom than theplough, (/4. and Varr. Ji. A', i. 13, iii. 3, seq.;Columella, i. 4.) On the road towards Romo, in theVigna Angrlotti. is the ruin of a large circular mau­soleum, 90 feet in diameter inside, and very muchresembling the tomb of Cuecilia Mrtclla on the ViaAppia. It evidently belongs to the last period of theRepublic; and Nibby (/Jttttorni, p 344) is inclinedto regard it as the sepulchre of Lucullus, mentionedby Plutarch ( V'if./.wc43), though that is commonlyidentified with a smaller mausoleum between Fras-cali and the Villa ftttfinella. Besides the villa ofLucullus, we hear of those of Cato, of Cicero and hisbrother Qnintus, of Marcus Brutus, of Q. Hurten-sius, of T. Anicius, of Balbus, of Caesar, of L.Crussus. of Q. Metellus, &c. It would now be vainto seek for the sites of most of these; though it mayperhaps be conjectured that Cato's stood on the hillto the NK. of the town, which seems to have beenculled Hons Porcins from it, and still bears theitame of Monte rorzio. So much interest, however, isattached to the villa of Cicero (Tuscnlanum), as thefavourite retirement in which he probably combur-ed agreat portion of his philosophical works, and especiallythe Disputation! which take their name from it. thatwe shall here present the reader with the chief par­ticulars that can be collected on the subject. Re­specting the site of the villa there have been greatdisputes, one school of toiogntphers seeking it atGrotta f'rrrata, another at the Villa Itnjuurlla.Both these places lie to the W. of Tusculum, butthe latter nearer to it, and on an eminence, whilstGrotta r'errata is in the plain. We have seen fromStrabo that the Roman villas lay chiefly on the W.side of the town; and it will be found further onthat Cicero's adjoined those of Lucullus and <Ia-binius, which were the most splendid and remarkable,