OCR Output 338 [Book IV. CINNA AND SULLA. rainy night and making his way, though not without loss,to the army of Carbo. Sulla himself marched from Rorneinto Etruria with his army in two divisions, one of whichadvancing along the coast defeated the corps opposed to itat Saturnia. (between the rivers Ombrone and Albegna);the second led by Sulla in person fell in with the army ofCarbo in the valley of the Clanis, and after a successfulconflict with his Spanish cavalry fought a pitched battlewith himself in the region of Chiusi. It ended withoutbeing properly decisive, but so far, at any rate, in favour ofCarbo that Sulla's victorious advance was checked. In the vicinity of Rome also events appeared to assumea more favourable turn for the revolutionary party, and thewar seemed as if it would again be attracted chiefly towardsthis region. For, while the oligarchic party were concen­trating all their energies on Etruria, the democracy every­where put forth the utmost efforts to break the blockadeof Praeneste. Even the governor of Sicily Marcus Perpennaset out for that purpose; it does not appear, however, thathe reached Praeneste. Nor was the very considerable corpsunder Marcius, detached by Carbo, more successful; as­sailed and defeated by the troops of the enemy which wereat Spoletium, demoralized by disorder, want of supplies, andmutiny, one portion went to Carbo, another to Ariminum,the rest dispersed. Help in earnest on the other handcame from Southern Italy. There the Samnites underPontius of Telesia, and the Lucanians under their expe­rienced general Marcus Lamponius set out without itsbeing possible to prevent their departure, were joined inCampania where Capua still held out by a division of thegarrison under Gutta, and thus to the number, it was said,of 70,000 marched upon Praeneste. Thereupon Sulla him­self, leaving behind a corps against Carbo, returned toLatium and took up a well-chosen position in the defiles infront of Praeneste, where he intercepted the route of therelieving frmy.* In vain the garrison attempted to breakthrough the lines of Ofella, in vain the relieving army Conflictsabout Prae-neste. * It is stated, that Sulla occupied the defile by which alone Praeneste wasaccessible (App. 1, 90x; and the sequel showed that the road to Home wasopen to him as well as to the relieving army. Beyond doubt Sulla postedhimself on the cross road which turns off from the Via Latina, along whichthe Samnites advanced, at Valmontone towards Palestrina; in this case Sullacommunicated with the capital by the Praenestine, and the enemy by the Latin,or Labium, road.