OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 357 non, and Aristocrates, the son of Sicelius; and otherswho were most deeply concerned in late transac­tions; and from a dread, as they gave our, of the armyat Samos, and Alcibiades, had concurred in sending anembassy to Lacedæmon, lest by unseasonable dissentsfrom the majority they might have done mischief to thepublic. Not that they hasted themselves even now toput an utter end to the oligarchical government, but toinforce the necessity of making use of the five thousandnot merely in name but in act, and to render the politymore equal. This was, it must be owned, the politi­cal scheme which they all pretended; but, through pri­vate ambition, the majority had given into that course,by which an oligarchy, founded upon the ruins of a de~mocracy, is ripe for subversion: For it was the dailyclaim of each single person concerned, not to be equalwith the rest, but to be pre-eminently the first; where­as, when out of a democracy a preference is awarded,the distinction is the more easily brooked, as if it werethe real consequence os superior worth. But what of acertainty elevated them most, was the great influenceof Alcibiades at Samos, and their own conscioulnelsthat this business of an oligarchy carried with it no pros­pect of firm or lasting continuance. A contention,therefore, ensued among them, which of them shouldshew the greatest zeal for the people. But such of the four hundred as made the greatest op­position to this new scheme, and were leaders of theirparty ; — namely, Phrynichus, who formerly, during made large enough for any foot to go into it. He was however a man of great abili­ties, and generally regarded as a lover of his country. His turns were dextrous, well-timed, and made with a view of public good. Caesar, when making Cicero acompliment, likened him to Theramenes. He was deeply concerned in all the subse­quent revo'utions at Athens. He put the finishing hand to the peace with the Lace­dæmonians after the talcing of Athens by Lyfander, when they demolished theirlong walls, opened their harbours, and gave up their shipping. He was afterwards,nominally, one of the thirty tyrants: For he soon began to oppose them; first withmoderation, then with vehemence j which exasperated them so, that they put himto death, A a 3 his