OCR Output 196 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHUS. assurances they had given these their fellow-citizens and confe­derates, and slew them all, being in number many ten thousand[l 3,000]. The like miseries were undergone by those Jewsthat were the inhabitants of Damascus. But we have given amore accurate account of these things in the books of the Jew­ish war. I only mention them now, because I would demon­strate to my readers, that the Jews war with the Romans wasnot voluntary, but that, for the main, they were forced by ne­cessity to enter into it. 7. So when Gessiushad been beaten, as we have said already,the principal men of Jerusalem, seeing that the robbers and in­novators had arms in great plenty, and fearing lest they, whilethey were unprovided of arms, should be in subjection to theirenemies, which also carne to be the case afterward; and, beinginformed that all Galilee had not yet revolted from the Romans,but that some part of it was still quiet, they sent me and twqothers of the priests, who were men of excellent characters, Jozarand Judas, in order to persuade the ill men there to lay downtheityarms, and to teach them this lesson, that it were betler tohave those arms reserved for the most courageous men that thenation had, [than to be kept there] ; for that it had been resolved,that those our best men should always have their arms readyagainst futurity, but still so, that they should wait to see whatthe Romans would do. 8. When I had therefore received these instructions, I cameinto Galilee, and found the people of Sepphorisin no small agonyabout their country, by reason that the Galileans had resolvedto plunder it, on account oi the friendship they had with the Ro­mans, and because they had given their right-hand, and made aleague with Cestius Gallus, the president of Syria. But I de­livered them all out of the fear they were in, and persuaded themultitude to deal kindly with them, and permitted them to sendto those that were their own hostages with Gessius to Dora,which is a city of Phenicia, as often as he pleased ; though" Istill found the inhabitants of Tiberias ready to take arms, andthat on the occasion following : 9. There were three factions in this city. The first was com­posed of men of worth and gravity ; of these Julius Capellus wasthe head. Now he, as well as all his companions, Herod theson of Miarus, and Herod the son of Gamalus, and Compsus theson of Compsus, (for as to Compsus's brother Crispus, who hadonce been governor of the city under the great king * [Agrip-pa], he was beyond Jordan in his own possessions^ ; all these, ' persons * That this Herod.Agrippa, the father, was of old called a Great King, ashere appears by his coins still remaining ; to which Havtrca/rp refers us.