OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 337 an able officer, Quintus Ofella, before Praeneste just as hehad done in the previous year before Capua, with instruc足tions not to expend his strength in the siege of the strongtown, but to enclose it with an extended line of blockadeand starve it into surrender. He himself advanced from Occupationdifferent sides upon the capital, which as well as the whole of Rome.surrounding district he found abandoned by the enemyand occupied without resistance. He barely took time tocompose the minds of the people by an address and to makethe most necessary arrangements, and immediately passedon to Etruria, that in concert with Metellus he might dis足lodge his antagonists from Northern Italy. Metellus had meanwhile encountered and defeated Carbo's Metelluslieutenant Carrinas at the river jEsis (Esino between againstAncona and Sinigaglia), which separated the district of^arb?mPicenum from the Gallic province; when Carbo in person )^[vcame up with his superior army, Metellus had been obligedto abstain from any further advance. But on the news ofthe battle at Sacriportus, Carbo, anxious about his commu足nications, had retreated to the Flaminian road, with a viewto take up his headquarters at its rallying point Ariminum,and from that point to hold the passes of the Apennines onone hand and the valley of the Po on the other. In thisretrograde movement different divisions fell into the handsof the enemy, and not only so, but Sena Gallica was stormedand Carbo's rearguard broken in a brilliant cavalry engage- Carboment by Pompeius; nevertheless Carbo attained on the assailed onwhole his object. The consular Norbanus took the com- 'rj? sld.esmand in the valley of the Po; Carbo himself proceeded toEtruria. But the march of Sulla with his victorious legionsto Etruria altered the position of affairs; soon three Sullanarmies from Gaul, Umbria, and Rome established commu足nications with each other. Metellus with the fleet wentpast Ariminum to Ravenna, and at Faventia cut off thecommunication between Ariminum and the valley of thePo, into which he sent forward a division along the greatroad to Placentia under Marcus Lucullus, the quaestor ofSulla and brother of his admiral in the Mithradatic war.The young Pompeius and his contemporary and rivalCrassus penetrated from Picenum by mountain-paths intoUmbria and gained the Flaminian road at Spoletium, wherethey defeated Carbo's legate Carrinas and shut him up inthe town; he succeeded, however, in escaping from it on a VOL. III. z