OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 211 / they had sent in one of the boldest of them all, I had him whip­ped severely, and I commanded that one of his hands should becut off, and hung about his neck ; and in this case was he putout to those that sent him. At which procedure of mine theywere greatly affrighted, and in no small consternation, and wereafraid that they should themselves be served in like manner, ifthey stayed there ; for they supposed that I had in the housemore armed men than they had themselves; so they ran awayimmediately, while I, by the use of this stratagem, escaped thistheir second treacherous design against me. 31. But there were still some that irritated the multitudeagainst me, and said that those great men that belonged to theking, ought not to be suffered to live, if they would not changetheir religion to the religion of those to whom they fled for safe­ty : they spake reproachfully of them also, and said, that theywere wizards*, and such as called in the Romans upon them.So the multitude was soon deluded by such plausible pretencesas were agreeable to their own inclinations, and were prevailedon by them. But when I was informed of this, I instructed thsmultitude again, that those that fled to them for refuge oughtnot to be persecuted : I also laughed at the allegation aboutwitchcraft *, and told them that the Romans would not maintain'so many ten thousand soldiers, if they could overcome their ene­mies by wizards. Upon my saying this, the people assented fora while ; but they returned afterward, as irritated by some illpeople, against the great men : nay, they once made an assaultupon the house in which they dwelt at Taricheae, in order to killthem ; which, when I was informed of, I was afraid lest so hor­rid a crime should take effect, and no body else would make thatcity their refuge any more. I therefore came myself, and someothers with me, to the house where these great men lived, andlocked their doors, and had a trench drawn from their houseleading to the lake, and sent for a ship, and embarked thereinwith them, and sailed to the confines of Hippos : I also paid them.the value of their horses, nor in such a flight could I have theirhorses brought to them. I then dismissed them, and begged ofthem earnestly that they would courageously bear this distresswhich befel them. I was also myself greatly displeased that Iwas compelled to expose those that had fled to me to go again in­to an enemy's country ; yet did I think it more eligible that theyshould perish among the Romans, if it should so happen, than inthe country that was under my jurisdiction. However, they es- D d 2 caped * Here we may observe the vulgar Jewish notions of witchcraft; but that ourJoscphus was too wise to give any countenance to.