OCR Output SICILIA. S1CILIA. 977 cues of Laestrygones and Cyclopes; but these■ il«u tales, preserved only by the early poets in ainner that renders it impossible to separate truth<a (alstboud, are justly discarded by Thucydidesma worthy of serious consideration (Thuc. vi. 2).may (office to remark, that Homer (of course, therhnt authority on the subject) says nothing <li-n!y la prove that he conceived either the Cy-» or Laestrygones as dwelling in Sicily; and.•in both casta a mere inference of later writers,K-me tradition now unknown to ns. Homerkad, in one passage, mentions (but not in connec-3 with either of these savage races), '' the islandrhrinakiam (Odfu. xii. 127), and this was gene-ly kirntiSed with Sicily, though there is certainlyjing ia the Odyssey that would naturally lead to:k a etioehuion. But it was a tradition generallyrived that Sicily had previously been called Tu­la, from it* triangular form and the threeasaotories that formed its extremities (Thuc. vi. ItmL t. 3 ; Strab. vi p. 265). and this namei Bxmected with the Homeric Thrinakia. It isma thai such a name could only have beenen by Greek navigators, and argues a consider-e amount of acquaintance with the configurationu thnrea. It could not, therefore, have been (ascased even by Thucydides) the original or natives* af the island, nor could it have been in usea among the Greeks at a very early period. Buteacsot discard the general testimony of ancientten, that this was the earliest appellation byrb Sicily waa known to the Greeks.La it her people whom Thucydides, apparentlyL toad reason, regards as more ancient than theda. wen the Sh am, whom we find in historicalm ■■tap-ying the western and north-western partslie aland, whither, according to their own tradi-, they bad been driven by the invading Sicels,a theae crossed the straits, though another tra­ss ascribed their removal to the terror and devas-m caused by the eruptions of Aetna (Thuc. vi. 2;■. r. 6). The Sicanians claimed the honour of. antachthone, or the original inhabitants of theat. and this view waa followed by Timaeus; butrydidem, aa well as I'hilistus, adopted anotherilioa, according to which they) were of Iberian. s n (Thuc. L ft] Diod. /. c). What theevents were which he regards as conclusive, we^.fortunately wholly ignorant; but the view isUeif probable enough, and notwithstanding thei resemblance of name, it is certain that through-tae aJ^"^»l period the Sicani and Siculi arekeenly treated as distinct races. Hence it istriable that they were merely tribes of a kindred• is we should otherwise have been led to inferi the fact that the two names are evidently onlytarns of the same appellation.I taird race which is round in Sicily within the ■»i period, and which is regarded by ancientart as distinct from the two preceding ones,wt of E i ■ i who inhabited the extreme north-en corner of the island, about Kryx and Se­at Tradition ascribed to them a Trojan origin -.vi. 2; Diooys. L 52), and though this story'.'ably worth no more than the numerous simi-lalss of Trojan settlements on the coast of Italy,e niaat probably have been some foundation forL-ijxg them as a distinct people from their neigh-1, the Sicani. Both Thucydides and ScylaxAlly manikin them as such (Thuc. L c.; Scyl.k j 13): bat at a later period, they seem to have gradually disappeared or been merged into thosurrounding tribes, and their name is not againfound in history. Such were the indigenous races by which Sicilywas peopled when its coasts were first visited, andcolonies established there, by the Phoenicians and theGreeks. Of the colonies of the furmer people wehave little information, but we are told in general byThucydides that they occupied numerous pointsarouud the coasts of the island, establishing them­selves in preference, as was their wont, on projectingheadlands or small islands adjoining the shore.(Thuc. vi. 2). But these settlements were appa­rently, for the most part, mere trading stations, andas the Greeks came to establish themselves perma­nently and in still increasing numbers in Sicily, thePhoenicians gradually withdrew to the KW. cornerof the island, where they retained three permanentsettlements, Motya, Panormus, and Soloeis or Solun-tum. Here they were supported by the alliance ofthe neighbouring Elymi, and had also the advantageof the proximity of Carthage, upon which they nilbecame eventually dependent. (Thuc. /. c.) The settlement of the Greek colonies in Sicilybegan about the middle of the eighth century B. c,and was continued for above a century and a half.Their dates and origin are known to us with muchmore certainty than those which took place duringthe corresponding period in the south of Italy. Thoearliest were established on the E. coast of the island,where the Chalcidic colony of Naxob was foundedin B.C. 735, and that of Syracuse the followingyear (b. c. 734), by a body of Corinthian settlersunder Archias. Thus the division between the Chal­cidic and Doric colonies in Sicily, which bears asprominent a part in their political history, becamemarked from the very outset. The Chalcidians werethe first to extend their settlements, having foundedwithin a few years of the parent colony (about B. c.730) the two cities of Leostcu and Catana, bothof them destined to bear an important part in theaffairs of Sicily. About the same time, or shortlyafter (probably about b. c. 728), a fresh body ofcolonists from Megara founded the city of the samename, called, for distinction's sake, Megara 11LAKA, on the £. coast, between Syracuse and Catana.The first colony on the S. coast of the island wasthat of Gela, founded in b. c. 690, by a body ofemigrants from Rhodes and Crete; it was, therefore,a Doric colony. On the other hand, the Chalcidiansfounded, at what precise period we know not, thecolony of Zascle (afterwards called Messaxa). ina position of the utmost importance, as commandingthe Sicilian Straits. The rapid rise and prosperityof these first settlements are shown by their havingbecome in their turn the parents of other cities,which soon vied with them, and, in some cases, sur­passed them in importance. Thus we find Syracu.-eextending its power by establishing in succession thecolonies of Ackas in b. c. 664, Casmksak in b. c.644, and I .uuxiia in B. a 599. Of these, thelast alone rose to be a flourishing city and the rivalof the neighbouring Gela. The latter city in itsturn founded the colony of AoHlOBHTtm, in B. c.580, which, though one of the latest of the Greekcolonies in the island, was destined to become one ofthe most powerful and flourishing of them alL Stillfurther to the W.. the colony of Selinis, planted asearly as B. c 628, by a body of settlers from theHyblaean Megara, reinforced with emigrants fromthe parent city in Greece, rose to a state of; 3 R