OCR Output B. VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. aor rinthian. By these the Syracusans were now assisted incarrying on their work, till it was completely joined tothe traverse-wall. Gylippus now made a circuit over Sicily, in order topromote the common cause; and to procure additionalforces tor the services both of land and sea; and to soli--cit the concurrence ot such States as hitherto had mani­fested, either no great inclination, or an open repug­nance, to join in the present war. Other embassadorsalso were dispatched, by the Syracusans and Corinthians,to Lacedæmon and Corinth, instructed to solicit a spee­dy reinforcement, to be transported into Sicily either intrading-vessels, or in boats, or by any other expeditiousmethods, since the Athenians had also sent for reinforce­ments from Athens. The Syracusans also assigned com­plements of men to their shipping, and sedulously train­ed them to the service of the sea, as designing on this e-lement also to try their fortune; nay, they labouredwith alacrity and application to increaie their strength inall respects. Nicias, being sensible of this, and conscious that thestrength of the enemy and his own inability becamedaily greater, dispatched his messengers also to Athens,a custom he had ever observed, and upon all occasions,to report the particulars of his proceedings. But in hispresent situation it was more requisite than ever; sincenow he was convinced that he was environed with dan­gers; and unless, with the utmost expedition, they ei-called their troops, or sent them another, and that astrong, reinforcement, no hopes of preservation remain­ed. Apprehensive, farther, that the persons he shouldfend, either through want of proper address, or throughdefect of courage, or a passion to soothe the populace,might suppress the truth, he sent a true account os thingsin a letter wrote with his own hand. By this methodhe concluded that his own sentiments of things couldnot be concealed or invalidated by messengers; that theAthenians would be informed of the truth, and might accordingly