OCR Output 274 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. towards the end of his life new troubles disturbed his reign;and, while the grandees of the kingdom and in fact hisown brother Orodes rebelled against the king and at lengththat brother overthrew him and put him to death, the hither-Armenia, to unimportant Armenia rose into power. This country,which since its declaration of independence (ii. 274) had beendivided into the north-eastern portion or Armenia proper,the kingdom of the Artaxiadae, and the south-western orSophene, the kingdom of the Zariadridae, was for the firsttime united into one kingdom by the Artaxiad Tigranea94. (who had reigned since 660); and this doubling of hispower on the one hand, and the weakness of the Parthianrule on the other, enabled the new king of all Armenia notonly to free himself from dependence on the Parthians andto recover the provinces formerly ceded to them, but evento bring to Armenia the titular supremacy of Asia, as ithad passed from the Achaemenids to the Seleucids and fromthe Seleucids to the Arsacids.Asia Minor. Lastly in Asia Minor the territorial arrangements, whichhad been made under Roman influence after the dissolutionof the kingdom of Attalus (P. 56), still subsisted in themain unchanged; except that Great Phrygia, after GaiusGracchus had discovered the dealings between MithradatesEuergetes and the consul Aquillius (P. 120), had beenagain withdrawn from the king of Pontus and united as afree country with the Roman province of Asia, like Hellas120. with Macedonia (about 634). In the condition of thedependent states—the kingdoms of Bithynia, Cappadocia,Pontus, the principalities of Paphlagonia and Galatia, thenumerous city-leagues and free towns—no outward changewas at first discernible. But, intrinsically, the character ofthe Roman rule had certainly everywhere undergone amaterial alteration. Partly through the constant growth ofoppression naturally incident to every tyrannic government,partly through the indirect operation of the Roman revo­lution—in the seizure, for instance, of the property of thesoil in the province of Asia by Gaius Gracchus, in the Romantenths and customs, and in the human hunts which thecollectors of revenue added to their other avocations there—the Roman rule, barely tolerable even from the first, pressedso heavily on Asia that neither the king's crown nor thepeasant's hut there was any longer safe from confiscation,that every stalk of corn seemed to grow for the Boman