OCR Output an. 1532.] 89 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. lawful for us to set them down directly, wewill declare their import. The first commandment teaches us, thatthere is but one God, and that we ought toworship him only. The second, commandsus not to make the image of any living crea­ture to worship it. The third, that we mustnot swear by God in a false matter. Thefourth, that we must keep the seventh day, byresting from all sort of work. The fifth, thatwe must honour our parents.* The sixth,that we must abstain from murder. Theseventh, that we must not commit adultery.The eighth, that we must not be guilty oftheft. The ninth, that we must not bear falsewitness. The tenth, that we must not admitof the desire of any thing that is another's.f Now when the multitude had heard Godhimself giving those precepts which Moseshad discoursed of, they rejoiced at what wassaid; and the congregation was dissolved.But on the following day they came to histent, and desired him to bring them besidesother laws from God. Accordingly he ap­pointed such laws, and afterward informedthem in what manner they should act in allcases; which laws I shall mention in theirproper place: but I shall reserve most ofthem for\ another work: and make there adistinct explication of them. When matters were brought to this state,Moses went up again to mount Sinai, of whichhe had told them beforehand. He made hisascent in their sight; but when he had beenabsent from them forty days, fear seized uponthe Hebrews, lest he should have come toany harm. Nor was there any thing that somuch troubled them, as the idea that Moseshad perished. Now there was a variety intheir sentiments about it; some saying thathe was fallen among wild beasts; and thosethat were of this opinion were chiefly such aswere ill disposed to him; but others sayingthat he was departed and gone to God. Thewiser sort were led, by their reason, to em­brace neither of those opinions with anysatisfaction; thinking that as it was a thing that sometimes happens to men, to fall amongwild beasts and perish that way, so it wasprobable enough that he might depart andgoto God, on account of his virtue; theytherefore were quiet, and expected the event;though they were exceeding sorrowful uponthe probability that they were deprived of agovernor, and a protector; such an one, in­deed, as they could never recover again.Nor would this suspicion give them leave toexpect any comfortable event about this man:nor could they prevent their trouble and me­lancholy upon this occasion. However thecamp durst not move all this while: becauseMoses had commanded them to stay there. When forty days and as many nights wereexpired, Moses came down; having tastednothing of food usually appointed for thenourishment of men. His appearance filledthe army with gladness; and he declared tothem, what care God had of them, and bywhat manner of conduct they might live hap­pily: telling them that, during his absence,God had suggested to him|| also that he wouldhave a tabernacle built for him, into whichhe would descend when he came to them;and how they^hould carry it about with themwhen they removed: and that there shouldbe no longer any occasion for going up tomount Sinai; but that he would himself comeand pitch his tabernacle amongst them, andbe present at their prayers. As also that thetabernacle should be of such measures andconstruction as he had shewed him; and thatthe work must he immediately begun, andprosecuted diligently. When he had saidthis, he shewed them the two tables, with theTen Commandments engraven upon them,five upon each table, and the writing was bythe hand of God. CHAP. VI. OF THE TABERNACLE WHICH MOSES BUILT IN THE WILDER­NESS, FOR THE HONOUR OF COD. N OW the Israelites rejoiced at what theyhad seen and heard of their conductor; * As disobedience to parents is, by the law of Moses,threatened to be punished with death; so, on the contrary,long life is promised to the obedient; and that in theirown country, which God had peculiarly enriched withabundance of blessings. Heathens also gave the verysame encouragement, saying, that such children should bedear to the gods, both living and dying. So Euripides. It was also one of their promises, Thou shalt live long,if thou nourish thy ancient parents. Whence children arecalled by Xenophon TspoSoirxoi. Patrick, in locum. B. t Exod. xx. I to 18. J This other work of Josephus's, here referred to,does not appear to have been ever published. II It is a query whether Josephus, in all his own trans-