OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 497 his residence in the capital These oblations, for the mostpart, were made in money; nor was the society of Christians eitherdesirous or capable of acquiring, to any considerable degree, theincumbrance of a landed property. It had been provided by severallaws, which were enacted with the fame design as our statutes ofmortmain, that no real estates should be given or bequeathed to anycorporate body, without either a special privilege or a particulardispensation from the emperor or from the senate "JJ, who wereseldom disposed to grant them in favour of a sect, at first the objectof their contempt, and at last of their fears and jealousy. Atransaction however is related under the reign of Alexander Severus,which discovers that the restraint was sometimes eluded or sus­pended, and that the Christians were permitted to claim and topossess a piece of ground within the limits of Rome itself,,<S. Theprogress of Christianity, and the civil confusions of the empire,contributed to relax the severity of the laws, and before the closeof the third century many considerable estates were bestowed on theopulent churches of Rome, Milan, Carthage, Antioch, Alexandria,and the other great cities of Italy and the provinces. The bishop was the natural steward of the church', the public Distributionstock was entrusted to his care without account or controul: the ofthe 'revenue. presbyters were confined to their spiritual functions, and the moredependent order of deacons was solely employed in the manage­ment and distribution of the ecclesiastical revenue "7. If we maygive credit to the vehement declamations of Cyprian, there weretoo many among his African brethren, who, in the execution oftheir charge, violated every precept, not only of evangelic perfection,but even of moral virtue. By some of these unfaithful stewardsthe riches of the church were lavished in sensual pleasures, by othersthey were perverted to the purposes of private gain, of fraudulentpurchases, and of rapacious usury "\ But as long as the contri-v butions of the Christian people were free, and unconstrained, theVol. I. S s s abuse