OCR Output AM. 1800.J 41 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in all that he desired, he promised him, thatof the young cattle which should be born, heshould have sometimes what was of a whitecolour, and sometimes what should be of ablack colour; but when those that came toJacob's share proved numerous, he did notkeep his faith with him, but said he wouldgive them to him the next year, because ofhis envying him the multitude of his posses­sions. He promised him as before, becausehe thought such an increase was not to be ex- Eected: but when it appeared to be the fact,e again deceived him.But with regard to the sacred images,Jacob bid them search for them; and whenLaban accepted of the offer, Rachel beinginformed of it, put those images in that camel'ssaddle on which she rode, and sat upon it;and by a well-timed excuse* evaded the ne­cessity of rising up; s0 Laban left off search­ing any farther, not supposing that his daugh­ter would conceal his images. He then madea league with Jacob, that he would not bearhim any malice on account of what had hap­pened; and Jacob made the like league, andpromised to love Laban's daughters; andthese leagues they confirmed with oaths uponcertain mountains, whereon they erected apillar, in the form of an altar; whence thathill is called Gilead, and from thence theycall that land the Land of Gilead at this day.Now when they had feasted,t after makingthe league, Laban returned home.}: CHAP. XX. of Jacob's interview with his brother esau. N OW as Jacob was proceeding on hisjourney to the land of Canaan, angels appeared to him, and suggested to him goodhope of his future condition; and that placehe named the Camp of God; and being de­sirous of knowing his brother's intentions, hesent messengers to give him an exact accountof every thing, being afraid, on account ofthe enmity between them. He charged thosethat were sent, to say to Esau, that " Jacobhad thought it wrong to live together withhim, while he was incensed against him, andso had gone out of the country; but now,thinking the time of his absence must havemade up their differences, was returning; thathe brought with him his wives and his chil­dren, with what possessions he had gotten,and delivered himself, with what was mostdear to him, into his hands; and should thinkit his greatest happiness to partake, togetherwith his brother, of what God had bestowedon him. When this message was delivered, Esauwas very glad, and met his brother with fourhundred men: but when Jacob heard that hewas coming to meet him with such a number,he was greatly afraid. However, he com­mitted his hope of deliverance to God: andconsidered how in his present circumstanceshe might preserve himself, and those thatwere with him, and overcome his enemies,if they attacked him injuriously. He there­fore distributed his company into parts; somehe sent before the rest,|| and the others heordered to come close behind: that if thefirst were overpowered, when his brother at­tacked them they might have those that fol­lowed as the refuge to flee unto; and whenhe had put his company in this order, he sentsome of them to his brother, with presentsof cattle, and a great number of four-footedbeasts of many kinds, such as would be very * Gen. xxxi. 35. t Gen. xxxi. 55. J This league appears to have been made with peculiarcircumstances: especially with the singular rite of makingan heap of stones, and eating upon it, and setting up onestone for a pillar. Gen. xxxi. 45, 46. Niebuhr, relatinghis audience with the rinam of Yemen, says, " I had gonefrom mylod<*ings indisposed, and by standing so long foundmyself so faint, that I was obliged to ask permission to quitthe room. I found near the door some of the principalofficers of the court, who were sitting in a scattered man­ner, in the shade, upon stones, by the side of the wall.Among them was the Nakit, (the general, or rather masterof the horse.) Cheir Allah, with whom I had some ac­quaintance before. He immediately resigned nis place to me, and applied himself to draw together stones into anheap, to build himself a new seat." This managementmight be owing to various causes. The extreme heat ofthe ground might render sitting there disagreeable. Thesame inconvenience might arise also from its wetness. Itwas certainly a very common practice; and, as 't appearsfrom the instance of Jacob, a very ancient one. Harmer'tObservations, Vol. iii. p, 215. B. II Jacob appears to have been very cautious in conduct­ing both his family and his flocks in their journey. Hewas particularly desirous of preserving them. They wouldhave been exposed to great danger by haste. Preparedas the Arabs are for speedy flight, a quick motion is verydestructive to the young of their flocks. Chardin says"Their flocks feed down, the places of their encampmen