OCR Output 232 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. their side. But about these two sects, and that of the Essens,I have treated accurately in the second book of Jewish affairs. 7. But when Hyrcanus had put an end to this sedition, heafter that lived happily, and administered the government inthe best manner for thirty-one years, and then * died; leavingbehind him five sons. He was esteemed by God worthy of thethree greatest privileges, the government of his nation, thedignity of the high priesthood, and prophecy, for God waswith him, and enabled him to know futurities; and to foretellthis in particular, that as to his two eldest sons, he foretold thatthey would not long continue in the government of public af­fairs; whose unhappy catastrophe will be worth our description,that we may thence learn how very much they were inferior totheir father's happiness. CHAP. XI. Hem Aristobulus, when he had taken the government, first of allput a diadem on his head, and was most barbarously cruel tohis mother and his brethren; and how after he had slainAntigonus he himself died. § 1. .Now when their father Hyrcanus was dead, the eldestson Aristobulus, intending to change the government into akingdom, for so he resolved to do, first of all put a diadem * Here ends the high priesthood, and the life of this excellent person JohnHyrcanus, and together with him the holy theocracy or divine government of theJewish nation, and its concomitant oracle by Prim. Now follows the profaneand tyrannical Jewish monarchy, first of the Assamonians or Maccabees, and thenof Herod the Great, the Idumean, till the coming of the Messiah. See the noteon Antiq. B. III. chap. viii. sect. 9. Hear Strabo's testimony on this occasion,B. XVI. page 761, 762. "Those, says he, that succeeded Moses, continued for"some time in earnest, both in righteous actions, and in piety; but after a while,"there were others that took upon them the high priesthood; at first superstitious,"and afterwards tyrannical persons. Such a prophet was Moses and those that suc-"ceeded him, beginning in a way not to be blamed, but changing for the worse."And when it openly appeared that the government was become tyrannical, Alex-"ander was the first that set up himself for a king instead of a priest; and his sons"were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus." All in agreement with Josephus, excepting this,that Srabo omits the first king Aristobulus, whose reign being but a single year,seems haidly to have come to his knowledge. Nor indeed does Aristobulus, the sonof Alexander, pretend that the name of long was taken before his father Alexandertook it himself. Antiq. B. XIV. chap. iii. sect. 2. See also chap. xii. sect. 1. whichfavour Strabo also. (And indeed if we may judge from the very different charactersof the Egyptian Jews under high priests, and of the Palestine Jews under kings,in the two next centuries, we may well suppose, that the divine Shechinah wasremoved into Egypt, and that the worshippers at the temple of Onias were bettermen than those at the temple of Jersualem.