OCR Output C. Xlii.] AND SACRILEGE. 229 also kept Josephus's father in prison, and made public pro­clamation, that no citizen whatsoever should either speak tohim himself, or go into his company among others, for fearhe should betray them. They also slew such as joined inlamenting these men without any farther examination. 2. Now when Judas, tho son of Judas, who was one ofSimon's under-officers, and a person intrusted by him to keepone of the towers, saw this procedure of Simon, he calledtogether ten of those under him, that were most faithful tohim (perhaps this was done partly out of pity to those thathad so barbarously been put to death, but principally in orderto provide for his own safety,) and spake thus to them: —" How long shall we bear these miseries? or what hopes havewe of deliverance by thus continuing faithful to such wickedwretches ? Is not the famine already come against us ? Arenot the Romans in a manner gotten within the city? Is notSimon become unfaithful to his benefactors ? and is there notreason to fear he will very soon bring us to the like punish­ment, while the security the Romans offer us is sure ? Comeon, let us surrender up this wall, and save ourselves and thecity. Nor will Simon be very much hurt, if, now he despairsof deliverance, he be brought to justice a little sooner thanhe thinks on." Now these ten were prevailed upon by thosearguments; so he sent the rest of those that were under himsome oi;o way and some another, that no discovery might bemade of what they had resolved upon. Accordingly, hecalled to the Romans from the tower about the third hour;but they, some of them out of pride, despised what he said,and others of them did not believe him to be in earnest,though the greatest number delayed the matter, as believingthey should get possession of the city in a little time withoutany hazard. But when Titus was just coming thither withhis armed men, Simon was acquainted with the matter beforehe came, and presently took the tower into his own custodybefore it was surrendered, and seized upon these men, andput them to death in the sight of the Romans themselves ;and when he had mangled their dead bodies, he threw themdown before the wall of the city.IV. —20