OCR Output 13* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. BOOK XII. CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF A HUNDRED AND SEVENTYYEARS. [FROM THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT, TO THEDEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEES.] CHAP. I. How Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, took Jerusalem and Judea bydeceit and treachery, and carried many of the Jews thence,and planted them in Egypt. § 1. -Now when Alexander, king of Macedon, had put anend to the dominion of the Persians, and had settled the affairsin Judea after the forementioned manner, he ended his life.And as his government fell among many, Antigonus obtainedAsia; Seleucus, Babylon; and of the other nations which werethere, Lysimachus governed the Hellespont, and Cassander pos­sessed Macedonia; as did Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, seize uponEgypt. And while these princes ambitiously strove one againstanother, every one for his own principality, it came to pass thatthere were continual wars, and those lasting wars too; and thecities were sufferers, and lost a great many of their inhabi­tants in these times of distress, insomuch that all Syria, by themeans of Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, underwent the reverse ofthat denomination of Saviour, which he then had. He alsoseized upon Jerusalem, and for that end made use of deceit andtreachery: for as he came into the city on a Sabbath-day, as ifhe would offer sacrifices, he without any trouble, gained thecity while the Jews did not oppose him, for they did not sus­pect him to be their enemy; and he gained it thus, becausethey were free from suspicion of him, and because on that daythey were at rest and quietness; and when he had gained it, heruled over it in a cruel manner. Nay, Agatharchides of Cni-dus, who wrote the acts of Alexander's successors, reproachesus with superstition, as if we, by it, had lost our liberty; wherehe says thus; " There is a nation called the nation of the Jews,"who inhabit a city strong and great, named Jerusalem."These men took no care, but let it come into the hands of"Ptolemy, as not willing to take arms, and thereby they sub-"mitted to be under a hard master, by reason of their vmsea­