OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 299 orders political factions had without exception been unitedin opposing the public foe; but Romans of note foughtunder the standards of Mithradates, large districts of Italydesired to enter into alliance with him, and it was at leastdoubtful whether the democratic party would follow theglorious example that Sulla had set before it, and keep trucewith him so long as he was fighting against the Asiaticking. But the vigorous general, who had to contend withall these embarrassments, was not accustomed to trouble him­self about more remote dangers before finishing the task im­mediately in hand. When his proposals of peace addressedto the king, which substantially amounted to a restorationof the state of matters before the war, met with no accept­ance, he advanced, just as he had landed, from the harboursof Epirus to Boeotia, defeated the generals of the enemy Greece oc-Archelaus and Aristion there at Mount Tilphossium, and copied,after that victory possessed himself almost without resist­ance of the whole Grecian mainland with the exception ofthe fortresses of Athens and the Piraeeus, into which Aristionand Archelaus had thrown themselves, and which he failedto carry by a coup de main. A Roman division under LuciusHortensius occupied Thessaly and made incursions intoMacedonia; another under Munatius stationed itself beforeChalcis, to keep off the enemy's corps under Neoptolemusin Eubcea; Sulla himself formed a camp at Eleusis and Me-gara, from which he commanded Greece and the Pelopon­nesus, and prosecuted the siege of the city and harbour ofAthens. The Hellenic cities, governed as they always wereby their immediate fears, submitted unconditionally to theRomans, and were glad when they were allowed to ransomthemselves from more severe punishment by supplying pro­visions and men and paying fines. The sieges in Attica advanced less rapidly. Sulla found Protractedhimself compelled to prepare all sorts of heavy besieging siege ofimplements, for which the trees of the Academy and the f}b^!s andLyceum had to supply the timber. Archelaus conductedthe defence with equal vigour and judgment; he armed thecrews of his vessels, and thus reinforced repelled the attacksof the Romans with superior strength and made frequentand not seldom successful sorties. The Pontic army ofDromichaetes advancing to the relief of the city was defeatedunder the walls of Athens by the Romans after a severestruggle, in which Sulla's brave legate Lucius Licinius Mu-