OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 191 give up the assault, and to march onward to Italy past thecamp. For six successive days they continued to defile—aproof of the cumbrousness of their baggage still more thanof the immensity of their numbers. The general permittedthe march to proceed without attacking them. We caneasily understand why he did not allow himself to be ledastray by the insulting inquiries of the enemy whether theRomans had no commissions for their wives at home; butthe fact, that he did not take advantage of this rash defilingof the barbarian columns in front of the concentrated Romantroops for the purpose of attack, shows how little he trustedhis unpractised soldiers. When the march was over, he broke up his encampment Battle ofand followed in the steps of the enemy, preserving rigorous Muie Sex"order and carefully entrenching himself night after night. ilX"The Teutones, who were striving to gain the coast road,marching down the banks of the Rhone reached the districtof Aquae Sextiae, followed by the Romans. The light Ligu-rian troops of the Romans, as they were drawing water,here came into collision with the Celtic rear-guard, theAmbrones; the conflict soon became general; after a hotstruggle the Romans conquered and pursued the retreatingenemy up to their waggon-stronghold. This first successfulcollision elevated the spirits of the general as well as of thesoldiers; on the third day after it Marius drew up his arrayfor a decisive battle on the hill, the summit of which borethe Roman camp. The Teutones, long impatient to measurethemselves against their antagonists, immediately rushed upthe hill and began the conflict. It was severe and protracted:up to midday the Germans stood like a wall; but the un­wonted heat of the Provencal sun relaxed their energies,and a false alarm in their rear, where a band of Roman camp-boys ran forth from a wooded ambuscade with loud shouts,fully decided the breaking up of the wavering ranks. Thewhole horde was scattered, and, as was to be expected in aforeign land, either put to death or taken prisoners. Amongthe captives was King Teutobod; among the killed a multi­tude of women, who, not unacquainted with the treatmentwhich awaited them as slaves, had caused themselves to beslain in desperate resistance at their waggons, or had putthemselves to death in captivity, after having vainly re­quested to be dedicated to the service of the gods and of thesacred virgins of Vesta (summer of 652). 102.