OCR Output CHAP. 37. ROMAN HISTORY. 15§ Now he felt the impression more forcibly. But stillhesitating and putting it oil', he was struck with a palsy,all over his body. It was then that the wrath of thegods roused him from his lethargy; for, afflicted by hisformer calamities, and oppressed with the weight of hispresent trouble, he called a meetmg of his nearest friends,'and telling them all he had heard and seen, how Jupiterhad often appeared to him in a dream; how he hadbeen threatened, and the calamities in consequence,which the gods had inflicted oh him; by the unanimousadvice of all present, he was conveyed to the consuls ina litter, into the forum. By their order he was trans­ported from thence into the senate-house; and when hehad made the same relation there, another extraordinarycircumstance happened, to the surprise of every body;the man who was carried thither, without the use of asingle member, returned, as the story goes, upon hisown legs. CHAP. XXXVfl. Tullui's plan for spiriting up -the Vdsci against Rome. 1 HE senate decreed, that the games should be cele­brated with all possible magnificence. At the desire ofAttius Tullus, vast numbers of the Volscian youth re­paired to Rome to see them. Before the exhibition,Tullus waited on the consuls as had been concerted athome with Martins, and tells them Ire had something ofimportance to communicate that concerned the state.Having retired where they could not be overheard, hetold them, " h is with the utmost reluctancy that I am to"mention any circumstance that may seem to reflect"the teast dishonour on my countrymen: but I come"not to accuse them of any thing they have alreadyl•' done, but to put you on your guard, with respect to"what they may do. The disposition Of my country-"men is by far more fluctuating and restless than I"could wish. This we have felt to our cost, since we"owe our existence as a nation, at present, more to"your good nature, than our own good behaviour."There are in the city at this moment, vast numbers of"the Volsct. The scene of exhibition will soon open.