OCR Output TACARAEI. 1(K«3 TAENARUM. nitful, but its harbour mn bad. (Geogr. Nub.am iii. pt. ii. p. 67.) In earlj times it was sub-■t to Byxacinm; bat subsequently, as a Romanleny, brlongrd to the Regio Tripolitana. of whichwas tie moiit westerly town. In its neighbour­ly were warm mineral springs called the Aquaeu-apitante (//«. Ant. p. 78), now El-Ilammah.t Plin. t. 4. a. 3; I tin. Ant. pp. 48, 50, 59, &c,i-re it a called Tacapae). Now Gobi, Cabet, ormOa. [T. H. D.] TACARAEI (Toxootuoi, Ptol. vii. 2. § 15), arintain tribe of India extra Gangem, who lived inr extreme NW. near the junction of the ImausI Kmodus chains, adjoining the Mons llepyrrhus.!" ma»t have occupied part of the district nowlid Aamn. [V.]TACHOMPSO (TaXo^iJ, Herod, ii. 29; Ta-npaos. Plin. vi. 29. a. 33; Mela, i. 9. § 2), a towntlie Regio Dodecaschoenus, S. of Aegypt and thetaracta. It stood upon an island of the Nile, and ■ inhabited by a mixed colony of Aegyptians andthinpiana. The Coptic word Tachempsa Minifiesbe place of many crocodiles," Tachompso wantad ea the E. bank of the river, lat. 23° 12' N.,irty appaaite the town uf Pselcis. As Pselcis in-a*ed, Tachompso declined, so that it at last was re- icd aa merely a suburb of that town, and went by•urne of Contra- Pselcis. Though supposed by somebare been near the modern village of Conzo inrev Nubia, it is impossible to reconcile any knownihty with the ancient descriptions of this place,even (African Nations, vol. i. pp. 346, 383)■>!«*. it to have been either at the island Kalabihe1 ■;•<) or 20 miles further S as Ghyrshe. He-'•vi (JL e.) describes the island on which Ta­mpa* stood as a plain contignons to a vast hike.1 neither each a lake nor island now appear in> part of the Nile's course. The lake may have ■ the result of a temporary inundation, and themi gradually undermined and carried away bvp-riolical floods. [W. B. I).]rACOXA (TdawAo, Ptol. vii. 2. § 5), a placeDie west coast of the Aurea Cbersonesns, ius extra Gangem, which Ptolemy calls an ein-ta. There can be no doubt that it is repre-ed now by either 7oroy or Ttnasserim. [V.]TACITBIS (TaKovtii, l'tol. ii. 5. § 7), a placeositania. [T.H.D.]APEft, a river on the S. coast of HL-punia Tar- maria. (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4.) It is probably indi-d by Ptolemy (ii. 6. § 14) under TipiSos to­rn* ■ >i. Now the Segura. [T. H. D.]'ADINUM (ftA. Tadinas: Ru. near Gualdo), an uf Cnibria, mentioned by Pliny among the■opal towns of that region. (Plin. iii. 14. s.) It is not noticed by any other ancient authorions to the fall of the Western Empire; but itsle is repeatedly found in the epistles of GregoryGreat, axad it is evidently the same place called;'i supiua Taginae (TAyiMi, Procop. B. G. iv. near which the Gothic king Totila was de-id by Jtairsea in a great battle, in which he was•elf mortally wounded, A. I). 552. The site isrty fixed by the discovery of some ruins andr ancient monuments in 1750 at a place alioutile and a half from Gualdo, wheretherc U an old-a consecrated in the middle ages toSni MariaGualdo is about 9 miles N. of Noctrn^ rloae to the line of the Flaminian Way:T there n little doubt that we should substituteiaaj for "Puma*," a name obviously corrupt, given in the Jerusalem Itinerary as a station on theFlaminian Way. (/(in, llier. p. 614; Wesseling,ad toe.; Cramer, Italy, vol. L p. 267.) [E. H. B.] TADMOR. [Palmyra.] TADU (Plin. vi. 29. s. 35; comp. Strab. xvii.p. 786), a small island of the Nile that formed theharbour of the city of Meroe. Bruce (Trace!*, vol.iv. p. 618) supposes Tadu to have been the modernCvrgo, N. of Schendy. As, however the site ofMeme is much disputed, that of Tadu is equallyuncertain (Ritter,Erdkund.vol. i. p. 567). |W.B.I)'] TAE'NARUM (Too-apo!-, Herod. Strab. et alii;t) Taivapla &Kpa, Ptol. iii. 16. § 9), a promontoryat the extremity of Laconia, and the most southerlypoint of Europe, now cnlled C. Matapan. Timname of Taenarum, however, was not confined tothe extreme point bearing the name of Matapdn.It has been shown by Leake that it was the namegiven to the peninsula of circular form about sevenmiles in circumference, which is connected with theend of the great Taygetic promontory by an isthmusabout half a mile wide in a direct distance. HenceTaenarum is correctly described by Strabo as aneWrb iKKUfUirn (viii. p. 363). Leake conjectureswith great probability that Matapan is merelyanother form of Mirumov, which may bave beenthe name given by the ancients to the southern ex­tremity of the peninsula. (Morca, vol. i. p. 301.)On cither side of the isthmus, which connects thepromontory of Taenarum with that of Taygetns, isa bay, of which the one on the east is called PortoQuaglio, corrupted into A'aio, and the one on thewest Marinari or Marmdri. The name of Quagliowas given to the eastern bay by the Venetians, lie-cause it was the Inst place in Europe at which thequails rested in the autumn before crossing over toCrete and Cyrene. Porto Quaylio is one of thebest harbours in Laconia, being sheltered from theS. and SE.; it is nearly circular, with a narrowentrance, a fine sandy bottom, and depth of waterfor large Bhips. Porto Marmdri is described asonly a dangerous creek. In the Taenarian penin­sula there are also two porta on its eastern side, ofwhich the northern, called Vathy, is a long narrowinlet of the sea, while the southern, called Aivnuitnor Kistcrne*, is very small and ill sheltered. Aquarter of a mile southward of the inner extremityof the last-mentioned port, a low point of rock pro­jects into the sea from the foot of the mountain,which, according to the inhahitanta of the peninsula,is the real C. Matapan. The western 6ide of thopeninsula is rocky and harbourless. The whole of the Taenarian peninsula was sacredto Poseidon, who appears to have succeeded to thoplace of Helios, the more ancient god of the locality.(Horn. Hymn, m ApolL 411.) At the extremity ofthis peninsula was the temple of Poseidon, with anasylum, which enjoyed great celebrity down to alate period. It seems to have been an ancientAchaean sanctuary before the Dorian conquest, andto have continued to be the chief sacred place otthe Perioeci and Helots. The great earthquake,which reduced Sparta to a heap of ruins in b. c.464, was supposed to have been owing to theLacedaemonians having torn away some suppliantHelots from this sanctuary. (Thuc. i. 128, 133;Paus. iii. 25. § 4; Strab. viii. p. 363; Earip. CycL292.) Near the sanctuary was a cavern, throughwhich Hercules is said to have dragged Cerbems tothe upper regions. (Paus. Strab. ll.ee.; Pind. Pylh.iv. 77; Tacnariae faucet, Virg. Ceory. iv. 467;