OCR Output 414 ROMAN EMPIRE. the same revolution was renewed by a similar cause:and in the support of an incomprehensible creed, thezeal of the Coptic Christians was equally ardent. Ihave already explained the origin and progress of theMonophysite controversy, and the persecution of theemperors, which converted a sect into a nation, andalienated Egypt from their religion and government.The Saracens were received as the deliverers of the Ja­cobite church; and a secret and effectual treaty wasopened during the siege of Memphis between a victoriousarmy and a people of slaves. A rich and noble Egyp­tian, of the name of Mokawkas, had dissembled his faithto obtain the administration of his province; in the dis­orders of the Persian war he aspired to independence;the embassy of Mahomet ranked him among princes; buthe declined, with rich gifts and ambiguous compliments,the proposal of a newreligion.q The abuse of his trust ex­posed him to the resentment of Heraclius; his submissionwas delayed by arrogance and fear; and his consciencewas prompted by interest to throw himself on the favourof the nation and the support of the Saracens. In hisfirst conference with Amrou, he heard without indigna­tion the usual option of the Koran, the tribute, or thesword. The Greeks (replied Mokawkas) are determinedto abide the determination of the sword; but with theGreeks I desire no communion, either in this world or inthe next, and I abjure for ever the Byzantine tyrant, hitsynod of Chalcedon, and his Melchite slaves. For my­self and my brethren, we are resolved to live and die inthe profession of the gospel and unity of Christ. Itis impossible for us to embrace the revelations ofyourpro­ tom. 2. p. 774. Mentor. Sicul. torn. 3. lib. 17. p. 197. edit. Wesseling. Tm ni:-ra na-iBwTort tit TO !•{»i says the last of these historians. i Mokawkas sent the prophet two Coptic damsels, with two maids, and one eu­nuch, an alabaster vase, an ingot of pure gold, oil, honey, and the finest white linen locations,year of the*56. 303.) from Al Jannabi.