OCR Output QF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 223 favourable of the two: and the suspicion is countenanced by the unnatural modera­tion of the Greek clergy, who appear in this quarrel to be conscious of their weak­ness. While the synod debated, a fanatic proposed a more summary decision, byraising a dead man to life: the prelates assisted at the trial, but the acknowledgedfailure may serve to indicate, that the passions and prejudices of the multitudewere not enlisted on the side of the Monothelites. In the next generation, whenthe son of Const an tine was deposed and slain by the disciple of Macarius, theytasted the feast of revenge and dominion: the image or monument of the sixthcouncil was defaced, and the original acts were committed to the flames. But inthe second year, their patron was cast headlong from the throne, the bishops ofthe east were released from their occasional conformity, the Roman faith was morefirmly replanted by the orthodox successors of Bardanes, and the fine problemsof the incarnation were forgotten in the more popular and visible quarrel of theworship of images. (1) Before the end of the seventh century, the creed of the incarnation, which hadbeen defined at Rome and Constantinople, was uniformly preached in the remoteislands of Britain and Ireland,(2) the same ideas were entertained, or rather thesame words were repeated, by all the Christians whose liturgy was performed inthe Greek or the Latin tongue. Their numbers, and visible splendour, bestowedan imperfect claim to the appellation of catholics: but in the east, they weremarked with the less honourable name of Melchites or royalists;(3) of men whosefaith, instead of resting on the basis of Scripture, reason, or tradition, had beenestablished, and was still maintained, by the arbitrary power of a temperal mo­narch. Their adversaries might allege the words of the fathers of Constanti­nople, who profess themselves the slaves of the king; and they might relate,with malicious joy, how the decrees of Chalcedon had been inspired and re­formed by the emperor Marcian and his virgin bride. The prevailing faction willnaturally inculcate the duty of submission, nor is it less natural that dissentersshould feel and assert the principles of freedom. Under the rod of persecution, theNestorians and Monophysites degenerated into rebels and fugitives; and the mostancient and useful allies of Rome were taught to consider the emperor not as thechief, but as the enemy of the Christians. Language, the leading principle whichunites or separates the tribes of mankind, soon discriminated the sectaries of theeast, by a peculiar and perpetual badge, which abolished the means of intercourseand the hope of reconciliation. The long dominion of the Greeks, their colonies,and, above all, their eloquence, had propagated a language, doubtless the most Eerfect that has been contrived by the art of man. Yet the body of the people,oth in Syria and Egpyt, still persevered in the use of their national idioms; withthis difference, however, that the Coptic was confined to the rude and illiterate Seasants of the Nile, while the Syriac,{4) from the mountains of Assyria to theed Sea, was adapted to the higher topics of poetry and argument. Armenia andAbyssinia were infected by the speech or learning of the Greeks; and their bar- trnn. vii. sp. 1032.) Bat this was a natural and transient emotion; and I much tear that the latter is an anticipArtion of orthodoxy in the good people of Constantinople. (1) The history of Monothelitisni may be found in the Acts of the Synods of Rome(tora. s-ii. p. 77—395.601—608.) and Constantinople (p. 609—1429.) Baronius extracted some original documents from the Vaticaulibrary: and his chronology is rectified by the diligence of Pagi. Even Dupin (Bibliothcque Eccles. torn. vi.j>. 57—71.) and Basnage (Hist. <le l'Eglise, torn. i. p. 541—555.) affords a tolerable abridgment. (2) In the Lateran synod of 679, Wilfred, an Anglo-Saxon bishop, subscribed pro omni aquilonali parte Bri­tannia* et Hthernia*. quae ab Anglorum et Britonum, necnon Seotorum et Pictorura gentibus colebantur (Ed-dius, in Vis. St. Wilfrid, c. xxxi. apnd Pagi, Critiea, torn. iii. p. 88.) Theodore (magna; insula Britannia ar-chiepiscopus et philnsophus) was long expected at Rome (Concil. torn. vii. p. 714.;) But he contented himselfwith holding (A. D. 680) his provincial synod of Hatfield, in which he received the decrees of pope Martin, andthe first Lateran council against the Monothelites (Concil. torn. vii. p. 597, &c.) Theodore, a monk of Tarsusin Cilicia, had been named to the primacy of Britain by pope Vitalian (A. D. 608. 'see Baronius and Pagi.)whose esteem for his learning and piety was tainted by some distrust of his national character—ne quid con-trariura veritati fidei, Grsecorum more, in ecclesiam cui prseesset imroduceret. The Cilioian was sent fromRome to Canterbury under the tuition of an African guide (Bedse Hist. Eccles. Anglorum, lib. iv. c. i.) Headhered to the Roman doctrine; aad the same creed of the incarnation has been uniformly transmitted fromTheodore to the modern primates, whose sound understandings are perhaps seldom engaged with that abstrusemystery. (3) This name, unknown till the tenth century, appears to be of Syriac origin. It was invested by the Ja­cobites, and eagerly adopted by the Nes*orians and Mahometans; but it was accepted^ without shame by thecatholics, and is frequently used in the Annals of Eutychius (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. ii. p. 597, &c,torn. iii. p. 355. Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alexandria p. 119.) -H/uif JouW* tow Bart*..*,-, was the acclama­tion of the fathers of Constantinople (Concil. torn. vii. p. 765.) (4) The Syriac, which the natives revere as the primitive language, was divided into ihree dialect!.—1. TheAramaean, a, it was refined at Edessa and the cities of Mesopotamia. 2. The Palestine, which was used inJerusalem, Damascus, and the rest of Syria. 3. The Nabatbsean, the rustic idiom of the mountains of Assy­ria and the villages of Irak (Grcgor. Abulpharag. Hist. Dynnst. p. 11.) On the Syriac,see Ebrd. Jestt, (Asse>•tan. fom. iii. p. 326, ostO whoseprejudicesrlnneconld prefer it to the Arabic.