OCR Output 60 [A. U. £. 768. THE ANNALS which had been stationed in the wings, through, fear,or a spirit of mutiny, abandoned their post, and seizeda piece of solid ground beyond the morass. Arminius,though the opportunity was fair, did not embrace it:but soon after, seeing the baggage fast in the mud, orm the ditches, the soldiers gathering round in tumultand disorder; the eagles in confusion; and as in suchcases always happens, each man acting for himself,and deaf to the command of his officers; he orderedhis men to make a vigorous onset, exclaiming, as headvanced, " Behold Varus and his legions! their fate" once more has given them to our swords." He charged at the head of a chosen band; and, bygashing and mangling the horses, made a dreadfulhavoc. Goaded by wounds, and not able to keep theirlegs on a slimy soil, which was made still more slip­pery by the effusion of their own blood, those animalsin their fury threw their riders, overturned all in theirway, and trampled under their feet the wretches thatlay on the ground. The chief distress was round theeagles; to support them under a heavy volley of dartswas difficult, and to fix them in the swampy groundimpossible. Cecina, exerting himself with undauntedvigour to sustain the ranks, had his horse killed underhim. The barbarians were ready to surround him,if the first legion had not come up to his assistance.At length the rage for plunder, natural to savages,turned the fortune of the day. Intent on booty, theGermans desisted from the fight. The Romans seizedtheir advantage, and towards the close of day gaineda station on the solid ground. Their distress, how­ever, was not al an end: intrenchments were to beraised; earth to be brought; their tools for diggingand cutting the soil were lost; no tents for the sol­diers ; no medicine for the wounded: their provisionsin a vile condition, deformed with filth and blood; anight big with horror hung over their heads; and theensuing day, to a number of brave and gallant men,might prove the last. Thejspirit of the legions sunk,and all lamented their condition.™ LXVI. It happened, in the course of the night, thata horse broke loose; and, scared by the noise of the