OCR Output 160 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. pence, two Roman generals, who had entered the pro­vince of Dalmatia, were defeated and slain by the Gothictroops. From blind and abject despair, Theodatus ca^priciously rose to groundless and fatal presumption/and dared to receive, with menace and contempt, theambassador of Justinian; who claimed his promise, so­licited the allegiance of his subjects, and boldly assertedthe inviolable privilege of his own character. Themarch of Belisarius dispelled this visionary prideandas the first campaign11 was employed in the reduction ofSicily, the invasion of Italy is applied by Procopius tothe second year of the Gothic war.'Belisarius After Belisarius had left sufficient garrisons in Paler- lnvades O . Italy, and mo and Syracuse, he embarked his troops at Messina,Naples, and landed them, without resistance, on the oppositea. d. 8o7. shores Gf Rhegium. A Gothic prince, who had marriedthe daughter of Theodatus, was stationed with an armyto guard the entrance of Italy; but he imitated, withoutscruple, the example of a sovereign, faithless to his publicand private duties. The perfidious Ebermor desertedwith his followers to the Roman camp, and was dismiss­ed to enjoy the servile honours of the Byzantine court.5From Rhegium to Naples; the fleet and army of Belisa­rius, almost always in view of each other, advancednear three hundred miles along the sea-coast. The peo­ple of Brattium, Lucania, and Campania, who abhorredthe name and- religion of the Goths, embraced the spe- 'P A Sibylline oracle was ready to pronounce—Africa capta mundus cam nato pe-rihit; a sentence of portentous amhiguity, (Gothio. lib. 1. c. 7.) which has beenpublished in unknown characters by Opsopaeus, an editor of the oracles. The PereJMaltret has promised a commentary; but all his promises have been vain and fruit­less.' , .' i In his chronology, imitated in some degree from Thucydides, Procopius beginseach spring the years of Justinian and of the Gothic war; and his first era coincideswith the first of April 535, and not 536, according to the Annals of Baronios (PagiCrit. tom. 2. p. 555, who is followed by Muratori and the editors of Sigonius). Yetin some passages we are at a loss to reconcile the dates of Procopius with himself,and with the Chronicle of Marcellinus. 'The series of the first Gothic war is represented by Procopius (lib. 1. c. 5—29.lib. 2. c. 1—30. lib. 3. c. 1.) till the captivity of Vitiges. With the aid of Sigonius(0|>p. tom. 1. de Imp. Occident. lib. 17,18.) and Muratori (Annali d'ltalia, tom. 5.)I have gleaned some few additional facts. • Jornandes, de Rebus Geticis, C. 60. p, 702, edit Grot, and tom.l. p. 221. Mu-raUiii, dc Success. Kegn. p. 241.