OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 305 lity than of the number of their slain ; for among thekilled were several of equestrian rank, five militarytribunes, and three prefects of the allies. Immedi­ately after this battle Hannibal removed into Liguria ;Sempronius to Luca. On Hannibal's arrival amongthe Ligurians, that people, in order to convince him oftheir sincerity in the treaty of peace and alliance whichthey had concluded, delivered into his bands two Ro­man questors, Caius Fulvius and Lucius Lucretius,with two military tribunes, and five persons of eques­trian rank, mostly the sons of senators; all of whomthey had seized in a treacherous manner. 60. While these transactions passed in Italy, CneiusCornelius Scipio, who was sent with the fleet and armyinto Spain, after his departure from the mouth of theRhone, sailing round the Pyrenean mountains, put intoEmporiae, where he disembarked his army; and begin­ning with the Lacetans, partly by renewing old treaties,partly by forming new ones, he brought under the do­minion of the Romans the whole coast, as far as theriver Iberus. The reputation of clemency which heacquired by these means had the most powerful effect,not only on the maritime states, but on the more bar­barous nations in the interior and mountainous parts;insomuch that, besides agreeing to terms of peace, theyconcluded also an alliance with him, and several strongcohorts of auxiliaries were raised among them. Thecountry on this side the Iberus was the province ofHanno, whom Hannibal had left behind for the defenceof that tract. Seeing, therefore, a necessity, before thewhole country should join the enemy, of exerting him­self to obviate that evil, he encamped his forces withinsightxif them, and offered them battle: this offer theRoman did not hesitate to accept; for, knowing thathe must fight Hanno and Hasdrubal, he was betterpleased to engage each of them separately than tohave to deal with both together. Nor was the disputevery strongly contested. Six thousand of the enemywere slain and two thousand taken, besides the guardliv. vol. in. u