OCR Output 1050 ffVSA. souM § 5.) Diodorus (xix, 16, xvii. 65) and Ca-ssiodoras(vii. 15) speak of the strength ami splendour of itscitadel; and the latter writer aifums that tliere wasa splendid palat e there, built fur Cyrus hy Memnon.Besides this structure, Pliny speaks of a celebratedtemple of Diana (/. c.; see also Mart. Capelia, vi.dt Indtit, p. 225, ed. Grotius). in all probabilitythat of the Syrian goddess Anaitis; while St. Jeromeadds, that Daniel erected a town there (Hieronym. is)Am.), a story which Joseph us narrates, with lessprobability, of Kcbatana. {Ant. x. 11.) Sum wisone of the capitals at which the kings of Fersia werewont to spend a portion of the year. Thus Cyrus,according to Xenophon. lived there daring the threemonths of the spring. (Cyrop, viii. 6. § 22.)Strata offers the most probable reason for thiscustom, where he states that Stlaiana was peculiarlywell suited for the royal residence from its centralposition with respect to the rest of the empire, andfrom the quiet and orderly character of its govern­ment (/. c.) From these and other reasons, Sus:iappears to have been the chief treasury of thePersian empire (Herod, v. 49); and how vast werethe treasures laid up tliere by successive kings, mayhe gathered from the narrative in Arrian, of thesums paid by Alexander to his soldiers, and of thepresents made by him to his leading generals,on theoccasion of his marriage at Susa with Barsine andParjaatia (Curt. vii. 4, 5): even long after Ales*Slider's death, Antigonus found a great amount ofplunder still at Susa. (Diod. xix 48.) With regard to the modern site to be identifiedas that of the ruins of Susa, there has been consider­able difference of opinion in modern times. Thishas, however, chiefly arisen from the scarcity oftravellers who have examined the localities with anysufficient accuracy. The first who did so, Air.Kinneir, at once decided that the modern ,Sus,siiuated at the junction of Kerkhah and river ofJ>h, must represent the Shushan of Daniel, the Susaof profane authors. (Travels, p. 99; com p. Mal­colm, Hist. Persia^ i. p. 256.) Rennell had indeedsusj»ected as much lung before (G'eogr. J/eroilof. i.p. '102); but Vincent and others had advanced therival claim of Sinister. (Anc. Commerce, \. p. 439.)The question has been now completely set at rest,by the careful excavations which have been madeduring the last few years, first by Colonel (now SirW. F.) Williams, and secondly by Mr. Loftus. Theresults of their researches arc given by Mr. Loftus ina paper read to the Royal Society of Literature inNovember, 1855. (Transactwiu, vol. v. new series.)Mr. Loftus found three great mounds, measuringtogether more than 3£ miles in circumference, andabove 100 feet in height; and, on excavating, laidhare the remains of a gigantic colonnade, having afrontage of 343 feet, and a depth of 244, consistingof a central square of 36 columns, flanked to the N.,E,t and W. by a similar number—the whole arrange­ment being nearly the same as that of the GreatHall of Xerxes at PersepolU. A great number ofother curious discoveries were made, the most im­portant being numerous inscriptions in the cuneiformcharacter. Enough of these has been alreadydeciphered to show, that some of the works on Imound belong to tin x'other important butthe only nv- dedicated to the godJaaa TsslaA Greek inscription saaWaajjthe base of a column. u<j sUtiaf twas the governor of So-iini Tblmonument in the uei^hboossi,!and believe to be the twb of IsaVquestion, however, tiiat it is ithe Mohammedan time*. SUSIA'NA (h 2owr<a*ifMUv. 46; Strab. xv. 729, At: flu731; i} Zovfiids, Strab. il p.vine* in the southern part of Asgreat measure of plain wanny, isome ranges of ni"unUiu> to^*ously given by different writers MOimagine.! to include more*trict of IVrnis. Generall;, its Wto have been, to the N, Media ■»Chnrbanns and ('iimbalidos, fart*I'ar.ichoathraj; to the K. the o<*l]>arach"arlirns and the rieer Op*Persian gulf from the moutheft'of the Tigris: and to the W. thetalma and 15abr Ionia. (Cf. Ital/. c, who, however, trails Susiaaa iAs a province it appears to hawI'fpeciaUy in grain, but exposed ftintense liOHt. (Strab. iv. p. 7SMacedonians are said to hire il/.c.) Its printipal moamaial ftwilled by I'iiny Charbanus aod (s. 31). while a portion of ihe )Ubelonged to this proriflce,called riuAai 2wriJ<i. (Ftt, Susiana was intersected hyflowed either to the Tigris or Pfthigh mountain water-bed whewt.lf those Ihe principal «ere thethe Choaspes (Kerkkai). ttaDii), the UedvjJion or IMvpnUroatis (Tali). The inhabit!apjiear to have borne induflJSusii or Sudani, and, as innacountry, to have l«n devotedployment.-.: in the mountains,*robbers, who, from time to tins;to levy black mail even on thaiing their fusses. (Strab. Ifname, uheieby the people Iffeai ly times, was Cissii (AMI!laud" itself Cissia (Strab. IT. fThis name is clearlythe chief tribes of th«repeatedlv mentionedxi. p. 522; Arr. lad. 40;were many different trib»of Susiana; but it ifto what differentAmong these,robber tribe onMcs&abatae, whonow 1: -ti olyafl>ynoi