OCR Output 162 LEPTIS MAGNA. LEPTIS MAGNA. [See below, under Leptis Magna.] Its ruins,though interesting, are of no great extent. (Shaw,Travels^ p. 109; Barth, Wamlerungen, o*c. p. 161.) [p. a] LKPTIS MAGNA (v Atwrts n<yd\y, A«im-fidyva, Procop B. V. ii. 21 ; also A'srif, pimply;aft. Neda-uAn; Leptimagnensis Civitas, Cod. Just.i. 27. 2: Eth. and Adj. Acvrrrturor, Leptitanus:/>Wa, large Rn.), the chief of tlie three citieswhich formed the African Tripolis, in the districtbetween the Syrtes (Regio Syrtica, aft. Tripoli-tana), on the N. coast of Africa; the other twobeing Oea and Sabrata. I.*pti*was one of the mostancient Phoenician colonies on this coast, havingbeen founded by the Sidoniana (Sail. Jug. 19.78);and its site was one of the most favourable that canbe imagined for a city of the first class. It stood atono of those jiarta of the coast where the table-landof the Great Desert falls off to the sea by asuece>sionof mountain ridges, enclosing valleys which are thussheltered from those encroachments of sand thatcover the shore where no such protection exists,while they lie open to the breezes of the Mediter­ranean. The country, in fact, resembles, on a smallscale, the terraces of the Cyrenaic coast ; and itspreat beauty and fertility have excited the admira­tion alike of ancient and modern writers. (Ainmian.Mare, xxviii. 6 ; Delia Cella ; Rccchy; Barth, Ac.)Each of these valleys is watered by its streamlet,generally very insignificant and even intermittent,but sometimes worthy of lteing styled a river, as inthe case of the Ciirrrs, and of the smaller stream,further to the we>t, upon which Leptis stood. Theexcellence of the site was much enhanced by theshelter afforded by the promontory Hkkmakim(AV«-a/-.l*A/m), W. of the city, to the roadstead inits front. The ruins of Leptis are of vast extent,of which a great portion is buried under the sandwhich has drifted over them from the sea. Fromwhat cm be traced, however, it is clear that the^cremains contain the ruins of three different cities. (1.) The original city, or Old Leptis, still exhibitsin its ruins the characteristics of an ancient Phoeniciansettlement ; and, in its site, its sea-walls and quays,its harbour, and its defences on the land side, it bearsa striking general resemblance to Carthage* It wasbuilt on an elevated tongue of land, jutting out fromthe W. bank ot the little river, the mouth of whichformed its port, having been artificially enlarged forthat purpose. The banks of the river, as well as theseaward face of the promontory, are lined with wallsof massive masonry, serving as sea-walls as well asquays, and containing some curious vaulted cham­bers, which are supposed to have been docks forships which were kept (as at Carthage) for a lastresource, in case the citadel should be taken by anenemy. These structures are of a harder stone thanthe other buildings of the city; the latter being ofa light sandstone, which gave the place a glitteringwhiteness to the voyager approaching it from thesea. (Stadieum. Afar. Afag. p. 453, G., p. 297,H.) On the land side the iathmus was defendedby three lines of massive stone walls, the positionof each being admirably adapted to the nature ofthe ground; and, in a depression of the groundbetween the outmost and middle line, there seemsto have been a canal, connecting the harbour in themouth of the river with the roadstead W. of thecity. Opposite to this tongue of land, on the E.aide of the river, la a much lower, less projecting,and more rounded promontory, which could not have been left out of the system of external works, al­though no part of the city was built upon it. Accordingly we find here, besides the quays along ti#river side, and vaults in them, which served forwarehouses, a remarkable building, which seems tohave been a fort Its superstructure is of brick,and certainly not of Phoenician work; but it pro­bably stood on foundations coeval with the city.This is the only example of the use of brick in theruins of Leptis, with the exception of the waJbwhich surmount the sea-defences already described.From this eastern, as well as from the western pointof land, an artificial mole was built out, to give addi­tional shelter to the port on either Bide; but, throughnot permitting a free egress to the sand which iswashed up on that coast in vast quantities whsevery tide, these moles have been the chief cause ofthe destruction, first of the port, and afterwards efthe city. The former event bad already happenedat the date of the Stndiarmus, which describe* Lep­tis as having no harbour (aKiptvoi). The harbourstill existed, however, at the time of the restorationof the city by Septimius Severus, and tmall reaatlicould even ascend to some distance above the city,as is proved by a quay of Roman work on the\V. bank, at a spot where the river is still deep,though its mouth is now lost in the sand-hills. 2. The Old City (inSAjf) thus described beraanegradually, like the Byrsa of Carthage, the citadelof a much more extensive New City (NeovoAji),which grew up beyond its limits, on the W. bank ofthe river, where its magnificent buildings now liehidden beneath the sand. This Nkw Crrr, a» inthe case of Carthage and several other Phoeniciancities of like growth, gave its name to the place,which was hence called Neapoi.is, not, Iwnrever. asat Carthage [comp. Carthago, Vol. I. p, 529. § i ],to the disuse of the old name. Leptis, which wasnever entirely lost, and which became the prevailingname in the later times of the ancient world, and i«the name which the ruins still retain {Ltbdo\Under the early emperors both names are foundalmost indifferently; but with a slight indication «fthe preference given to Nf.apous, and it seenwprobable that the name Leptis, with the epithetAfatjna to distinguish it wi>m Lbptis Parva, pre­vailed at last for the sake of avoiding any cotrfu>*wwith Nbapous in Zenpitana. (Strab. xtTl p. 8S5,NfdVoA.u, V koX A*ttiv koAovviv. Mela, however,i. 7. § 5, has Leptis only, with the epithet atrra:Pliny, r. 4. e. 4, misled, as usual, by the abundanceof his authorities, makes Leptis and Neapolis difiemrtcities, and he dir>tingui>hes this from the otherLeptis as Ijtptis altera, qua* cognomitmhtr m**<r»*:Ptolemy, iv. 3. § 13, has NedwoXir i, mal Ars-ntj*#7aAn: I tin. Ant p. 63, and Tab. TVs*. LeraiMagna Colonia;Scyl. pp. 111,118,113, Gronov. Nf«nrfAtj; Stadiasm. p. 435, Aerm, vulg. ArVret,the coins all have the name I.f.itis simply, with tWaddition, on some of them, of the epithet CoU«i*Victrix Julia; but it is Tery uncertain to *h*-hof the two cities of the name the?* coins belong;Eckhel, vol. iv. pp. 130,131; Rasche, s.r.) We Wnifrom .Sallust that the commercial intercourse of Lentawith the native tribes had led to a sharing of the etm-mdmtm,An<\ hence to an admixture of the language efthe city with the Libyan dialects {Jug. 78). In ftvt,Leptis, like the neighbouring Tripoli/, which, witha vastly inferior site, has succeeded to its poaitm,was the great emporium for the trade with theGaramantes and Phsiania and the eastern part el