OCR Output 416 NEMADSUS. NEMEA. duct the waters of the springs of the Eure and A kannear Uzee, were brought toNemausus. The river Gar­den, the ancient Vardo, is deep just above the aque­duct. The channel is sunk between rugged rocks,on which scattered shrubs grow. The river rises inthe Cfaensjev, and is subject to Hoods, which wouldhave destroyed a less solid structure than thisRoman bridge. The bridge is built where the valleyis contracted by the rocks, and in its ordinary stateall the water passes under one arch. The best viewof the bridge is from tho side above it. The otherside is disfigured by a modern structure of the samedimensions as the lower range of arches; it is abridge attached to the lower arches of the Romanbridge, and is used for the passage of carts andhorses over the Garden. There are three tiers of arches. The lowest tierconsists of six arches; that under which the waterflows is the largest. The width of this arch is saidto be about 50 Knglish feet, and the height fromthe surface of the water is about 65 feet. Thesecond tier contains eleven arches, Bix of which cor­respond to those below, but they appear to be wider,and the piers are not so thick as those of the lowesttier. The height of the second tier is said to beabout 64 feet; but some of these dimensions maynot be very accurate. The third tier has thirty-five arches, or thereabouts, making a length, at it issaid, of about 870 English feet. It is about S«feet high to the top of the great slabs of stonewhich cover it. These slabs lie across the ch*ni<lin which the water was conveyed over the river,and they project a little so as to form a conuoe.The whole height of the three tiers, if the severaldimensions arc correctly given, is about 155 feet.It is generally said that the bridge is entirvitbuilt of stones, without mortar or cement. Thestones of the two lower tiers are without cement;but the arches of the highest tier, which are builtof much smaller stones, are cemented. At thenorth end of the aqueduct the highest tier of archesand the water channel are higher than tile groumdon which the aqueduct abuts, and there moat havebeen a continuation of small arches along the top ofthis hill; but there arc no traces of them, at leastnear the bridge. On the opposite or sooth side theaqueduct abuts against the hill, which it higherthan tho level of the channel. There is no trace ofthe hill having been pierced; and an intelligentman, who lives near the bridge, says that theaqueduct was carried round the hill, and that itpierced another hill further on, where the tasssalstill exists. riOMAS AQI.'EDUCT SEAR XF.MAISLS, now Called TTIK POST DU OARD. The stone of this bridge is a yellowish colour.Seen under the sun from the west side, the bridgehas a brightish yellow tint, with patches of darkcolour, owing to tho weather. The stone in thehighest tier is a concretion of shells and sand, andthat in the lower tiers appears to be the same. Inthe stones in the highest tier there arc halves of abivalve shell completely preserved. The stone alsooontains bits of rough quartzose rock, and manysmall rounded pebbles. In the floods the Gardenrises 30 feet above its ordinary level, and thewater will tlien pass nnder all the arches of thelowest tier. The piers of this tier show some marksof being worn by the water. But the bridge is stillsolid and strong, a magnificent monument of thegrandeur of Roman conceptions, and of the boldnessof their execution. There are many works which treat of the an­tiquities of .V/.m .-. Some arc quoted and extractsfrom them are printed in the Guide du Voyageur,par Richard and E. Hocquart. [G. L.] M. Ml. \ (^ Nip/a, Ion. NVm'rj: Adj. N-...i.*i.Ntpcfiuos, Ncmeaeus), the name of a valley in thoterritory of Cleonae, where Hercules slew the Ne-mean lion, and where the Ncmean games werecelebrated every other year. It is described byStrabo as situated between Cleonae and Phlius(viii. p. 377). The valley lies in a directionnearly north and south, and is about two or threemiles long, and from half to three quarters of a milein breadth. It is shut in on every side by moun­ tains, and is hence called by Pindar a deep rale(fiadinrt&os. Son. iii. 18.) There is a rrmarkaSiemountain on the NE., called in ancient timesArKSAs ('Airjimj), now Fuka, nearly 3000 farthigh, with a flat summit, which is visible from Arc*and Corinth. On this mountain Perseus is said Uhave first sacrificed to Zeus Apesantius. (Pans. u.15. § 3; Steph. B. f. r. 'AsrsVal; Stat. 7"**',. iii.460, seq.) Theocritus gives Nemea the epithet of"well-watered" (<60Spov Nf jioji x*V<". Thaw,xxv. 182). Several rivulets descend from the sar-rounding mountains, which collect in the plain, andform a river, which flows northward throach theridges of Apesas, and falls into the Corinthian gulf,forming in the lower part of its source the boundarybetween the territories of Sicyon and Corinth. Tailriver also bore the name of Nemea (Strab. via.p. 382; Diod. xiv. 83; Liv. xxxiii. 15); but as itwas dependent for its supply of water upna theseason of the year, it was sometimes called the Xe-mean Cbaradra. (Aesch. de FaU. Leg. J 16*. ed.Bokker; i XapdJpo, Xen. Hell. iv. 8. $ 15.) Themountains, which enclose the valley, have arreralnatural caverns, one of which, at the distance af ISstadia from the sacred grove of Nemea, and na> theroad named Tretus, from the latter place to Myreasat,was pointed out as the cave of the Ncmean baa.(Paus. ii. 15. § 2.) The name ol Nemea was strictly applied la th*sacred grove in which the games were celrbratni.Like Olympia and the sanctuary at the Corintluaa