OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Prætorian guards, who trembled for their wives and children in thecamp of Alba, near Rome, executed the sentence of the senate.Maximin, abandoned by his guards, was flain in his tent, with hisson, whom he had associated to the honours of. the purple, Anu-linus the præfect, and the principal ministers of hi3 tyranny }fc.Their heads, borne on the point of spears, convinced the citizens ofAquileia, that the siege was at an end; the gates of the city werethrown open, a liberal market was provided for the hungrytroops of Maximin, and the whole army joined in solemn protesta­tions of fidelity to the senate and people of Rome, and to theirportrait. iawfui emperors Maximus and Balbinus. Such was the deserved-fate of a brutal savage, destitute, as he has generally been re-*presented, of every sentiment that distinguishes a civilized oreven a human being. The body was suited to the foul. The sta­ture of Maximin exceeded the measure of eight feet, and circum­stances almost incredible are related of his matchless strength andappetite ,6. Had he lived in a less enlightened age, tradition andpoetry might well have described him as one of those monstrousgiants, whose supernatural power was constantly exerted for thedestruction of mankind,the It is easier to conceive than to describe the universal joy of theRoman world on the fall of the tyrant, the news of which is saidto have been carried in four days from Aquileia to Rome. The re­turn of Maximus was a triumphal procession, his colleague and youngGordian went out to meet him, and the three princes entered the capi­tal attended by the ambassadors of almost all the cities of Italy, salutedwith the splendid offerings of gratitude and superstition, and re­ceived with the unfeigned acclamations of the senate and people, whopersuaded themselves that a golden age would succeed to an age ofiron57. The conduct of the two emperors corresponded with theseexpectations. They administered justice in person; and the rigourof the one was tempered by the other's clemency. The oppressive 2 taxes