OCR Output 90 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL Cyrus read this, and admired the divine power, an earnest de­sire and ambition seized upon him, to fulfil what was so written;so he called for the most eminent Jews that were in Babylon,and said to them, that "he gave them leave to go back to their"own country, and to rebuild * their city Jerusalem, and the"temple of God, for that he would be their assistant, and that"he would write to the rulers and governors that were in the"neighbourhood of their country of Judea, that they should"contribute to them gold and silver for the building of the"temple, and besides that, beasts for their sacrifices." 3. When Cyrus had said this to the Israelites, the rulers ofthe two tribes of Judah and Benjamin, with the Levites, andpriests, went in haste to Jerusalem, yet did many of them stayat Babylon, as not willing to leave.their possessions; and whenthey were come thither, all the king's friends assisted them, andbrought in, for the building of the temple, some gold and somesilver, and some a great many cattle and horses. So they per­formed their vows to God, and offered the sacrifices that hadbeen accustomed of old time; I mean this upon the rebuilding oftheir city, and the revival of the ancient practices relating totheir worship. Cyrus also sent back to them the vessels of Godwhich king Nebuchadnezzar had pillaged out of the temple, andhad carried to Babylon. So he committed these things to Mith-ridates, the treasurer, to be sent away, with an order to givethem to Sanabassar, that he might keep them till the templewas built; and when it was finished, he might deliver them tothe priests and rulers of the multitude, in order to their beingrestored to the temple. Cyrus also sent an epistle to the gov­ernors that were in Syria, the contents whereof here follow: "King CYRUS to SISINNES and SATHRABUZANES, sendetk"greeting. "I have given leave, to as many of the Jews that dwell in my"country as please to return to their own country, and to re-"build their city, and to build the temple of God at Jerusalem,"on the same place where it was before. I have also sent my i * This leave to build Jerusalem, sect. 2, 5. and the epistle of Cyrus to Sisinnes andSitlmilmzimes, to the came purpose, are most unfortunately omitted in all our co­pies, but this best and completes! copy of Josephus, and by such omission the fa­mous prophecy of Isaiah, Isa. xliv. 23. where we are informed, that God said of, orto Cyrus, " He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure; even saying toJerusalem, Ihou shall be built, and to the temple, thy foundation shall be laid,"could not hitherto be demonstrated from the sacred history to have been completelyfulfilled; I mean as to that part of it which concerned his giving leave or commis­sion for rebuilding the city Jerusalem as distinct from the temple, whose rebuildingk alone permitted or directed in the decree of Cyrus in all our copies.