OCR Output 100 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. rus as a suppliant, and refuge in a cell built double by a par­tition. In the inner part of this cell he hid some of the Epho­ri : And, Pausanias coming to him and demanding the reasonof his supplication, they heard distinctly all that passed. Theman complained bitterly to him about the clause in the let­ters relating to himself, and expostulated with him about eve­ry particular—" why he, who had been so trusty to him dur-" ing the whole course of his negotiations with the king," should now be so highly honoured, as to be murdered up-" on an equal rank with the meanest of his tools ?" Pausaniasconfessed the truth of all that he alleged ; begged him " not" to be exasperated with what at present appeared;" assuredhim " he should not be hurt if he would leave his sanctuary;"and earnestly intreated him, " with all possible speed to go" the journey, and not to obstruct the schemes that were then" in agitation." The Ephori, having exactly heard him,withdrew: And now beyond a scruple convinced, they de­termined to apprehend him in the city. But it is reported,that at the instant fixed for his arrest, as he was walkingalong, and beheld the countenance of one of the Ephori ap­proaching towards him, he immediately discovered his bu­siness ; and another of them out of kindness intimating thematter by a nod, he took to his heels, and fled away fasterthan they could pursue him. The Chalcitrcan happened tobe near, and into a little house within the verge of thattemple he betook himself, and sat quietly down to avoid theinclemency of the outward air. They, who had lost thestart, came too late in the pursuit. But afterwards, theystripped the house of its roof and doors ; and, watching theiropportunity when he was within, they encompassed himround about*, immured him within, and placing a constantguard around, kept him beset, that he might perish with hun­ger. When he was ready to expire, and they found in howbad a state he lay within the house, they led him out of the • Alcithea, the mother of Pausanias, is said to have brought the firstatone on th'i9 occasion : Such was the spirit of the ladies at Lacedxmnn.