OCR Output PEGASEUM. PELASGI. 561 trances from Illyricum into Macedonia by the courseof the river Union. Between the NE. extremity,Mt. Ljubatrin, and the Klisura of Verdi, there arein the mighty and continuous chain of Scardu.s(above 7000 feet high) only two passes fit for anarmy to cross, one near the N. extremity of thochain from Kalkandelc to Pritrendi or Perurrin,a very high " col," not less than 5000 feet above thesea-level; the other considerably to the S , and loweras well as easier, nearly in the latitude of A 'kridha.Leake {Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 318—322) is ofopinion that the passes of Pelagonia. in which Per­seus was stationed by his father Philip, were thislatter depression in the chain over which the modernroad from Scvdra or Scutari runs, and the ViaEgnatia travelled formerly. The lllyrian Anatae and Dardani, to the N. of Pelagonia, no doubtthreatened Macedonia from the former ]jass, to theNE. of the mountain-chain of Scardus. (Comp.Grote, Greece, c. xxv. and the references there toPouqueville, Boue', Grisebach, and Miiller.) Stym-bara or Stubara, was situated apparently on thoErigon, as also were most of the Pelagonian towns.Polybius (r. 108) speaks of a Pelagonian townnamed Pissakiim (nnrffaibi'). Ptolemy (/. c.) as­signs to the Pelagones the two towns of Andra-ristus or Euristus (Peut. Tab., the orthographyis not quite certain), and Stobi. [E. B. J ] PELASGI (nfAewrvo!), an ancient race, widelyspread over Greece and the coasts and islands of theAegean sea in prehistoric times. We also find tracesof them in Asia Minor and Italy. I. The Pclasgiatu in Greece.—The earliest men­tion of the Pelasgi is in Homer (//. ii. 681), whoenumerates several Thessalian tribes as furnishinga contingent under the command of Achilles, andamong thein * those who dwelt in Pelasgian Argot."Homer also speaks of Epirus as a chief abode of thoPelasgi; for Achilles addresses Zeus as ActcWaie,TlthatryiKi. (//. xvi. 233.) And this agrees withHesiod's description of Dodona as the "seat of thePelasgi." (Fragm. xviii.) So in the Suppliers ofAeschylus, the king declares himself to be ruler c.fthe country through which the Algus and theStryinon flow, and also of the whole of the land ofthe Perrhaebi, near the Paeonians, and the Dodom-anmountains, as far as the sea. (Suppl. 250, sex].).Herodotus tells us he found traces of the Pelasgi atDodona, where he says they worshipped all the gi»i •,without giving a name to any (ii. 52). Comparehis mythic account of the two priestesses at Dodona(ii. 56) with Homer's description of the Selli. {II.xvi. 234, seq.) Strabo (v. p. 221, C.) says: M Nearly all are agreedabout the PeLisgi, that they were an ancient trilwi(QtwAoy) spread over the whole of Helta*, and espe­cially by the side of the Aeolians in Thcssaly. . . .And that part of Thessaly is called Pelasgian Argon,which extends from the coast between the outlet ofthe Peneius and Thermopylae as far as the mountainrange of Pindus, because the Pelasgians were master*of that region."* We also hear of the Pelasgi in Boeotia, wherethey dwelt for a time, after having, in conjunctionwith the Thracians, driven out the Aones, Tenmrices,Leleges and Hyalites. Afterwards they were, intheir turn, driven out by the former inhabitants, andtook refuge at Athens under Mt. Hymettus, part of fUirJooiaj, who in the night had discharged theirit the rock nnder the impulse of Artemis,-.i.z; it for the enemy. In commemoration ofia m.t, there was a brazen statue of Artemis(an it Parse. (Pans. L 44. § 4.) Pegae is"CMiti'jMd in the following passages:—Strab. ix.x400,409; Pans. i. 41. §8; Ptol. iii. 15. § 6;i|a.L(.r.; Mela. iii. 3. § 10; Plin. iv. 7. s. 11;•rod p. (45: Tab. Peat., where it is called Pache.is'.e u now occupied by the port of Psatho, notr tnm the shore of which are found the remains ofmat Irtrets. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol.i«7.) rWASFni STAGNUM, a small lake in theirttun plain near Ephesus, from which issues> kilt river Phyrites, a tributary of the Caystrus.to r. J|.) The district surrounding the lake isprremt an extensive morass. (Comp. Arundell, fWdka, p. 23, &c) [L. S.] rtiiUEEVS. [Athexae, p. 306 ]PElitAEUS and PEIRAEUM, iu Corinthia. [p. y nOAEOi [Ambus.] fEttrSE PONS. [CouSTBtrt, p. 680, b.] PUEESIAE. [AaTEtuuM.] rtttli [Aciiaia, p. 13, b.] tOsO. [Pino.] Ell'51 (DW), a fortress of the Tolistoboii, in■a. "bert Ueiotarus kept his treasures. (Strab. »M7.) tUGOTilA (ntAa-yori'o, Strab. vii. pp. 326,. H^tytmia. Steph. B.). a district of Macedonia,■" on Dlvricnm, occupied by the Pelagones*r*n, Strab. vu. pp. 327, 331, Fr. 38—40,I Hal ii 13. § 34; Plin. iv.17). Although Livytm tte name of Pelagonia, corresponding withIt- ' plains of Bitolia, in his narrative of theHr» O* Solptcius, aa that of a large districtUit htymbara, it is evident, from his account • •. ti of Macedonia after the Roman con-'•'»: Pelagonia became the appellation of therlo»a of the Pelagones, and the capital of thetalataiaaia, which included all the primitive Macedonia E. of the range of Pindus and(Ut. xlr 29.) It was perhaps not spe- •' r:. ployed as the name of a town until the'hnauei of Pelagonia were ruined; for that1*^ <* a portion of it, once contained three, °" udemd from the adjunct Tripolitis,iVI srStrabo(rii. p 327). The town, which,fi* nrrutnxtance of its having been the capital>I r.i. Macedonia, most have been of someexisted till a late period, as it is noticed'•Ifwimu of Hierocles, and by the Byzan-'--' a, Malcbna of Philadelphia, who speaks'«mj(rth of iu citadel (op. Const. Porph.T- * Ujat p. 81). From its advantageous * * was occupied by Manuel Cotnnenus, in * *cb (jtiaa II. and the Hungarians. (Nicet.|u Rfmo. Bat Empire, »ol. xvi. p 141.) The«' Pclaerana still exists as the designation of*' -*:rcsulitan bishopric of Bitolia or Ho-\ a* tbt chief place of the surrounding<1 ai tat ordinary residence of the governor At or near tlie town are many ves-■afcbaat buildings of Roman times. The dis-*» expued to invasions from the Dardani,*i"*l <■ the N., for which reasons the com-■» ("bum Pelagoniae," Liv. xxxi. 34)■aetSj guarded by the kings of Macedonia,p mat importance, as one of the direct en- * Argos probably means a plain, see Krusca//ctfus (vol. i. p. 404). o o