OCR Output 78 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X. and saluted Daniel in the manner that men worship God, andgave command that he should be sacrificed to as a god. And thiswas not all, for he also imposed the name of his own god upon him,[Baltasar], and made him and his kinsmen rulers of his wholekingdom; which kinsmen of his happened to fall into great dan­ger by the envy and malice of [their enemies]; for they offend­ed the king upon the occasion following: he made an image ofgold, whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadth six cubits,and set it in the great plain of Babylon; and when he was goingto dedicate the image, he invited the principal men out of all theearth that was under his dominions, and commanded them in thefirst place, that when they should hear the sound of the trumpet,they should then fall down and worship the image; and he threat­ened, that those who did not so, should be cast into a fiery fur­nace. When therefore all the rest, upon the hearing of the soundof the trumpet, worshipped the image, they related that Daniel'skinsmen did not do it, because they would not transgress the lawsof their country: So these men were convicted and cast immedi­ately into the fire, but were saved by divine providence, and af­ter a surprising manner escaped death, for the fire did not touch.them: and I suppose that it touched them not, as if it reasonedwith itself, that they were cast into it without any fault of theirs,fmd that therefore it was too weak to burn the young men whenthey were in it. This was done by the power of God, who madetheir bodies so far superior to the fire, that it could not consumethem. This it was which recommended them to the king asrighteous men, and men beloved of God, on which account theycontinued in great esteem with him. 6. A little after this the king saw in his sleep again another-vision; how he should fall from his dominion, and feed amongdie wild beasts, and that when he had lived in this manner in thedesert for * seven years, he should recover his dominion again. * Since Joscpbus here explains the seven prophetic times which were to pass overNebuchadnezzar, Dan. iv. 16. to be seven years, we thence learn how he most pro­bably must have understood those other parallel phrases, of a time, times and an half,Antiq. B. VII. chap. xxv. of so many prophetic years also, though he withal lets usknow, by this hint at the interpretation of the seventy ivtieks, as belonging to thefourth monarchy, and the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans in the days ofJosephus, chap. ii. sect. 7. that he did not think those years to be bare years, but ga­ther days Jar years; by which reckoning, and by which alone, could 70 weeks, or'4 9O days reach to the age of Josephus. But as to the truth of those seven years'banishment of Nebuchadnezzar from men, and his living so long among the beasts,the very small remains we have any where else of this Nebuchadnezzar, prevent ourexpectation of any other full account of it. So far we know by Ptolemy's canon, acontemporary record, as well as by Josephus presently, that he reigned in all 43years, that is, eight years after we meet with any account of his actions; one of thelast, of which was the 13 years siege of Tyre, Antiq. B. X. chap. xi. where yet theOld Latin has but three years and ten months, yet were his actions before so remark­