OCR Output 338 MESSAPIA. MESSENE. form ME22ANION or ME22ANI.1N. 4. Coinsstruck by the Mamertines, with the name of MA-MEPTlNflN. These are very numerous, but incopper only. (Millingen, Tram, of Roy. Soc. of Lit.Tol. i. pt ii. pp. 33—98; Eckhel, vol. i. pp. 219—224.) [E. H. B.] MESSA'PIA (Mtaaaria), was the name com­monly given by the Greeks to the peninsula formingthe SE. extremity of Italy, called by the RomansCalabria. But the usage of the term was veryfluctuating; Iapygia and Messapia being used some­times as synonymous, sometimes the latter con­sidered as a part only of the former more generaldesignation. (Pol. iii. 88; Strab. vL pp. 277,282.)[This question is more fully discussed under Cai.a-iihia. Vol. I. p. 472.] The same uncertainty pre­vails, though to a less degree, in the use of thename of the people, the Mkssaimi (M>o-<rctiuoi), whoare described by Herodotus (vii. 170) as a tribe ofthe Iapygians, and appear to be certainly identicalwith the Calabri of the Romans, though we have noexplanation of the origin of two such different ap­pellations. The ethnical affinities of the Mcssapuuishave already been discussed, as well as their historyrelated, under the article Calabria. Italian topographers in general admit the exist­ence of a (ova of the name of Messapia, the site ofwhich is supposed to be marked by the village nowcalled iletagne, between Oria and Rrindiii; butthe passage of Pliny, in which alone the name isfound, appears to be corrupt; and we should proba­bly read, with Cluverius and Mommsen, '* Varia(Uria) cui cognomen ad discrimen Apulae Mes­sapia." (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16. § 100; Cluver, Ital.p. 1248; Mommsen, Di» Cnter. Ital. hiaiektt, p.61.) [E. H. B.] MESSA'PIUM, mountain of Boeolia. [Vol. I.p. 414, a.1 MESSE'IS (M«r<ri)tr). ]. A fountain of Phenein Thessaly. [Pherak.] 2. A fountain of Therapnc in Laconia. (Pans. iii.20. § 1.) MESSE'KrJ (Meo-ffr/rn: Elk. and Adj. Meff-o-r/i'ior: Adj. Mttro^fuuc^r), the later capital ofMessenia, built under the direction of Epnininundasin B.C. 369. (Diod. xv. 66; I'aus. iv. 27.) Thename of Messene had been applied in ancient timesto the country inhabited by the Messenians; butthere was no city of this name till the one foundedby Epaminondas. The Thebans and their alliesassisted the Messenians in building it; and the bestarchitects and masons were invited from all Greeceto lay out the city with regularity, and to arrangeand construct properly the temples and other publicbuildings. Epaminondas also took esjiocial painswith the fortifications, which were regarded byPausanias as the most perfect in Greece. The walls,as well as the towers and bulwarks, were built en­tirely of stono; and the excellence and solidity ofthe masonry are still apparent in the existingremains. (Paus. iv. 31. § 5.) The foundation ofthe city wa» attended with great pomp and thecelebration of solemn sacrifices. First, sacrificeswere offered by Epaminondas, who was recognisedas Oekist or Founder, to Dionysus and ApolloIsmenius,—by the Argives to the Argive Hera andZeus Kemeius,— by the Messenians to Zeus ltho-matas and the Dioscuri. Next, prayer was offeredto the ancient Heroes and Heroines of the Measeniannation, especially to the warrior ArUtomenee, thatthey would com back and take up their abode in I the new city. After this, the ground was markedout and the building begun, under the sound of Argmand Boeotian flutes, playing the strains of Pronrsr.asand Sacadas. (Pans. iv. 28. § 6; Grote's Gram,vol. ix. p. 309.) The history of this town is relatedunder Messenia, so that it is only necessary is limplace to give an account of its topography. Messene is situated upon a rugged mountain,which rises between the two great Morrtiian pliiss,and which thus commands the whole country. Thismountain, about half-way up, divides into two sum­mits, of which the northern was called Ithume u>4the southern Eva. The sharp ridge connectingthem is about half a mile in length. Ml Itlxxutis one of the most striking objects in all I'elopra-nesus. It rises to the height of 2631 feet, or morethan 700 feet higher than the Acrocorintuus; but itlooks much loftier than it really is, in consequenceof its precipitous sides and isolated position.Upon this summit the Acropolis of Meurrje wasbuilt; but the city itself was situated in a hullo*somewhat in the form of a shell, extending on thewest side of the sharp ridge which cunnerta It borneand Eva. The city was connected by a con'iuu>ioswall with its acropolis. There are considerableremains of the ancient city, and the walls may stillbe traced in the greater port of their extent. Theyare most perfect on the northern side, with theArcadian or Megalopolitan gate in the centre. Theymay be followed up to the summit of ItJune, nasithen along the ridge connecting Itbome andEva ; but here towards the south-east traces ofthem are sometimes lost. In this part, however,the foundations of the eastern or Laconian gate,as it has been called, are clearly seen. The sum­mit of Mt. Eva was evidently not included wjthiathe city walls. The direction of the southrrawall is most uncertain. From the eastern gate tothe ruins, which are supposed to be those of lhasouthern gate, and near which the present road rawto the southern Messenian plain, no liue of walls castbe traced ; but on the western side the walls mayagain be clearly followed. The circumference of thawalls is about 47 stadia, or nearly 6 English mils*;but it includes a large space altogether unfit fur lhasite of buildings; and the great extent was duubt>«sintended to receive a port of the surrounding p"p«-lation in time of war. 1'he space included within the city-walls now nm»-sists of corn-fields and pastures amidst woods of wiklolive and oak. Nearly in the centre of lb* anciroxtown is the modern village of Marromati; and nearthe southern gate, at the foot of Mount Era, are twopoor villages, named Simula. On the eastern »lopaof Mount Eva is the monastery of Yurkano, en-bomdin cypress and orange groves, and one of the must TI.AB or ARCADIAN OR sfECAl-Tirot ITAN OAT