OCR Output L1SSUS. LITANOBRIGA- 197 in the \V. part of the island agrees very well withthe supposition that its site was on the spot nowcalled Hdghio Kyrko. This place occupies a smallhollow of the hills facing the sea, like a theatre.Near the church of the Panaghia are what appearto be vestiges of an ancient temple, consisting ofgranite columns, and white marble fragments, ar­chitraves, and pediments. Further on, appears tohave been another temple, and a theatre. The tombsare on the SW. side of the plain. They are workedindependent of the rock, with arched roofs. Thereare perhaps fifty of them. (Pashley, Trap, vol. ii.p. 88; Mm. Class. Ant. vol. ii. p. 298.) Of all the towns which existed on this part of thecoast, Lissus alone seems to have struck coins, afact which agrees very well with the evidence sup­plied by its situation, of its having been a place ofsome trading importance. The harbour is mentionedby Scykx (p. 11*), and the types of the coins areeither maritime, or indicative of the worship of Dic-tynns, as might have been expected on this part ofthe island The obverse of one coin bears theimpress of the caps and stars of the Dioscuri, andits reverse a quiver and arrow. On the second cointhe caps and stars are replaced by a dolphin, andinstead of the quiver a female head, probably thatof Artemis or Dictynna. (Comp. Eckhel, vol. ii.p. 315.) [E. B.J.] ^ LISMJS (A(ff<r«, Strab. vii. p. 316; PtoL ii. 16.§ 5; Steph. B-; Hierocles; PeuL Tab.), a town ofIllyricum, at the mouth of the river Drilo. Dionysiusthe elder, in his schemes for establi>hing settlementssown? the lllyrian tribes, founded Lissus. (Diod.xt. 13.) It was afterwards in the hands of theHlyrians, who, after they had been defeated by theRomans, retained this port, beyond which theirvessels were not allowed to sail. (Polyb. ii. 12.)s. c. 211, Philip of Macedon, having surprisedthe citadel Acrolissus, compelled the town to sur­render. (Polyb. viii. 15.) Genii us, the lllyriankin?, collected his forces here for the war againstEorae. (Liv. xliv. 30.) A body of Roman citizenswas stationed there by Caesar (B. C. iii. 26—29)to defend the town: and Pliny (iii. 26). who saysthat it was 100 M.P. from Kpidaiirus, describes itas "oppidum civium Romanorum.'' Constant)neP'irphyrotreneta (de Adm. Imp. c. 30) calls it *EAi<r-«S and it now bears the name of Lesck (Leake,.WtAem Grtece, vol. iii. p. 477; Schafarik, Slav.Alt. vol. ii. p. 275.) [E. B J.] LISTA (AiVto), a very ancient city of CentralItaly, which, according to Varro (op. Dion. Hal.i. 14). was the metropolis of the Aborigines, whentint people still dwelt hi the mountain valleysairtond Rcate. It was surprised by the Sabines by»tight attack from Ami tern um; and the inhabit­ant* took refuge in Rcate, from whence they made«*eral fruitless attempts to recover possession oftheir city; but failing in this, they declared it, withthe fturrounding territory, sacred to the gods, andittfrecated curses on all who should occupy it.Tlus circumstaj.ee probably accounts for the absence°f all "tlier mention of it; though it would seemikit its ruins still remained in the time of Varro,<* at lira^t that its site was clearly known. Thishas been in modem times a subject of much dispute.Accwdin* to the present text of Dionysius, it wasstoated 24 stadia from Tiora, the ruins of whichare ^ruhably those at Castore near Sta. Anatolia, inthe upper valley of the Salto, 36 miles from Rieti.fcutatu accordingly places it at Sta. Anatolia itself, where there are some remains of an ancient city*But Holstenins long ago pointed out a site about 3miles from Beate itself, on the road from thence toCivita Ditcale, still called Monte dx Lesta, wherethere still exist, according to a local antiquarian,Martelli, and Sir W. Gell, the remains of an ancientcity, with walls of polygonal construction, and asite of considerable strength. The situation ofthese ruins would certainly be a more probable posi­tion for the capital of the Aborigines than one sofar removed as Sta. Anatolia from their other settle­ments, and would accord better with the naturalline of advance of the Sabines from Amiternum,which must have been by the pass of Antrodocoand the valley of the Vclino. In this case we mustunderstand the distance of 24 stadia (3 miles), asstated by Dionysius (or rather by Vnrro, whom hecites), as having reference to Reate itself, not toTiora. (Bunsen, Antichi Stabilimenti Italici, inAnn. d. Inst. Arch. vol. vi. p. 137 ; Gell's Topo­graphy of Rome, p. 472; Holsten. Not. in Cluver.p. 114.) [E.H.B.] LISTRON (Aurrp&v), a place in Epirus Nova,mentioned by Hierocles with a fortress Alxstrus('AAurrpor, Procop. de Aed. iv. 4). It is probablyrepresented by the village and castle of Klisi'traysituated on the river Aous (FtVwa), which is men­tioned by Cantacuzenus (KAcutov/m, ii. 32; comp.Anna Comneua, xiii. p. 390) in the fourteenthcentury, together with other places which are stillto be recognised as having been the chief strong­holds in this part of Greece. [Aors.] (Leake,Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 383.) [E. B. J.] LITA'BRUM. [Vaccaei]. L1TANA SILVA, a forest in the territory of theBoians in Gallia Cispadana, memorable for the de­feat of the Roman consul L. Postumius,in b. c. 216.On this disastrous occasion the consul himselfperished, with his whole army, consisting of twoRoman legions, augmented by auxiliaries to theamount of 25,000 men. (Liv. xxiii. 24; Frontin.Stmt. i. 6. § 4.) At a later period it witnessed,on the other^ hand, a defeat of the Boians by theRoman consul L. Valerius Flaccus, B. c. 195. (Liv.xxxiv. 22.) The forest in question appears to haveIwen situated somewhere between Bononia and Pla-centia, but its name is never mentioned after thereduction of Cisalpine Gaul, and its exact sitecannot be determined. It is probable, indeed, thata great part of the tract between the Apennines andthe marshy ground on the banks of the Padus wasat this time covered with forest. [E. H. B.] LITANOBRIGA, in Gallia, is placed by the An-tonine Itin. between Caesaromagus (Beauvais) andAugustomagus, which D'Anville supposes to be Sen-lis. According to his reading, the Itin. makes itxviii. Gallic leagues from Caesaromagus to Litano-briga, and iiii. from Litanobriga to Augustomagus.VValckenaer (Gcog. c/c, vol. iii. p. 55) makes thefirst distance xvi., and the second iiii.: and he placesCaesaromagus at Verberie, near the river Autone.The Table mentions no place between Caesaromagusand Augustomagus, but it makes the whole distancexxii. We may assume that Litanobriga was situ­ated at a ford or bridge over a river, and this river isthe Oise. D'Anville first thought that Litanobrigamight be Pont Sainte-Maxence, for a Roman roadfrom Beaurais, called Brunehaut, passes by Cler­mont, and joins a road from Pont-Sainte-Maxence.But the numbers in the Itins. fall short of the dis­tance between Beaurais and Senlis; and accordingly o 3