OCR Output 956 SELGOVAE. SEL1XUS. SELGOVAE (2eA7ooGai, Ptol. ii. 3. § 8), apeople on the SW. coast of Britannia Barbara, int he K. part of Galloway and in Dumfries-shire.Camden (p. 1194) derives the name of Solwayfrom them. [T.H.D.] SKLI'XUS (SfAiryCs) 1. A Tillage in the northof Laconia, described by Pausanias as 20 itadiafrom Geionthrae; but as Pausanias seems not tohave visited this part of Laconia, the diatancea maynot he correct. Leake, therefore, places Selinus atthe village <»f /Cosmos, which lies further north ofGeronthrae than 20 stadia, but where there areremains of ancient tombs. (Paua. iii. 22. § 8 jLeake, Peloponmsiaca, p. 363; Boblaye, Ke-cherehetj <fc. p. 97; Curthia, Pelopotmesos, vol. ii.p. 304.) 2. A river in the Triphylian Elis, near Scillus. [SeiLI.US.] 3. A river in Achaia. [ACHAIA, p. 13, b. No. 6.]SELI'NUS (ZtKivovs: Eth. SeAii'oiWios, Scli- nuntius: Iiu. at Torre dei J'ulei). one of the moatimportant of the Greek colonies in Sicily, situated onthe S\V. coast of that bland, at the month of thesmall river of the same name, and 4 miles W. ofthat of the Hypaas (Belici). It was founded, as welearn from Thucydidea, by a colony from the Siciliancity of Megara, or Mogara Hyblaea, under the con­duct of a leader named PammUoa, about 100 yearsafter the settlement of that city, with the additionof a fresh body of colonists from the parent city ofMcgara in Greece. (Time. vi. 4, vii. 57 ; Scymn.Ch. 292; Strab. vi. p. 272.) The date of its foun­dation cannot be precisely fixed, as Thucydides indi­cates it only by reference to that of the SicilianMegara, which is itself not accurately known, butit may be placed about B. c. 628. Diodorui indeedwould place it 22 years earlier, or B. C. 650, andUieronymoa still further back, b. c. 654; but thedate given by Thucydidea, which is probably entitledto the most confidence, is incompatible with thisearlier epoch. (Thuc. vi. 4; Diod. x'ui. 59; Hieron.Chron. ad ami. 1362 ; Clinton, Fast, Hell, vol. i.p. 208.) The name is supposed to have been de­rived from the quantities of wild parsley (<re\ifbs)which grew on the spot; and for the same reason aleaf of this parsley was adopted. as the symbol oftheir coins, Selinus was the most westerly of the Greek colo­nies in Sicily, and for this reason was early broughtinto contact and collision with the Carthaginiansand the barbarians in the W.and NW. of the island.The former people, however, do not at first seem tohave offered any obstacle to their progress; but asearly as B.C 580 we find the Selinuntines engaged inhostilities with the people of Segestm (a non-Helleniccity), whose territory bordered on their own. (Diod.v. 9). The arrival of a body of emigrants fromKhi nles and Cniduawho subsequently founded Lipara,and who lent their assistance to the Scgeiitans, fora time secured the victory to that people; hut dis­putes and hostilities seem to have been of frequentoccurrence between the two cities, aud it is probablethat in u. c. 454, when Dtodorns speaks of theSegestans as being at war with the Litt/baeems(xi. 86), that the Selinuntines are the peoplereally meant. [Lilybaeum.] The river Mazarus,which at that time appears to have formed theboundary between the two states, was only about 15miles W. of Selinus; and it is certain that at aBOtnewhat later period the territory of Selinus ex­tended to its banks, and that that city had a fort and emporium at its mouth. (Diud. xBLSi) Olthe other side its territory certain}! extended s> te­as the Halycus or Salso% at the mouth u wbic ahad founded the colony of Minoa, or Heractae. at *was afterwards termed. (Herod, v. 46.) 1; a in­dent, therefore, that Selinus had car'} attaawe' Ii!great power and prosperity; but we hate ver» kitatinformation as to its history, We learn, bwic,that, like most of the Sicilian cities, it had faaastfrom an oligarchy to a despotUrn, and abctavt510 w as Mil.jvt-t In a -}•■'. m 'i \z -a\ from whom the citizens were freed by the Mbtaaeiof the Spartan Eurjleon, one of tie co:iipai*ea atDorieus: and thereupon Euryleou Limaeif, (a* Mshort time, seized on the vacant sovmbMy, bal *»speedily overthrown and put to death by the Sbmnuntines. (Herod, v. 46.) We are ignorant of IBMcauses which led the $rlinuniines to *\af :. tatcause of the other Greeks, and take part with daaCarthaginians during the great expedition of BBSmilcar, B. c. 480; but we learn that ti.ej tut ram.1promir<ed to send a contingent to the Canhaciaanarmy, which, however did not arrive till after jfiseaa feat' (Diod. xi. 21, xiii. 55.) The Sell real are next mentioned in b. c 466, as co-ccaaatjwith the other free cities of Sicily in asoaaagaflSyracusans to expel Thrasybulus (Id. xL 68); avlthere is every reason to suppose that they ftaflshared in the prosperity of the half centarrfollowed, a period of tranquillity and opaaaaa^flmost of the Greek cities in Sicily. IbacvalHspeaks of Selinus just before the Atheniaa exfafltion as a powerful and wealthy city, poase^sine (Biaresources for war both by land and sea, and aaafllarge stores of wealth accumulated io it* tc^4(Thuc. vi. 20.) Diodorua also represents it attime of the Carthaginian invasion, as harbor ***leja long period of tranquillity, and pos&eafleJBnumerous population. (Diod. xiii. 55.) In b. c. 416, a renewal of the old dvpaiei &■ tween Selinus and Segesta became the HI the great Athenian expedition to Sicily, lac flflnuntines were the first to call in the powerful sadSyracuse, and thus for a time obtained the eeajafladvantage over their enemies, whom they were aBBMblockade both by sea and laud; but in thifexcaaMthe Segestans had recourse to the a^icjatlAthens. (Thuc. vi. 6; Diod. xiL 82.) TaaaajflAthenians do not appear to have taken anj aeajBurea for the immediate relief of Segest*. it & adbable that the Selinuntines and Syracueans »^aaJB|their forces at once, as we bear no more .«f raajoperations against Segeata. Nor docs Sdincs !■any important part in the war of which it —i Jimmediate occasion. Nicias indeed proposed, aflthe expedition first arrived in Sicily (a, cle]that they should proceed at once to £«Hnaavflcompel that city to submit oo moderate tafl(Thuc. vi. 47); but this, advice being cr*erraaai.leffbits of the armament were directed agiinai eflcuse, and the Selinuntines in cxmsequence ban e3secondary part in the subsequent opersiiota*. Sare, however, mentioned on several occa^k«s aiSnishing auxiliaries to the Syracusans; aad d wealSelinus that the large rVlopouneaUan force saauthe support of Gylippus landed in the sprit; *>4flhaving been driven over to the ooaut of Arras Mtempest. (Thuc. vii. 50, 53: Died. ain. II.) JThe defeat of the Athenian armament hat ■Segestans apparently at the mercy o/ (berries!they in vain attempted to disarm the ncetfaUn aft]