OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 25 your authority? You may utterly destroy all La-tium, and make a desert of a country, from which, inmany and difficult wars, you have often been suppliedwith a powerful army of allies. Do you choose, onthe contrary, and in conformity to the practice of yourancestors, to augment the Roman state, by receivingthe vanquished into the number of your citizens !Here is a large addition which you may acquire, bymeans which will redound most highly to your glory.That government which the subjects feel happy inobeying stands certainly on the firmest of all founda­tions. But whatever your determination may be, it isnecessary that it be speedy ; as all those 'states are,at present, suspended between hope and fear. It istherefore of importance that you should be dischargedas soon as possible from all solicitude concerningthem ; and also that, either by punishment or cle­mency, an immediate impression be made on theirminds, before they recover from the state of insensi­bility into which the uncertainty of their fate hasthrown them. It was our part to bring the businessto such an issue that your deliberations concerning itshould be unrestrained in every particular. It is nowyours to determine what is most advantageous to your­selves and the commonwealth.' 14. The principal members of the senate highly ap­proved of the consul's statement of the business, onthe whole ; but said, that ' as the states were differentlycircumstanced, it would conduce to an easy adjustmentof the plan, so as that their resolutions should be con­formable to the several merits of each, if he put thequestion on the case of each state separately.' Thequestion was accordingly put, and a decree passedwith respect to each singly. The Lauuvians were ad­mitted members of the state; the exercise of their pub­lic worship was restored to them, with a provision thatthe grove and temple of Juno Sospita should be incommon between the burghers1 of Lanuvium and the 1 Of the conquered countries the Romans constituted some