OCR Output LIVY. attacked by public authority or private, but whetherjustly or unjustly ? for with respect to a subject of ourgovernment, whether acting under direction of thepublic authority, or. not, the right of inquiry, and ofpunishing, is exclusively our own. The only point,then, that comes into discussion with you is, whetherthe act was allowable according to treaty ? Where­fore, since you chose that a distinction should bemade between what commanders do by public autho­rity, and what of their own will, there is a treaty sub­sisting between us, concluded by your consul Lutatius,in which provision is made for the interest of the alliesof both nations. But there is no clause in favor of theSaguntines ; for they were not at the time in alliancewith you. But then, in the treaty entered into withHasdrubal, the Saguntines are expressly exemptedfrom hostilities. In answer to which, I shall urgenothing but what I have learned from yourselves : foryou asserted that the treaty which your consul CaiusLutatius at first concluded with us, inasmuch as ithad been concluded without either the approbation ofthe senate, 'or an order of the people, was not bindingon you ; and that for that reason another treaty wasratified anew, under the sanction of public authority.Now if your treaties do not bind you, unless sanc­tioned by your approbation and order, surely thetreaty of Hasdrubal, under the same circumstances,cannot be binding on us. Cease therefore to talk, ofSaguntum, and the Iberus; and let your minds atlength give birth to the burden of which they are longin labor.' The Roman then, folding up a corner ofhis robe, said, ' Here we bring you peace, and war;take which you choose.' Which proposal they an­swered with an equal degree of peremtory heat, call­ing out, that ' he should give whichever he chose.'He then threw open the fold again, and said that' hegave war:' they with one voice replied, that ' they ac­cepted it; and with the same.spirit with which theyaccepted it, would prosecute it.' 19. This mode of a direct demand and declaration