OCR Output 320 CLNNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. at most, ten thousand men. It was of more moment thatan agreement should be come to with the Samnites andNolans, so that the troops of the thoroughly trustworthyMetellus might be employed for the protection of thecapital. But the Samnites made demands which recalledthe yoke of Caudium—restitution of the spoil taken fromthe Samnites and of their prisoners and deserters, renun­ciation of the booty wrested by the Samnites from theEomans, the bestowal of the franchise on the Samnitesthemselves as well as on the Romans who had passed overto them. The senate rejected even in this emergencyterms of peace so disgraceful, but instructed Metellus toleave behind a small division and to lead in person all thetroops that could at all be dispensed with in southernItaly as quickly as possible to Rome. He obeyed. But theconsequence was, that the Samnites attacked and defeatedPlautius the legate left behind by Metellus and his weakband; that the garrison of Nola marched out and set onfire the neighbouring town of Abella in alliance with Bome;that Cinna and Marius, moreover, granted to the Samniteseverything they asked—what mattered Roman honour tothem ?—and a Samnite contingent reinforced the ranks ofthe insurgents. It was a severe loss also, when after acombat unfavourable to the troops of the governmentAriminum was occupied by the insurgents, and thus theimportant communication between Rome and the valley ofthe Po, whence men and supplies were expected, was inter­rupted. Scarcity and famine set in. The large populouscity numerously garrisoned with troops was but inade­quately supplied with provisions; and Marius in particulartook care to cut off its supplies more and more. He hadalready blocked up the Tiber by a bridge of ships; nowby the capture of Antium, Lanuvium, Aricia, and otherplaces he gained control over the means of land communi­cation still open, and at the same time appeased temporarilyhis revenge by causing all the citizens, wherever resistancewas offered, to be put to the sword with the exception ofthose who had possibly betrayed to him the town. Contagiousdiseases ensued and committed dreadful ravages among themasses of soldiers densely crowded round the capital; ofStrabo's veteran army 11,000, and of the troops of Octavius6000 are said to have fallen victims to them. Yet thegovernment did not despair; and the sudden death of