OCR Output SUAGELA. SUBUS. 1041 i't continues down to the present day, and themilitants of the surrounding villages relate thatrear! will hold the water. It is now called ra•-..1,1 the Black Waters, and sometimes to: -rtpia, or the Terrihle Waters. (Leake,*ra, ral. Hi. p. 160, seq.; Fiedler, Hcise dttrch■> inland, vol. i. p. 400, who gives a drawingla* Styx: Cm-tins, Petop<mnesos, vol. i. p. 195.)MA'GELA (SouryfAa), a town of Curia, in • h was shown the tomb of Car, the ancestor ofUh Carians ; the place was in fact believed to>t received its name from this circumntance, forCanan oeva figuified a tomb, and ytkas a king,vpo. B. #. r.) Strabo, who calls the place- . i< -v:i. p. 611), states that this towq and■xus were preferred at the lime when Mausolustfd mx other towns to fonn Halicarnassus. [L.S.]H.WNA (2ovcvoh Ptol.: F.th. Suunensis: Savant),nra of Southern Etruria, situated in the valley of>Fiorn (Arminia), about 24 miles from the sea,120 W. of Volsuui (liolsena). No mention of it isr. 1 in history as an Etruscan city, but both Pliny i Ptolemy notice it as a municipal town of Etruriatt t.ie ttoman Empire. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; Ptol.I- | 49.) Its site is clearly marked by thefern town of Sorana or Soana, which was a eon-raiwe place in the middle ages, and still retainsi title of a city, and the see of a bishop, thoughr s very poor and decayed place. It has only * fclirbt remains of Roman antiquity, but theifi anmnd the town abound with tombs hewnt* rack, and adorned with architectural facades »• f t-, Wrongly resembling in characterit at Castrl d Asso and Bicda. These relics,Eh are pronounced to be among the most interest-fi tee kind in Etruria, were first discovered byAuuley in 1843, and are described by him inArnnuiidelT Institute di Corrispondenzn Archen-mfcr 1843 (pp. 223—226); also by Mr. Dennisr»rit, vol. i. pp. 480—500). [E. EL B.]ORDONES, a tribe of the Suevi in Northernmany, on the right hank of the Albin. south of>aiooes, and north of the Langobardi. (Tac.40.) Zeuas (Die tkutschen, p. 154), de- V then* name from stutrd or sward (a sword),mis it as identical with that of the Pharodini,thmed by Ptolemy (ii. 1 L § 13) as living injy the nine part of Germany. [L. S.] V A l.'XI, a rude people of Asiatic Sarmatia, in theIbourbuod of the Portae Caucasiae and the Rha.fpraeaeed gold mines (Plin. vi. 11. s. 12). Theyprobably the same people whom Ptolemy callstit (2ovporof, V. 9. § 20) and places betweenHippie and Ceraunian mountains. [T. H. IK] - \ 1 wd -a : Eth. Sua&anus: Ru. near Casttltr), a town of Umbria mentioned both by PtolemyPiny, of whom the latter reckons it among thein pal towns of that country. Ptolemy places it.Iher wjthtQstra, in the district of the Senones,u wt*s tlterefore situated w the northern decli-rf the Apennines. Its site is clearly identified■ between 8. Lorenzo and Castel Jsone in•ii>y of the Ccsano, about 18 miles from theConsiderable ruins were still extant on thea tbe time of Cluver. including the remains of■alia, gate*, a theatre, &c; and inscriptions1 there left no doubt of their identification,rer, itaL p. 620.) [E. EL It.J "ASTrTNE (Zowrhrn, Ptol. vii. 1. § 42),rrict in the XW. of India, beyond the Panjdb,ibove tiie junction of the Kabul river and the M. IL Indus. It derives its name from the small riverSuastus (the Suvastu or Suwatf), which is one of thetributaries of the Kabul river. [GOBTA.] [V.j SUASTUS. [Suastenk] SUBANECTI. [Silvankctes.] SUBATIL [Tubantks.] SUBD1NNUM. [Cexomani.] SUBEKTUM, another reading oCSmERTrM. SUBI, a river on the E. coast of HUpania Tarra-conensis, which entered the sea near the town ofSubur. (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4.) Probablv the modemFrancolL [T. H. D.] SUBLA'QUEUM (Subiaco),a. place in the valleyof the Anio about 24 miles above Tibur (Tivoli).j It derived its name from its situation below thelake or lakes formed by the waters of the Anio inI this part of its course, and called the SimbklinaStaona or SiMBRivit Laci;s. These hikes havenow entirely disappeared: they were evidently ingreat part artificial, formed as reservoirs for theAqua Marcia and Aqua Claudia, both of which werederived from the Anio in this part of its course. There; is no mention of Sublaqueum before the time of Nero,who bad a villa there railed by Krontinua "Villa Ne-roniana Sublacensis;'' and Tacitus mentions the nameas if it was one not familiar to every one. (Tac. xiv.22; Frontin. de Aquaed. 93). It seems certain there­fore that there was no town of the name, and itwould appear from Tacifua (L c.) that the placew&4 included for municipal purposes within theterritory of Tibur. Pliny also notices the name ofSublaqueum in the 4th Region of Augustus, butnot among the municijal towns: as well as thelakes (" lacus tres amoeuitntenobiles") from which itwas derived. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It appears frommediaeval records that these Likes continued toexist down to the middle ages, and the last of themdid not disappear till the year 1305. (Xibby, Din-torni, vol. iii. p. 125.) Subiaco obtained a greatcelebrity in the middle ages as the place of retire­ment of St. Benedict, and the cradle of the celebratedj monastic order to which he gave his name. Itseems probable that the site was in his time quite, deserted, and that the modern town owes its origin( to the monastery founded by him, and a castle, which was soon after established in its neighbnur-j hood. (Nibby, L c. p. 123.) [K. H. B.] SURLA'VIO (It. Ant. p. 280) or SUBLA'BIO(Tab. Pent), a place in Rhactia, on the site of thej modem convent of St ft *, near the .town of Clausen.Some suppose the correct name to be Subsavione,which occurs in a middle age document of the reignof the emperor Conrad II. [L. S.] SUBUR (2ov€ovp, Ptol. ii. 6. § 17), a town ofthe Laectani in Hispania Tarruconensis lying E. ofTarraco. (Mela, ii. 6.) Ptolemy (L c) ascribes itto the Cosetani, and Pliny (iii. 3. s. 4) to the Iler-getes. It is mentioned in an inscription. (Gruter,p. 414.) Variously identified with cityt* and VMa-uiiera. [T. H. I).] SUBUR (lovtovp, Ptol. iv. 1. § 13). 1. A town inthe interior of Maurctania Tingitana, near the riverof the same name. 2. (Ptol. iv. 1. § 2), a river of Manrrtania Timri-tana. Pliny (v. 1. s. 1) calls it a fine navigableriver. It fell into the Atlantic near Colonia Bannsa,50 miles S. of Lixu*. It is still called Subti or Cub*,nnd rises among the forests of Mount SttU/o in theprovince of Sciaus (Graberg of Heinsit, Das Kaisrr-retch Mnrokko, tr. by Reumont, p. 12). [T H. \).] SUBUS (XoGGos, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8), a river on tbe 3 x