OCR Output STRIA. SYRIA. 1077 r werfal in the time of Saul and David was ZoKili, i ipprars from the number of men which thatt>( If brought into the field against David ( lb. viii.). «nd from the rich booty of which they were**Jed by the Israelites (/6. v. 7). Even after sus-ir.mt; a signal defeat, they were able in a little timeuke the field again with a considerable force (fb.r>). David nevertheless subdued all Syria, which,«**rer, recovend its independence after the deathN>l<«non, B.c. 975. From this period Damascus, r history of which iias been already given [Da-1-4 is. Vol. I. p. 748], became the most consider-.« U the Syrian kingdoms. Syria was conqueredI ijbth-IMescr, king of Assyria, about the year7 it c, and was annexed to that kingdom. Hence•LHTev-ively furmed part of the llaby Ionian andrun empires; but its history presents nothingrjirkable down to the time of its conquest hy■-under the Great. After the death of that con-'fi< m b.c 323, Syria and Mesopotamia fell to• -hare of his general Seleucus Nicator. The so~vigiit/ of SeJeucns, however, was disputed bylijonax, and was not established till after theIk of Ipaua, in 301 b.c, wlien he founded An- ii on I he Orontea, as the new capital of his king-n- [AicTiocfiElA, Vol. I. p. 142.] From thisi^i the descendants of Scleucua, known by the•eihUMO of Seleucidae, occupied the throne of down to the year 65 b.c. when AntiochusII. Akiaricus was dethroned by Pompoy, and Syriaj.-;a Roman province. (Plut. Pump. 39; Ap-d. .Syr. 46; Eutrop. vi. 14.) Into the history of4 iiDtier the Seleucidae it is unnecessary torr, hi ice a table of that dynasty is given in thei-'«wrry of liutgraphy [Vol. III. p. 769], and the t vents wiit be found described in the lives ofr»~-ive monarcbs. [ he tract of which Pompey took possession underi«rr« of Syria comprised the whole country frompill' of Issus and the Euphrates to Egypt and.tcsertw of Arabia. (Appiun, Syr. 50, Mith.u) The proriiic*, however, did not at firstfre!i«ni tlx! whole of this tract, but consistedWy of av strip of land along the sea-coast, which,i the- jrulf of Issua to lMiuascus, was of slenderbut which to the S. of that city spread'"-it av* far as the town of Canatha. The restj-irrelled out in such a manner that put coii-•i of tl*** territories of a great number of free*i*J |*art was assigned to various petty princes,we absolute dependence upon Rome led to theiriawa* bring gradually incorporated into tho pro-( Appian, Syr. 50.) The extent of the pro-t vu> thn.s continually increased during the. mturv of the Empire; and in the time of Ha-■> havl become so large, that a partition of it<!eemexi advisable. Commagene, the mosthero of the ten districts into which, according tonor fr. 15), the upper or northern Syria was'-+•■1. had become an independent kingdom beforet.^*# of Foriipey's conquest, and therefore did noti part of the province established by him. [Com-Vol. I. p. 651.] The extent of this pro-- may be determined by tho free cities intoji ^ wavi divided by Pompey; the names offc known jsirtly from their being mentioned-»phtu» {A»i. xiv. 4. § 4). and partly from thewturli they used, namely that of n.c C3, thei.. which they received their freedom. In this»- are enabled to enumerate the following citiesp* original province of Syria: Antiocheiu, 5c- leuceia in Pieria, Epiphancia, between Arelliusa andEinesa, Apatneia; nearly all the towns nf the Deca-polis, as Abila (near Gadara), Anti'icheia ad Hip-pum or Hippos, Canatha, Dium, Gadara, iVlhi, ;tndPhiladelphia; in Phoenicia, Tripoli*, Sidun, Tyrua,Dora; in the north of Palestine, Scythopolis andSamaria ; on the coast, Turns Stratonis (Caesareia),Joppe, Iamncia, Ascot us, Gaza; and in the south,Marissa. The gift of freedom to so many cities isnot to be attributed to the generosity of the Romans,but must be regarded as a necessary measure ofpolicy. All these towns had their own jurisdiction,and administered their own revenues; but they weretributary to tho Romans, and their taxes were leviedaccording to the Roman system established on theorganisation of the province. ("Syria turn primtunfacta est stipendiaria," Veil. Pat. ii. 37.) Tho firstgovernors of Syria, and especially Gabinins, who wasproconsul in the year 57 B.C., took much pains inrestoring the cities which had been destroyed.(Joseph. Ant. xiv. 5, § 3.) The divisions esta­blished in Judaea by Gabinius have been noticed inanother article. [Palakstina, Vol. II. p. 532.]Caesar, during his expedition against Pharnaces,B.C. 47, confirmed these cities in their rights, andlikewise extended them to others, as Gabala, Laodiceia ad Marc, and Ptolemais. (Eckhel, vol. hi.p. 314, sq.; Norisius, Ep. Syrom, pp. 175—213,450.) Of tho regulations adopted in Syria duringthe reign of Augustus we have little information. The same political reasons which dictated the es­tablishment of these free cities, where it was possibleto do so, rendered the continuance of dynasticgovernments necessary in the eastern and southerndistricts of the province, where either the nomadiccharacter of the population, or its obstinate adherenceto ancient institutions was adverse to the introduc­tion of new and regular forms of government.These dynasties, however, like the free cities, wereused as the responsible organs of the Roman ad­ministration, and were tributaries of Rome. Thus,in the histories of Commagene and .Judaea, we findinstances in which their sovereigns were cited to ap­pear at Rome, were tried, condemned, and punished.The Roman idea of a province is essentially a finan­cial one. A province was considered as a " praediumpnunli Romani" (Cic. Verr. ii. 3); and hence thed} nasties of Syria may be considered as belonging tothe province just as much as the free towns, since,like them, they were merely instruments for thocollection of revenue. (Cf. Huschke, Crber dm znrZtii der Gtbnrt Jesu Christi gthnltenen Cm*us,pp. 100—112.) Thus we find these petty sovereignsin other parts of the world regarding themselvesmerely as the agent*, or procurators, of the Romani#oplc (Sail. Jug. 14; Maffei, Mtu. Ver. p. 234);nor were they allowed to subsist longer than wasnecessary to prepare their subjects for incorporationwith the province of which they were merely ad­juncts. The Syrian dynasties were as follows: I. Chnlcisnd Return. 2. The dynasty of Arethnsa and Emesa.3. Abila. 4. Damascus. 5. Judaea. 6. Palmyra.These states have boon treated of under their re­spective names, and we shall here only add a fewparticulars that may serve further to illustrate thehistory of some of them during the time that theywere under the Roman sway. All that is essentialto be known respecting the iirst three dynasties hasalready been recorded. With regard to Damascus,! it may be added that M. Aemilius Saurus, the first 3 z 3