OCR Output 132 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. democrats.121. restoration nothing further than a relapse of the state-machine into the old track which had been beaten and wornfor centuries. Restoration is always revolution; and in thiscase it was not so much the old government as the oldgovernor that was restored. The oligarchy made its appear­ance newly equipped in the armour of the tyrannis whichhad been overthrown. As the senate had beaten Gracchusfrom the field with his own weapons, so it continued in themost essential points to govern with the constitution of theGracchi; though certainly with the secret intention, if notof setting it aside entirely, at any rate of thoroughly purgingit in due time from the elements really hostile to the rulingaristocracy.Piosecu- At first the reaction was mainly directed against persons, tions of the Public Popillius was recalled from banishment after the 'enactments relating to him had been cancelled (633), and a warfare of prosecution was waged against the adherents ofGracchus; whereas the attempt of the popular party tohave Lucius Opimius after his resignation of office condemnedfor high treason was frustrated by the partisans of the120. government (634). The character of this government of therestoration is significantly indicated by the progress of thearistocracy in soundness of opinion. Gaius Carbo, once theally of the Gracchi, had for long been a convert (P. 106), andhad but recently shown his zeal and his usefulness asdefender of Opimius. But he remained a renegade: whenthe democrats raised the same accusation against him asagainst Opimius, the government were not unwilling to lethim fall, and Carbo, seeing himself lost between the twoparties, died by his own hand. Thus the men of the reac­tion showed themselves in personal questions pure aristo­crats. But the reaction did not immediately attack the dis­tributions of grain, the taxation of the province of Asia, orthe Gracchan arrangements as to the jurymen and the tri­bunals; on the contrary, it not only spared the mercantileclass and the proletariate of the capital, but continued torender homage, as it had already done in the introductionof the Livian laws, to these powers and especially to theproletariate far more decidedly than had been done by theGracchi. This course was not adopted merely because theGracchan revolution retained a hold on the minds of its con­temporaries and protected its creations; the fostering andcherishing of the interests of the populace at least by the