OCR Output 430 N1LUS. KILUrOLIS. with Seneca's description of the Hill Faludes asu immcnsas qnarum exitus nec inoolae noverant necsperare qawquun potest." [Nilus.] [W. It. 1).] NILUTOLIS (N*i\oujroA.iT, PtoL v. 5. § 57;Staph. U. $.v,: NflAoiroAfriff), wu a city of MiddleAegypt, built upon an bland of the Nile, in theHeracleopolite nome, and about eight miles NK. ofHeittcleopolu Magna. Nilupolia is sometimes calledsimply Nilus, and appean to he the town mentionedander the hitter name by Hecataeoa (Fragment.277). It was existing as late as the 5th centurya. i>., since it is mentioned in the Acts of the Coun­cil of Ephetus, a. d. 430. [W. B. D.] NILUS (6 NcZXof), the river Nile in Egypt Ofall the more important rivers of the globe known tothe Greek and Roman writers, the Nile was thatwhich from the remotest periods arrested their live­liest cariosity and attention. It ranked with themas next in magnitude to the Ganges and the Indus,and as surpassing the Danube in the length of itscourse and the volume of its waters. (Strab. xv.p. 702.) Its physical phenomena and the peculiarcivilisation of the races inhabiting its batiks attractedAlike the historian, the mathematician, the satirist,and the romance-writer: Herodotus and Diodorua,Eratosthenes and Strabo, Lucian and Holiodorut,expatiate on its marvels; and as Aegypt was theresort of the scientific men of Greece in general, theNile was more accurately surveyed and describedthan any other river of the earth. The word Nilus, if it were not indigenous, was ofSemitic origin, and probably transmitted to theGreeks by the Phoenicians, Its epithets in variouslanguages—e. g. the Hebrew Sihhor (/soiaA, xxiii.3; Jerem. ii. 18), the Aegyptiau Chemi, and theGreek /ue'Aas (Servius, ad Virgil* Georg. iv, 291)—point to the same peculiarity of its waters, the hueimparted by their dark slime. The Hebrews en­titled the Nile Nahal-Misraim, or river of Aegypt;but the natives called it simply p-iero (whence pro­bably the Nubian tier) or the river (i. c. of rivers).Lydus (da Men.nbusy ft 8) says that it was some­times termed Has or dark; and Pliny (v. 9. s. 9;coinp. Dionys. Perieg. v. 213) observes, somewhatvaguely, that in Aethiopia the river was called Siris,and did not acquire the appellation of Nilus beforeit readied Syeue. With tew exceptions, however,the Greeks recognised the Dame of Nilus as far southas Mere*; and above that meaopotamian region theymerely doubted to which of its tributaries they shouldassign the principal name. Homer, indeed (Od. iii.300, iv. 477, &<•.), calls the river Aegypt us, fromthe appellation of the land which it intersects. HutHesiod (Tktog. 338) and Hecalaeus (AVrym. 279—2S0), and succeeding poets and historian-? uniformlydesignate the river of Aegypt as tlie Nile. It is unnecessary to dwell on a theory at one timereceived, but generally discredited by the ablest ofthe ancient geographers—that the Nile rose inLower Maurelania, not far from the Western Ocean(Juba, tip, Plin. v. 9. s. 10; Dion Ca-ss. Ixxv. 13;Solin. e. 35); that it flowed in an easterly direction;was engulphed by the sands of the Sahara; re­appeared as the Nigir; again sunk in the earth,and came to light once more near the Great Lakeof Ihbitya as the proper Nile, Historically, the Nile derives its principal import­ance from the civilisation, to which it contributed somaterially, of the races inhabiting its shores), fromthe S. of Meroe northwards to the Mediterranean.But for geographical purposes it is necessary to ex- amine its course, in the first instance, throaih leaknown regions, and to ascertain, if possible. n*iof its feeders above Meroe was regarded by tin a>cients as the true Nile. The course of tbe tfrctimay be divided into three heads: — (1) the rifleS. of Meroe; (2) between Meroe and Syeoe; ttj(3) between Syene, or Thilae, and the Mediter­ranean. (1.) The Nile above Meroe. — The sarinsbriefly described the Nile as springinc fnxn msfttl(Nill Palndts) at the foot of the MnuttaimeflMoon. Hut as all the rivers which flow northutfrom the Abyssinian highlands rise from lips*and generally expand themselves into broadtins description is too vague. Neither is itwhether they regarded the White River, or theor the Astaboras (Tacazze), as the channel oftrue Nile. The names of rivers are often ciwtpriciously: it by no means follows that tor/imposed upon the principal arm or tribatsry;hence wc can assign neither to the Astsposthe White River, usually considered ss thestream, the distinction of being absolutely tbs"Nile." The Nile, as Strabo Fagaciously remarks (li]493), was well known because it was tbe cfcof active commerce; and his observation, if sto its southern portions, may lead us to the dwhich was really regarded as the principaleven in remotest ages. The stream most fitand accessible to navigation, and whose banks ajthe most thickly peopled, was doubtless theearliest attracted attention, and this we bel*mhave been the Astapus (Bakr-el-Azrtk, ■River), As the sources b»th of the Blue River andBahr-tl-Abiad or the White fitter are uDcertaiBjwill be projvr to examine the&c streamspoint of junction near the modem military Iat Khartum, kit. 15°37'N., long. 33° E.Astaboras {Tacazze) may fur the present Imissed, both as an inferior tributary, and atthe meeting of the two main streams. The White River, which has been oftennated as ** the true Nile," has at no period beena road for traffic nor favourable to the sctifeotwman on its banks. It is rather an immensethan a river, is often from 5 to 7 miles inand its sides are in general so low as to beat times with alluvial deposit to afrom 2 to 3 miles beyond the stream,shorts there is neither any town, nor anyof there haying ever been one; normany leagues up the stream, do thenspots suited either to the habitation of nture, or to tillage. On the contrary, it isby travellers much in the same terms inneca (Xatur. Quaest. vi. 8) speaks ofPallidas, as seen by Nero's surveyors,are described by the Roman philosopherinensas paludes, quarum exitus necrant, nec sjierare quisquam potest, ita Iaquis hcrbae sunt," &c.: the former by lplorers as "an interminable tea of grass*'stagnant marsh," &c. As the Whit*approaches the higher table-land of tbe > .become less depressed, and arcthe weedy lagoon* extend nearly 100 aof Khartum. Hut it we trace upwards the channel ofRiver, a totally different spectacle