OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 273 And here It may not be improper to observe as a circumstancetruly admirable, that Orpheus, Homer, Plato, and the Chal- ,dæan oracles, have unanimously characterized Jupiter by theduad. Thus both Orpheus and Plato call hifo by a two-foldname Jia and the former signifying that he is the cause through which things subsist; and the latter his vivific power: forhe is the first cause of vivification. Plato too, in the Parmc-nidet, characterizes him by the dialectic epithets.yslmfn^// and dif­ference. Homer places two urns by his throne. And he is calledby the Chaldscan oracles in leuirnt, twice leyond. The twofaces of Janus, therefore, as he is the fame with the Jupiter ofthe Greeks, admirably correspond with the dual characteristicassigned to that divinity by the most ancient theologists. I add, that the reader must not be disturbed on finding thatJupiter is called a demon, at this epithet is only given to himin the way of analogy. For, as it is the employment of essentialdæmons to attend on the gods, and proximately preside overinferior natures; so each subordinate order of gods, from fol­lowing the operations of its proximate superior order, and pre­siding over subject natures, may be called analogically, dæ-moniacul with respect to that order. It is in this fenseof the word that Plato, in the Timæus, calls the sublunarygods dtmnns in one place, aud in anothergods of gnds; and thatin the Banquet, he calls Love a mighty dæmon, and in the Phce-drus a god. But not only gods were called dæmons by ancienttheologists, but intellects, foul;;, dæmons, and even men werecalled gods by them. Each, however, was thus denominated ina different respect. For inlelleSs were called gods according tounion ; fouls, according to participation i demons, according to cen­tal}; and men, according to similitude; while, in the mean time,such as are properly gods were assigned this appellation essentially.The observation of these diltiiittions will enable the philosophicreader to solve many apparent inconsistencies in the writings ofancient theologists, and convince him that the ancients believed Vol. III. T ia