OCR Output 56 1NTERAMNA. INTERCISA. course of the Nar, so that it should no longer flowinto the Tiber. (Tac. Ann. L 79.) In the civil warbetween Yltellius and Vespasian it was occupied bythe troops of the former while their head-quarterswere at Naniia, but was taken witii little resistanceby Arrius Varus. (Id. Hist. iii. 61, 63.) Inscrip­tions sufficiently attest the continued municipal im­portance of Interanina under the Roman empire; and,though its position was some miles to the right ofthe great Flaminian highway, whicli proceeded fromNaniia direct to Mevania (Strab. v. p. 227; TacHut. ii. 64), a branch line of road was carried fromNaniia by Interanma and Spoletium to Forum Fla-minii, where it rejoined the main highroad. Thisline, which followed very nearly thai of the presenthighroad from Home to Ptrwjia^ appears to havelatterly become the more important of the two, andis riven in the Antoninc and Jerusalem Itinerariesto the exclusion of the true Via Flaminia. (/Jin,Ant. p. 125; /tin. Hier. p. 613; Tub. Petit.) Thegreat richness of the meadows belonging to lnter­arnna on the banks of the Nar is celebrated by Pliny,who tells us that they were cut for hay no less thanf >ur times in the year (Piin. xviii. 28. s. 67); andTacitus also represents the same district as amongthe most fertile in Italy (Tac, Ann. i. 79). Thatgreat historian himself is generally considered as anative of lnterarnna, but without any distinct au*thority: it appears, however, to have been subse­quently the patrimonial residence, and probably thebirthplace, of his descendants, the two emperors Ta­citus and Florinnus. (Vopisc Fturian. 2.) In A.i>.193, it was at Interanina that a deputation fromthe senate met the emperor Septimius Severus, whenon his inarch to the capital (Spartian. Sever. 6);and at a later period (a. i>. 253) it was there thatthe two emperors, Trebunianus Gall us and his sou Vo-luaianus, who were on their march to oppose Aemili-anuainMoesia^wcrc put to death by their own soldiers.(Kutrop. ix. 5; Vict. Cats, 31, EpiL'M.) IntcruinnA became tlie see of a bishop in veryearly times, and has subsisted without interruptionthrough the middle ages on its present site; thename being gradually corrupted into its modern formof Term, It is still a nourishing city, and retainsvarious relics of its ancient importance, including theremains of an amphitheatre, of two temples supposedt<> have been dedicated to the sun and to Hercules,and some portions of the ancient Thermae. None ofthese ruins are, however, of much importance or in-tt-rrst Many inscriptions have also been discoveredon the site, and are preserved in the Palazzo Publico.About 3 rnil»»s above Terni is the celebrated cas­cade of the Velinus, which owes its origin to theRoman M\ Curiua; it is more fully noticed underthe article Velixvs. 3. (Teritmo), a city of Picenum, in the territoryof the Praetutii, and probably the chief place in thedistrict of that people. The name is omitted byPliny, but is found in Ptolemy, who distinctly assignsit U> the Praetutii; mod it is mentioned also in theLiber Coloniarum among the "Civiutcs Piceni."It there bears the epithet of ** Palest ina," or, as thename U elsewhere written, " Paletina;" the originand meaning of which are wholly unknown. (Ptol. iii.1. § 58; LA. Col pp. 226, 259.) In the genuinefragment* of Fruntimis, on the other hand, the citi­zens are correctly designated a» " Intcramuatea Prae-tutiani." (Frootin. i. p. 18, ed. Lachin.) Being si­tuated in the interior of the country, at a distancefrom the highroads, the name it nut found in the Itineraries, but we know that it was an episcopalsee and a place of some importance under the Ro­man empire. The name is already corrupted in ourMSS. of the Liber Coloniaruni into Teramne, whenceits modern form of Tt-ramo. But in the middleages it appears to have been known also by thename of Aprutium, supposed to be a corruption ofPraetutiuin, or rather of the name of the peoplePraetutii, applied (as was so often the case in Gaul)to their chief city. Thus we find the name of Abru-tium among the cities of Picenum enumerated bythe Geographer of Ravenna (iv. 31); and under tlieLombards we find mention of a "comes AprutiL"The mime has been retained in that of Abruzzo. n>*wgiven to tho two northernm<*t provinces of thekingdom of Naples, of one of which, called AbruzzoUlteriore, the city of Teramo is still the capital.Vestiges of the ancient theatre, of baths and otherbuildings of Itoman date, as well as statues, altars,and other ancient remains, have been discovered onthe site: numerous inscriptions have been also hmi*d,in one of which the citizens arc designated as *" In-teramnites Praetutiani." (Romanelli, vol iii. pp.297—301; Mommsen, /. R. A", pp. 329—331.) There is no foundation for the existence of a fourth,city of the name of lnterarnna among the Frentani,as assumed by Romanelli, and, from him, by Cramer,on the authority of a very apocrvphal inscription.[Frentani.] [E.U.B.] INTERAMNE'SIA (Phlegon. uV Ltmaaee. I:EOt. Interatnnienses, Plin. iv. 21. s. 35), a stipen­diary town of Lusitauia, named in the inscription ofAlcantara, and supposed by Ukert to have beensituated between the Coa and Touroes, near CartelHotlrigo and Almeida, (Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1.p. 398.) [P-&] INTERAMNIUM. [Astcrim.]INTKRCATIA. [Vaccael]INTERCISA or AD INTERCISA, is the namegiven in the Itineraries to a station on the ViaFlaminia, which evidently derives this name fromits being situated at the remarkable tunnel or gallrrvhewn through the rock, now known as the Passo delFurlo. {/tin. I/ier. p. 614; Tab. PetU.) Thiapassage, which is still traversed by tho modernhighway from Rome to Fanof is a work of the em­peror Ves|iasian, as an inscription cut in the rockinforms us, and was constructed in the seventhyear of his reign, a. d. 75. (Iuacr. ap. Cluvrr,Itat. p. 619.) It is also noticed among tlie publicworks of that emperor by Aurelius Victor, »ho callsit Petra Pertusa; and the same name (lU'rpa vi^.rowro) is given to it by Procopius, who has left usa detailed and accurate description of the locality.(Vict. Cue*. 9, EpiL 9; Procup. B. G. ii. 11.) The valley of the Cantiano, a tributary of theyMetaurus, which is here followed by the FlamiutauWay, u at this point so narrow that it is only bycutting the road out of the solid rock that it can t«carried along the face of the precipice, and, in addi­tion to this, tlie rock iuelf is in one place pierced byan arched gallery or tunnel, which gave rise to thename of Petra Pertuaa. The actual tunnel is only126 feet long, but the whole length of the pas* iaabout half a mile. Clandian alludes to this remark*able work iu terms which prove the adtniratiun thatit excited. (Claud, de VI. Cons. Hon, soa.) Ata later period the pass was guarded by a fort, which,from its completely commanding the Flamuiian Way,became a military post of importance, and ia re­peatedly mentioned during lite wan of the Goth*