OCR Output MARRUCINI. 279 MARRUVIUM. (Lir. TiiL 29; Xiebuhr, vol. i. p. 101): and hencewe find the Marrucini generally following the lead•ml sharing the fortunes of the Marsi and Peligni.But in b. c 311 they appear to have taken partwith the Samuites, though the other confederatesremained neuter; as in that year, according toDiudoru, they were engaged in open hostilities withBime. (Diod. xiz. 105.) No mention of this island in Livy, nor is their name noticed in B. c. 308,when the Marai and Peligni appear in hostility tokVme; but a few years after, b. c. 304, all threenations, together with the Frentani, united in send­ing amba**adors to sue for peace, and obtained atreaty of alliance on favourable terms. (Liv. ix. 41,45; Diod. xx. 101.) From this time the Marru-rini became the firm and faithful allies of Rome;and are repeatedly mentioned among the auxiliariessming in the Roman armies. (Dionys. xx. Fr.Didst; Pol. ii. 24; Lix.xliv. 40; Sil. Ital. viii. 519.)During the Second Punic War their fidelity wasanthaken, though their territory was repeatedly tra-Twed and ravaged by Hannibal (Liv. xxii. 9, xxvi.11; PoL iii. 88); and we find them, besides furnish­ing their usual contingent to the Roman armies,providing supplies for Claudius Nero on his marchto the Metaurus, and raising a force of volunteersto soiist Scipio in his expedition to Africa. (Liv.xxrii. 43, xxviii. 45.) In the Social War, however,they fallowed the example of the Marsi and Peligni,and, though their name is less often mentioned thantaat of their more powerful neighbours, they appearto hare borne an important part in that momentouscontest. (Appian, B. C. i. 39,46; Liv. Epit lxxii.;On*, v. IS.) Thus Herius Asinius, who is calledby Livy " praetor Marrucinoruin," and was slain in«k of the battles between Marius and the Marsi, isparticularly noticed as one of the chief leaders of thelultan allies. (Liv. Epit. lxxiiL; Veil. Pat. ii. 16;Appian, B. C. i. 40.) But before the close of theyor 89 B, c. they were defeated, and their territoryravaged by Sulpicius, the lieutenant of Pompeius,and *ouo after reduced to submission by Pompeiushimself. (Liv. Epit lxxvi.; Oros. V. 18; Appian,B. C. i. 52.) The Mamtcini were at this time admitted to theBonun franchise, and became quickly merged in theordinary condition of the Italian subjects of Rome.Hence their name is from henceforth rarely found inhistory; though it is incidentally noticed by Cicero,« well as by Caesar, who traversed their territory<a bis march from Corfinium into Apulia. (Cic.pro Cluau. 19; Caes. B. C. i. 23, ii. 34.) In B. c.43. *1m>, they were among the most prominent todecUre themselves against Antonius. (Cic. 77///.vii. 8.) From these notices it is evident that theyrill retained their municipal existence as a separatepeople; and we learn from the geographers that thiscontinued to be the case under the Roman Empire•aw; but the name gradually sank into disuse.TVir territory was comprised, as well as that ofthe Yestini, in the Fourth Region of Augustus; inthe subsequent distribution of the provinces, it isnrt quite clear to which it was assigned, the LiberCblurtiarum including Teste among the "CivitatesPifeoi," while P. Diaconns refers it, together withtie 1'ieotani, to the province of Samninm. (Strab. v.*.Ml; Pun. iii. 12. s. 17; PtoL iii. 1. § 60; Lib.CW. p258: P. Diac. ii. 20.) The territory of the Marrucini (ager Marrncinus,Pas.: i) Mod^owii'n, Strab.), though of small extent,»«• fertile, and, from its situation on the E. of the Apennines, sloping towards the sea, enjoyed a muchmilder climate than that of the neighbouring Peligni.Hence it produced oil, wine, and com in abundance,and appears to have been noted for the excellenceof its fruit and vegetables, (Plin. xv. 19. b. 21;Coiumell. x. 131.) It would appear to have beensubject to earthquakes (Plin. ii. 83. s. 85, xv ii. 25.s. 38); and hence, probably, arose the apprehensionexpressed by Statius, lest the mountains of the Mar­rucini should be visited by a catastrophe similar tothat which had recently occurred in Campania.(Stat. Silv. iv. 4. 86.) The only city of importance belonging to theMarrucini was Tkate, now Ckieti, which is calledby several writers their metropolis, or capital city.At a later period its municipal district appears tohave comprised the whole territory of the Marrucini.Interpromii'm, known only from the Itineraries,and situated on the Via Valeria, 12 miles fromCorfinium, at the Osteria di S. Valentino, was nevermore than a village or viens in the territory of Teate.Pollitium, mentioned by Diodorus (xix. 105) as acity of the Marrucini, which was besieged by theRomans in- n. c. 311, is wholly unknown. Atrr-kum, at the mouth of the river of the same name,served as the port of the Marrucini, but belongedto the Vestini. (Strab. v. p. 241.) [E. H. B.] MARRU'VIUM or MARRU'BIUM (Mapoviov,Strab.: Elk. Marruvius: & Benedetto), the chiefcity of the Marsi, situated on the eastern shore ofthe lake Fucinns, and distant 13 miles from AlbaFucensis. Ancient writers agree in representing itas the capital of the Marsi; indeed, this is suffi­ciently attested by its name alone; Marruvii orMarmbii being evidently only another form of thename of the Marsi, and being thus used by Virgil asan ethnic appellation (Momnia de gente, Am.vii. 750). In accordance with this, also, SiliusItalicus represents Marruvium as deriving its namefrom a certain Marrns, who is evidently only aneponymous hero of the Marsi. (Sil. Ital. viii. 505.)We have no account of Marruvium, however,previous to the Roman conquest of the Marsicterritory; but under the Roman Empire it was aflourishing municipal town; it is noticed as suchboth by Strabo and Pliny, and in inscriptionswe find it called "splendidissima civitas MarsommMarruvium." (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin. iii. 12. s.17;Mommsen, Truer. R. N. 5491, 5499; Orell. Inter.3149.) It seems, indeed, to have been not unfrequentlycalled "Civitas Marsorum," and in the middle ages"Civitas Marsicana:" hence, even in the LiberColoniarum, we find it called "Marsns mnnicipium."(Lib. Colon, pp. 229, 256.) It is noticed in theTabula, which places it 13 M. P. from Alba; but itwas not situated on the Via Valeria, and must havecommunicated with that high-road by a branchfrom Cerfennia, (Tab. Pent.) Marruvium con­tinued through the middle ages to be the see of thebishop of the Marsi; and it was not till 1580 thatthe see was removed to the neighbouring town ofPeseina. The site is now known by the name of& Benedetto, from a convent erected on the spot.Considerable ruins of the ancient city still remain,including portions of its walls; the remains of anamphitheatre, &c, and numerous inscriptions, aswell as statues, have been discovered on the site.These ruins are situated close to the margin of thelake, about two miles below Pescina. (Holsten. adChiver. p. 151 ; Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 180—186;Kramer, Fuciner See, p. 55; Hoare's Class. Tow, T4