OCR Output THE HIST OH* fhe levy was made by the dictator, yet as the foldiers_had fworn obedience to the confuls, they were ftillY.R. 16o. bound by that oath, under the pretext of hoftilities£. C. 491. being renewed by the ^quans, they ordered the le­gions to be led out of the city: which ftep fervedonly to haften the breaking out of the fedition. It isfaid, that the plebeians, at firft, entertained thoughtsof putting the confuls to death, in order that theymight be thereby difcharged from the oath; but be­ing afterwards informed, that no religious obligationcould be diffolved by an adt of wickednefs, by theadvice of a perfon called Sicinus., they retired, with­out waiting for orders from the confuls, to the facredmount, beyond the river Anio, about three milesfrom the city. This account is more generally cre­dited, than that given by Pifo, who fays, the fe»ceflion was made to the Aventine. In this place*without any commander, .having fortified their campwith a rampart and trench, they remained quiet forfeveral days, taking nothing from any body but necef-fary fubfiftence, neither receiving nor giving offence.Great was the confirmation in the city; all was fear­ful fufpenfe and mutual apprehenfion: the plebei­ans, who were left behind by their brethren, dreadedthe violence of the patricians; the patricians dread­ed the plebeians who ftaid in the city, not knowingwhether they ought to wifh for their ftay, or for theirdeparture: but " how long could it be fuppofed"that the multitude which had leceded, would re-"main inactive? And what would be the confe-"quence, if, in the mean time, a foreign war mould'' break out? No glimpfe of hope could they fee"left, except in concord between the citizens,'c which muft be re-eftablifhed in the ftate on any'' terms, whether fair or unfair." They determined,therefore, to fend, as ambaffador to the plebeians,Menenius Agrippa, a man of eloquence, and ac­ceptable to the commons, becaufe he had been ori­ginally one of their body. He, being admitted into the