OCR Output SILVER PAGEANTS. 33 which is now imitated even by the small towns. C. Antoniusexhibited games with a scene of silver.s L. Murana, and theEmperor Caius brought into the Circus a pageant, in which therewere 124,000 lbs. weight of silver. Claudius, his successor, whenhe triumphed over Britain, among the crowns which he exhibitedon that occasion, had one of 7>000 lbs. weight, which was pre­sented to him by the people of the Hither Spain, and another of900 lbs. by Gallia Comata, as appears by the inscription. Hissuccessor Nero, in order to shew his wealth to Tiridates, kingof Armenia, in one day covered the whole of Pompey's theatrewith gold. But what was this in comparison with his goldenhouse, which, as it were, surrounded the whole city! 17. AT WHAT PERIOD THERE WAS THE GREATEST QUANTITY OFGOLD AND SILVER IN THE TREASURY OF THE ROMAN PEOPLE. In the consulship of Sex. Julius and L. Aurelius, seven yearsbefore the third Punic war, there was in the Roman treasury16,810 lbs.6 weight of gold, 22,070 of silver, and of coined money6,285,400 lbs. In the consulship of Sex. Julius, and L. Marcius,that is at the commencement of the Social war, there wasl,620,820 lbs.weight of gold. C. Cassar, at his entrance into the city in hisCivil war, took out of the treasury 25,000 ingots of gold, 35,000ingots of silver, and of coined money 430,000 sesterces; nor wasthere any period in which the republic was more wealthy. iEmiliusPaulus, after he had conquered King Perseus, out of the Mace­donian booty which he had obtained, brought into the treasury2,000,300 sesterces, and from this time the Romans ceased topay taxes. 5 " Scena argentea;" the scena in the Roman theatre appears not tohave been simply a painting, as in modern times, but, at least in many cases,a kind of model of the place or object intended to be represented. The termis frequently employed by Vitruvius, in his description of the Roman theatres,v. 6, 7, 8. In one passage it would appear to be used for the stage, or forthat part of it where the actors stood; "quod omnes artifices in scena" (oraccording to some MSS. scenam) "dant operam;" cap. vi. Newtontranslates it, " for all the performers act on the scene (or stage);" p. 105. 6 In all the large sums that are mentioned, there is so much variation inthe MSS., and so much apparent irregularity in the mode of notation, thatI confess, myself, unable to attain any certainty respecting them: I have,in almost all cases, followed the estimates of Harduin. D