OCR Output CHAP. LI. 401 Of Aleppo To achieve what yet remained of the Syriantioc*n war, ^6 caliph had formed two separate armies;A.D.638. a chosen detachment, under Amrou and Yezid,was left in the camp of Palestine; while the larger di­vision, under the standard of Abu Obeidah and Caled,marched away to the north against Antioch and Aleppo.The latter of these, the Beraa of the Greeks, was not yetillustrious as the capital of a province or a kingdom;and the inhabitants, by anticipating their submission,and pleading their poverty, obtained a moderate com­position for their lives and religion. But the castle ofAleppo,q distinct from the city, stood erect on a loftyartificial mound: the sides were sharpened to a preci­pice, and faced with free stone; and the breadth of theditch might be filled with water from the neighbouringsprings. After the loss of three thousand men, the gar­rison was still equal to the defence; and Youkinna, theirvaliant and hereditary chief, had murdered his brother,a holy monk, for daring to pronounce the name of peace.In a siege of four or five months, the hardest of theSyrian war, great numbers of the Saracens were killedand wounded: their removal to the distance of a milecould not seduce the vigilance of Youkinna: nor couldthe Christians be terrified by the execution of three hun­dred captives, whom they beheaded before the castlewall. The silence, and at length the complaints, ofAbu Obeidah informed the caliph, that their hope andpatience were consumed at the foot of this impregnablefortress. I am variously affected (replied Omar) by thedifference of your success: but I charge you by no meansto raise the siege of the castle. Your retreat would dimi­nish the reputation of our arms, and encourage the infi- 1 The Persian historian of Timor (torn. 3. lib. 5. c. 21. p. 300.) describes thecastle of Aleppo, as founded on a rock one hundred cubite in height; a proof, sayithe French translator, that he had never visited the place. It is now in the midstof the city, of no strength, with a single gate; the circuit is about five or six hun­dred paces, and the ditch half full of stagnant water. (Voyages de Tavernier.torn. 1. p. 149. Pocock, vol. 1. part. 1. p. 150.) The fortresses of the east ancontemptible to a European eye. VOL. vi. 2 n