OCR Output CHAP. LII. 523 sidered as the second visible cause of the decline and fallof the caliphs.' Revolt of third and most obvious cause was the the pro- weight and magnitude of the empire itself. TheA.D.^OO caliph Almamon might proudly assert, that it waseasier for him to rule the east and the west, thanto manage a chess board of two feet square;* yet I sus­pect, that in both those games he was guilty of manyfatal mistakes; and I perceive, that in the distant pro­vinces the authority of the first and most powerful of theAbbassides was already impaired. The analogy of des­potism invests the representative with the full majesty ofthe prince; the division and balance of powers mightrelax the habits of obedience, might encourage the pas­sive subject to inquire into the origin and administrationof civil government. He who is born in the purple isseldom worthy to reign; but the elevation of a privateman, of a peasant perhaps, or a slave, affords a strongpresumption of his courage and capacity. The viceroyof a remote kingdom aspires to secure the property andinheritance of his precarious trust; the nations must re­joice in the presence of their sovereign; and the commandof armies and treasures are at once the object and the in­strument of his ambition. A change was scarcely visibleas long as the lieutenants of the caliph were content withtheir vicarious title; while they solicited for themselvesor their sons a renewal of the imperial grant, and stillmaintained on the coin, and in the public prayers, thename and prerogative of the commander of the faithful.But in the long and hereditary exercise of power, theyassumed the pride and attributes of royalty; the alter­native of peace or war, of reward or punishment, de­pended solely on their will; and the revenues of the go­ 1 For the sect of the Caxmathians, consult Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 219. 224.229. 231. 2S8. 241. 243.) Abulpharagius, (Dynast p. 179—182.) Abulfeda, (Annal.Moslem, p. 218, 219, &c. 245. 265. 274.) and d'Herbelot. (Bibliotheque Orientale,p. 256 — 258. 635.) I find some inconsistencies of theology and chronology, whichit would not be easy nor of much importance to reconcile. k Hyde, Syntagma Dissertat. torn. 2. p. 57. in Hist. Shahiludii.