OCR Output 236 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. At the head of the Roman infantry, he posted himself inthe centre. He then ordered them to observe the signal,that they might keep time to a moment in making theattack, or in retiring, if a retreat should be sounded.The cavalry of each were posted in the rear of their re­spective battalions. In this disposition he invested theircamp in three different places, and attacking it withspirit on all sides, drove the Volsci, who could not standthe charge, from their lines. Then getting immediatelyover their fortifications, where fear had crowded themtogether and cooped them np in a cjorner, he drove themfrom their camp. • As they fled in the greatest disorder,the cavalry, unable to cross the ditch, and upon that ac­count, only spectators of the action, having them now inthe open plain,'came in for their share of the glory bymaking dreadful havork of them, while they fled in theutmost fright. Many were cut to pieces in the camp,and majiy in their flight without the lines. The bootywas the more considerable, because the enemy hadenough to do, if they carried their arms with them, and yh:id not the woods covered their flight, not a man of:them would have escaped. CHAP. XXIII. The Mqui beat at Tusculum. D'URING these successes at Antiom, (he /Equi, bav­ing detached the flower of their youth before them, sur­prised the citadel of Tusculum in the night; and encamp­ed the rest of their army in the neighbourhood, to in­tercept the enemy's forces. This intelligence coming byexpress to Rome, and transmitted thence to the camp atAntium, affected the Romans as sensibly, as if theyhad been told, that the capitol was in the hands of theenemy. The obligations they lay under to the Tusculans,in a similar disaster, were too gratefully remembered,not to command assistance in return. Wherefore, FabiOshaving conveyed the booty from the camp to Antiumwhere he left a'small garrison, neglecting every thingelse, marched with all expedition to Tusculum, allowinghis soldiers to encumber themselves- with nothing but