OCR Output DECLINE AND KALI* [CHAP. XLIVI dox or innovations. The freedom of Labeo was en­slaved, however, by the rigour of his own conclusions, andhe decided according to the letter of the law, the samequestions which his indulgent competitor resolved witha latitude of equity more suitable to the common senseand feelings of mankind. If a fair exchange had beensubstituted to the payment of money, Capito still consi­dered the transaction as a legal sale and he consultednature for the age of puberty, without confining his defi­nition to the precise period of twelve or fourteen years.1This opposition of sentiments was propagated in thewritings and lessons of the two founders; the schoolsof Capito and Labeo maintained their inveterate conflictfrom the age of Augustus to that of Hadrian ;u and thetwo sects derived their appellations from Sabinus andProculus, their most celebrated teachers. The namesof Cassians and Pegasians were likewise applied to thesame parties; but, by a strange reverse, the popularcause was in the hands of Pegasus," a timid slave of Do-mitian, while the favourite of the Caesars was represent­ed by Cassius/ who gloried in his descent from the pa­triot assassin. By the perpetual edict, the controversiesof the sects were in a great measure determined. Forthat important work, the emperor Hadrian preferred thechief of the Sabinians; the friends of monarchy prevailed; but the moderation of Salvius Julian insensibly re- • Justinian (Institul. lib. 3. tit. 23. and Theophil. Vers. Grace, p. 677, 68a) bucommemorated this weighty dispute, and the verses of Homer that were alleged oneither side as legal authorities. It was decided by Paul, (leg. 33. ad Edict, in Pan­dect, lib. 18. tit. 1. leg. 1.) since, in a simple exchange, the buyer could not be discri­minated from the seller. ! This controversy was likewise given for the Proculians, to supersede the inde­cency of a search, and to comply with the aphorism of Hippocrates, who was at­tached to the septenary number of two weeks of years, or seven hundred of days,(lnstitot. lib. 1. tit. 22.) Plutarch and the stoics, (de Placit. Philosoph. lib. 5- c.24.) assign a more natural reason. Fourteen 3 ears is the age—wt(t m i oTrejjuaTixccxpiw-rai opfoc. See the vestigia of the sects in Mascot), c. 9. p. 145—276. "The series and conclusion of the sects are described by Mascou, (c. 2—7. p,24—120.) and it would be almost ridiculous to praise his equal justice to these obso­lete sects. 31 At the first summons he flies to the turbot council; yet Juvenal (Sat. 4. 75—81.)styles the prefect or bailiff of Rome sanctissimns legum interpres. From his science,says the old scholiast, he was called, not a man, but a book. He derived the singu­lar name of Pegasus from the galley which his father commanded. y Tacit. Annal. 17. 7. Sueton. in Neronc, c. 37.