OCR Output 460 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. wing, where Demetrius happened to be, wasbeaten: and the rest ran away. Demetriusindeed fought courageously, and slew greatnumbers of the enemy: but as he was in pur­suit of the rest, his horse carried him intoa deep bog, where it was hard to get out.And there it happened, that upon his horse'sfalling down, he could not escape beingkilled. For when his enemies saw whathad befallen him, they returned back, en­compassed him round, and all threw theirdarts at him. He being now on foot, foughtbravely: but at length received so manywounds, that he was not able to bear up anylonger, but fell.* And this is the end thatDemetrius came to, when he had reignedfeleven years. CHAP. III. OF THE FRIENDSHIP THAT SUBSISTED BETWEEN ONIAS ANDPTOLEMY PHILOMETOR J AND OF THE TEMPLE WHICHONIAS BUILT IN EGYPT, LIKE TO THAT AT JERUSALEM. rilHE son of Qnias, the high-priest, who I was of the same name with his father,and who fled to Ptolemy Philometor, livednow at Alexandria; as we have Jsaid al­ready. When this Onias saw that Judeawas oppressed by the Macedonians, and theirkings; out of desire to purchase to himselfa memorial and eternal fame, he resolved tosend to king Ptolemy and queen Cleopatra,to ask leave of them that he might build atemple in Egypt, like to that at Jerusalem:and might ordain Levites and priests out oftheir own stock. The chief reason why hewas desirous so to do, was that he relied upon the prophet Isaiah, who lived aboutsix hundred years before, and foretold thatthere certainly was to be a temple built toAlmighty God in Egypt, by a man that was aJew. Accordingly Onias was elevated withthis prediction: and wrote the followingepistle to Ptolemy and Cleopatra:— "Having done many and great things foryou in the affairs of the war, by the assistanceof God; and that in Coelesyria and Phoenicia:I came at length with the Jews to Leontopo-lis, and to other places of your nation. WhereI found that the greatest part of your peoplehad temples in an improper manner; and thaton this account they bare ill will one againstanother: which happens to the Egyptians,by reason of the multitude of the temples,and the difference of opinions about divineworship. Now I found a very fit place in acastle that hath its name from the countryDiana; this place is full of materials of seve­ral sorts, and replenished with sacred ani­mals. I desire therefore that you will grantme leave to purge this holy place: which be­longs to no master, and is fallen down; andto build there a temple to Almighty God,after the pattern of that in Jerusalem, andof the same dimensions: that may be for thebenefit of thyself, and thy wife, and children:that those Jews which dwell in Egypt mayhave a place whither they may come andmeet together in mutual harmony one withanother, and be subservient to thy advan­tages. For the prophet Isaiah foretold thatjjthere should be an altar in Egypt to theLord God.§ And many such things did heprophesy relating to that place." * 1 Mace. x. 50. t Since the rest of the historians now extant give thisDemetrius 13 years; and Josephus only 11 years; DeanPrideaux does not amiss in ascribing to him the meannumber 12. t Book XII. chap. 9. II Isaiah xix. 19. § It seems to me, contrary to the opinion of Josephus,and of the moderns, both Jews and Christians, that thisprophecy of Isaiah xix. 10, &c. "In that day there shallbe an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt,"&c. directly foretold the building of the temple of Oniasin Egypt, and was a sufficient warrant to the Jews forbuilding it, and for worshipping the God of Israel therein..See Authentic Records, part II. page 755. God indeedseems to have better accepted of the sacrifices and prayershere offered him, than of those at Jerusalem. And trulythe marks of Jewish corruption or interpolation in this<ext in order to discourage their people from approving of the worship of God here, are very strong; and highlydeserve our consideration and correction. The fore­going verse in Isaiah runs thus, in our common copies':"In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speakthe language of Canaan [the Hebrew language; shall befull of Jews whose sacred books were in Hebrew;] andswear to the Lord of Hosts. One [or the first] shall becalled the city of Destruction," Isa. xx. 18. A strangename, City of Destruction! upon so joyful an occasion!and a name never heard of in the land of Egypt, or per­haps any other nation! The old reading was evidently,the City of the Sun, or Heliopolis; and Onkelos in effect,and Symmachus, with the Arabic version, entirely con­fess that to be the true reading. The Septuagint also,though they have the text disguised in the commoncopies, and call it Asedek, the City of Righteousness;yet in two or three other copies the Hpbrew word itselffor the sun, Achares or Thares, is preserved. And sinceOnias insists with the king and queen, that Isaiah's pro-