OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. martial train of one thousand nobles, and five thousandGothic soldiers, who signalized theirvalour in the Moor­ish wars. Their merit was overrated by themselves, andperhaps neglected by the Vandals: they viewed thecountry with envy, and the conquerors with disdain ; buttheir real or fictitious conspiracy was prevented by amassacre; the Goths were oppressed, and the captivityof Amalafrida was soon followed by her secret and sus­picious death. The eloquent pen of Cassiodorius wasemployed to reproach the Vandal court with the cruelviolation of every social and public duty; but the ven­geance which he threatened, in the name of his sovereign,might be derided with impunity, as long as Africa wasprotected by the sea, and the Goths were destitute of anavy. In the blind impotence of grief and indignation,they joyfully saluted the approach of the Romans, en­tertained the fleet of Belisarius in the ports of Sicily,and were speedily delighted or alarmed by the surprisingintelligence, that their revenge was executed beyond themeasure of their hopes, or perhaps of their wishes. Totheir friendship the emperor was indebted for the king­dom of Africa, and the Goths might reasonably think,that they were entitled to resume the possession of a bar­ren rock, so recently separated as a nuptial gift from theisland of Sicily. They were soon undeceived by thehaughty mandate of Belisarius, which excited their tardyand unavailing repentance. "The city and promontoryof Lilyba?um (said the Roman general), belonged to theVandals, and I claim them by the right of conquest.Your submission may deserve the favour of the emperor;your obstinacy will provoke his displeasure, and mustkindle a war, that can terminate only in your utter ruinIf you compel us to take up arms, we shall contend, notto regain the possession of a single city, but to depriveyou of all the provinces which you unjustly withholdfrom their lawful sovereign." A nation of two hundredthousand soldiers might have smiled at the vain menace