OCR Output 78 ROMAN EMPIRE. and John,' laboured in the conversion of heretics,with arms and arguments more worthy of their evange-Euiogius, lical profession. The theological knowledge ofA.D.580. Eulogius was displayed in many a volume, whichmagnified the errors of Eutyches and Severus, and at­tempted to reconcile the ambiguous language of St.Cyril with the orthodox creed of pope Leo and theJohn, fathers of Chalcedon. The bounteous alms ofA. D. 609. j0lfn the eleemosynary were dictated by super­stition, or benevolence, or policy. Seven thousandfive hundred poor were maintained at his expense; onhis accession, he found eight thousand pounds of goldin the treasury of the church; he collected ten thousandfrom the liberality of the faithful; yet the primate couldboast in his testament, that he left behind him no morethan the third part of the smallest of the silver coins.The churches of Alexandria were delivered to the Ca­tholics, the religion of the Monophysites was proscribedin Egypt, and a law was revived which excluded thenatives from the honours and emoluments of the state.Theirse a- ^ more important conquest still remained, ofrationand the patriarch, the oracle and leader of the Egyp-BCay' tian church. Theodosius had resisted the threatsand promises of Justinian with the spirit of an apostleor an enthusiast. Such (replied the patriarch), were theoffers of the tempter when he shewed the kingdoms ofthe earth. But my soul is far dearer to me than lifeor dominion. The churches are in the hands of a princewho can kill the body; but my conscience is my own; andin exile, poverty, or chains, I will steadfastly adhere tothe faith of my holy predecessors, Athanasius, Cyril, andDioscorus. Anathema to the tome of Leo and the synodof Chalcedon; Anathema to all who embrace their creed! 1 See the life of John the eleemosynary by his contemporary Leontius, bishop ofNeapolis in Cyprus, whose Greek text, either lost or hidden, is reflected in theLatin version of Baronius, (A. D. 619. no. 9. A. D. 629. no. 8.) Pagi, (Critica,torn. 2. p. 763.) and Fabricius, (lib. 5. c. 11. torn. 7. p. 454.) have made somecritical observations.