OCR Output A. D. 16.] CI OF TACITUS. the Visurgis, found by a deserter, that Arminius hadalready fixed upon the spot for a general action, andbeing reinforced by other nations, then actually as­sembled in a forest sacred to Hercules, was deter­mined in the dea&of night to storm the Roman camp.This intelligence was thought worthy of credit. Thefires of the enemy gleamed at a distance; the scouts,who advanced to reconnoitre their posts, heard theneighing of horses, and the bustle of a prodigious butundisciplined multitude. In this important moment,on the eve of a decisive battle, the Roman generalthought it a point of moment to explore the sentimentsand inclinations of his men. How to accomplish this,with a degree of certainty, was a difficult point. " The" tribunes and centurions studied more to bring in" agreeable reports, than to relate the truth. The" freedmen still retained an original leaven of servili-" ty, and friends were prone to flattery. In an assem-" bly of the soldiers, a few forward spirits took the" lead, and the whole herd was ready to follow. To" sound the real sentiments of the army, the soldier" must be taken in his unguarded moments, removed" from the eye of his officer, at table with his com-" rades, when, with frank simplicity, he speaks his" mind, and tells his hopes and fears without reserve." XIII. As soon as night came on, the prince wentforth, through the augural gate, covered with the skinof a wild beast. A single attendant followed him. Hepursued his way through devious paths, unknown tothe sentinels, stopping frequently near the tents, andlistening to his own fame. The nobility of his descentwas the topic with some; others praised the dignityof his person: the greater part talked of his patience,his courage, and that happy temperament, which,upon all occasions, severe or lively, still preserved thedignity of his character. To such a commander, theplace to show their gratitude was the field of battle;there the barbarians ought to suffer for their perfidy;arid there the violator of public treaties should bedoomed a sacrifice to the glory of Germanicus.Amidst these discourses, a soldier from the adversecamp, who could speak the Roman language, rode