OCR Output CHAP. Lit. 471 productive of the invention or familiar use of our presentnumerals, the Arabic or Indian ciphers, as they are com­monly styled, a regulation of office has promoted themost important discoveries of arithmetic, algebra, andthe mathematical sciences.k Second Whilst the caliph Waled sat idle on the thronen- of Damascus, while his lieutenants achieved theconquest of Transoxiana and Spain, a third army71&—T1B. of Saracens overspread the provinces of AsiaMinor, and approached the borders of the Byzantinecapital. But the attempt and disgrace of the secondsiege was reserved for his brother Soliman, whose am­bition appears to have been quickened by a more activeand martial spirit. In the revolutions of the Greek em­pire, after the tyrant Justinian had been punished andavenged, a humble secretary, Anastasius or Artemius,was promoted by chance or merit to the vacant purple.He was alarmed by the sound of war; and his ambas­sador returned from Damascus with the tremendousnews, that the Saracens were preparing an armament bysea and land, such as would transcend the experienceof the past, or the belief of the present age. The pre­cautions of Anastasius were not unworthy of his stationor of the impending danger. He issued a peremptorymandate, that all persons who were not provided withthe means of subsistence for a three years' siege, shouldevacuate the city; the public granaries and arsenalswere abundantly replenished; the walls were restoredand strengthened; and the engines for Casting stones, ordarts, or fire, were stationed along the ramparts', or inthe brigantines of war, of which an additional numberwas hastily constructed. To prevent is safer, as well asmore honourable, than to repel an attack; and a design k According to a new, though probable notion, maintained by M. de Villoison,(Aftecdota Grieca, torn. 2. p. 152—157.) our ciphers a/e not of Indian or Arabicinvention. They were used by the Greek and Latin arithmeticians long before theage of Boethins. After the extinction of science in the west, they were adoptedby the Arabic versions from the original MSS. and restored to the Latins about theeleventh century.