OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4Q5 cities and palaces of Assyria were open for the first timeto the Romans. By a just gradation of magnificentscenes, they penetrated to the royal seat of Dastagerd,and though much of the treasure had been removed, andmuch had been expended, the remaining wealth appearsto have exceeded their hopes, and even to have satiatedtheir avarice* Whatever could not be easily transported,they consumed with fire, that Chosroes might feel theanguish of those wounds, which he had so often inflict-"ed on the provinces of the empire: and justice mightallow the excuse, if the desolation had been confined tothe works of regal luxury, if national hatred, military li­cence, and religious zeal, had not wasted with equal ragethe habitations and the temples of the guiltless subject.The recovery of three hundred Roman standards, andthe deliverance of the numerous captives of Edessa andAlexandria, reflect a purer glory on the arms of Hera-clius. From the palace of Dastagerd, he pursued hismarch within a few miles of Modain or Ctesiphon, tillhe was stopped on the banks of the Arba, by the diffi­culty of the passage, the rigour of the season, and per­haps the fame of an impregnable capital. The return ofthe emperor is marked by the modern name of the city ofSherhzour; he fortunately passed mount Zara, before thesnow, which fell incessantly thirty-four days, and the citi­zens of Gandzaca, or Tauris, were compelled to entertainhis soldiers and their horses with an hospitable reception.™ When the ambition of Chosroes was reduced to the Plight ofdefence of his hereditary kingdom, the love of glory, or a. D™6«f,even the sense of shame, should have urged him to meet Dec-29-his rival in the field. In the battle of Nineveh, his cou­rage might have taught the Persians to vanquish, or hemight have fallen with honour by the lance of a Romanemperor. The successor of Cyrus chose rather, at a se­cure distance, to expect the event, to assemble the relicsof the defeat, and to retire by measured steps before the ■ In descrihing this last expedition of Heraclius, the facts, the places, and th«dates, of Theophanes, (p. 265—271.) are so accurate and autheniio that he musthave followed the original letters of the emperor, of which the Paschal Chroniclehas preserved (p. 398—105.) a very carious specimen. . ,