OCR Output 324 LIVY. Campanian people, who were either cut off or driveninto banishment; the mutilated carcass of a city,without senate, without commons, without magis­trates; a sort of prodigy, the leaving which to be in­habited in this manner showed more cruelty than if ithad been rased to the ground. If foreigners^ who areseparated from us to a greater distance by their lan­guage, manners, and laws, than by the length of seaand land, are allowed to get footing here, it is madnessto hope that any thing will continue in its presentstate. Does your liberty appear to be in any degreeof danger from the government of Philip, who at atime when he was justly incensed, demanded nothingmore of you than peace; and at present requires nomore than the observance of the peace which heagreed to? Accustom foreign legions to these coun­tries, and receive the yoke; too late and in vain willyou look for an alliance with Philip, when you willhave become a property of the Romans. Triflingcauses occasionally unite and disunite the JEtolians,Acarnanians, and Macedonians, men speaking thesame language. With foreigners, with barbarians, allGreeks have, and ever will have, eternal war; be­cause they are enemies by nature, which is always thesame, and not from causes which change with thetimes. I conclude my discourse with the same argu­ment with which I began. Three years since, thesame persons, assembled in this same place, deter­mined on peace with the same Philip, contrary to theinclinations of the same Romans, who now wish thatthe peace should be broken, after it has been ad­justed and ratified. In the subject of your delibera­tion fortune has made no change; why you shouldmake any, I do not see.' 30. Next, after the Macedonians, with the consentiind at the desire of the Romans, the Athenians wereintroduced; who, having suffered grievously, couldwith the greater justice inveigh against the cruelty andinhumanity of the king. They represented in a de­plorable light the miserable devastation and ruin of