OCR Output B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423. a second time into Lyncus against Arribaeus. They com­manded their separate bodies; one, the forces of the Mace­donians subject to himself, and the heavy-armed Grecianswho dwelled amongst them: the other, the remainder of hisown Peloponnesians reinforced by Chalcideans and Acanthi-ans, and quotas from other cities such as they were able tofurnish. The number of heavy-armed Grecians computedtogether amounted to about three thousand: The cavalry thatattended, both of Macedonians and Chalcideans, was uponthe whole little less than a thousand: And the remainingcrowd of Barbarians was great. Breaking thus into the territory of Arribaeus, and find­ing the Lyncestians already in the field to oppose them,they also sat down and faced them. The infantry on eachside were posted on an eminence, and a plain lay betweenthem. This yielding room for the excursions of the horse,the cavalry of both began a skirmish first. But then Bra-sidas and Perdiccas, so soon as the Lyncestian heavy-armedwere moving first from the eminence to the aid of their ca­valry and were ready to engage, marched also down intothe plain to oppose them, where they charged and routedthe Lyncestians. A large number of the latter M ere slain,the rest fled for preservation to the eminences, and therestood quiet. The victors after this, having erected a trophy, continuedfor two or three days in the same post, waiting for the Illy-rians who were coming up to join Perdiccas for a stipulatedpay. And then Perdiccas intended to advance fartheragainst the villages of Arribaeus, and sit no longer inactive.Mende however was still uppermost in the care of Bra-sidas:—That place must be lost, should the Athenians ar­rive before it in the interval:—The Illyrians besides were notyet come up. He relished not the project, and was moreinclined to go back. This engendered some disputes be­tween them, in the midst of which the news was broughtthat the Illyrians had deserted Perdiccas, and joined them­