OCR Output 94 [book hi. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. laborious service; for in this position it ap­pears in the most agreeable manner to thespectators; but when he is obliged to assistat offering sacrifices, and to do the appointedservice, that he may not be hindered in hisoperations by its motion, he throws it to theleft, and bears it on his shoulder. Moses callsthis belt abaneth; but we have learned, fromthe Babylonians, to call it emia. This vest­ment has no loose or hollow parts any wherein it, but only a narrow aperture about theneck: and it is tied with certain strings hang­ing down from the edge over the breast, andover the back; and is fastened above eachshoulder. It is called massabazanes. Upon his head he wears a cap, not broughtto a conic form, nor including the entire head;but still including more than the half of it.It is named masnaemphthes, or a mitre, butits make is such that it seems to be a crown.It is made of thick swaths, but the contextureis of linen, and it i3 doubled round manytimes, and sewed together; besides which, apiece of fine linen covers the whole cap,from the upper part, and reaches down tothe forehead, and hides the seams of theswaths, which would otherwise appear in­decently: this adheres closely upon the solidpart of the head, that it may not fall off du­ring the sacred service about the sacrifices. Such was the habit of the generality of thepriests. The high-priest is adorned with the samegarments already described; but over thesehe puts on a vestment of a blue colour; thisalso is a long robe, reaching to his feet: inour language it is called meeir, and is tiedround with a girdle, embroidered with thesame colours and flowers as the former, in­terwoven with a mixture of gold: to the bot­tom are hung fringes, in colour like pome­granates, with golden* bells,f by a curiousand beautiful contrivance; so that betweentwo bells hangs a pomegranate, and betweentwo pomegranates a bell. Now this vesturewas not composed of two pieces, nor was itsewed together upon the shoulders and thesides, but it was one long vestment, so wovenas to have an aperture for the neck: not anoblique one, but parted all along the breast,and the back; a border also was sewed to it,lest the aperture should look too indecently;it was also parted where the hands were tocome out. Besides these, the high-priest put on a thirdgarment, called the epnod, which resemblesthe epomis of the Greeks. It was woven tothe depth of a cubit, of several colours, withgold intermixed, and embroidered: but it leftthe middle of the breast uncovered; it was X * The use of these golden bells, at the bottom of thehigh-priest's long garment, seems to have been this; thatby shaking his garment at the time of his offering incensein the temple, on the great day of expiation, or at otherproper periods of his sacred ministrations on the greatfestivals, the people might have notice of it, and mieht fallto their own prayers at the time of incense, or other pro­per periods; and so the whole congregation might at onceoffer those common prayers jointly with the high-priest tothe Almighty. See Luc. i. 10. Nor probably is thefather of Sirach to be otherwise understood, when he saysof Aaron, the first high-priest, Ecclus. xlv. 9, God com­passed Aaron with pomegranates, and with many goldenbells round about; that as he went there might be a sound,and a noise made, that might be heard in the temple, for amemorial to the children of his people. t The bell seems to have been a sacred utensil of veryancient use in Asia. Golden bells formed a part of theornaments of the pontifical robe of the Jewish high-priest,with which he invested himself upon those grand andpeculiar festivals, when he entered into the sanctuary.That robe was very magnificent; it was ordained to be ofsky-blue, and the border of it, at the bottom, was adornedwith pomegranates and gold bells intermixed equally, andat equal distances. The use and intent of these bells isevident from these words: And it shall be upon Aaron tominister, and his sound shall be heard when he goeth inunto the holy place before the Lord, and when he cometh out, that he die not. The sound of the numerous bellsthat covered the hem of his garment, gave notice to theassembled people that the most awful ceremony of theirreligion had commenced. When arrayed in this garb, hebore into the sanctuary the vessel of incense; it was thesignal to prostrate themselves before the Deity, and tocommence those fervent ejaculations which were to ascendwith the column of that incense to the throne of heaven."One indispensable ceremony in the Indian Pooja is theringing of a small bell by the officiating Brahmin. Thewomen of the idol, or dancing girls of the pagoda, havelittle golden bells fastened to their feet, the soft harmonioustinkling of which vibrates in unison with the exquisitemelody of their voices." (Maurice's Indian Antiquities,vol. v. p. 137.) "The ancient kings of Persia, who, infact, united to their own persons the regal and sacerdotaloffice, were accustomed to have the fringes of their robesadorned with pomegranates and golden bells. The Ara­bian courtesans, like the Indian women, have little goldenbells fastened round their legs, neck, and elbows, to thesound of which they dance before the king. The Arabianprincesses wear golden rings on their fingers, to whichlittle bells are suspended, as well as in the flowing tressesof their hair, that their superior rank may be known, andthey themselves, in passing, receive the homage dueto their exalted station." CalmeCt Dictionary, articleBell. B.