OCR Output PELIGNI. rf Orid, that they were of Sabine descent (Ovid,fat. is. 9J.) The authority of the poet, himself asatire tf the district, U strongly confirmed by the■Mai pnosaib'lies of the case, there being littledaiat that all these upland valleys of the CentralAaanoes vara peopled by the Sabines, who, radi-atjay bom Amiternum as a centre, spread themselvesawards the S. and K. in the same manner as theytatmied towards the valley of the Tiber on the W.•ad SW. Utnce the Peligni were of kindred raceUtah mmr neighbours, the Vestini, Marrucini, andIbni, sad this circumstance, coupled with their>tii(lmal proximity, sufficiently explains the closeenaa which we find subsisting in historical timesAstawen the four nations. It is probable, indeed,Abb* fear tribes formed a kind of league orry among themselves (Liv. viii. 29), thoughmast have been somewhat lax, as we findnasally engaging in war or concludingsmelt, though more frequently all four would1m same policy. first mention of the Peligni in Roman historyat B. c 343, when we are told that thewho had been threatening war with Rome,sat their arms against the Peligni (Liv. vii. 38);law eat* do account of the causes or result of^PaV. boon after we find the Peligni, as well asaaghboore, the Marsi. on friendly terms with^^naana, so that they afforded a free passage to^Bhaai army which was proceeding throughBWaW into Campania (Liv. viii. 6); and evenrh boors the Vestini declared them-of the Samnites, tbey seem to havem the example. (Id. viii. 29.) Inver, they joined the Mai si in theirlane, and share. 1 in their defeat by41); bat a few yeHrs afterwardswere induced to sue for peace, and~ apparently on favourable terms Ini * » * • PELIGNI. 5C7 Epit. lxxii; Oros. v. 18; Veil. Pat. ii. 16- Diod T™ choic« »• Corfinium was probablydetermined bv its itm il .» - <■„.. r »u»uiy I period theyof Rome I Daring « aWetoar chief eii'i, and' Rome, andtheir zeal in b. o. 295, byarmy on its retreat from thei,and cutting to pieces 100030.) After the subjectionthe Peligni are seldomit is certain that theyregularly their contingents to"* notwithstanding their smallitin^uished position amongPelignian cohorts being on'withdistinction. (Diunys.nn. viii. It. 6; ur, xxv.is omitted by Polybiusforces of the Italian allies inMil this is probably by mereSecond Punic War they main-fidelity to Rome, though theirravaged by Hannibal; andusual quota to the Koman1 able in b. c. 205 to raisement of Scipiu, (Liv. xxii. 9,Kt the outbreak of tlie Socialnjunctiuii with their neigh-the Marsi, were among the«s against Rome; and the, Corfinium, to be the capitaltherefore the destined capitalproved successful, at oncethe nationsi. among t B. C. i „„ vuivo ui v ui innnin was probablydetermined by its strength as a fortress, as well asby its central position in regard to the northern con­federates; at a later period of the war it was aban­doned by the allies, who transferred their senate andcapital to Aesernia. (Diod. /. c) The name of thePeligni is not often mentioned during the war,though it is certain that they continued to take anactive part in it throughout, and it is probable thatthey were almost uniformly associated with theMarsi. But in b. c. 90 we are told that they sus­tained a severe defeat by Ser. Sulpicius Gallia (Liv.Eptt. Ixxiii.); and before the close of the followingyear they were receive*, to submission, together withthe Marrucini and Vestini, by Cn. Pompeius Strabo,b. c. 88. (Liv. Epit. lxxvi.) It is certain that thePeligni, as well as their neighbours, were at thistime, or very soon after, admitted to the Romanfranchise, for the sake of which they had originallyengaged in the war: they were enrolled in the Str-gian tribe, together with the Marsi and Sabines.(Cic. in Vatin. 15; Schol. Bob. atl he ) TliePeligni again figure in the history of the Civil Warbetween Caesar and Pompey, b. c. 49, when theirchief town, Corfinium, was occupied by DomittusAhenobarbus with twenty cohorts, which he hadraised for the most part among the Marsi andPeligni, and with which he at first checked the ad­vance of Caesar; but the rapid spread of disaffectionamong his own troops quickly compelled him tosurrender. (Caes. £. C. i. 15—23.) Sulmo, whichhad been also garrisoned by Domhius, yielded withoutresistance to Caesar. (/&. 17.) The Peligni, incommon with the other mountain tribes, seem tohave retained to a considerable extent their nationalcharacter and feeling, long after tbey had becomemerged in the condition of Roman citizens, and aslate as the civil war between Vespasian and Vitel-lius (a. d. 69) they are mentioned as declaringthemselves, as a people, in favour of the former.(Tac. Hist. iii. 59.) This is the last notice of themwhich occurs in history; but they are described byall the geographers as a distinct people, retainingtheir separate nationality. (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin.iii. 12. s. 17; Ptol. iii. 1. § 64.) For administrativepurposes they were included in the Fourth Region ofAugustus (Plin. /. c); and in the later division ofthis part of Italy, their territory was comprised,together with that of the Marsi, in the provincecalled Valeria. {Lib. Colon, p. 228). It now formsa part of the province of Abnazo Ulteriore. The position of the Peligni, surrounded on allsides by the loftiest ranges of the Apennines, whilethe valley of the Gizio itself is at a considerableelevation above the sea, naturally rendered the climateone of the coldest in Italy. Horace uses the ex­pression " Peligna frigora," as one almost proverbialfor extreme cold; and Ovid, who was a native ofSulmo, repeatedly alludes to the cold and wintryclimate of his native district, (Hor. Carm. iii. 19.8; Ovid, Fast iv. 81, 685, TrisL iv. 9.) On theother hand, it derived from the same cause the ad­vantage of being watered by numerous and perennialstreams, fed by the snows of the neighbouring moun­tains, where they are said to linger throughout thesummer. (Ovid, Amor. ii. 16, East. iv. 685.) Thebroad valley of the Gizio was, however, sufficientlyfertile; it produced considerable quantities of corn,and wine in abundance, though not of superiorquality, and a few sheltered spots would even admit o o 4