OCR Output aN. 1532.] 107 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. fourth signal* those on the north did so like­wise. 1 hey also used trumpets in their sa­cred ministrations, when they were bringingtheir sacrifices to the altar, as well as on thesabbaths, and on the rest of the festival days.And now it was that Moses offered that sacri­fice which was called the Passover in the wil­derness, as the first he had offered after thedeparture out of Egypt. CHAP. XIII OF MOSES'S REMOVAL FROM MOUNT SINAI TOWARDS THEBORDERS OF THE CANAANITES. A LITTLE while afterwards Moses roseup, and went from mount Sinai; and,having passed through several mansions, ofwhich we will speak anon, he came to a placecalled Hazeroth, where the multitude beganagain to be mutinous, and to blame him forthe misfortunes they had suffered in theirtravels; and that when he had persuadedthem to leave a good land, they at once hadlost that land, and instead of the happy statehe had promised them, they were still wan­dering in their present miserable condition,being already in want of water, and if themanna should happen to fail, they must thenutterly perish; yet, while they generally spakemany bitter things against the men, there wasone who exhorted them not to be unmindfulof Moses, and of what great pains he had beenat about their common safety, and not to des­pair of assistance from God. The multitude,however, became still more unruly, and moremutinous against Moses than before; here­upon Moses,f although he was so baselyabused by them, encouraged them in theirdespairing condition, and promised that hewould procure them a great quantity of fleshmeat, and that not for a few days only, but formany days; and when they could not believehim, and one of them asked, whence he couldobtain such vast plenty of what he promised?he replied, "Neither God nor I, although wehear such opprobrious words from you, willleave off our labours for you; and this shallsoon appear." As soon as he had said this, * These two signals are wanting in the Hebrew andSamaritan, but extant in the Septuagint, as in Josephus. t This circumstance clearly evinces the propriety withwhich Moses is denominated the meekest of men. Theprovocations he received would have excited resentment vol. I-—No. 9. the whole camp was filled with quails, andthey stood round about them, and gatheredthem in great numbers. However, it was notlong ere God punished the Hebrews for thatinsolence and those reproaches they had usedtowards him, for no small number of themdied; and to this day the place retains thememory of their destruction, and is namedKi broth Hattaavah, which is, the graves oflust4 CHAP. XIV. OF THE SPIES WHO WERE SENT TO SEARCH OUT THE LANDOF CANAAN, AND THE CONSEQUENCE OF THEIR REPORT. WHEN Moses had led the Hebrews toa place called Paran, which was nearthe borders of the Canaanites, and a placedifficult to be continued in, he gathered themultitude together: and standing in the midstof them, he said: "Of the two things that Goddetermined to bestow upon us, liberty, andthe possession of a happy country, the one yeare already partakers of, by the gift of God,and the other you will quickly obtain; for wenow have our abode near the borders of Ca­naan, and nothing can hinder the acquisitionof it, when we now at last are fallen upon it:I say not only no king, nor city, but neitherthe whole race of mankind, if they are allgathered together, could do it. Let us, there­fore, prepare ourselves for the work; for theCanaanites will not resign up their land to uswithout fighting, but it must be wrested fromthem by great struggles in war. Let us thensend spies, who may take a view of the good­ness of the land, and what strength it is of;but above all things, let us be of one mind,and let us honour God, who is our supremehelper and assister." When Moses had said thus, the multituderequited him with marks of respect, andchose twelve spies of the most eminent men,one out of each tribe, who, passing over allthe land of Canaan, from the borders of Egypt,came to the city Hamath and to mount Leba­non, and when they had learned the natureof the land and of its inhabitants, they re­in most men; but on him it had no other effect than toinduce him to exert himself the more for the good of thepeople. B. X Numb. xi. 34. Ee