OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 817 p. itt),MKt that building in at some little distanceha tbe areas, and certainly does not stand onti;tn grand. Toe temple of Ceres contained somefrarata works of art (1'lin. xxxv. 10. a. 36. §») specially a picture of Dionysus by Aristides,"lubMrabo mentions that lie saw (viii. p. 381),in which wu afterwards destroyed in a lire which«j the temple.I« ak» Sad a Temple or Vents mentioned atit .ran. founded by Q. Fabias Gurges, n. a 295,"7 tppnfriately oat of the money raised by finesmai oa certain matrons for incontinence. (Liv.. 31.) It stems to hare been at some distancean the Forum Boarium, Bince the censors M.™> tod C. Claud ilia contracted for the pavingf tit ned between the two places. (Id. xxix. 37.)ft aire no meana of defining it) site morenmtelj, nor can we eren tell whether it may notM Wca connected with the altar of Venus Murciatn BMstioned. Bat the Temple op Flora,»M by the aediles L. and M. Publicius, them was contracted the clivus or ascent to the |*n'ii» which bore their name, must have lain■ u> that ascent, and consequently alio to thea> » Ceres just described; since Tacitus, afterti,ii the re-dedication of the latter under Tiberius,i». ■ eodemque in loco aedem Florae (dedicavit),lao» ft Marco Pabliciis aedilibus constitatam."•» i 4>.) The Publicii applied part of the sameaw —raised by fines — with which they had■rjctad the divas, in instituting floral games in•tr of the divinity which they had here con-Mai, at we learn from the account which Ovid»mo the mouth of the goddess herself (Fatt. 'sent an all the temples that we find mentionedha quarter; oat before we leave it there are onen pints which deserve to be noticed. The CaveBnctt was reputed to have been near the Clivuseons. Salinas mentions it aa being at theaw. atar the Porta Trigeminy (i- 8); a situa-•hirh agues with the description in Virgil of■wsuag of Aeneas and Erander at the Araass of Hercules, from which spot Evander> au the care on the Avestine t.l.n. viii. 190, - Jam prima ro hanc adspice » i'troDKTSt Portae mentioned in the .Vo­le this Begion we have already spoken TPart TX The Cajcliajc Hill. 'CntEca presents but few ronains of ancient*f- and as the notices of it in the classicsM«iss scanty its topography is consequently■i a considerable obscurity. According to(v JO) Tullus Hoatilius fixed his residencehoc ether accounts represent him as re-tM tat Veba. (Cic. Rrp. ii. 31.) We find alara Du.wae mentioned on the Caeliolus —ansawl (art <i the eastern ridge(o!e Bar. Rttp. 15);•« the Dca Caksa " in Caelio monte" (Ma-1111); and a little Temple of Minerva'* sussied on the declivity of the hill:—*fca ex alto qua Mons descendit in aequum,Re obi Don plana est, bed prope plana via est,wTa ucrt videaa Captae delubra Minenrae." (Or. Fait. iii. 837, seq.) Hence it was probably the same ancient sanctuary,called "Minervium" in the sacred books of theArgives, which lay on the northern declivity of theCaelian towards the Tabernola (" Circa Minerviumqua e Caelio monte iter in Tabernola est," Varr.L. L. v. § 47), and probably near the modern streetVia delta Navicella. The most considerable building known on theCaelian in later times was the Temple of DivusClaudius, begun by Agrippina, destroyed by Nero,and restored by Vespasian. (Suet. Vetp. 9; Aur.Vict. Caet. 9.) The determination of its site de­pends on the question how far Nero conducted theAqua Claudia along the Caelius, since we learn fromFrontinus that the arches of that aqueduct termi­nated at the temple in question. (Front. Aq. 20,76.) These Arcus Neroniani (also called Caeli-montani, Gruter, Jnscr. clxxxvii. 3) extend alongthe ridge of the narrow bill, supposed to be theCaeliolus, from the Porta Maggiore- to the SantaScala opposite the Lateran, where they are inter­rupted by the piazza and buildings belonging to thatbasilica. They recommence, however, on the otherside in the Via di S. Stefano Roiondo, and proceedwith a small gap as far as that church. Thereare further traces of them on the \V. side of thearch of Dolabella; and the opinion of Canina seemsprobable enough, that they terminated near thegarden of the convent of &S. Giovanni e Paolo,and that the remains of a huge substruction at thisspot belonged to the temple of Claudius. (Indicaz.p. 73, seq.) Canina is further of opinion that theAqua Claudia was distributed a little beyond thisspot, and that one of the uses to which it wasapplied by Nero was to replenish bis lake, whichoccupied the site of the Flavian amphitheatre.Others, however, are of opinion that the aqueductdid not proceed beyond the church of 6". StefanoJiotondo, and therefore that the temple of *Claudiusstood near that spot, or that the church may evenhave been built on its foundations. But there areno sufficient grounds for arriving at any satisfactoryconclusion on these points, and altogether the viewof Canina is perhaps the more probable one. The Alien of Dolabella, just alluded to, ap­pears from the inscription on it to have been erectedin the consulship of Dolabella and Silanus, a. d. 10.Its destination has been the subject of various con­jectures. Some have imagined it to be a restora­tion of the Porta Caelimontana; but this can hardlybe the case, since, if the Servian walls had run inthis direction, half of the Caelian hill would harebeen shut out of the city. On the other hand, itsappearance excludes the notion of a triumphal arch;and it could not originally hare formed part of anaqueduct, since it was erected previously to the con­struction of the Aqua Claudia. It seems most pro­bable therefore that it was designed as an entranceto some public place; but there are appearancesthat Nero subsequently conducted his aqnedoctover it. (Canina, Indicaz. p. 77.) The road whichled up to it from the Via di S. Grtgorio seems inancient times to bare been called Clivus Scauki.It is ment ioned under that name in the Epistle* of &Gregory (vii. 13), and the Anonymus Einsicdlensiscalls it Clivus Tauri, which is probably a scribe'serror. Next to the temple of Clandius, the Notitia men­tions a Macellum Maonum, probably the maiketrecorded by Dion Cassius as founded by Nero (tJ)»ayopav rity oi^uv, to ndxtMov wvopaautvov, «a- 3 o in