OCR Output Chap. XIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 393 these prevailed with the multitude to act like madmen, andwent before them into the wilderness, as pretending that Godwould there shew them the signals of liberty. But Felixthought this procedure was to be the beginning of a revolt; sohe sent some horsemen and footmen both armed, who destroy­ed a great number of them. . 5. But there was an Egyptian false prophet that did the Jewsmore mischief than the former: for he was a cheat, and pre­tended to be a prophet also, and got together thirty thousandmen that were deluded by him; these he led round about fromthe wilderness to the mount which was called the Mount of O-lives, and was ready to break into Jerusalem by force from thatplace; and if he could but once conquer the Roman garrison,and the people, he intended to domineer over them by the assis­tance of those guards of his that were to break into the citywith him. But Felix prevented his attempt, and met him withhis Roman soldiers, while all the people assisted him in his at­tack upon them, insomuch that, when it came to a battle, theEgyptian ran away, with a few others, while the greatest partof those that were with him were either destroyed or takenalive; but the rest of the multitude were dispersed every oneto their own homes, and there concealed themselves. 6. Now, when these were quieted, it happened, as it does ina diseased body, that another part was subject to an inflammation,for a company of deceivers and robbers got together, and per­suaded the Jews to revolt, and exhorted them to assert their li­berty, inflicting death on those that continued in obedience tothe Roman government, and saying, that such as willingly choseslavery, ought lo be forced from such their desired inclinations;for they parted themselves into different bodies, and lay in waitup and down the country, and plundered the houses of the greatmen, and slew the men themselves, and set the villages on fire;a>id this till all Judea was filled with the effects of their mad­ness. And thus the flame was every day more and more blownup, till it came to a direct war. 7. There was also another disturbance at Cesarea, those Jewswho were mixed with the Syrians that lived there, raising atumult against them. The Jews pretended that the city wastheirs, and said, that he who built it was a Jew, meaning kingHerod. The Syrians confessed also, that its builder was a Jew,but they still said, however, that the city was a Grecian city;for that he who set up statues and temples in it could not designit for Jews. On which account both parties had a contest withone another; and this contest increased so much, that it cameat last to arms, and the bolder sort of them marched out to fight; VOL. Ill, 3 D for