OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 115 the strong castle of Macellum, near Caesarea. The chap.treatment which they experienced during a six years XVLconfinement was partly such as they could hopefrom a careful guardian, and partly such as theymight dread from a suspicious tyrant*. Their prisonwas an ancient palace, the residence of the kings ofCappadocia; the situation was pleasant, the buildingstately, the inclosure spacious. They pursued theirstudies, and practised their exercises, under thetuition of the most skilful masters; and the numeroushousehold appointed to attend, or rather to guard,the nephews of Constantine, was not unworthy ofthe dignity of their birth. But they could not dis­guise to themselves that they were deprived of for­tune, of freedom, and of safety; secluded from thesociety of all whom they could trust or esteem, andcondemned to pass their melancholy hours in thecompany of slaves, devoted to the commands of atyrant, who had already injured them beyond thehope of reconciliation. At length, however, theemergencies of the state compelled the emperor, orrather his eunuchs, to invest Gallus, in the twenty-fifth year of his age, with the title of Caesar, and to Gaiius de.cement this political connexion by his marriage with c^st,the princess Constantina. After a formal interview, |51in which the two princes mutually engaged theirfaith never to undertake any thing to the prejudiceof each other, they repaired without delay to theirrespective stations. Constantius continued his marchtowards the West, and Gallus fixed his residence at'Antioch, from whence, with a delegated authority,he administered the five great dioceses of the easternprasfecture. In this fortunate change, the new Caesar • The most authentic account of the education and adventures of Julian iscontained in the epistle or manifesto which he himself addressed to the senateand people of Athens. Libanius (Orat , Parentalis), on the side of the Pagans,and Socrates (1. Hi. c. 1.), on that of the Christians, had preserved several in­teresting circumstances. I 2