OCR Output Chap. XT. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWSt cy, and the high-priests were intrusted with a dominion overthe nation. And thus much may suffice to be said concerningour high-priests. CHAP XI. Concerning Florus the procurator, who necessitated the Jaw to takeup arms against the Romans. The conclusion. $ 1. "IVTOW Gessius Florus, who was sent as successor to Albi-•*•" nus by Nero, filled Judea with abundance of miseries.He was by birth of the city of Claz'omenae, and brought alongwith him his wife Cleopatra, (by whose friendship with Poppea,Nero's wife, he obtained this government), who was no way dif­ferent from him in wickedness. This Florus was so wicked, andso violent in the use of his authority, that the Jews took Albi-nus to have been [comparatively] their benefactor ; so excessiveWere the mischiefs that he brought upon them. For Albinusconcealed his wickedness, and was careful that it might not bediscovered to all men; but Gessius Florus, as though he hadbeen sent on purpose to shew his crimes to every body, made apompous ostentation of them to our nation, as never omittingany sort of violence, nor any unjust sort of punishment; for hewas not to be moved by pity, and never was satisfied with anydegree of gain that came in his way ; nor had he any more re­gard to great than to small acquisitions, but became a partnerwith the robbers themselves. For a great many fell then into thatpractice without fear, as having him for their security, and de­pending on him, that he would save them harmless in their par-,ticular robberies ; so that there were no bounds set to the nation'*miseries ; but the unhappy Jews, when they were nqt able to bearthe devastations which the robbers made among them, were allunder a necessity of leaving their own habitations, and of flyingaway, as hoping to dwell more easily any where else in the worldamong foreigners, [than in their own country]. And what needI say any more upon this head? since it was this Florus who ne­cessitated us to take up arms against the Romans, while wethought it better to be destroyed at once, than by little and little.Now this war began in the second year of the government ofFlorus, and the twelfth year of the reign of Nero. 3ut then*what actions we were forced to do, or what miseries we wereenabled to suffer, may be accurately known by such as will perusethose books which I have written about the Jewish war. 2. I shall now, therefore, make an end here of my Antiquities;after the conclusion of which events, I began to write that account'of the war ; and thess Antiquities contain what hath been deli-• ' vered