OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 381 tion of Hellenic polish and Roman wealth could secure.He was equally welcome as a pleasant companion in thearistocratic saloon and as a good comrade in the camp; hisacquaintances, high and low, found in him a sympathizingfriend and a ready helper in time of need, who gave hisgold with far more pleasure to his embarrassed comradethan to his wealthy creditor. Passionate was his homageto the wine-cup, still more passionate to women; evenin his later years he was no longer the regent, when afterthe business of the day was finished he took his place attable. A vein of irony—we might perhaps say of buffoonery—pervaded his whole nature. Even when regent he gaveorders, while conducting the public sale of the property ofthe proscribed, that a donation from the spoil should begiven to the author of a wretched panegyric which washanded to him, on condition that the writer should promisenever to sing his praises again. "When he justified beforethe burgesses the execution of Ofella, he did so by relatingto the people the fable of the countryman and the lice. Hedelighted to choose his companions among actors, and wasfond of sitting at wine not only with Quintus Roscius theRoman Talma, but also with far inferior players; indeedhe was himself not a bad singer, and even wrote farces forperformance within his own circle. Yet amidst these jovialBacchanalia he lost neither bodily nor mental vigour; hewas in the rural leisure of his last years still zealouslydevoted to the chase, and the circumstance that he broughtthe writings of Aristotle from conquered Athens to Rometestifies at least to his interest in more serious reading. Thespecific peculiarities of Roman character rather repelledhim. Sulla had nothing of the blunt hauteur which thegrandees of Rome were fond of displaying in presence of theGreeks, or of the pomposity of narrow-minded great men;on the contrary he freely indulged his humour, appeared, tothe scandal probably of many of his countrymen, in Greektowns in the Greek dress, or induced his aristocratic com­panions to drive their chariots personally at the games. Heretained still less of those half-patriotic, half-selfish hopes,which in countries of free constitution allure every youth oftalent into the political arena, and which he too like allothers probably at one time felt. In such a life as his was,oscillating between passionate intoxication and more thansober awaking, illusions are speedily dissipated. Desiring