OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1<)3 greatest part of his body was covered with hair, the chap.use of the razor was confined to his head alone; and XVILcelebrates, with visible complacency, the shaggy andpopulous * beard, which he fondly cherished, afterthe example of the philosophers of Greece. HadJulian consulted the simple dictates of reason, thefirst magistrate of the Romans would have scornedthe affectation of Diogenes, as well as that of Darius.. But the work of public reformation would have Chamber ofremained imperfect, if Julian had only corrected thejustice'abuses, without punishing the crimes, of his pre­decessor's reign. "We are now delivered," says he,in a familiar letter to one of his intimate friends,"we are now surprisingly delivered from the vora-"cious jaws of the Hydra. I do not mean to apply"that epithet to my brother Constantius. He is no"more; may the earth lie light on his head! But"his artful and cruel favourites studied to deceive"and exasperate a prince, whose natural mildness"cannot be praised without some efforts of adulation."It is not, however, my intention, that even those"men should be oppressed: they are accused, and"they shall enjoy the benefit of a fair and impartial"trial." To conduct this inquiry, Julian namedsix judges of the highest rank in the state and army;and as he wished to escape the reproach of condemn­ing his personal enemies, he fixed this extraordinarytribunal at Chalcedon, on the Asiatic side of theBosphorus; and transferred to the commissioners anabsolute power to pronounce and execute their finalsentence, without delay, and without appeal. The* ■ . . * In the Misopogon (p. 338, 339.) he draws a very singular picture of him­self, and the following words are strangely characteristic; uvto; nooa&axti tsvjiaQvv thtov* nuiywvtz . . . ravra to( Jia(?(0VTOVV ayt,^ofj.at Tivv <[9lifwv octteo ty^.tyXjjfi toi Sugicuv. The friends of the Abbe de la Bleterie adjured him, in thename of the French nation, not to translate this passage, so offensive to their deli­cacy (Hist. de Jovien, torn. ii. p. 94.). Iiike him, I have contented myself witha transient allusion; but the little animal, which Julian names, is a beast familiarto man, and signifies Love. VOL. II. o