OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 357 post for fortifying himself was on the river Aous. Thisriver runs in a narrow vale, between two mountains,one of which the natives call the river Asnaus, afford­ing a passage of very little breadth along the bank.He ordered Athenagoras, with the light infantry, totake possession of Asnaus, and to fortify it. His owncamp he pitched on iEropus. Those places, where therocks were steep, were defended by guards of a fewsoldiers only; the less secure he strengthened, somewith trenches, some with ramparts, and others withtowers. A great number of engines, also, were dis­posed in proper places, that, by means of weaponsthrown from these, they might keep the enemy at adistance. The royal pavilion was pitched on the out­side of the rampart, on the most conspicuous emi­nence, in order, by this show of confidence, to dis­hearten the foe, and raise the hopes of his own men. 6. The consul received intelligence from Charopusof Epirus, that the king, with his army, had postedhimself in this pass. As soon therefore as the springbegan to open, he left Corcyra, where he had passedthe winter, and, sailing over to the continent, led onhis army. When he came within about five milesof the king's camp, leaving the legions in a strongpost, he went forward in person with some light troopsto view the nature of the country; and, on the day fol­lowing, held a council, in order to determine whetherhe should, notwithstanding the great labor and dangerto be encountered, attempt a passage through the de­files occupied by the enemy, or lead round his forcesby the same road through which Sulpicius had pene­trated into Macedonia the year before. The delibera­tions on this question had lasted several days, whennews arrived that Titus Quintus had been elected con­sul; that he had obtained, by lot, Macedonia as hisprovince; and that hastening his journey, he had al­ready come over to Corcyra. Valerius Antias saysthat Villius marched into the defile, and that, as hecould not proceed straight forward, because every passwas occupied by the king, he followed the course of a