OCR Output NOTES ON THE stopped, lest something worse than things last mould be pro­duced; in order to accomplish this, the demiurgus of generableand corruptible nature, sending prolific powers into the realms ofgeneration, is again conjoined with the gods. "But these things indeed never took place at any particulartime, because they have a perpetuity of subsistence: and intel­lect contemplates all things as subsisting together; but discourseconsiders this thing as first, and that as second, in the order osexistence." For a further explanation of tlu's fable, which beingof the mixed species, belongs, as we are informed by Sallust, tomysticsacrifices, fee my translation of the emperor Julian's Orationto the Mother of the Gods. Page 223. Homer.'] Iliad 21. ver. 446. The reader mustcarefully observe, that the Neptune and Apollo mentioned inthese verses were heroes, and not gods. With respect to the statueof Apollo standing on the skull of an ox, the meaning of this willbe apparent from considering, that as the moon (as we have al­ready shewn from Porphyry) is the queen of generation, Apollo, orthe fun, who is paternally all that the moon is maternally, mustbe the king of generation, of which a bull or an ox is a symbol.Hence his treading on the head of an ox signifies his dominionover the realms of generation, and particularly over its summit,ether. Page 225. The oracle in Dodona.] Jupiter's oracle at Dodonawas the most ancient of all the oracles of Greece prior to theFlood,and was restored by Deucalion after it. The Scholiast uponthe 16th Iliad, v. 233, &c. informs us from a very ancient author,Thrasybulus, that Deucalion after the Flood, which happened inhis time, having got safe upon the firm land of Epirus, prophe­sied in an oak; and by the admonition of an oraculous dovehaving gathered together such as were saved from the flood,caused them to dwell together in a certain place or country, whichfrom Jupiter, and Dodaiia, one of the Oceanides, they called Do­dona. At Dodona there were brazen kettles, which it is said were