OCR Output 382 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. princes and nations of the earth to the profession ofXL" Islam. On this foundation, the zeal of the Arabianshas supposed the secret conversion of the emperor;and the vanity of the Greeks has feigned a personalvisit to the prince of Medina, who accepted from theroyal bounty a rich domain, and a secure retreat inthe province of Syria. But the friendship of Hera-clius and Mahomet was of short continuance ; the newreligion having inflamed rather than assuaged therapacious spirit of the Saracens. The prophet ofArabia expired in the 632d year of the Christianera. His successor Abubeker, in the first year of hisreign, sent an army under the command of Caled toinvade Persia. The battle of Cadesia, and a seriesof successful sieges, in a short time rendered himmaster of that kingdom. Yesdegerd, the last of theSassanian kings, was slain, when he attempted, withthe assistance of his Eastern allies, to recover the pos­session of his lost dominions. The river Oxus thenseparated the territories of the Saracens and theTurks; but the former soon traversed that boundary,and the Mahometan banners were in a short timedisplayed on the banks of the Indus, and on theshores of the Caspian sea. Syria * was also invaded by the lieutenants of In addition to the writers, that are enumerated by Mr. Gibbon in the followingnotes, I may refer the reader to a publication of Mr. Mills, entitled a history ofMuhammedanism, &c. in one vol. 8vo. second edition.—Ed. The private life of Mahomet, from his birth to his mission, is preserved byAbulfeda (in vit. c. 3. 7), and the Arabian writers of genuine or apocryphal notewho are alleged by Hottinger (in his Orient, p. 204—211), Maracci (tom. i. p.10 14), and Gagnier (Vie de Mahomet, tom. i. p. 97—134). For the domestic life of Mahomet, consult G.ignier, and the correspondingchapters of Abulfeda; for his diet (tom. iii. p. '285—'288); his children (p. 189—J89); his wives (p. 390. 303); his marriage with Zeineb (tom. ii. p. 152—160); hU amour with Mary (p. 303—309); the false accusation of Aycsha,(p. 186—199;. The most original evidence of the three last transactions is con­tained in the xxiv. xxxiii. and Ixvi. chapters of the Koran, and Sale's Commentary. The writers of the Modern Universal History (vol. i. and ii.) have compiled,in 850 folio pages, the life of Mahomet and the annals of the Caliphs. Theyenjoyed the advantage of reading and sometimes correcting the Arabic tex^, yet,notwithstanding their high sounding boasts, I cannot find, after the conclusion ofmy work, that they have afforded me much (if any) additional information. * A separate history of the conquest of Syria has been composed by Al Wakidi,