OCR Output 366 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. they had made contrivances to get pools of water, and laid upcorn in granaries for themselves, and were able to make greatresistance, by issuing out on the sudden against any that attackedthem; for the entrances of their caves were narrow, in whichbut one could come in at a time, and the places within incrediblylarge, and made very wide; but the ground over their habitationswas not very high, but rather on a plain, while the rocks arealtogether hard and difficult to be entered upon, unless any onegets into the plain road by the guidance of another, for theseroads are not straight, but have several revolutions. But whenthese men are hindered from their wicked preying upon theirneighbours, their custom is to prey one upon another, insomuchthat no sort of injustice comes amiss to them. But when Herodhad received this grant from Caesar, and was come into thiscountry, he procured skilful guides, and put a stop to their wick­ed robberies, and procured peace and quietness to the neighbour­ing people. 2. Hereupon Zenodorus was grieved, in the first place, be­cause his principality was taken away from him, and still moreso, because he envied Herod, who had gotten it; so he went upto Rome to accuse him, but returned back again without suc­cess. Now Agrippa was [about this time] sent to succeed Cae­sar in the government of the countries beyond the Ionian sea,upon whom Herod light when he was wintering about Mitylene,for he had been his particular friend and companion, and thenreturned into Judea again. ^Jowever, some of the Gadarenscame to Agrippa, and accused Herod, whom he sent back boundto the king without giving them the hearing: but still theArabians, who of old bare ill-will to Herod's government, werenettled, and at that time attempted to raise a sedition in his do­minions, and as they thought upon a more justifiable occasion:for Zenodorus, despairing already of success, as to his own af­fairs, prevented [his enemies,] by selling to those Arabians apart of his principality, called Auranitis, for the value of fiftytalents; but as this was included in the donations of Caesar, theycontested the point with Herod, as unjustly deprived of whatthey had bought. Sometimes they did this by making incur­sions upon him, and sometimes by attempting force againsthim, and sometimes by going to law with him. Moreover, theypersuaded the poorer soldiers to help them, and were trouble­some to him, out of a constant hope that they should seducethe people to raise a sedition; in which designs those that arein the most miserable circumstances of life, are still the mostearnest; and although Herod had been a great while apprized ofthese attempts, yet' did not he indulge any severity to them,