OCR Output SCYTHIA. SCYTHIA. 937 fiat opon which Strabo enlarges (vii. 3. §§ 7,8).tin ut Hsinaxobii (ir iwi)yats 0U1' fxon-ei), andAeschylus mentions them as tCvofxut. Tlie,v*mt simplicity of their milk-drinking habits((Lrni the credit of being men of mild and inno--t\ ippetil«5 with Ephorus (Strab. vii. p. 302), whor:svti them with the cannibal Sarmatae. Thereuik> u apparent confusion arising out of the[•:»* of SiiuJts to N6utoi (from ro)u>i - law).v Fnmetbetu of Aeschylus is bound to one ofi radu of Caucasus, on the distant border of therti, sod tbe inaccessible desert of the Scythians.>i'3 tie the Scythae of Aeschylus and Hesiod. * writers of the interval, who knew them as the>in of Asia, and aa historical agents, must have . wry different notion of them. Fragmentary2» a» to the evils inflicted during their inroads> u found in Callinus, Arch i loch us, &c. The»f them, however, belongs to the criticism of iiiitoriral portion of the account ofTtAxs-DAsr/BLAX Scythians op Herodotus:»u/ti: SrrniiAns or Hippocrates.—MuchIV Uerodotean history is simple legend. Theitory of an intermarriage of the females■. whilst their husbands were in Asia, were leftu*l *ith the slaves, and of the rebellion therein:uiing having been put down by the exhibition,j*rt of the returning masters, of the whipsk vaica the backs of the rebels had been prc-»h bat too familiar, belongs to tho Herodoteaniijm (iv. l—6). So do the myths concerning nriti of the nation, four in number, which mayfloated aa follows:— ■ 7k Account of the Scythians themsehet.—'a to the effect that Targitaus, the son of Zeus i daughter of the river Borysthenes, was thea* sf Leiocusau, Arpoxais, and CoUxais. In'Ufa, there fell from heaven a yoke, an axel*#»), » plough-share, and a enp, all of gold,tvnelder failed in taking them up; for they'• »uen they approached them. But the youngerft* fail ; and ruled accordingly. From Lei-» descended the Auchaetae (7«Voi) ■ from Ar--> the Catiari and Traspies; from ColaxaisI'inlatai. Tbe general name for all is " Sco- * l*m the Greeks call Scythae." This was3* 1000 years before the invasion of Darius,feki vm sacred; the country large. It ex-<l m far north that the continual fall of feathers'I prevented things from being seen. The cf the kingdoms was three, the greatest ofl Usui charge of the gold. Of this legend, the■*> astro partly Scythian, and partly due toewatry in which the Scythians settled. Theit tntn the Borysthenes belongs to this latter The story of the sons of Targitaus is found,1 rcaia features, amongst the present Tartars.*vi'-»tu more than one commentator has found * Twk. The threefold division reminds us•j-at. Middle, and Little Hordes of the A'ir-snl u must be observed that the words yreat- ii niddie (uryiorn and- fuffw) are found inrraiotean account. They may be more tech-uw detiiiite than is generally imagined. In there ia no Epuuymus, no Scytha, orThere is also the statement that^liusns are the youngest of all nations. Thisi c.'ii be, aa immigrants.The Aeammt of Ike Pontic Greeks.—1\m is tof-: titat Agatbyrsus, Gelonus, and Scythest) were the sons of Hercules and Kcliidna, the place- where they met being the Hylsea-The son that could draw the bow was to rule. Thiswas Scythes, owing to manoeuvres of his mother.He stayed in the land: the others went cnt. Thectip appears here as an emblem of authority. 3. The Second Greek Account—This is historicalrather than mythological. The Massagetae pressthe Scythians upon the Cimmerii, the latter flyingbefore them into Asia. This connects the historyof the parts about the Bosporus with Medio. Theinference from the distribution of the signs of Cim­merian occupancy confirms this account. Therewere the burial-places of tbe Cimmerii on the Tyras;there was the Cimmerian Bosporus, and betweenthem, with Cimmerian walls, Scythia (>) 2in/fiicV)).This is strong evidence in favour of Scythian ex­tension and Cimmerian preoccupancy. 4. The Account of Aritteas of Proconncsus.—This is a speculation rather than either a legend or apiece of history. Aristeas (Mure, History of GreekLiterature, vol. ii. 469, seq.) visited the countryof the Issedones. North of these lay tlie Ari-maspi; north of the Arimaspi the Monophthalmi;north of the Monophthalmi the Gold-guarding Grif­fins (rpuwer xpoffo^aAoxoi); and north of these, theHyperborei. The Hyperborei made no movements;but the Griffins drove the Monophthalmi, the Mono­phthalmi the Arimaspi, the Ariinas):i the Issedones,the Issedones the Scythians, the Scythians the Cim­merians, the Cimmerians having to leave their land;but they, as we learn elsewhere, attack the Medes.(Herod, iv. 5—16). No one had ever been furthernorth than Aristcas, an unsafe authority. The in­formation of Herodotus himself is chiefly that of theGreeks of the Borysthenes. He mentions, however,conversations with the steward of one of the Scythiankings. The Emporium of the Borystheneitae was centralto the Scythia of the sea-coast. In the direction ofthe Hypanis, i. e. west and north-west, tho orderof the population was as follows: the Callipidaoand Alazones ("EAAnvcs invOai), sowers and con­sumers of com; to the north of whom lay theScythae Aroteres, not only sowers of com, but sel­lers of it; to the north of these the Neuri; to thenorth of the Neuri cither a desert or a terra incog­nita (iv. 17, 18.) The physical geography helpsus here. The nearer we approach the most fertileprovince of Modern Russia, Podolia, wherein woplace the Scythae Aroteres, the more the Scythiancharacter becomes agricultural. The Hellenes Scy­thae (Callipidae and Alazones) belong more toKherson. That the Hellenes Scythae were either amixed race, or Scythicised Greeks, is unlikely. Thodoctrine of tho present writer is as follows: seeingthat they appear in two localities (viz. the Govern­ments of Kherson and Caucasus); seeing that ineach of these the populations of the later and morehistorical periods arc Aluni (Ptolemy's form for tliosoof Kherson is Alauni); seeing that even the Aluniof Caucasus are by one writer at least called dAidi-cmi 'AAaDpot; seeing that the root AAa* might havetwo plurals, one in -ut and one in -cf, he ends inseeing in tlie Hellenic Scythians simply certain Scy­thians of the Alan name. Neither does be doubtabout Geloni being the same word,—forms like Chuniand Hunni, Arpi and Carpi being found for theseparts. At any rate, tbe locality for the Callipidaeand Alazones suits that of Ptolemy'B Alauni, whilstthat of tlie Scythian Greeks and Geloni of Caucasussuits that of the Alans of the fourth and fifth centuries.