OCR Output 490 ORCHOMENUS. ORCHOMENUS. in Greece, vol. i. p. 2*J3, seq.; Ulrichs, ReUcn inGriechenland, p. 178, seq.) 2. An ancient city of Arcadia, called by Thucy-dides (v. Gl) the ARCADIAN (<S 'Apuaoiwos), todistinguish it from the Boeotian town. It wassituated in a plain surrounded on every side bymountains. This plain was bounded on the S. by alow range of hills, called Anchisia, which separatedit from the territory of Mantineia; on the N. by alofty chain, called Oligyrtus, through which lie thepasses into the territories of l'heneus and Stympha-lus; and on the I£. and W. by two parallel chainsrunning from X. to S.. which bore no specific namein antiijuity: the eastern range is in one part 5400feet high, and the western about 4000 feet. Theplain is divided into two by hills projecting on eitherhide from the eastern and western ranges, and whichapproach so close as to allow space for only a nar­row ravine between them. The western hill, onaccount of its rough and rugged form, was calledTrachy(Tpaxw) in antiquity; upon the summit of thewestern mountain .stood the acropjlis of Orchomenus.The northern plain is lower than the southern; thewaters of the latter run through the ravine betweenMount Trachy and that upon which Orchomenusstands into the northern plain, where, as there is nooutlet for the waters, they form a considerable lake.(Pans. viii. 13. § 4.) The acropolis of Orchomenus, stood upon a lofty,steep, and insulated hill, nearly 3000 feet high, re­sembling the strong fortress of the Messenian lihome,and, like the latter, commanding two plains. [SeeVol. II. p. 338.] From its situation and its legen­dary history, we may conclude that it was one of tliemost powerful cities of Arcadia in early times. Pau-eanias relates that Orchomonus was founded by aneponymous hern, the son of Lycaon (viii. 3. § 3);but there was a tradition that, on the death of Areas,his dominions were divided among his three sons, ofwhom Elatus obtained Orchomenus as his portion.(Schol. ad. Dionys. Per. 415.) The kings of Orcho­menus are said to have ruled over nearly all Arcadia.(Ileraclid. I'ont. ap. J)i<>f/- Lat.H. i. 1*4.) Pausn-nias also gives a list of the kings of Orchomenus,whom he represents at the same time as kings ofArcadia. One of these kings, ArUtoerates, the sonof Aechmis, was stoned to death by his people forviolating the virgin priestess of Artemis Hymnia.Aristocrates was succeeded by his son Hicetas, andHicetas by his son Aristoerates II., who. havingabandoned the Messenians at tlie battle of the Trenchin the second war against Sparta, experienced thefate of his grandfather, being stoned to death by theArcadians, lie apj^ars to have been the last kingof Orchomenus, who reigned over Arcadia, but hisfamily was not deprived of the kingdom of Orcho­menus. as is stated in some authorities, since wefind his sen Ai^t'xlenius represented as king of thecity. (Paus. viii. 5; Polyb. iv. 3; Heracl. Pont./. c.) It would appear, indeed, that royalty continuedto exist at Orchomenus long after its abolition inmost other Grecian cities, since Theophilus relatedthat Peisistratus, king of Orchomenus, was put todeath by the aristocracy in the Peloponnesian War.(Pint. ParalL 32.) Orchomenus is mentioned by Homer, who givesit the epithet of ico\vixi}Kos (//. ii. 605); and it isalso called ferns by Ovid ( Mi t. vi. 416), and a<pvtvsby Apollouius Khodius (iii. 512). In the Persianwars Orchomenus sent 120 men to Thermopylae(Herod- viii. 102), and COO to Plataeae (ix. 28). In the Peloponnesian War, the Lacedaemonims ccpf:"*!in Orchomenus the hostages they had taken finthe Arcadians; but the walls of the city wm tlwin a dilapidated state; and accordingly, wbffi toAthenians and their Peloponnesian allies artvixwagainst the city in u. c. 413, the Orebomenians iaranot offer resistance, and surrendered tlw k*ujw(Thuc. v. 61.) At the time of the foundaUfl iMegalopolis, we find the Orchomeruans eisupremacy over Theisoa, Methydrium, and leTiiicibut the inhabitants of these cities were then traofcrred to Megalopolis, and their territ ories t*)^to the latter.' (Paus. viii. 27. §4.) TheOJianians, throng!) their enmity to the Manu.*ia3s, Ifused to join the Arcadian confederacy, and male ■upon the Muntineians. (Xen. HtU. vi 5. is 11.■I)iod. xv. 62.) Henceforth < >rehon>ena5 kalpolitical iuqwirtance; but, from its commarniirxc MBtion, its jw)sses.-ion was frequently an object of 1belligerent powers in later times. In tht 1between Ca>sandcr and Poly^perchoo. it feil mto Ipower of the former, B. c. 313. (Diud.x:x.iIt subsequently espoused the side of the AeUiiawas taken by Cleomenes (Polyb. ii. 46). and Iafterwards retaken by Antigomis Dffcon, wiw pi*there a Macedonian garrison. (PoKb. ii. 54, it,Pint. Arat. 5.) It was given back by Phihp »Achaeans. (Liv. xxxii. 5.) Strabo mttitaMamong the Arcadian cities, which had either *peared, or of which there were scarcely an* taleft (viii. p. 338); but this appears fromto have been an exaggeration. When tins Hvisited the place, the old city npon the Kitranthe mountain was in ruins, and there were oniyivestiges of the agora and the town walU; bat ilfoot of the mountain there was still as isialtown. The upper town was probably desertedvery early period; for such is the natural strengits position, that we can hardly suppose ihatchomeniana were dwelling there in the Pe: oposaWar, when they were unable to resist an ieyi^;::^Pausanias mentions, as the most remarkahi* «ftin the place, a sourc<* of water, and temples of Sdon and Aphrodite, tvith statue* of stone. Oithe city was a wooden statue of Artemis, encloia great cedar tree, and hence called. CedtBelow the city were several heaps of stones. tfhave been erected to some persons *l*m a M(Pans. viii. 13.) The village of Kalpdki stands on tbe lit* ilower Orchomenus. On approaching the plartthe south the traveller sees, on his Wft. Uchiefly composed of collections of stort^ asdt*by Pausanias. Just above Kalj»zki are apieces of white marble columns, belor.c.rjancient temple. There are also soine re:: *■temple at a ruined church below the rill»-?which is a copious fountain, which is evK>aone described by Pausanias. On the sunn:,-:hill are some remains of the walls cl tfciancient Orchomenus. In the territory of Orchomenus, bat »3:that of Mantineia, consequently on the oislope of Mt. Anchisia, was the temple of JlHymnia. which was held in high veiieraijoQthe Arcadians in the most ancient tiro**, iviii. 5. § 11.) Its site is probably i&dio-*chapel of the Virgin Mary, which ttma iLevvDii, In the southern [lain is an ancient cxrol,conducts the waters from the surrvundinc rr<i