OCR Output 456 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. have been fatal to any other subject, the archbishop^XI1. rejected the gifts of Eugenius, declined his cor­respondence, and withdrew himself from Milan, toavoid the odious presence of a tyrant; whose down-fal he predicted in discreet and ambiguous language.The merit of Ambrose was applauded by the con­queror, who secured the attachment of the people byhis alliance with the church: and the clemency ofTheodosius is ascribed to the humane intercession ofthe archbishop of Milan*.Death of After the defeat of Eugenius, the merit, as well asAhD?395!' tne authority, of Theodosius was cheerfully acknow-Jan. 17. ledged by all the inhabitants of the Roman world.The experience of his past conduct encouraged themost pleasing expectations of his future reign; andthe age of the emperor, which did not exceed fiftyyears, seemed to extend the prospect of the publicfelicity. His death, only four months after his vic-, tory, was considered by the people as an unforeseenand fatal event, which destroyed, in a moment, thehopes of the rising generation. But the indulgenceof ease and luxury had secretly nourished the prin­ciples of disease. The strength of Theodosius wasunable to support the sudden and violent transitionfrom the palace to the camp; and the increasingsymptoms of a dropsy announced the speedy dissolu­tion of the emperor. The opinion, and perhaps theinterest, of the public, had confirmed the division ofthe Eastern and Western empires; and the two royalyouths, Arcadius and Honorius, who had already ob­tained, from the tenderness of their father, the titleof Augustus, were destined to fill the thrones of Con­stantinople and of Rome. Those princes were not * The events of this civil war are gathered from Ambrose (torn. ii. epist xii.p. 1022), Paulinus (in Vit. Ambros. c. 26—34), Augustin (de Civitat. Dei, v.26), Orosius (1. vii. c. 35), Sozomen (1. vii. c. 24), Theodoret (I. v. c. 24), Zosi,mus (1. iv. p. 281,282), Claudian (in iii. Cons. Hon. 63—105. in iv Cons. Hon.70—117), and the Chronicles published by Scaligcr.