OCR Output nnals [A. U. C.773. in a litter, guarded by a tribune of the prsetoriajibands: but whether that officer was sent to protecthim from the populace, or to see justice executed, wasleft to conjecture and vague reports. XV. Plancina, no less than her husband, was anobject of public detestation; but protected by courtfavour, she was thought to be out of the reach of herenemies. What Tiberius would do was uncertain.While she supposed herself involved in the fate ofPiso, without a gleam of better hope, her languagewas that of a woman willing to share all chances withher husband, and, if he was doomed to fall, deter­mined to perish with him. Having in the mean time,by the interest of Livia, obtained her pardon, she be­gan to change her tone, and pursue a separate interest.Finding himself thus abandoned, Piso despaired of hiscause. Without further struggle, he intended to re­sign himself to his fate; but, by the advice of hissons, he resumed his courage, and once more appear­ed before the senate. The prosecution was renewedwith vigour; the fathers spoke in terms of acrimony;every thing was adverse; and the prisoner plainly sawthat his fate was decided. In this distress nothing af­fected him so deeply as the behaviour of Tiberius, whosat in sullen silence, neither proVoked to anger, norsoftened by compassion, with his usual art stiflingevery emotion of the heart. Piso was conducted backto his house. He there wrote a few lines, in appear­ance preparing his defence for the ensuing day, andhaving sealed the paper, delivered it to one of hisfreedmen. The usual attentions to his person filledup his time, till, at a late hour of the night, his wifehaving left the room, he ordered the door to be madefast. In the morning he was found dead; his throatcut, and his sword lying near him on the ground. XVI. I remember to have heard from men advancedin years, that a bundle of papers, not produced at thetrial, was often seen in the hands of Piso, containing,as his friends attested, the letters of Tiberius, full ofinstructions hostile to Germanicus. These docu­ments would have transferred the guilt to the empe­ror; but by the delusive promises of Sejanus, they