OCR Output 376 ROMAN EMPIRE. that belong to the synagogue of Satan, who have shavencrowns ;a be sure you cleave their skulls, and give themno quarter till they either turn Mahometans, or pay tri­bute. All profane or frivolous conversation; all dan­gerous recollection of ancient quarrels, was severely pro­hibited among the Arabs: in the tumult of a camp, theexercises of religion were assiduously practised; and theintervals of action were employed in prayer, meditation,and the study of the Koran. The abuse, or even the useof wine was chastised by fourscore strokes on the soles ofthe feet, and in the fervour of their primitive zeal, manysecret sinners revealed their fault, and solicited theirpunishment. After some hesitation the command of thearmy was delegated to Abu Obeidah, one of the fugitivesof Mecca and companions of Mahomet; whose zeal anddevotion were assuaged, without being abated, by thesingular mildness and benevolence of his temper. Butin all the emergencies of war, the soldiers demanded thesuperior genius of Caled; and whoever might be thechoice of the prince, the sword of God was both in factand fame the foremost leader of the Saracens. Heobeyed without reluctance; he was consulted withoutjealousy; and such was the spirit of the man, or ratherof the times, that Caled professed his readiness to serveunder the banner of the faith, though it were in the handsof a child or an enemy. Glory, and riches, and domi­nion, were indeed promised to the victorious Mussulman;but he was carefully instructed, that if the goods of thislife were his only incitement, they likewise would be hisonly reward. siege of One of the fifteen provinces of Syria, the cul-Bosra. tivated lands to the eastward of the Jordan, hadbeen decorated by Roman vanity with the name of Ara- * Even in the seventh century, the monks were generally laymen. they woretheir hair long and dishevelled, and shaved their heads when they were ordainedpriests. The circular tonsure was sacred and mysterious: it was the crown ofthorns, but it was likewise a royal diadem, and every priest was a king, &c. (Tbo-massin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. 1. p. 721—758.especially p. 737,738.)