OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 145 to every quarter, occasioned perplexity at first. After­wards discovering their design by means of scouts, theyattacked their cities, one after another, and within thespace of fifty days took, intirely by force, forty-onetowns, most of which were rased and burnt, and therace of the .<Equans almost extirpated. A triumph wasgranted over the ^Equans. The Marrucinians, Mar-sians, Pelignians, and Ferentans, warned by the ex­ample of their disasters, sent deputies to Rome to so­licit peace and friendship ; and these states, on theirsubmissive applications, were admitted into alliance. 46. In the same year Caius Flavius, son of Cneius,grandson of a freedman, a notary, in low circumstancesoriginally, but artful and eloquent, was appointedcurule edile. I find in some annals that, being in at­tendance on the ediles, and seeing that he was votededile by the prerogative tribe, but that his name wouldnot be received, because he acted as a notary, he threwdown his tablet, and took an oath that he would not,for the future, follow that business. But Licinius Ma-cer contends that he had dropped the employment ofnotary a considerable time before, having already beena tribune, and twice a triumvir, once for regulating thenightly watch, and another time for conducting a co­lony. However, of this there is no dispute, that to thecontempt thrown by the nobles on the meanness of hiscondition, he opposed much firmness. He made publicthe rules of proceeding injudicial causes, hitherto shutup in the closets of the pontiffs; and hung up to publicview, round the forum, the calendar on white tablets,that all might know when business could be transactedin the courts. To the great displeasure of the nobles,he performed the dedication of the temple of Concord,in the area of Vulcan's temple ; and the chief pontiff',Cornelius Barbatus, was compelled by the united in­stances of the people, to dictate to him the form ofwords, although he affirmed that, consistently with thepractice of antiquity, no other than a consul, or com­mander-in-chief, could dedicate a temple. This occa­sioned a law to be proposed to the people, by direction LIV. VOL. III. K