OCR Output 1202 VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA. is evidently the station Ad Medias of the JerusalemItinerary. A short distance from Terracina theVia Appin at length deviated from the direction ithad bo long pursued, and turning to tin: left as­cended the steep hill on which the ancient city stood[Tarracina], while the modern road is carriedround the foot of this hill, close to the sea. Thedistance of Tarracina from Rome is correctly givenat 61 miles in the Antonine Itinerary. From Terracina the line of the ancient road maystill be traced distinctly all the way to Fotidi, andis flanked by ruins of villas, dilapidated tombs, &c,through a preat part of its course. It first as­cended the lull above tlie city as far as the conventof San Francesco, and afterwards descended intothe valley beneath, joining the modern highroadfrom Home to Naples about 3 miles from Terracina,just before crossing the frontier of the Papal States.The narrow pass at the foot of the mountains, whichthe road here follows, between the rocks and themarshy lake of Fondi, is the celebrated defile ofLautulae, or Ad Lautulas, which more than oncebears a conspicuous part in Roman history. [Lau­tulae.] The distance from Tarracina to Fundiis overstated in the Antonine Itinerary: the truedistance docs not exceed 13 miles, as correctly givenin the Jerusalem Itinerary. From Fundi to For-miae (Mola d% Gaeta), a distance of 13 miles, theroad passed through a rugged and mountainouscountry, crossing a complete mountain pass: thesubstructions of the ancient way are in many placesf-tiil visible, as well as portions of the pavement,and numerous ruins of buildings, for the mostpart of little interest. The bridges also are in se­veral instances the ancient ones, or at least rest uponancient substructions. The ruins of Formiaeaod ofthe numerous villas with which it was adorned linethe shores at Mola di Gacta, and bound the roadfor a space of more than 2 miles: other ruins, prin­cipally sepulchral, are scattered along its line al­most all the way thence to Minitknae. Theruins of this latter city stand on the right bank ofthe Liris (Garigliano), a short distance from itsmonth, and about a mile and a half below the villageof Traghetto. The line of the ancient road fromMola thither is clearly traced and susceptible of nodoubt: the distance is correctly given as 9 miles.Here the Via Appi'a crossed the Liris, and was con-tinned nearly in a straight line through a level andmarshy district along the sea-coast to Sinuessa, theruins of which are found near the village of Man-tlraffone. The distance of 9 miles between the two(s;iven in both Itineraries) is somewhat less than thetruth. It was at Sinuessa that the Appian Wayfinally quitted the coa.it of the Tyrrhenian sea(Strab. v. p. 233), and struck inland towards Ca­pua, passing by the stations of Pons Campanus andAd Octavum. But this part of its course has notbeen very distinctly traced, and there is some diffi­culty as to the distances given. The three sub­divisions of the Jerusalem Itinerary would give 26miles for the total distance from Sinuessa to Capua;and the coincidence of this sum with the statementof the Antonine Itinerary, as given by Wes^eling, isa strong argument in favour of the reading xxviil. P. instead of xvi. adopted by Pinder. The latternumber is certainly too small, for the direct distancebetween the two points is not less than 21 miles,and the mad must have deviated from the straightine on account of the occurrence of the marshes ofhe Savo, as well as of the river Vulturnus. It is probable, therefore, that it made a ctsy^niigbend, and that the distance was thus pMSEei:but the question cannot be settled nntil this ?ar. <ithe road lias been more accuraK-ly traced this mhitherto been done. The distances pvt» is u»Tabula are too inaccurate to be of a£y us*: &s r.appears probable from that document tint theCampanus was a bridge over the littie river Hn.and not, as might have been suspected, over theturnus, which the Appian Way dhl not era* *_jit arrived at Casilinum, 3 miles from Cncs. I:was here that it united with the Va Lt-a.(Strab. v. p. 237; Tab. Peut.) The total distance from Rome to Capua (if tiadopt 26 miles as that from Sinuessa) vastier**131 miles. This portion of the Via Ajfi* as tar*Minturnae has been traced with mock ears ;tWestphal (Rvmisckc Kamfnu^ne, pp. 22—70i. *well as by Chaupy (Maison dUoract. vol. m s.365—461) and Sir R. Hoare (Ctazntvi 7wvol. i. pp. 81 — 14S); but all these acct<u:r» iff >-rlcient in regard to the portion between llxtrz«and Capua. Several minor branches or cross lise* parted £*ethe Via Appia during this first portion ot A rrjr*.Of these it may suffice to mention: 1. Tt»\uAkoeatina, which quitted the Via Appia a: » *£Ttdistance beyond the Almo, jnat afterOsteria dell Acquataccio: it proceeded ia awrystraight line to Ardea, 23 miles from Kan*. [Ai*dea.] 2. The Via Antiatixa, which braaciaioff from the Appian Way just before mrzzBovillae, and proceeded direct to Antium, 3? c^sfrom Koine. It probably followed nearly tb« az*line as the modern road, but its precise <not been traced. 3. The Via Sinus a qu.n*ii tlxAppian Way, shortly after passing Trerntirraai.proceeded in a direct line to Setia (Sazx):derable portions of the ancient pavement **iJ ^main. 4. A branch road, the name of wfcieb a o-known, diverged from the Via Appia at Ustmn.and proceeded to Teanum (18 miles disCAi:' tthe Via Latina, whence it was continued tartarsAllifae and Telesta to Beneventum. [Via L-ittsj-5. The Via Domitiana. constructed by ti* ca­pe ror of that name, of which Statius has left ■ »pompous description. (Si'/r. it. 3.) It was i »tinuatiou of the coast-road frum Sinuessa, basecarried across the Vulturnus close to its nmia M »bridge which must really hare been a work «sdifficulty; thence it followed closely tie k* icoast as far as Cumae, whence it struckto Puteoli. The road communicating bri*ecrcity and Xeapolis was previously in ei;>teo«- TVdistances on this ruid, as given in tne A&^tItinerary (p. 122). are;— From Sinuessa to Liternum xxit. m. r. (tiis sxalbe a mistake for nv.)thence to Cumae - ri. Puteoli - in.Neapolis - r.There was also a direct road from Capaa t* N**?"-lis (Tab. Pad.), passing through AtcUa, nmidway between the two cities.2. Prom Capua to Beneventum.This portion of the road may be very br^y im­posed of. From Capua it was c*ctieu«< »: ^''the plain as far as Calatia, the site of wiutiat Le Galazzc, near Maddaiom * it then ertrwi &Apennines, and, passing through ih» ni'ff ^Aricnzo, commonly supposed to be the ax&vp*