OCR Output 384 MYGDONIA. MYLAE. MYGD07HA(MtryooWa: Eth. MiySovtt, Steph.B.), a district of Macedonia, which comprehendedthe plains round Thessalonica, together with thevalleys of KILmli and Benikia, extending towardsthe K. as far as the Axius (Herod, vii. 123), andincluding the Lake Bolbe to the E. (Thuc. i. 58.)To the N. it was joined by Crestonia, for the Echi-dorus, which flowed into the gulf near the marshesof the Axius, had its sources in Crcstonia (Herud.vii. 124). while the pass of Aulon or Arcthusawas probably the boundary of Mygdonia towardsBis.iltia. The maritime part of Mygdonia formeda district called Amphaxitis, a distinction whichfirst occurs in Polybius (v. 98), who divides all thegreat plain at the head of the Thermaic gulf intoAmphaxitis and Botti.iea, and which is found threecenturies later in Ptolemy (iii. 13. § 36). Thelatter introduces Amphaxitis twice under the sub­divisions of Macedonia,—'in one instance placingunder that name the mouths of the Echidorus andAxius, with Thessalonica as the only town, whichagrees with Polybius, and particularly with Strabo(vii. p. 330). In the other place, Ptolemy includesStagura and Arethusa in Amphaxitis, which, if itbe correct, would indicate that a portion of Am­phaxitis, very distant from the Axius, was separatedfrom the remainder by a part of Mygdonia; but asthis is improbable, the word is perhaps an error inthe text. The original inhabitants, the Mygdonians,were a tribe belonging to the great Thracian race,and were powerful enough to bequeath their nameto it, even after the Macedonian conquest, (Thuc.ii. 99.) The cities of this district were Tiikssa- I/OXICA, SlNlHJS, ClIALASTKA, Al.TL'S, STrtKPSA, Cissus, Mblusurois, Heraci.f.ustks. Besidesthese, the following obscure towns occur in Ptolemy(/. c):—Cliaetae, Moryllus, Antigoneia, Calindaca,Boerus. Pln>ea,Trepillus,Carabia, Xvlopolis, Assorus,Lcte, Phileros. Attn the towns which occupied thefertile plain between Mt. Cissus and the Axius, theirpopulation was no doubt absorbed by Thessalonica, onits foundation by Cassander, and remains of them arenot likely to be found; nor are the ancient referencessufficient to indicate their sites. One of these wouldworn, from ancient inscriptions which were found atKhairdt, to have stood in that position, and othersprobably occupied similar positions on the last fallsof the heights which extend nearly from Khairdtto the Axius. One in particular is indicated bysome largo '* tumuli" or barrows, situated at two-thirds of that distance. (Leake, Sorth. Greece,vol. iii. p. 448.) [E. B. J.] MYGDONIA (Minima, Plat Luadl. c 32;Polyb. v. 31), a district in the NE. part of Mesopo­tamia, adjoining the country now called the Sinjar.According to Strabo, tho people who were namedMygdones came originally from Macedonia, and oc­cupied the district extending from Zeugma to Tha-pvicus (xvi. p. 747); as, however, he states in thesame place that Xisibis was called by the Mace­donians " Antiocheia in Mygdonia," and places it inthe immediate neighbourhood of M. Masius, hewould appear to have thought that it was on theeastern side of Mesopotamia. Plutarch relates theU'nc story of the Greek name of Nisibis (LuculLr. 32). In Stephanus Byx. the name is writtenMvx^ovia. which is probably an error. In manyof the earlier editions of Xenophon, a ]ieople arespoken of who are called MoySdi'ioi; the later andbetter editions read, however, Maptiii'toi, which isnnxa probable (Anub. iv. 3. § 4). [Y.J MYGDO'NTUS (M«r>*W, Julian. Oral. p. 27).the river which flows by the town of Nisibis (nowNuibin). It lakes its rise, together with the Kka-biir and one or two other streams, in the M. Masius(now Karja Baghlar). Its present name is tinHcrmei or S'ahr-al-lluali. [V.] MYLAE (MuAoi: Eth. Mi/Aafrnt, Steph. B.;M»Xaioi, Diod.: Milium), a city on the N. coast of Sicily,about 30 miles from Cape Pelorns, and 20 from Tyn-daris, though Strabo calls it 25 miles from each ofthese points. (Strab. vi. p. 266.) It was situatedon the narrow neck or isthmus of a projecting pe­ninsular headland, about 5 miles in length, thefurthest point of which is only about 15 miles fromthe island of Hiera or Vulcano, the nearest to Sicilyof the Lipari islands. Mylae was undoubtedly aGreek colony founded by the Zanckieans, and appearsto have long continued subject to, or dependent onits parent city of Zancle. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Seym.Ch. 2S8.) llcnce Thucydides speaks of Himera asin his time the only Greek city on the N. coast of theisland, omitting Mylae, because it was not an inde­pendent city or state. (Thuc. vi. 62.) The peri.Jof its foundation is wholly uncertain. Siefert wooalidentify it with the city called Chcrsonestis by Eu**-bius, the foundation of which that author assigns to aperiod as early as B.C. 716, but the identification isvery questionable. (Euseb. Chron. ad 01.161; Siefert,ZanLU-Mestana, p. 4.) It is certain, however,that it was founded before Himera, B. c. 648, as,according to Strabo, the Zanclaeans at Mylae tookpart in the colonisation of the latter city. (Strab. vip. 272.) Mylae itself does not appear to have everrisen to any great importance; and after the revolu­tion which changed the name of Zancle to that ofMessana, still continued in the same dependent re­lation to it as la-fore. It was, however, a strongfortress, with a good port; and these advantageswhich it derived from its natural situation, renderedit a place of importance to the Mcssanians as secur­ing their communications with the N. coast of thaisland. Scylax speaks of it as a Greek dry andport (Scyl. p. 4. § 13), and its castle or fortress ismentioned by several ancient writers. The earliwthistorical notice of the city is found in B. c. 427,when the Athenian licet uuder Laches which ansastationed at Khrgium, made an attack upon Mylae.The place was defended by the Messanians with astrong garrison, but was compelled to surrender u»the Athenians and their allies, who thereuponmarched against Messana itself. (Thuc. iii. 90; D»«i.xii. 54.) After the destruction of Messana by thaCarthaginian general Himilion, Mylae appears tohave for a time shaken off its dependence; andin ii. c. 394. the Rhcgians, becoming alarmed atthe restoration of Messana by Dtonysiu-s whichthey regarded as directed against themselves, pro­ceeded to establish at Mylae the exiles from Naxsand Catana, with a view to create a countcrrlie<a;to the rising power of Messana. The scheme, how­ever, failed of effect; the lihegians were defeatedand the Messanians recovered possession of Mykav(Diod. xiv. 87.) That city is again notirad dunnfthe war of Tinwleon in Sicily; and in B. r. 915 icwas wrested by Agathocles, from the Mr>unians,though he was mun after compelled Ui restore it tothem. (Id. xix. 65: Plat. Timol, 37.) It was iathe immediate neighbourhood of Mylae also (Jr ryMuAotV Tt&tifi') that the forces of the Mamiiliasawere defeated in a great battle, by Hicran of Syra­cuse, B c. 270(Pol. i. 9; Diod. xxii. 13); IhJufh.