OCR Output 248 ROMAN EMPIRE. on the powerful, who aspired to command. The empireof Charlemagne and Otho was distributed among thedukes of the nations or provinces, the counts of thesmaller districts, and the margraves of the marches orfrontiers, who all united the civil and military authorityas it had been delegated to the lieutenants of the firstCaesars. The Roman governors, who, for the most part,were soldiers of fortune, seduced their mercenary legions,assumed the imperial purple, and either failed or suc­ceeded in their revolt, without wounding the power andunity of government. If the dukes, margraves, andcounts, of Germany, were less audacious in their claims,the consequences of their success were more lasting andpernicious to the state. Instead of aiming at the su­preme rank, they silently laboured to establish and ap­propriate their provincial independence. Their ambitionwas seconded by the weight of their estates and vassals,their mutual example and support, the common interestof the subordinate nobility, the change of princes andfamilies, the minorities of Otho III. and Henry IV., theambition of the popes, and the vain pursuits of the fugi­tive crowns of Italy and Rome. All the attributes ofregal and territorial jurisdiction were gradually usurpedby the commanders of the provinces; the right of peaceand war, of life and death, of coinage and taxation, offoreign alliance and domestic economy. Whatever hadbeen seized by violence, was ratified by favour or dis­tress, was granted as the price of a doubtful vote or avoluntary service; whatever had been granted to one,could not, without injury, be denied to his successor orequal; and every act of local or temporary possession wasinsensibly moulded into the constitution of the Germanickingdom. In every province, the visible presence of theduke or count was interposed between the throne andthe nobles; the subjects of the law became the vassalsof a private chief; and the standard, which he receivedfrom his sovereign, was often raised against him in the