OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. in which the land is barren, the waters are impure, andthe air is infectious. Curiosity and ambition no longerattracted the nations to the capital of the world: but ifchance or necessity directed the steps of a wanderingstranger, he contemplated with horror the vacancy and•solitude of the city, and might be tempted to ask, Whereis the senate, and where are the people? In a season ofexcessive rains, the Tiber swelled above its banks, andrushed with irresistible violence into the valleys of theseven hills. A pestilential disease arose'from the stag­nation of the deluge, and so rapid was the contagion,that fourscore persons expired in an hour, in the midstof a solemn procession, which implored the mercy of Hea­ven." A society, in which marriage is encouraged andindustry prevails, soon repairs the accidental losses of pes­tilence and war; but as the far greater part of the Ro­mans was condemned to hopeless indigence and celibacy,the depopulation was constant and visible, and thegloomyenthusiasts might expect the approaching failure of thehuman race." Yet the number of citizens still exceededthe measure of subsistence: their precarious food wassupplied from the harvests of Sicily or Egypt; and thefrequent repetition of famine betrays the inattention ofthe emperor to a distant province. The edifices of Romewere exposed to the same ruin and decay; the moulderingfabrics were easily overthrown by inundations, tempests,and earthquakes, and the monks, who had occupied themost advantageous stations, exulted in their base triumphover the ruins of antiquity.p It is commonly believed,that pope Gregory L attacked the temples and mutilated n The inundation and plague were reported by a deacon, whom his hishop, Gre­gory of Tours, had dispatched to Rome for some relics. The ingenious messengerembellished his tale and the river with a great dragon and a train of little serpents.(Greg. Turon, lib. 10. c. 1.) ° Gregory of Rome (Dialog. lib. 2. c. 15.) relates a memorable prediction of St.Benedict. Roma a Gentilibus non exterminahitur sed tempestatibus, ooruscis turhi-nibus ac terrae motu in semetipsa marcescet. Such a prophecy melts into true his­tory, and becomes the evidence of the fact after which it was invented. p Quia in uno so ore cum Jovis laudibus, Christi laudes hon capiunt, et quamgrave nefandumque sit episcopis canere quod nec laico religioso cpnveniat, ipsecon^sidera. (lib. 9. ep. 4.) The writings of Gregory himself attest his innocence of anyclassic taste or literature.