OCR Output Ij4 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI. The Athenians, with the reinforcements of their al­lies, were by this time all arrived at Corcyra. And thefirst thing done by the commanders was, to take a re­view of the whole equipment, and to settle the orderin which they were to anchor and form their naval sta-,tion. They also divided it into three squadrons, andcast lots for the command of each; to the end that, inthe course of the voyage, they might be well suppliedwith water, and harbours, and the proper necessaries,wherever they might chance to put in; that, in otherrespects, a better discipline might be kept up, and themen be more inured to a ready obedience, as being under theinspection of an able commander in each several division.These points being settled, they dispatched three vesselsto Italy and Sicily, to pick up informations, what citieson those coasts would give them a reception. And theirorders were, to come back in time and meet them uponthe voyage, that they might be advertised into whatports they might safely enter. These previous points being adjusted, the Athenians,with an equipment already swelled to so great a bulk,weighing anchor from Corcyra, stood across for Sicily.The total of their triremes was a hundred and thirty-four, to which were added two Rhodian vessels of fiftyoars. One hundred of these were Athenian, and, of thisnumber, sixty were tight ships fit for service; the restwere transports for the soldiery. The remainder of thefleet consisted of Chians and the other allies. The totalof the heavy-armed on-board was five thousand onehundred men. Of these, fifteen hundred were citizensof Athens inrolled; seven hundred were Athenians ofthe lowest class, (called Tbetes,) who served by way ofmarines. The rest of the force consisted of the quotasof their alliance; some, of their own dependents; fivehundred belonged to the Argives; the number of Man-tineans and mercenaries was two hundred and fifty; thearchers in the whole amounted to four hundred and eighty;