OCR Output 326 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. did they desist till he was entirely suffocated; and thus was Aris-tobulus murdered, having lived no more in all than * eighteenyears, and kept the high priesthood one year only: which highpriesthood Ananelus now recovered again. 4. When this sad accident was told the women, their joy wassoon changed to lamentation, at the sight of the dead body thatlay before them; and their sorrow was immoderate. The cityalso of [Jerusalem,] upon the spreading of this news, were invery great grief, every family looking on this calamity, as ifit had not belonged to another, but that one of themselves wasslain; but Alexandra was more deeply affected, upon her know­ledge that he had been destroyed [on purpose.] Her sorrowwas greater than that of others, by her knowing how the mur­der was committed, but she was under a necessity of bearing upunder it, out of her prospect of a greater mischief that mightotherwise follow: and she oftentimes came to an inclination tokill herself with her own hand, but still she restrained herself,in hopes she might live long enough to revenge the unjust mur­der thus privately committed; nay, she farther resolved to en­deavour to live longer, and to give no occasion to think she sus­pected that her son was slain on purpose, and supposed that shemight thereby be in a capacity of revenging it at a proper op­portunity. Thus did she restrain herself, that she might notbe noted for entertaining any such suspicion. However, Herodendeavoured that none abroad should believe that the child'sdeath was caused by any design of his ; and for this purpose hedid not only use the ordinary signs of sorrow, but fell into tearsso, and exhibited a real confusion of soul: and perhaps his af­fections were overcome on this occasion, when he saw the child'scountenance so young, and so beautiful, although his deathwas supposed to tend to his own security; so far at least thisgrief served as to make some apology for him: and as for hisfuneral, that he took care should be very magnificent, by mak­ing great preparation for a sepulchre to lay his body in, andproviding a great quantity of spices, and burying many orna­ments together with him, till the very women, who were insuch deep sorrow, were astonished at it, and received in thisway some consolation, 5. However, no such things could overcome Alexandra's grief,but the remembrance of this miserable case made her sorrowboth deep and obstinate. Accordingly, she wrote an account ofthis treacherous scene to Cleopatra, and how her son was mur­ * The reading of one of Josephus' Greek MSS. seems here to be right, that Ar-istobulus was not eighteen years old when he was drowned, for he was not sevmtcfnwhen he was made high priest, ch. ii. sect. 6. ch. iii. sect. 3. and he continued inthat office but one year, as in the place before us.