OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. artifice with which he reduced the size, without defacingthe figure, of the gold coin. Instead of expecting therestoration of peace and industry, he imposed a heavyassessment on the fortunes of the Italians. Yet his pre­sent or future demands were less odious than a prosecu­tion of arbitrary rigour against the persons and propertyof all those, who, under the Gothic kings, had been con­cerned in the receipt and expenditure of the public mo­ney. The subjects of Justinian who escaped these par­tial vexations, were oppressed by the irregular mainte­nance of the soldiers whom Alexander defrauded anddespised; and their hasty sallies, in quest of wealth orsubsistence, provoked the inhabitants of the countryto await or implore their deliverance from the virtuesof a Barbarian. Totilak was chaste and temperate; andnone were deceived, either friends or enemies, who de­pended on his faith or his clemency. To the husband­men of Italy the Gothic king issued a welcome procla­mation, enjoining them to pursue their important la­bours, and to rest assured, that, on the payment of theordinary taxes, they should be defended by his valour anddiscipline from the injuries of war. The strong townshe successively attacked; and as soon as they hadyielded to his arms, he demolished the fortifications ;' tosave the people from the calamities of a future siege, todeprive the Romans of the arts of defence, and to decidethe tedious quarrel of the two nations, by an equaland honourable conflict in the field of battle. TheRoman captives and deserters were tempted to inlist inthe service of a liberal and courteous adversary; theslaves were attracted by the firm and faithful promise,that they should never be delivered to their masters; andfrom the thousand warriors of Pa via, a new people, either disgraced or despised,, the ink of the Anecdotes (c. 4, 5.18.) is, scarcelyblacker than that of the Gothic History, (lib. 3. c. 1. 3, 4. 9. 20, 21, &c.) * Procopins (lib. 3. c. 2. 8. &c.) does ample and willing justice to the merit ofTotila. The Roman historians, from Sallust and Tacitus, were happy to forget thevices of their countrymen in the contemplation of harharic virtue. VOL. V. T