OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL exercise, he appeared in person on the banks of the Euphrates, curbed the prideof the Saracens, and suppressed the dangerous though just revolt of the Mani-chacans. His indignation against a rebel who had long eluded his pursuit, pro­voked him to wish and to pray, that by the grace of God, he might drive threearrows into the head of Chrysochir. That odious head, which had been obtainedby treason rather than by valour, was suspended from a tree, and thrice exposedto the dexterity of the imperial archer: a base revenge against the dead, moreworthy of the times, than of the character of Basil. But hisprincipal merit wasin the civil administration of the finances and of the laws. To replenish an ex­hausted treasury, it was proposed to resume the lavish and ill-placed gifts of hispredecessors: his prudence abated one moiety of the restitution; and a sum of3,200,000/. was instantly procured to answer the most pressing demands, and toallow some space for the mature operations of economy. Among the variousschemes for the improvement of the revenue, a new mode was suggested of capi­tation, or tribute, which would have too much depended on the arbitrary discre­tion of the assessors. A sufficient list of honest and able agents was instantly pro­duced by the minister; but on the more careful scrutiny of Basil himself, only twocould be found, who might be safely intrusted with such dangerous powers; andthey justified his esteem by declining his confidence. But the serious and success­ful diligence of the emperor established by degrees an equitable balance of pro­perty and payment, of receipt and expenditure; a peculiar fund was appropriatedto each service; and a public method secured the interest of the prince and theproperty of the people. After reforming the luxury, he assigned two patrimonialestates to supply the decent plenty, of the imperial table: the contributions of thesubject were reserved for his defence: and the residue was employed in the em­bellishment of the capital and provinces. A taste for building, however costly,may deserve some praise and much excuse; from thence industry is fed, art is en­couraged, and some object is attained of public emolument or. pleasure; the use ofa road, an aqueduct,or a hospital, is obvious and solid; and the hundred churchesthat arose by the command of Basil, were consecrated to the devotion of the age.In the character of a judge he was assiduous and impartial; desirous to save, butnot afraid to strike: the oppressors of the people were severely chastised; but hispersonal foes, whom it might be unsafe to pardon, were condemned, after the lossof their eyes, to a life of solitude and repentance. The change of language andmanners'demanded a revision of the obsolete jurisprudence of Justinian: the vo­luminous body of his institutes, pandects, code, and novels, was digested underforty titles, in the Greek idiom; and the Basilica, which were improved and-com­pleted by his son and grandson, must be referred to the original genius of thefounder of their race. This glorious reign was terminated by at) accident in thechase. A furious stag entangled his horns in the belt of Basil, and raised himfrom his horse: he was rescued by an attendant, who cut the belt and slew the ani­mal; but the fall, or the fever, exhausted the strength of the aged monarch, andhe expired in the palace, amidst the tears of his family and people. If he struckoff the head of the faithful servant for presuming to draw his sword against hissovereign, the pride of despotism, which had lain dormant in his life, revived inthe last moments of despair, when he no longer wanted or valued the opinion ofmankind. Of the four sons of the emperor, Constantine died before his father, whose griefand credulity were amused by a flattering impostor and a vain apparition. Ste- Ehen, the youngest, was content with the honours of a patriarch and a saint: both,eo and Alexander were alike invested with the purple, but the powers of govern­ment were solely exercised by the elder brother. The name of Leo VI. has beendignified with the title of fihiloso/iker; and the union of the prince and the sage, ofthe active and speculative virtues, would indeed constitute the perfection of humannature. _ But the claims of Leo are far short of this ideal excellence. Did he reducehis passions and appetites under the dominion of reason ? His life was spent in thepomp of the palace, in the society of his wives and concubines; and even the cle­mency which he showed, and the peace which he strove to preserve, must be im­puted to the softness and indolence of his character. Did he subdue his prejudices,and those of his subjects? His mind was tinged with the most puerile superstition;the influence of the clergy, and the errors of the people, were consecrated by hislaws; and the oracles of Leo, which reveal, in prophetic style, the fates of the em­pire, are founded on the arts of astrology and divination. If we still inquire the rea­son of his sage appellation, it can onl v be replied* that the son of Basil was less igno­