OCR Output , .'. , \ i •: 772. atisfied with the answer, the fathers thought it suf- J3ient to proceed against the adultress. She was ba- Iished to the isle of Seriphos. The Egyptian and Iewish ceremonies were the next subject of debate.j a decree of the senate, four thousand of that de­ception, the descendants' of enfranchised slaves, allI ifected with foreign superstition, and of age to carry:i rms, were transported to the island of Sardinia, toMake war upon the freebooters, who plundered the[habitants, and ravaged the country. If the wholeumber died in that unwholesome climate, the loss, itas said, would be of no kind of moment. The re­naming sectaries were ordered, at a certain day, toepart out of Italy, unless before that time they re-ounced their impious worship.LXXXVI. The choice of a vestal virgin, in theoom of Occia, who had been, with the greatest sanc-ty of manners, president of the order during thepace of seven-and-fifty years, was by Tiberius re-jrred to the senate. Fonteius Agrippa, and Domi-tus Pollio, made each of them an offer of his daugh-3r. The emperor commended their zeal for the iublic service. The daughter of Pollio was preferred,ler mother had never known but one husband, and,till continuing to live with him, gave an example ofonjugal fidelity; whereas the divorce of Agrippa wasconsidered as a blemish in the family. That reason,tnd that only, determined the present choice. Theepulse of the disappointed candidate was softened byi present of a thousand great sesterces, granted byTiberius. LXXXVII. To appease the clamours of the peopleabout the exhorbitant price of corn, the sum to be jlaid by the purchaser was ascertained, Tiberius un­dertaking to grant a bounty of two sesterces on theneasure, as an encouragement to the vendor. Onthis, as on former occasions, he refused the title ofFather of his. Country. He even censured, with ,i degree of asperity, the zeal of those who gave him !the appellation of Lord and Master, and wanted to 1dignify his administration with the epithet bf Divine.In this manner, eloquence was confined within nar-