OCR Output 140 THE DECLINE AND FAIX chap. Justinian knelt; the Negus raised him from thexxxv- ground, embraced Nonnosus, kissed the seal, perusedthe letter, accepted the Roman alliance, and brandish­ing his weapons, denounced implacable war againstthe worshippers of fire. But the proposal of thesilk-trade was eluded; and notwithstanding the as­surances, and perhaps the wishes, of the Abyssinians,these hostile menaces evaporated without effect. TheHomerites were unwilling to abandon their aromaticgroves, to explore a sandy desert, and to encounter,after all their fatigues, a formidable nation fromwhom they had never received any personal injuries.Instead of enlarging his conquests, the king ofEthiopia was incapable of defending his possessions.Abrahah, the slave of a Roman merchant of Adulis,assumed the sceptre of the Homerites; the troops ofAfrica were seduced by the luxury of the climate;and Justinian solicited the friendship of the usurper,who honoured, with a slight tribute, the supremacyof his prince. After a long series of prosperity, thepower of Abrahah was overthrown before the gates ofMecca; his children were despoiled by the Persianconqueror; and the ^Ethiopians were finally expelledfrom the continent of Asia. This narrative of ob­scure and remote events is not foreign to the declineand fall of the Roman empire. If a Christian powerhad been maintained in Arabia, Mahomet must havebeen crushed in his cradle, and Abyssinia would haveprevented a revolution which has changed the civiland religious state of the world*. "The revolutions of Yemen in the sixth century must be collected from Pro-copius (Persic. 1.i.e. 19,20), Theophanes Byzant. (apud Phot . cod. lxiii. p. HO),St., Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 144, 145. 188, 189. 206, 207, who is full ofstrange blunders), Pocock (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 02.05), d'llerbelot (Bibliot.Orientale, p. 12. 477), and Sale's Preliminary Discourse and Koran (c. 105).The revolt of Abrahah, as mentioned by Procopius, is an historical fact.