OCR Output 722 ROMA. ROMA. sent. Dinnyshis (xu. 8) records a winter in whichthe snow lay more than 7 feet deep at Rome, whenhouses were destroyed and men and cattle perished.Another severe winter, if it be not the &ame, ismentioned bj I,ivy (v. 13) as occurring n.c. 398,when the Tiber mi frown over and tlie roads ren­dered impassable. (Cf. xl. 45, &c.) A very severewinter is also alluded to hy St. August in (de Civ.I hi. jii. 17). That such instances were rare, how­ever, appears from the minuteness with which theyare recorded. Yet there are many passages in theclassics which prove that a moderate degree of win­ter cold was not at all unusual, or rather that it wasof ordinary occurrence. Thus Pliny (xvii. 2) speaksof long snows as being beneficial to the corn; andallusions to winter will be found in Cicero (ad Qu.Fr. ii. 12), Horace (Oti i.9, iii. 10), Martial (iv. 18),anil in numerous other passages of ancient writers.At the present time the occurrence of even such adegree of cold as may he inferred from these passagesis extremely rare. One or two modem instances ofsevere winters are indeed recorded; but, generallyspeaking, snow seldom falls, and never lies long uponthe ground. This ciiange of climate is accountedfor by Dr. Arnold as follows: "Allowing that thepeninsular form of Italy must at all times have hadits effect in softening I he climate, still the woods andmarshes of Cisalpine Gaul, and the perpetual snowsof the Alps, tar more extensive than at present,owing to the uncultivated and uncleared state ofSwitzerland and Germany, could not but have beenfelt even in the neighbourhood of Home. Besides,even in the Apennines, and in Etruria and in Latiom,the forests occupied a far greater space than inmodern times; this would increase the quantity ofrain, and consequently the volume of water in therivers; the floods would l>e greater and more nume­rous, and before man's dominion had completely sub­dued the whole country, there would be a large ac­cumulation of water in the low grounds, which wouldstill further increase the coldness of the atmo­sphere." (Ifi-tt. cf Home, vol. i. p. 440.) But if the Roman climate is ameliorated with re­gard to the rigour of its winters, there is no reasonto believe that the same is the case with respect tothat unhealthy state of the atmosphere called ma­laria. In ancient times. Home itself appears to havebeen tolerably free from this pestilence, which wasconfined to certain tracts of the surrounding country.This may have been partly owing to its denserpopulation; for it is observed that in the morethickly inhabited districts of Rome there is evenat present but little malaria. Strabo, speakingLatium, observes that only a few spots nearthe coast were marshy and unwholesome (v. p.231), and a little further on gives positive testi­mony to the healthiness of the immediate neigh­bourhood of Rome (J$c(iys 5' far] ntftfa, to ^tv TTfJOi 'Puffl7)V ovvatnovTa koI TO vpudfTTfia. avr^r, rot S< Wpbi ttjv ^aKarrav ra fiev qZv rptistt\V idaAaTTar tjttoV 4<ttiv vytctvd, ra 5« &AAa cfaE I obvious that he meant just the reverse, — th£ i| shade of the hills secured their heahhinest. Llcan be inferred with regard to any perroaartf tItria from the altars which we are toki wen? esSto the goddesses Orbona and Febri* on the L*nsland in other places. (Cic. Ar. />. ii. 25; Pha,iValer. Max. ii. 5. § 6.) Even the most Inkspots are not always exempt from fevers, macs 1a populous city during the heats of autuma. 1climate of Rome is at present reckoned Q&fcalfrom June till October; but Horace dreadoi caljlautumnal heats. ( ii. 14. 15; SaL ii. &-IThe season is more accurately defined id his Efito Maecenas, where he places it at the npoas]the fig: — "dum ficus prima calorqueDes i gnat ore m decorat lictoribus atria,* (£p.LT.S In the same epistle (v. 10) he seems to exsssVa usual occurrence that the Alban fields raHcovered with snow in the winter. o| yceyd T€ Kal irapctTrAT/o-ia!? t^THtjudva, ib. p. 239).To the same purpose is the testimony of Livy, whorepresents Camillas describing the hills of Rome as"Baluberrimos colles:" and of Cicero (de Hep. ii. 6):"locutnqup delegit et fbntibns abundantem et in re-gione jH'stilenti sahihrem: colics enim sunt, qnj cumpertlantur ipsi, turn afVerunt umbram vallibus.'* Iti-. surprising how Becker (ffandhnrh, p. 82) can in-terpret Cicero's meaning in tins passage to be thatthe lower parts of Koine were unhealthy, when it is TART I. HISTORY OF THE CUT.I. Traditions respecting thk Forso±n OF K. 'VJ . The history of the foundation of Rome ts kthe darkness of remote antiquity. When thtfness of the city, and its progress in arts and Mawakened curiosity restarting its origin, arairecords on the subject, if indeed they bad ef*isted, were no longer to be found. Hence a iiof conjecture which has produced at the least a* Ithan twenty-five distinct legends respecting the Idation of Rome. To record all these, many at *are merely variations of the same story, wonHbeside the purpose of the present artiest. lstudent who desires a complete account of tfcaadfind them very clearly stated in Sir G. CantiLewis's Inquiry into the Credibility r-f tat 4Roman History (vol.L p.394.seq.). and also.**not so fully, in Niebuhr's History of AVmr (1TransL vol. i. p. 214, *eq.), chiefly derive*! frsdfollowing ancient sources: Diunys. Halve- i.m—74; Flut. RpWL 1, 2; Serrius, n.-i Firy. ai. 273; and Festus. $. r. Roma. The importof the subject, however, and the frequent aftito it in the classical writers, will one peraaslpass it over in perfect silence; and we shall the*mention, as compendiously as possible, sowae siprincipal traditions. All the theories on the subject may be redoflthree general heads, as follows :—I. That Boss!founded in the age preceding the Tnymn War.That it was founded by Aeneas, or other persfllittle after the fall of Troy. III. That Kasgrandson of Xumitor, king of Alba Langm* wsfounder, several centuries after the Trojan WsssMany who held the first of these opinions wmtthe building of Rome to the I' • x<gi, and Osithat its name was derived from the furcc (j^ptheir arms. (Hut. Rom. 1.) Others rngarias having been founded by an indi^eooast Vtribe, and called Valcntia, a name of the mtmport, which, after the arrival of Ermnder mMCreeks, was translated into Rome, (X'teba&r,vol. i. p. 214.) A more prevalent trad it«■either of the preceding was, that the city wmfounded hy the Arcadian Evander. about sixttbefore the Trojan War. The fact that £w