OCR Output ROMA. 761- r.onA. lata, till they reached the point opposite to thes>lt of the Janiculum. Of this hut portion onlylit fragments are now risible,"t the other side of the Tiher only a few tracestie ancient wall remain, which extended lowern the stream than the modem one. Not farm the river lay the Pokta Portuensis, which■aea VIIL destroyed in order to baild the present*-ti Pvrirse. This gate, like the Ostiensis andnceatuia, had two arches, and the same inscrip-b at that over the Tiburtina. From this pointi raS proceeded to the height of the Janicu-a, »here stood the Porta Ai-reua, so namedit the Via Anrelia (vetus) which issued from it.i tare already mentioned that its modern nameurto oV S. Pancrazio) waa in use as early as the • «/ Praropiiu ; yet the ancient one is found in theitmr.fxis of Einsiedlen, and even in the Liber der il<%Unm. The walla then again descended in a. India] to the river, to the point opposite to thatrare w« commenced this description, or betweenfirmest Palace and Ponte Sitto. It is singular • «■ di not find any gate mentioned in this portionrot. and we can hardly conceive that there shouldt bam no exit towards the Vatican. Yet neithernans (B. G. L 19, 23) nor the writers of thedm ages recognise any. We find, indeed, aaataerinr gate mentioned by Spartianus (Srrer.n Wilt by Septimius Severus, and named after Vjiniau); but it is plain that this couldbare been, originally at least, a city gate, asr were no wails at this part in the time of—a. Kc»ker conjectures (<fc Muru, p. 129,msV p. 214) that it was an archway belongingas* H'T*'"!; erected by Severus, and that it<- «*^o*nlly built into the wall by Aurclius orwaa; of the probability of which conjecture,t that it is never once mentioned by anym, ib* rcavier must judge. III. The CArrroL.to describe this prominent feature inipby of Koine, we are arrested on the■W u by a dispute respecting it which has longaad asd still continues to prevail, and upon.. trf« pn«eding any further, it will be ne-ry ts declare oar opinion. We have before dc-r-i jt Capi-.oline hill as presenting three natural.au. aaaadj, two summits, one at its NE. andsour at its SW. extremity, with a depressionra than, thus forming what is commonly calledlulls bar I; bill. Now the point in dispute is, - J ibrsr? summits was the Capitol, and whichL'xf Tbe unfortunate ambiguity with which tarsal are uxxl by the ancient writers, will, itW aasraa). prevent tbe possibility of ever IX- • at say complete and satisfactory solutione H asatiiwi Heme the conflicting opinions; Lair prevailed upon the subject, and whichrrveu rise to two different schools of topo-ar«. |«neraDy characterised at present as theas sad tbe Italian school There is, indeed, atuaa of writers, who hold that both the CapitolIrs trfmf**^ the same, or SW. summit; but ~*saif absurd theory has now so few ad-ca ifcat it will not be necessary to examine it.. m' rocapk-uuos scholars of the German school<'-bahr, and bis followers Bunscn, Becker,r —»* othrra; and these bold that the templeI ;~ Gaeab&ijus was seated on the SW. summit - till Tbe Italian view, which is directly contrary to Uiis, was first brought into vogue byXardini in the last century, and has since been heldby most Italian scholars and topographers. It isnet, however, so exclusively Italian but that it hasbeen adopted by some distinguished German scholars,among whom may be named Gbttling, and Braun,tbe present accomplished Secretary of the Archaeo­logical Institute at Rome. Every attempt to determine this question mustnow rest almost exclusively on the interpretation ofpassages in ancient authors relating totheCapitolincbill, and the inferences to be drawn from them;aitd tbe decision must depend on the preponderanceof probability on a comparison of these inferences.Hence the great importance of attending to a strictinterpretation of the expressions used by the classicalwriters will be at once apparent; and we shall there­fore preface the following inquiry by laying down afew general rules to guide our researches. Preller, who, in an able paper published in Schneidc-win's Philoltifftu, vol. i., has taken a very moderateand candid view of the question, consoles himself andthose who with him hold the German side, by re­marking that no passage can be produced from anancient and trustworthy writer in which Capitoliumis used as the name of the whole hill. But ifthe question turns on this point—and to a greatextent it certainly does — such passages may bereadily produced. To begin with Varro, who wasboth an ancient and a trustworthy writer. Ina passage where he is expressly describing the hillsof Rome, and which will therefore admit neither ofmisapprehension nor dispute, Varro says; "Scpti-montium nominatum ah tot montibu*, quos posteaurbs muris comprehendit, E quit Capitolium dictum,quod hie, quoin fundamenta fodcrentur aedis Jovis,caput hnmanum dicitur inventum. Hie mont anteTarpeius dictus," &c. (L.L. v. § 41, Mull.) HeroCapitolium can signify nothing but the Capitolinehill, just as Palatium in § S3 signifies the Palatine.In like manner Tacitus, in his description of theRomulean potnoeriuin before cited: "Furumque Ro-mauum et Capitolium non a Romulosed a Tito Tatioadditum urbi credidere" (Ann. xii. 24), where itwould he absurd to restrict the meaning of Capito­lium to the Capitol properly so called, for Tatiusdwelt on the Arx. So Livy in his narrative of theexploit of Uoratius Cocles: "Si transitum a tergoreliquissent, jam plus hostium in Palalio Capi-tolioque, quam in Janiculo, fore" (ii. 10), where itsunion with Palatium shows that the hill is meant; andthe same historian, in describing Romulus consecrat­ing tbe spolia opima to Jupiter Feretrius a couple ofcenturies before the Capitoline temple was founded,says, " in Capitolium escendit" (i. 10). The Greekwriters use to KawtrdAioy in the same man­ner: 'FuuiAot ulf to noAaTWF naT*xwv — TdrfOfti to KbwitwAiok. (Dionys. ii. 50.) Hence we de­duce as a first general rule that the term Capitoliumis sometimes used of the whole hill. Secondly, it may be shown that the whole hill,when characterised generally as the Roman citadel,was also called Arx: " Atque ut ita munitaarx cir-cumjectu arduo et quasi circumciso saxo niteretur, utetiam in ilia tempestate horribili Gallici adventus in-columis atquo intacta permanserit." (Cic. Hrp. ii. 6.)"Sp. Tarpeius Romanae praccrat arci." (Liv. i. 11.)But there is no need to multiply examples on thishead, which is plain enough. But, thirdly, we must observe that though the[ terms Capitolium and Arx are thus used generally