OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. voyages to the Persian Gulf, or the Cape of Good Hope:but their ancestors might equal the labours and successof the present race, and the sphere of their navigationmight extend from the isles of Japan to the straits ofMalacca, the pillars, if we may apply that name, of anOriental Hercules." Without losing sight of land, theymight sail along the coast to the extreme promontory ofAchin, which is annually visited by ten or twelve shipsladen with the productions, the manufactures, and eventhe artificers, of China ;' the island of Sumatra and theopposite peninsula, are faintly delineatedb as the regionsof gold and silver; and the trading cities named in thegeography of Ptolemy, may indicate, that this wealthwas not solely derived from the mines. The direct in­terval between Sumatra and Ceylon is about three hun­dred leagues; the Chinese and Indian navigators wereconducted by the flight of birds and periodical winds,and the ocean might be securely traversed in square-built ships, which, instead of iron, were sewed togetherwith the strong thread of the cocoa-nut. Ceylon, Se-rendib, or Taprobana, was divided between two hostile,princes;, one of whom possessed the mountains, theelephants, and the luminous carbuncle, and the otherenjoyed the more solid riches of domestic industry, fo­reign trade, and the capacious harbour of Trinquemale,which received and dismissed the fleets of the east andwest. In this hospitable isle, at an equal distance (as itwas computed) from their respective countries, the silkmerchants of China, who had collected in their voyages,aloes, cloves, nutmeg, andsantal wood, maintained a free * For the Chinese navigation to Malacoa and Achin, perhaps to Ceylon, see Re-naudot, (on the two Mahometan Travellers, p. 8—11. 13—17. 141—1.57.) Dampier,(vol. 2. p. 136.) the Hist. Philosophique des deux Indes, (lom. 1. p. 98,) and theHist. Generates des Voyages, (tom. 6. p. 201.) b The knowledge, or rather ignorance, of Strabo, Pliny, Ptolemy, Arrian, Marcian,&c. of the countries eastward of Cape Cnmorin, is finely illustrated by d'Anville(Antiquitd Geographique de I'lnde, especially p. 161—198.) Our geograpby ofIndia is improved by commerce and conquest ; and has been illustrated by the excel­lent maps and memoirs of Major Rennel. If he extends the sphere of his inquirieswith the same critical knowledge and sagacity, he will succeed, aud may surpass, thefirst of modern geographers.