OCR Output B. II. YEAR II. BEFORE CHRIST 430. . 153 ness began first to appear amongst the Athenians, such as wasreported to have raged before this in other parts, as aboutLemnos, and other places. Yet a plague so great as this, andso dreadful a calamity, in human memory could not be paral­lelled. The physicians at first coidd administer no relief,through utter ignorance ; nay, they died the fastest, the closertheir attendance on the sick, and all human art was totallyunavailing. Whatever supplications were offered in the tem­ples, whatever recourse to oracles and religious rites, all wereinsignificant; at last, expedients of this nature they totally re­linquished, overpowered by calamity. It broke out first, asit is said, in that part of Ethiopia which borders upon Egypt;it afterwards spread into Egypt and Lybia, and into great partof the king's dominions, and from thence it on a sudden fell onthe city of the Athenians. The contagion shewed itself firstin the Piraeus, which occasioned a report that the Peloponne-sians had caused poison to be thrown into the wells, for as yetthere were no fountains there. After this it spread into theupper city, and then the mortality very much increased. Letevery one, physician or not, freely declare his own sentimentsabout it; let him assign any credible account of its rise, orthe causes strong enough in his opinion to introduce so terri­ble a scene 1 shall only relate what it actually was, and, as from an information in all its symptoms, none may be quiteat a loss about it, if ever it should happen again, I shall give to medicina timore." The letters of Hippocrates, which mention this af­fair, are certainly spurious: The facts they would establish are without anygrounds, as Le Clerc hath proved to conviction in his Histoirc de la nude-cine, 1. 3. They make the plague to have broke out first in Europe, and tohave spread from thence into the dominions of the king of Persia. This isquite contrary to the account of Thucydides, and to the experience of eve­ry age. All plagues and infectious distempers have had their rise inAfrica. Need I say more than that Dr. Mead hath proved it ! But whe­ther his account of this plague at Athens be duly succinct, not too minute,serious, affecting ; and, whether Thucydides hath well managed the op­portunity it gave him to moralize like a man of virtue and good sense, everyreader will judge for himself. The transtator hath chiefly endeavoured topreserve that solemn air, which he thought the prime distinction of theoriginal. V