OCR Output 106 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. seven times seven years,* which in all arefifty years; and the fiftieth year is called bythe Hebrews the Jubilee. At that time debt­ors are freed from their debts, and slaves areset at liberty, which slaves became such,though they were of the same stock, by trans­gressing some of those laws whose punishmentwas not capital; but they were punished bythis method of slavery. This year also re­stores the land to its former possessors in thefollowing manner; when the jubilee is come,which name denotes liberty, he that sold theland, and he that bought it, meet together,and make an estimate on one hand of thefruits gathered, and on the other hand of theexpenses laid out upon it. If the fruits ga­thered come to more than the expenses laidout, he that sold it takes the land again; butif the expenses prove more than the fruits,the present possessor receives of the formerowner the difference that was wanting, andleaves the land to him: but if the fruits re­ceived, and the expenses laid out, proveequal, the present possessor relinquishes it tothe former owner. Moses would have thesame law obtain as to those houses also whichwere sold in villages: but he made a differ­ent law for such as were sold in a city; for ifhe that sold it tendered the purchaser hismoney again within a year, he was forced torestore it; but in case a whole year had in­tervened, the purchaser was to enjoy what hehad bought. This was the constitution of thelaws which Moses learned of God when thecamp lay under mount Sinai, and this he de­livered in writing to the Hebrews. Now when this settlement of laws seemedto be well over, Moses thought proper to takea review of the host, in order to settle theaffairs of war: so he charged the heads ofthe tribes, excepting the tribe of Levi, to takean exact account of the number of those whowere able to go to war; for as to the Levitesthey were holy, and free from all such bur­dens. Now, when the people had been num­bered, there were found six hundered thou­sand that were able to go to war, from twentyto fifty years of age, besides three thousandsix hundred and fifty. Instead of Levi, Mosestook Manasseh, the son of Joseph, among the * Levit. xxv. 1.t Book II. chap. 8. heads of tribes, and Ephraim instead of Jo­seph. It was indeed the desire of Jacobhimself to Joseph, that he would give him hissons to be his own by adoption,f as I have be­fore related. When they set up the tabernacle, they re­ceived it into the midst of their camp; threeof the tribes pitching their tents on each sideof it, and roads were cut through the midstof these tents. It was like a well appointedmarket, and every thing was there ready forsale in due order, and all sorts of artificerswere in the shops, and it resembled nothingso much as a city that sometimes was movea­ble, and sometimes fixed. The priests hadthe first places about the tabernacle; thenthe Levites, who, because their whole mul­titude was reckoned from thirty days old,were twenty-three thousand eight hundredand eighty males; and during the time thatthe cloud stood over the tabernacle, theythought proper to stay in the same place, assupposing that God there inhabited amongmen, but when that removed they journeyedalso.J Moses was also the inventor of the form ofthe Hebrew trumpet, which was made ofsilver. In length it was little less than a cu­bit. It was composed of a narrow tube, some­what thicker than a flute, but with so muchbreadth as was sufficient for admission of thebreadth of a man's mouth; it ended in theform of a bell, like common trumpets. Itssound was called, in the Hebrew tongue,assosra. There were two of them made; andwhen the first of them gave a signal, theheads of the tribes were to assemble, andconsult about the affairs to them properly be­longing: but when both of them sounded theycalled the multitude together, which wasdone when the tabernacle was to remove.When the second signal was given, those thatwere on the south quarter did the like. Inthe next place, the tabernacle was taken topieces, and was carried in the midst of sixtribes that went before, and of six that fol­lowed. Now all the Levites were about thetabernacle. When the third signal was given,that part which had their tents towards thewest put themselves in motion; and at the X Exod. xl. 36, 37.