OCR Output SYRACUSAE. 1067 SYRACUSAE. by Col. Leake); hut it is certain that at w«i erected there by Dionysius I.*, and the importance of this was sufficiently shown in thereign of Agatbocles, when the attack of Hamilcar of the roi:T KL'IIYALUS. a r«po!«ed by means of a strong garrison postedKuryalus, who attacked his army in flank, whilersnrinjr, to the attack of Kpipolae. (Diod. XX. 29.)Sne writers on the ti>pography of Syracuse havep»«r^i the fortress of AltmgiUUiri to be theMat liexapylum, and that Euryalus occupied thet of ftelrclrre, a knoll or hill on the ridge whichcontinued from MonyUxllisi inland, and forms anziunication with the table-land of the interior,t the hill of Btlrttiert, which is a mile distantm MimgibellUi, though somewhat more elevatedin the latter point, is connected with it only by a■row ridge, and is altogether too far from the1^-Lxnd of Kpipolae to have been of any import-re in connection with it; while the heights ofmgSbtUiti, as already observed, form the true keythat position. Moreover, all the passages thatite to Hexapylum, when attentively considered,:it to its position on the N. front of the heights,kittaf towards Megara and Thapsus; and Colonelike has satisfactorily shown that it was a fortstructed for the defence of the main approachSyracuse on this side; a road which then, asr, ascended the heights at a point a short distanceof the Seala Grtca, where a depression or breaklim line of cliffs affords a natural approach,war. Xote* on Sgraauc, pp. 258, 342, fee.)r gate at Hixapylum thus led, in the first in-n«e. into the suburb or quarter of Tycha, a:ansatmxuoe completely in accordance with, if notr«ariiy required by, a passage in Livy (xxiv.). where the two are mentioned in close cou-irm. It is more difficult to determine the exact position\t,i»A t.t-M, where the Athenians erected a fort■ins the siege of Syracuse. The name is notrw-t^oently mentioned in history, so that we liaveknowledge of its relation to the fortifications asy existed iu later times; and our only clue to its••mo is the description of Thucydides, that itid "on the summit of the cliffs of Kpipolae, Iook-t /wards Megara." It was probably situated (as1 by GSIler and Mr. Uruie) on the point ofms heights which forms a slightly projecting • This must have been the fort on Kpipolaem by Dion, which was then evidently held by a(Pint Dion. 29.) angle near the farmhouse now called Taryin. Itspurpose was, doubtless, to secure the communicationsof the Athenians with their fleet which lay atThapsus, as well as with the landing-place atLeon. It was not till the reign of the elder Dionysius(as we have already seen) that the heights ofKpipolae were included within the walls or forti­fications of Syracuse. Nor are we to suppose thateven after that time they became peopled like thorest of tho city. The object of the walls thenerected was merely to secure the heights againstmilitary occupation by an enemy. For that purposehe in B. c. 402 constructed a line of wall 30 stadiain length, fortified with numerous towers, and ex­tending along the whole N. front of the plateau,from the NW. angle of Achradina to the hill ofEuryalus. (Diod. xiv. 18.) The latter point mustat the 6anie time have been occupied with a strungfort. The north side of Kpipolae was thus securelyguarded; but it is singular that we hear of nosimilar defeuce for the S. side. There is no doubtthat this was ultimately protected by a wall of thesame character, as the remains of it may be traced allaround the edge of the plateau j but the period of itsconstruction is uncertain. The portion of the cliffsextending from Euryalus to Neapolis may have beenthought sufficiently strong by nature; but this wasnot the case with the slope toxvards Neapolis, whichwas easily accessible. Yet this appears to havecontinued the weakest side of the city, as in B. c.396 Himilco was able to plunder the temples in thesuburb of Temenitis with apparently little difficulty.At a later period, however, it is certain from exist­ing remains, that not only was there a line of forti­fications carried along the upper escarpment as faras Neapolis, but an outer line of walls was carriedround that suburb, which was now included for allpurposes as part of the city. Strabo reckons thewhole circuit of the walls of Syracuse, including thofortifications of Epipolae, at 180 stadia (Strab. vi.p. 270); but this statement exceeds the truth, theactual circuit being about 14 English miles, or 122stadia. (Leake, p. 279.) It only remains to notico briefly the differentlocalities in the immediate neighbourhood of Syra­cuse, which are noticed by ancient writers in con­nection with that city. Of these the most important