OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 195 consuls ; and it is mentioned that Volumnius was em­ployed at the time in Samnium ; that he compelled thearmy of the Samnites to retreat to Mount Tifernus,and not retarded by the difficulty of the ground routedand dispersed them. Quintus Fabius, leaving Decius'army in Etruria, and leading off his own legions to thecity, triumphed over the Gauls, Etrurians, and Sam­nites, the soldiers attending his triumph. These, intheir coarse military verses, celebrated not morehighly the conduct of Quintus Fabius, than the illus­trious death of Publius Decius ; recalling to memoryhis self-immolated father, of whom the son might beconsidered as a glorious counterpart, in respect of theissue which resulted both to himself and to the public.Out of the spoil donations were made to the soldiersof eighty-two asses1 to each, with cloaks and vests;rewards for service, which in that age were far fromcontemptible. 31. Notwithstanding these successes, peace was notyet established, either among the Samnites or Etru­rians : for the latter, at the instigation of the Peru-sians, resumed their arms as soon as the consul hadwithdrawn his troops ; and the Samnites made preda­tory incursions on the territories of Vescia and For-miaj; and also on the other side, on those of jEsernia,and the parts adjacent to the river Vulturnus. Againstthese was sent the pretor Appius Claudius, with thearmy formerly commanded by Decius. In Etruria,Fabius, on the revival of hostilities, slew four thou­sand five hundred of the Perusiaus, and took prisonersone thousand seven hundred and forty, who were ran­somed at the rate of three hundred and ten asses3 each.All the rest of the spoil was bestowed on the soldiers.The legions of the Samnites, though pursued, some bythe pretor Appius Claudius, the others by Lucius Vo­lumnius, proconsul, formed a junction in the countryof the Stellatians. Here sat down, on one side, thewhole body of the Samnites ; and on the other, Ap- 1 5». S}d. * U.