OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. given them leave, they also hid the circumcision of their geni­tals, that even when they were naked, they might appear to beGreeks. Accordingly they left off all the customs that belongedto their own country, and imitated the practices of the othernations. 2. Now Antiochus, upon the agreeable situation of the affairsof his kingdom, resolved to make an expedition against Egypt,both because he had a desire to gain it, and because he contemnedthe son of Ptolemy, as now weak, and not yet of abilities to man­age affairs of such consequence; so he came with great forcesto Pelusium, and circumvented Ptolemy Philometer by treach­ery, and seized upon Egypt. He then came to the places aboutMemphis; and when he had taken them, he made haste toAlexandria, in hopes of taking it by siege, and of subduing Pto­lemy, who reigned there. But he was driven not only fromAlexandria, but out of all Egypt, by the declarations of the Ro­mans, who charged him to let that country alone; accordingas I have elsewhere formerly declared. I will now give a par­ticular account of what concerns this king, how he subdued Ju-dea and the temple; for in my former work I mentioned thosethings very briefly, and have therefore now thought it necessaryto go over that history again, and that with greater accuracy. 3. * King Antiochus returning out of Egypt, for fear of theRomans, made an expedition against the city Jerusalem; andwhen he was there, in the hundred forty and third year of thekingdom of the Seleucidae, he took the city without fighting,those of his own party opening the gates to him. And whenhe had gotten possession of Jerusalem he slew many of theopposite party; and when he had plundered it of a great deal ofmoney, he returned to Antioch. 4. Now it came to pass, after two years, in the hundred fortyand fifth year, on the twenty-fifth day of that month, which isby us called Chasleu, and by the Macedonians Apelleus, in thehundred and fifty-third olympiad, that the king came up to Je­rusalem, and pretending peace, he got possession of the city bytreachery: at which time he spared not so much as those that uncircumcised Gentiles, these Jewish apostates endeavoured to appear uncircumcised,by means of a ehirurgical operation, hinted at by St. Paul, 1 Cor. vii. 18. and de­scribed by Celsus, B. VII. chap. xxv. as Dr. Hudson here informs us. * Hereabouts Josephus begins to follow the first book of the Maccabees, a mostexcellent and most authentic history; and accordingly it is here, with great fidelityand exactness, abridged by him; between whose present copies there seem to be fewervariations than in any other sacred Hebrew book of the Old Testament whatsoever,(for this book also was originally written in Hebrew), which it very natural, becauseit was written so much nearer to the times of Josephus than the rest were.