OCR Output 462 lf ITtTS LIVIUS' BOOK V. suited together, what sacred things they should carryaway, and as they could not take the whole, what theyshould leave behind, <md where these precious depositsmight be roost safely lodged. At last, they concludedit would be best to pack them in small casks, and burythem in a chapel, next to the house of the priest of Ko-mulus, where now h is reckoned'unlawful to spit. Whatwas to be carried away, they divided among them, andeach with his burden, took the road by the bridge, Sul--picius leading to the Janiculum. As L. Albinus, a Plebeian, was drawing his wife andchildren in a waggon, among the rest of the crowd, whocould hare been of no use in the defence of the city, beobserving the vestals on the side of a hill, notwithstand­ing the necessity of the times, forgot not the respect dueto things divine; for thinking it most preposterous thathe should be seen in a carriage with his family, whilstthe public priests of the Roman people were on foot,carrying the sacred things, he ordered out hi* wife andchildren, and placing the vestals with their sacred bur­dens in the waggon, drove them to Caere, the place oftheir destination. ., "';: .CHAP. XLI. ., Retolution and massacre of the aged Senators. N the mean time, every thing for the' defence of theditadel being disposed at Rome, in the best manner pos-sib]ei considering the present exigency, the venerablecompany of superannuated patriots returned to theirhoused, there to wait, with steady resolution, the comingof the enemy, and deith. Such of them as had bornecurule magistracies, that they might die adorned withthe ensigns of their former dignity, honours, and gal­lantry, dressed themselves in their most magnificent robes,which they used to wear in the procession of their gods,and in their triumphs, seating themselves in their ivorychairs in the middle of their halls. We find in someauthors, that these ancients first devoted themselves fortheir country, and the Roman'people, by a vow whichM. Fabius, the high priest, administered in form. The Gauls, as the intervention of a whole night had