OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 21 hitants, about thirty thousand males, condensed, within the period of a single life,the genius of ages and millions. Our sense of the dignity of human nature is ex­alted by the simple recollection, that Isocrates(l) was the companion of Plato andXenophon; that he assisted, perhaps with the historian Thucydides, at the firstrepresentations of the CEdipus of Sophocles and the Iphigenia of Euripides; and thathis pupils jEschines and Demosthenes contended for the crown of patriotism inthe presence of Aristotle, the master of Theophrastus, who taught at Athens withthe founders of the Stoic and Epicurean sects. (2) The ingenious youth of Atticaenjoyed the benefits of their domestic education, which was communicated withoutenvy to the rival cities. Two thousand disciples heard the lessons of Theophras­tus;^) the schools of rhetoric must have been still more populous than those ofphilosophy; and a rapid succession of students diffused the fame of their teachers,as far as the utmost limits of the Grecian language and name. Those limits wereenlarged by the victories of Alexander; the arts of Athens survived her freedomand dominion; and the Greek colonies, which the Macedonians planted in Egypt,and scattered over Asia, undertook long and frequent pilgrimages to worship theMuses in their favourite temple on the banks of the Ilissus. The Latin conquerorsrespectfully listened to the instructions of their subjects and captives; the namesof Cicero and Horace were enrolled in the schools of Athens; and, after the perfectsettlement of the Roman empire, the natives of Italy, of Africa and of Britain, con­versed in the groves of the academy with their fellow-students of the east. Thestudies of philosophy and eloquence are congenial to a popular state, which en­courages the freedom of inquiry, and submits only to the force of persuasion. Inthe republics of Greece and Rome, the art of speaking was the powerful engine ofpatriotism or ambition; and the schools of rhetoric poured forth a colony of states­men and legislators. When the liberty of public debate was suppressed, th« ora­tor in the honourable profession of an advocate, might plead the cause of innocenceand justice; he might abuse his talents in the more profitable trade of panegyric; andthe same precepts continued to dictate the fanciful declamations of the sophist, andthe chaster beauties of historical composition. The systems, which professed to un­fold the nature of God, of man, and of the universe, entertained the curiosity of thephilosophic student; and, according to the temper of his mind, he might doubt withthe sceptics, or decide with the Stoics, sublimely speculate with Plato, or severe­ly argue with Aristotle. The pride of the adverse sects had fixed an unattainableterm of moral happiness and perfection; but the race was glorious and salutary;the disciples of Zeno, and even those of Epicurus, were taught both to act and tosuffer; and the death of Petronius was not less effectual than that of Seneca, tohumble a tyrant by the discovery of his impotence. The light of science couldnot indeed be confined within the walls of Athens. Her incomparable writersaddress themselves to the human race; the living masters emigrated to-Italy andAsia; Berytus, in later times, was devoted to the study of the law; astronomy andphysic were cultivated in the museum of Alexandria; but the Attic schools ofrhetoric and philosophy maintained their superior reputation from the Peloponne-sian war to the reign of Justinian. Athens, though situated in a barren soil,possessed a pure air, a free navigation, and the monuments of ancient art. Thatsacred retirement was seldom disturbed by business of trade, or government; andthe last of the Athenians were distinguished by their lively wit, the purity of theirtaste and language, their social manners, and some traces, at least in discourse, ofthe magnanimity of their fathers. In the suburbs of the city, the academy of thePlatohists the lyceum of the Peripatetics, the /wrtico of the Stoics and the gardenof the Epicureans, were planted with trees and decorated with statues: and thephilosophers, instead of being immured in a cloister, delivered their instructionsin spacious and pleasant walks, which, at different hours, were consecrated to theexercises of the mind and body. The genius of the founders still lived in thosevenerable seats; the ambition of succeeding to the masters of human reason, ex­cited a generous emulation; and the merit of the candidates was determined, on.each vacancy, by the free voices of an enlightened people. The Athenian pro­fessors were-paid by their disciples: according to their mutual wants and abilities, (1) The life of Isocrates extends from Olymp. 86. 1. to 110. 3. (ante Christ. 436—433.) Sec Dionys. Halicarn,torn. ii. p. 149,150. edit. Hudson; Plutarch (live anonymous)in Vit. X. Oratorutn, p. 1538—1543, edit, H. Steph.Phot. Cod. 259. p. 1453. (8) Theschoolsof Athens are copiously, though concisely, represented in the Fortuna Attica of Meunius.(c. viii. p. 52—73. in torn. i. Opp.) For the state and arts of the city, see the first book of Pausanias, and a smalltimet of Diesearchus (in the second volume of Hudson's Geographers,) who wrote about Olymp. 117. DodweH'c,Dissertat. sect. (3) Diogen. Laert. de Vit. Philosoph. L T. iegro. 37. p. 289.