OCR Output 182 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. ment and despair, the Goths abandoned the siege ofRimini, their tents, their standards, and their leaders;and Vitiges, who gave or followed the example of flight,Retire to never halted till he found a shelter within the walls and Ravenna. c -n morasses or Kavenna.Jealonsy of To these walls, and to some fortresses destitute ofgralnis*" any mutual support, the Gothic monarchy was now re-a. d. 538. duced. The provinces of Italy had embraced the partyof the emperor; and his army, gradually recruited tothe number of twenty thousand men, must have achievedan easy and rapid conquest, if their invincible powershad not been weakened by the discord of the Romanchiefs. Before the end of the siege, an act of blood,ambiguous and indiscreet, sullied the fair fame of Beli-sarius. Presidius, a loyal Italian, as he fled from Ra­venna to Rome, was rudely stopped by Constantine, themilitary governor of Spoleto, and despoiled, even in achurch, of two daggers richly inlaid with gold and pre­cious stones. As soon as the public danger had sub­sided, Presidius complained of the loss and injury: hiscomplaint was heard, but the order of restitution wasdisobeyed by the pride and avarice of the offender. Ex­asperated by the delay, Presidius boldly arrested thegeneral's horse as he passed through the Forum; and,with the spirit of a citizen, demanded the common bene­fit of the Roman laws. The honour of Belisarius wasengaged; he summoned a council; claimed the obedi­ence of his subordinate officer; and was provoked, by aninsolent reply, to call hastily for the presence of hisguards. Constantine, viewing their entrance as thesignal of death, drew his sword, and rushed on the ge­neral, who nimbly eluded the stroke, and was protectedby his friends; while the desperate assassin was disarm­ed, dragged into a neighbouring chamber, and executed,or rather murdered, by the guards, at the arbitrary corn-Death of mand of Belisarius.c In this hasty act of violence, the Constan­tine. « This transaction is related in the public history (Goth. lib. 2. o. 8.) with candour