OCR Output W2 PALAESTTXA.PALAESTINA. who are least given to the pursuit of agriculture.Every part, of it, therefore, has been put undercultivation by the inhabitants, ami none of it liesidle; but it possesses numerous cities and multi­tudes "t" villages, all densely populated on accountof its fertility, so that the smallest of them hasin.He than 15 ,U0 J inhabitants. Peraaa.—" On the whole, then, although Galilee isinferior to Prraea in extent, yet it is superior to it instrength. For the former is all under cultivation,and productive in every part; but Peraea, althoughmuch more exten>ive, is for the most part ruggedand barren, and too wild for the culture of tenderproduce. Nevertheless, wherever the soil is soft itis very prMueiive; and the plains are covered withvarious trees (the greater part is planted with olives,vine-,, and palms), and watered by mountain tor­rents, and |>emiiiial wells sufficient to supply waterwhenever the mountain streams are dried up bythe heat. Its greatest length is from Machaerftsto Pella, and its breadth from Philadelphia to theJordan. It is bounded on the north by Pella, whichwe have mentioned; on the west by the Jordan.Its southern boundary is Moabitis, and its easternis Arabia and Silbonitis, and also Philadclpheneand Gerasa. Samaria. —" The country of Samaria lies betweenJitdaea and Galilee ; for beginning at the village calledGvuu-a, situated in the great plain, it ends at thetoparchy of Aerabatta: its character is in no res[x:ctdifferent from thatof Judaea,for both abound in moun­tains and plains, and are suited for agriculture, andproductive, wooded, and full of fruits both wild andcultivated. They are not abundantly watered; butmuch rain falls there. The springs are of anexceedingly sweet taste; and, on account of thequantity of good grass, the cattle there producemore milk than elsewhere. But the best proof oftheir richness and fertility is that both are thicklypopulated. Jwlaea. —,; On 'he confines of the two countriesstands the village Annath, otherwise called Boreeos,the boundary of Judaea on the north. The south ofit, when measured by length, is bounded by a village,which stands on the c<»nlines of Arabia, called bythe neighboring Jews Jardan. In breadth it extendsfrom the Jordan to Joppa, and in the centre ofit lies the city Jerusalem; for which cause thecity is called by some, not without reason, the navelof the earth. Judaea is not deprived of the advan­tages of the sea, as it extends along the sea-coast toPtolemais. It is divided into eleven districts, ofwhich Jerusalem, as the seat of government, rules,taking precedence over tlie surrounding country asthe head over the body. The other districts, afterit, are distributed by toparchies. Gophna is second;after that, Aerabatta, then Tharnna, Lydda, Am-m:iu.i, Pella, Munmea, Knsraddae, Hcrodcum, Jeri-chus; then Jamnia and Joppa, winch take precedenceof the neighbouring country. "Be>iles these districts, there are Gamalitica andGaulanitis, Batauaea, and Traehonitis, parts of thekingdom of Agrippa. Beginning from Mount Li-banus and the source of the Jordan, this countryreaches in breadth to the lake of 1 iberias: its lengthis, from a village called Arpha to Julias. It is in­habited by Jews and Syrians mixed. "Thus wo have given an account, as short as waspossible, of Judaea and the neighbouring regions." Besides this general description of the countryaccording to its divisions in the first century of the Christian era, Josephus has iaserted in his V:.-v--yspecial descriptions of several towns and <]>:-: :,with details of great geographical interest vs-. ■im­portance. The>e, however, w ill be found, for the b«Spart, under their several names, in these t<-i^mn[AriLox; Basiian; Esdkaflox Valus: Btu*Jericho; Jerusalem; Tiberias il.\RE,&c] As the division of Gabiniua does not apt.* (have had a permanent influence, it may be t&kimto notice it, before disuiissing Josephus wbo is Nsole authority for it. He informs us that tiir K -general having defeated Alexander the wn of A:stobulus, and pacified the country, constituted mcouncils (<rvv*8pta) in various parts of tb* cou&*which he distributed into so many eqail diTWfl(uoi'pav). These seats of judicature were Jerosi>eGadara, Amathus, Jericho, and SepphorU iniixih(Ant. xiv. 5. § 4.) In the division of the rartamong the sons of ilerod the Great., Judaea. Warn(i.e., in the language of Josephus, the soctMpart of Judaea), with Samaria, were is^i?;*!Archelaus, with the title of ethnarch. Amif»*tiGalilee and Pernea, with the title of trtranh. JPhilip, with the same title, Tracbonitia, AaraialBatanaea, and Paneas, mostly without the In itsPalestine [rid. *. ft.]. (AnL xvii. 13. § 4.) Oa<disgrace and banishment of Arehelaus, in th# 1'year of his rein'n, his government was ad.;rJ vprovince of Syria, and administered by a procansubordinate to the prefect of Syria.; the n.;■■<.■!attended the tetrarchy of Philip on his death lbtwentieth year of Tiberius, until it wis co r u/ 'MHenni Agrippa by Caius Caligula, with the ttffcking, to which was added the tetrarchy of I.ysHand subsequently, on the banishment of Ant^pa*.tetrarchy also; to which Claudius add so 1*1Judaea and Samaria, so that his kingdom eqttin extent that of his grandfather Heroi ih*On his death, his son, who was but sev-nvrij 1old, was thought too young to succewi him. addominions reverted to the province of Syria tiathe death of Herod king ot Chalcis, that countrycommitted to the younger Agrippa. which wa« Iwards exchanged for the tetrarthies of PhuaLy&anias, to which Nero Added the part of Giabout the sea of Tiberias, and Julias in theAfter his death, in the third year of Trajan, imno further mention of the tetrarchies (fej^lae-ftina, lib. i. cap. 30, pp. 174. 175.) The division into toparchies, nieEti*«iJosephus, is recognised also by Pliny, tboagtalists do not exactly coincide. Pliny reck -fas!us follows: — 1. Jericho. 7. Tharnna. 2. Einmaus. 8. Bt-thkptapLeoe. 3. Lydda. 9. Oreioe ^in wcjd 4. Joppa. Jerusalem.) 5. Acrabata. 10. Herodiam. 6. Gophna. Of these 8 and 9 are not reckon**! by Jo£?;-b«lKeland is probably correct in his cvfyt-ciar* tis identical with his Pella, and 9 with hi* Ijbas this district may well be described a* *mountainout, (Plin. Hist. NaL v. 14.) The other notices of Pliny are tew and trarm*but agree in all essential particular* with ttachronuus but independent account of Job<p^iwcited. Its geography had undergone little rariaUtfPtolemy wrote in the following crnturr, *:brief notices of that geographer areas acemi