OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 65 stroyed in accordance with the treaty; the war-marine ofEgypt, once so powerful, was under its present indolentrulers in deep decay. The minor states, and particularly themercantile cities, had perhaps some armed transports; butthese were not even adequate for the task—so difficult in theMediterranean—of repressing piracy. This task necessa- Piracy,rily devolved on Rome as the leading power in the Mediter­ranean. • While a century previously the Romans had comeforward in this matter with especial and salutary vigour,and had in particular introduced their supremacy in theEast by a maritime police energetically handled for thegeneral good (ii. 73), the complete nullity of this police atthe very beginning of this period is a distinct indication ofthe fearfully rapid decline of the aristocratic government.Rome no longer possessed a fleet of her own; she wascontent to make requisitions for ships, when it seemednecessary, from the maritime towns of Italy, Asia Minor, andelsewhere. The consequence naturally was, that buceaueer-ing became organized and consolidated. Something perhaps,though not enough, was done towards its suppression,so far as the direct power of the Romans extended, in theAdriatic and Tyrrhene seas. The expeditions directedagainst the Dalmatian and Ligurian coasts at this epochaimed more especially at the suppression of piracy in thetwo Italian seas; for the same reason the Balearic islandswere occupied in 631 (P. 19). But in the Mauretanian and 123Greek waters the inhabitants along the coast and themariners were left to settle matters with the corsairs in oneway or another, as they best could; for Roman policy ad­hered to the principle of troubling itself as little as possibleabout these more remote regions. The disorganized andbankrupt commonwealths in the states along the coast thusleft to themselves naturally became places of refuge for thecorsairs; and there was no waut of such, more especially inAsia. A bad pre-eminence in this respect belonged to Crete, Crete,which, from its favourable situation and the weakness orlaxity of the great states of the West and East, was the onlyone of all the Greek settlements that had preserved its inde­pendence. Roman commissioners doubtless came and wentto the island, but accomplished still less there than they dideven in Syria and Egypt. It seemed almost as if fate hadleft liberty to the Cretans only in order to show what was vol. in. F