OCR Output OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. dain his diminutive planet and momentary existence. The costly instruments ofobservation were supplied by the caliph Almamon, and the land of the Chaldeansstill afforded the same spacious level, the same unclouded horizon. In the plainsof Sinaar, and a second time in those of Cufa, his mathematicians accurately mea­sured a degree of the great circle of the earth, and determined at twenty-fourthousand miles the entire circumference of our globe. (1) From the reign of theAbbassides to that of the grand-children of Tamerlane, the stars without the aidof glasses, were diligently observed; and the astronomical tables(2) of Bagdad,Spain, and Samarcand, correct some minute errors, without daring to renouncethe hypothesis of Ptolemy, without advancing a step towards the discovery of thesolar system. In the eastern courts, the truths of science could be recommendedonly by ignorance and folly, and the astronomer would have been disregarded,had he not debased his wisdom or honesty by the vain predictions of astrology. (3)But in the science of medicine, the Arabians have been deservedly applauded.The names of Mesua and Geber, of Hazis and Avicenna, are ranked with theGrecian masters: in the city of Bagdad, eight hundred and sixty physicians werelicensed to exercise their lucrative profession:(4) in Spain, the life of the catholicprinces was intrusted to the skill of the Saracens,(5) and the school of Salerno,with their legitimate offspring revived in Italy and Europe the precepts of thehealing art. (6) The success of each professor must have been influenced by per­sonal and accidental causes; but we may form a less fanciful estimate of their ge­neral knowledge of anatomy,(7) botany,(8) and chemistry,(9) the three-fold basisof their theory and practice. A superstitious reverence for the dead confined boththe Greeks and the Arabians to the dissection of apes and quadrupeds; the moresolid and visible parts were known in the time of Galen, and the finer scrutiny ofthe human frame was reserved for the microscope and the injections of modernartists. Botany is an active science, and the discoveries of the torrid zone mightenrich the herbal of Dioscorides with two thousand plants. Some traditionaryknowledge might be secreted in the temples and monasteries of Egypt; much use­ful experience had been acquired in the practice of arts and manufactures; butthe science of chemistry owes its origin and improvement to the industry of the Sa­racens. They first invented and named the alembic for the purposes of distilla­tion, analyzed the substances of the three kingdoms of nature; tried the distinctionand affinites of alkalis and acids, and converted the poisonous minerals into softand salutary medicines. But the most eager search of Arabian chemistry was thetransmutation of metals, and the elixir of immortal health: the reason and the for­tunes of thousands were evaporated in the crucibles of alchymy, and the consum­mation of the great work was promoted by the worthy aid of mystery, fable, andsuperstition. But the Moslems deprived themselves of" the principal benefits of a familiar in­tercourse with Greece and Rome, the knowledge of antiquity, the purity of taste,and the freedom of thought. Confident in the riches of their native tongue, the (1) Ahulfeda (Annal. Modem, p. 210, 211. vers. Reiske) describes this operation according to Ibn Chalecau•nd the best histurinns. This degree most accurately contains two hundred thousand royal or Hathemite cu­bits, which Arabia had derived from the sacred and legal practice hnlh of Palestine and Egypt. This ancientcubit is repeated four hundred times in each basis of the great pyramid, and seems to indicate the primitive unciuniversal measures of the east. See the Metrologie of the laborious M. Paucton, p. 101—105.r' (2) See the Astronomical Tables of TJlugh Begh, with the preface of Dr. Hyde, in the first volume of LisSyntagma Dissertationum, Oxon. 1767. (3) The truth of astrology wis allowed by Albumazar, and the best of the Arabian astronomers, who drewtheir most certain predictions, not from Venus and Mercury, but from Jupiter and the sun. (Abulpharag.Dynast, p. 161—16».) For Use state and science of the Persian astronomers, see Cliardin. (Voyages en Perse,torn. iii. p. 162—203.) (4) Biblior. Aribico-IIispana, torn. i. 'p. 438. The original relates a pleasant tale, of an ignorant but harmlesspractitioner. (5) In the year 056, Sancho the Fat, king of Leon was cured by the physicians of Cordova. (Mariana, lib.viii. c. 7. torn. i. p. 318.) (6) The school of Salemo, and the introduction of the Arabian sciences into Italy, are discussed with learn­ing and judgment by Muratori, (A ntiquitat. Italia; Medii £vi, torn. iii. p. 932—940.) and Giannone. (IstoriaCtvili di Napoli, torn. ii. p. 119—127.) (7) See a good view of the progress of anatomy in Wotton. (Reflections on ancient and modern Learning, p.208—2J6.) Hit repulation has been unworthily depreciated by the wits in the controversy of Boyle and Bent-ley. (8) Bibliot. Arab. Hispana, torn. i. p. 275. Al Beithar of Malaga, their greatest botanist, had travelled into Af­rica, Persia, and India. (o) Dr. Watson (Elements of Chemistry, vol. i. p. 17. &c.) allows the original merit of the Arabians. Vet hequotes the modest confession of the famous Geber of the ninth century, (d'Herbelot, p. SI7.) that he had drawnmost of his science, perhaps of the transmutaiion of metals, from the ancient sages. Whatever might he theorigin or extent of their knowledge, the arts of chemistry and alchymy appear to have been known in Egypt atleast tliree hundred years before Mahomet. (Wotton's Reflections, p. 121—153. Paow, Recherches sur leiUgTptiens tt let Chinois, torn. \. p. 376—429.)