OCR Output 112 LIVY. sides of the defiles, the roads being dangerous to eitherparty. Then the Samnites, making a short circuitthrough an open tract, marched down their troops intolevel ground in the Campanian plains, and there thehostile camps first came within view of each other.Both armies then made trial of their strength in slightskirmishes, more frequently between the horse thanthe foot; and the Romans were no way displeasedeither at the issue of these, or at the protraction ofthe war. The Samnite generals, on the contrary, wereuneasy that their battalions should be weakened dailyby small losses, and the general vigor abated by inac足tion. They therefore marched into the field, disposingtheir cavalry on both wings, with orders to give moreheedful attention to the camp behind than to the bat足tle ; for that the line of infantry would be able to pro足vide for their own safety. The consuls took post, Sul-picius on the right wing, Petilius in the left. Theright wing was stretched out wider than usual; theSamnites also on that side being formed in thin ranks,either with design of turning the flank of the enemy,or to avoid being themselves surrounded. On the left,besides that they were formed in more compact order,an addition was made to their strength by a suddenact of the consul Petilius: for the subsidiary cohorts,which were usually reserved for the exigences of atedious fight, he brought up immediately to the front,'and, in the first onset, pushed the enemy with thewhole of his force. The Samnite line of infantry givingway, their cavalry advanced to support them ; and, asthey were charging in an oblique direction betweenthe two lines, the Roman horse coming up at fullspeed, disordered their battalions and ranks of infantryand cavalry, so as to oblige the whole line on that sideto give ground. The left wing bad not only the pre足sence of Petilius to animate them, but that of Sulpi-cius likewise ; who, on the shout being first raised inthat quarter, rode thither from his own division, whichhad not yet engaged. When he saw victory no longerdoubtful there, he returned to his own post with twelve