OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE.'' 4% Christians were desirous of making themselves either agreeableor useful. • . i .');.'.. 1 .: The acquisition of knowledge, the exercise of our reason or fancy, Theprimi-and the cheerful flow of unguarded conversation, may employ condem"the leisure of a liberal mind. They were rejected however with flTur""ndabhorrence, or admitted with the utmost caution, by the severity ofthe fathers, who despised all knowledge that was not useful to sal­vation, and who considered all levity of discourse as a criminalabuse of the gift of speech. In our present state of existence, thebody is so inseparably connected with the soul, that it seems tobe our interest to taste, with innocence and moderation, the enjoy­ments of which that faithful companion is susceptible. Verydifferent was the reasoning of our devout predecessors; vainlyaspiring to imitate the perfection of angels, they disdained, or theyaffected to disdain, every earthly and corporeal delight ,<S. Someof our fenses indeed are necessary for our preservation, others forour subsistence, and others again for our information, and thusfar it was impossible to reject the use of them. The first sensationof pleasure was marked as the first moment of their abuse. Theunfeeling candidate for Heaven was instructed, not only to resistthe grosser allurements of the taste or smell, but even to shut hisears against the profane harmony of sounds, and to view withindifference the most finished productions of human art; gayapparel, magnificent houses, and elegant furniture, were supposedto unite the double guilt of pride and of sensuality. A simpleand mortified appearance was more suitable to the Christian whowas certain of his sins and doubtful of his salvation. In theircensures of luxury, the fathers are extremely minute and cir­cumstantial 87; and among the various articles which excite theirpious indignation, we may enumerate false hair, garments of anycolour except white, instruments of music, vases of gold or silver,downy pillows (as Jacob reposed his head on a stone), white bread/ Qji q 2 foreign