OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 257 Strabo of Cappadocia mentions this present in these words:"There came also an embassage out of Eygpt, and a crown of"the value of four thousand pieces of gold, and out of Judea"there came another, whether you call it a vine or a garden:"They called the thing TERPULE, The delight. However, we"ourselves saw that present reposited at Rome, in the temple"of Jupiter Capitolinus, with this inscription, The gift of Alex-"ander the king of the Jews. It was valued at five hundred"talents; and the report is, that Aristobulus, the governor of"the Jews, sent it." 2. In a little time afterward came ambassadors again to him,Antipater from Hyrcanus, and Nicodemus from Aristobulus;which last also accused such as had taken bribes, first Gabinius,and then Scaurus, the one three hundred talents, and the otherfour hundred; by which procedure he made these two his ene足mies, besides those he had before. And when Pompey had or足dered those that had controversies one with another to come tohim in the beginning of the spring, he brought his army out oftheir winter quarters, and marched into the country of Damas足cus; and as he went along he demolished the citadel that wasat Apamia, which Antiochus Cyzicenus had built, and tookcognizance of the country of Ptolemy Menneus, a wicked man,and not less so than Dionysius of Tripoli, who had been be足headed, who was also his relation by marriage; yet did he buyoff the punishment of his crimes for a thousand talents, witliwhich money Pompey paid the soldiers their wages. He alsoconquered the place called Lysias, of which Silas a Jew, wastyrant. And when he had passed over the cities of Helio-polis and Chalcis, and got over the mountain which is onthe .limit of Celesyria, he came from Pella to Damascus; andthere it was that he heard the causes of the Jews, and of theirgovernors Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, who were at differenceone with another, as also of the nation against them both,which did not .desire to be under kingly government, becausethe form of government they received from their forefatherswas that of subjection to the priests of that God whom theyworshipped, and [they complained,] that though these twowere the posterity of priests, yet did they seek to change thegovernment of their nation to another form, in order to enslavethem. Hyrcanus complained, that although he were the elderbrother, he was deprived of the prerogative of his birth by Pompey, they are both very improbable, and no way agreeable to Josephus, whowould hardly have avoided the recording both ihese uncommon points of history,had he known any of them; nor would either the Jewish naiion, or even PompeJhimself, then hare relished such a flagrant instance of sacrilege.