OCR Output an. 1532.J 81 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. water changed for the better; he bid thestrongest men among them that stood there,to draw up water; and told them that whenthe greatest part was drawn up, the remain­der would be potable.* So they laboured atit till the water was so agitated and purgedas to be fit to drink. Removing from thence, they came to Elim,fwhich place looked well at a distance, forthere was a grove of palm-trees, but whenthey came nearer, it appeared to be a badplace, for the palm-trees were no more thanseventy, and they were ill-grown, and creep­ing trees, by the want of water, for the coun­try about was all parched, and no moisturesufficient to water them, and make them hope­ful and useful, was derived to them from thefountains, which were twelve in number;they were rather a few moist places, thansprings, which not breaking out of the ground,nor running over, could not sufficiently waterthe trees. And when they dug into the sand,they met with no water, and if they took afew drops of it into their hands, they foundit to be useless on account of its mud. Thetrees also were too weak to bear fruit, forwant of being sufficiently cherished and enli­vened by the water. So they laid the blameon their conductor, and made heavy com­plaints against him; and said, that this theirmiserable state, and the experience they hadof adversity, were owing to him: for that theyhad then journeyed thirty days, and hadspent all the provisions they had broughtwith them, and meeting with no relief, theywere in a very desponding condition. Thusby fixing their attention upon nothing buttheir present misfortunes, they were hinderedfrom remembering what deliverances theyhad received from God, and those by thevirtue and wisdom of Moses also; so they-were very angry at their conductor, and were zealous to stone him, as the direct oc­casion of their present miseries. But while the multitude were irritated andbitterly set against him, Moses cheerfully re­lied upon God, and upon his consciousnessof the care he had taken of his own people,and he came into the midst of them, evenwhile they clamoured against him, and hadstones in their hands, in order to despatchhim. Now he was of an agreeable presence,and very able to persuade the people by hi9speeches: accordingly he began to mitigatetheir anger, and exhorted them not to be overmindful of their present adversities, lest theyshould thereby suffer the benefits that hadformerly been bestowed on them, to slip outof their memories; and he desired them byno means on account of their present uneasi­ness, to cast those great and wonderful fa­vours and gifts, which they had obtained ofGod, out of their minds: but to expect deli­verance out of their present troubles, whichthey could not free themselves from; and thisby the means of that Divine providence whichwatched over them: as it was probable thatGod merely tried their virtue, and exercisedtheir patience by these adversities, that itmight appear what fortitude they had, andwhat memory they retained of his formerwonderful works in their favour: and whetherthey would not think of them upon occasionof the miseries they now felt. He told them,it appeared they were not really good meneither in patience, or in remembering whathad been successfully done for them, some­times by contemning God, and his commands,when, by those commands, they left the landof Egypt; and sometimes by behaving them­selves ill towards him who was the servant ofGod, and this when he had never deceivedthem, either in what he said, or had orderedthem to do by God's command. He also re­ * The additions here to Moses's account of the sweet­ening the waters at Marah, seem derived from some an­cient profane author, and he such an author also, as looksless authentic than are usually followed by Josephus.Philo has not a syllable of these additions; nor any otherancient writer that we know of. Had Josephus written hisAntiquities for the use of the Jews, he would hardly havejriven them these very improb-ible circumstances; butwriting to Gentiles, that they might not complain of hisomission of any accounts of such miracles derived fromGentiles, he did not think proper to conceal what he hadmet with there about this matter. Which procedure isperfectly agreeable to the character and usage of Josephus upon many occasions. This is, however, barely conjectu­ral; and since Josephus never tells us when his own copy,taken out of the temple, had such additions; or when anyancient notes supplied them; or indeed when they werederived from Jewish, and when from Gentile antiquities,we can go no farther than bare conjecture in such cases.Only the notions of Jews were generally so different fromthose of Gentiles, that we may sometimes make no impro­bable guesses to which sort such additions belong. Seealso somewhat like these additions in Josephus's accountof Elisha's making sweet the bitter and barren spring neaxJericho. Of the War, IV, 8.t Exod. xv. 27.