OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 193 new and abundant materials for eating and drinking invitedthem to make themselves comfortable for the moment.Thereby the Romans gained time to encounter them withunited forces in Italy. It was no season to resume—as thedemocratic general would perhaps otherwise have done—the interrupted scheme of conquest in Gaul, which GaiusGracchus had probably projected. From the battle-field ofAix the victorious army was conducted to the Po; and aftera brief stay in the capital, where Marius refused the triumphoffered to him until he had utterly subdued the barbarians,he arrived in person at the united armies. In the springof 653 they again crossed the Po, 50,000 strong, under 101.the consul Marius and the proconsul Catulus, and marchedagainst the Cimbri, who, in turn, seem to have marchedup the river with a view to cross the mighty stream at itssource. The two armies met below Vercellae not far from the Battle onconfluence of the Sesia with the Po,* just at the spot where the RaudmeHannibal had fought his first battle on Italian soil. The p"'Cimbri desired battle, and according to their custom sentto the Romans to settle the time and place for it; Mariusgratified them and named the next day—it was the 30th July,653—and the Raudine plain, a wide level space, which the 101.superior Roman cavalry found advantageous for their move­ments. Here they fell upon the enemy expecting themand yet taken by surprise ; for in the dense morning mist theCeltic cavalry found itself in hand-to-hand conflict with thestronger cavalry of the Romans before it anticipated attack,and was thereby thrown back upon the infantry which wasjust making its dispositions for battle. A complete victorywas gained with slight loss, and the Cimbri were annihilated.Those might be deemed fortunate who met death in thebattle, as most did, including the brave king Poiorix; morefortunate at least than those who afterwards in despairlaid hands on themselves, or were obliged to seek in th» * It is injudicious to deviate from the traditional account and to transfer thefield of battle to Verona: in so doing the fact is overlooked that a whole win­ter and various movements of troops intervened between the conflicts on theAdige and the decisive engagement, and that Catulus, according to expressstatement (Plut. Mar. 24) had retreated to the right hank of the Po. Thestatements that the Cimbri were defeated on the Po (Hier. Chron.), and thatthey were defeated where Stilicho afterwards defeated the Getae, i.e. at Cherascoon the Tanaro, although both inaccurate, point at least to Vercellae muchrather than to Verona. vol. in. o