OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. X.LII1. I desire to believe, but I dare not affirm, that Belisa-Baigari- rius sincerely rejoiced in the triumph of Narses. YetA.*b. 559. the consciousness of his own exploits might teach himto esteem without jealousy the merit of a rival; and therepose of the aged warrior was crowned by a last victorywhich saved the emperor and the capital. The barba­rians who annually visited the provinces of Europe wereless discouraged by some accidental defeats, than theywere excited by the double hope of spoil and of subsidy.In the thirty-second winter of Justinian's reign> the Da­nube was deeply frozen: Zabergan led the cavalry ofthe Bulgarians, and his standard was followed by a pro­miscuous multitude of Sclavonians. The savage chiefpassed, without opposition, the river and the mountains,spread his troops over Macedonia and Thrace, and ad­vanced with no more than seven thousand horse to thelong walls which should have defended the territory ofConstantinople. But the works of man are impotentagainst the assaults of nature: a recent earthquake hadshaken the foundations of the wall; and the forces ofthe empire were employed on the distant frontiers ofItaly, Africa, and Persia. The seven schools? or com­panies of the guards or domestic troops, had been aug­mented to the number of five thousand five hundredmen, whose ordinary station was in the peaceful citiesof Asia. But the places of the brave Armenians wereinsensibly supplied by lazy citizens, who purchased anexception from the duties of civil life, without being ex­posed to the dangers of military service. Of such sol­diers, few could be tempted to sally from the gates; and,none could be persuaded to remain in the field, unless,they wanted strength and speed to escape from the Bul­garians. The report of the fugitives exaggerated thenumbers and fierceness of an enemy, who had polluted •holy virgins, and abandoned new-born infants to. the » In the deoay of these military schools, the satire of Prooopins (Anecdot. c.Aleman.p. 103,103.) is confirmed and illustrated by Agalhias, (lib. 5. p. 159.) whocannot be rejected as an hostile witnesj.