OCR Output 354 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in twelve ships, and the enemies were dis­persed, they took five hundred men prisoners.And the reputation of all the citizens of Tyrewas thereby increased. But the king ofAssyria returned, and placed guards at theirriver and aqueducts; who should hinder theTyrians from drawing water. This continuedfor five years; and still the Tyrians sustainedthe siege, and drank of the water they hadout of the wells they dug." And this is whatis written in the Tyrian archives concerningShalmaneser, king of Assyria. But now the Cutheans, who removed intoSamaria, (for that is the name they have beencalled by to this time; because they werebrought out of the country called Cuthah,which is a country of Persia, and there is ariver of the same name in it,) each of themaccording to their nations, which were innumber five, brought their own gods into Sa­maria; and by worshipping them, as was thecustom of their own countries, they provokedAlmighty God to send a plague* upon them,by which they were destroyed. And whenthey found no cure for their miseries, theylearned by an oracle, that they ought to wor- ship Almighty God, as the method for theirdeliverance. So they sent ambassadors tothe king of Assyria; and desired him to sendthem some of those priests of the Israeliteswhom he had taken captive. And when hethereupon sent them, and the people wereby them taught the laws, and the holy wor­ship of God, they worshipped him in a re­spectable manner; and the plague ceasedimmediately. And indeed they continued tomake use of the same customs to this verytime; and are called in the Hebrew tongue,Cutheans, but in the Greek tongue, Samari­tans. And when they see the Jews in pros­perity, they pretend that they are allied tothem, and call them kinsmen; as though theywere derived from Joseph, and had by thatmeans an original alliance with them. Butwhen they see them falling into a low con­dition, they say they are no way related tothem; and that the Jews have no right toexpect any kindness from them; but theydeclare that they are sojourners, that comefrom other countries. But of these we shallhave a more seasonable opportunity to dis­course hereafter.t * Josephus says here, that instead of lions, as in ourother copies, 2 Kings xvii. 26. a plague or pestilence wassent among these Cutheans or Samaritans. He also con­firms this afterwards, XII. 5. by an epistle of these Cu­theans or Samaritans to Antiochus Epiphanes; which says nothing of lions; but expressly mentions these fre­quent plagues. So that Josephus's reading seems to bethe most accurate in this place. t See Book XI. chap. 8. and XII. 5.