OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. I-1J perty is seldom indulged: it was introduced at Athens by the laws of Solon; andthe private testaments of the father of a family are authorized by the twelve ta­bles. Before the time of the decemvirs,(l) a Roman citizen exposed his wishesand motives to the assembly of thirty curia; or parishes, and the general law of in­heritance was suspended by an occasional act of the legislature. After the per­mission of the decemvirs, each private lawgiver promulgated his verbal or writtentestament in the presence of five citizens, who represented the five classes of theRoman people; a sixth witness attested their concurrence: a seventh weighed thecopper money, which was paid by an imaginary purchaser; and the estate wasemancipated by a fictitious sale and immediate release. This singular cere­mony,^) which excited the wonder of the Greeks, was still practised in the ageof Severus; but the pretors had already approved a more simple testament, forwhich they required the seals and signatures of seven witnesses, free from all le­gal exception, and purposely summoned for the execution of that important act.A domestic monarch, who reigned over the fives and fortunes of his children,might distribute their respective shares according to the degrees of their merit orhis affection: his arbitrary displeasure chastised an unworthy son by the loss of hisinheritance and the mortifying preference of a stranger. But the experience ofunnatural parents recommended some limitations of their testamentary powers.A son, or, by the laws of Justinian, even a daughter, could no longer be disinheri­ted by their silence: they were compelled to name the criminal, and to specify theoffence; and the justice of the emperor enumerated the sole causes that could jus­tify such a violation of the first principles of nature and society.(3) Unless a legi­timate portion, a fourth part, had been reserved for the children, they were enti­tled to institute an action or complaint of inofficious testament, to suppose that theirfather's understanding was impaired by sickness or age; and respectfully to appealfrem his rigorous sentence to the deliberate wisdom of the magistrate. In the Ro­man jurisprudence, an essential distinction was admitted between the inheritanceand the legacies. The heirs who succeeded to the entire unity, or to any of thetwelve fractions of the substance of the testator, represented his civil and religiouscharacter, asserted his rights, fulfilled his obligations, and discharged the gifts offriendship or liberality which his last will had bequeathed under the name of le­gacies. But as the imprudence or prodigality of a dying man might exhaust the.inheritance, and leave only risk and labour to his successor, he was empowered toretain the Falcidian portion; to deduct, before the payment of the legacies, a clearfourth for his own emolument. A reasonable time was allowed to examine theproportion between the debts and the estate, to decide whether he should acceptor refuse the testament; and if he used the benefit of an inventory, the demands ofthe creditors could not exceed the valuation of the effects. The last will of a citi­zen might be altered during his life, or rescinded after his death: the persons whomhe named might die before him, or reject the inheritance, or be exposed to somelegal disqualification. In the contemplation of these events, he was permitted tosubstitute second and third heirs, to replace each other according to the order ofthe testament; and the incapacity of a madman or an infant to bequeath his pro­perty, might be supplied by a similar substitution. (4) But the power of the testa­tor expired with the acceptance of the testament: each Roman of mature age anddiscretion acquired the absolute dominion of his inheritance, and the simplicity ofthe civil law was never clouded by the long and intricate entails which confinethe happiness and freedom of unborn generations. Conquest and the formalities of law established the use of codicils. If a Ro­man was surprised by death in a remote province of the empire, he addressed a 519.527.)alearned, rambling,spirited writer. In the second and third bookj the method of the Institutesis doubtless preposterous; and the chancellor Duqnesseau (CBuvres, torn. i. p. 275.) wishes his countryman Do-mat in the place of Tribonian. Yet covenants before succession 11 not surely the natural order of the civillaws. (1) Prior example of testaments are perhaps fabnlous. At Athens, a childless father only could make awill. (Plutareh. ul Solon, torn. i. p. 164. See Itsetis aud Jones. (2) The testament of Augustus is specified by Suetonius, (in August, c. 101. in Neron. c. 4.) who may bestudied as a code of Roman antiquities. Plutarch (Opuscul. torn. ii. p. 270.) is surprised »x«» Ji Ji»9uk*s y p»f »~tiv jrtpM- inv at7n\timt9-i ;rAj]psvo,usc, tnpoi Si r -> rmt wiac. The language of Ulpian (Fragment, tit. xx. p.627.edit. Schulting) is almost too exclusive,solum in usu est. (3) Justinian (Novel, lis. No. 3, 4,) enumerates only the public and private crimes, for which a son mightlikewise disinherit his father. (4) The substitutions fidei commissaries of the modern civil law is a feudal idea grafted on the Roman juris­prudence, and bears scarcely any resemblance to the ancient fidei commissa. (Institutions du droit Francois .torn. i. p. 347—383. Denissart, Decisions de Jurisprudence, torn. iv. p. 577—604.) They were stretched to th'Jfourth degree by an abuse of the hundred and fifty-ninth Novel; a partial, perplexed, declamatory law.