OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 325 in probability be better concealed in doing it, if he did it notpresently, nor immediately after what had lately happened. 3. And now, upon the approach of the feast of tabernacles,which is a festival very much observed among us, he let thosedays pass over, and both he and the rest of the people weretherein very merry; yet did the envy which at this time arosein him, cause him to make haste to do what he was about, andprovoke him to do it: for when this youth Aristobulus, who wasnow in the seventeenth year of his age; went up to the altar, ac足cording to the law to offer the sacrifices, and this with the orna足ments of his high priesthood, and when he * performed the sa足cred offices, he seemed to be exceeding comely, and taller thanmen usually were at that age, and to exhibit in his countenancea great deal of that high family he was sprung from, and a warmzeal and affection towards him appeared among the people, andthe memory of the actions of his grandfather Aristobulus, wasfresh in their minds; and their affections got so far the masteryof them that they could not forbear to show their inclinationsto him., They at once rejoiced, and were confounded, andmingled with good wishes their joyful acclamations which theymade to him, till the good-will of the multitude was made tooevident, and they more rashly proclaimed the happiness they hadreceived from his family than was fit under a monarchy to havedone. Upon all this, Herod resolved to complete what he hadintended against the young man. When therefore the festivalwas over, and he was feasting at f Jericho with Alexandra, whoentertained them there, he was then very pleasant with theyoung man, and drew him into a lonely place; and at the sametime played with him in a juvenile and ludicrous manner.Now the nature of that place was hotter than ordinary; so theywent out in a body and of a sudden, and in a vein of madness;and as they stood by the fish ponds, of which there were largeones about the house, they went to cool themselves [by bathing]because it was in the midst of a hot day. At first they wereonly spectators of Herod's servants and acquaintance as theywere swimming, but after a while, the young man, at the in足stigation of Herod, went into the water among them, while suchof Herod's acquaintance, as he had appointed to do it, dippedhim, as he was swimming, and plunged him under water, in thedark of the evening, as if it had been done in sport only, nor * This entirely confutes the Talmudists, who pretend that no one under tirmttyyears of age could officiate as high priest among the Jews. t A. Hebrew chronicle, cited by Reland, says, this drowning was at Jordan, notat Ji'ric/ni, and tin's even when he quotes Josephus. 1 suspect the transcriber of theHebrew chronicle mistook the nanTc, and wrote Jordan for Jcru'tia*