OCR Output 132 L ATI DM LATUM. have any national existence, the name of Latium is still not unfrequently u»ed, as equivalent to "nomen Latinum," to designate the whole body of those who presestsed the rights of Latins, and were therefore •till called Latiui, though no longer in a national sense. The suggestion of a modern writer (Abeken,Mittel Italian, p. 42) that Latium is derived from"latos,* broad, and means the broad plain or ex­panse of the Campagna (like Campania from"Campos "), appears to be untenable, on account ofthe difference in the quantity of the tirst syllable,notwithstanding the analogy of wAari*, which hasthe tirst syllable short. II. K.XTENT AND BoUNDAUIKS. The name of Latium was applied at different periodsin a very different extent and signification. Originally,aaaln5adypointcdout.it meant the land of the Latiui;and as long as that jieople retained their independentnational existence, the name of Latium could onlybe applied to the territory possessed by them, exclu­sive of that of the Hernici, Aequians, Volscians, &c,who were at that peri.nl indejindent and often Juts-tile nations. It was not till these separate nationali­ties had been merged into the common condition ofsubjects and citizens of Kome that the name ofLatium came to be extended to all the territorywhich they had previously occupied; and wis thusapplied, tirst in common parlance, and afterwards inofficial usage, to the whole region from the borders ofEtruria to those of Campania, or from tlie Tiber tothe Liris. Hence we must carefully distinguish be­tween Latium in the original sense of the name, inwhich alone, it occurs throughout the early Komanhistory, and Latium in this later or geographicalsense; and it will be necessary here to treat of thetwo quite separately. The period at which thelatter usage of the name came into vogue we haveno means of determining: we know only that it wasfully established before the time of Augustas, and isrecognised bv all the geographers. (Strab. v. pp. 228,231; Plin.i'ii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 5, 6.) Plinydesignates the original Latium, or Latium properlyso called, as Latium Antiquum, to which lie opposesthe newly added portions, as Latium Adject urn. Itmay, however, be doubted whether these appellationswere cut adopted in common use,though convenientas geographical distinctions. 1. Latum Antiquum, or Latium in the originaland historical sense, was a country of small extent,bounded by the Tiber on the N-, by the Apennineson the E., and by the Tyrrhenian sea on the YY.;while on the S. its limits were not defined by anynatural boundaries, and appear to have fluctuatedconsiderably at different periods. Pliny defines it asextending from the mouth of the Tiber to the Cir-ceian promontory, a statement ccntirmed by Strabo(l'lin. iii. 5. a. 9; Strab. v. p. 231); and we haveother authority also fir tho fact that at an earlyperiod all the tract of marshy plain, known as thePontine Marshes or " Pomptinus Agcr,* extendingfrom Vehtrae and Antium to Circeii, was inhabitedby Lattiitf.and regarded as a part of Latium. (Cato,ap. Fritcian. v. p. 668.) Even of the adjoining moun­tain tract, subsequently occupied by the Volscians, apart at least must have been originally Latin, forCora, Norba, and Setia were all of them Latin cities(Dionys-v, 61),—though, at a somewhat later period,not only had these towns, is well as the plain be-iteaih, fallen into Uie hands of tlie Volscians, but that people had made themselves masters of Antiumand Vehtrae, which are in consequence repeatedlycalled Volscian cities. The manner in which theearly Roman history has been distorted by poeticallegends and the exaggerations of national vanityrenders it very difficult to trace the coarse of thesechanges, and the alterations in the frontiers conse­quent upon the alternate progress of the WUciai.and the Koman arms. But there seems no reaxwito doubt the fact^that such changes repeatedly tookplace, and that we may thus explain the apjareatinconsistency of ancient historians in calling thesame places at one time Volscian, at another Latin,cities. We may also clearly discern two differentperiods, during the first of which the Volscian inawere gradually gaining upon those of the Latins, andextending their dominion over cities of Latin oripn;while, in the second, the Volscians wen in their turngiving way before the preponderating power of Rom-.The Gaulish invasion (b.c. 390) may be taken, ap­proximately at least, as the turning point betweenthe two periods. The case appears to have been Bomewhat sixmTcr,though to a less degree, on the r.ortbero frontier,where the Latins ail joined the Sabines, Here, aba,we find the same place** at different times, and bydifferent authors, termed sometimes Latin and son.e-tiines Sabine, cities; and though in some of tbe^ecases the discrepancy may have arisen from mere in­advertence or error, it is probable tliat in some in­stances both statements are equally correct, butrefer to different periods. The circumstance thatthe Anio was fixed by Augustus as the boundary ofthe First Region seems to have soon led to the r.oti «that it was the northern limit of Latium alx>; andhence all the towns beyond it were regarded asSabine, though several of them were, according tothe general tradition of earlier time*;,originally La*; icities. Such was the confusion resulting from tia»cause that Piny in one passage enumerates Nocnetv-tum, Fidcnae, and even Tihur among the ShLc .«towns, while he elsewhere mentions the two f<»rrr*ras Latin cities,— and the Latin origin of Tibnr is toowell established to admit of a doubt. (Piin. in. i.s. 9, 12. s. 17.) In the absence of natural boundaries it is only bymeans of the names of the towns that we cam tracethe extent of Latium; and here fortunately the liststhat have been transmitted to us by LHonysius ai.dPliny, as well as those of the colonies of Alba, affordas material assistance. The Utter, indeed, cam**be regarded as of historical value, bat they were un­questionably meant to represent the fact, with whichtheir authors were probably well acquainted, thatthe places there enumerated were properly Lax.itcities, and not of Sabine or Volscian origin. Taairgthese authorities fur our guides, we may trace tfaalimits of ancient Latium as follows:—1. From themonth of the Tiber to the confluence of the Anix,the former river constituted the boundary betw««uLatium and Etruria. The Romans, indeed, from anearly period, extended their territory bryond ii*Tiber, and held the Janiculum and Campos Vi t-canus on its right bank, as well an the to-raiWSeptera Pagi, which they wrested from the Vsiexrta*.and it is probable that the Etruscans, on the otawrhand, had at one period extended their power over ajurt of the district on tlie left hank of the 7jT»-but that river nevertheless constituted the general]*recognised geographical limit between Etruria a=*iLattum. S. North of the Anio the Latin tomuv