OCR Output 190 > THE ANNALS [A.U.C.'775. order supplications for the recovery ofLivia, with so­lemn games on the occasion; in which the pontiffs,the augurs, the college of fifteen, with' that of theseptemvirs, and the sodality of Augustan priests wereto conduct the ceremonies. Lucius Apronius movedthat the heralds at arms should likewise officiate.Tiberius'opposed the motion. It proceeded, he said,on a mistaken principle. He. mentioned the distinctfunctions of the several orders of the priesthood, andmade it clear, from ancient precedents, that the he­rald had never been admitted to that participation ofhonour. The fraternity of Augustan priests was call­ed forth with good reason, since that order belonged,in a peculiar manner, to the family for which publicvows were to be offered. LXV. To give in detail, the several motions andresolutions of the time, is not within the plan of thiswork. And yet, when virtue and fair integrity dohonour to the heart, or when a slavish spirit brandsthe character, in either case, it is my intention to se­lect the particular instances. In this I apprehendconsists the chief part of the historian's duty. It ishis to rejudge the conduct of men, that generous ac­tions may be snatched from oblivion, and that theauthor of pernicious counsels, and the perpetrator ofevil deeds, may see beforehand, the infamy thatawaits them at the tribunal of posterity. In general,a black and shameful period lies before me. The agewas sunk to the lowest depth of sordid adulation; in­somuch that not only the most illustrious citizens, inorder to secure their pre-eminence, were obliged tocrouch and bend the knee, but men of consular andprsetorian rank, and the whole body of the senate,tried with emulation which should be the most obse­quious slave. We are informed by tradition, thatTiberius, as ofi^en as he went from the senate-house,was used to say in Greek, " Devoted men! how they" rush headlong into bondage!" Even he, the enemy ofcivil liberty, was disgusted with adulation, he playedthe tyrant, and despised the voluntary slave. LXVI. From acts of base compliance, the next stepof degenerate men was to deeds of horror. Caius Si­