OCR Output 382 ROMAN EMPIRE. his single lance maintained a flying fight against thirtyRomans, who were detached by Werdan ; and after kill­ing or unhorsing seventeen of their number, Derar re­turned in safety to his applauding brethren. Whenhis rashness was mildly censured by the general, he ex­cused himself with the simplicity of a soldier. Nay(said Derar), / did not begin first: but they came out totake me, and I was afraid that God should see me turnmy back: and indeed I fought in good earnest, and with­out doubt God assisted me against them; and had I notbeen apprehensive of disobeying your orders, I should nothave'Come away as 1 did; and Iperceive already that theywill fall into our hands. In the presence of both armies, avenerable Greek advanced from the ranks with a liberaloffer of peace; and the departure of the Saracens wouldhave been purchased by a gift to each soldier of a turban,a robe, and a piece of gold; ten robes, and a hundredpieces to their leader; one hundred robes, and a thou­sand pieces to the caliph. A smile of indignation ex­pressed the refusal of Caled. Ye Christian dogs, youknow your option: the Koran, the tribute, or the sword.We are a people whose delight is in war, rather than inpeace; and we despise your pitiful alms; since we shaUspeedily be masters of your wealth, your families, and yourpersons. Notwithstanding this apparent disdain, hewas deeply conscious of the public danger: those whohad been in Persia, and had seen the armies of Chos-roes, confessed that they never beheld a more formidablearray. From the superiority of the enemy, the artfulSaracen derived a fresh incentive of courage. You seebefore you (said he) the united force of the- Romans: youcannot hope to escape, but you may conquer Syria in asingle day. The event depends on your discipline and pa­tience. Reserve yourselves till the evening. It was inthe evening that the prophet was accustomed to vanquish.During two successive engagements, his temperate firm­ness sustained the darts of the enemy, and the murmurs