OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 321 Strabo was a fortunate event for it. He died not of the Death ofpestilence, but—as was alleged at least—of the effects of a Strabo.thunderbolt which had struck his tent; the masses, exas­perated on many grounds against him, tore his corpse fromthe bier and dragged it through the streets. The remnantof his troops was incorporated by the consul Octavius withhis army. After the arrival of Metellus and the deceaseof Strabo the army of the government was again at least amatch for its antagonists, and was able to take up its groundfor battle against the insurgents at the Alban Mount.But the minds of the soldiers of the government were Vacillationdeeply agitated; when Cinna appeared in front of them, °f thethey received him with acclamation as if he were still their g°Ter"-general and consul; Metellus deemed it advisable not to menuallow the battle" to come on, but to lead back the troops totheir camp. The Optimates themselves wavered, and fellinto variance with each other. While one party, with thehonourable but stubborn and shortsighted consul Octaviusat their head, perseveringly opposed all concession, themore experienced and more judicious Metellus attemptedto bring about a compromise; but his conference withCinna excited the wrath of the ultras on both sides: Cinnawas called by Marius a weakling, Metellus was called byOctavius a traitor. The soldiers, disturbed on other groundsand not without cause distrusting the leadership of theuntried Octavius, suggested to Metellus that he shouldassume the chief command, and, when he refused, began incrowds to throw away their arms or even to desert to theenemy. The temper of the burgesses became daily moredepressed and troublesome. On the proclamation of theheralds of Cinna guaranteeing freedom to the slaves whoshould desert, these flocked in troops from the capital to theenemy's camp. But the proposal that the senate shouldguarantee freedom to the slaves willing to enter the armywas decidedly resisted by Octavius. The government could Rome capi-not conceal that it was defeated, and that nothing remained tulates.but to come to terms if possible with the leaders of theband, as an overpowered traveller comes to terms with abandit-chief. Envoys were sent to Cinna; but, while theyfoolishly made difficulties as to recognizing him as consul,and Cinna in the interval thus occupied transferred hiscamp close to the city-gates, the desertion spread to sogreat an extent that it was no longer possible to settle any VOl. III. T . _