OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 355 old under arms in Sicily, Africa, and Macedonia; theywere now, in short, worn out with labor and fatigue, andhad lost the best part of their blood by the manywounds which they had received.' The consul toldthem, that ' the grounds on which they demanded theirdischarge appeared to him to be reasonable, if the de­mand had been made in a moderate manner; but thatneither on that, nor on any other grounds, could mu­tiny ever be justified. Wherefore, if they were con­tented to adhere to their standards, and obey orders,he would write to the senate concerning their release;and that what they desired would more easily be ob­tained by modest behavior than by turbulence.' 4. At this time, Philip was pushing on the siege ofThaumaci, with the utmost vigor, by means of moundsand engines, and was ready to bring up the ram tothe walls, when he was obliged to relinquish the un­dertaking by the sudden arrival of the jEtolians, who,under the command of Archidamus, having made theirway into the town between the posts of the Macedo­nians, never ceased, day or night, making continualsallies, sometimes against the guards, sometimes againstthe works. They were at the same time favored bythe nature of the place; for Thaumaci stands near theroad from ThermopylEe, and the Malian bay, throughLamia, on a lofty eminence, hanging immediately overthe narrow pass called Caele. After passing throughthe craggy grounds of Thessaly, the roads are ren­dered intricate by the windings of the valleys, and onthe near approach to the city, such an immense plainopens at once to view, like a vast sea, that the eye canscarcely reach the bounds of the expanse beneath.From this surprising prospect it was called Thaumaci.The city itself is secured, not only by the height of itssituation, but by its standing on a rock, from the sidesof which, all round, the projecting parts had beenpared off. In consequence of these difficulties, andthe prize not appearing sufficient to recompense somuch toil and danger, Philip desisted from the at­tempt. The winter also was approaching; he there-