OCR Output B JAZYGES. IB Kit A. fating the native Slaves and resisting the power ofRome. A portion of their territory was token fromthem by Decebalus, which, after-Trajan's Dacianconquests, was incorporated with the Koman do-minion.H. (Dion Cass, xlviii. 10,11.) Pannonia andMucsia were constantly exposed to their inroads; but,A.n. 171, they were at length driven from theirlast holds in the province, and pushed across theDanube, by M. Aurelius. In mid-winter they re­turned in great numbers, and attempted to cross thefrozen stream: the Romans encountered them uponthe ice, ami inflicted a severe defeat. (Dion Cass.Uxi. 7, 8, 1G.) At a Liter period, as the ltomanEmpire hastened to its fall, it was constantly exposedto the attacks of these wild hordes, who, beaten oneday, appeared the next, plundering and laying wastewhatever came in their way. (Anun. Man-, xvii. 12,13, xxix. 6.) The word * peace" was unknown tothem. (Flor. iv. 12.) They called themselves " Sarmatac Limigantes,"and were divided into two classes of freemen andslaves, '*.Sarmatae Liberi," " Sarmatae Scrvi." Am-mianus Marccllinus (xvii. 13. § 1) calls the subjectclass " Liniigantcs" (a word which has been falselyexplained by •' Limitanei"), and St. Jerome (CAroa.)says that the ruling Sannalians had the title " Arca-garantes." By a careful comparison of the accountsgiven by Dion Cassius, Ammianus, Jerome, and thewriter of the Life of Constantine, it may be clearlymade out that the Sarmatian lazyges, besidea sub-jugating theGetae in Daciaand on the Lower Danube,had, by force of arms, enslaved a people distinct fromthe Gctac, and living on the Theisa and at the footof the Carpathians. Although the nations aroundthem were called, both the ruling and the subjectrace, SarmatiaiM, yet the free Sarmntians were en­tirely distinct from the servile population in language,customs, and mode of life. The lazyges, wild, boldriders, scoured over the plains of the Danube andTheisa valleys on their unbroken horses, while theironly dwellings were the waggons drawn by oxen inwhich they carried their wives and children. Thesubject Sarmatians, on the other hand, had woodenhouses and villages, such as those enumerated byPtolemy (i c); they fought more on foot than onhorseback, and were daring seamen, all of whichpeculiarities were eminently characteristic of theancient Slaves. (Schafarik, vol. i. p. 230.) The Slaves often rose against their masters, who■ought an alliance against them among the Victofaliand Quadi. (Ammian. i c; Euseb. ViL Constant.iv. 6.) The history of this obscure and remarkablewarfare (a. d. 334) is given by Gibbon (c. xviii.;eomp. Le Beau, Bat Empire, vol. L p. 337; Manao,Lebrn Conttantint, p. 195). In A. D. 357—359 anew war broke out, in which Constantiua made asuccessful campaign, and received the title "Sar-maticus." (Gibbon, c. xix.; Le Beau, vol. ii. pp.245—273.) In a. n. 471 two of their leaders,Benga and BabaT, were defeated before Singidunum(btljrnde) by Theodoric the Ostrogoth. (Joniand.at Keb. Get 55; com p. Gibbon, c, mil. j Le Dean,vol. rii. p. 44.) The hordes of the Huns, Gepidae,and Goths broke the power of this wild people, whosedescendants, however, concealed themselves in thedesert districts of lb* Tbeiss till the arrival of theMagyars. Another branch of the Sarmatian lazyges weresettled behind tbe Carpathians in Podlackia, amiwere known in history at the eud of the 10th cen­tury of our era; it is probable that they were among the northern tribes vanquished by Mermanric in A. n-332—350, and that they were the same people asthose mentioned by Jornandes (<fc litb. Get. 3) underthe corrupt form IxAi'.tXES. There is a monograph on this subject by Hennig(Comment de llebut Ituyyum S. lattingorum,Regiomont, 1812); a full and clear account ofthe fortunes of these peoples will be found in theGerman translation of the very able work of Scha­farik, the historian of tbe Slavish races. In 1799 a gulden dish was found with an in­scription in Greek characters, now in the imperialcabinet of antiquities at Vienna, which has been re­ferred to the lazyges. (Von Hammer, Oman.Cttch. vol. iii. p. 726.) [E. B. J.] IBAN ('ISa*, Cedren. vol. ii. p. 774), a citywhich Cedrenus (to.) describes as the metropolis ofVasbouragan (u.wrpdiroAw 8s aorij too Baava-oajcdV). The name survives in the modem Win. St.Martin, the historian of Armenia (item, fur I'Ar-menie, vol. i. p. 117), says that, according to nativetraditions, Yin is a very ancient city, the founda­tion of which was attributed to Semiramis. Ruined incourse of time, it was rebuilt by a king called Van,who lived a short time before the expedition of Alex­ander the Great, and who gave it his name; but,having again fallen into decay, it was restored byVagh-Arshag (Valarsases), brother to Arsascs, andfirst king of Armenia of the race of the Arsasidae.In the middle of tbe 4th century after Christ it wascaptured by Sapor II. (Ritter, Enllcunde, vol. ix. pp.787, 981; London Geog. Journal, vol. viii. p. 66.) [AllTKMITA BCASIA.] [E. B. J.] 1BEK. LIhkbus.]• IliK'KA, a city of Hispania Citerior, mentionedonly by Livy, who gives no explicit account of itssite, further than that it was near the Iberus (tiro),whence it took its name; but, from the connectionof the narrative, we may safely infer that it was notfar from tbe sea. At the time referred to, namely,in the Second Punic War, it was the wealthiest cityin those parts. (Liv. xxiii. 28.) The manner inwhich Livy mentions it seems also to warrant the con­clusion that it was still well known under Augustus.Two coins are extant, one with the epigraph Ml'M.iiibera julia on the one side, snd iixiicavuxiaon the other; and the other with the head of Ti­berius on the obverse, and on the reverse the epi­graph M. H. J. 1LEKCAV02IIA; whence it appearsto have been made a municipium by Julius, or byAugustus in his honour, and to hare been situatedin the territory of the Ileiicaoxes. The additiondebt, on the latter of these coins led Harduin toidentify the place with Dertosa, the site of which,however, on the left bank of the river, does notagree with the probable position of lbera. Klorasupposes the allusion to be to a treaty betweenlbera and Dertosa. The ships with spread sails, onboth coins, indicate its maritime site, which modemgeographers seek on the S. side of the delta of tbeEbro, at S. Carlo* dt la Hapita, near Ampotta.Its decay is easily accounted fur by its lying out ofthe great high road, amidst the malaria of the river*delta, and in a position where its port would hechoked by tho alluvial deposits of the A"4ro. Itseems probable that the port is now represented bythe Salinas, or lagoon, called Puerto dt lot Atfaqutt,which signifies Port of the Javt, i. e. of tbe river*(Plin. iii. 3. s. 4; Harduin, ml loc.; liana, llisjKii. 8; Klorex, Mtd, at Etp. voL ii. p. 453; Stslini,