OCR Output 202 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. I shall not repeat the well-known story of thexxxvii. DecemvirS, who sullied by their actions the honourThe twelve of inscribing on brass, or wood, or ivory, the twelveDecemvirs.6tables of the Roman laws*. They were dictatedby the rigid and jealous spirit of an aristocracy,which had yielded with reluctance to the just demandsof the people. But the substance of the twelve tableswas adapted to the state of the city; and the Ro­mans had emerged from barbarism, since they werecapable of studying and embracing the institutions oftheir more enlightened neighbours. A wise Ephesianwas driven by envy from his native country: beforehe could reach the shores of Latium, he had observedthe various forms of human nature and civil society;he imparted his knowledge to the legislators of Rome,and a statue was erected in the forum to the perpetualmemory of Hermodorus. The names and divisionsof the copper-money, the sole coin of the infant state,were of Dorian origin: the harvests of Campania andSicily relieved the wants of a people whose agriculturewas often interrupted by war and faction; and sincethe trade was established, the deputies who sailedfrom the Tyber might return from the same har­bours with a more precious cargo of political wisdom.The colonies of Great Greece had transported andimproved the arts of their mother-country. Cumaeand Rhegium, Crotona and Tarentum, Agrigentumand Syracuse, were in the rank of the most flourish­ing cities. The disciples of Pythagoras applied phi­losophy to the use of government; the unwritten character as the Saliare Carmen, which, in the time of Horace, none could under­stand. The Roman idiom, by an infusion of Doric and yEolic Greek, was gra­dually ripened into the style of the xii tables, of the Duillian column, of Ennius,of Terence, and of Cicero (Gruter. Inscript . tom. i. p. cxlii. Scipion Maflbi. Is -toria Diplomatics p. 241—258. Bibliotheque Italique, tom. iii. p. 30—41.174—205. tom. xiv. p. 1—52). * From the historians, Heineccius (Hist. J. It. 1. i. No. 26) maintains thatthe twelve tables were of brass—(ereas; in the text of Pomponius we readchoreas; for which Scaliger has substituted roboreas (Bynkershoek, p. 286).Wood, brass, and ivory, might be successively employed.