OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tesy, both Vitiges and his more noble consort: and asthe king of the Goths conformed to the Athanasianfaith, he obtained, with a rich inheritance of lands inAsia, the rank of senator and patrician.5 Every specta­tor admired, without peril, the strength and stature ofthe young barbarians: they adored the strength and ma­jesty of the throne, and promised to shed their blood inthe service of their benefactor. Justinian deposited in theByzantine palace the treasures of the Gothic monarchy.A flattering senate was sometimes admitted to gaze onthe magnificent spectacle; but it was enviously secludedfrom the public view; and the conqueror of Italy re­nounced, without a murmur, perhaps without a sigh, thewell-earned honours of a second triumph. His glorywas indeed exalted above all external pomp; and thefaint and hollow praises of the court were supplied, evenin a servile age, by the respect and admiration of hiscountry. Whenever he appeared in the streets andpublic places of Constantinople, Belisarius attracted andsatisfied the eyes of the people. His lofty stature andmajestic countenance fulfilled their expectations of ahero; the meanest of his fellow-citizens were embolden­ed by his gentle and gracious demeanour; and the mar­tial train, which attended his footsteps, left his personmore accessible than in a day of battle. Seven thousandhorsemen, matchless for beauty and valour, were main­tained in the service, and at the private expense of thegeneral.' Their prowess was always conspicuous in sin­gle combats, or in the foremost ranks; and both partiesconfessed, that in the siege of Rome, the guards of Be­lisarius had alone vanquished the barbarian host. Theirnumbers were continually augmented by the bravest and ^ Vitiges lived Iwo years at Constantinople, and imperatoris in affectu convictm(or conjunctas) rehas excessit homanis. His widow, Mathasuenta, the wife and mo­ther of the patricians, the elder and younger Germanns, united the streams of Anicianand Amali blood. (Jornandes, c. 60. p. 221, in Moratori,tom^l.) 1 Procopius, Goth. lib. 3. c. 1. Atmoin, a French monk of the eleventh century,who had obtained, and has disfigured, some authentic information of Belisarius, men­tions,in his name, twelve thousandpueri or slaves—quospropriis alimus stipendiis—besides eighteen thousand noldiers. (Historians of France, tom. 3. De Gcstis Fran«.lib. 2. c. 6. p. 48.)