OCR Output 86 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the claims of the senate and people of ancient Rome,xv" the corpse of the deceased emperor, according to hislast request, was transported to the city, which wasdestined to preserve the name and memory of itsfounder. The body of Constantine, adorned withthe vain symbols of greatness, the purple and diadem,was deposited on a golden bed in one of the apart足ments of the palace, which for that purpose had beensplendidly furnished and illuminated. The forms ofthe court were strictly maintained. Every day, atthe appointed hours, the principal officers of thestate, the army, and the household, approaching theperson of their sovereign with bended knees and acomposed countenance, offered their respectful ho足mage as seriously as if he had been still alive. Frommotives of policy, this theatrical representation wasfor some time continued; nor could flattery neglectthe opportunity of remarking that Constantine alone,by the peculiar indulgence of heaven, had reignedafter his death *.Factions of But this reign could subsist only in empty pa足geantry; and it was soon discovered that the will ofthe most absolute monarch is seldom obeyed, whenhis subjects have no longer any thing to hope fromhis favour, or to dread from his resentment. Thesame ministers and generals who bowed with suchreverential awe before the inanimate corpse of theirdeceased sovereign, were engaged in secret consulta足tions to exclude his two nephews, Dalmatius andHannibalianus, from the share which he had assignedthem in the succession of the empire. We are tooimperfectly acquainted with the court of Constantineto form any judgment of the real motives which in- . * Funus relatum in urbem sui nominis, quod sane P. R. aegerrime tulit.Aurelius Victor. Constantine had prepared for himself a stately tomb in thechurch of the Holy Apostles. Eusebius, t iv. c. 60. The best, and indeed almostthe only account of the sickness, death, and funeral of Constantine, is containedin the fourth book of his Life, by Eusebius.