OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the corrupt appellation of Giustendil still indicates, abouttwenty miles to the south of Sophia, the residence of aTurkish sanjak.* For the use of the emperor's country­men, a cathedral, a palace, and an aqueduct, were speedi­ly constructed; the public and private edifices wereadapted to the greatness of a royal city; arid the strengthof the walls resisted, during the lifetime of Justinian, theunskilful assaults of the Huns and Sclavonians. Theirprogress was sometimes retarded, and their hopes of ra­pine were disappointed, by the innumerable castles,which, in the provinces of Dacia, Epirus, Thessaly, Ma­cedonia, and Thrace, appeared to cover the whole face ofthe country. Six hundred of these forts were built orrepaired by the emperor: but it seems reasonable to be­lieve, that the far greater part consisted only of a stoneor brick tower, in the midst of a square or circular area,which was surrounded by a wall and ditch, and affordedin a moment of danger some protection to the peasantsand cattle of the neighbouring villages.1 Yet these mi-rlitary works, which exhausted the public treasure, couldnot remove the just apprehensions of Justinian and hisEuropean subjects. The warm baths of Anchialus inThrace were rendered as safe as they were salutary; butthe rich pastures of Thessalonica were foraged by theScythian cavalry; the delicious vale of Tempe, threehundred miles from the Danube, was continually alarm­ed by the sound of war ;a and no unfortified spot, how­ever distant or solitary, could securely enjoy the blessingsof peace. The straits of Thermopylae, which seemedto protect, but which had so often betrayed, the safety J See d'Anville; (Memoires de l'Auademie, &c. lorn. 31. p. 289, 290.) Rycaut(Present State of the Turkish empire, p. 97. 316.) Ivlarsigli. (Stato Mililare del Iro-perio Ottomano, p. 130.) The sanjak of Giostendil is one of the twenty nnder thebeglerheg of Romulia, and his district maintains forty-eight zaims and five hundredand eighty-three timariots. * These fortifications may be compared to the castles in Mingrelia (Chardin, Voy­ages en Perse, torn. 1. p. 60. 131.)—a natural picture. » The valley of Tempe is situate along the river Peneus, between the hills of Ossaand Olympas: it is only five miles long, and in some places no more than one hundredend twenty feel in breadth. lis verdant beauties are elegantly described by Pliny^(Hist. Natur. lib. i. IS.)'and more diffusely by ..Elian. (Hist.Var. lih-3. c. 1.)