OCR Output 182 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. usurpation of Totila. A moderate theory was framedXXXVI- to reconcile the rights of property with the safety ofprescription, the claims of the state with the povertyof the people, and the pardon of offences with theinterest of virtue and order of society. Under theexarchs of Ravenna, Rome was degraded to the se­cond rank. Yet the senators were gratified by thepermission of visiting their estates in Italy, and ofapproaching without obstacle the throne of Con­stantinople: the regulation of weights and measureswas delegated to the pope and senate; and the sa­laries of lawyers and physicians, of orators and gram­marians, were destined to preserve or rekindle thelight of science in the ancient capital. Justinianmight dictate benevolent edicts*, and Narses mightsecond his wishes by the restoration of cities, andmore especially of churches; but the twenty years ofthe Gothic war had consummated the distress anddepopulation of Italy. As early as the fourth cam­paign, under the discipline of Belisarius himself, fiftythousand labourers died of hunger in the narrowregion of Picenum; and a strict interpretation ofthe evidence of Procopius would swell the loss ofItaly above the total sum of her present inhabitants.invasion I desire to believe, but I dare not affirm, that Bulgarians, Belisarius sincerely rejoiced in the triumph of Narses.. 559. yet the consciousness of his own exploits might teachhim to esteem without jealousy the merit of a rival;and the repose of the aged warrior was crowned bya last victory which saved the emperor and the capital.The Barbarians who annually visited the provincesof Europe were less discouraged by some accidental * The Pragmatic Sanction of Justinian, which restores and regulates the civilstate of Italy, consists of xxvii articles: it is dated August 15, A. D. 554; isaddressed to Narses, V. J. Propositus Sacri Cubiculi, and to Antiochus, Pr«-fectus PraHorio Italiae; and has been preserved by Julian Antecessor, and inthe Corpus Juris Civilis, after the novels and edicts of Justinian, Justin, andTiberius.