OCR Output QUICKSILVER. 59 ous vapour into the lungs, while, at the same time, they are ableto see through them. Minium is employed in books for writingthe more conspicuous letters; this is also done in inscriptions ormonuments, whether of gold or of marble. 41. OF HYDRARGYRUM. There has been invented from the inferior kind of minium,8 anartificial quicksilver, to be used instead of the native kind. It ismade in two ways; either by triturating minium with vinegar in acopper mortar, or by placing it in an iron shell or earthern dishcovered with a head, over which a quantity of clay has beenspread.9 A fire is then kindled under the dish, and kept up bybellows; the moisture which exudes from the head is wiped off,and will be found to resemble silver in colour, and water in fluidity.It is easily divided into globules, which run together into a liquidwhich slips through the fingers.1 And because it is certain thatthis is poisonous, I conceive that all the accounts which we possessof the use of minium as a medicine are not to be trusted, exceptperhaps its application to the head or the abdomen for the purposeof stopping haemorrhages, provided it does not penetrate into thebowels or touch the wound: I, for my part, think it ought not tobe used on any other occasion. s "Ex secondario." Our author must have been misinformed on thispoint, as the substance which he describes as the inferior minium is not anoxide of mercury. The editors and translators, presuming, as it would ap­pear, that Pliny was a complete chemist and mineralogist, have taken muchpains to amend or explain this passage; see note in the French trans, t. x.p. 636, 7; and in Valpy, p. 4380. 9 We have the same process described by Dioscorides, lib. v. cap. 64. "XSpapyvpog St OKtvaStrai vipapyvpog ytvtrai." "Fit ex minio, "quod falso cinnabaris dicitur, argentum vivum. Confectionis autem"modus hie est. In fictilem patinam ferream habentem concham minium"conjicitur. Calice dien luto circumlito, fictilis cooperitur patina ilia;*' accensisque sub eas carbonibus, qute calici fuligo inhiesit, derasa, refri-"gerataque, argentum vivum est." 1 The process for obtaining quicksilver from its oxide is detailed byVitruvius; he also states, at some length, the properties of the quicksilverso procured; among other particulars he remarks that four sextarii weighed100 lb.; vii. 8. This estimate is not very far from the truth; if we sup­pose the sextarius to have been equal to 1J pint, the above mentionedquantity of mercury will weigh about 589,000 grs. equal to a little more than103 lbs. See Wurm, sec. 66. p. 116 .. 0.