OCR Output I.OCKI. LOCRIS. 201 aderable detail; but Procopius seems to attest itscontinued existence in the 6th century (B. G. i. 15),and it is probable that it owed its complete de­struction to the Saracens, Its very name was for­gotten in the middle ages, and its site became amatter of dispute. This has however been com­pletely established by the researches of modemtravellers, who have found the remains of theancient city on the sea-coast, near the modern townof Gtraa. (Cluver, Ital.f. 1301; Komanelli, vol. i.p. 152; Cramer, vol. ii. p. 411; Kiedesel, Voyagelions la Grande Grcot, p. 148.) The few ruins that still remain have been care­fully examined and described by the Due de Luynes.(A*n.d. Inst. Arch. vol. ii. pp. 3—12.) The siteof the ancient city, which may be distinctly tracedby the vestiges of the walls, occupied a space ofnear two miles in length, by less than a mile inbreadth, extending from the sea-coast at Torre diGerace (on the left bank of a small stream calledthe ftien* di S. llano}, to the first heights orrkices of the Apennines. It is evidently to theseheights that Strabo gives the name of Mount Esopis("E<j»t«), on which he places the first foundation ofthe city. (Strab. vi. p. 259.) The same heightsart separated by deep ravines, so as to constitute twoseparate summits, both of them retaining the tracesof ancient fortifications, and evidently the "twocitadels not far distant from each other" noticed byI.ny in his account of the capture of the city byScipia. (Liv. xxix. 6.) The city extended fromhence down the slopes of the hills towards the sea,and had unquestionably its port at the mouth of thelittle river 5. Ilario, though there could never havebeen a harbour there in the modern sense of theterra. Numerous fragments of ancient masonry arescattered over the site, but the only distinct vestigestrfsnv ancient edifice are those of a Doric temple, ofwhich the basemeut alone now remains, but severalcolumns were standing down to a recent period. Itis occupied by a farm-house, called the Casino deliImperatore, about a mile from the sea, and appearsto have stood without the ancient walls, so that it isDot improbable the ruins may be the remains of thecelebrated temple of Proserpine, which we know tobte occupied a similar position. (Liv. xxix. 18.)The ruins of Locri are about five miles distant fromthe modern town of Gerace, which was previouslyrappsed to occupy the site of the ancient city(Cluver, I c; Barr. de Sit Calabr. iii. 7), and 15nuies from the Capo di Bruzzano, the Zephyrianpromontory. The Locrians are celebrated by Pindar (01. x. 18,xi. 19) for their devotion to the Muses as well as furtheir skill and courage in war. In accordance with thischaracter we fiud mention of Xenocritus and Kra-«ippn.«, both of them natives of Locri, as pests ofneae note; the lyric poetess Theano was probablyalw a native of the Epizephyrian Locri. (Schol. ailP'md. 01. xi. 1"; Boeckh, ad 01. x. p. 197.) ThePnragorean philosophy also was warmly taken up•ad cultivated there, though the authorities hadrefused to admit any of the political innovations oftaat philosopher. (Porpbyr. ViL Pyth. 56.) But•rant; his followers and disciples several were•atite» of Locri (IajnbL Vit. Pyth. 267), the mostaninent of whom were Timaeus, Echecrates. andAnion, from whom Plato is said to have imbibedku knowledge of the Pythagorean tenets. (Cic. deF*. v. 29.) Nor was the cultivation of other arts•eglected. Eunomus, a Locrian citizen, was cele. brated for his skill on the cithara; and the athleteEuthymus of Locri, who gained several prizes atOlympia, was scarcely less renowned than Milo ofCrotona. (Strab. vi. pp. 255, 260; Paus. vi. 6.§§ 4 — 11.) The territory of Locri, during the flourishingperiod of the city, was certainly of considerableextent. Its great augmentation by Dionysius ofSyracuse has been already mentioned. But previousto that time, it was separated from that of lihegiumon the SW. by the river Halex or Alice, while itsnorthern limit towards Caulonia was probably theSagras. generally identified with the Alaro. Theriver Buthrotus of Livy (xxix. 7), which appearsto have been but a short distance from the town,was probably the Novito, about six miles to the N.Thucydides mentions two other colonies of Locri(besides Hipponium and Medina already noticed),to which he gives the names of Itone and Melaa,but no other trace is found of either the one or theother. (Time. v. 5.) [E. H. B.] COIN OF THE LOCRI EFIZKPIIYIUI. LOCRIS (Aoiepts: Eth. Aotcpol; in Latin alsoLocri, but sometimes Locrenses). The Locri werean ancient people in Greece, and were said to havebeen descended from the Leleges. This was theopinion of Aristotle; and other writers supposed thename of the Locrians to be derived from Locrus,an ancient king of the Leleges. (Aristot.; Hes. ap.Strab. fix. p. 3*22; Scymnus Ch. 590; Dicaearch.71; Plin. iv. 7. s. 12.) The Locrians, however,must at a very early period have Iwcome inter­mingled with the Hellenes. In the Homeric poemsthey always appear as Hellenes; and, according tosome traditions, even Deucalion, the founder of theHellenic race, is said to have lived in the Locriantown of Opus or Cynus. (Find. 01. ix. 63, seq.;Strab. ix. p. 425.) In historical times the Locrianswere divided into two distinct tribes, differing fromone another in customs, habits, and civilisation. Ofthese the eastern Locrians, called the Opuntii andEpicnemidii, dwelt upon the eastern coast of Greece,opposite the isbind of Euboea; while the westernLocrians dwelt upon the Corinthian gulf, and wereseparated from the former by Mount Parnassus andthe whole of Doris and Phocis. (Strab. ix. p. 425.)The eastern Locrians are alone mentioned by Homer;they were the more ancient and the more civilised:the western Locrians, who arc said to have been acolony of the former, are not mentioned in historytill the time of the Peloponncsian War, and are eventhen represented as a semi-barbarous people. (Thue.i. 5.) We may conjecture that the Locrians at onetime extended from sea to sea, and were tornasunder by the immigration of the Phociuns andDorians. (Niebuhr, Lectures on Ancient Kymo­graphy, vol. i. p. 123.) 1. Locri Epicnemidii and Ofuntii ('Eh-ik-vquihioi, 'OxoiVr.oi), inhabited a narrow slip uponthe eastern coast of Greece, from the pass of Ther­mopylae to the mouth of the river Cephissus.