OCR Output OF THE ROMAN. EMPIRE. rant than the greater part of his cotemporaries in church and state; that his edu­cation had been directed by the learned Photius; and that several books of profaneand ecclesiastical science were composed by the pen, or in the name, of the im­perial fihilosofiher. But the reputation of his philosophy and religion was over­thrown by a domestic vice, the reputation of his nuptials. The primitive ideas ofthe merit and holiness of celibacy were preached by the monks and entertainedby the Greeks, Marriage was allowed as a necessary means for the propagationof mankind: after the death of either party, the survivor might satisfy, by a se­cond union, the weakness or the strength of the flesh; but a third marriage wascensured as a state of legal fornication; and a fourth was a sin or scandal yet un­known to the Christians of the east. In the beginning of his reign, Leo himselfhad abolished the state of concubines, and condemned without annulling, thirdmarriages; but his patriotism and love soon compelled him to violate his own laws,and to incur the penance, which in a similar case he had imposed on his subjects.In his three first alliances, his nuptial bed was unfruitful; the emperor required afemale companion: and the empire a legitimate heir. The beautiful Zoe was in­troduced into the palace as a concubine; and after a trial of her fecundity, and thebirth of Constantine, her lover declared his intention of legitimating the motherand the child, by the celebration of his fourth nuptials. But the patriarch Nicho­las refused his blessing: the imperial baptism of the young prince was obtained bya promise of separation; and the contumacious husband of Zoe was excluded fromthe communion of the faithful. Neither the fear of exile, nor the desertion of hisbrethren, nor the authority of the Latin church, nor the danger of failure or doubtin the succession to the empire, could bend the spirit of the inflexible monk. Af­ter the death of Leo, he was recalled from exile to the civil and ecclesiastical ad­ministration; and the edict of union which was promulgated in the name of Con­stantine, condemned the future scandal of fourth marriages, and left a tacit impu­tation on his own birth. In the Greek language fiurfile and fiorfihyry are the same word: and as the co­lours of nature are invariable, we may learn, that a dark deep red was the Tyriandye which stained the purple of the ancients. An apartment of the Byzantinepalace was lined with porphyry: it. was reserved for the use of the pregnant em­presses; and the royal birth of their children was expressed by the appellation ofporfihyrogenite, or born in the purple. Several of the Roman princes had beenblessed with an heir; but this peculiar surname was first applied to Constantine VELHis life and titular reign were of equal duration; but of fifty-four years, six hadelapsed before his father's death; and the son of Leo was ever the voluntary orreluctant subject of those who oppressed his weakness or abused his confidence.His uncle Alexander, who had long been invested with the title of Augustus, wasthe first colleague and governor of the young prince: but in a rapid career of viceand folly, the brother of Leo already emulated the reputation of Michael; andwhen he was extinguished by a timely death, he entertained a project of castratinghis nephew, and leaving the empire to a worthless favourite. The succeedingyears of the minority of Constantine were occupied by his mother Zoe, and a suc­cession of councils of seven regents, who pursued their interest, gratified their pas­sions, abandoned the republic, supplanted each other, and finally vanished hr the {wesence of a soldier. From an obscure origin, Romanus Lecapenus had raisedlimself to the command of the naval armies; and in the anarchy of the times, haddeserved, or at least had obtained, the national esteem. With a victorious and af­fectionate fleet, he sailed from the mouth of the Danube into the harbour of Con­stantinople, and was hailed as the deliverer of the people, and the guardian of theprince. His supreme office was at first defined by the new appellation of fatherof the emperor; but Romanus soon disdained the subordinate powers of a minister,and assumed, with the titles of Gsesar and Augustus, the full independence of roy­alty, which he held near five-and-twenty years. His three sons, Christopher,Stephen, and Constantine, were successively adorned with the same honours, andthe lawful emperor was degraded from the first to the fifth rank in this college ofprinces. Yet, in the preservation of his life-and crown, he might still applaud hisown fortune and the clemency of the usurper. The examples of ancient and modernhistory would have excused the ambition of Romanus: the powers and the laws ofthe empire were in his hand; the spurious birth of Constantine would have justi­fied his exclusion; and the grave or the monastery was open to receive the son ofthe concubine. But Lecapenus does not appear to have possessed either the virtuesor the vices of a tyrant. The spirit and activity of his private life dissolved away