OCR Output 110 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK IV. Containing an Interval of Thirty-eight Years. FROM THE REJECTION OF THAT GENERATION, TO THE DEATH OF MOSES. CHAP. I. OF THE ENGAGEMENT WHICH TOOK PLACE BETWEEN THEHEBREWS AND THE CANAANITES, WITHOUT THE CONSENTOF MOSES. THE residence of the Hebrews in thewilderness was so disagreeable to them,and they were so uneasy at it, that althoughGod had forbidden them to meddle with theCanaanites, yet could they not be persuadedto be obedient to the words of Moses, and tobe quiet; but supposing they should be ableto beat their enemies, even without his appro­bation, they accused him; and suspected thathe made it his business to keep them in adistressed condition, that they might alwaysstand in need of his assistance. Accordinglythey resolved to fight with the Canaanites,and said, that God gave them his assistance,not out of regard to their leader's interces­sions, but because he took care of their entirenation, on account of their forefathers: whoseaffairs he took under his own conduct: as alsothat it was on account of their own virtue,that he had formerly procured them theirliberty, and would assist them, now they werewilling to take pains for it. They also said,that they were of themselves of abilities suffi­cient for the conquest of their enemies, al­though Moses should have a mind to alienateGod from them; and that however it was fortheir advantage to be their own masters, andnot so far to rejoice in their deliverance fromthe indignities they endured under the Egyp­tians, as to bear the tyranny of Moses, and tosuffer themselves to be deluded, and live ac­cording to his pleasure: as though God did only foretel what concerned them, out of hiskindness to him; and as though they were notall the posterity of Abraham, and that Godmade him alone the author of all their know­ledge, and they must still learn it from him.They said it would be prudent to oppose hisarrogant pretences, and to put their confi­dence in God; and to resolve to take posses­sion of that land which he had promisedthem, and not to give ear to him, who, on thisaccount, and under the pretence of divineauthority, forbade them so to do. Consider­ing, therefore, the distressed state they werein at present, and that in those desert placesthey were still to expect things would beworse with them, they resolved to fight withthe Canaanites; as submitting only to God,their supreme commander, and not waitingfor any assistance from their legislator. When they had come to this resolution,they went against their enemies; but thoseenemies were not dismayed either at the at­tack itself, or at the great multitude that madeit: but received them with such courage, thatmany of the Hebrews were slain, and the re­mainder of the army, upon the disorder oftheir troops, were pursued, and fled after ashameful manner* to their camp. Where­upon this unexpected misfortune made themquite despond, and they hoped for nothingthat was good, as gathering from it, that thisaffliction came from the wrath of God, be­cause they rashly went out to war without hisapprobation. When Moses saw how deeply they wereaffected with this defeat, and when he was * Numb. xiv. 45.