OCR Output DEDICATION. 11 and an unhappy disposition, to prefer being caught in a theft toreturning what we have borrowed, especially when we have realizeda capital after paying ample interest for it.17 The Greeks were wonderfully happy in their titles. One workthey called Kvptov, which means the Honeycomb; another KijpajA/xaXfeaj, or Cornu copiae, so that you might expect to get evena draught of pigeon's milk from it.18 Then they have theirFlowers, their Muses, Magazines, Manuals, Gardens, Pictures,and Sketches," all of them titles for which a man might betempted even to forfeit his bail. But when you enter uponthe works, oh ye Gods and Goddesses! how full of emptiness!Our duller countrymen have simply their Antiquities, or theirExamples, or their Arts. I think one of the most humoroushas his Lamp Studies,20 a term employed by Bibaculus; aname, which he richly deserved.*1 Varro, indeed, is not muchbehind him, when he calls some of his satires A Trick anda Half, and Turning the Tables.** Diodorus was the firstamong the Greeks, who laid aside this trifling manner, and namedhis history The Library." Apion, the grammarian, indeed—he whom Tiberius Caesar called the trumpet of the world, butwho should rather seem to be the drum of common report **—sup­posed that every one to whom he inscribed any work would thenceacquire immortality. I do not regret not having given my worka more fanciful title. That I may not, however, appear so completely to inveighagainst the Greeks, I should wish to be considered under thesame point of view with those inventors of the arts of painting andsculpture, of whom you will find an account in these volumes, '" "Cum prasertim sors fiat ex usura." 18 " Lac gallinaceum;" "Proverbium de re singulari et admodum rara;"see note in Valpy, p. 184. 19 The titles in the original are given in Greek; I have inserted in thetext the words whicli the most nearly resemble them, and which have beenemployed by modern authors. 50 "Lucubratio." al The pun in the original cannot be preserved in the translation; theEnglish reader may conceive the name Bibaculus to correspond to oursurname Jolly. M "Sesculysses" and "Floxtabula;" literally Ulysses and a half andBend table. *3 "Bij3\ioeijK»j." 54 " Cymbalum mundi" and "publica; famse tympanum."