OCR Output CHAP. 53. - - . ROMAN HISTORY. 279 CHAP. LIH. A coalition of the two Orders. V ALERIUS and Horatius were then deputed withfull powers to 'conclude a treaty of pacification with-thepeople; and it was recommended to them, to take pro­per precautions, that the decemvirs might not suffer from.the rage and violence of the populace. As they wereapproachmg, they were met and ushered into the camp,with universal joy, as the deliverers of their country,by their exertions in this affair, both in setting it onfoot, and bringing it to a happy conclusion. For allwhich, they had public thanks returned them. Icilius spoke for the multitude. When they came toan explanation, the deputies desiring to be informedwith respect to the people's demands; Icilius's answer,which had been concerted before their arrival, plainlyevinced, that the people founded their pretensions morein equity, than in the arms which they had in theirhands. They insisted on the re-establishment of tri­bunes, and the right of appeal, which had been the pil­lars of their liberty, before the creation of the decemvirs,together with an amnesty for all those who had beenconcerned in advising the revolt and the secession. On­ly they insisted to have the decemvirs punished withgreat severity, making it a point, that the decemvirsshould be delivered into their hands, and they threaten­ed to burn them alive. The deputies replied; " Your claim, gentlemen,which we suppose has the general approbation, is sofair and equitable, that we come prepared to grant itof our own accord. For, it only tends to protect yourliberty, and not to promote licentiousness, to the pre­judice of others. Your resentment against the decem­virs, we must rather pardon than comply with. From.an abhorrence of cruelty, you want to give an exampleof it in your own conduct; and are for lording it overothers, before you have made sure of your own free­dom. Shall this city never see an end of our eitmity,and declared war between the senate and people?