OCR Output lxi«r NOTES ON THE FOU RTEENTH CHAPTER. pute between the sovereigns of Italy and of IUy-ricum. [88] Cibalis or Cibalse (whose name is ftil 1 pre­served in the obscure ruins of Swilei) was situatedabout fifty miles from Sirmium, the capital of illy-ricum, and about one hundred from Taurunum, orBelgrade, and the conflux of the Danube and theSave. The Roman garrisons and cities on thoserivers are finely illustrated by M. Danville, in amemoir inserted in l'Academie des Inscriptions,torn, xxviii. [S9] Zosimus; 1. ii p. go, 91.) gives a very parti­cular account of this battle; but the descriptionsof Zosimus are rhetorical rather than military. [90] Zosimus, 1 ii. p. 92, 93. Anonym Va-lelian, p. 713. The Epitomes furnish some cir­cumstances; but they frequently confound the twowars between Licinius and Constantine. [9;] Petrus Patricius in Excerpt. Legat. p. 27.If it should be thought that y^jJfot signifies moreproperly a son-in-law than a kinsman, we mightcoijecture, that Constantine, assuming the name aswell as the duties of a father, had adopted hisyounger brothers and sisters, the children of Tbe-pdora. [92] Zosimus, I ii p. ey. Anonym. Valesian,p. 713. Eutropius, x. 5. Aurelins Victor. Euseb. inChron. Sozomen. 1. i.e. 2. Fourofthese writers affirmthat the promotion of the Cæsars was an article ofthe treaty. It is however certain, that the youngerConstantine and Licinius were not yet born; and itif high'y probable that the promotion was made thel it of March, A. D. 317. The treaty had probablystipulated that two might be created by the western,and one only by the eastern emperor; but each ofthem reserved to himself the choice of the persons. [93] Codex Theodosian, 1. xi. tit. 27. torn,iv. p. 188, with Godefroy's observations. Seelikewise, 1. v. tit. 7—8. [94] Omniaforis placita, domi prospera, annonaeubertate, fructuum copi.i, &c. Panepyr. Vet. x. 38.This oration of Nazarius was pronounced on theday cf the Q^iiiquennaiia of the Cæsars, the 1st ofMarch, A. L>. 321. [o;] See the edict of Constantine, addressed tothe Roman people in the slieodosian Code, 1. ix.tit. 24. torn, iii p 189. [96] His son very fairly assigns the true reason ofthe repeal, "Ne sub specie atrocioris judieii ali-qua in ulciseendo crimine diiatio uafeeretur." Cod.Theod. torn. iii. p. 193. [97] Eufebius (in Vita Constant. 1. iii. c. 1.)chooses to affirm, that in the reign of his hero, thesword of justice hung idle in the hands of the ma­gistrates. Eufebius himself, (I. iv. c. 29. 54.) andthe Theodosian Code, will inform us, that this ex­cessive lenity was not owing to the want either ofatrocious criminals or of penal laws. [98] Nazarius in Panegyr. Vet. x. The victoryof Crispus over the Alemanni, is expressed on fumemedals. [99] See Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 93, 94. Though thenarrative of that Historian is neither clear nor con­sistent. The Panegyric ofOptatianus (c. 23.) men­tions the alliance of the Sarmatiaos with the Carpsand Gctæ, and points out the several fields of battle.It is supposed, ch t the Sarmatian games, celebratedin the month of November, derived their origin froathe success of this war. [100] In the C.tsars of Julian (p. 329 Commen-taire de Spanhcim, p. 252 ) Constantine boasts,that he had recovered the province (Dacia), whichTrajan had subdued. But it is insinuated by Silenus,that the conquests of Constantine were like thegardens of Adonis, which fade and wither almostthe moment they appear. [toi] Jornandes de Rebus Geticis, c. 21. I knownot whether we may entirely depend on his authority.Such an alliance has a very recent air, and scarcelyis suited to the maxims of the beginning of ;hefourth century. [102] Eufebius in Vit. Constantine, I, i. c. 8.This passage, however, is taken from a general de­clamation on the greatness of Constantine, and notfrom any particular account of the Gothic war. [103] Constantinus tamen vir ingens, et omniaefficere nitens quæ animo præparasict; simul prin-cipatum totius orbis affectans Licinio bellum intulic.Eutropius, x. 5. Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 89. The reasonswhich they have assigned for the first civil war may,with more propriety, be applied to the second. [1C4] Zosimus, 1. ii, p. 94, 95, [105] Con-