OCR Output 186 LIGURIA. LIGUTUA. Monaco, while the main chain of the same moun­tains, turning off from the general direction of thecentral chain of the Alps near the sources of theYar (Varus), is prolonged in a lofty and ruggedrange til) it reaches the sea between Noli and Savona.The lateral ranges and offidioots which descend fromtlicse mountains to the sea" occupy the whole line ofcoast from Monaco to Sarorui. Hence this line hasalways been one where there has been much diffi­culty in making and maintaining a practicable road.It was not till the reign of Augustus that theltomans carried a highway from Vail a Sabbata toAntipolis; and in the middle ages, when the Itomanroads had fallen into decay, the whole of this line ofcoast became proverbial for the difficulty of its com-munications. (Dante, Purg. iii. 49.) From theneighbourhood of Vada Sabbata, or Savona, where theAlps may be considered to end and the A|>cnnines tobegin, the latter chain of mountains runs nearlyjarallel with the coast of Liguria throughout itswhole extent as far as the river Macra; and thoughthe range of the Apennines is far inferior in elevationto that of the Maritime Alps, they nevertheless con­stitute a mountain mass of a rugged and difficultcharacter, which leaves scarcely any level space be­tween the foot of the mountains and the sea. Thenorthern declivity of the Apennines is less abrupt,ami the mountains gradually subside into ranges ofsteep wooded hills as they approach the plains of theJ*o: but for this very reason the space occupied bythe mountainous and hilly tract is more extensive,and constitutes a broad belt or hand varying from15 to .'10 miles in width. The narrowest portion ofthe range, as well as one of the lowest, is immedi­ately at the back of Genoa, and for that reason thepass from that city to Dertona was in ancient aswell as modern times one of the principal lines ofcommunication with the interior. Another naturalpass is marked out by a depression in the ridge be­tween the Maritime Alps and Apennines, which iscrossed by the road from Savona to Cera. This lineof road communicates with the plain at the X. footof the Maritime Alps, extending from the neighbour­hood of Cvtti and Mondavi to that of Twin, whichis one of the most extensive tracts of fertile andlevel country comprised within the limits of theancient Liguria. K. of this, the hills of the Astigi-ana and Mwf'trrat extend from the foot of theAlt-unities (of the northern slojies of which they are,in fact, a mere continuation) quite to the bank of theJ'o; but are of moderate elevation and constitute afertile country. Beyond these, again, another tract ofplain occurs, but of less extent; fur though it runstar up into the mountains near Aorr, it is soonhemmed in again by the hills which descend to7'"rtona (l)ertona), Yitglnra (lria), and CatUyyio(Clastidium), so aa to leave but a narrow atrip ofplain between them and the hanks of the Pa, The physical features of Liguria naturally exer-c'ii*d a marked influence on the character and habitsof its inhabitants. It was with the tribes who occu­pied the U-fty snd rugged ranges of the A]cnninesK. of the Macra (where these mountains rise to amuch greater elevation, and assume a much moreAlpine character, than in any part of Liguria proper)that the Romans waged their longest and most ob­stinate contests; but all the tribes who inhabited theupper valleys of the central chain, and the steep sndrugged declivities of the A) en nines towards the seaTpartook of the same hardy and warlike character.On the other hand, the Stuticlli, Ya^icuni, and other tribes who occupied the more fertile hills snd rslierjon the N. declivity of the ApcimiiteA. were evidri\.treduced with comparatively little difficulty. It is lathe former portion of the Ligurian people that tb*character and description of them which we find uiancient writers may be considered almost exclusivelyto apply. Strabo says that they dwelt in scstteredvillages, tilling the soil with difficulty, on Seconal ofits rugged and barren character, so that they Ili'almost to quarry rather than dig it. But their th.«:subsistence was derived from their herds, which »lj-phed them with flesh, cheese, and milk ; and tbrimode a kind of drink from barley. Their mountainsalso supplied timber in great abundance and of thelargest size. Genua was their principal empicium,ami thither they brought, for export, timber, caltV,hides, and honey, in return for which they receivedwine and oil. (Strab. iv. p. 202, v. p. 218; Diod.v. 39. ) In the days of the geographer they pro­duced but little wine, and that of bad quality ; butPliny speaks of the Ligurian wines with commenia-tion. (Strab. p. 202; Plin.xiv. 6.s. 8.) The natureof their country and the life they led inured them tohardships (" assuetnm malo Ligurem," Virg. G. it168; "Ligurcs montani duri et agrestes," Cie. aVJjfa. Ayr. ii. 35) ; and they were distinpiished fortheir agility, which admirably fitted them for tiecliase, as well as for the kind of predatory wariaitwhich they so long maintained against the Humane.Cato gave them the character of being treachtrctmand deceitful,—an opinion which teem* to have beesgoner ally adopted by the Romans (Serv. ad Aem.xL700, 71ft), and must naturally have grown up frotithe nature of the wars between them; but tbriappear to have served faithfully, as well as braver*.in the service of the Greeks and Carthaginians, *•mercenaries, and. at a later period, as auxiliaries mthose of Home. (Diod. v. 39; I'lut. Mar. 19 ; Toe.Hist, ii. 14.) The troops they furnished were almostexclusively infantry, and, for the most {art, liarbt-armed : they excelled particularly as slingers^lVad -Arist. Mirab. 90); but their regular infantry car­ried oblong shields of brass, resembling those of theGreeks. (I>iod. I.e.; Strab. iv. p. 202.) Donrrthe period of their independence, they t»ol only matVplundering incursions by land into the neighUurii-ccountries, but carried on piracy by sea to a cocsidtr-able extent, and wet* distinguished for their tardi­ness and dating as navigators, as well as in all laeirother pursuits. (Diod. v. 39; Liv. xL 18, 28.) Tbrmountain tribes resembled the Gauls and Ganain the custom of wearing their hair Ions; ; onwiuiLaccount the wilder tril-es, which were the) Last t«maintain their independence, were known as theLigurcs Capillati orOnmti (Aryvir Ko#*irvai, I»*«.Cass. liv. 24; Win. iii. 20. a. 24; Lucan, L 442);and the cropping their hair wis regarded as a peWof their subjection to Home. Among tic n.ore [4-culinr natural production* <■Liguria are noticed a breed of dwarf bortrs «i>mules, called by the Gie»ks yifvoi ; and a kiad «fmineral resembling amber, called hf}*foip*mw. a L* iappears to have been confounded by Tbeojiirastu*with genuine amber. (Strab. iv. p. 202; *llssvfs\r.de lajiid. §§ 28, 29.) The Ligurians were divided, like most aattirsst ma similar state of society, into a number of trie**,which a]]-ear to have bad little, if any, pnbtw.Ibond of union beyond the temporary alliance* whu .they might form fur warlike objects ; and it is «ii-deutt from the account of the wars carried an It