OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. factured silk which they transported into Persia for theuse of the Roman empire. In the vain capital of China,the Sogdian caravans were entertained as the suppliantembassies of tributary kingdoms, and if they returned insafety, the bold adventure was rewarded with exorbitantgain. But the difficulty and perilous march from Sa-marcand to the first town of Shensi, could not be per­formed in less than sixty, eighty, or one hundred days:as soon as they had passed the Jazartes, they entered thedesert; and the wandering hordes, unless they are re­strained by armies and garrisons, have always consideredthe citizen and the traveller as the objects of lawfulrapine. To escape the Tartar robbers, and the tyrantsof Persia, the silk caravans explored a more southernroad; they traversed the mountains of Thibet, de­scended the streams of the Ganges or the Indus, andpatiently expected, in the ports of Guzerat and Mala­bar, the annual fleets of the west.2 But the dangers ofthe desert were found less intolerable than toil, hunger,and the loss of time; the attempt was seldom renewed,and the only European, who has passed that unfrequentedway, applauds his own diligence, that, in nine monthsafter his departure from Pekin, he reached the mouthof the Indus. The ocean, however, was open to thefree communication of mankind. From the great riverto the tropic of Cancer, the provinces of China were sub­dued and civilized by the emperors of the north; theywere filled about the time of the Christian era withcities and men, mulberry-trees and their precious in­habitants; and if the Chinese, with the knowledge ofthe compass, had possessed the genius of the Greeks orPhoenicians, they might have spread their discoveriesover the southern hemisphere. I am not qualified toexamine, and I am not disposed to believe, their distant z The roads from China to Persia and Hindostan may be investigated in the rela­tions of Hacklayt and -Thevenot. (the amhassadors of Sharokh, Anthony Jenkiusmi,the I'ere Grenber, &o. See likewise Hanway's Travels, vol. 1. p. 345—357.) Acommunication through Thibet has been lately explored by the English sovereigns ofBengal.