OCR Output an. 226.] 431 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tion out of Babylon into Phrygia. The epistlewas this: XING ANTIOCHUS, TO ZEUXIS HIS FATHER, SEND-ETH GREETING. "If thou be in good health, it is well: for Iam also in health. Having been informedthat a sedition is arisen in Lydia and Phrygia,I thought that matter required great care.And upon advising with my friends what wasfit to be done, it hath been thought proper toremove two thousand families of Jews, withtheir effects, out of Mesopotamia and Baby­lon, unto the castles and places that lie mostconvenient. For I am persuaded that theywill be well disposed guardians of our pos­sessions; because of their piety towards God;and because I know that my predecessorshave borne witness to them, that they arefaithful, and with alacrity perform what theyare desired. I will therefore, though it be alaborious work, that thou remove these Jews:under a promise that they shall be permittedto use their own laws. And when thou shalthave brought them to the aforementioned {daces, thou shalt give every one of theiramilies a place for building their houses, anda portion of land for their husbandry, and forthe plantation of their vines: and thou shaltdischarge them from paying taxes of thefruits of the earth, for ten years. And letthem have a proper quantity of wheat for themaintenance of their servants, until they re­ceive bread-corn out of the earth. And leta sufficient share be given to such as ministerto them in the necessaries of life: that byenjoying the effects of our humanity, theymay shew themselves the more willing andready about our affairs. Take care also ofthat nation, as far as thou art able; that theymay not have any disturbance given them byany one."'" Now these testimonials which I have'pro-duced, are sufficient to declare the friend­ship that Antiochus the Great bare to theJews. CHAP. IV. OF A LEAGUE BETWEEN ANTIOCHUS AND PTOLEMY J THEOFFENCE GIVEN TO PTOLEMY EUERGETES BY 0NIAS JTHE PRUDENT CONDUCT OF JOSEPH J AND THE AFFAIRSOF HIS SON HYRCANU8. AFTER this, Antiochus made a friend­ship and a league with Ptolemy; andgave him his daughter Cleopatra to wife,*and yielded up to him Coelesyria, Samaria,Judea, and Phoenicia, by way of dowry. Andupon the division of the taxes between thetwo kings, all the principal men farmed thetaxes of their several countries; and, collect­ing the sum that was settled for them, paidthe same to the two kings. Now at this timethe Samaritans were in a nourishing con­dition, and much distressed the Jews: cut­ting off part of their land, and carrying offslaves. This happened when Onias washigh-priest. For after Eleazar's death, hiauncle Manasseh took the priesthood: andafter he had ended his life, Onias receivedthat dignity. He was the son of Simon, whowas called the Just; which Simon was thebrother of Eleazar, as I fsaid before. ThisOnias was one of a little soul, and a greatlover of money: and for that reason, becausehe did not pay that tax of twenty talents ofsilver, which his forefathers paid to thesekings, out of their own estates, he provokedking Ptolemy Euergetes to anger; who wasthe father of Philopator. This Euergetessent an ambassador to Jerusalem, and com­plained that Onias did not pay his taxes; andthreatened that if he did not receive them,he would seize upon their land, and sendsoldiers to live upon it. When the Jews heardthis message of the king's, they were con­founded. But so sordidly covetous was Onias,that nothing of this nature made him ashamed.There was now one Joseph,J young in agebut of great reputation among the people ofJerusalem, for gravity, prudence, and justice.His father's name was Tobias, and his motherwas the sister of Onias, the high-priest: whoinformed him of the coming of the ambas­sador: for he was then sojourning at a vil­lage named Phicol,|| where he was born, * Spanheim notes here, that thh marriage of Ptolemyjyith Cleopatra is related by Appian, in bis Syriaca, p. 88.t Chap. Ill, t About an. 226. ft The name of this place, Phicol, is the very samewith that of the chief captain of Abimelech's host in the