OCR Output 440 TITUS UVIUS' Boon V. made of it, which was to be carried to Delphi, as a pre­sent to Apollo. No sooner was the business of the vow settled, thanthe tribunes of the commons began to stir again. Themultiiude were enraged at the whole body of the nobi­lity, but especially at Camillus. In their absence theyexclaimed prodigiously, that by their sequestrations andtheir consecrations, they had reduced the spoils of Veitto nothing. In their presence, they bs-haved with moredelicacy, as they never seemed to avoid, but rather throwthemselves in their way, when they were disposed to bein a passion. Finding the matter was not like to be de­termined for this year, they chose again to the Plebeiantrihune-ihip, the same men who had preferred the bill;and the senators used all their influence to do the sameby those who had opposed it; so that there was littlechange in the college. CHAP. XXVt •' Camilku marches against the Falisci. Drives them intotheir city, which he besieges, Jt3Y an extraordinary exertion of their interest, the fa­thers prevailed in the Comitia for electing military tri­bunes, to have Caraillus chosen to he one of them. Theypretended, that they wanted an able general for thewar, but their real aim was, to provide themselves in achampion fit to enter the lists with the tribunes of thecommons, who were violently bent on the partition ofthe lauds of Veii contended for. With Camillus, were chosen for military tribunes, L.Furius Medullinus, a sixth, C. /F.milius, L. Valerius Pop-licola, Sp. Posthuiuius, and P. Cornelius, a second time.In the beginning of the year, the tribunes of the peoplemade no stir, till M. Furius Camillus, who was chargedwith the war against the Falisci, should take the -field,and even then they made but little progress, owing totheir delays: whilst Camillus, their roost formidable ad­versary, acquired new glory by his conduct in the warwith the Falisci. The enemy for some time kept themselves shu' up inFalisci, till the devastations made by <he Romans, in the