OCR Output 262 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. live in the management of affairs, and one that recovered the go­vernment to Hyrcanus, and preserved it in his hands. 5. ^However, Maliclms, when he Was suspected of poisoningAntipater, and when the multitude was angry with him for it, de­nied it, and made the people believe he was not guilty. He alsoprepared to make a greater figure, and raised soldiers ; for he didnot suppose that Herod would be quiet, who indeed came uponhim with an army presently, in order to revenge his father'sdeath ; but, upon hearing the advice of his brother Phasaelus,not to punish him in an open manner, lest the multitude shouldfall into a sedition, he admitted of Malichus's apology, and pro-ifessed that he cleared him of the suspicion ; he also made a pom­pous funeral for his father. 6. So Herod went to Samaria, which was then in a tumult,and settled the city in peace; after which, at the [Pentecost}festival, he returned to Jerusalem, having his armed men withhim : hereupon Hyrcanus, at the request of Malichus, who fear­ed his reproach, forbade them to introduce foreigners to mixthemselves with the people of the country, while they were pu­rifying themselves ; but Herod despised the pretence, and himthat gave that command, and came in by night. Upon whichMalichus came to him, and bewailed Antipater; Herod alsomade him believe [he admitted of his lamentations as real], al­though he had much ado to restrain his passion at him ; however,he did himself bewail the murder of his father, in his letters toCassius, who, on other accounts, also hated Malichus ; Cassiussent him word back tha£,'he should avenge his father's death uponhim, and privately gave order to the tribunes that were under him,that they should assist Herod in a righteous action he was about. T. And because, upon the taking of Laodicea by Cassius, themen of power were gotten together from all quarters, with pre­sents and crowns in their hands, Herod allotted this time for thepunishment of Malichus. When Malichus suspected that, andwas- at Tyre, he resolved to withdraw his son privately from a-rr.ong the Tynans, who was an hostage there, while he got readyto fly away into Judea ; the despair he was in of escaping, ex­cited him to think of greater things ; for he hoped that he shouldraise the nation to a revolt from the Romans, while Cassius wasbusy about the war against Antony, and that he should easilydepose Hyrcanus, and get the crown for himself. , 8. But fate laughed ct'the hopes he had ; for Herod foresawwhat he vyassp icalqus about, and invited both Hyrcanus and himto supper ; , but calling one of the principal servants that stood byhim, to him, he sent him out, as though it Xvere to get things rea­dy for supper, but in reality to give notice beforehand, about the plot