OCR Output 434 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. which stood in the citadel 'of Veii. Some attacked thesoldiers behind as they defended the walls; some un­barred the gates; and some of them, whilst they werepelted from the house tops with stones and tiles by thewomen and slaves, set .fire to the houses. The wholecity resounded with the shouts of the invaders, and criesof the besieged, mingled with the shrieks and lamenta­tions of women and children. In an instant, the wallswere cleared of those who defended them, and the gatesbroke open, when part of the Roman army entered inwhole battalions, others scaled the deserted ramparts, sothat the city soon swarmed with enemies, and the battleraged in every quarter. However, after a prodigiousslaughter, it began to subside, when the dictator orderedthe heralds to proclaim quarter to all who should laydown their arms. Here the slaughter ended, and the surrender of the un­armed multitude commenced: then also, with permissionof the dictator, the soldiers fell to plunder. When Ca-millus had ocular demonstration,- that the spoils, both inquantity and value, far surpassed what he had ever ex­pected or imagined, he is said to have lifted up his bandsto heaven, praying, ' that if the good fortune of the • Roman people, or his own, appeared too great in th» • sight of gods or men, that the envy thereof might fall'upon him, but to spare the commonwealth.' It is fur­ther added, that as he was turning round, after this.prayer, that he fell on the ground; an accident construedby some to presage his condemnation, after it had reallyhappened, and the destruction of Rome, after it was takenby the Gauls: both these events happened a few yearsafter. Thus was that day spent in slaughtering the Ve-jentes, and plundering their most opulent city. CHAP. XXII.Murmurs against Camillta, Juno brought to Rome. EXT day, the dictator exposed the freemen to publiesale, the proceeds whereof alone were set apart for thepublic treasury. At this the people took great oflence,alledging, that what plunder they carried home with.them, they had no reason to ascribe to the general,