OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 325 perils, both of the sea, and of the shore: their skill chap.was confirmed by the habits of enterprise; the meanest xx'of their mariners was alike capable of handling anoar, of rearing a sail, or of conducting a vessel;and the Saxons rejoiced in the appearance of a tem­pest, which concealed their design, and dispersed thefleets of the enemy *. After they had acquired anaccurate knowledge of the maritime provinces ofthe West, they extended the scene of their depreda­tions, and the most sequestered places had no reasonto presume on their security. The Saxon boatsdrew so little water, that they could easily proceedfourscore or a hundred miles up the great rivers;their weight was so inconsiderable, that they weretransported on waggons from one river to another;and the pirates who had entered the mouth of theSeine, or of the Rhine, might descend, with therapid stream of the Rhone, into the Mediterranean.Under the reign of Valentinian, the maritime pro- a. d 371.vinces of Gaul were afflicted by the Saxons: a mili­tary count was stationed for the defence of the sea-coast, or Armorican limit; and that officer, whofound his strength, or his abilities, unequal to thetask, implored the assistance of Severus, master-ge­neral of the infantry. The Saxons, surrounded andout-numbered, were forced to relinquish their spoil,and to yield a select band of their tall and robustyouth to serve in the Imperial armies. They stipu­lated only a safe and honourable retreat: and thecondition was readily granted by the Roman general;who meditated an act of perfidy, imprudent as itwas inhuman, while a Saxon remained alive, and inarms, to revenge the fate of his countrymen. Thepremature eagerness of the infantry, who were se- * The best original account of the Saxon pirates may be found in SidoniusApollinaris (1. viii. epist. 6. p. 223. edit. Sirmond.), and the best cornmentary inthe Abbe du Bos (Hist. Critique de la Monarchie Francoise, &c. torn. i. 1. 1.c. 16. p. 148—155.) Y 3