OCR Output 298 Book t. WARS OF THE JEWS. CHAP. XVII. The death of Joseph, [Herod's brother], which had been signifiedto Herod in dreams. How Herod was preserved twice, after, a wonderful manner. He cuts off'the head, of Pappus, who wasthe murderer of his brother, and sends that head to [his otherbrother] Pheroras. Andin no long time he besieges Jerusalem,and marries Mariamne. } 1. TN the mean time Herod's affairs in Judea were in an illX state. He had left his brother Joseph with full power,but had charged him to make no attempts against Antigonus, tillhis return; for that Macheraswould not be such an assistantas hecould depend on, as it appeared by what he had done already ;but as soon as Joseph heard that his brother was at a very greatdistance, he neglected the charge he had received, and marchedtowards Jericho with five cohorts, which Macheras sent with,him. This movement was intended for seizing on the corn, asit was now in the midst of summer ; but when his enemies at­tacked him in the mountains, and in places which were difficultto pass,he was both killed himself, as he was very bravely fightinginthebattle,andtheentireRomancohortswere destroyed; forthesecohorts were new-raised men, gathered out of Syria, and therewas no mixture of those called veteran soldiers among them,who might have supported those that were unskilful in war. 2. This victory was not sufficient for Antigonus, but he pro­ceeded to that degree of rage, as to treat the dead body of Jo­seph barbarously: for when he had gotten possession of the bodiesof those'that were slain, he cut off his head, although his brotherPheroras would have given fifty talents as a price of redemptionfor it. And now the affairs of Galilee were put in such disorderafter this victory of Antigonus's that those of Antigonus's partybrought the principal men that were on Herod's side to the lake,and there drowned them. There was a great change made alsoin Idumea, where Macheras was building a wall about one ofthe fortresses, which was called Gittha. But Herod had notyet been informed of these things ; for after the taking of Samc-sata, and when Antony had set Sosius over the affairs of Syria,and given him orders to assist Herod against Antigonus, he de­parted into Egypt; but Sosius sent two legions before him intoJudea, to assist Herod, and followed himself soon after with therest of his army. 3. Now when Herod was atDaphne, by Antioch, he had somedreams which clearly foreboded his brother's death, and as heleaped outof hisbedin a disturbedmanner,therecame messengersthat acquainted him with that calamity. So whenhe had lament­ed