OCR Output LUCERIA. 211 LUCRETILIS MONS. after an obstinate resistance, made himself master ofthe city, which was defended by a garrison of above7000 Sammies. (Id. ix. 12—15.) Besides re­covering the hostages, he obtained an immense booty,so that Lnceria was evidently at this period anourishing city, and Diodorus (xix. 72) calls it themost important place in Apulia. A few years after(B.C. 314), the city was again betrayed into thehands of the Samnites; but was quickly recoveredby the Romans, who put the greater part of theinhabitants to the sword, and sent thither a body of2500 colonists to supply their place. (Id. ix. 26;Veil. Pat. i. 14; Diod xix. 72.) The possessionof so important a stronghold in this part of thecountry became of material service to the Romans inthe subsequent operations of the war (Diod. /. c);and in B. c, 294, the Samnites having laid siege to it.the Kuman consul Atilius advanced to its relief, anddefeated the Samnites in a great battle. Accordingto another account, Luceria afforded shelter to theflattered remnants of the consul's army after hehad sustained a severe defeat, (Liv. x. 35, 37.) Not less important was the part which Luceriabore in the Second Punic War. The establishmentof this powerful colony in a military position of theutmost importance, was of signal advantage to theKonuns during all their operations in Apulia; and it»as repeatedly chosen as the place where theirarmies took up their-winter quarters, or their gene­rals established their head-quarters during successiveesmpaijiis in Apulia. (Liv. xxii. 9, xxiii. 37, xxiv.3. 14.20; Pol iii. 88, 100.) But though it wastins exposed to a more than ordinary share of thesufferings of the war, Luceria was nevertheless oneof the eighteen Latin colonies which in B. c. 209eiprersed their readiness to continue their contri­butions, both of men ami money, and which in con­tinence received the thanks of the senate for theirfidelity. (Liv. xxvii. 10.) I'rom this time we meet with no notice of Luceriatill near the close of the Roman Republic; but it ap­pears from the manner in which Cicero speaks of it{pro ChmL 69) that it was in his time still oneof the most considerable towns in this part of Italy;aid intbrCivil War between Caesar and Pompey, it iserident that much importance was attached to itspK**ion by the latter, who for some time made ith's head-quarters before he retired to Brundusium.(Cats. B. C. i. 24; Cic. ad Alt. vii. 12, viii. 1; Ap-!«in, B. C. ii. 38.) Strabo speaks of Luceria aslaving fall™ into decay, like Canusium and Arpi('i. p 284): but this can only be understood inwmparifon with its former presumed greatness; forit «nra certain that it was still a considerable town,afal ate of the few in this part of Italy that retainedtheir prosperity under the Roman Empire. Plinytains it a Colonia, and it had therefore probably re­ceived a fresh colony under Augustus (Plin. iii. 11.f-M.Lib. Colon, p.210; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 349).Its colonial rank is also attested by inscriptions(M.«nm«en, /n»cr. R. N. pp. 50, 51); and from theTabula it would appear to have been in the 4th cen­tury one of the most considerable cities of Apulia(Too. Pent., where the indication of a great building»i:h the name " Praetorium Laverianum" evidentlypsuits to the residence of some provincial magistrate).fc*en after the fall of the Roman Empire Lucerial^i? retained its prosperity, and is enumerated inti* 7th century by P. Diaconus among the ''• nrbes■t'w oj.nlentas" which still remained in Apulia.(P. Diac. iL 21.) But in a. d. G63 it was taken by the emperor Constans II. from the Lombards, andutterly destroyed (Id. v. 7). Nor does it appear tohave recovered this blow till it was restored by theemperor Frederic II. in 1227. The modern city ofLucera still retains its episcopal see and about12,000 inhabitants. It occupies the ancient site, ona hill of considerable elevation (one of the last under-falls of the Ajjennines) overlooking the extorsiveand fertile plains of Apulia. I.ivy speaks of it assituated in the plain (" urhs sita in piano," ix. 26);but if this was the case with the Apulian city, theRoman colony must have been removed to the heightsabove, as existing remains leave no doubt that theancient city occupied the same site with the modernone. The remains of buildings are not of much im­portance, but numerous inscriptions, fragments ofsculpture, &c. have been found there. The inscrip­tions are collected by Mommsen (Inscr. Regn. Seap.pp. 50—54). The neighbourhood of Luceria was ce­lebrated in ancient, as it still is in modem, times forthe abundance and excellence of its wool (Hor.Carm. iii. 15. 14), an advantage which was indeedcommon to all the neighbouring district of Apulia.(Strab. vi. p. 284; Plin. viii. 48; K. Craven, SouiA-ern Tour, p. 45.) Ptolemy writes the name Nuceria; and that this isnot merely an error of the MSS. in our existingcopies is shown by the circumstance that the epithetApula is added to it (Novnipia 'AirovAwy, Ptol. iii.1. § 72), as if to distinguish it from other towns ofthe name. Appian also writes the name Nouxcpia(if. C. ii. 38): and the same confusion between A'o-cera and Lucera occurs perpetually in the middleages. But the correctness of the orthography ofLuceria is well established by inscriptions and coins.The latter which have the name Lovceki inRoman characters are certainly not earlier than theestablishment of the Roman colony. [E. H. B.] COIN OF LliCEUIA. LI'CEIUM. [Bi.ucivm.]LUCENSES, CALLAICI. [Gm.i.at.cia.]LTJCENTUM (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4; Lucentia, Mela,ii. 6. § 6; AoiweVrot t) AovKtvror, Ptol. ii. 6. § 14:Alicante), a city on the sea-coast of the Contestini,in Hispania Tarraconensis, with the Latin franchise.(Marco, Ifitp. ii. 6: Ukert. ii. 1. p. 403 ) [P. S.]LUCl'NAE OPP1DUM. [Iijtiiyia.]I.UCOPII1IA (AourajriSfo), in North Britain,mentioned by Ptolemy, (ii. 3) as one of the towns ofthe Novantae (Galloway), Rhetiponinm being theother. Probably, this lay on Luce Bay, in Wig-tomhire. The Monvmenta Britannica suggestsBrmiqhtern. and Whiten*. [R. G- L.] LUCRETILIS MONS (M<mte Ccnnaro), amountain in the land of the Sabines. whose name isknown to us only from the mention of it by Horace,who calls it " the pleasant Lucretilis," whose shadescould allure Faunus himself from Monnt Lycaeum.(Hor. Carm. i. 17.) It is evident from the expres­sions of the poet that it was in the immediate neigh-