OCR Output 64 SILVER VESSELS. lot of slaves, or which even kings themselves have not been ableto attain! 48. WHEN THE ROMANS FIRST GAVE LARGESSES. The Roman people began to give largesses in the consulship ofSp. Postumius and Q. Martius. Money was then so plentiful,that a sum was given to L. Scipio, with which he institutedpublic games. With respect to the copper sextans, which wascollected for the funeral of Agrippa Menenius, I do not regard itas a largess, but as done in honour of him, and what was renderednecessary by his poverty. 49. OF LUXURY IN SILVER VESSELS. The wonderful fickleness of the human mind is perpetuallyvarying the forms of our silver vessels, never long together approv­ing of any one kind; now adopting the Firmian pattern, now theClodian, nowtheGratian; for we give the names of the silversmithsto our sideboards.' Next we search after chased vessels,4 with de­signs engraven on them. We likewise place our dishes upon stands,sand we cut away their sides in order that they may hold the pro­visions, and they are considered the more valuable the more theyaTe filed away. Calvus, the orator, complained that our cookingutensils were made of silver; but we have ornamented even ourchariots with chased silver; and, in our own times, Poppasa, thewife of the Emperor Nero, had the shoes of her favourite mulesmade of gold. 50. EXAMPLES OF ANCIENT FRUGALITY IN THE USE OF SILVER. The second Africanus left his heir only 32 lbs. weight of silver.The same individual, when he triumphed over the Carthaginians,transmitted to the treasury 4,380 lbs. weight of silver. This wasthe total amount of silver possessed by Carthage, that rival of thewhole earth; but in these days how many services for the tablehave exceeded this sum! After the destruction of Numantium, 3 Martial gives us a curious list of the different kinds of silver vessels thatwere the most esteemed when he wrote; Epig. iv. 38.* " Anaglypta," avayXvirra, coelata. 5 " Repositoria;" "supports pour les plats;" French trans, t. x. p. 619.