OCR Output C. IX.] SIMON OF GBRASA. 139 which was barren. In short, there was no sign remainingof those places that had been laid waste that ever they hadhad a being. 8. This success of Simon excited the zealots afresh; andthough they were afraid to fight him openly in a fair battle,yet did they lay ambushes in the passes, and seized upon hiswife, with a considerable number of her attendants ; where足upon they came back to the city rejoicing, as if they hadtaken Simon himself captive, and were in present expectationthat he would lay down his arms, and make supplication tothem for his wife ; but instead of indulging any merciful affec足tion, he grew very angry at them for seizing his beloved wife;so he came to the wall of Jerusalem, and, like wild beasts whenthey are wounded and cannot overtake those that woundedthem, he vented his spleen upon all persons that he met with.Accordingly, he caught all those that were come out of thecity gates, either to gather herbs or sticks, who were unarmedand in years ; he then tormented them and destroyed them,out of the immense rage he was in, and was almost ready totaste the very flesh of their dead bodies. He also cut off thehands of a great many, and sent them into the city to astonishhis enemies, and in order to make the people fall into asedition, and desert those that had been the authors of hiswife's seizure. He also enjoined them to tell the people, thatSimon swore by the God of the universe, who sees all things,that unless they will restore him his wife, he will break downtheir wall, and inflict the like punishment upon all the citizens,without sparing any age, and without making any distinctionbetween the guilty and the innocent. These threatenings sogreatly affrighted not the people only, but the zealots them足selves also, that they sent his wife back to him, when he be足came a little milder, and left off his perpetual blood-shedding. 9. But now sedition and civil war prevailed not only overJudea, but in Italy also; for now Galba was slain in the midstof the Roman market-place; then was Otho made emperor,and fought against Vitellius, who set up for emperor also, forthe legions in Germany had chosen him. But when he gavebattle to Valens and Cecinna, who were Vitcllius's generals