OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 481 perial figure appeared in new and more gorgeous ap- chap.parel, and the interview was concluded in haughty XLI-and majestic silence. In this honest and curiousnarrative the bishop of Cremona respresents the cere­monies of the Byzantine court, which are still prac­tised in the sublime Porte, and which were preservedin the last age by the dukes of Muscovy or Russia.After a long journey by the sea and land, from Ve­nice to Constantinople, the ambassador halted at thegolden gate, till he was conducted by the formal officersto the hospitable palace prepared for his reception;but this palace was a prison, and his jealous keepersprohibited all social intercourse either with strangersor natives. At his first audience, he offered the giftsof his master, slaves, and golden vases, and costlyarmour. The ostentatious payment of the officersand troops displayed before his eyes the riches of theempire: he was entertained at a royal banquet, inwhich the ambassadors of the nations were marshalledby the esteem or contempt of the Greeks: from hisown table, the emperor, as the most signal favour, sentthe plates which he had tasted; and his favouriteswere dismissed with a robe of honour. In the morn­ing and evening of each day, his civil and military ser­vants attended their duty in the palace; their labourwas repaid by the sight, perhaps by the smile, of theirlord; his commands were signified by a nod or asign: but all earthly greatness stood silent and submis­sive in his presence. In his regular or extraordinary Proces.processions through the capital, he unveiled his per- and accia-son to the public view: the rites of policy were con- ma lons-nected with those of religion, and his visits to theprincipal churches were regulated by the festivals ofthe Greek calendar. On the eve of these processions,the gracious or devout intention of the monarch wasproclaimed by the heralds. The streets were clearedand purified; the pavement was strewed with flowers;the most precious furniture, the gold and silver plate, VOL. IV. i i