OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 231 merly introduced to check the abuse of manumis- chap.sions, and the too rapid increase of vile and indigent XXXVILRomans, he finally abolished; and the spirit of hislaws promoted the extinction of domestic servitude.Yet the eastern provinces were filled, in the time ofJustinian, with multitudes of slaves, either born orpurchased for the use of their masters; and the price,from ten to seventy pieces of gold, was determinedby their age, their strength, and their education.But the hardships of this dependent state were con­tinually diminished by the influence of governmentand religion; and the pride of a subject was nolonger elated by his absolute dominion over the lifeand happiness of his bondsman. The law of nature instructs most animals to cherish Fathers andand educate their infant progeny. The law of reasoncinculcates to the human species the returns of filialpiety. But the exclusive, absolute, and perpetualdominion of the father over his children, is peculiarto the Roman jurisprudence*, and seems to be coevalwith the foundation of the city. The paternal powerwas" instituted or confirmed by Romulus himself;and after the practice of three centuries, it was in­scribed on the fourth table of the Decemvirs. In theforum, the senate, or the camp, the adult son of aRoman citizen enjoyed the public and private rightsof a person: in his father's house, he was a merething; confounded by the laws with the moveables,the cattle, and the slaves, whom the capricious master -might alienate or destroy, without being responsibleto any earthly tribunal. The hand which bestowedthe daily sustenance might resume the voluntarygift, and whatever was acquired by the labour or fOr- » See the patria potestas in the Institutes (1. i. tit. iv.), the Pandects (1. i. tit. vi.vii.) and the Code (1. viii. tit. xlvii. xlviii. xlix.). Jus potestatis quod in liberoshabemus proprium est civium Romanorum. Nulli enini alii sunt homines, quitalem in liberos habeant potestatem qualem nos habemus. Q 4