OCR Output 472 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. pho, when he should come against them.He then called the people together into thetemple; and thence began thus to encouragethem: "O my countrymen, you are not ignorantthat our father, myself, and my brethren, haveventured to hazard our lives, and that wil­lingly, for the recovery of your liberty. Since1 have therefore such plenty of examples be­fore me, and we of our family have deter­mined with ourselves to die for our laws, andour divine worship; there shall no terror beso great as to banish this resolution from oursouls; nor to introduce in its place a love oflife, and a contempt of glory. Do you there­fore follow me with alacrity, whithersoever Ishall lead you; as not destitute of such acaptain as is willing to suffer, and to do thegreatest things for you. For neither am Ibetter than my brethren, that I should besparing of my own life; nor so far worse thanthey, as to avoid and refuse what theythought the most honourable of all things; Imean, to undergo death for your laws, andfor that worship of God which is peculiar toyou. I will therefore give such proper de­monstrations as will shew that I am their ownbrother. And I am so bold as to expect thatI shall avenge their blood upon our enemies;and deliver you all, with your wives and chil­dren, from the injuries they intend againstyou; and, with God's assistance, to preserveyour temple from destruction by them. ForI see that these nations have you in contempt,as being without a governor; and that theyhence are encouraged to make war againstyou." By this speech Simon inspired the multi­tude with courage; and as they had been be­fore dispirited through fear, they were nowraised to a good hope of better things; inso­much, that the whole multitude cried out allat once, that Simon should be their leader; and that instead of Judas and Jonathan, hisbrethren, he should have the government overthem:* and they promised that they wouldreadily obey him in whatsoever he shouldcommand them. So he immediately assem­bled all his own soldiers, that were fit forwar; and made haste in rebuilding the wallsof the city, and strengthened them by veryhigh and strong towers; and sent his friendJonathan, the son of Absalom, to Joppa, andgave him order to eject the inhabitants outof the city. For he was afraid lest they shoulddeliver up the city to Trypho. But he him­self stayed to secure Jerusalem. Now Trypho removed from Ptolemais, witha great army, and came into Judea; andbrought Jonathan with him in bonds. Simonalso met him with his army at the city Adida,which is upon a hill; and beneath it lie theplains of Judea. And when Trypho knewthat Simon was made governor of the Jews,he sent to him, and would have imposed uponhim by deceit and treachery; and desiredhim if he would have his brother Jonathanreleased, that he would send him a hundredtalents of silver, and two of Jonathan's sons,as hostages; that when he should be released'he might not make Judea revolt from theking; for that at present he was kept in bondson account of the money that he had bor­rowed of the king, and now owed to him.But Simon was aware of the craft of Trypho;and although he knew that if he gave himthe money he should lose it, and that Tryphowould not set his brother free, and withalshould deliver the sons of Jonathan to theenemy; yet because he was afraid that heshould have a calumny raised against himamong the multitude, as the cause of his bro­ther's death; if he neither gave the money,nor sent Jonathan's sons; he gathered hisarmy together, and told them what offersTrypho had made: and added, that the offers joying without fear, the fruits of their labours, and be­holding with pleasure the flourishing state of their coun­try; their trade increased by the reduction of Joppa, andother maritime places; their territories enlarged; theirarmies well disciplined; their towns and fortresses wellgarrisoned; their religion and liberties secured; theirland freed from Heathen enemies, and Jewish apostates;and their friendship courted by all the nations about them,even by the Romans and the Lacedaemonians. He ob­serves, farther, that this Simon was no less zealous for theservice of God, in exterminating apostacy, superstition, idolatry, and every thing else that was contrary to hislaws; that he was a great protector of the true Israelites,and a friend to the poor; that he restored the service ofthe temple to its ancient splendour, and repaired thenumber of its sacred vessels: so that we need not wonder,if the Jewish Sanhedrim thought no dignity of honour,while he lived, and when he was so basely and barbarouslycut off, no grief and lamentation too great for a man of hisuncommon merit . Universal History, lib. 2. c. 11. B.* 1 Macc. xiii. 8.