OCR Output 138 THE DECLINE AND FAIX chap. people of savage negroes into the system of civilizedXXXV- society. But the friends of the Roman empire, theAxumites, or Abyssinians, may be always distin­guished from the original natives of Africa. Thehand of nature has flattened the noses of the negroes,covered their heads with shaggy wool, and tingedtheir skin with inherent and indelible blackness. Butthe olive complexion of the Abyssinians, their hair,shape, and features, distinctly mark them as a colonyof Arabs; and this descent is confirmed by the re­semblance of language and manners, the report of anancient emigration, and the narrow interval betweenthe shores of the Red Sea. Christianity had raisedthat nation above the level of African barbarism;their intercourse with Egypt, and the successors ofConstantine*, had communicated the rudiments ofthe arts and sciences; their vessels traded to the isleof Ceylon, and seven kingdoms obeyed the Negus orsupreme prince of Abyssinia. The independence ofthe Homerites, who reigned in the rich and happyArabia, was first violated by an ^Ethiopian conqueror;he drew his hereditary claim from the queen of Sheba,and his ambition was sanctified by religious zeal. TheJews, powerful and active in exile, had seduced themind of Dunaan, prince of the Homerites. Theyurged him to retaliate the persecution inflicted by theImperial laws on their unfortunate brethren: someRoman merchants were injuriously treated; and se­veral Christians of Negra were honoured with thecrown of martyrdom. The churches of Arabia im­plored the protection of the Abyssinian monarch.The Negus passed the Red Sea with a fleet andarmy, deprived the Jewish proselyte of his kingdomand life, and extinguished a race of princes, who had * The negotiations of Justinian with the Axumites, 01 Ethiopians, are recordedby Procopius (Persic. 1. i. c. 19, 20.) and John Malala (tom. ii. p. 163—165. 193—196). The historian of Antioch quotes the original narrative of the ambassadorNonnosus, of which Photius (Bibliot. cod. iii.) has preserved a curious extract.