OCR Output CHAP. L. 291 to himself or his disciples, is uncreated and eternal;subsisting in the essence of the Deity, and inscribedwith a pen of light on the table of his everlasting de­crees. A paper copy, in a volume of silk and gems, wasbrought down to the lowest heaven by the angel Gabriel,who, under the Jewish economy, had indeed been dis­patched on the most important errands; and this trustymessenger successively revealed the chapters and versesto the Arabian prophet. Instead of a perpetual andperfect measure of the divine will, the fragments of theKoran were produced at the discretion of Mahomet:each revelation is suited to the emergencies of his policyor passion; and all contradiction is removed by the sav­ing maxim, that any text of Scripture is abrogated ormodified by any subsequent passage. The word ofGod, and of the apostle, was diligently recorded by hisdisciples on palm-leaves and the shoulder-bones of mut­ton; and the pages, without order or connexion, werecast into a domestic chest in the custody of one of hiswives. Two years after the death of Mahomet, the sa­cred volume was collected and published by his friendand successor Abubeker: the work was revised by thecaliph Othman, in the thirtieth year of the Hegira; andthe various editions of the Koran assert the same mi­raculous privilege of a uniform and incorruptible text.In the spirit of enthusiasm or vanity, the prophet reststhe truth of his mission on the merit of his book, auda­ciously challenges both men and angels to imitate thebeauties of a single page, and presumes to assert thatGod alone could dictate this incomparable performance."This argument is most powerfully addressed to a devoutArabian, whose mind is attuned to faith and rapture,whose ear is delighted by the music of sounds, and whoseignorance is incapable of comparing the productions ofhuman genius." The harmony and copiousness of style 'Koran, c. 17. 5. 89. In Sale, p. 255, 236. In Maracci, p. 410.* Vet a sect of Arabians was persuaded, that it might be equalled or surpassed,by a human pen; (Pocock, Specimen, p. 221. &c.) and Maracci (th$ polemic ii U 2