OCR Output CHAP. XLIIl.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2QQ dogs and vultures; a crowd of rustics, imploring foodand protection, increased the consternation of the city,and the tents of Zabergan were pitched at the distanceof twenty miles,q on the banks of a small river, whichencircles Melanthias, and afterward falls into the Pro-pontis/ Justinian trembled: and those who had onlyseen the emperor in his old age, were pleased to suppose,that he had lost the alacrity and vigour of his youth.By his command, the vessels of gold and silver were re­moved from the churches in the neighbourhood, andeven the suburbs of Constantinople: the ramparts werelined with trembling spectators: the golden gate was"crowded with useless generals and tribunes, and the se­nate shared the fatigues and the apprehensions of thepopulace. But the eyes of the prince and people were directed to'Last »io- .a feeble veteran, who was compelled by the public dan-'BetLriu.ger to resume the armour in which he had entered Car­thage and defended Rome. The horses of the royalstables, of private citizens, and even of the circus, werehastily collected; the emulation of the old and youngwas roused by the name of Belisarius, and his first en­campment was in the presence of a victorious enemy. His!prudence, and the labour of the friendly peasants, se­cured, with a ditch and rampart, the repose of the night:innumerable fires, and clouds of dust, were artfully con­trived to magnify the opinion of his strength: his soldierssuddenly passed frOm despondency to presumption ; andwhile ten thousand voices demanded the battle, Belisariusdissembled his knowledge, that in the hour of trial hemust depend on the firmness of three hundred veterans. 1 The distance from Constantinople to Melanthias* Villa Caesariana, (Ammian.Marcellin. 30. 11.) is variously fixed at one hundred and two, or one hundred andforty stadia, (Suidas, torn. 2; p. 522, 523. Agathias, lib. 5. p. 158.) or eighteen ornineteen miles. (Itineraria, p. 138. 230. 323. 332. and Wesseling's Observations.),The first twelve miles, as far as Rhegium, were paved by Justinian, who built abridge over a morass or gullet between a lake and the sea. (Procop. de Edif. lib. 4.c. 8.) r The Atyras. (Pompon. Mela, lib. 2. o. 2. p. 169. edit. Voss.) At the riverVmouth, a town or caMle of the same name was fortified by Justinian* (Procop. deEdif. lib. 4. c. 2. Itlnerar. p. 570. and Wesseling.) X 1