OCR Output 182 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX. gave * them what they had already done, but also gave themleave to let the wall they had built stand. This was grantedthem in order to gratify Poppea, Nero's wife, who was a re­ligious woman, and had requested these favours of Nero, andwho gave order to the ten ambassadors to go their way home ;but retained Helcias and Ismael as hostages with herself. Assoon as the king heard this news, he gave the high-priesthood toJoseph, who was called Cabi, the son of Simon, formerly high-priest. CHAP. IX. Concerning Albinus, under whose procuratorship James was slain ?-as also what edifices were built by Agrippa. § 1. A ND now Caesar, upon hearing the death of Festus, sentAlbinus into Judea, as procurator. But the king de­prived Joseph of the high-priesthood, and bestowed the successionto that dignity on the son of Ananus, who was also himself calledAnanas. Now the report goes, that this eldest Ananus proveda most fortunate man i for he had five sons, who had all perform­ed the office of an high-priest to God, and who had himself en­joyed that dignity a long time formerly, which had never hap­pened to any other of our high-priests. But this younger Ananus,who, as we have told you already, took the high-priesthood, wasa bold man in his temper, and very insolent; he was also of thesect of the Sadducees f, who are very rigid in judging offendersabove all the rest of the Jews, as we have already observed ;when, therefore, Ananus was of this disposition, he thought hehad now a proper opportunity [to exercise his authority]. Fes­tus was now dead, and Albinus was put upon the road ; so heassembled the sanhedrim of judges, and brought before themthe brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, whose name wasfames, and some others, [or, some of his companions]. Andwhen he had formed an accusation against them as breakers of the * We have here one eminent example of Nero's mildness and goodness in hisgovernment towards the Jews, during the five first years of his reign, so famousin antiquity; we have perhaps another in Josephus's own Life, sect. 3. and a third,though of a very different nature here, in sect. 9. just before. However, boththe generous acts of kindness were obtained of Nero by his queen Poppea, whowas a religious lady, and perhaps privately a Jewish proselyte, and so were notowing entirely to Nero's own goodness. t It hence evidently appears, that Sadducees might be high.priests in the daysof Josephus, and that these Sadducees were usually very severe and inexorablejudges, while the Pharisees were much milder, and more merciful, as appears byIceland's instances in his note on this place, and on Josephus's Life, sect. 34. andthose taken from the New Testament, from Josephus himself, and from the rab­bins; nor do we meet with any Sadducees later than this high-priest in all Jost-phes.