OCR Output SAIS. 875 SAIS. icfcwnt brick which surrounded the princip.iltm iiogs of the cily was "0 feet thick, and pro-eakly therefore it least 100 feet high. It enclosed•a area 2325 fret in length by 1960 in breadth.Bet >od this enclosure were also two large cemeteries,«r t.c the citizens generally, and the other reservedix lim nobles and priests of the higher orders. In■* respect the Saites differed from the other Ae-rrptjans in their practice of interment. They buriedheir kings within the precinct* of their temples.Tu tncoti of Amasis attracted the attention of He- '-tin (ii. 169). and Psammitichus, the conquerort*.' i Kceasirof that monarch, was also buried within>• walls of the temple of Neith. >*a was one of the sacred cities of Aegypt: its * i x ipal deities were Keith, who gave oracles there,04 Isii. The mysteries of the latter were cele-nied annually with unusual pomp on the evening * r'east of Lamps. Herodotus tenns this fes-wsi (ii. 59) the third of the great feasts in their.-tjrfxn calendar. It was held by night; and*r v >>ne intending to be present at the sacrificesia» rr<iuired t« light a number of lumps in the openlt around hi.s house. The lamps were small sau-n> S.led with tall and oil, on which a wick floated,*J afiirh continued to bum all night. At what■•mi of the year the feast of burning lamps was•H fated Herodotus knew, but deemed it wrung toC (ii. 68); it was, however, probably at either thearnal or autumnal equinox, since it apparently had ■rrmce to one of the capital revolutions in the solari-rt. An itucription in the temple of Neith declaredv to he the Mother of the Sun. (Plutarch, It.A Orir.154, ed. Wyttenbach; Proclus, in Timatum, p. 30.) ria thus: " I am the things that have been, and at are, and that will be; no one has uncovered myiru; the fruit which I brought forth became thein.* It is prxtbable, accordingly, that the kindlingthe lamps referred to Neith as the author of light. i trie **jne night apparently were performed what * .Ve-rypiianf* designated the *4 Mysteries of Isis.".. »-n <nve of the supposed places of the intermentUttris, for that is evidently the deity whom He-utu will not name (ii. 171) when he says that i« a burial-place of Aim at Sais in the templeA'heoe. The mysteries were symbolical repre- i'.i:.on» of the sufferings of Osiris, especially his rurrnberxnent by Typhon. They were exhibitedta* lake behind the temple of Neith. Portions iv Uke may be still discerned near the hamlet So. *i-Had jar. tma was alternately a provincial city of the firstt-v tad the capital of Lower Aegypt. Thesenews in it» rank were probably the result ofi«..-»l revolutions in tlie l)elta. The nome andJ art aiud by Manetho to have derived theirI'LatioB from Saites, a king of the xviUh dynasty. * xxmh dynasty was that of Bocchoris of Sais.a with dynasty contained nine Suite kings;<./ law xjtriiitb Amyrtaeus the Saite is the onlya»n h: with him expired the Saite dynasty, B. ca. brrharh* the Wise, the son of Tnephactus (Diodor.11 § 1, 79. <| 1), the Technatis of Plutarch {It.Mr. p. 394; com p. At hen. x. p. 418; Aelian,A. si. 11). and the Aegyptian I'thor, was re-nab*" as a judge and legislator, and introduced,cruitur to Diodorua, some important amendments> ta* iwramercial laws of Sais. He was put to ii w burning after revolting from Sabaco the■» y i- During the Aetbiopian dynasty Sais seems' to have retained its independence. The periodof its greatest prosperity was between B. c. 697—524, under its nine native kings. Tlie strength ofAegypt generally had been transferred from itssouthern to its northern provinces. Of the Saitemonarchs of Aegypt Psammitichus and Amasis wereths most powerful. Psammitichus maintained him­self on the throne by his ("reek mercenaries. Heestablished at Sais the class of interpreters, causedhis own sons to be educated in Greek learning, andencouraged the resort of Greeks to his capital. Theintercourse between Sais and Athens especially waspromoted by their worshipping the same deity —Neith-Athene; and hence there sprung up, althoughin a much later age, tlie opinion that Cecrops theSaite led a colony to Athens. The establishmentof the Greeks at Cyrcne was Indirectly fatal to theSaitic dynasty. Uaphris, Apriea. or Huphra, wasdefeated by the Cyreniaiis, u. c 569; and his dis­contented troops raised their commander Amasis ofSionph to the throne. He adorned Sais with manystately buildings, and enlarged or decorated thetemple of Neith; for he erected in front of it pro-pylaea, which for their height and magnitude, andthe quality of tho stones employed, surpassed nilsimilar structures in Aegypt. The stones weretransported from the quarries of El-Mokattam nearMemphis, and thence were brought also the colossalfigures and androsphinxes that adorned the Dromos.To Sais Amasis transported from Klephantine amonolithal shrine of granite, which Henxlotus espe­cially admired (ii. 175). Though the ordinarypassage from Elephantine to Sais was performed intwenty days, three years were employed in conveyingthis colossal mass. It was, however, never erected,and when Herodotus visited Aegypt was still lyingon the ground in front of the temple. It measured,according to the historian, 30 feet in height, 12 feetin depth from front to back, and in breadth 21 feet.After the death of Amasis, Sais sank into comparativeobscurity, and does not seem hi have enjoyed thefavour of the Persian, Macedonian, or I'ornau mastersof Aegypt. Sais indeed was more conspicuous as a seat ofcommerce and learning, and of Greek culture gene­rally, than as the seat of government Nechepsus,one of its kings, has left a name for his learning(Auson. Epigram. 409), and his writings on astro­nomy are cited by Pliny (ii. 23. s. 21). Pythagorasof Samos visited Sais in the reign of Amasis (comp.Plin. xxxvi. 9. s. 14); and Sulon the Athenian con­versed with Sunchis, a Saite priest, about the sametime (Plut. c"oton,26; Herod, ii. 177; Clinton, Fait.Helkn. vol. ii. p. 9). At Sais, if we may creditPlato t 7(,...«.(.., iii. p. 25), Solon heard the legendof Atlantis, and of the ancient glories of Athenssome thousand years prior to Phoroneus and Nioboand Deucalion's flood. The priests of Sais appearindeed to have been anxious to ingratiate them­selves with the Athenians by discovering resem­blances between Attic and Aegyptian institutions.Thus Diodorus (i. 28), copying from earlier nar­ratives, says that the citizens of Sais, like those ofAthens were divided into eupatrids, or priest-nobles;geomori, land-owners liable to military service;and craftsmen or retail traders. He adds that ineach city the up[>er town was called Aslu. TheGreek population of Sais was governed, according toManetho, by their own laws and magistrates, and hada separate quarter of the city assigned to them. Sostrong indeed was the Hellenic clement in Sais that