OCR Output 8o THE DECLINE AND FALL against the adherents of the traitor 4\ War he detested, as thedisgrace and calamity of human nature; hut when the necessity ofa just defence called upon him to take up arms, he cheerfully ex­posed his person to eight winter campaigns, on the frozen banks ofthe Danube, the severity of which was at last fatal to the weaknessof his constitution. His memory was revered by a grateful posteri­ty, and above a century after his death, many persons preserved theimage of Marcus Antoninus among those of their householdgods49. Happiness of If a man were called to fix the period in the history of the world,t.eRoman. ^ur-ing which the condition of the human race was most happy andprosperous, he would, without hesitation, name that which elapsedfrom the death of Domitian to the accession of Conuriodus. Thevast extent of the Roman empire was governed by absolute power,under the guidance of virtue and wisdom. The armies wererestrained by the firm but gentle hand of four successive emperors,whose characters and authority commanded involuntary respect. Theforms of the civil administration were carefully preserved by Nerva,Trajan, Hadrian, and the Antonines, who delighted in the imageof liberty, and were pleased with considering themselves, as theaccountable ministers of the laws. Such princes deserved thehonour of restoring the republic, had the Romans of their daysbeen capable of enjoying a rational freedom.Its precarious The labours of these monarchs were over-paid by the immensereward that inseparably waited on. their success; by the honestpride of virtue, and by the exquisite delight of beholding thegeneral happiness of which they were the authors. A just, butmelancholy reflection, embittered, however, the noblest of hu­man enjoyments. They must often have recollected the instabilityof a happiness which depended on the character of a single man.The fatal moment v/as perhaps approaching, when some licentiousyouth, or some jealous tyrant, would abuse, to the destruction, that nature.