OCR Output 354 THE DECLINE AND FALL mascus, they reposed near the grove and fountain of Tabuc. Beyond that place,Mahomet declined the prosecution of the war: he declared himself satisfied withthe peaceful intentions; he was more probably daunted by the martial array of theemperor of the east. But the active and intrepid Caled spread around the terrorof his name; and the prophet received the submission of the tribes and cities, fromthe Euphrates to Ailah, at the head of the Red Sea. To his Christian subjects,Mahomet readily granted the security of their persons, the freedom of their trade,the property of their goods, and the toleration of their worship.(l) The weaknessof their Arabian brethren had restrained them from opposing his ambition; thedisciples of Jeslfe were endeared to the enemy of the Jews; and it was the interestof a conqueror to propose a fair capitulation to the most powerful religion of theearth. Till the age of sixty-three years, the strength of Mahomet was equal to thetemporal and spiritual fatigues of his mission. His epileptic fits, an absurd calum­ny of the Greeks, would be an object of pity rather than abhorrence,(2) but heseriously believed that he was poisoned at Chaibar, by the revenge of a Jewishfemale. (3) During four years, the health of the prophet declined; his infirmitiesincreased; but his mortal disease was a fever of fourteen days, which deprived himby intervals of the use of reason. As soon as he was conscious of his danger, heedified his brethren by the humility of his virtue or penitence. " If there be anyman," said the apostle from the pulpit, " whom I have unjustly scourged, I submitmy own back to the lash of retaliation. Have I aspersed the reputation of a Mus­sulman? let him proclaim my faults in the face of the congregation. Has any onebeen despoiled of his goods? the little that I possess shall compensate the princi­pal and the interest of the debt." " Yes," replied a voice from the crowd, "Iam entitled to three drachms of silver." Mahomet heard the complaint, satisfiedthe demand, and thanked his creditor for accusing him in this world rather thanat the day of judgment. He beheld with temperate firmness the approach ofdeath; enfranchised his slaves (seventeen men, as they are named, and eleven wo­men;) minutely directed the order of his funeral, and moderated the lamenta­tions of his weeping friends, on whom he bestowed the benediction of peace.Till the third day before his death, he regularly performed the function ofpublic prayer; the choice of Abubekcr to supply his place, appeared to markthat ancient and faithful friend as his successor in the sacerdotal and regal office;but he prudently declined the risk and envy of a more explicit nomination. At amoment when his faculties were visibly impaired, he called for pen and ink towrite, or more properly to dictate a divine book, the sum and accomplishment ofall his revelations: a dispute arose in the chamber, whether he should be allowedto supersede the authority of the Koran; and the prophet was forced to reprovethe indecent vehemence of his disciples. If the slightest credit may be affordedto the traditions of his wives and companions, he maintained in the bosom of hisfamily, and to the last moments of his life, the dignity of an apostle, and the faithof an enthusiast; described the visits of Gabriel, who bade an everlasting farewellto the earth, and expressed his lively confidence, not only of the mercy, but ofthe favour of the Supreme Being. In a familiar discourse he had mentioned hisspecial prerogative, that the angel of death was not allowed to take his soul till hehad respectfully asked the permission of the prophet. The request was granted;and Mahomet immediately fell into the agony of his dissolution: his head was re­clined on the lap of Ayesnn, the best beloved of all his wives; he fainted with theviolence of pain; recovering his spirits, he raised his eyes towards the roof of the (1) The Diploma oectiritatis Aiknsibus, is attested l>y Ahmed Ben Joseph, and the author Libri Splendorum;/ Gagnier, Not. ad Abulfedam, p. 125.) but Abulfeda himself, ns well as Elmacin (Hist. Saraeen, p. 11.0 thoughlie owns Mahomet's regard far the Christians (p. 13..) only mentions peace and tribute. In the year 1630, Sio-nita published at Paris the text and version of Mahomet's patent in favour of the Christians; which was ad­mitted and reprobated by the opposite taste of Salmatius and Grotins (Bayle, Mahomet* Rem. A AO Hottingerdoubts of its authenticity (Hist. Orient, p. 237.;) Renaudot urges the consent of the Mahometans (Hist. Patri­arch. Ales. p. 109.;) but Mmheim (Hist. Eccles. p. 244.) shows the futility of their opinion, and inclines to be­lieve it spurious. Yet Abtilpharagius quotes the impostor's treaty with the Nestorian patriarch (Asseman. Bi-blioth. Orient, torn. ii. n_. 418.;) but Abulpharagius was primate of the Jacobites. (2) The epilepsy, or falling sickness of Mahomet, is asserted by Theophanes, Zonaras, and the rest of theGreeks; and is greedily swallowed by the gross bigotry of Hottinger (Hist. Orient, p. 10,11.,) Prideanx (Life ofMahomet, p. 12.,) and Maracci (torn. ii. Alcoran, p. 762, 763.) The titles {the wrapped up* the covered) of twochapters ot the Koran (73, 74.) can hardly be strained to such an interpretation: the silence, the ignorance, ofthe Mahometan commentators, is more conclusive than the most peremptory denial; and the charitable side isespoused by Ockley (Hist, of the Saracens, torn. i. p. 301..) Gagnier(ad Abulfed. p. 9. Vie de Mahomet, torn. i.p. 118.,) and Sale (Koran, p. 409—4740 (3) This poison, (more ignominious since it was offered as a test of his prophetic knowledge) is frankly corvleased by his zealous votaries, Abulfeda (p. 92.) and Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. ii. r- 286—2880