OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. knew how to deliver themselves and their children, with their ownhands, from an insulting victor Heroines of such a cast mayclaim our admiration; but they were, most assuredly, neither lovelytnor very susceptible of love. Whilst they affected to emulate thestern virtues of many they must have resigned that attractive softnessin which principally consist the charm and weakness of woman.Conscious pride taught the German females to suppress every tenderemotion that stood in competition with honour, and the first honourof the sex has ever been that of chastity. The sentiments andconduct of these high-spirited matrons may, at once, be consideredas a cause, as an effect, and as a proof of the general character ofthe nation. Female courage, however it may be raised by fanaticism,or confirmed by habit, can be only a faint and imperfect imitationof the manly valour that distinguishes the age or country in whichit may be found. The religious system of the Germans (if the wild opinions of fa- ReFgion.vages can deserve that name) was dictated by their wants, their fears,and their ignorance 6\ They adored the great visible objects andagents of Nature, the Sun and the Moon, the Fire and the Earth;together with those imaginary deities, who were supposed to pre­side over the most important occupations of human life. They werepersuaded, that, by some ridiculous arts of divination, they coulddiscover the will of the superior beings, and that human sacrificeswere the most precious and acceptable offering to their altars. Someapplause has been hastily bestowed on the sublime notion, enter-"tained by that people, of the Deity, whom they neither confinedwithin the walls of a temple, nor represented by any human figure •but when we recollect, that the Germans were unskilled in archi­tecture, and totally unacquainted with the art of sculpture, we shallreadily assign the true reason of a scruple, which arose not so muchfrom a superiority of reason, as from a want of ingenuity. Theonly temples in Germany were dark and ancient groves, consc- Vo l. I. H h crated