OCR Output Chap.'II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, CHAP. II. Concerning Zamaris, the Babylonian Jew. Concerning the plotslaid by Antipater against bis father ; and somewhat about thePharisees. § 1. A ND now it was that Herod, being desirous of secu-f-t*- ring himself on the side of the Trachonites, resolved-fo build a village as large as a city for the Jews, in the middleof that country, which might make his own country difficultto be assaulted, and whence he might be at hand to makesallies upon them, and do them a mischief. Accordingly,when he understood that there was a maa that was a Jew coineout of Babylon, with five hundred horsemen, all of whomcould shoot their arrows as they rode on horseback, and withan hundred of his relations, had passed over Euphrates, andnow abode at Antioch by Daphne of Syria, where Saturni-nus, who was then president, had given them a place for ha­bitation, called Valatha, he sent for this man, with the mul­titude that followed him, and promised to give him land inthe toparchy called Batanca^ which country is bounded withTrachonites, as desirous to make that his habitation a guardto himself. He also engaged to let h;m hold the country freefrom -tribute, and that they should dwell entirely without pay.ing such customs as used to be paid, and' gave it him tax-cfree. 2. The Babylonian was induced by theae offers to come hi­ther ; so he took possession of the land, and built in it for­tresses and a village, and named it Bathyra. Whereby thistnan became a safeguard to the inhabitants against the Tra­chonites, and preserved those Jews who came out of Babylon,to offer their sacrifices at Jerusalem, from being hurt by theTrachonite robberies ; so that a great number came to himfrom all those parts where the ancient Jewish laws were ob­served, and the country became full of people, by reason oftheir universal freedom' from taxes. This continued duringthe life of Herod ; but when Philip, who was [tetrarch] afterhim, took the government, he made them pay some smalltaxes, and that for a little while only ; and Agrippa the Great,and his son of the same name, although they harassed -themgreatly, yet would they not take their liberty away. Fromwhom, when the Romans have now taken the governmentinto their own hands, they still gave them the privilege oftheir freedom, but oppress them entirely with the imposition1 • of