OCR Output 496 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. nus's, an Idumean, called Antipater; whowas very rich, and in his nature an activeand seditious man, he was at enmity withAristobulus, and had differences with himon account of his good will to Hyrcanus.Nicolaus of Damascus indeed says, thatAntipater was of the stock of the principalJews who came out of Babylon into Judea.But that assertion of his was to gratify Herod,who was his son: and who, by certain revo­lutions of fortune, came afterward to be kingof the Jews; whose history we shall giveyou in its proper place hereafter. How­ever, this Antipater was at first called *An-tipas: and that was his father's name also.Of whom they relate, that king Alexanderand his wife made him general of all Idumea:and that he made a league of friendship withthose Arabians, Gazites, and Ascalonites,that were of his own party, and had, bymany and large presents, made them his fastfriends. But now, this younger Antipaterwas suspicious of the powers of Aristobulus;and was afraid of some mischief he might dohim, because of his hatred to him. So hestirred up the most powerful of the Jews,and talked against him to them privately;and said, it was unjust to overlook the con­duct of Aristobulus; who had assumed thegovernment unrighteously; and had ejectedhis brother, who was the elder, and ought toretain what belonged to him by the preroga­tive of his birth. And the same speecheshe perpetually made to Hyrcanus: and toldhim that his own life would be in danger,unless he guarded himself, and got rid ofAristobulus. For, he said, that the friendsof Aristobulus omitted no opportunity of ad­vising him to kill him; as being then and notbefore sure to retain his principality. ButHyrcanus gave no credit to these words, asbeing of a gentle disposition, and one thatdid not easily admit of calumnies againstother men. This temper of his not dis­posing him to meddle with public affairs,occasioned him to appear to spectators tobe degenerate and unmanly: while Aristo­bulus was of a contrary temper; an active * That the famous Antipater's, or Antipas's father, wasalso Antipater or Antipas: (which two may justly be es­teemed one and the same name; the former with a Greekor Gentile; the latter with a Hebrew or Jewish termina­tion:) Josephus here assures us. Though Eusebius indeed, man, and one of a great and generoussoul. Since therefore t Antipater saw that Hyrca­nus did not attend to what he said, he neverceased day by day to charge feigned crimesupon Aristobulus; and to calumniate him,before him, as if he had a mind to kill him.And so by urging him perpetually, he per­suaded him to flee to Aretas, king of Arabia;and promised that if he would comply withhis advice, he would also himself assist him,and go with him. When Hyrcanus heardthis, he said, that it was for his advantage toflee away to Aretas. However he sent An­tipater first to the king of Arabia, in orderto receive assurances, that when he shouldcome in the manner of a supplicant to him, hewould not deliver him up to his enemies. SoAntipater having received such assurances,returned to Jerusalem, and took Hyrcanus,and stole out of the city by night; and con­ducted him to the city called retra; wherethe palace of Aretas was. And as he was avery familiar friend of that king's, he per­suaded him to bring back Hyrcanus into Ju­dea; and this persuasion he continued everyday, without any remission. He also pro­posed to make him presents on that account.At length he prevailed with Aretas in hissuit. Moreover Hyrcanus promised him,that when he had been brought thither, andhad received his kingdom, he would restorethat country, and those twelve cities whichhis father Alexander had taken from theArabians, viz. Medaba, Naballo, Libias,Tharabassa, Agalla, Athone, Zoar, Orone,Marissa, Rudda, Lussa, and Oruba. CHAP. II. OF THE EXPEDITION OP ARETAS AND HYRCANUS AGAINSTARISTOBULUS; THEIR INVESTMENT OF JERUSALEM J THEINTERFERENCE OF SCAURUS, THE ROMAN GENERAL J ANDTHE DEATH OF ONIAS. AFTER these promises had been given toAretas, he made an expedition againstAristobulus, with an army of fifty thousandhorse and foot; and defeated him in battle. Hist. Eccl. I. 6, says it was Herod, I am clearly of Dr.Hudson's and Noldius's minds; that we ought to followJosephus rather than Eusebius in this matter. See Nold-de Vit. and Gest. Herod. § 1—6.t An. 65.