OCR Output 412 NEAPOLIS, NEAPOLIS. proximity, translated in our version, " a teacher oflies" (ii. 18). Tiro time when it assumed its new ,inline, which it still retains almost uncorrupted in INablus, is marked by the authors above cited andby the coins. Pliny died during the reign of Titus,under whom Joseph us wrote, and the earliest coinsbearing the inscription 4AAOTI. NEAnOA. 2AMAP.are of the same reign. Sichem is an exceedingly ancient town, and isfrequently mentioned in the history of the earliest |patriarchs. It was the first place of Abraham'ssojourn on coming into tJie land of Canaan, and therehe built an altar to the Lord. (Gen. xii. 6.) Theconnection <>f Jacob with the place is marked by thetraditionary well still called by his name, and referredto as an undoubtedly authentic tradition, eighteencenturies ago, — that is, at the expiration of abouthall'the period that has elapsed since the time of thepatriarch (Gen. xxxiii. 18, xsxiv.; St. John, iv. 5,6, 12); nor need the authority of the other localtradition of Joseph's tomb be questioned, as he wascertainly deposited there on the coming in of theIsraelites, nnd the reverence paid by them to theirfathers' sepulchres forbids us to suppose that itcould fall into oblivion. {Gen. L 25; Josh, xxxir.32.) That tomb was probably situated in the"parcel of a field" where Jacob bad spread his tent, \which he had bought of the children of Harnor, ■Shechems' father, for a hundred pieces of money, butwhich the patriarch himself represents as taken(probably recovered) '* from the Amorites with hissword and with his bow" {Gen. xlviii. 22), andwhich he retained as pasture-ground f"r his cattleafter his removal from that vicinity (xxxvii. 12—14).In the division of the land, it fell to the tribe ofEpbraim, and is described as situated in MountEphraim; it was a Levities) city, and one of thethree cities of refuge on the west of Jordan. (Josh.xx. 7, xxi. 20, 21.) There it was that Joshuaassembled the national convention shortly before hisdeath (xxiv. 1, 25); at which time " he took a greatstone and set it up there under an oak, that was bythe sanctuary of the Lord" (ver.26), proving that thetabernacle was then at Shechem, probably in theidentical place, the memory of which the Samaritantradition has perpetuated to this day. [Ebal;GRRIZIM.] The pillar erected by Joshua continuedto be held in veneration throughout the time of theJudges ; there the Shechemites "made Abimelechkiniz, by the plain (|] oak) of the pillar that was inShechem," —his own birthplace, and the scene of hisfather Gideon's victory over the Midianites (Judt/es,vii. I, viii. 31, ix. 6); and there it was that the Is­raelites assembled tomake^lehoboamking. (1 Kings,xii. 1; 2 Chron. x. 1.) The remainder of itshistory is so identified with that of its sacred MountGerizim that it has been anticipated under thatarticle. There can he little doubt that this is thecity of Samaria mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles,where Philip preached with such success, and whichfurnished to the Church one of its earliest andmost dangerous adversaries, and its first and mostdistinguished apologist. Not that Simon Maguswas a native of Neapolis, but of a Tillage of Samarianamed Gilton (Tittw*', Just. Mart. ApoL i. 36;com p. Euseb. II. K. ii. 13), but Neapolis was theprincipal theatre of his sorceries. Justin Mat tvr w.isa native of the city, according to Eusebius (airbfrAavfai y4&tw6\w$ Xvpiat r%\ riaAaif-nV^s, J/i.<(.Eccles. ii. 13). Sichem is placed by Eusebius amiSt. Jerome, x.M.P.froui Shilo, which agrees well with :i xLJLF. d in mIand aUsala diractaflvails) opal the interval between S'dun and Xahlits. (^wmaA.s. r. 2^\w.) But it must be observed, that thenauthors distinguish between theSychein of Ephnaa,near the sepulchre of Joseph.— which, having beetdestroyed and sown with salt by Abimelech. warestored by Jeroboam (comp. Judges, ix. 43. *nb1 Kings, xii. 25), who, Josephussays. built his pita*there {Ant. viii. § 4), — and the city of refugesiMount Ephraim, which they assign to Maoasaa,and, with strange inconsistency, immediately identifywith the preceding by the fact th:it Joseph's bsaflwere buried there. {OnomasL *. r. 1 \ffi ) Hiauthor of the .Jerusalem Itinerary places it xL M. P.from Jerusalem. The modern town of Nablits is situatedlying between Mount Ebal on the N., andGerizim on the S., giving to the valleyfrom E. to W. On the E., the Xabius valieyinto a much wider valley, about 2 miles from ustown ; this valley is called Erd-Mukfma WherethNablfo valley meets the Erd-Mukkma, at the 39base of Mount Gerizim, is Jacob's well, and, hard tathe well, is the traditionary site of Joseph'* ftsaabotli of them close to the Moslem village of Asituated at the SK. base of Mount Ebal P«this Asknr may mark the site of ancient Syi bar, tsnames present only an anagram ma ticalThis would satisfy the language of Eusebius anaflJerome, cited at the commencement of the srtaiand remove the obvious difficulty of supposing (Jwell so far distant from the city as is A <ii4its, SSIticulariy as Xublus abounds with runningand there are copious-fountains between it and■well. One of these, not noticed by anysituated about mid-way between the well ana^town, in the middle of the valley, is calledDaphne, so named, no doubt, at the timeGreeks inhabited Neapolis, from the ifountain and grove near Antioch. TheXaid its is a large and well-built town, conlpopulation of from 12,000 to 14.0U0 souls,entirely Mohammedans; the Samaritans, havingIflreduced to something under 200 of all ages an i t*jsexes. (Kaumer, AzJdsfrao, pp. 144—14$,Robinson, Bib. Res. tc4. iii. pp. 95—136.) The coins of Neapolis are very frequent under Iemperors from Titus to Volusianus. The oosinscription is 4>A. N€ACnOA€&)C, mar* 1♦AAOT, as in the one below, in which is also aas in many examples, the name of the rvgiuej.more usual emblem on the reverse is a temple ailon the summit of a mountain, to which is ma sby many steps. The temple is doubtless thattioned by Dsmasius as Atos 'TiitorowUpov (up. PhoL BibL p. 1055). the >tepaalluded toby the Bordeaux Pilgrim in S.D."Ascenduntnr usque as! Minimum muntemnumero ccc." On tlie coins of Titus,before the Mount Gerizim was introduced, ain the example below, was the type; or a COIN OF NEAPOLIS IX l*ALESTT3taV