OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 247 serve and register the most trifling presages, from chap.which, according to the rules of divination, any XIX,knowledge of futurity could be derived *. He in­formed Libanius of his progress as far as Hierapolis,by an elegant epistle f, which displays the facilityof his genius, and his tender friendship for the sophistof Antioch. Hierapolis, situate almost on the banks of the His designEuphrates t, had been appointed for the general ren- pelr°^ ngdezvous of the Roman troops, who immediately passedthe great river on a bridge of boats, which was pre­viously constructed §. If the inclinations of Julianhad been similar to those of his predecessor, he mighthave wasted the active and important season of theyear in the circus of Samosata, or in the churches ofEdessa. But as the warlike emperor, instead of Con-stantius, had chosen Alexander for his model, headvanced without delay to Carrhae ||, a very ancientcity of Mesopotamia, at the distance of fourscoremiles from Hierapolis. The temple of the Moonattracted the devotion of Julian; but the halt of afew days was principally employed in completing theimmense preparations of the Persian war. The secretof the expedition had hitherto remained in his ownbreast; but as Carrhae is the point of separation ofthe two great roads, he could no longer conceal,whether it was his design to attack the dominions ofSapor on the side of the Tigris, or on that of the • Julian (epist. xxviii.) kept a regular account of all the fortunate omens; buthe suppresses the inauspicious signs, which Ammianus (xxiii. 2.) has carefullyrecorded. f Julian, epist. xxvii. p. 399—402. ^ I take the earliest opportunity of acknowledging my obligations to M. d'An-ville, for his recent geography of the Euphrates and Tigris (Paris, 1780, in 4to.)which particularly illustrates the expedition of Julian. § There are three passages within a few miles of each other; 1. Zeugma, ce­lebrated by the ancients; 2. Bir, frequented by the modems; and, 3. The bridgeof Menbigz, or Hierapolis, at the distance of four parasangs from the city. || Haran, or Carrhae, was the ancient residence of the Sabajans, and of Abra­ham. See the Index Geographicus of Schultens (ad calcem Vit. Saladin.), awork from which I have obtained much Oriental knowledge, concerning the an­cient and modern geography of Syria and the adjacent countries. R 4