OCR Output 468 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was at hand, but what should profit them wasstill at a great distance; and it was uncer­tain whether it would come at all or not;they thought it prudent to leave off anylonger continuance with him, and to cultivatefriendship with the other. So they sent toJonathan, and professed the)' would be hisfriends, and afford him assistance. For suchis the temper of men, that before they havehad the trial of great afflictions, they do notunderstand what is for their advantage: butwhen they find themselves to be under suchafflictions, they then change their minds; andwhat it had been better for them to havedone before they had been at all damaged,they choose to do, but not till after they havesuffered such damages. However, he madea league of friendship with them, and tookfrom them hostages for their performance ofit; and sent these hostages to Jerusalem:while he went himself over all the country,as far as Damascus. Now the generals of Demetrius's forcescame to the city Cadesh, between the landof the Tyrians and Galilee. For they sup­posed they should hereby draw Jonathan outof Syria, in order to preserve Galilee; andthat he would not overlook the Galileans,who were his own people, when war wasmade upon them. But Jonathan went to meetthem, having left Simon in Judea: who raisedas great an army as he was able out of thecountry, and then sat down before Bethsura,and besieged it; that being the strongestplace in all Judea, and a garrison of Deme­trius's kept it: as we have *already related.But as Simon was raising banks, and bringinghis engines of war against Bethsura, and wasvery earnest about the siege of it, the gar­rison was afraid lest the place should be ta­ken of Simon by force, and they put to thesword. So they sent to Simon, and desiredthe security of his oath, that they shouldcome to no harm from him; and that thenthey would leave the place, and go away toDemetrius. Accordingly he gave them hisoath, and ejected them out of the city: andhe put therein a garrison of his own. But Jonathan removed out of Galilee, andfrom the waters which are called Gennesar; * Chap. 2. t 1 Mace. xi. 73. (for there he was before encamped:) andcame into the plain that is called Asor: with­out knowing that the enemy was there. Whentherefore Demetrius's men knew a day be­forehand that Jonathan was coming againstthem, they laid an ambush in the mountain,who were to assault him on the sudden; whilethey themselves met him with an army in theplain. Which army when Jonathan sawready to engage him, he also got ready hisown soldiers for the battle as well as he wasable. But those that were laid in ambush byDemetrius's generals being behind them, theJews were afraid lest they should be caughtin the midst between two bodies, and perish.So they ran away in haste: and indeed allthe forces forsook Jonathan, excepting aboutfifty who stayed with him: and with themMattathias the son of Absalom, and Judasthe son of Chapseus, who were commandersof the whole army. These marched boldly,and like men desperate, against the enemy;and so pushed them, that by their couragethey daunted them; and with their weaponsin their hands they put them to flight. Andwhen those soldiers of Jonathan, that hadretired, saw the enemy giving way, they gottogether after their flight, and pursued themwith great violence. And this they did asfar as Cadesh, where the camp of the ene­my lay.f Jonathan having thus obtained a gloriousvictory, and slain two thousand of the enemy,returned to Jerusalem. So when he saw thatall his affairs prospered, according to hismind by the providence of God, he sent am­bassadors to the Romans; being desirous ofrenewing that friendship which their nationhad with them Jformerly. He enjoined thesame ambassadors, that as they came back,they should go to the Spartans; and put themin mind of their friendship and kindred. Sowhen the ambassadors came to Rome, theywent into the senate, and said what theywere commanded by Jonathan the high-priestto say: how he had sent them to confirmtheir friendship. The senate then confirmedwhat had been formerly decreed concerningtheir friendship with the Jews; and gavethem letters to carry to all the kings of Asia J See Book XII. chap. 10.