OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 867 effects as they were able to carry; the rest became theprey of the soldiers; nor was there any kind of crueltywhich they could have suffered from an enemy thatthey did not suffer from these their confederates. Theinfliction of such hardships was irksome to Philip,even while he authorised it; but as the country wassoon to become the property of the foe, he wished torescue out of it their persons at least. In this mannerwere ravaged the towns of Phacium, Iresia, Euhy-drium, Eretria, and Palasphatus. On his coming toPherae the gates were shut against him, and as itwould necessarily occasion a considerable delay, if heattempted to take it by force, and as he could notspare time, he dropped the design, and crossed overthe mountains into Macedonia; for he had receivedintelligence that the JEtolians too were marching to­wards him. These, on hearing of the battle fought onthe banks of the river Aous, first laid waste the near­est tracts round Sperchia, and Long Come, as it iscalled, and then, passing over into Thessaly, got pos­session of Cymine and Angea at the first assault.From Metropolis they were repulsed by the inha­bitants, who, while a part of their army was plunder­ing the country, assembled in a body to defend thecity. Afterwards, making an attempt on Callithere,they were attacked by the townsmen in a like manner;but withstood their onset with more steadiness, droveback into the town the party which had sallied, andcontent with that success, as they had scarcely anyprospect of taking the place by storm, retired. Theythen took by assault and sacked the towns of Theumaand Calathas. Achorrae they gained by surrender.Xynias, through similar apprehensions, was abandonedby the inhabitants. These having forsaken theirhomes, and going together in a body, fell in with aparty of Athamanians employed in protecting theirforagers; all of whom, an irregular and unarmed mul­titude, incapable of any resistance, were put to thesword by the troops. The deserted town of Xyniaewas plundered. The jEtolians then took Cyphara, a