OCR Output LEA. LEBADEIA. 151 Byzantine writers; the first time that they appearin history was A. d. 456, during the reign of theemf*ror Marcian, who was successful against theirkiug Gobaies. (Prise. Exc. de Leg. Horn. p. 71;rump. Le Beau, Bat Empire, vol. vi. p. 385.) TheLazic war, the contest of Justinian and Chosroes onthe hanks of the Phasis, has been minutely describedby contemporary historians. (Procop. B. P. ii. 15,17, 23, 29, 30, B. G. iv. 7—16, Agath. ii. iii. iv.pp. 55—132, 141 : Menand. Protect. Exc. de Ley.Cent, pp.99, 101,133—147; comp. Gibbon, c.xlii'.;LeBeau, vol. ix. pp. 44,133,209—220,312—353.)In the Atlas (pt i. pi. xiv.) to Dubois de Mont-pereux ( Voyage Autour du Caucase, comp. vol. ii.pp. 73 —132) will be found a map of the theatre ofthis war. In a. d. 520, or 512 according to theera of Theophanes, the Lazi were converted toChristianity (Gibbon, L c.; Neander, Gesch. derCkrutl. Kcligum, vol. iii. p. 236), and, under thename of Leizians. are now spread through the countrynear the SE. angle of the Euxine from Gttriel to theneighbourhood of Trcbizond. Their language, belong­ing to the Indo-Germanic family, appears to containremains of the ancient Colchian idiom. (Cosmos,vol. il note 201, trans.; Prichard, Physical Hist ofMankind, vol. iv. p. 263.) [E. B.J.] LEA. an island in the Aegaean sea, mentionedonly by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23) in conjunction withAscania and Anaphe. LEAXDIS (A«a^3(s), a town in the eastern partof the strategy of Cataonia, in Armenia Minor, 18miles to the south of Cocuxus, in a pass of MountTaurus, on the road to Anazarbus. (Ptol. v. 7.§ 7.) This town is perhaps the same as the La-randa of the Antoninc Itinerary (p. 211) and ofHieroclcs (p. 675), which must not be confoundedwith the Laranda of Lycaonia or Isauria. [L. S.] LEAXI'TAE. [Leamtes Sinus.] LEANITES SINUS (Aeot-frfly k6\ttos), a bay onthe western side of the Persian Gulf, so named fromthe Arab tribe Leanitae (Aftmrai, Ptol. vi. 7.§ 18). They are placed north of Gerrah, betweenthe Thetni and the Abucaei. Pliny states that thevjxmt was variously written: "Sinus intiinus, in quoI.v-anitae qui riomen ei dedere; regio eorum Agra, etin :*iim Ijteana, vel, at a!ii Aaelana ; nam et ipsum'inam nostri Aelaniticnni scripserc, alii Aeleniticum,Artemidortis Alaniticum, Juba Lacniticum" (vi.28)..Vrra, which Pliny represents as the capital, is doubt-1*m the "Adari civitas" ('Aoapou woAis) of Ptolemy,in the country of the Leanitae. Mr. Forster regardsthe name as an abbreviated form of " Sinus Khau-•Uaites" or Bay of Khaulan, in which he discoversan idiomatic modification of the name Haulanites,the Arabic form for Havileans, — identical withthe Bern KhaXcd, — the inhabitants of the Aval orHavilah of Scripture [Havtlah]. (Geography ofJroWfi, vol. i. pp. 43, 52, 53, vol. n. p. 215.) Thegulf apparently extended from the Itamus Portus(A"*tfemo) on the north, to the Chersonesi extrema{Rw-d-Char) on the south. [G. W.] LEBADE. [Sipylus.] LEBADEIA (AeSifftio, Herod., Strab., et alii;Acfotta, Plut. Ijys. 28: i?M. AcSaScfa: Livadhia),a town near the western frontier of Boeotia, describedby Strabo (ix. p. 414) as lying between Mt. Helicon*M Chacroneia. It was situated at tlie foot of apwjpitmis height, which is an abrupt northerlyirrmination of Mt. Helicon. Pausanias relates (ix.&• § 1) that this height was originally occupiedW the Homeric city of Mideia (Mfteia, It. ii. 507), from whence the inhabitants, under the conduct ofLebadus, an Athenian, migrated into the plain, andfounded there the city named after him. On theother hand, Strabo maintains (ix. p. 413) that theHomeric cities Arne and Mideia were both swallowedup by the lake Copais. Lebadeia was originally aninsignificant place, but it rose into importance inconsequence of its possessing the celebrated oracleof Trophonius. The oracle was consulted both byCroesus (Herod, i. 46) and by Mardonius (Herod,viii. 134), and it continued to be consulted even inthe time of Plutarch, when all the other oracles inBoeotia had become dumb. (Pint, de Def. Orac. 5.)Pausanias himself consulted the oracle, and hespeaks of the town in terms which show that itwas in his time the most flourishing place in Boeotia.But notwithstanding the sanctity of the oracle, Le­badeia did not always escape the ravages of war.It was taken and plundered both by Lysander andby Archelans, the general of Mithridates. (Plut.Lys. 28, Sttll. 16.) In the war against Perseus, itespoused the side of the Romans, while Thebes,Haliartus, and Coroneia declared in favour of theMacedonian king. (Polyb. xxvii. 1.) It continuesto exist under the slightly altered name of Livad/tia,and during the Turkish supremacy it gave its nameto the whole province. It is Btill a considerabletown, though it suffered greatly in the war of inde­pendence against the Turks. The modern town is situated on two opposite hills,rising on each bank of a small stream, called Her-cyna by Pausanias, but the greater jart of thehouses are on the western slope, on the summit ofwhich is a ruined castle. Pausanias says that theHercyna rose in a cavern, from two fountains, closeto one another, one called the fountain of Oblivionand the other the fountain of Memory, of which thepersons who were going to consult the oracle wereobliged to drink. The Hercyna is iu reality a con­tinuation of an occasional torrent from Mount Heli­con; but at the southern extremity of the town, onthe eastern side of the castle-hill, there are somecopious sources, which were evidently the reputedfountains of the Hercyna. They issue from eitherside of the Hercyna, those on the right bank beingthe most copious, flowing from under the rocks inmany large streams, and forming the main body of theriver; and those on the left bank being insignificant,and flowing, in tlie time of Dodwell, through tensmall spouts, of which there arc still remains. Thefountains on the right bank are warm, and are calledChil'ui (Ji Xt\td), and sometimes rd yKwpa vipd,or the water unfit for drinking; while the fountainson the left bank are cold and clear, and are namedKrya (tj Kpva, i. e. rj Hpua j3pu.T(s, the cold source,in opposition to the warm, Chilit'i). Neither of thesetwo sets of fountains rise out of a cave, and so fardo not correspond to the description of Pausanias;but there is a cavern close to each; and in thecourse of ages, since the destruction of the sacredbuildings of Trophonius, the caverns may easilyhave been choked up, and the springs have emergedin different spots. The question, however, arises,which of the caverns contained the reputed sourcesof the Hercyna? The answer to this must dependupon the position we assign to the sacred grove ofTrophonius, in which the source of the Hercyna wassituated. Leake places the sacred grove on theright or eastern bank; but Ulrichs on the left, orwestern bank. The latter appears more probable,on account of the passage in Pausanias, Stcf/ryci Si L 4