OCR Output 138 THE DECLINE AND FALL Pertinax,son to the prince of that name, lost his life by an unseason­able witticism 17. It was a sufficient crime of Thrasea Priscus, tobe descended from a family in which the love of liberty seemed anhereditary quality 4\ The particular causes of calumny and suspi­cion were at length exhausted; and when a senator was accused ofbeing a secret enemy to the government, the emperor was satisfiedwith the general proof that he was a man of property and virtue.From this well-grounded principle, he frequently drew the mostbloody inferences. Death of The execution of so many innocent citizens was bewailed by thePap>man. secret tears Qf their friends and families. The death of Papinian,the Prætorian praefect, was lamented as a public calamity. Duringthe last seven years of Severus, he had exercised the most importantoffice of the state, and by his salutary influence, guided the empe­ror's steps in the paths of justice and moderation. In full assuranceof his virtue and abilities, Severus, on his death-bed, had conjured himto watch over the prosperity and union of the Imperial family 19. Thehonest labours of Papinian, served only to inflame the hatred whichCaracalla had already conceived against his father's minister. Afterthe murder of Geta, the praefect was commanded to exert the powersof his skill and eloquence in a studied apology for that atrociousdeed. The philosophic Seneca had condescended to compose a simi­lar epistle to the senate, in the name of the son and assassin of Agrip­pina 30; " That it was easier to commit than to justify a parricide,**was the glorious reply of Papinian Jl, who did not hesitate betweenthe loss of life and that of honour. Such intrepid virtue, whichhad escaped pure and unsullied from the intrigues of courts, thehabits of business, and the arts of his profession, reflects more lustreon the memory of Papinian, than all his great employments, hisnumerous writings, and the superior reputation as a lawyer, whichhe preserved through every age of the Roman jurisprudence k