OCR Output 138 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. who was secretly anxious for the conclusion of the XVI peace. entertained some hopes that the dignity of thefirst of these ministers, the dexterity of the second,and the rhetoric of the third, would persuade thePersian monarch to abate the rigour of his demands.But the progress of their negotiation was opposed anddefeated by the hostile arts of Antoninus, a Romansubject of Syria, who had fled from oppression, andwas admitted into the councils of Sapor, and even tothe royal table, where, according to the custom of thePersians, the most important business was frequentlydiscussed*. The dexterous fugitive promoted hisinterest by the same conduct which gratified his re­venge. He incessantly urged the ambition of hisnew master, to embrace the favourable opportunitywhen the bravest of the Palatine troops were em­ployed with the emperor in a distant war on the Da­nube. He pressed Sapor to invade the exhausted anddefenceless provinces of the East, with the numerousarmies of Persia, now fortified by the alliance andaccession of the fiercest Barbarians. The ambassadorsof Rome retired without success, and a second em­bassy, of a still more honourable rank, was detained instrict confinement, and threatened either with deathor exile. M^>ta-f ^e mintary historian f, who was himself de-mia by spatched to observe the army of the Persians, as theyAJk'359. were preparing to construct a bridge of boats over theTigris, beheld from an eminence the plain of Assyria,as far as the edge of the horizon, covered with men,with horses, and with arms. Sapor appeared in thefront, conspicuous by the splendour of his purple. * This circumstance, as it is noticed by Ammianus, serves to prove the vera­city of Herodotus (1. i. c 133.), and the permanency of .the Persian manners.In every age the Persians have been addicted to intemperance, and the wines ofShirazhave triumphed over the law of Mahomet. Brisson de Regno Pers. 1. ii.p. 462—472. and Chardin, Voyages en Perse, torn. iii. p. 90. t Ammian. 1. xviii. 6,7, 8. 10.