OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL power, did not exceed a fifth part of that great city. How differ­ent a proportion must we adopt when we compare the persecutedwith the triumphant church, the West with the East, remote vil­lages with populous towns, and countries recently converted to. thefaith, with the place where the believers first received the appellafloa,of Christians. It must not, however, be disenabled, that* ia anotherpassage, Chrysostom, to whon\ we are indebted, for t'nis useful in­formation, computes the multitude of the faithful $» pv$% superiorto that of the jews and Pagans ,5?. But the solution o£ this a;ppirlent difficulty is easy and obvious. The eloquent preacher draws a-parallel between the civil and the ecclesiastical constitution of An*-tioch; between the list of Christiana who had acquired Heaven bybaptism, and the list of citizens who had a right to stwe the publicliberality. Slaves, strangers, and infants were comprised in theformer; they were excluded from the latter,Egypt. she extensive commerce of Alexandria, and its- proximity* tr>Palestine, gave an easy entrance to the new religion. It was at firstembraced by great numbers of the Therapeutae, or Esseniaos of thelake Mareotis, a Jæwiih sect: which had abated much of its reverencefor the Mosaic ceremonies* The austere life of the Eflenians, theirfests and excommunications, the community of goods, the love ofcelibacy, their zeal for martyrdom, and the warmth though not thepurity of their faith, already offered a very lively image of theprimitive discipline l6°. It was in the school of Alexandria that theChristian theology appears to have assumed a regular and scientifical.form; and when Hadrian visited Egypt, he found a church com­posed of Jews and of Greeks, sufficiently important to attract the no­tice of that inquisitive prince But the progress of Christianitywas for a long time confined within the limits of a single city, whichwas itself a foreign colony, and till the close of the second century,the predecessors of Demetrius were the only prelates of the Egyptianchurch. Three bishops were consecrated by the hands of Demetrius* 4 and