OCR Output 912 SARDINIA. SARDINIA. about 18 miles from its mouth; Usellts, about15 miles to the S. of tlie preceding; Valentia, tothe SK. of Usellis: andGuRULls Vetus and Nova,both of which were situated between the riversThyrsus and Teinus. Of the minor towns mentioned by Ptolemy or theItineraries, the following may be noticed: 1. On theW, coast, were Tilium (Ptol.), which must havebeen near the Capo Negretto: Osaea or Hosaea (Id.)at FtumentnrfjiU) a few miles \V. of Neapolis; andOthoca {/tin. Ant.) apparently tho modern Oristano,near the mouth of the river Thyrsus. 2. On the S.coast, Pnpulum (Ptol.) may probably be placed atMassacara, a few miles N. of Sulci; Bitia (Ptol.)at S. Isidoro di Teulada; and Tegula {/tin. Ant.)at the Capo di Teulada, the extreme S. point of theisland. 3. On the E. coast, Feronia (Ptol.) musthave been at or near Posada, 25 miles S. of Olbia,and is apparently the same place called in the Itin­eraries Portus Lugudonis. The other small placesmentioned in the same Itinerary were probably merestations or villages, 4. On the N. coast, besides thetwo considerable towns of Tibula and Tunis Liby-Bonis. Ptolemy places two towns, which he callsJuliola (probably the sime with the Viniola of theItinerary, still tailed Torre Vigiwla) and Plubium,which may probably be fixed at Casttl Sardo. Thesmall towns of the interior are for the most partvery uncertain, the positions given by Ptolemy, aswell as the distances in the Itineraries, varying somuch as to afford us in reality but little assistance;and of the names given by Ptolemy, Krycinum,Heraeum, Macopsisa, Saralapis or Sarala, and Lesa,not one is mentioned in the Itineraries. The AquaeLesitanae (Ptol.) are probably the Acqui di Bene-tutti in the upper valley of the Thyrsus: the AquaeHypsitanae are those of Fordungianm^ and theAquae Neapolitanae the Bagni di Sardara. Thereremain considerable ruins of a Roman town at aplace called Castro on the road from Tcrranova(Olbia) to OrUtano. These are supposed to markthe site of a plate called in the Itineraries Lugu-donec, probably a corruption of Lugudo or Lugudonis.In the S\V. portion of the island, also, betweenNeapolis and Sulci, are considerable Roman remainsat a place called Antas, probably the Metalla of theItineraries, {/tin. Ant. p. 84.). The Itineraries give several lines of road throughthe island of Sardinia, (Ilin. Ant. pp. 78—85.) Oneof these proceeded from Tibula, at the N. extremity ofthe island, which was the usual place of landing fromCorsica, along the whole length of the E. coast to Ca­ralis. It did not accurately follow the line of coast,though it seldom departed far from it, but struck some­what inland from Tibula to Olbia, and from thencewith someexceptions followed the line of coast. A morecircuitotis, but probably more frequented, route wasthat which led from Tibula to Tunis Libysonis,andthence along the W. coast of the island by Btjsa,Comus, mid Tharros to Othoca ( Orutano), fromwhich one branch led direct across the island throughthe plain of the Campidano to Caralis, while anotherfollowed nearly the line of the coast by Neapolis toSulci, and from thence round the southern extremityof the island by Tegula and Nora to Caralis. Besidesthese, two other cross lines of road through theinterior are given: the one from Olbia to Caralisdirect, through the mountain country of the interior,and the other crossing the same wild tract fromOlbia direct to Othoca. Very few of the stationson these lines of road can be identified, and the names themselves are otherwise vhtf.y cuanThe reader will find them fully discaswi uAamined by De la Marmora (l*(iy. «" Sarimvol. ii. pp. 418—457), who has thrownon this obscure subject: but the resell* vaAremain in many cases uncertain. We learn from the geographers tint omtthe Roman Empire several of the wiU Into 4 Tinterior of the island retained their distiocCfJ ~pel la t ions; but these are very variously* rn*^were probably subject to much fluctnatk*. tStrabo gives the names of four mountain triba.}he calls Pa rati, Sossinati, Balari and Acoiittt a -v. p. 225), all of which, with the excepUotiBalari, are otherwise entirely unknown. I -mentions only three, the Ilien^es, BaUri, toil -'*■-which he calls "celeberrimi in ea fefnkj(PIin, iii. 12. s. 17), and which are is fitthree well known names. The existence 4Ilienses under the Empire U aUo distinctly mby Pausanias (x. 17. § 7): yet neither titer:nor that of the Balari is noticed by PuJgdt, 6he gives those of no less than eichieea xm »-existing in his time. These are. beginning 1 .N. point of the island and proceeding frcm XJ"the Tibulatii and Corei, the CoracenseK;4lCarenses and Cunusitanae; next to these .tani and Luquidonenses; then the .after them the Cornenses (called »l**o ,then the Ruacenses; next to whom follow!tani and Corpicenses; after them the SaSiculenses; next to these the Neaputiuni ilentini, and furthest to the S. the fNontaxa." (Ptol. iii. 3. § 6). Of these iare otherwise well known [see above, pp.!the four last names, as well as the T3Cornenses, are evidently derived from thi itowns, and are probably the inhabitants W imunicipally dependent upon them, ratbo'tin the proper sense of the term. The iare wholly unknown. After the fill of the 1Empire we find for the first time the nam* )baricini (BapSaptKLV0it Procop. S. V. ii- 13)1to the mountaineers of the interior. Thi* app4which appears to be merely a corruption of " mvicini," was retained throughout tie suiiitand is still preserved in the name ofgiven to the wild mountain trait whkfcfrom the neighbourhood of CngUnri ta**r*sources of the Tirso. These moun'-airieen *^converted to Christianity till the close of C*)century, and even at the pre-sent day retailcurious traces of paganism in theirsuperstitious usages. (De la. Marmora. roL IV. Natural Prodi-ctkot, ktcThe chief produce of Sardinia in aedfltf t was, as already mentioned, its com. iduced in large quantities for exportatioa msthe period of the Roman conquest- lu stracts were also well adapted for pastorac. native tribes subsisted matnlv on the flocks and herds (Diod. v. 15), whifc t3s»J **themselves with the skins, w hence ttimes called M pclliti Sardi.'* Thesessed mines both of silver and iron. <tf \first are said to have been considerable. (S->§ 4.) They were undoubtedly wvrkrd by i>mans, as we learn from existing traces asi 3the name of Metalla given lo a pUt-* inof the island, between Neapou^ and SUa. (•