OCR Output C. III.] POSITION OF THE ROMANS. 173 low-soldiers, and made supplication to him, that he wouldpardon the rashness of a few on account of the better obe­dience of all the rest; and promised for them, that theyshould make amends for their present fault by their morevirtuous behavior for the time to come. 5. So Caesar complied with their desires, and with whatprudence dictated to him also ; for he esteemed it fit to punishsingle persons by real executions, but that the punishmentof great multitudes should proceed no farther than reproofs:so he was reconciled to the soldiers, but gave them a specialcharge to act more wisely for the future; and he consideredwith himself how he might be even with the Jews for theirstratagem. And now, when the space between the Romansand the wall had been levelled, which was done in four days,and as he was desirous to bring the baggage of the army,with the rest of the multitude that followed him, safely to thecamp, he set the strongest part of his army over against thatwall which lay on the north quarter of the city, and overagainst the western part of it, and made his army seven deep,with the footmen placed before them, and the horsemen behindthem, each of the last in three ranks, while the archers stoodin the midst in seven ranks. And now, as the Jews wereprohibited, by so great a body of men, from making salliesupon the Romans, both the beasts that bare the burdens, andbelonged to the three legions, and the rest of the multitude,marched on without any fear. But as for Titus himself, hewas but about two furlongs distant from the wall, at that partof it where was the corner,' and over against that tower whichwas called Psephinus; at which tower the compass of thewall belonging to the north bended, and extended itself overagainst the west; but the other part of the army fortified it­self at the tower called Jiippicus, and was distant, in likemanner, but two furlongs from the city. However, the tenthlegion continued in its own place upon the Mount of Olives. 1 Perhaps, says Dr. Hudson, here was that gate called the Gate of theCorner, in 2 Chron. xxvi. 9. See ch. iv. sect. 2 15*