OCR Output 572 PELORUS.PELUSIUU. stationed, with the view both of threatening the city 1and preventing the Romans from crossing the straits. I(Pol. i. 11.) And at a later period, during the eon-test between Oct avian and Sextus Pompey in theneighbourhood of Messana, the headland of Pelorus Ionce inure became an important post, being one of the Ipoints sedulously guarded by Pompey in order toprevent his adversary from effecting a landing.(Appian, B C. v. 105, 116.) The actual promontory of Pelorus, as already men-tioned, is a low spit or point of sand, about 1 miles'in length, which has evidently been thrown up bythe currents, which flow with great rapidity throughthe straits. (Symth's Sicily, p. 109.) A tradition,reported by Diodorus, but as ancient as the time ofHesiod, represented it as an artificial work con­structed by the giant Orion, (Diod. iv, 85.) Withinthis sandy point, between the beach and the hills,are enclosed two small lakes or pools which arc fa­mous for pn ducing the best eels and cockles in .Sicily(Smyth, /. c.p. 106),—a reputation they already en­joyed in ancient times, as the "cockles of Pelorus"are repeatedly noticed by Athenaeus; and Solinus,who mentions the lakes in question, speaks of themas abounding in fish. There appear to have beenthree of them in his day, but the marvels which herelates of one of them are purely fabulous. (Allien,i. p. -4. c, iii. p. 92. f.; Solin. 5. 2—4.) A templeof Neptune stood in ancient times upon the promon­tory, iis well as a lighthouse or Pharos, the memoryof which is retained in the modern name of Pttntadel Faro, by which the cape is still known. Tin'sappellation seems to have indeed come into use be­fore the close of the Roman Empire, as Servius, indescribing the width of the Sicilian strait, measuresit "a Column a usque ad Pharon." (Serv. ml Aen,iii. 411.) Hut no remains of either building are nowvisible. [E.II. B.J PELO'RUS (rieAa-pos), a small river of Iberia, inAsia, probably a tributary of the Cyrus. (DionCass, xxxvii. 2; com p. Groskurd's Strab. vol. ii.p. 375.) PELSO (Aur. Vict, de Caw. 40) or PEISO(Plin. ih. 27), a considerable lake in the north ofPannonia. A ""large portion of it was drainedby the emperor Galerius, who conducted its watersinto the Danube, and thus reclaimed large tracts ofland, which formed an important addition to theprovince. (Aur. Vict. /. c.) The modern name ofthis lake is Plattensee: during rainy seasons it stilloverflows its banks far and wide, and forms extensivemarshes, which are probably the very districts thatwere drained by Galerius. Lake Pelso is mentionedunder different modifications of this name, such asLacus Pelsodis (Jornand. Get. 52, 53) and Pelsois(Geogr. Kav. iv. 19), while in the middle ages itwas called Pelissa. Muchar (Xoric. i. p. 3, &c.)regards Peiso and Pelso as two lakes, placingthe former, with Pliny, near the Deserta Hoiorum,and identifying it with the Neitsiedlersee, while headmits the Pelso to be the Plattensee. This hy­pothesis, however, can hardly be sustained, as it ispretty certain that the Xcttsiedlersee did not existin the times of the Romans, but was formed at alater perjiH.1. (Comp. SchennwiMier, Antiquitate*et IfUUrrta Sabartae, p 17, &c,; Liechtenberg,Geogr. des Ouster. Kaist rstaates, vol. iii p. 1245,&c.) [L.S.] PELTAE (rXfArw: Etk. ITf Antra?, Pelteni), aconsiderable town ot' Pinygia, was situated, ac­cording to Xenophon (Anab. i. 2. § 10), at a dis- tance of 10 parasanga from Cel.wnae, »tU«W<the river Maeander. Xenophun destriUs upopulous city, and sUtes that the «rmj « Cmremained there three days, during which i»nand sacrifices w ere performed. The reu:in£. TjUwhere the name is erroneously written P«lk piait, quite in accordance with Xenopbso, i6 nlfrom Apamea Cibottis, to the cooveatoi <A mPeltae belonged. (Plin. T. 29; cutnp. PtaL 4§ 25; Steph. B. «. r.) Strabo (xii. p. 576) mtions Peltae among the smaller towns of Ptorjand the Notitiae name it amoti? the efisM}fcof Phryeia Pacatiaua. The district in vhkb Itown was situated derived from it tbs bum d 1Peltaean plain (ncAnjitfror IWATvkrwJw', >7xiii. p. 629). Kiepert (ap. Franz, /»/ 1%/rkni)p. 36) fixes the site of Peltae at the piat* AMr. Hamilton found ruins of an ancient citj.ih8 miles south of Sandakli (Journal of fie iGeogr. Society, viii. p. 144); while Himftaiself (Researches, ii. p. 203) thinks that ii Ihave been situated more to the south-west, tarmodern Jshekli. But this latter hypaUss ■to place it too far west. [L-S PELTUI'NUM (Eth. Peltuinas. -ilk: A*nia), a considerable town of the VesUw-ttiithe four ascribed to that people by Fhnj (as. 17). Its name is not found in PtnteaJ*Itineraries, but its municipal importance t *3by various inscriptions. One of the** etafc*fact mentioned by Pliny, th.it the Aofiatt"closely connected with, or dependent on. Potapparently the more important place of tiwWe learn from the Liber Colon ia run (p. 2SS]it attained the rank of a colony, prktib.-y 1Augustus: but at a later period, as «an inscription of the date of A.D. 242, it *duced to the condition of a Praefectan. twseems to have been sliil a flourishing town. IJiucr. no. 4036 ; Zuinpt, de Coloniis, p.Its site was unknown to Cluverius, bat 1fixed with certainty at a spot calledbetween the villages of Cartel Xuero «a1about 14 miles SE. of Aquila, on toe n*ithence to Popoli. The ancient name is waia neiiihbourini: church, called in ecclwas:--!ments S. Paolo a Peltuitio. A conskfcrif *the circuit, of the ancient walls is ttill «4iremains of various public buildings, and taelan amphitheatre of reticulated work. (i«*Aveia, p. 119; Roman el li, vol. iii. pp. 2*MOrelli, Jnscr. 106. 3961, 39S1> [E H PELVA, a town of Dalmatia, which ti* iItinerary places on the road from Sim 'Jlonae. Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p& ^identifies it with Plewa, a plac« inriver of the same name, of which Perra »tinised form. [E I PELU'SIUM (nijXwtfior, Ptol ir. S. £15. § 11 ; bteph. B. s. r.; Strab. xvti. p. nj2 *YlT}\ov(Jtu>TT)?, T\i)Kov<rias ), was a citv <fUpypt, situated uyon tiie easteninK^t hai;k dthe Ostium Pelusiacum, to which ii ^-t\It was the Sin of the Hebrew Senear*xxx. 15); and this word, as wetl a* it* Jappellation, Percmoun or Perorni. and i(tt7)Aoj) import the city of the ouie <r 9Coptic, mud), Pelusium lyinc betw^board and the Deltaic maruhex. aboot tvil! miles from the sea. The Ostium lYl-^*I chunked by sand as early as thr hr>t <_■> :=1