OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 541 were none of sufficient weight and authority to establish a precedentfor the conduct of a Roman magistrate. The answer of Trajan, to which the Christians of the succeeding Trajan andage have frequently appealed, discovers as much regard for justice establish a Sand humanity as could be reconciled with his mistaken notions pr|ceed?ng °fof religious policy s*. Instead of displaying the implacable zeal of aga,nst'nem-an inquisitor, anxious to discover the most minute particles ofheresy, and exulting in the number of his victims, the emperorexpresses much more solicitude to protect the security of the in­nocent than to prevent the escape of the guilty. He acknowledgesthe difficulty of fixing any general plan; but he lays down twosalutary rules, which often afforded relief and support to thedistressed Christians. Though he directs the magistrates to punishsuch persons as are legally convicted, he prohibits them, witha very humane inconsistency, from making any inquiries concern­ing the supposed criminals. Nor was the magistrate allowed toproceed on every kind of information. Anonymous charges theemperor rejects, as too repugnant to the equity of his government;and he strictly requires, for the conviction of those to whom theguilt of Christianity is imputed, the positive evidence of a fair andopen accuser. It is likewise probable, that the persons who assumedso invidious an office, were obliged to declare the grounds of theirsuspicions, to specify (both in respect to time and place) the secretassemblies, which their Christian adversary had frequented, and todisclose a great number of circumstances, which were concealedwith the most vigilant jealousy, from the eye of the profane. Ifthey succeeded in their prosecution, they were exposed to theresentment of a considerable and active party, to the censure of themore liberal portion of mankind, and to the ignominy which, inevery age and country, has attended the character of an informer*K, on the contrary, they failed in their proofs, they incurred thesevere and perhaps capital penalty, which,, according to a-law pub­lished!