OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tWs or in a future life, the crime of perjury is most assuredlypunished by the avenging gods'. But whilst they acknowledgedthe general advantages of religion, they were convinced, that thevarious modes of worstiip contributed alike to the fame salutarypurposes; and that in every country, the form of superstition, whichhad received the sanction of time and experience, was the best adaptedto the climate, and to its inhabitants. Avarice and taste Very inthepw-frequently despoiled the vanquished nations of the elegant statues of vinces'their gods, and the rich ornaments of their temples IO: but, in theexercise of the religion which they derived from their ancestors,they uniformly experienced the indulgence, and even protection ofthe Roman conquerors. The province of Gaul seems, and indeedonly seems an exception to this universal toleration. Under the fairpretext of abolishing human sacrifices, the emperors Tiberius andClaudius, suppressed the dangerous power of the Druids ": but thepriests themselves, their gods and their altars, subsisted in peacefulobscurity till the final destruction of Paganism *\ Rome, the capital of a great monarchy, was incessantly filled with at Rome,subjects and strangers from every part of the world ,J, who all in­troduced and enjoyed the favourite superstitions of their nativecountry *. Every city in the empire was justified in maintaining'the purity of its ancient ceremonies; and the Roman senate, usingthe common privilege, sometimes interposed, to check this inunda­tion . of foreign rites. The Egyptian superstition, of all the mostcontemptible and abject, was frequently prohibited; the temples ofSerapis and Isis demolished, and their worshippers banished from Romeand Italy But the zeal of fanaticism prevailed over the coldand feeble efforts of policy. The exiles returned, the proselytesmultiplied, the temples were restored with increasing splendor,and Isis and Serapis at length assumed their place among theRoman deities ,6. Nor was this indulgence a departure from theold maxims of government. In the purest ages of the common­er.. I, F wealth,