OCR Output as. 1781-3 43 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ployed in ease and feasting, they fell uponthe watch when they were asleep, and en­tering into the city,* slew all the males, asalso the king and his son with them, butspared the women; and when they had donethis, without their father's consent, theybrought away their sister. Now, while Jacob was astonished at thisdaring act, and was severely blaming his sonsfor it, God stood by him,f and bid him be ofgood courage, but to purify his tents, and tooffer those sacrifices which he had vowed tooffer when he went first into Mesopotamia,and saw his vision. As he was therefore Eurifying his followers, he found the gods ofiaban, (for he did not before know they werestolen by Rachel,) and he hid them in theearth, under an oak, in Shechem; and de­parting thence, he offered sacrifice at Bethel,the place where he saw his vision when hewent first into Mesopotamia. When he was gone thence, and was comeover against Ephrata, he there buried Ra­chel,:}: who died in childbed; she was theonly one of Jacob's kindred that had not thehonour of burial at Hebron; and when hehad mourned for her a great while, he called the son that was born of her Benjamin,|| be­cause of the sorrow the mother had with him.These are all the children of Jacob, twelvemales, and one female; of whom eight werelegitimate, viz. six of Leah, and two of Ra­chel; and four were of the handmaids, twoof each, all whose names have been set downalready. CHAP. XXII. of Isaac's death and interment at hebron. FROM thence Jacob went to Hebron, acity situate among the Canaanites, andthe residence of Isaac; and there they livedtogether for a little while: for as to Rebeka,Jacob did not find her alive. Isaac also diednot long after the coming of his son, and wasburied, with his wife, in Hebron, where thefamily had a monument belonging to themfrom their forefathers. Now Isaac was a manwho was beloved of God, and was vouchsafedgreat instances of providence by God, afterAbraham his father, and lived to be exceed­ing old; for when he had lived virtuously onehundred and eighty-five years, he then died. * Why Josephus has omitted the circumcision of theseShechemites, as the occasion of their death; and of Jacob'sgreat grief, as in the testament of Levi, I cannot telh t Gen. xxxv. 1. % Gen. xxxv. 19. II Since Benoni signifies the son of my sorrow, andBenjamin the son of days, or one born in the father's oldage. Gen. xliv. 20, I suspect Josephus's present copies tobe here imperfect, and suppose that, in correspondence to other copies, he wrote that Rachel called her son's nameBenoni, but his father called him Benjamin; Gen. xxxv.18. As for Benjamin, as commonly explained, the son ofthe right-hand, it makes no sense at all, and seems to be agross modern error only. The Samaritan always writesthis name truly, Benjamin, which probably is here of thesame signification, only with the Chaldee termination ininstead of im, in the Hebrew. VOL. I.—NO. 4.