OCR Output 114 THE ANNALS [A. TJ. C. 77t ample, all military fame was transplanted to otherfamilies, till Camillus, the conqueror of Tacfarinas,once more revived the glory of his ancestors; but hedid it without their talents. He had seen no service,nor was he considered as an officer. Tiberius for thatreason was the more lavish in his praise. Triumphalornaments were decreed to him by the senate; norwas he afterwards ruined by his merit. His moder­ation, and the simplicity of his manners, screenedhim from envy. He enjoyed his honours with impu­nity. LIII. Tiberius and Germanicus were joint consulsfor the following year; the former for the third time,and the latter for the second. Germanicus, in thisjuncture, was absent from Rome, at the city of Nico-polis in Achaia. He had passed into Dalmatia, on avisit to his brother Drusus. From that place he sailedalong the coast of Illyricum; and after a tempestuousvoyage in the Adriatic and the Ionian seas, arrived atNocopolis, where he was invested with his new digni­ty. Hia fleet had suffered, and took some days to refitfor sea. In the mean time he seized the opportunityto view the Bay of Aetium, rendered famous by thegreat naval victory at that place. He saw the tro­phies consecrated by Augustus, and the lines of MarcAntony's camp. To him, who was grand-nephew toAugustus, and grandson to Marc Antony, the scenewas interesting. Every object reminded him of hisancestors; and every circumstance awakened thosetender sensations, in which the heart unites regretand pleasure. From Nicopolis he proceeded to Athens.In that city, the seat of valour and Of literature, andfor many years in alliance with Rome, he showed hisrespect for the inhabitants by appearing withoutpomp, attended only by a single lictor. The Greeksexhausted their invention to do him honour: inge­nious in the arts of flattery, they took care to blendwith their compliments frequent mention of the re­nowned exploits and memorable sayings of their an­cestors ; and thus, by enhancing their own merit, theythought they gave refinement, and even value, toadulation.