OCR Output 270 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. of faithful followers, he deserted to the Imperial camp;'exposed, in a specious tale, the injuries which hehad sustained; exaggerated the cruelty of Sapor, thediscontent of the people, and the weakness of themonarchy; and confidently offered himself as thehostage and guide of the Roman march. The mostrational grounds of suspicion were urged, withouteffect, by the wisdom and experience of Hormisdas;and the credulous Julian, receiving the traitor intohis bosom, was persuaded to issue an hasty order,which, in the opinion of mankind, appeared to ar足raign his prudence, and to endanger his safety. Hedestroyed, in a single hour, the whole navy, whichhad been transported above five hundred miles, at sogreat an expense of toil, of treasure, and of blood.Twelve, or, at the most, twenty-two, small vesselswere saved, to accompany, on carriages, the march ofthe army, and to form occasional bridges for thepassage of the rivers. A supply of twenty days pro足visions was reserved for the use of the soldiers; andthe rest of the magazines, with a fleet of eleven hun足dred vessels, which rode at anchor in the Tigris, wereabandoned to the flames, by the absolute commandof the emperor. Their authority, of less weight,perhaps, in a military question, is confirmed by thecool judgment of an experienced soldier, who washimself spectator of the conflagration, and who couldnot disapprove the reluctant murmurs of the troops *.Yet there are not wanting some specious, and per足haps solid, reasons, which might justify the resolutionof Julian. The navigation of the Euphrates neverascended above Babylon, nor that of the Tigris above * See Ammianus (xxiv. 7.). Libanius (Orat. Parentalis, c. 132, 133. p.356, 3ft7,)i Zosimus (1. iii p. 183.), Zonarus (torn. ii. L xiii. p. 26.), Gregory(Orat. iy. p. 116.), Augustin (de Civitate Dei, 1. iv. c. 29. l . v. c 21.). Ofthese, Libanius alone attempts a faint apology for his hero; who, according toAramuinus, pronounced his own condemnation, by a tardy and ineffectual attemptto extinguish the flames.