OCR Output 358 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [b. I. Trojan war, so many years afterward, is in great doubt, andgreat inquiry is made whether the Greeks used their lettersat that time; and the most prevailing opinion, and thatnearest the truth, is, that their present way of using thoseletters was unknown at that time. However, there is notany writing which the Greeks agree to be genuine amongthem# ancienter than Homer's poems,1 who must plainly beconfessed later than the siege of Troy; nay, the report goes,that even he did not leave his poems in writing, but that theirmemory was preserved in songs, and they were put togetherafterward; and that this is the reason of such a number ofvariations as are found in them. As for those who set them­selves about writing their histories, I mean such as Cadmusof Miletus, and Acusilaus of Argos, and any others that maybe mentioned as succeeding Acusilaus, they lived but a littlewhile before the Persian expedition into Greece. But thenfor those that first introduced philosophy, and the considera­tion of things celestial and divine among them, such as Pkere-cydes the Syrian, and Pythagoras, and Thales, all with oneconsent agree that they learned what they knew of theEgyptians and Chaldeans, and wrote but little. And theseare the things which are supposed to be the oldest of all amongthe Greeks; and they have much ado to believe that thewritings ascribed to those men are genuine. 3. How can it then be other than an absurd thing for theGreeks to be so proud, and to vaunt themselves to be theonly people that arc acquainted with antiquity, and that havedelivered the true accounts of those early times after anaccurate manner? Nay, who is there that cannot easilygather from the Greek writers themselves, that they knew 1 This preservation uf Homer's Poems by memory, and not by his ownwriting thcm down, and that thence they were styled rhapsodiss, as sung byhim, like ballads, by parts, and not composed and connected together incomplete works, are opinions well known from the ancient commentators;though such Bupposnl seems to myself, as well as to Fabricius, Iiiblioth.Grace, i. p. '269, and to others, highly improbable. Nor does Josephus saythere were no ancienter writings among the Greeks th;in Homer-s poems,but that they did not fully own any ancienter writings pretending to suchantiquity, which is true.