OCR Output 326 (boo* tt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. "God hath said, since thou hast despised himas not being God, and so unable to foretellthe truth about thy distemper, but hast sentto the god of Ekron to inquire of him; knowthis that thou shalt die." Accordingly the king died in a very littletime,* as Elijah had "foretold; and Joramhis brother succeeded him in the kingdom,for he died without children. This Joramtwas like his father Ahab in wickedness, andreigned twelve years, indulging himself in allsorts of wickedness and impiety towards God;for leaving off his worship, he worshippedforeign gods. But in other respects he wasan active man. Now at this time Elijah dis­appeared from among men; and no oneknows of his death to this very day; but heleft behind him his disciple Elisha, as wehave formerly declared. And indeed, as toElijah, and as to Enoch, who lived before thedeluge, it was written in the sacred booksthat they disappeared; but so, that nobodyknew they died. chap. m. OP AN EXPEDITION MADE BT JORAM AWn JF.MOSHAPHATAGAINST THE MOABITES; THE WORKS OF ELISHA, ANDTHE DEATH OF JEHOSHAPHAT. WHEN Joram had taken upon him J thekingdom, he determined to make anexpedition against the king of Moab, whosename was Mesha. For as we have said be­fore, he was departed from his obedience tohis brother Ahaziah; while he payed to hisfather Ahab, ||two hundred thousand sheepwith their fleeces of wool. When thereforehe had gathered his own army together, hesent to Jehoshaphat, and intreated him, thatsince he had from the beginning been afriend to his father, he would assist him inthe war that he was entering into against theMoabites, who had departed from their obe­dience. Jehoshaphat readily promised thathe would assist him, and would oblige theking of Edom, who was under his authority, * An. 898. t Josephus's character of Joram seems much worsethan that in our Hebrew and Greek copies; which say,2 Kings iii. 2, 3. that although he followed the calves ofJeroboam, yet did he not act like his father Ahab, (andhis mother Jezebel, because he put away the image ofBaal that his father had made.) Where we may note thatnot only the Alexandrian MS. omits the last branch in­ to make the same expedition also. WhenJoram had received these assurances, hetook his army with him, and came to Jeru­salem; and when he had been sumptuouslyentertained by the king of Jerusalem, it wasresolved upon by them to make their marchagainst their enemies through the wildernessof Edom. And when they had taken a com­pass of seven days' journey, they were in dis­tress for want of water for the cattle, and forthe army; from the mistake of their roadsby the guides that conducted them; inso­much that they were all in an agony, espe­cially Joram; and cried to God, by reason oftheir sorrow, and desired to know whatwickedness had been committed by them,that induced him to deliver three kings to­gether, without fighting, into the hands of theking of Moab? But Jehoshaphat, who was arighteous man, encouraged him, and badehim send to the camp, and know whetherany prophet of God was come along withthem; that they might by him learn from Godwhat they should do. And when one of theservants of Joram said, he had seen thereElisha, the son of Shaphat, the disciple ofElijah, the three kings went to him, at theintreaty of Jehoshaphat. And when theywere come to the prophet's tent, without thecamp; they asked him, what would becomeof the army? and Joram was particularlypressing with him about it. And when hereplied to him, that he should not troublehim; but go to his father's and mother's pro­phets; for they, to be sure, were true pro­phets; he still desired him to prophesy, andto save them. So he sware by God, that hewould not answer him, unless it were on ac­count of Jehoshaphat, who was a holy andrighteous man; and when, at his desire, theybrought him a man that could play on thepsaltery, the Divine Spirit came upon him,as the music played; and he commandedthem to dig many trenches in the valley:"For," said he," though there appear neithercloud, nor wind, nor storm of rain, ye shall closed in parentheses; but that the following characters,and circumstances, and divine punishment of this Joramin all our copies, favour the worse character in JosephusSee 2 Kings iii. 13, 14. vi. 31, 32. ix. 7, 8, 9, 10, 22—26 t An. 895. II One hundred lambs, and one hundred thousand rams,Hebrew and Septuagint -. 1