OCR Output PELODES. PELORUS. 57! u < issnias (vii. 27). Of these, tlie roost• a temple of Athena, with a stutiie ofaid To hare been one of the earliera temple of Dionvsus Lampter,i festival. Lampteria, was cele-nple of Apollo Theoxenius, to whom ats celebrated; a gymnasium,. Sarr Madia from the city was the Mysneumitmm ), a tempi* of the Mjaian Demeter; andtil Kraaieof Asclepins, called Cyrus (KOpoi):nil <t tase places there were copious springs,i rum of Pellene are situated at Ziyr6, and arei alW 7W«Wi. The two temples of MysaeumCyras an placed by Leake at Trikkala, SE. ofdev. (Leake, iforto, roL iii. p. 215, :p.wi.) I Aeciom and Pellene, there was a TillageiW Pellfne. celebrated for the manufacturei pmrahr kind of cloaks, which were given asa> a Oto ag oni.tie contests in the city. (Strub.VX; Find. OL is. 146, with Schol.; Aristoph.Ml. with Schol.; Hesveh. and Phot, a v.•vol rAoirai.) K. 0. Mttller (Aw. vol. ii.HI auwviei, questions this second Pellene: be■as mat Sera bo is describing Pellene as bothV mi vitiate, and he corrects the test, auralwre(i Ary-.ou ml KvAA^s, instead of rWA-n. bat tie oootext renders this conjecture im- at sarfeoar of Pellene was called Aristonai takrsasu), and was distant 60 stadia froma». ass] ISO from Aegeira. It is said to harer raOed from tbe Argonauts having landedits the aSJiu of their voyage. (Paus. vii. 26.| i It. § 2.) It was probably on the site of\*s-t Kamiri. (Leake, Morea, vol. Iii. p. 384.)•r s> tax E-. near tbe coast, was the fortressr • "oxatvos), dependent upon Pellene; Leakela at Xjio-autro. It would thus have stoodr in ess ■ of* the gorge leading from the mari-£n into tb» territory of Pellene, and would itki 0"< of great importance to tbe(Xen. Hell. vii. 14. §§ 17,iii. 3; Steph. B. ».».; Leake,Aristonautae was Goju'hsai), to which Homer givespass a** lorry (aiaws)). According to Pau-i a> proper nsune was 1)o;iussa (Aovovaaa),)*m caaaaged by Peisistratns into Gonocssa,at eaUactcd the poems of Homer. Pausaniashat at «ts» a fortress belonging to the Sicy-l aat kay bet wen Aegeira and Pellene; but■ pattiaa w» miv infer that it was at onefapafaat upon Pellent. Leake places it at-I torn Wtj nwontain, at tbe foot of whichAristonantae. (Horn. //. ii.§ 13; Leake. toL iii. p. 385.)[Pella^a.] PORTUS. [Bt-rnnoTCM.]ITClSULAE, nine small islands lyinghacav «• tlw Argolic coast. (Pans. ii. 34.TWt rat be the islands lying betweeno*f which Pityonnesua (An- ghtotri) is the largest. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 20; Leake,Morea, ToL ii. p. 455.) PEL0P0NNF/SUS. [Graecia.] PELO'RUS, PELCVRIS, or PELOTtl AS (nfavpot&Kpa, Ptol.; lleAifpwf, Time, Dion. Per ; IfaAafpsttfjPol., Strab.: Can© diFaro), a celebrated promontoryof Sicily, forming the NR. extremity of the wholeisland, and one of the three promontories which wereconsidered to give to it the triangular form fromwhich it derived the name of Trinacria. (Pol. i. 42;Strab. vi. pp. 265,266; Diod. v. 2; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14;Dion. Per. 467—472; Ovid. Met xiii. 727.) Itwas at the same time the point which projectedfurthest towards tl>e opposite coast of Italy; so thatthe narrowest part of the Sicilian straits was thatwhich lay between Cape Pelorns and the coast ad­joining the headland of Caenys (Punta del Pezzo) onthe coast of Brnttium. [Caknys.] A strange storyis told by some Roman writers that it derived itsname from the pilot of Hannibal, who was put todeath by that general from a suspicion of treachery;thus overlooking the fact that it was known by thatname to the Greeks for centuries before the time ofHannibal. (Mel. ii. 7. § 17; Val. Max. ix. 8. § I;Sal I tut, ap. Serv. ad Aen. iii. 411.) The actualheadland of Pelorns, now called the Capo del Fitro,is a low, sandy point; but About 2 miles from its ex­tremity there begins a ridge of hills which quicklyrises into a range of mountains, of no great elevation,but steep and strongly marked. These continue inan unbroken range at the back of Messina, nearwhich they attain a height of about 3000 feet, andflank the east coast of the island as far as the neigh­bourhood of Taormina, where they turn abruptly tothe W. and stretch across in that direction withoutany real interruption, till they join the more loftygroup of the Monte Madonia. It is to this rangeof mountains that the name of Mom NeftcxiUis applied by Solinus (5. § 12), and which thatauthor describes as separating the Tyrrhenian andAdriatic (i. e. Sicilian) seas. But there is no realgeographical line of separation between these moun­tains and those further W., which were known tothe ancients as the Mons Nkbrodks. The headland of Pelorus may thus be looked uponas the extremity of a great mountain promontory,formed by the range of the Mons Keptunius, andextending from the neighbourhood of Messina tothat of Milazzo (Mylae), or, in a still wider sense,from Tauromenium on the E. coast to Tyndaris onthe N. Diodorus calls it 100 stadia from the pro­montory to Messana, and the distance is still com­monly reckoned 12 miles, though it docs not reallyexceed 8. (Diod. xiv. 56.) From its proximity to Messana and its positioncommanding the passage of the straits, Pelorns w.isan important naval station, and as such its name isfrequently mentioned in history. Thus, in B.C. 425,when the Athenian fleet under Laches was establishedat Rhegium, the Syracusans and their allies tookpost with their fleet at Pelorus, where they were sup­ported also by a land force. (Time. ir. 25.) InB.C. 396 the Carthaginian general Himilco took p«*tat Pelorus with his fleet and army, and, when tlieMessanians sallied out to attack him, by taking ad­vantage of a north wind, sent his fleet down suddenlyto Messana, which was surprised and taken beforethe troops could return to its defence. (Diod. xiv.56, 57.) Again, during the siege of Messana bythe Carthaginians at the commencement of the FirstPunic War, it was at Pelorus that their fleet was