OCR Output ao [book III ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK III. Containing an Interval of Two Years. FROM THE EXODUS OUT OF EGYPT, TO THE REJECTION OF THAT GENERATION. CHAP. I. OP THE VICISSITUDES EXPERIENCED BY THE HEBREWS INTHEIR JOURNEY TO MOUNT SINAI. WHEN the Hebrews had obtained sucha wonderful deliverance, the countrywas a great trouble to them, for it was en­tirely a desert, and had not water enough tosuffice any of the cattle; for it was parchedup, and had not moisture that might affordnutriment to the vegetables. So they wereforced to travel over this country, as havingno other route. They had, indeed, carriedwater with them from the land over whichthey had travelled before, as their conductorhad bidden them; but when that was spentthey were obliged to draw water out of wells,with pain, by reason of the hardness of thesoil. The water thus obtained, also, wasbitter, and unfit for drinking, and this in smallquantities. And as they thus travelled, theycame late in the evening to a place calledMarah,* from the badness of its waters: forMar denotes bitterness.f Thither they cameafflicted, both by the tediousness of the jour­ney, and by want of food; for it entirely failedthem at that time. Now here was a well,which induced them to stay in the place; foralthough it was not sufficient to satisfy sogreat an army, it afforded them some comfortin such a desert place; for they heard fromthose who had been to search, that there wasnothing to be found, if they travelled farther. * Dr. Bernard takes notice here, that this place Mar,where the waters were bitter, is called by the Syriansand Arabians, Mariri; and by the Syrians sometimesMarath, all derived from the Hebrew Mar: as also hetakes notice, that it is called the bitter fountain, by Pliny The water, however, was bitter, and not fitfor men to drink; and not only so, but it wasintolerable even to the cattle themselves. When Moses saw how much the peoplewere cast down, and that the occasion of itcould not be contradicted; for the peoplewere not in the nature of a complete army ofmen, who might oppose a manly fortitude tothe necessity that distressed them; and themultitude of the children and of the women,being of too weak capacities to be persuadedby reason, blunted the courage of the menthemselves; Moses was in great difficulties,and made every body's calamities to be hisown; for they all ran to him, and begged ofhim; the women begged for their infants, andthe men for the women, that he would notoverlook them, but procure some way orother for their deliverance. He thereforebetook himself to prayer to God, that hewould change the water, and make it fit fordrinking. And when God had granted himthat favour, he took the top of a stick that layat his feet, and divided it in the middle, andmade the section lengthways; he then let itdown into the well, and persuaded the He­brews that God had hearkened to his prayers,and had promised to render the water suchas they desired it to be, in case they wouldbe subservient to him in what he should en­join them to do, and this not after a remiss ornegligent manner. And when they asked,what they were to do in order to have the himself. Which waters are bitter still, as Thevenot as­sures us; as there are also abundance of palm-trees. Seehis Travels, part I. chap. xxvi. page 166.t Exod. xv. 23.