OCR Output 174 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. having been forced to feed upon one another; they held aparley about their surrender with the Athenian officers, whocommanded in the siege*, Xenophon, the son of Euripides,Hestiodorus, the son of Aristoclides, and Phanomachus, theson of Callimachus. They, sensible of the hardships theirtroops suffered by long lying abroad in the winter season, andthat the carrying on of the siege had already cost Athens twothousand talentsf, granted them a composition. The terms agreed on were these " That they should quit the place " with their wives, their children, and auxiliaries, every man" with one suit of .clothing, but the women with two ; and with" a certain sum of money to defray the expence of their de- " parture." By virtue of this composition they went away to Chalcis, where every one shifted for himself. But the Athe­nians called their^r/wc/s to account for their conduct, becausethey had signed this composition without their privity (forthey thought it in their power to have made them surrender atdiscretion), and afterwards sent to Potidaea some of their peo­ple whom they settled in a colony there.—These things weredone this' winter, and so ended the second year of this war,the history of which hath been compiled by Thucydides. • In this siege of Potidaca, two persons served amongst the heavy-armedas private soldiers, one of whom was the glory of human nature ; and theother the glory and bane of his country: I mean the divine Socrates, andat this time young Alcibiades. Plutarch (in the life of Alcibiades) says,they lay in the same tent, and fought always side by side- Once, in a sharpskirmish, both of them distinguished themselves above all their fellow-sol-diers. Alcibiades at length was wounded and dropped; Socrates stoodover and defended him, and saved both him and his arms from the enemy.Socrates therefore had the justest right to the public reward, as the personwho had behaved best in this action. But when the gtneralt, on accountof Alcibiades's quality, shewed a great desire to confer honour upon him.Socrates, willing also to increase his ardour for gallant actions, turned wit­ness in his favour, and procured bim the wreath and the public present ofacompleat suit of armour. Socrates coveted no recompence for brave ex­ploits but the consciousness of having performed them, and young Alcibi­ades was to be nursed up to virtue. He was capable of every degree eitherof virtue or vice : And Socrates always endeavoured to encourage him inthe former, and give his eager and enterprising soul the just direction. + 387.500.'. sterling.