OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. bition was yet unsatisfied; and the conqueror of the Gepidx turned his eyes fromthe Danube to the richer banks of the Po and the Tiber. Fifteen years had notelapsed since his subjects, the confederates of Narses, had visited the pleasantclimate of Italy: the mountains, the rivers, the highways, were familiar to theirmemory; the report of their success, perhaps the view of their spoils, had kin­dled in the rising generation the flame of emulation and enterprise. Their hopeswere encouraged by the spirit and eloquence of Alboin; and it is affirmed, thatbespoke to their senses, by producing, at the royal feast, the fairest and most ex­quisite fruits that grew spontaneously in the garden of the world. No sooner hadhe erected his standard, than the native strength of the Lombards was multipliedby the adventurous youth of Germany and Scythia. The robust peasantry ot No-ricum and Pannonia had resumed the manners of barbarians; and the names ofthe Gepidx, Bulgarians, Sarmatians, and Bavarians, may be distinctly traced inthe provinces of Italy. (1) Of the Saxons, the old allies of the Lombards, twentythousand warriors, with their wives and children, accepted the invitation of Al­boin. Their bravery contributed to his success; but the accession or the absenceof their numbers was not sensibly felt in the magnitude of his host. Every modeof religion was freely practised by its respective votaries. The king of the Lom­bards had been educated in the Arian heresy; but the catholics, in their publicworship, were allowed to pray for his conversion; while the more stubborn bar­barians sacrificed a she-goat, or perhaps a captive, to the gods of their fathers. (2)The Lombards, and their confederates, were united by their common attachmentto a chief, who excelled in all the virtues and vices of a savage hero; and the vi­gilance of Alboin provided an ample magazine of offensive and defensive arms forthe use of the expedition. The portable wealth of the Lombards attended themarch; their lands they cheerfully relinquished to the Avars, on the solemn pro­mise, which was made and accepted without a smile, that if they failed in theconquest of Italy, these voluntary exiles should be reinstated in their former pos­sessions. They might have failed, if Narses had been the antagonist of the Lombards;and the veteran warriors, the associates of his Gothic victory, would have en­countered with reluctance an enemy whom they dreaded and esteemed. But theweakness of the Byzantine court was subservient to the barbarian cause; and itwas for the ruin of Italy, that the emperor once listened to the complaints of hissubjects. The virtues of Narses were stained with avarice; and in his provin­cial reign of fifteen years he accumulated a treasure of gold and silver which sur­passed the modesty of a private fortune. His government was oppressive or un­popular, and the general discontent was expressed with freedom by the deputiesof Rome. Before the throne of Justin they boldly declared, that their Gothicservitude had been more tolerable than the despotism of a Greek eunuch; andthat, unless their tyrant were instantly removed, they would consult their ownhappiness in the choice of a master. The apprehension of a revolt was urged bythe voice of envy and detraction, which had so recently triumphed over the me­rits of Belisarius. A new exarch, Longinus, was appointed to supersede the con­queror of Italy; and the base motives of his recall were revealed in the insultingmandate of the empress Sophia, " that he should leave to men the exercise ofarms, and return to his proper station among the maidens of the palace, wherea distaff should be again placed in the hand of the eunuch." " I will spin hersuch a thread, as she shall not easily unravel!" is said to have been the replywhich indignation and conscious virtue extorted from the hero. Instead of at­tending, a slave and a victim, at the gate of the Byzantine palace he retired toNaples, from whence (if any credit is due to the belief of the times) Narses in­vited the Lombards to chastise the ingratitude of the prince and people. (3) Butthe passions of the people are furious and changeable; and the Romans soon re- ntlui et bclla caneliantor scripsit, memoriteqtie mandavit. (Eginard, in Vit. Carol. Magn. c. 29. p. 130, Ml.)The poems which Coldastcommends, (Animadvers. ad Eginard, p. 207.) appear to he recent and contempti­ble romances. , (1) The other nations are rehearsed by Paul. lib. ii. c. 6. 23.) Mnratnri (Anticliita Italiane, torn. i. dissert. 1.p. 4.) has discovered tbe village of the Bavarians, three miles from Modcna. (2) Gregory the Roman (Dialog, lib. apuil. Baron. Annal. Eccles. A. D. 579. No. 10.) soppnses lhat theylikewise adored this she-goat. I know but of one religion in which the god and the victim are the same. (3) The charge or tbe deacon against Narses (lib. ii. c. v.) may be groundless; but the weak apology of thecardinal (Baron. Annal. Eccles. A. D. J67. No. 8-12.) is rejected by the best critics—Pagi. (torn. ii. p. 639.640.)Mura'ori (Annali'dItalia, torn. v. p. 160—181.) and the last editors, Horatius, Blancns, (Script. Rerum. Italic,torn. i. p. 427,438.) and Philip Argelatui, (Sigon. Opera, torn. ii. p. 11.12.) The Narses who assisted at thecoronation of Justin, (Corippus. lib. iii. 221.) is clearly understood to be a different person.