OCR Output 482 DISSERTATION I. (3.) It was quite beside the purpose of Josephus to declarehimself here to be a Christian, or a believer in Jesus as thetrue Messiah. Had he intended so to do, he would surelyhave explained the meaning of the word Christ to his Greekand Roman readers: he would surely have been a great dealfuller and larger in his accounts of Christ, and of theChristian religion: nor would such a declaration at that timehave recommended him, or his nation, or his writings, toeither the Greeks or the Romans; of his reputation with bothwhich people he is known to have been, in the writing ofthese Antiquities, very greatly solicitous. (4.) Josephus's usual way of writing is historical anddeclarative of facts, and of the opinions of others, and butrarely such as directly informs us of his own opinion, unlesswe prudently gather it from what he says historically, or asthe opinions of others. This is very observable in thewritings of Josephus, and in particular as to what he says ofJohn the Baptist, and of James the Just; so that this in­terpretation is most probable, as most agreeable to Josephus'sway of writing in parallel cases. (5.) This seems to be the universal sense of all the ancientswithout exception, who cite this testimony from him; andthough they almost everywhere own this to be the true read­ing, yet do they everywhere suppose Josephus to be still anunbelieving Jew, and not a believing Christian : nay, Jeromappears so well assured of this interpretation, and thatJosephus did not mean to declare any more by these wordsthan a common opinion, that, according to his usual way ofinterpreting authors, not to the words but to the sense (ofwhich we have, I think, two more instances in his accountsout of Josephus, now before us,) he renders this clause cre-debatur esse Christus, i. e. he was believed to be Christ.Nor is the parallel expression of Pilate to be otherwise under­stood, when he made that inscription upon the cross, This isJesus the King of the Jews;1 which is well explained byhimself elsewhere, and corresponds to the import of thepresent clause, What shall I do with Jesus who is called 1 Matth. xxvii. 31.