OCR Output 744 SOMA,ROMA. under Alaric, Koine was captured and sacked ona third occasion in 410 (a. u. c. 1163) — thefirst time since the Gallic invasion that the cityhail actually been in the hands of an enemy. Butthough it was plundered by the Goths, it does notappear tn have sustained much damage at theirhands. They evacuated it on the sixth day, and allthe mischief they seem to have done was the settingfire to some houses near the Salarian gate, by whichthey had entered, which unfortunately spread toand destroyed the neighbouring palace of Sallust(Procop. B. V. i. 2.) Nearly half a century later, inthe reign of Maximos, Rome was again taken, andsacked by the Vandals, under Genseric, A. D. 455.This time the pillage tasted a fortnight; yet theprincipal damage inflicted on the monuments of thecity was the carrying oft' by Genseric of the curioustiles of gilt bronze which covered the temple of theCapitoline Jupiter (lb. 5). That edifice, with theexception, perhaps, of the spoliation by Slilicho,appears to have remained in much the same stateas after its last rebuilding by Domitian; and thoughpaganism had been abolished in the interval, thevenerable fane seems to have been respected by theKoman Christians. Yet, as may be perceived froman edict of the emperor Majorian, a. d* 457, theinhabitants of Koine had already commenced thedisgraceful practice of destroying the monuments oftheir ancestors. The /.eal of the Christians led themto deface some of the temples; others, which had notbeen converted into Christian churches, were sufferedto go to min, or were converted into quarries, fromwhich building materials were extracted. Petitionsfor that purpose were readily granted by the magis­trates; till Majorian cheeked the practice by a severeedict, which reserved to the emperor and senate thecognisance of those cases in which the destruction ofan ancient building might be allowed, imposed a fineof 50 lbs. of gold ('2000/. sterling) on any magis­trate who granted a license for such dilapidations,and condemned all subordinate officers engaged inSuch transactions to be whipped, and to have theirhands amputated (Aror. Major, tit. vi. p. 35: " An-liquarum aedium disaipatur speciosa constructio; ettit earum aliquid reparetur magna diruuntur," &c.) In tin- yt'.ir 47"2, in the reign of Olybrius, Koinewas for the third time taken and sacked by Kicimer;but this calamity, like the two former ones, does notAppear to have been productive of much damage tothe public monuments. These relics of her formerglory were the especial aire of Theodoric, the Os­trogoth, when lie became king of Italy, who, whenhe visited the capital in the year 500, hail surveyedthem with admiration. u The Gothic kings, so in­juriously accused of the ruiu of antiquity, wereanxious to preserve the monuments of the nation whomthey had subdued. The royal edicts were framed toprevent the abuses, the neglect, or the depredations ofthe citizens themselves; and a professed architect, theannual sum of 200 lbs. of gold, 25,000 tiles, and thereceipt of customs' from the Lucrine port, were as­signed for the ordinary repairs of the walls andpublic edifices. A similar care was extended to thestatues of metal or marble, of men or animals. Thespirit of the horses, which have given a modernname to the Quirinal, was applauded by the bar­barians; the brazen elephants of the Via Sacra werediligently restored; the famous heifer of Myrondeceived the cattle as they were driven through theforum of Peace; and an officer was created to protectthose works of art, which Theodoric considered as the noblest ornament of his kingdom.* (GVfcUa,Jkcline and Fall, vol. v. p. 21, ed. Smith ; d £*-eerpL de Odoac. Theod. 67.) The letters of Cm-siodorus, the secretary of Theodoric, show that Bnhad received little or no injury from its tana ahires. The Circus Maxim us was uwojared, iLudi Circenses were still exhibited there (Is51); the thermae and aqueducts were intact (Hi6); the Claudian aqueduct was still in pltf,Idischarged itself on the top of the Avenue* ■were a valley (lb.). That the aqueducts ialso appears from Procopius (B. G. L 19). v&sathat in the subsequent siege under Voip^ IGoths broke them down, to deprive the iof their supply of water. The theatres bad sionly from the effects of time, and were rtpaTti^Theodoric (Cassiod. ib. \v. 51.) In the year 536 the Gothic earrawo, texception of their commander Leadens, **> |ferred captivity to flight, evacuated Kant <approach of ltelisarius, the lieutenant of 1mBelisarius entered by the Asinarian gate, ian alienation of sixty years, Rome was |the imperial dominion. But in a few icity was beleaguered by the numerous best sffthe newly elected king of the Goths; iad ifence demanded all the valour and ability sf ^sarins. For this purpose he repaired tat 1which had again fallen into decay. Regular \were constructed; a chain was drawnTiber; the arches of the aqueduct* weiand the mole of Hadrian was converted idel. That part of the wall between the 1and Pincian gates, called vxuro tario, ineglected (Procop. B. G. i. 14. fcqq ), which ashave been regarded both by Goths and Iunder the peculiar protection of St. Peter,have before said, the Goths invested theory Idivisions, from the Porta FUminia to tat fPraenestina; whilst a seventhformed near the Vatican, for the purpose tmanding the Tiber and the Milvian bodge,general assault which followed, a feint was Ithe Salarian gate, but the principaldirected against the mole of Hadrian and tat|l'iacik\-4ni:i. It was. on ■•: li.iti former point the finest statues, the works sf 1teles and Lysippus, were converted into 1missiles, and hurled down upon the besiegerathe ditch of St. Angelo was cleansed ia the |cate of Urban VIII., the Sleeping Faun sf Iberini Palace was discovered, but in a sadly ■state. (Winckelmann, I/UL <h VA rj.vol.il \But the assault was not successful, and iless siege, which lasted a year, theforced to retire. After the recall of Belisarius the Guths:strength and courage, and, under TotHa. <threatened the walls of i; i .. In 544was again despatched into Italy, tofaults of the generals who had succeeded .on this occasion he wait deserted by his itune, and, after a fruitless attempt tocity, was compelled to retreat to Ostia.B. O. iii. 19.) In December, 546, the \admitted into the city by the treachery *[saurian sentinels posted at theRome was again subjected to pillage,to have suffered more than on any former IA third part of the walls was destroyedplaces, and a great many houses tr