OCR Output 218 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. of for long in Cyrene, Syria, and Asia Minor. Never sincethe commencement of the revolution had the government ofthe restoration been so firmly established, or so popular.Consular laws were substituted for tribunician; restrictionson liberty replaced measures of progress. The cancellingof the laws of Saturninus was a matter of course; the trans­marine colonies of Marrus disappeared down to a singlepetty settlement on the barbarous island of Corsica. Whenthe tribune of the people Sextus Titius—a caricaturedAlcibiades, who was greater in dancing and ball-playingthan in politics, and whose most eminent talent consistedin breaking the images of the gods in the streets at night—99. re-introduced and carried the Appuleian agrarian law in 655,the senate was able to annul the new law on a religiouspretext without any one even attempting to defend it; theauthor of it was punished, as we have already mentioned, by98. the equites in their tribunals. Next year (656) a law broughtin by the two consuls made the usual seven days' intervalbetween the introduction and the passing of a project of lawobligatory, and forbade the combination of several enactmentsdifferent in their nature in one proposal; by which means theunreasonable extent of the initiative power in legislation wasat least somewhat restricted, and the government was pre­vented from being openly taken by surprise with newlaws. It became daily more evident that the Gracchan con­stitution, which had survived the fall of its author, was now,since the multitude and the moneyed aristocracy no longerwent together, tottering to its foundations. As that consti­tution had been based on a division in the ranks of the aris­tocracy, so it seemed that dissensions in the ranks of theopposition could not fail to bring about its fall. Now, ifever, the time had come for completing the unfinished work of121. restoration of 633, for finally sending his constitution afterthe tyrant, and for replacing the governing oligarchy in thesole possession of political power.Collision Everything depended on recovering the nomination of the between the jurymen. The administration of the provinces—the chiefequites In foundation of the senatorial government—had become de-theadmi- pendent on the jury courts, more particularly on the com-nistration of mission regarding exactions, to such a degree that thethe pro- governor of a province seemed to administer it no longervinces. £or ^ genate, Dut; for the or(ier of capitalists and merchants.Ready as the moneyed aristocracy always was to meet the