OCR Output 266 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B. VII. or an old comrade, moving off; throwing their armsabout their necks, and fo dragged along whilst theycould keep their hold; but, when strength and bodilyvigour tailed and left them destitute or resource, theygave them the last adieu, not without a shower of cur­ses and a hideous howl. By such cutting incidents thewhole army was silled with tears and a wild irresolution;fo that they could not depart without the highest regret,though from a spot so hostile, where they had sufferedmore than tears could alleviate; and the dread,of more,which yet might be impending, was inexpressible. De­jection of the head and self-accusation were generalthrough all the troops; and they resembled nothing lessthan a large subjugated city, whose numerous inhabi-tants were escaping from the fury of a sack; for the a-mountof those, who were now marching off together,was not less than forty thousand men. Of these, the generality carried off merely what ne­cessary subsistence they had scraped together; but theheavy-armed and horsemen, contrary to custom, werenow obliged to carry their own sustenance themselvesbeneath their armour; some, because they had none;others, because they durst not trust their servants. Thedesertions had for a long time been large, but of late ingreater numbers than ever. Neither were they thusprovided with susficient stores for there was no longerany corn to be found in the camp. Nay, truly, thegeneral calamity and equability of misfortunes, whichin many cafes alleviate the pain as numbers are in­volved, were unable to render the present evils in anydegree supportable; especially when the thought oc­curred, srom what a height of splendor and precedingglory, to what a plunge and miserable state they werenow reduced! For, a most cruel turn of fortune thisreally proved to a Grecian army; who, coming hitherto inflave others, were departing now with the fad al­ternative of fearing to be made slaves themselves; and,instead of the prayers and pæans with which they first began