OCR Output m THE DECUNE AND KAU. Arabians disdained the study of any foreign idiom. The Greek interpreters werechosen among their Christian subjects; they formed the translations, sometimeson the original text, more frequently perhaps on a Syriac version; and in the crowdof astronomers and physicians, there is no example of a poet, an orator, or evenan historian, being taught to speak the language of the Saracens.(l) The mytho­logy of Homer would have provoked the abhorrence of those stern fanatics; theypossessed in lazy ignorance the colonies of the Macedonians, and the provinces ofCarthage and Rome: theiheroes of Plutarch and Livy were buried in oblivion; andthe history of the world before Mahomet was reduced to a short legend of the pa­triarchs, the prophets, and the Persian kings. Our education in the Greek andJ.atin schools may have fixed in our minds a standard of exclusive taste; and I amnot forward to condemn the literature and judgments of nations, of whose language2 am ignorant. Yet I know that the classics have much to teach, and I believe thatthe orientals have much to learn: the temperate dignity of style, the graceful pro­portions of art, the forms of visible and intellectual beauty, the just delineation ofcharacter and passion, the rhetoric of narrative and argument, the regular fabricof epic and dramatic poetry. (2) The influence of truth and reason is of a lessambiguous complexion. The philosophers of Athens and Rome enjoyed the bless­ings and asserted the rights, of civil and religious freedom. Their moral and po­litical writings might have gradually unlocked the fetters of eastern despotism,diffused a liberal spirit of inquiry and toleration, and encouraged the Arabian sagesto suspect that their caliph was a tyrant and their prophet an impostor. (3) Theinstinct of superstition was alarmed by the introduction even of the abstract sci­ences; and the more rigid doctors of the law condemned the rash and perniciouscuriosity of Almamon.(4) To the thirst of martyrdom, the vision of paradise,and the belief of predestination, we must ascribe the invincible enthusiasm of theprince and people. And the sword of the Saracens became less formidable, whentheir youth was drawn away from the camp to the college, when the armies of thefaithful presumed to read and to reflect. Yet the foolish vanity of the Greeks wasjealous of their studies, and reluctantly imparted the sacred fire to the barbariansof the east. (5) In the bloody conflict of the Ommiades and Abbassides, the Greeks had stolenthe opportunity of avenging their wrongs, and enlarging their limits. But a severeretribution was enacted by Mohadi, the third caliph of the new dynasty, whoseizedJn his turn the favourable opportunity, while a woman and a child, Irene and Con-stantine, were seated on the Byzantine throne. An army of ninety-five thousandPersians and Arabs was sent from the Tigris to the Thracian Bosphorus, under thecommand of Harun,(6) or Aaron, the second son of the commander of the faith­ful His encampment on the opposite heights of Chrysopolis or Scutari, informedIrene, in her palace of Constantinople, of the loss of her troops and provinces.With the consent or connivance of their sovereign, her ministers subscribed an ig­nominious peace; and the exchange of some royal gifts could not disguise the an­nual tribute of seventy thousand dinars of gold, which was imposed on the Romanempire. The Saracens had too rashly advanced into the midst of a distant andhostile land: their retreat was solicited by the promise of faithful guides and plen­tiful markets; and not a Greek had courage to whisper, that their weary forcesnight be surrounded and destroyed in their necessary passage between a slipperymountain and the river Sangarius. Five years after this expedition, Harun ascend­ed the throne of his father, and his elder brother; the most powerful and vigorous as, by Tbeophilns, ayards the end of thedo not believe, that (1) Abnlpharagius, (Dynast, p. 25.148.) mentions a Syriac version of Homer** two poems, by"Christian Maronite of mount Libanus, who protested astronomy at Roha or Edessa, towr-1-«lghth century. His work would be a literary cariosity. I have read somewhere, but I ipPutaroh's Lives were translated into Turkish for the use of Mahomet the Second. (2) I haveperused with much pleasure, Sir 'William Jones1 Latin Commentary on Asiatic Poetry, (London.1774, in octavo,) which was composed in the youth of that wonderful linguist. At present, in the maturity ofhis taste and judgment, be would perhaps abate of thefervent, and even partial, praise which be has bestowedon Ibe orientals. (3) Among the Arabian philosophers, Averroes has been accused of despising the religion of the Jews, theChristians, and the Mahometans, (See his article in Bayle's Dictionary.) Each of these sects would agree, thatin two instances out of three, his contempt was reasonable. (4) D'Herbelot, Brbliotheque Orientate, p. 543. (5) ©l0t>M» *T07tev xpimi SI T)JVT»V ovtwv yvwff-tv, li tjv TB Pwjuaiav yives SKUjtM^tTtti axSorev JTOI?[Ttl Ttls ifoeff*!, tie. Cedrenus, p. 548, who relates how manfully the emperor refused a mathematician to the instances, andoften of the caliph Almamon. This absurd scruple is expressed almost in the same words by the eontinuatorof Theopbanea, (Scriptores post Theophanem, p. 118.) (8) See the reign and character of Harun at Rashid,in flie Ribliotheque Orientale, p. 431. 433. under his pro*tier title; and in the relative articles to which M. d'Hcrbelot refers. That learned collector hai slrowu mucbxasfein stripping Ore Oriental chronicles of (heir instructive and arjruiirig antctfotd