OCR Output ROMA. KOMA. 777 *ct*J npoo it (M. ix. 46), &c But that it had | ahar appears from the circumstance that sacri-« of lire fish taken in the Tiber were here made» VaJean, m propitiation fur human souls. (Kestusi ■ ■ UarU l.wii. p. 238, MM.) Another factwhichv*> il to have been an open space, and at the same» Mods to direct us to its site, is the lotus-treead grew upon it, the roota of which are said toi« pFDrtrated as tar as the forum of Caesar, which,»r»haJl show in its proper section, lay a little N.the Forum Roman um, ** Verum altera lotosViksaafi, quod Bomuiua constituit ex victoria deurbt intelligitur, ut auctor estejus in forum usque Caesaris■ tuz»Mw* municipiomm penetrant" (Plin. xvi.) From which passage — whatever may bessjht of the tale of the tree — we deduce theseJ - that the Vulranal existed in the time ofb* . that it had occupied the same spot from timewanonaJ; that it could not have been at anyf press distance from the forum of Caesar, other-»la* roots of the tree could not possibly have-tad thither. Let those consider this last cir-a'snrv who hold with Canina that the comitiuin■a taw south aide of the forum; or even with■es sod Becker that it was on the east. Thema.it originally have occupied a considera-wate it is represented as having served for■at of essvnJtation between Romulus snd Tatius,i tiasr respective senates. (Dionys. ii. 60; Pint»- 10.) its extent, however, seems to have beenof time, since the Graecostasisarea; a fact which appears fromAedea Concordiae, built by Fla-*i facing ** in area VuIrani " (ix. 46); whilstf *ays that it waw on the Graecoatasis ('' aedicu-aereasa (Concordiae) fecit in Graecostasi, quaewfra comitium erst," xxxiii. 6); whence theof the Vulcanal may be further deduced;r«e know that the Graecostasis adjoined theisj :h+ latter, as will be shown presently, lay * S saie of the forum. Hence the VulcanalI **i tare been close to the curia and forum;m a ran back in a N. direction towards theif wjimjlfj occupied by the Forum Caesaris. • t' u further confirmed by the Xotttt'a, whichI Cat Area. Vutaaxu, as well as the Tempi urnBaa* and Basilica Paulli in the 4th Kegio.w aaawad says (Retptmen, p. 128), that the poaaa'hJj be mentiuned in its right place- iii it stood immediately over the forum in-V VMurhotxi of the temple of Faustina, wherei Carat Hoatilia stood; but his only reason forsaartaai as Becker's dictum respecting thesni at p. 2S6, of which we have already seenk > Jige cocnitium, then, would occupy thatf taw from which bay immediately under the■aJ, Bribe W. part of it»N. side; a situation whichbraaal br other evidence. bionysius says that,w.m«ct-aeax uf Romulus, it was in the mosttjtmm part of tba forum (#V t*> tyaypwrarigtPBjj, IL 29), a description which corresponds»ut wsua the* site proposed. Livy (i. 36)fcu tne stxtoe? of Ai tins Navius was on thei taw auanitiiup on the Uft of the curia, whencer a* wawrrnd tbavt the comitiuin extended onuto ^ ife* curia. Pliny (xxxiv. 11) speak- LSb, —k> statue, says that it stood beforeis, and that its basis was burnt in the same •.-. cwbumed that building when the body of Hence, we are led to suppose that the comitiuinoccupied a considerable part of the N. side of theforum; but its exact limits, from the want of satis­factory evidence, we are unable to define. It musthave been a slightly elevated place, since we hearof its having steps; and its fonn was probably cur­vilinear, as Pliny (xxxiv. 12) speaks of the statuesof Pythagoras and Alcibiades being at its horns (" incornibus Comitii"); unless this merely alludes to theangle it may have formed at the corner of the forum.It has been sometimes erroneously regarded ashaving a roof; a mistake which seems to havearisen from a misinterpretation of a passage in Livy,in which that author says that in b. c. 209 thei omitium was covered for the first time since Han­nibal had been in Italy (" Eo anno priinum, ex quoHannibal in Italiam venisset, cotnitium tectum esse,memoriae proditum est," xxvii. 36). Hence, it wasthought, that from this time the comitium wascovered with a permanent roof. But Piale (delForo Rom. p. 15, seq.) pointed out that in thismanner there would be no sense in the words "forthe first time since Hannibal was in Italy," whichindicate a repeated covering. The whole contextshows that the historian is alluding to a revived ce­lebration of the Roman games, in the usual fashion;and that the covering is nothing more than the velaor canvas, which on such occasions was spread overthe comitium, to shade the spectators who occupiedit from the sun. That the comitium was an open placeis evident from many circumstances. Thus, the pro­digious rain, which so frequently falls in the nar­rative of Livy, is described as wetting it (Liv.xxxiv. 45; Jul. Obseq. c. 103), and troops are re­presented as marching over it. It was here, also,that the famous Kuminalis Arbor grew (Tac. Ann.xiii. 58), which seems to have been transplantedthither from the Palatine by some juggle of AttiusNavius, the celebrated augur (Plin. xv. 20; ap.Bnnsen, Let Forum de Rom. p. 43, *eq.), thoughwe can by no means accede to Bunsen's emendationof that passage. The principal destination of the comitium wasfor holding the comitia curiata, and for hearinglawsuits ('' Comitium ab eo quod coibant eo, co-mitiis curiatis, et litium causa," Var. L. L. v. § 155,Mull.), and it must, therefore, have been capable ofcontaining a considerable number of persons. '1 hecomitia centuriata, on the other hand, were held inthe Campus Martius; and the tributa on the forumproper. The curiata were, however, sometimes heldon the Capitol before the Curia Culabra. The comi­tium was also originally the proper place for contiones,or addresses delivered to the assembled people. Allthese customs caused it to be regarded as morehonourable and important than the forum, which atfirst was nothing more than a mere market-place.Hence, we frequently find it spoken of as a moredistinguished place than the forum; and seats uponit for viewing the games were assigned to per­sons of rank. Its distinction from the forum, asa place of honour for the magistrates, is clearlymarked in the following passage of Livy, describingthe alarm and confusion at Kome after the defeat atTrasiinene: "Komae ad primum nnntium cladiaejus cum ingenti terrors ac tumultu concursus mforum populi est fact us. Matronae vagae jer vias,quae repens clades adlata, quaere fortuna cxercitusesset, obvit* percontantur. Et quum frequeutiscontionis modo turba in comitium et curiam versamagistrates vocareC &c. (xxil 7). When not oc-