OCR Output 2G0 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. were allowed before a Roman was delivered into thexxxvn- power of his fellow-citizen. In this private prison,twelve ounces of rice were his daily food; he mightbe bound with a chain of fifteen pounds weight; andhis misery was thrice exposed in the market-place, tosolicit the compassion of his friends and countrymen.At the expiration of sixty days, the debt was dis­charged by the loss of liberty or life; the insolventdebtor was either put to death, or sold in foreignslavery beyond the Tyber: but if several creditorswere alike obstinate and unrelenting, they might le­gally dismember his body, and satiate their revengeby this horrid partition. The advocates for this savagelaw have insisted, that it must strongly operate indeterring idleness and fraud from contracting debtswhich they were unable to discharge; but experiencewould dissipate this salutary terror, by proving, thatno creditor could be found to exact this unprofitablepenalty of life or limb. As the manners of Romewere insensibly polished, the criminal code of thedecemvirs was abolished by the humanity of accusers,witnesses, and judges; and impunity became the con­sequence of immoderate rigour. The Porcian andValerian laws prohibited the magistrates from inflict­ing on a free citizen any capital, or even corporalpunishment; and the obsolete statutes of blood wereartfully, and perhaps truly, ascribed to the spirit, notof patrician, but of regal, tyranny. Abolition or In the absence of penal laws and the insufficiency oblivion of . .. . . - -, . . r , penal laws, of civil actions, the peace and justice or the city wereimperfectly maintained by the private jurisdiction ofthe citizens. The malefactors who replenish our gaolsare the outcasts of society, and the crimes for whichthey suffer may be commonly ascribed to ignorance,poverty, and brutal appetite. For the perpetrationof similar enormities, a vile plebeian might claim andabuse the sacred character of a member of the re­