OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 17 summer and winter solstice during an equal period offorty days.' The long night of his absence or deathwas the mournful season of distress and anxiety, till themessengers who had been sent to the mountain-tops,descried the first rays of returning light, and proclaimedto the plain below the festival of his resurrection." The life of Theodoric represents the rare and merito- His deicn-rious example of a barbarian, who sheathed his sword inthe pride of victory and the vigour of his age. A reignof three-and-thirty years was consecrated to the duties ofcivil government, and the hostilities in which he wassometimes involved, were speedily terminated by the con­duct of his lieutenants, the discipline of his troops, thearms of his allies, and even by the terror of his name.'He reduced, under a strong and regular government,the unprofitable countries of Rhastia, Noricum, Dalma-tia, and Pannonia, from the source of the Danube andthe territory of the Bavarians/ to the petty kingdomerected by the Gepidae on the ruins of Sirmium. Hisprudence could not safely intrust the bulwark of Italyto such feeble and turbulent neighbours; and his justicemight claim the lands which they oppressed, either as apart of his kingdom, or as the inheritance of his father.The greatness of a servant, who was named perfidiousbecause he was successful, awakened the jealousy of theemperor Anastasius; and a war was kindled on the Da-cian frontier, by the protection which the Gothic king, I In the system or romance of M. Bailly, (Lettres sur les Sciences et sar l'Atlantide,tom 1. p. 249—356. tom. 2. p. 114—139.) the phoenix of the Edda, and the annualdeath and revival of Adonis and Osiris, are the allegorical'symbols of the absenceand return of the sun in the arctic regions. The ingenious writer is a wortby dis­ciple of the great Buffon : nor is it easy for the coldest reason to withstand themagic of their philosopby. « Aut>i ts ©yXirai; fi jotsj'tfl'rii tot Eograjv wn, says Procopius. At present a rndoManicheism (generons enough) prevails among the Samoyedes in Greenland and inLapland; (Hist. des Voyages, tom. 18. p. 508,509. tom. 19. p. 105,106. 527,528.)yet, according to Grotius, Samojutae coelum atque astra adoraHt, numina baud aliisiniquiora (de Rebus Belgicis, lib. 4. p. 338. folio edition) : a sentence which Tacitiuswould not have disowned. ■ x See the Hist, des Peoples Anoiens, &c. tom. 9. p. 255—273. 396—501. The.count de-Buat was French minister at the court of Bavaria: a liberal curiosity prompt­ed his inquiries into the antiquities of the country, and that curiosity was the ge; »iof twelve respectable volumes.