OCR Output 3 DECLINE AND FALL. [CHAP. XXXIX. the ample pay of thirteen thousand men, were requiredfor the least considerable of their armies;+ and the Isau-rians, who guarded not the empire, but the emperor, en­joyed, besides the privilege of rapine, an annual pension<pf five thousand pounds. The sagacious mind of Theo-doric soon perceived that he was odious to the Romans,and suspected by the barbarians; he understood the po­pular murmur, that his subjects were exposed in theirfrozen huts to intolerable hardships, while their kingwas dissolved in the luxury of Greece; and he preventedthe painful alternative of encountering the Goths, as thechampion, or of leading them to the field as the enemy,©f Zeno. Embracing an enterprise wor thy of his courageand ambition, Theodoric addressed the emperor in thefollowing words:—" Although your servant is main­tained in affluence by your liberality, graciously listen tothe wishes of my heart! Italy, the inheritance of yourpredecessors, and Rome itself, the head and mistress ofthe world, now fluctuate under the violence and oppres­sion of Odoacer the mercenary. Direct me, with mynational troops, to march against the tyrant. If I fall,you will be relieved from an expensive and troublesomefriend: if with the divine permission, I succeed, I shallgovern in, your name, and to your glory, the Roman se­nate, and the part of the republic delivered from slaveryby my victorious arms." The proposal of Theodoric wasaccepted, and perhaps had been suggested, by the Byzan­tine court But the forms of the commission, or grant,appear to have been expressed with a prudent ambiguity,which might be explained by the event; and it was leftdoubtful, whether the conqueror of Italy should reign asthe lieutenant, the vassal, or the ally, of the emperor ofthe east.q Hit march. The reputation both of the leader and of the war dif- P Malohas, p. 85. In a single action which was decided by the skill and disci­pline of Sabiman, Theodoric could lose live thousand men.' 1 Jornandes, (c. 57. p. 696, 697.) has abridged the great history of Cassiodorius.See, compare, and reconcile, Procopius, (Gothic, lib. 1. c. 1.) the Valesian Frag,meat, (p. 718.) Theophanes, (p. 113.) and Marcellinas,(in Chran.)