OCR Output 528 THE DECLINE AND FALL vine law:(l) the whole was faithfully collected in one common mass: a fifth of thegold and silver, the prisoners and cattle, the moveables and immoveables, werereserved by the prophet for pious and charitable uses; the remainder was sharedin adequate portions, by the soldiers who had obtained the victory or guarded thecamp; the rewards of the slain devolved to their widows and orphans; and theincrease of cavalry was encouraged by the allotment of a double share to the horseand to the man. From all sides the roving Arabs were allured to the standard ofreligion and' plunder: the apostle sanctified the license of embracing the femalecaptives as their wives or concubines; and the enjoyment of wealth and beautywas a feeble type of the joys of paradise prepared for the valiant martyrs of thefaith. " The sword (says Mahomet) is the key of heaven and of hell; a drop ofblood shed in the cause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail than twomonths of fasting or prayer: whosoever falls in battle, his sins are forgiven: at theday of judgment his wounds shall be resplendent as vermilion, and odoriferous asmusk: and the loss of his limbs shall be supplied by the wings of angels and che-rubims." The intrepid souls of the Arabs were fired with enthusiasm: the pic­ture of the invisible world was strongly painted on their imagination; and the deathwhich they had always despised became an object of hope and desire. The Koraninculcates, in the most absolute sense, the tenets of fate and predestination, whichwould extinguish both industry and virtue, if the actions of man were governed byhis speculative belief. Yet their influence in every age has exalted the courageof the Saracens and Turks. The first companions of Mahomet advanced to bat­tle with a fearless confidence: there is no danger where there is no chance: theywere ordained to perish in their beds; or they were safe and invulnerable amidstthe darts of the enemy. (2) Perhaps the Koreish would have been content with the flight of Mahomet, hadthey not been provoked and alarmed by the vengeance of an enemy, who couldintercept their Syrian trade as it passed and repassed through the territory of Me­dina. Abu Sophian himself, with only thirty or forty followers, conducted a weal­thy caravan of a thousand camels: the fortune or dexterity of his march escapedthe vigilance of Mahomet; but the chief of the Koreish was informed that theholy robbers were placed in ambush to wait his return. He despatched a messen­ger to his brethren of Mecca, and they were roused, by the fear of losing theirmerchandise and their provisions, unless they hastened to his relief with the mi­litary force of the city. The sacred band of Mahomet was formed of three hun­dred and thirteen Moslems, of whom seventy-seven were fugitives, and the restauxiliaries: they mounted by turns a train of seventy camels (the camels of Yath-reb were formidable in war:) but such was the poverty of his first disciples, thatonly two could appear on horseback in the field. (3) In the fertile and famous valeof Beder,(4) three stations from Medina, he was informed by his scouts of the ca­ravan that approached on one side; of the Koreish, one hundred horse, eight hun­dred and fifty foot, who advanced on the other. After a short debate, he sacrificedthe prospect of wealth to the pursuit of glory and revenge; and a slight intrench-ment was formed to cover his troops, and a stream ot fresh water that glidedthrough the valley. " O God," he exclaimed as the numbers of the Koreish de­scended from the hills, " O God, if these are destroyed, by whom wilt thou beworshipped on the earth? Courage, my children, close your ranks; dischargeyour arrows, and the day is your own." At these words he placed himself, withAbubeker, on a throne or pulpit,(5) and instantly demanded the succour of Ga- (1) The whole subject de jure belli Mohammedanorum, is exhausted in a separate dissertation by the learnedReland. (Dissertationes Miscellaneie, torn. iii. Dissert, x. p. 3—53.) (2) The doctrine of absolute predestination, on which few religions can reproach each other, is sternly ex­posed in the Koran, (c. 3. p. 52, 53. c. 4. p. 70, &c. with rbe notes of Sale, and c. 17. p. 413. with those of Ma-racci.) Reland (de Relig. Mohamm. p. 61—64.) and Sale (Prelim. Discourse, p. 103.) represents the opinions ofthe doctors, and our modern travellers the confidence, the fading confidence, of the Turks. (3) Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. ii. p. 9.) allows him seventy or eighty horse; and on two other occasionsprior to the battle of Ohud, he enlists a body of Thirty (p. 10.) and of five hundred (p. 66.) troopers. Yet theMussulmans, in the field of Ohud, had no more than two horses, according to the better sense of Abnlfeda (inVit. Mohamm. p. 31. p. 65.) In the Stony province, the camels were numerous; but the bone appears to havebeen less common than in the Happy or the Desert Arabia. (4) Beder Houneene, twenty miles from Medina, and forty from Mecca, is on the high road of the caravan ofEgypt; and the pilgrims annually commemorate the prophet's victory by illuminations, rockets, &c. Shaw'sTravels, p. 477. (5) The place to which Mahomet retired during the action is styled by Gagnier, (in Abulfeda, c. xxvii. p. 53.Vie de Mahomet, torn. it. p. 30, 33.) Umbraeulunu "tie loge de bw avec une parte. The same Arabic word isrendered by Reiske (Annales de Mosicmici Abulfedte, p. 23.) by Solium Suggestus editor; and the difference isof the utmost moment for the honour both of the interpreter and of the hero. I am sorry to observe the prideand acrimony with which the Reiske chastises his fellow-labourer. Swpe licvt rtit, tit integra: paging; tic­