OCR Output 20 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. twenty-five ships, which were soon followed by another equip­ment, they command them " at their peril to receive theirexiles ;"—For those who had been driven out of Epidamnushad already been at Corcyra, where pointing to the sepulchres,and claiming the rights of consanguinity, they had intreatedthem to undertake their restoration:—" and to send away thegarrison and new inhabitants which they had received fromCorinth." The Epidamnians were quite deaf to thesehaughty commands. And upon this the Corcyreans, with asquadron of forty ships accompanied by the exiles whom theypretended to restore, and an aid of Illyrians, began hostili­ties. Having blocked up the city, they made proclamation," That all Epidamnians who were willing and the strangersmight depart without molestation, or otherwise they shouldbe treated as enemies." But this having no effect, the Cor­cyreans beset the place, which is situated upon an isthmus, onall sides, in regular siege. The Corinthians upon the arrival of messengers fromEpidamnus with an account of the siege, dr&w their forcestogether. They also gave public notice, " That a new co­lony was going to Epidamnus, into which all that wouldenter should have equal and like privileges with their prede­cessors ; that, if any one was unwilling to set out immedi­ately, and yet chose to have the benefit of the colony, hemight deposit fifty Corinthian drachmas, and be excusedhis personal attendance." The number of those who enteredfor immediate transportation, and of these who depositedtheir money, was large. They sent farther to the Mega-reans, requesting a number of ships to enlarge their con­voy, that their passage might not be obstructed by the Cor­cyreans, from whom they received a supply of eight, andfour more from Pale of the Cephallenians. The same re­quest was made to the Epidaurians, who sent five. A singleship joined them from Hermione ; two from Troezene ; tenfrom the Leucadians ; and eight from the Ambraciots. Ofthe Thebanr, and Phliasians they requested money; of the