OCR Output 13G LIVY. Etruria, and march away to besiege Rome ; which de­sign of theirs being reported to the consul Decius, heremoved by long marches from Etruria towards theircity, and sat down in the district of Pupinia, in readi­ness to act according to the intelligence which he mightreceive of the enemy's motions. Nor was the insur­rection of the Umbrians slighted at Rome: their verythreats excited fears among the people, who had expe­rienced, in the calamities suffered from the .Gauls, theinsecurity of the city wherein they resided. Deputieswere therefore despatched to the consul Fabius withdirections that, if he had any respite from the war ofthe Samnites, he should with all haste lead his armyinto Umbria. The consul obeyed the order, and byforced marches proceeded to Mevania, where the forcesof the Umbrians then lay. The unexpected arrival ofthe consul, whom they had believed to be sufficientlyemployed in Samnium, far distant from their country,so thoroughly affrighted the Umbrians, that several ad­vised retiring to their fortified towns; others, the layingaside their arms. However, one district, called^ bythemselves Materina, prevailed on the rest not only toretain their arms, but to come to an immediate engage­ment. They fell on Fabius while he was fortifying hiscamp. When the consul saw them rushing impetu­ously towards his rampart, he called off his men fromthe work, and drew them up in the best manner whichthe nature of the place and the time allowed ; en­couraged them by displaying, in honorable and justterms, the glory which they had acquired, as well inEtruria as in Samnium, and bade them finish this in­significant appendage to the Etrurian war, and takevengeance for the impious expressions in which thesepeople had threatened to attack the city of Rome. Suchwas the alacrity of the soldiers on hearing this that,raising the shout spontaneously, they interrupted thegeneral's discourse, and, without waiting for orders,advanced, with the sound of all the trumpets and cornets,in full speed against the enemy. They made their attacknot as on men, or at least men in arms, but, what must