OCR Output 372 MOSCHA PORTUS. MOHIMARUSA. topographers, and three or four localities have beenproposed. Of these, Seaton and J/embmy, nearIloniton, appear to have the best claims for consi­deration ; bat as the stations next to large townswere often merely establishments for relays of horsesand other purposes connected with posting, theywere the least likely to be constructed on a large orsubstantial scale; and thus we hare often great diffi­culty in detecting even a vestige of them. [C. R. S.]MORIMARUSA. [Oteam-sSkitkntkiosalis.]MORI'MKNE (Mooi/mi^), a district in the north­west of Cappadoria, comprising both banks of theriver Halys, is said to have been fit only for pastureland, to have had scarcely any fruit-trees, and tohave abounded in wild asses. (Strab. xii. pp. 534,537, 539, 540; I'lin. If. N. vi. 3.) The Romansregarded it as a part of Galatia, whence Ptolemy(v. 6) does not mention it among the districts ofCappadocia. [L. S.] MO'RINI, a nation of Belgica. Virgil is the au­thority for the quantity: — "Extremiqne hominum Morini." (Aen. viii. 727.) It has been shown in the article Mknami thaton the north ttie Morini were bounded by the Menapii.On the west the ocean was the boundary, and onthe south the Ambiani and the Atrebates. Theeastern boundary cannot be so easily determined.The element of Morini seems to be the word mor,the sea, which is a common Flemish word still, andalso found in the Latin, the German, and theEnglish languages. Caesar, who generally speaks of the Morini withthe Menapii, has fixed their position in general terms.When he first invaded Britannia ho went into thecountry of the Morini. because the passage fromthere to Britain was the shortest (//. G. iv. 21). Inthe next expedition, n. o. 54, he sailed from PortusItius, having ascertained that the passage from thisport to Britain was the most commodious. PortusItius is in the country of the Morini [iTirs Portus].Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 8) mentions two cities of theMorini, Gesoriacum or Bononia (Boulogne), andTarucnna (Therovemie), east of it, in the interior.If we add Casteilum Morinorum (Cajuet), in theinterior, south of hunkerque, "we see that, besidesthe diocese of Boulogne, the territory of the Morinicomprises the new dioceses of St. Outer and Yjiern,which succeeded to that of Tournai." (D'Amillc.)But if CaMtl is not within the limits of the Morini,their territory will not lie so extensive as D'Anvillcmakes it. [Mesai'U.] Caesars wars with the Morini were more suc­cessful than with the Menapii. A large |«rt of theterritory of the Morini did nut offer such naturalobstacles as the land of the Menapii. The marshesof the Morini would be between Calm and Dun-kerque. The force which the Morini were supposedto be able to send to the Belcic confederation inB. c. 57 was estimated at 2-VKH) men. Thoughmost of the Morini were snbdued by Cae-ar, theyrose again in the time of Augustus, and were putdown ty C. Carinas (Dion Cassius, Ii. 21). WbcnBononia was made a Itoman port, and Taruenna aKomati town, the country of the Morini would t>ecomeHumanised, nnd Roman usages and the itoman lan­guage would prevail. There were Roman roadswhich terminated at Bononia and Castollum. An inscription mentions the Decemviri of theColonia Morinorum, but it is unknown what placeit ia, [G. L.J MO'RIUS. [Boeotia, Vol. I. p. 418. V]MORON (Miour), a town of Lusitania upon tb*Tagus, which Brutus CallaTcns made his h--ad-qnarters in his campaign against the Lnsitaniam.(Strah. iii. p. 152.) Its exact site is unknown. MORONTABARA (to MopoKrdeopa, Arrism,Indie, c 22), a place on the coast of Gedrosia, a: nogreat distance W. of the mouths of the Indus, n«iiK"Tdby Arrian in his account of Nearchus's expeditasBwith the fleet of Alexander the Great. It d<>e» r>*appear to have been satisfactorily identified wrikany modern place. [V.] MOROSGI, a town of the Varduli in HL.jrti.iaTarraconensis, identified by Ckert with St. Srttvtum.which, however, more probably representa Menoacs.(Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; Ukert, ii. 1. p. 446; Fortiger,iii. p. 80.) MORTUUM MARE. [Pai-aestisa.]MORTUUM MARE. [SK.rTt.vrai..jCAiJ« Oc'KANl'S.] MORYLLUS. [MTODoinA.]MOSA in Gallia is placed by the Antonine Itin.between Andomatunnm (Ijangrts) and Tullum(Tovl). It is 18 M. P. from Andomatuimin toMosa, which is supposed to be Mruee, situated at apassage over the Mam, and in the line of an oldRoman road. [G. L] MOSA {Mam), a river of Gallia, which Caesarsupposed to rise in the Vosegns ( Yoigea) within thelimits of the Lingones. (B. G. iv. la) Thispassage of Caesar, in which he speaks of the Moaain the lower part of its course receiving a part of theRhine, called Vahah's ( Waal), is very obscure. Thiamatter is discussed in the article Batati. DioBCassius writes the word in the form Miaat (xlir.42); and Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 3) has the form Mi»<rain the genitive. Caesar (/?. G. vi. 33) says that the Scalds(Schrldr) flows into the Mosa; a mistake that mighteasily be made with such knowledge of the coast ofBelgium and Holland as he possessed. The or Itbranch of the Mosa which Caesar mentions i» tieI Sabis (Sombre), which joins the Moot on the srAbank at Chnrleroi in Belgium. The Moan, called Metue by the French, rises | about 48° N. lat. in the Faucittei, which unite the I Cote dOr and the Votget. The general cursr <A I the Moos is north, but it makes several great bends before it reaches Liege in Belgium, from which iu I course is north as far as Grave, where it turtle to the ! west, and for 80 miles flows nearly parallel to tbe I WaaL The Mao* joins the Waal at (fovrwsa, and, retaining its name, flows past Hotteniim int > tho North Sea. The whole length of the Ifaat is shore 500 miles. [G. U] MOSAEUS (MaVajoj, Ptol. vi. 3. § «). a ciaDstream, placed by Ptolemy between the Kolaeos andthe Tigris. It is probably the same as thai calledby Marcian (p. 17) the MtcyaTet. It «i>, no doot*,one of the streams which together form tbe monthsof the Tigris, and may not impossibly be Die samewhich Pliny names the Ad una (vi. 27,31), andwhich he appears to have considered aa a feeder ofthe Kulaeus. [V.] MOSCHA PORTUS (Mo>xa Ararftr). 1. Aharbour on the S. coast of Arabia, near the extm-eeast of the AimAMiTAE, or more proprriy of Lb*Aacitae, since the next named place is " Syagros rx-trema" (2uaypos &*pa). and tlie ^Aacitae extendedfrom Syagros mons to the sea. (PtoL vi. 7. p li.\.c»mp. p. 154). Mr. Foratcr thinks there is no d.nV­