OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. 107 in consequence of the rejection of the proposal brought in byFlaccus—the first instance which had occurred for a hundredand fifty years of a serious insurrection, not fomented byforeign powers, in Italy against the Roman hegemony. Buton this occasion the fire was successfully extinguished beforeit had caught hold of other allied communities. Not throughthe superiority of the Roman arms, but through the treacheryof a Fregellan Quintus Numitorius Pullus, the praetor LuciusOpimius quickly became master of the revolted city, whichlost its civic privileges and its walls and was converted likeCapua into a village. The colony of Fabrateria wasfounded on a part of its territory in 630; the remainder 124.and the former city itself were distributed among the sur­rounding communities. This rapid and fearful punishmentalarmed the allies, and endless impeachments for high treasonpursued not only the Fregellans, but also the leaders of thepopular party in Rome, who naturally were regarded by thearistocracy as accomplices in this insurrection. MeanwhileGaius Gracchus reappeared in Rome. The aristocracy hadfirst sought to detain the object of their dread in Sardinia byomitting to provide the usual relief, and then, when withoutcaring for that point he returned, had brought him to trial asone of the authors of the Fregellan revolt (629-30). But 125-124.the burgesses acquitted him; and now he too threw downthe gauntlet, became a candidate for the tribuneship of thepeople, and was nominated to that office for the year 631 in 123.an elective assembly attended by unusual numbers. Warwas thus declared. The democratic party, always poor inleaders of ability, had from sheer necessity remained vir­tually at rest for nine years; now the truce was at an end,and this time they were headed by a man, who with morehonesty than Carbo, and with more talent than Flaccus,was in every respect called to take the lead. Gaius Gracchus (601-633) was very different from his 153-121.brother, who was about nine years older. Like the latter, Gainshe had no relish for vulgar pleasures and vulgar pursuits; he Gracchus-was a man of thorough culture and a brave soldier; he hadserved with distinction before Numantia under his brother-in-law, and afterwards in Sardinia. But in talent, in character,and above all in passion he was decidedly superior to Tiberius.The clearness and self-possession, which the young manafterwards displayed amidst the pressure of all the variedlabours requisite for the practical carrying out of his