OCR Output 274 THE DECLINE AND FALL cred and profane letters; but his education, his reason, perhaps his intercoursewith the Jews and Arabs, had inspired the martial peasant with a hatred of images;and it was held to be the dijty of a prince, to impose on his subjects the dictates ofhis own conscience. But in the outside of an unsettled reign, during ten years oftoil and danger, Leo submitted to the meanness of hypocrisy, bowed before theidols, which he despised, and satisfied the Roman pontiff with the annual profes­sions of his orthodoxy and zeal. In the reformation of religion, his first steps weremoderate and cautious; he assembled a great council of senators and bishops, andenacted,, with their consent, that all the images should be removed from the sanc­tuary and altar "to a proper height in the churches, where they might be visibleto the eyes, and inaccessible to the superstition of the people. But it was impossi­ble on either side to check the rapid though adverse impulse of veneration and ab­horrence: in their lofty position, the sacred images still edified their votaries andreproached the tyrant. He was himself provoked by resistance find invective;and his own party accused him of an imperfect discharge of his duty, and urged,for his imitation, the example of the Jewish king, who had broken without scruplethe brazen serpent of the temple. By a second edict, he proscribed the existenceas well as the use of religious pictures; the churches of Constantinople and the pro­vinces were cleansed from idolatry; the images of Christ, the Virgin, and thesaints, were demolished, or a smooth surface of plaster was spread over the wallsof the edifice. The sect of the Iconoclasts was supported by the zeal and despo­tism of six emperors, and the east and west were involved in a noisy conflict of onehundred and twenty years. It was the design of Leo the Isaurian to pronouncethe condemnation of images, as an article of faith, and by the authority of a gene­ral council: but the convocation of such an assembly was reserved for his son Con-stantine;(l) and though it is stigmatized by triumphant bigotry as a meeting of foolsand atheists, their own partial and mutilated acts betray many symptoms of rea­son and piety. The debates and decrees of many provincial synods introduced thesummons of the general council which met in the suburbs of Constantinople andwas composed of a respectable number of three hundred and thirty-eight bishopsef Europe and Anatolia; for the patriarchs of Antioch and Alexandria were theslaves of the caliph, and the Roman pontiff had withdrawn the churches of Italyand the west from the communion of the Greeks. This Byzantine synod assumedthe rank and powers of the seventh general council; yet even this title was a re­cognition of the six preceding assemblies which had laboriously built the structureof the catholic faith. After a serious deliberation of six months, the three hun­dred and thirty-eight bishops pronounced and subscribed a unanimous decree, thatall visible symbols of Christ, except in the eucharist, were either blasphemous orheretical; that image-worship was a corruption of Christianity and a renewal ofpaganism; that all such monuments of idolatry should be broken or erased; andthat those who should refuse to deliver the objects of their private superstition,were guilty of disobedience to the authority of the church and of the emperor. Intheir loud and loyal acclamations, they celebrated the merits of their temporal re­deemer; and to his zeal and justice they intrusted the execution of their spiritualcensures. At Constantinople, as in the former councils, the will of the prince wasthe rule of episcopal faith: but, on this occasion, I am inclined to suspect, that alarge majority of the prelates sacrificed their secret conscience to the temptationsof hope and fear. In the long night of superstition, the Christians had wandered'far away from the simplicity of the gospel, nor was it easy for them to discern theclue, and tread back the mazes of the labyrinth. The worship of images was in­separably blended, at least to a pious fancy, with the cross, the Virgin, the saints,and their relics; the holy ground was involved in a cloud of miracles and visions;and the nerves of the mind, curiosity and scepticism, were benumbed by the ha­bits of obedience and belief. Constantine himself is accused of indulging a royallicense to doubt, to deny, or deride, the mysteries of the catholics,(2) but theywere deeply inscribed in the public and private creed of his bishops; and the bold­est Iconoclast might assault, with a secret horror, the monuments of popular de­ft) Some flowers of rhetoric are Eouvoaoy raprfrouw x*i «d£ov,and the bishops t&i? nxruaQptinv. By Damasceneitis styled axupo; xsei mJshts;. (Opera, torn. i. p. 623.) Spanheim's Apology for the Synod of Constantinople (p.171, &c.) is worked up with truth and ingenuity, from such materials as be could find in the Nicene Acts. (p.1046, &c.) The witty John of Damascus converts ea-irxosrou; into stidcotcu;, makes them xotMoJatAoti;, slavesof their belly, &c. % Opera, torn, i. p. 306. (2) He is accused of proscribiiifr the title of saint; styling the Virgin, mother of Christ; comparing her afterher delivery to an empty purse; of Arianism, Nestorhmism, &c In his defence, Spanheim (c, 4, p. 207.) issomewhat embarrassed between the interest of a protcitant and the duty of an orthodox divine.