OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 299 nians, the only Gallic state that continued faithful totheir cause. This was the force employed in that en­gagement. The battle was begun by the Balearians;who being too powerfully opposed by the legions, thelight-armed troops were hastily drawn off to the wings;which circumstance proved the cause of the Roman ca­valry being quickly overpowered ; for being in numberbut four thousand, they had before been hardly able tomaintain their ground against ten thousand; especiallyas they were fatigued, and the others- mostly fresh;but now they were overwhelmed under a cloud, as itwere, of javelins thrown by the Balearians. Besidesthis, the elephants, advancing in the extremities of thewings, so terrified the horses, as to occasion a generalrout. The fight between the infantry was maintainedby an equality of spirit rather than of strength : for,with respect to the latter, the Carthaginians hadbrought theirs fresh into the battle, invigorated byfood ; the Romans, on the contrary, were enfeebled byfasting and fatigue, and their limbs stiffened and be­numbed with cold. They would, notwithstanding, havemaintained their ground by dint of courage, had theconflict rested solely between them and the infantry.But the Balearians, after the discomfiture of the ca­valry, poured darts on their flanks, and the elephantshad now made their way to the centre of the line ofthe infantry; while Mage, with his Numidians, as soonas the army had passed by their lurking place withoutobserving them, started up at once, and caused dread­ful confusion and terror in the rear. 56. Encompassed by so many perils, the line, not­withstanding, stood for a long time unbroken, even(which was most surprising to all) by the attack of theelephants. The light infantry, stationed for that pur­pose, plying these briskly with iron javelins, madethem turn back ; and then, following them behind,darted their weapons into them under the tails, inwhich part, the'skin being softest, it is easy to woundthem. When they were by these means put into dis­order, and ready to vent their fury on their own party,