OCR Output 30 LlVY. dictator, for the purpose of holding the elections, Lu­cius jEmilius Matnercinus, who named Quintus Publi-lius Philo master of the horse. [A. U. C. 421. B. C.331.] The dictator presiding at the election, TitusVeturius and Spurius Postumius were created consuls.Notwithstanding the war with the Sidicinians remainedunfinished, yet being desirous to prevent, by an act ofgenerosity, the wishes of the commons, they proposedto the senate the sending a colony to Cales; and a de­cree being passed that two thousand five hundred menshould be inrolled for that purpose, they constitutedCaeso Duillius, Titus Quintius, and Marcus Fabius,commissioners for conducting the colony, and distri­buting the lands. 17. The new consuls, receiving from their predeces­sors the command of the army, marched into the ene­my's country, and carried devastation even to the wallsof their capital. There, because it was expected thatthe Sidicinians, who had collected a vast body of forces,would make a vigorous struggle in support of their lasthope, and a report also prevailing that Samnium waspreparing for hostilities, the consuls, by direction ofthe senate, nominated dictator Publius Cornelius Ru-finus, who appointed Marcus Antonius his master ofthe horse. A doubt afterwards arose with respect tothe regularity of their creation, on which they abdi­cated their offices; and a pestilence ensuing, recoursewas had to an interregnum, as if the auspices of everyoffice had been infected by that irregularity. UnderMarcus Valerius Corvus, the fifteenth interrex fromthe commencement of the interregnum, consuls wereat last elected ; Aulus Cornelius a second time, andCneius Domitius. [A. U. C. 422. B. C. 330.] Whilethings were in a state of tranquillity, a report, whichwas spread that the Gauls were in arms, produced thesame effect which a war with that people usually did,a resolution to create a dictator: Marcus PapiriusCrafsus was nominated to that office, and Publius Va­lerius Publicola to that of master of the horse; andwhile they were busy in levying troops, with greater