OCR Output 78 [Book IV THE REFORM MOVEMENT great conflict between labour and capital, it is necessary to givehere some indication of the nature and extent of the systemof slavery. We have not now to do with the old, in somemeasure innocent, rural slavery, under which the farmereither tilled the field along with his slave or, if he' possessedmore land than he could manage, placed the slave—either assteward or as a sort of lessee obliged to render up a portionof the produce—over a detached farm (i. 199). Such relationsno doubt existed at all times—around Comum, for instance,they were still the rule in the time of the Empire—but asexceptional features in privileged districts and on humanelymanaged estates. What we now refer to is the systemof slavery on a great scale, which in the Roman state, asformerly in the Carthaginian, grew out of the ascendancy ofcapital. While the captives taken in war and the hereditarytransmission of slavery sufliced to keep up the stock of slavesduring the earlier period, this system of slavery was, justlike that of America, based on the methodically prosecutedhunting of man; for, owing to the manner in which slaveswere used with little regard to their life or propagation, theslave population was constantly on the wane, and even thewars which were always furnishing new multitudes to theslave market were not sufficient to cover the deficit. Nocountry where this species of game could be hunted re­mained exempt from visitation; even in Italy it was a thingby no means unheard of, that the poor free man was placedby his employer among the slaves. But the Negroland ofthat period was western Asia,* where the Cretan and Cili-cian corsairs, the real professional slave-hunters and slave-dealers, robbed the coasts of Syria and the Greek islands;and where, emulating their feats, the Roman revenue-farmersinstituted human hunts in the client states and incor­porated those whom they captured among their slaves.This was done to such an extent, that about 650 the kingof Bithynia declared himself unable to furnish the requiredcontingent, because all the people capable of labour hadbeen dragged off from his kingdom by the revenue-farmers.At the great slave market in Delos, where the slave-dealersof Asia Minor disposed of their wares to Italian speculators,on one day as many as 10,000 slaves are said to have been Slaveryand its con­sequences. 100. * It was asserted even then, that the human race in that quarter was pre­eminently fitted for slavery by its especial power of endurance. Plautus(Trin. 542; commends the Syrians: genus quod patientissimum est hominum.