OCR Output O F R O M E. over the markets, fhould inftirute a college of mer- BOOKchants, and join the pontiff in the performance of. -w-_rthe ceremonies ufual on fuch occafions. The people Y.R. 159.gave the honour of the dedication to Marcus Laeto- *•c.rius, a centurion of the firft rank, fhewing plainlythat they acted thus, not merely out of refpedr. tothe perfon, on whom they conferred an office ofhigher dignity than became his ftation, but with de-fign to affront the coniuls. This threw the patrici­ans, and one of the conluls particularly, into a rage;but the commons had now affumed a greater degreeof courage, and began to prolecute theirmeafuresina very different method, from that in which they hadfet out: having given up all hopes of protection,from the confuls and the fenate, whenever they fawa debtor led to the court, they flew together from allquarters; fo that neither could the fentence of theconful be heard amidft their noife and clamours, norwhen it was pronounced did any one obey it; allwas managed by force; and the whole dread anddanger, with refpefr. to their freedom, was transferredfrom the debtors to the creditors, who, ftandingfmgle, were abufed by the multitude, under the"veryeye of the conful. To add to the perplexity of thefenate, the alarm was fpread of an attack being in­tended by the Sabines; and, orders being iffued forlevying troops, not a man gave in his name; mean­while Appius in a rage inveighed bitterly againft thecriminal lenity of his colleague, that, by his popularfilence, he was betraying the commonwealth; andthat, befides refufing to enforce the laws with refpeclto creditors, he neglected alfo to execute the decreeof the fenate, for levying troops. He declared that"the intereft of the commonwealth was not yet en.."tirely deferted, nor the confular office yet ftripped"of its authority; that he himfelf would ftand forth"fingly, and vindicate his own dignity, and that of"the fenate." Though furrounded by the multi­tude which aflembled daily, and were of a temper). 4 tOO