OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 327 dered ; but Cleopatra, as she had formerly been desirous to giveher what satisfaction she could, and commiserating Alexandra'smisfortunes, made the case her own, and would not let Antonybe quiet, but excited him to punish the child's murder; for thatit was an unworthy thingthat Herod, who had been by him madeking of a kingdom that no way belonged to him, should be guiltyof such horrid crimes against those that were of the royal bloodin reality. Antony was persuaded by these arguments; andwhen he came to Laodicea, he sent and commanded Herod tocome and make his defence, as to what he had done to Aristo-bulus, for that such a treacherous design was not well done, if hehad any hand in it. Herod was now in fear, both of the ac­cusation, and of Cleopatra's ill-will to him, which was such, thatshe was ever endeavouring to make Antony hate him. Hetherefore determined to obey his summons, for he had no pos­sible way to avoid it: so he left his uncle, Joseph, procuratorfor his government, and for the public affairs, and gave him aprivate charge, that if Antony should kill him he also shouldkill Mariamne immediately; for that he had a tender affectionfor this his wife, and was afraid of the injury that should be of­fered him, if, after his death, she, for her beauty, should be en­gaged to some other man: but his intimation was nothing butthis at the bottom, that Antony had fallen in love with herwhen he had formerly heard somewhat of her beauty: Sowhen Herod had given Joseph this charge, and had indeed nosure hopes of escaping with his life^he went away to Antony. 6. But as Joseph was administering the public affairs of thekingdom, and for that reason was very frequently with Ma­riamne, both because his business required it, and because ofthe respects he ought to pay to the queen, he frequently let him­self into discourses about Herod's kindness, and great affectiontowards her; and when the women, especially Alexandra,used to turn his discourses into feminine raillery, Joseph wasso over desirous to demonstrate the king's inclinations, that heproceeded so far as to mention the charge he had received, andthence drew his demonstration, that Herod was not able tolive without her; and that if he should come to any ill end, hecould not endure a separation from her, even after he was dead.Thus spoke Joseph. But the women, as was natural, did nottake this to be an instance of Herod's strong affection for them,but of hfe severe usage of them, that they could not escape de-structionAor a tyrannical death, even when he was dead him­self: an Jwhis saying [of Joseph's] was a foundation for thewomen'sMvere suspicions about him afterwards. 7. At^pis time a report went about the city Jerusalem,among Herod's enemies, that Antony had tortured Herod, and