OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 97 Thebes in Phthiotis, who, when their own was takenby the Macedonian, had fled for protection to the./Etolians, and had obtained from them a settlement inthis place, which had been laid waste and deserted inthe former war with the same Philip. After recover­ing Thronium in the manner related, he continued bisroute; and, haying taken Tritonos and Drymae, incon­siderable towns of Doris, he came thence to Elatia,where he had ordered the ambassadors of Ptolemyand the Rhodians to wait for him. While they weredeliberating there on the method of putting an end tothe jEtolian war, (for the ambassadors had been pre­sent at the late assembly of the Romans and JStoliansat Heraclea,) news was brought that Machanidasintended to attack the people of Elis while theywere busied in preparations for solemnising the Olym­pic games. Judging it incumbent on him to preventsuch an attempt, he dismissed the ambassadors with afavorable answer, that ' he had neither given cause forthe war, nor would give any obstruction to a peace,provided it could be procured on just and honorableterms:' then, proceeding through Boeotia by quickmarches, he came down to Megara, and from thenceto Corinth; and, receiving there supplies of provision,repaired to Phlius and Pheneus. When he had ad­vanced as far as Heraea, intelligence was brought himthat Machanidas, terrified at the account of his ap­proach, had retreated to Lacedaemon; on which hewithdrew to yEgium, where the Achaeans were assem­bled in council, expecting at the same time to meetthere a Carthaginian fleet which he had sent for, inorder that he might be able to undertake some enter­prise by sea. But the Carthaginians had left thatplace a few days before, and were gone to the Oxeanislands, and from thence, (on hearing that the Romansand Attalns had left Oreum,) to the harbors of theAcarnanians; for they apprehended that an attackwas intended against themselves, and that they mightbe overpowered while within the straits of Rhios (sothe entrance of the Corinthian bay is called). LIV. VOL. V. G