OCR Output 36 LIVY. session of the roads both on the right and left; add tothis that their commander and principal officers, in en­deavoring to make their escape, filled up the gate ofthe camp, while the disorderly rout of the frightenedelephants were as terrible to them as were the enemy.There were slain, therefore, not less than eight thou­sand men. 19. Hasdrubal had, before the battle, hastily sentoff* his treasure; and now, forwarding the elephants,he collected the flying troops, directing his coursealong the river Tagus towards the Pyrenees. Scipiotook possession of the Carthaginian camp; and havingbestowed on the soldiers all the booty, except the per­sons of free condition, he found, on taking an accountof the prisoners, ten thousand foot and two thousandhorse. Of these he sent home all the Spaniards with­out ransom, the Africans he ordered the qnestor tosell. On this the multitude of Spaniards who stoodaround, both those who had formerly surrendered,and those taken the day before, unanimously salutedhim by the title of king. But Scipio, ordering thecrier to command silence, told them, that 'to him thehighest title was that of general, which his soldiershad conferred on him: that the title of king, in otherplaces highly respected, was at Rome deemed odious.They might, indeed, within their own breasts, judge ofhim as possessing the spirit of a king, if they deemedthat the most honorable perfection in a human mind,but they must refrain from the application of the name.'Even these barbarians were sensibly affected by thegreatness of his mind, that could look down contemp­tuously on a title which, from the rest of mankind, at­tracts wonder and admiration. He then distributedpresents among the petty princes and chieftains of theSpaniards, desiring Indibilis to choose, out of thegreat number of horses taken, three hundred, such ashe liked. While the questor, in pursuance of the ge­neral's order, was selling off the Africans, he observedamong them a boy of extraordinary beauty; and, hear­ing that he was of royal blood, he sent him to Scipio.