OCR Output 446 FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS [B. II. not at random, or at every one's pleasure, or being under in­violable rules in lying with our wives, in magnificent furni­ture, and again in the observation of our times of rest; whilethose that can use their swords in war, and can put theirenemies to flight when they attack them, cannot bear to sub­mit to such laws about their way of living : whereas our beingaccustomed willingly to submit to laws in these instances,renders us fit to show our fortitude upon other occasions also.34. Yet do the Lysimachi and the Molones, and some otherwriters (unskilful sophists as they are,) and the deceivers ofyoung men, reproach us as the vilest of all mankind. Now Ihave no mind to make an inquiry into the laws of other na­tions ; for the custom of our country is to keep our own laws,but not to bring accusations against the laws of others. And,indeed, our legislator hath expressly forbidden us to laugh atand revile those that are esteemed gods by other people,1 onaccount of the very name of God ascribed to them. Butsince our antagonists think to run us down upon the compa­rison of their religion and ours, it is not possible to keepsilence here, especially while what I shall say to confute thesemen will not be now first said, but hath been already said bymany, and these of the highest reputation also: for who isthere among those that have been admired among the Greeksfor wisdom, who hath not greatly blamed both the most fa­mous poets, and most celebrated legislators for spreadingsuch notions originally among the body of the people con­cerning the gods ? such as these, that they may be allowed tobe as numerous as they have a mind to have them ; that theyare begotten one by another, and that after all the kinds ofgeneration you can imagine. They also distinguish them intheir places and ways of living, as they would distinguishseveral sorts of animals: as some to be under the earth; assome to be in the sea; and the ancientest of them all to bebound in hell: and for those to whom they have allottedheaven, they have set over them one, who in title is theirfather, but in his actions a tyrant ;md a lord ; whence it cameto pass that his wife, and brother, and daughter (which 1 Sec Antiq. B. iv. ch. viii. sect 10, mid its note.