OCR Output CHAP. LI. 405 along the sea-shore, till their banners were joined underthe walls of the Phoenician cities: Tripoli and Tyre wereEnd of Strayed; and a fleet of fifty transports, whichthe Sy- entered without distrust the captive harbours,brought a seasonable supply of arms and provi­sions to the camp of the Saracens. Their labours wereterminated by the unexpected surrender of Caesarea: theRoman prince had embarked in the night ;u and the de­fenceless citizens solicited their pardon with an offeringof two hundred thousand pieces of gold. The remainderof the province, Ramlah, Ptolemais or Achre, Sichemor Neapolis, Gaza, Ascalon, Berytus, Sidon, Gabala,Laodicea, Apamea, Hierapolis, no longer presumed todispute the will of the conqueror; and Syria bowedunder the sceptre of the caliphs seven hundred yearsafter Pompey had despoiled the last of the Macedoniankings. * The con- "^6 sieges and battles of six campaigns hadqueron of consumed many thousands of the Moslems.A.D. They died with the reputation and cheerfulnessess—639. Qf martvrs . and the simplicity of their faith maybe expressed in the words of an Arabian youth, when heembraced, for the last time, his sister and mother. Itis not (said he) the delicacies of Syria, or the fading de­lights of this world, that has prompted me to devote mylife in the cause of religion. But I seek the favour ofGod and his apostle; and I have heard, from one of thecompanions of the prophet, that the spirits of the martyrswill be lodged in the crops of green birds, who shall tastethe fruits, and drink of the rivers of paradise. Fare­ * In tbe loose and obscure chronology of the times, lam guided by an authenticrecord (in the book of ceremonies of Constantino Porphyrogenitus) which certifiesthat June 4, A.D. 638, the emperor crowned his younger son Heraclins in thepresence of his eldest Constantine, and in the palace of Constantinople; that Ja­nuary 1, A. D. 639. the royal procession visited the great church, and on thefourthof the same month the hippodrome. « Sirty-flve years before Christ, Syria Pontusque monumenta sunt Cn. Pompeiivinutij, (Veil. Patercul. 2. 38.) rather of his fortune and power: he adjudgedSyria to be a Roman province, and the last of the Seleucides were incapable ofdrawing a sword in the defence of their patrimony. (See the original text* collectedby Usher, Annal. p. 420.)