OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 17 all sorts—and, while the soldier was not available for fight­ing, he had at least to work in the trenches and to march.During the first summer the general avoided any conflictwith the Numantines ; he contented himself with destroyingthe stores in the surrounding country, and with chastisingthe Vaccaeans who sold corn to the Numantines, and com­pelling them to acknowledge the supremacy of Rome. Itwas only towards winter that Scipio drew together his armyround Numantia. Besides the Numidian contingent ofhorsemen, infantry, and twelve elephants led by the princeJugurtha, and the numerous Spanish contingents, therewere four legions, in all a force of 60,000 men investing acity whose citizens capable of arms were not more at mostthan 8000. Nevertheless the besieged frequently offeredbattle; but Scipio, perceiving clearly that the disorganiza­tion of many years was not to be repaired all at once,refused to accept it, and, when conflicts did occur in con­nection with the sallies of the besieged, the cowardly flightof \he legionaries, checked with difficulty by the appearanceof the general in person, justified such tactics only tooforcibly. Never did a general treat his soldiers more con­temptuously that Scipio treated the Numantine army; andhe showed his opinion of it not only by bitter speeches, butabove all by the course of action which he adopted. Forthe first time the Romans waged war by means of mattock'and spade, where it depended on themselves alone whetherthey should use the sword. Around the whole circuit ofthe city, which was nearly three miles, there was constructeda double line of circumvallation of twice that extent, providedwith walls, towers, and ditches; and the river Douro, by whichat first some supplies had reached the besieged through theefforts of bold boatmen and divers, was at length closed.Thus in all probability the town, whieh they did notventure to assault, could not fail to be reduced throughfamine; the more so, as it had not been possible for thecitizens to lay in provisions during the last summer. TheNumantines soon suffered from want of everything. One oftheir boldest men, Retogenes, cut his way with a few com­panions through the enemy's lines, and his touching entreatythat kinsmen should not be allowed to perish without helpproduced a great effect in Lutia at least, one of the towns ofthe Arevacae. But before the citizens of Lutia had cometo a decision, Scipio, having received information from the VOl. III. o