OCR Output 210 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. of retaliation. In the siege of Topirus," whose obstinatedefence had enraged the Sclavonians, they massacredfifteen thousand males; but they spared the women andchildren; the most valuable captives were always re­served for labour or ransom; the servitude was not ri­gorous, and the terms of their deliverance were speedyand moderate. But the subject, or the historian of Jus­tinian, exhaled his just indignation in the language ofcomplaint and reproach; and Procopius has confidentlyaffirmed, that in a reign of thirty-two years, each annualinroad of the barbarians consumed two hundred thousandof the inhabitants of the Roman empire. The entirepopulation of Turkish Europe, which nearly correspondswith the provinces of Justinian, would perhaps be inca­pable of supplying six millions of persons, the result ofthis incredible estimate.1monn'rciwof *n tne ™idst of these obscure calamities, Europe felt«heTurks in the shock of a revolution, which first revealed to thea. d. si.?, world the name and nation of the Tukks. Like Ro­mulus, the founder of that martial people was suckledby a she-wolf, who afterward made him the father of a-numerous progeny; and the representation of that ani­mal in the banners of the Turks preserved the memory,or rather suggested the idea, of a fable, which was in­vented, without any mutual intercourse, by the shepherdsof Latium and those of Scythia. At the equal distanceof two thousand miles from the Caspian, the Icy, theChinese, and the Bengal seas, a ridge of mountains isconspicuous, the centre, and perhaps the summit, ofAsia; which, in the language of different nations, hasbeen styled Imaus, and Caf,z and Altai, and the Golden * Topiins was situate near Philippi in Thrace, or Macedonia, opposite to tbeisle of Thasos, twelve clays journey from Constantinople. (Cellarius, torn. 1. p.676. 840.) > According to tile malevolent testimony of the Anecdotes, (c. 18.) these in­roads had reduced tbe provinces, south of the Dannbe, to the state of a Scythianwilderness. • • *■ From Caf to Caf; which a more rational geography would interpret from Imaus,perhaps in mount Atlas. According to the religious philosophy of the Mahometans,the basis of mount Cat' is an emerald, whoso reflection produces the azure of the sky.