OCR Output Chap. XL] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 403 An approximate measure of the condition of Roman Thefinmicesfinance at this period is furnished, in the absence of definite aniJ publicstatements, first of all by the public buildings. In the bulldmgs.earlier portion of this epoch these were prosecuted on thegreatest scale, and the construction of roads in particularhad at no time been so energetically pursued. In Italy'the great southern highway of probably earlier origin, whichas a prolongation of the Appian road ran from Rome byway of Capua, Beneventum, and Venusia to the ports ofTarentum and Brundisium, had attached to it a branch-road from Capua to the Sicilian straits, a work of PubliusPopillius Rufus, consul in 622. On the east coast, where 132.hitherto only the section from Fanum to Ariminum hadbeen constructed as part of the Flaminian highway (ii. 83)the coast road was prolonged southward as far as Brundi­sium, northward by way of Hatria on the Po as far asAquileia, and the portion at least from Ariminum to Hatriawas formed by the Popillius just mentioned in the sameyear. The two great Etruscan highways—the coast orAurelian road from Rome to Pisa and Luna, which wasin course of formation in 631, and the Cassian road leading 123.by way of Sutrium and Clusium to Arretium and Florentia,which seems not to have been constructed before 583— X71.were probably first recognized at this time as Roman publichighways. About Rome itself new projects were not re­quired; but the Mulvian bridge (Ponte Molle), by whichthe Flaminian road crossed the Tiber not far from Rome,was in 645 reconstructed of stone. Lastly in Northern 109.Italy, which hitherto had possessed no other artificial roadthan the Flaminio-iEmilian terminating at Placentia, thegreat Postumian road was constructed in 606, which led 143.from Genua by way of Dertona, where probably a colony wasfounded at the same time, Placentia, where it joined theFlaminio-^Emilian road, Cremona and Verona to Aquileia,and thus connected the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic seas; towhich was added the communication established in 645 by 109.Marcus iEmilius Scaurus between Luna and Genua, whichconnected the Postumian road directly with Rome. GaiusGracchus exerted himself in another way for the improve­ment of the Italian roads. He secured the due repair ofthe great rural roads by assigning, on occasion of his distri­bution of lands, pieces of ground alongside of the roads, towhich was attached the obligation of keeping them in repair