OCR Output SICILIA. 985 SICILIA. Btory, now Capo di Sta Croc* (Snpaiytasmrripiir, Sink. vi. p. 267), within which was'aifhoxiak Port (ai>»V Ei^mioj, Scyl. p.. evidently the harbour of Augusta, one of thent utoral harbours in the island. Between thisd Syracuse ii the remarkable peninsular promon-7 of Thatocs (Magniri), while immediately S.Syracuse occurs the remarkable landlocked hayliri tbe Great Harbour of that city, aud the rockytiiaad of Plemmykiitm which bounds it on theFrom this point to Cape Pachynns no ancientnet lure been preserved to us of the headlandsatrboura. From Cape Pachynns to the site of4t the rout is low but rocky. Along this line■I be placed the port of Ulysses (Portos Odysseae)atoned by Cicero, and the promontory of UlyssesPtolemy, both apparently in the immediate neigh-iriood of Cape Pachynus [Pachynus.] Thea» promontory (BoiWpa &*pa) of Ptolemy, whichplaces further W., is wholly unknown, as is also! port of C&ucana of the same author (Kawtdmuw, PtoL iii. 4. § 7). The remainder of thenut of Sicily from Gela to Lilybaeum presentst&e whole a very uniform character; it has fewsj natural ports, and no remarkable headlands,u Uiunded for the most part by hills of cluy orI iinxstone, generally sloping gradually to the, hit sometimes forming cliffs of no great eleva-i. The celebrated promontory of Lilybaeum■ U*t rocky point, and its famous port, thoughei, i* of small extent. X. of Lilybaeum wasjtoiontory of Aeoithallus, with the adjacentu lands, ou one of which the city Motya was)!: while the more considerable islands of the■utgs lay a few miles further to the W., andprauontory of Dkepajtum adjoining the city of■ane name formed the NW. point of Sicily. It-nirkable that no ancient name is preserved tofar the deep gulf of Castellamare which occurstat coast between Trapani and Palermo, thoughi one of tbe most remarkable features of the N.at of Sicily; nor are the two striking headlandst bound the Bag of Palermo itself known to ustheir ancient names. The bold and insulatedMonte Sta Rosalia is, however, the ancientere. The northern coast of Sicily is bold andled, formed by offshoots and ridges of the northernB of mountains descending abruptly to the sea;nt k was always a rugged and difficult line of-i.V-ation. But none of the rocky headlandst interrupt it are mentioned to us by their ancienttea, till we come to that of Mylae adjoining the > f tbe same name (Mlaao), and the Piia-bia> Pbomoxtort (Ptol. iii. 4. § 2), ap-Kily the Capo di Jiatocolmo within a few milesif» I'elorus. 'rorn the triangular form of Sicily and the confi-una of the mountain chains which traverse it, itraiest that it could not have any rivers of import->- Most of them indeed are little more thani mountain torrents, swelling with great rapidityr tioieot storms or during the winter rains, butriy, if not wholly, dry during the Bummer months. > n.i»t important rivers of the island are: 1. Thet vkthus(Simtto or Ciarretta'), which rises in thehern chain of mountains (the Mons Ncbrodes),ftswa to tbe S. and SK. round the foot of Aetna, : into tbe sea about 6 miles S. of Catania. It re­el several tributaries, of which the Uittaino is cer-Jy the ancient Chby'sas, that flowed near theU Aawrus, while the Adiianls of Stephanus can be no other than the northern or main branch of theSymnethus itself. The Cyamosorus (Kvandovpoi)of Polybius, which appears to have been in theneighbourhood of Centuripa, must probably he thebranch now called Fiume Salso. which joins theSirneto just below Centorbi 2. The AcKSINiis orAsines (f. Conrara), which rises very near theSymaethus, but flows along the northern foot ofAetna, and falls into the sea just below Taurome-nium. 3. The Himera (F. Sal*o~), the most consi­derable of two rivers which bore the sanio name,rising in the Monte Madonia (Mons Nebrodes)only about 15 miles from the N. coast, and flowingdue S.; so that it traverses nearly the whole breadthof Sicily, and falls into the sea at Alicata (Phintias).4. The Halycub (Platani), so long the boundarybetween the Carthaginian and Greek territories intbe island, is also a considerable stream; it rises notfar from the Himera, but flows to the S\V\, andenters the sea between Agrigentum and Sclinus,close to the site of Heraclea Minoa. 5. The Hyp-sas (Belici), falling into the sea on the S. coast, afew miles E. of Selinus; and 6, the Anatls (Anapa),which flows under the walls of Syracuse and fallsinto the great harbour of that city. It is unlikemost of the rivers of Sicily, being a full clear stream,supplied from subterranean sources. The samocharacter belongs still more strongly to its tributarythe Cyank, which has a considerable volume ofwater, though its whole course does not exceed twomiles in length. The minor rivers of Sicily which are mentionedeither in history or by the geographers are nume­rous, but in many cases are very difficult to identify.Beginning at Cape Pachynus and proceeding alongthe coast westward, we find: I, the Motychanus(MoTi)xa"o», Ptol. iii. 4. § 7), evidently so calledfrom its flowing near Motyca, and therefore pro­bably the stream now called Fiume di Scicli ; 2,the Hirminius of Pliny, probably the Fiume diRagusa, very near the preceding; 3, the Hii-paris;and 4, the Oanis, two small streams which flowedunder the walls of Camarina, now called the F. diCamarana and Frascolari; 5, the Gkla or Gelah,which gave name to the city of Gela, and musttherefore be the Fiume di Terranova; 6, the Acra-gas, a small stream flowing under the walls of Agri-gentum, to which it gave name, and receiving atributary called the Hyfsas (Drago), which mustnot be confounded with the more important river ofthe same name already mentioned; 7, the Camicuh,probably the Fiume delle Canne, about 10 miles W.of Girgenti; 8, the Selinus, flowing by the city ofthat name, now the Madiuni; 9, the Mazara orMazarus, flowing by the town of the same name,and still called Fiume di Mauara. Besides thesePtolemy mentions the Isburus and Sosias or Sossius,two names otherwise wholly unknown, and whichcannot be placed with any approach to certainty.Equally uncertain is the more noted river AcflATM,which is placed by Pliny in the s.ime part of Sicilywith the Mazara and Hypsas; but there is greatconfusion in his enumeration as well as that ofPtolemy. It is generally identified with the iJirillo,but this is situated in quite a different part of Sicily.The Acithius of Ptolemy, which he places betweenLilybaeum and Selinus, may be the Fiume di Mar-tola. Along the N. coast, proceeding from Lilybaeumto Cape Pclorus, we meet with a number of smallstreams, ha\ing for the must put a short torrent