OCR Output C. IX.] TITUS RESUMES THE SIEGE. 203 CHAPTER IX. LEAVING OFF THE SIEGE FOR AWHILE, SET HIMSELF AGAINTO PROSECUTE THE SAME, BUT SOON SENT JOSEPHUS TO DIS­COURSE WITH HIS OWN COUNTRYMEN ABOUT PEACE. § 1. A resolution was now taken by Titus to relax thesiege for a little while, and to afford the seditious an intervalfor consideration, and to see whether the demolishing of theirsecond wall would not make them a little more compliant, orwhether they were not somewhat afraid of a famine, becausethe spoils they had gotten by rapine would not be sufficientfor them long ; so he made use of this relaxation in order tocompass his own designs. Accordingly, as the usual appointedtime when he must distribute subsistence-money to the soldierswas now come, he gave orders that the commanders shouldput the army into battle array, in the face of the enemy, andthen gave every one of the soldiers their pay. So the soldiers,according to custom, opened the cases wherein their armsbefore lay covered, and marched with their breast-plates on,as did the horsemen lead their horses in their fine trappings.Then did the places that were before the city shine very splen­didly for a great way; nor was there any thing ever so grate­ful to Titus's own men, or so terrible to the enemy, as thatsight. For the whole old wall and the north side of the templewere full of spectators ; and one might see the houses full ofsuch as looked at them: nor was there any part of the citywhich was not covered over with their multitude; nay, a verygreat consternation seized upon the hardiest of the Jews them­selves, when they saw all the army in the same place, togetherwith the fineness of their arms and the good order of theirmen. And I cannot but think that the seditious would havechanged their minds at that sight, unless the crimes they hadcommitted against the people had been so horrid that theydespaired of forgiveness from the Romans; but as they be­lieved death with torments must be their punishment, if they