OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 36$ brought over from Cyme about fifty heavy-armed whowere' most firmly attached to their cause, and hired o-thers from the continent, which increased their numberto about three hundred,— AnaxarchuSj the Theban, irtrespect of consanguinity, being chosen their leader* —assaulted first Methymne j and, being repulsed in theattempt by the Athenian garrison which came up fromMitylene, and then driven quite off by a battle foughtin the field, they retired across the mountain, and makeEressus revolt. Thrasyllus, therefore, steering withhis fleet against Eressus, projected an assault. ButThrasybulus, with five ships from Samos, arrived therebefore him, upon information received of the re-passageof the exiles; yet, coming too late before Eressus toprevent a revolt, he lay at anchor before it. Two otherships, also, bound homewards from the Hellespont,came in, and the Methymnean. All the ships in thefleet amounted now to sixty-seven, from which theydraughted an army for the operations of land, as fullybent, if possible, to take Eressus by a bold assault, with,engines and all the arts of attack. In the mean time, Mindarus and the Peloponnesiarlfleet at Chios, after two whole days employment in ta­king in provisions, and receiving from the Chians everyman on-board three Chian *teJseracofts, on the the thirdday with urgent dispatch launch out from Chios intothe wide sea, that they might not be deserted by thefleet before Eressus and, leaving Lesbos on the left,stood over to the continent. There, putting into theharbour of Crateræi on the coast of Phocea, and takingtheir noon repast, they proceeded along the coastof Cyme, and supped at Arginusæ of the continent,over-against Mitylene. From thence, at dead of night,they went forwards along the shore > and, being arrived * This, according to Spanheim, was a month's pay, fince be explains it by forty-three Chian draebmat. But the words will not bear such a construction: A ttjserdcojlwas, it is most probable, a coin peculiar to the Chians ; but of what Talue is notknown, nor is it of any great importance. Vol. II. B b at