OCR Output 490 [BOOK XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them in the war against him, as they haddone ten thousand other things that tendedto affront and reproach him. However, thisbarbarity seems to have been without anjrnecessity; and in consequence of it he borethe name of a *Thracian among the Jews.The soldiers that had fought_ against him,being about eight thousand in number, nowran away by night; while Alexander beingnow freed from any farther disturbancefrom them, reigned the rest of his time inthe utmost tranquillity. When Demetrius was departed out of Ju-dea, he went to Berea, and besieged his bro­ther Philip: having with him ten thousandfootmen, and a thousand horsemen. How­ever, Strato, the tyrant of Berea, the confede­rate of Philip, called in Zizon, the ruler ofthe Arabian tribes, and Mithridates Sinax,the ruler of the Parthians: who coming witha great number of forces, and besieging De­metrius in his encampment, into which theyhad driven him with their arrows; com­pelled those that were with him by thirst todeliver up themselves. So they took a greatmany spoils out of the country, and Deme­trius himself; whom they sent to Mithridates,who was then king of Parthia. But as tothose whom they took captives of the.peopleof Antioch, they restored them to the Antio-chians, without any reward. Now Mithri­dates, the king of Parthia, had Demetrius ingreat honour; till Demetrius ended his lifeby sickness. So Philip, presently after thebattle was over, came to Antioch, and tookit, and reigned over Syria. CHAP. XV. OF THE EXPEDITIONS OF ANTIOCHUS, CALLED DIONYSIUS;AND OF ARETAS, AGAINST JUDEA.''—AND OF THE CON­QUESTS AND DEATH OF ALEXANDER. AFTER this, Antiochus, who was calledtDionysius, and was Philip's brother,aspired to the dominion, and came to Damas­cus, and got the supreme power into his hands. But as he was making war against the Ara­bians, his brother Philip heard of it, and cameto Damascus; where Milesius, who had beenleft governor of the citadel, and the Damas­cenes themselves delivered up the city to him.Yet because Philip was become ungrateful,and had bestowed upon him nothing of that inhopes whereof he had received him into thecity; but had a mind to have it believed thatit was rather delivered up out of fear, than bythe kindness of Milesius; and because he hadnot rewarded him as he ought to have done,he became suspected by him; and so he wasobliged to leave Damascus again. For Mile­sius caught him marching out into the JHip-Bodrome, and shut him up in it; and kept•amascus for Antiochus Eucerus; who hear­ing how Philip's affairs stood, came back outof Arabia. He also made an expedition.against Judea, with eight thousand armedfootmen; and eight hundred horsemen. SoAlexander, out of fear of his coming, dug adeep ditch, beginning at Chabarzaba, whichis now called Antipatris, to the sea of Joppa,on which part only his army could be broughtagainst him. He also raised a wall, anderected wooden towers, with intermediateredoubts for a hundred and fifty furlongs inlength; and there expected the coming ofAntiochus. But he soon burnt them all; andmade his army pass by that way into Arabia.The Arabian king Aretas at first retreated;but afterward appeared suddenly with tenthousand horsemen. Antiochus gave themthe meeting, and fought desperately; butwhen he had gained the victory, and wasbringing some auxiliaries to that part of hisarmy that was in distress, he was slain.When Antiochus was fallen, his army fled tothe village Cana: where the greatest part ofthem perished by famine. After him ||Aretas reigned over Coelesyria-.being called to the government by those thatheld Damascus; by reason of the hatredthey bore to Ptolemy Menneus. He alsomade thence an expedition against Judea,and defeated Alexander, near a place called * This name, Thracida, which the Jews gave Alexan­der, must, by the coherence, denote "as barbarous as aThracian," or somewhat like it. But what it properlysignifies is not known. t Spanheim takes notice that this Antiochus Dionysius,the brother of Philip and of Demetrius Eucerus, and of two others, was the fifth son of Antiochus Grypus: and that heis styled on the coins, Antiochus Epiphanes Dionysius. J The place for horse-races. II This Aretas was the first king of the Arabians, whotook Damascus, and reigned there. Which name becameafterwards common to such Arabian kings, both at Petra i