OCR Output 56 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. the mountains. To the Vejentes, Tullus opposes hisRomans, and to the Fidenates, the Albans. Mettus,as destitute of courage, as of honour, durst neither main­tain his post, nor pass over at once to the enemy, butwithdrew imperceptibly up the hills; till fmding he wassufficiently remote, that he drew up on the eminence;and to spin out the time, whilst he was still in suspense,he extended his line. His purp'ose was, whatever wayfortune should flow, to follow the tide. The Romans, who were posted next them, were struckwith amazement at first, when they saw their flanks leftexposed, by the desertion of their friends; and they in­stantly dispatch a trooper, at full gallop, to inform theking, that the Albans were retiring. Tullus, amidst thisconsternation vows twelve Salii and temples to Pallorand Pavor. Then rebuking the trooper, with a voiceloud enough to be heard by the enemy, he orders himback to his post, telling him, that he had nothing to fear,for it was by his orders the Albans had made a circuit,that they might fall on the unguarded rear of the Fide-nates. He also orders the cavalry to carry their spearshigh; by which expedient the greatest part of the Ro­man foot saw nothing of the motions of the Alban?.They who observed them, thinking only of what theyhad heard from ihc king, fought with the greater ar­dour. The panic was now transferred to the enemy;for they had heard distinctly what the king said, andmost of the Fidenates, as being a Roman colony, under­stood Latin. Wherefore, that their retreat from thetown might not be cut off by the sudden descent of theAlbans, they made the best of their way. Tullus pur­sues: and that wing where the Fidenates were postedbeing thus routed, he falls with redoubled fury on theVejentes, who were already disheartened by the flight oftheir allies. Nor could they stand so vigorous a charge:The river, however, which was in their rear, obligedthem to keep in a body. At last when they could standit no longer, many of them quitting their arms, threwthemselves headlong into the river; others, whilst theywere deliberating on the banks whether to fight or fly,were cut to pieces.—This perhaps was tha hardest worl$ihe Romans ever had.