OCR Output 374 THE PELOPONNESlAK WAR. B.VHI. About the same space of time, Alcibiades also* at thehead of his squadron of thirteeri sail, returned fromCaunus and Phasclis into the harbour of SamoS; report­ing that " by his management he had diverted the"junction of the Phœnician fleet with the Peloponne-"sians, and made Tissaphernes a faster friend than*' ever to the Athenians." After enlarging his squa­dron by the addition of nine more just manned, he le­vied large contributions upon the Halicarnasseans,-ahdfortified Cos. After these exploits, and putting thegovernment of Cos into proper hands, he returned a-gain, about autumn, to Samos.* From Aspendus also Tissaphernes rode back post­haste into Ionia, so soon as advised of the departure ofthe Peloponnesian fleet from Miletus for the Helles­pont. Buti as the Peloponnesians were now in the Helles­pont, the Antandrians, (who are of Æolic descent,) * As the English reader is here to take his leave of Alcibiades-, he may have the curiosity to know what became of him after. — Every thing succeeded so well, underhim and his active collegues, that the Lacedæmonians, having received several de­feats ooth by land and sea, and lost two hundred ships, were again necessitated to suefor peace. After such great services, Alcibiad-s returned triumphant to Athens,The whole city flocked down to the Piræus to meet hirfc. All strove to get a fightof Alcibiades; they caressed him, crowned him, cursed the authors of his exile, andhurried him away to an assembly of the people. There he harangued them fora tinttjthen flopped and ihed teats in abundance; then harangued them again. In fliott,they undid all they had ever done against him ; and Alcibiades for a time was all inall at Athens. Yet, in subsf auent commands, he happened not to be successful j 1crime which his countrymen very seldom forgave. He became a second time an ailefrom Athens. His great abilities made him a continual terror, both to foreign anddomestic enemies.' Yet now he persevered to serve his country, by caballing in theirfavour, and advising them on critical occasions. Yec all in vain j Lysander was soonmaster of the Piræus and of Athens. Alcibiades retired into Phrygia, and was hand­somely supported by the bounty of his friend Pharnabazus; who however waswrought upon at last, by the joint solicitations of his em mies and the plea of itsnecessity for the service of the king, to undertake hit destruction. The agents ofPharnabazus durst not attempt him in an open manner, but set fire to his house bynight. By-throwing in clothes to damp the flames he got out safe. The Barbarianssoon spied him, ihot him to death with arrows and darts, then cut off his bead, andcarried it to Pharnabazus. I shall only add, that he was birt forty years old when hewas thus destroyed, haying