OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 41 could no way get free from this burning oil; they could onlyleap and roll about in their pains, as they fell down from thebridges they had laid. And as they thus were beaten back,and retired to their own party, who still pressed them for­ward, they were easily wounded by those that were behindthem. 29. However, in this ill success of the Romans their cou­rage did not fail them, nor did the Jews want prudence tooppose them ; for the Romans, although they saw their ownmen thrown down, and in a miserable condition, yet werethey vehemently bent against those that poured the oil uponthem, while every one reproached the man before him as acoward, and one that hindered him from exerting himself;and while the Jews made use of another stratagem to preventtheir ascent, and poured boiling senegreek upon the boardsin order to make them slip and fall down: by which meansneither could those that were coming up nor those that weregoing down stand on their feet, but some of them fell back­ward upon the machines on which they ascended, and weretrodden upon; many of them fell down on the bank they hadraised, and when they were fallen upon it were slain by theJews: for when the Romans could not keep their feet, theJews being freed from fighting hand to hand, had leisure tothrow their darts at them. So the general called off thoseEoldiers in the evening that had suffered so sorely, of whomthe number of the slain was not a few, while that of thewounded was still greater; but of the people of Jotapata nomore than six men were killed, although more than threehundred were carried off wounded. This fight happened onthe twentieth day of the month Desius [Sivan.] 30. Hereupon Vespasian comforted his army on occasionof what had happened; and as he found them angry indeed, butrather wanting somewhat to do than any farther exhortations,he gave orders to raise the banks still higher, and to erectthree towers, each fifty feet high, and that they should coverthem with plates of iron on every side, that they might beboth firm by their weight, and not easily liable to be set onfire. These towers he set upon the banks, and placed upon 4*