OCR Output 1.34 LIVY. off to the cavalry, posted on the extremities of the line,and, exhorting them to join in putting in for a share ofthe honor, charged the enemy on the flanks. The Ro­man legions, on observing the confusion of the Sam­nites, by being thus assailed on both sides, renewedthe shout, and rushing forcibly on them, they began tofly. And now the plains were quickly filled with heapsof bodies and splendid armor. At first their camp re­ceived the dismayed Samnites; but they did not longretain even the possession of that: before night it wastaken, plundered, and burnt. The dictator triumphed,in pursuance of a decree of the senate ; and the mostsplendid spectacle by far, of any in his procession, wasthe captured arms : so magnificent were they deemed,that the shields, adorned with gold, were distributedamong the owners of the silver shops, to serve as em­bellishments to the forum. Hence, it is said, arose thecustom of the forum being decorated by the ediles,when the grand processions are made, on occasion ofthe great games. The Romans, indeed, converted theseextraordinary arms to the honor of the gods : but theCampanians, out of pride, and in hatred of the foe,gave them as ornaments to their gladiators, who usedto be exhibited as a show at their feasts, and whomthey distinguished by the name of Samnites. Duringthis year the consul Fabius fought with the remnantsof the Etrurians at Perusia, which city also had vio­lated the truce, and gained an easy and decisive vic­tory. After this he marched up to the walls of thetown, and would have taken it, had not deputies comeout and capitulated. Having placed a garrison at Pe­rusia, and sent on before him to the Roman senate theembassies of Etruria, who solicited friendship, the con­sul rode into the city in triumph, for successes moreimportant than those of the dictator. Besides, a greatshare of the honor of reducing the Samnites was attri­buted to the lieutenant-generals, Publius Decius andMarcus Valerius: whom, at the next election, thepeople, with universal consent declared the one con­sul, the other pretor.