OCR Output NOTES ON THE EIGHTH CHAPTER. (Hist. August, p. 165.); but the tumulus or moundof earth which forms d the sepulchre, still subsisted inthe time of Julian. See A'mmian. Marcellin. xxiii. 5. [51] Aurelius Victor. Eutrop. ix. 2. Orosius,vii. 20. Ammianus Marcellinus, xxiii. 5. Zosimus,1. i. p. 19. Philip, who was a native of Bosira, wasabout forty years of age. [52] Can the epithet of Aristocracy be applied,with any propriety, to the government of Algiers?Every military government floats between the ex­tremes of absolute monarchy and wild democracy. [53] The military republic os the Mimalokei inEgypt, would have afforded M. deMontesquieu (seeConsiderations fur la Grandeur et la Decadence desRoirains, c. if.) a juster and more noble parallel. [54] The Augustan History (p. 16:, i6f.) carr-not, in this instance, be reconciled with itself or withprobability. How could Philip condemn his pre­decessor, and yet consecrate his memory? Howcould he order his public execution, and yet, in*his letters to the senate, exculpate himself from theguilt of his death? Philip, though an ambitioususurper, was by. no means a mad tyrant. Somechronological difficulties have likewise been dis­ covered by the nice eyes of Tillemont and Muratori,in this supposed association of Philip to the empire. [55] The account of the last supposed celebra­tion, though in an enlightened period of history,was so very doubtful and obscure, that the alterna­tive seems not doubtful. When the popisn jubilees,the copy of the secular games, were invented byBoniface VIII, the crafty pope pretended, that heonly revived an ancient institution. See M. leChais Lettres fur les JubilCs. [56] Either of a hundred, ora hundred and tenyears. Varro and Livy adopted the former opinion,but the infallible authority of the Sybil consecratedthe latter (Censorinus de Die Natal, c. 17.). Theemperors Claudius and Philip, however, did nottreat the oracle with implicit respect. [57] The idea of the secular games is best under­stood from the p^m of Horace, and the descriptionof Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 167, &c. [58] The received calculation of Varro, assignsto the foundation of Rome, an æra that correspondswith the 754th year before Christ. But so little isthe chronology of Rome to be depended on, in themore early ages, that Sir Isaac Newton has broughtthe fame even* as low as the year 6*7: NOTES ON THE E [1] A N ancient chionologist quoted by Velleiusil Paterculus (1. i c. 6.) observes, that theAssyrians, the Medes, the Persians, and the Mace­donians, reigned over Asia one thousand ninehundred and ninety-five years, from the accession ofNinus to the defeat of Antiocbus by the Romans.As the latter of these great events happened 189years before Christ, the former may be placed2184 years before the fame a:ra. The Astronomicalobservations, found at Babylon by Alexander, wentfifty, years higher. [2] In the five hundred and thirty-eighth year ofthe æra of Seleucus. See Agathias, 1. ii. p. 67.This great event (such is the carelessness of the Ori­entals) is placed by Eutychius, as high as the tenthyear of Commodus, and by Moses of Chorene, aslow as the reign of Philip. Ammianus Marcellinushas so servilely copied (xxiii. 6.) hit ancient ma- I.GHTH CHAPTER. terials, which are indeed very good, that he de­scribes the family of the Arsacides, as still seatedon the Persian throne in the middle of the fourthcentury. [3] The tanner's name wtjs Babec; the soldier's,Sassan : from the former Artaxerxes obtained the sur­name of Babegan ; from the latter all his descend­ants have been styled Sajsa»iitt. [4] D'Herbelot. Bibliotheque Orientate. Jrdjbir. [0 Dion Cassius, 1. Ixxx. Herodian, 1. vi. p. 207.Abulpharagius Dynast, p.- 80. [6] See Moses Chorenensis, 1. ii. c. 65—71. [ ] Hyde and Prideaux, working up the Per­sian legend's and their own conjectures into a veryagreeable story, represent Zoroaster ai a con­temporary of Dariot Hystafpes, But it is'sufficient to­