OCR Output an. 1492.] 141 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. cause of his extraordinary virtue he went toGod. Now Moses lived in all one hundred andtwenty years,* a third part of which time,abating one month, he was the people's ruler.And he diedf in the last month of the year,which is called by the Macedonians Dystrus;but by us Adar; on the first day of the month.He was one that exceeded all men in under­standing, and made the best use of what thatunderstanding suggested to him. He had avery pleasing way of speaking, and addressingthe multitude; and, as to his other qualifica­tions, he had such a full command over hispassions, as if he hardly had any such in hissoul, and only knew them by their names; asrather perceiving them in other men, than in * Deut. xxxiv. 7. t Nothing can be plainer from the text, than that Mo­ses did die, and was really buried; nay, Josephus tells us,that the Scripture affirms, that he died lest people shouldthink, because of the excellency of his person, that hewas still alive, and with God. And yet, notwithstandingthis, some of the Jewish doctors do positively affirm, thathe was translated into heaven, where he stands and minis­ters before God: and of those who admit of his death, himself. He was also such a general of anarmy as is seldom seen, as well as such a pro­phet as was never known,J and this to such adegree, that whatsoever he pronounced, youwould think you heard the voice of God him­self. So the people mourned for him thirtydays. Nor did ever any grief so deeply affect theHebrews as did this upon the death of Mo­ses. Nor were those that had experiencedhis conduct the only persons that desiredhim; but those also that perused the laws heleft behind him had a strong desire after him,and by them gathered the extraordinary vir­tue he was master of. And this shall sufficefor the declaration of the manner of the deathof Moses. and that his soul and body were really separated, the ma­jor part will not allow that he died a common death; fortheir notion is, that his soul departed with a kiss, becausehe is said to die, al pi, at the mouth, (as it is literally in theHebrew, i. e. according to the word) of God; but if therebe any sense in the expression, it must be, that he partedwith his soul with great cheerfulness and serenity of mindWitsius's Miscel. lacra. B.{ Deut. xxxiv. 10. LIS