OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 97 But the meanest of the populace were affected with shame and Acts as a • i- • 1 1 • r • gladiator. indignation when they beheld their sovereign enter the lists as agladiator, and glory in a profession, which the laws and manners ofthe Romans had branded with the justest note of infamy ,s. He chosethe habit and arms of the Secutor, whose combat with the Retiariusformed one of the most lively scenes in the bloody sports of theamphitheatre. The Secutor was armed with an helmet, sword, andbuckler; his naked antagonist had only a large net and a trident;with the one he endeavoured to entangle, with the other to dis­patch, his enemy. If he missed the first throw, he was obliged tofly from the pursuit of the Secutor, till he had prepared his net for asecond cast '7. The emperor fought in this character seven hundredand thirty-five several times. These glorious achievements werecarefully recorded in the public acts of the empire; and that hemight omit no circumstance of infamy, he received from the com­mon fund of gladiators a stipend so exorbitant, that it became a newand most ignominious tax upon the Roman people j8. It may beeasily supposed, that in these engagements the master of the worldwas always successful: in the amphitheatre his victories were notoften sanguinary; but when he exercised his skill in the school ofgladiators, or his own palace, his wretched antagonists were fre­quently honoured with a mortal wound from the hand as Coramo-dus, and obliged to seal their flattery with their blood ". -He now His infamydisdained the appellation of Hercules. The name of Paulus, a cele- !al.!Xirava*brated Secutor, was the only one which delighted his ear. It wasinscribed on his colossal statues, and repeated in the redoubled accla­mations 40 of the mournful and applauding senate *'. ClaudiusPompeianus, the virtuous husband of Lucilla, was the only senatorwho asserted the honour of his rank. As a father, he permitted hissons to consult their safety by attending the amphitheatre. As aRoman, he declared, that his own life was in the emperor's hands,but that he would never behold the son of Marcus prostituting hisVol. I. O person