OCR Output 320 LUCILIUSBASSUS. [b. VII. those that met them, in which conflicts they were many ofthem slain, as they therein slew many of the Romans. Butstill it was the opportunities that presented themselves whichchiefly gained both sides their victories; these were gained bythe Jews, when they fell upon the Romans as they were offtheir guard; but by the Romans, when upon the other's salliesagainst their banks they foresaw their coming, and were upontheir guard when they received them. But the conclusion ofthis siege did not depend upon these bickerings; but a certainsurprising accident, relating to what was done in this siege,forced the Jews to surrender the citadel. There was a certainyoung man among the besieged, of great boldness, and veryactive of his hand; his name was EUazar: he greatly sig足nalized himself in those sallies, and encouraged the Jews togo out in great numbers, in order to hinder the raising of thebanks, and did the Romans a vast deal of mischief when theycame to fighting. He so managed matters, that those whosallied out made their attacks easily, and returned back with足out danger, and this by still bringing up the rear himself.Now it happened, that on a certain time, when the fight wasover, and both sides were parted and retired home, he in wayof contempt of the enemy, and thinking that none of themwould begin the fight again at that time, stayed without thegates, and talked with those that were upon the wall, and hismind was wholly intent upon what they said. Now a certainperson belonging to the Roman camp, whose name was Rufus,by birth an Egyptian, ran upon him suddenly, when nobodyexpected such a thing, and carried him off, with his armoritself; while, in the mean time, those that saw it from thewall were under such an amazement, that Rufus preventedtheir assistance, and carried Eleazar to the Roman camp.So the general of the Romans ordered that he should botaken up naked, set before the city to be seen, and sorelywhipped before their eyes. Upon this sad accident that be足fell the young man, the Jews were terribly confounded, andthe city, with one voice, sorely lamented him, and the mourn足ing proved greater than could well be supposed upon thecalamity of a single person. When Bassus perceived that,