OCR Output 242 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the same city, the one of them was rich, andthe other poor; the rich man had a greatmany flocks of cattle, of sheep, and of kine;but the poor man had but one ewe lamb.This he brought up with his children, andlet her eat her food with them, and he hadthe same natural affection for her which anyone might have for a daughter. Now uponthe coming of a stranger to the rich man, hewould not vouchsafe to kill any of his ownflocks, and thence regale his friend; but hesent for the poor man's lamb, and took heraway from him, and made her ready forfood, and thence feasted the stranger." Thisdiscourse troubled the king exceedingly; andhe denounced to Nathan, that this was awicked man, who could dare to do such athing, and it was but just that he should re­store the lamb* fourfold, and be punishedwith death for it also. Upon this Nathan im­mediately said, that he was himself the manwho ought to suffer those punishments; andthat by his own sentence: for that it was hewho had perpetrated this great and horridcrime. He also revealed to him the anger ofGod, who had made him king over the armyof the Hebrews, and lord of all the nations,and those many and great nations, roundabout him; who had formerly delivered himout of the hands of Saul, and had given himsuch wives as he had justly and legally mar­ried, and now this God was despised by him,and affronted by his impiety; when he hadmarried, and now had another man's wife;and by exposing her husband to the enemy,had really slain him; that God would inflictpunishments upon him on account of thoseinstances of wickedness; that his own wivesshould be violated by one of his sons; andthat he should be treacherously supplanted bythe same son, and that although he had per- petrated his wickedness secretly, yet shouldthat punishment which he was to undergo, beinflicted publicly upon him, and also that thechild which was born to him of Bathshebashould soon die. When the king was troubledat these messages, and sufficiently confound­ed, and said with tears and sorrow that he hadsinned: (for he was without controversy apious man, and guilty of no sin at all in hiswhole life, excepting those in the matter ofUriah,) God had compassion on him, andwas reconciled to him, and promised that hewould preserve him both nis life and hiskingdom. For he said, that seeing he re­pented of the things he had done, he wasno longer displeased with him. So Nathan,when he had delivered this prophecy to theking, returned home. However God sent a dangerous distemperupon the child that was born to David, of thewife of Uriah. At which the king was trou­bled, and did not take any food for sevendays;t although his servants almost forcedhim to take it; but he clothed himself in ablack garment, and fell down, and lay uponthe ground, in sackcloth: intreating God forthe recovery of the child, for he vehementlyloved the child's mother. But when, on theseventh day, the child was dead, the king'sservants durst not tell him of it; as supposingthat when he knew it, he would still less ad­mit of food, and other care of himself, byreason of his grief at the death of his son?since when the child was only sick, he sogreatly afflicted himself, and grieved for him.But when the king perceived that his servantswere in disorder, and seemed to be affectedas those are who are very desirous to concealsomething, he understood that the child wasdead; and when he had called one of his ser­vants to him, and discovered that it was so, he even at this day it is a custom in Arabia, (which is con­tiguous to Judea) to have one of the finest lambs in theflock brought up in the house, and fed with the children."And there came a traveller to the rich man;" this de­notes David's straggling appetite, which he suffered towander from his own home, and to covet another man'swife: and of this appetite the Jewish doctors have this ob­servation, that 'in the beginning it is but a traveller, butin time it becomes a guest, and in conclusion is the masterof the house.' "And he spared to take of his own flockand his own herds," wherewith he might have satisfiedhis appetite, "but took the poor man's lamb, and dressedit for the wayfaring man that was come to him." Mostcommentators here take notice, that Nathan did not go so far in the parable, as to say any thing of the rich man'skilling the poor man. This certainly would have madethe resemblance more complete, but it is therefore omit­ted, that David might not so readily apprehend Nathan'smeaning, and so be induced unawares to pronounce asentence of condemnation upon himself; whereupon theprophet had a fair opportunity to shew him, that if therich man, who took away the poor man's lamb, deserveddeath according to his own judgment, how much moredid he deserve it, who had not only taken another man'swife, but caused him to be slain likewise by the enemiesof Israel! Patrick's Commentary. B. * Exod. xxii. 1. t See the note on VI. 14. %