OCR Output CHAP. L. 303 the command of armies, and the government of king­doms. Three years were silently employed in the con­version of fourteen proselytes, the first fruits of his mis­sion; but in the fourth year he assumed the propheticoffice, and resolving to impart to his family the light ofdivine truth, he prepared a banquet, a lamb, as it is said,and a bowl of milk, for the entertainment of forty guestsof the race of Hashem. Friends and kinsmen (said Ma­homet to the assembly), I offer you, and I alone can offer,the most precious of gifts, the treasures of this world andof the world to come. God has commanded me to callyou to his service. Who among you will support myburden? Who among you will be my companion and myvizir f" No answer was returned, till the silence ofastonishment, and doubt, and contempt, was at lengthbroken by the impatient courage of Ali, a youth, in thefourteenth year of his age. O prophet, I am the man;whosoever rises against thee, I will dash out his teeth,tear out his eyes, break his legs, rip up his belly. O pro­phet, I will be thy vizir over them. Mahomet acceptedhis offer with transport, and Abu Taleb was ironicallyexhorted to respect the superior dignity of his son. Ina more serious tone, the father of Ali advised his nephewto relinquish his impracticable design. Spare your re­monstrances (replied the intrepid fanatic to his-uncle andbenefactor), if they should place the sun on my right hand,and the moon on my left, they should not divert me frommy course. He persevered ten years in the exercise ofhis mission; and the religion which has overspread theeast and the west, advanced with a slow and painful pro­gress within the walls of Mecca. Yet Mahomet enjoyedthe satisfaction of beholding the increase of his infantcongregation of Unitarians, who revered him as a pro­phet, and to whom he seasonably dispensed the spiritualnourishment of the Koran. The number of proselytes * l>:n Hs portitor, bajuha, ontu/ereru ; end this plebeian name was transferredl.y JITI apt metaphor to the pillars of the state. (Gagnier, Not. ad Abalfed. p. 19.)I endeavour to preserve the Arabian idiom, as far as I can feel it myself, in aLatin or French translation.