OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 17 their former miseries, but had such plenty, that two seahs ofbarley were bought for a shekel, and a seah of fine fkur for ashekel, according to the prophecy of Elisha. Now a seah isequal to an Italian modius and a half. The captain of the thirdband was the only man that received no benefit by this plenty;for as he was appointed by the king to oversee the gate, that hemight prevent the too great a crowd of the multitude, that theymight not endanger one another and perish, by treading on oneanother in the press, he suffered himself in that very way, anddied in that very manner, as Elisha had foretold such his death,when he alone of them all disbelieved what he said concerningthat plenty of provisions which they should soon have. 6. Hereupon, when Benhadad, the king of Syria, had escapedto Damascus, and understood that it was God himself that castall his army into this fear and disorder, and that it did not arisefrom the invasion of enemies, he was mightily cast down at hishaving God so greatly for his enemy, and fell into a distemper.Now it happened that Elisha the prophet, at that time, wasgone out of his own country to Damascus, of which Benhadadwas informed; he sent Hazael, the most faithful of all his ser­vants to meet him, and to carry him presents, and bade him in­quire of him about his distemper, and whether he should escapethe danger that it threatened. So Hazael came to Elisha withforty camels, that carried the best and most precious fruits thatthe country of Damascus afforded, as well as those which theking's palace supplied. He saluted him kindly, and said, That"he was sent to him by king Benhadad, and brought presents"with him, in order to inquire concerning his distemper, whe-"ther he should recover from it or not?" Whereupon theprophet bid him tell the king no melancholy news, but still hesaid he would die. So, the king's servant was troubled to hearit; and Elisha wept also, and his tears ran down plenteously athis foresight of what miseries his people would undergo afterthe death of Benhadad. And when Hazael asked, what wasthe occasion of this confusion he was in? he said, That " he"wept out of his commiseration for the multitude of the Israel-"ites, and what terrible miseries they will suffer by thee; for"thou wilt slay the strongest of them, and will burn their"strongest cities, and will destroy their children, and dash them"against the stones, and will rip up their women with child."And when' Hazael said, "How can it be that I should have"power enough to do such things? the prophet replied, "That"God had informed him that he should be king of Syria." Sowhen Ha?ael was come to Benhadad, he told him good newsconcerning his distemper; * but on the next day he spread a Since Elijah did not live to anoint Hazaei king of Syria himself, as hsnpowored to do, 1 Kings xix. 15. it was most probably now done, iu bis