OCR Output CHAP. LI. 381 Battle of About four years after the triumphs of the Per- 1*15*633 s^an war' tne repose of Heraclius and the empireJuly is. was again disturbed by a new enemy, the powerof whose religion was more strongly felt than it wasclearly understood by the Christians of the east. In hispalace of Constantinople or Antioch, he was awakenedby the invasion of Syria, the loss of Bosra, and the dan­ger of Damascus. An army of seventy thousand vete­rans, or new levies, was assembled at Hems or Emesa,under the command of his general Werdan;' and thesetroops, consisting chiefly of cavalry, might be indiffer­ently styled either Syrians, or Greeks, or Romans: Syrians,from the place of their birth or warfare; Greeks, fromthe religion and language of their sovereign; and Ro­mans, from the proud appellation which was still pro­faned by the successors of Constantine. On the plainof Aiznadin as Werdan rode on a white mule decoratedwith gold chains, and surrounded with ensigns and stan­dards he was surprised by the near approach of a fierceand naked warrior, who had undertaken to view the stateof the enemy. The adventurous valour of Derar was in­spired, and has perhaps been adorned, by the enthusiasmof his age and country. The hatred of the Christians,the love of spoil, and the contempt of danger, were theruling passion of the audacious Saracen; and the pros­pect of instant death could never shake his religious con­fidence, or ruffle the calmness of his resolution, or evensuspend the frank and martial pleasantry of his humour.In the most hopeless enterprises, he was bold, and pru­dent, and fortunate: after innumerable hazards, afterbeing thrice a prisoner in the hands of the infidels, hestill survived to relate the achievements, and to enjoythe rewards, of the Syrian conquest. On this occasion, 'The name of Werdan is unknown to Theophanes, and, though it might belongto an Armenian chief, has very little of a Greek aspect or sound. If the Byzantinehistorians have mangled the oriental names, the Arabs, in this instance, likewisehave taken ample revenge on their enemies. In transposing the Greek characterfrom right to left, might they not produce, from the familiar appellation of Andrew,•omething like the anagram Wtrdan 1