OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. tering praise, and the source of more exquisite delight.Her features were delicate and regular; her complexion,though somewhat pale, was tinged with a natural colour;every sensation was instantly expressed by the vivacity ofher eyes; her easy motions displayed the graces of asmall but elegant figure; and either love or adulationmight proclaim, that painting and poetry were incapableof delineating the matchless excellence of her form.But this form was degraded by the facility with which itwas exposed to the public eye, and prostituted to licen­tious desire. Her venal charms were abandoned to apromiscuous crowd of citizens and strangers, of everyrank, and of every profession; the fortunate lover whohad been promised a night of enjoyment, was oftendriven from her bed by a stronger or more wealthy fa­vourite; and when she passed through the streets, herpresence was avoided by all who wished to escape eitherthe scandal or the temptation. The satirical historianhas not blushed2 to describe the naked scenes whichTheodora was not ashamed to exhibit in the theatre.1After exhausting the arts of sensual pleasure,6 she mostungratefully murmured against the parsimony of nature;°but her murmurs, her pleasures, and her arts, must beveiled in the obscurity of a learned language. Afterreigning for some time, the delight and contempt of thecapital, she condescended to accompany Ecebolus, a na- z A fragment of the Anecdotes (e. 9.) somewhat too naked, was surpressed byAlemannus, though extant in the Vatican MS. nor has the defect been supplied in theParis or Venice editions. La Mothe le Vayer (tom. 8. p. 155.) gave the first hintof this carious and genuine passage (Jortin's Remarks, vol. 4. p. 366.) which hehad received from Rome, and it has been since published in the Menagiana, (tom. 3.1». 254—259.) with a Latin version. a After the mention of a narrow girdle (as none conld appear starknaked in thetheatre), Procopius thus proceeds.—AvawCTrroxwa rt v/ryttajpu uittw 6iEeito. 0>ite«$e rivc; .... xpi9a; aur»i viriqQii ra>v atim&v tpgtirrov a; 5s oi ot E? touto iretpeo~HEvito~- fxvfot miy%avov toi? a-rofxaa-iv ei8a$s xara fxtav aveXojuEvoi tcr9iov. 1 have heard that alearned prelato, now deceased, was fond of quoting this passage in conversation. b Theodora surpassed the Crispa of Ansonius, (Epigram 71.) who imitated thecapitalis luxus of the females of Nola. See Quintilian Institut. 8. 6. and Torrentiusad Morat. Sermon. lib.l. sat. 2.5. 101. At a memorable supper, thirty slaves wait­ed round the table; ten young men feasted with Theodora. Her charity was universal.Kt lassata viris, necdum satiata, recessit. c h8e xaK rpiiwv rpuTTnfxcmuv tpyafyf/.tv'i mxuXu rr. <pu?u XurqcgcvfxivtI on 3i fxiI Kmrirrat/; avm tvfvrifw n \uv ua-i rfuTra>v, oitxs SVvarnoj Kai exiivjj ipya£eo~dai. She wishedfor a fourth altar, on which she might pour lihations to the god of lore,