OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 187 than guarded against any danger to himself or thepublic. ' But if they chose,' he said, ' to give him anassistant and associate in command, how could he over­look Publius Decius the consul, with whom he wasperfectly acquainted, as a colleague, on so many occa­sions ? There was no man living whom he would ra­ther wish to be joined in commission with him : withPublius Decius he should have forces sufficient, andnever too many enemies. If, however, his colleaguepreferred any other employment, let them then givehim Lucius Volumnius as an assistant.' The disposalof every particular was left intirely to Fabius by thepeople and the senate, and even by his colleague ;while Decius, having declared that he was ready to goeither to Etruria or Samnium, such general congratu­lation and satisfaction took place, that all men antici­pated victory, and felt as if a triumph, not a war, hadbeen decreed to the consuls. I find in some writersthat Fabius and Decius, immediately on their enteringinto office, set out together for Etruria; and no men­tion is made of the casting of lots, or of the disputeswhich I have related. Others, not satisfied with re­lating those disputes, have added charges of miscon­duct, laid by Appius before the people against Fabius,when absent; and a stubborn opposition, maintainedby the pretor against the consul, when present; andalso another contention between the colleagues, Deciusinsisting that each consul should attend to the care ofhis own separate province. Certainty, however, be­gins to appear from the time when both consuls set outfor the campaign. Now before these arrived in Etru­ria the Senonian Gauls came in a vast body to Clu-sium, to attack the Roman legion encamped there.Scipio, who commanded in that post, wishing to re­medy the deficiency of his numbers by an advantagein the ground, led his men up a hill, which stood be­tween the camp and the city: but having, in his haste,neglected to examine the place, when he came nearthe summit, he found it already,possessed by the ene­my, who had ascended on the" other side. The legion