OCR Output 362 ROMAN EMPIRE. Arabic and Persian literature,™ our interpreters have se­lected the imperfect sketches of a more recent age." Theart and genius of history have ever been unknown tothe Asiatics;" they are ignorant of the laws of criticism;and our monkish chronicles of the same period may becompared to their most popular works, which are neververified by the spirit of philosophy and freedom. Theoriental library of a Frenchman11 would instruct themost learned mufti of the east; and perhaps the Arabsmight not find in a single historian, so clear and com­prehensive a narrative of their own exploits, as that whichwill be deduced in the ensuing sheets. I. In the first year of the first caliph, his lieu- Invasion of Penis, tenant Caled, the sword of God, and the scourge 'of the infidels, advanced to the banks of the Euphrates, and reduced the cities of Anbar and Him. Westward of the ruins of Babylon a tribe of sedentary • Besides the lists of authors framed by Prideaux, (Life of Mahomet, p. 179—189.) Ockley (at the end of his second volume), and Petit de la Croix, (Hist, deGengiscan, p. 525—550.) we find in the Bibliotheque Orientale Tarikh, a cata­logue of two 0r three hundred histories or chronicles of the east, of which not morethan three or four are older than Tabari. A lively sketch of oriental literature isgiren by Reiske; (in his Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalifs librum memorialem adcalcem Abulfeda: Tabulie Syria, Ljpsis, 1766.) but his project and the Frenchversion of Petit de la Croix (Hist, de Timur Bee, torn. 1. preface, p. 45.) havefallen to the ground. n The particular historians and geographers will be occasionally introduced.The four following titles representthe annals, which have guided me in this generalnarrative.—1. AnnaUs Eutychii, Patriarchs Alexandrine, ab Edwardo Pocockio, Oxtm.1656, tiro vols. in quarto; a pompous edition of an indifferent author, translatedby Pocock, to gratify the prcshyterian prejudice of his friend Selden. 2. HifloriaSaracenica Oecn-fii Elmacini, opera ft audio Thonuc Erpenii, in quarto, Jjugd. Bata-vorum, 1625. He is said to have hastily translated a corrupt MS. and bis versionis often deficient in style and sense. 3. Hittaria compendiata Dynaittarum a Gre-gario Abulpharagio, interprtte Edwardo Poaocldo, in quarto, Oxen. 1663 ; more usefulfor the literary than the civil history of the east. 4. Abulfedf Annates Idotlemid adAnn. ltf.;i:.'i .toil, a Jo. Joe. Eeiskc, in quarto, Lipsitf, 1754; the best of our Chroni­cles, both for the original and version; yet how far below the name of Abnlfeda!We know that he wrote at Hamah, in the fourteenth century. The three formerwere Christians of the tenth, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries; the two first, na­tives of Egypt ; a Melchite patriarch, and a Jacobite scribe. "M. de Guignes (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. pref. zix. xx.) has characterized,with truth and knowledge, the two sorts of Arabian historians, the dry annalist,and the tumid and flowery orator. p Bibliotheque Orientale, par M. d'Herbelot, in folio, Paris, 1697. For thecharacter of the respectable author, consult his friend Thevenot. (Voyages daLevant, part 1. chap, 50.) His work is an agreeable miscellany, which mustgratify every taste ; but I never can digest the alphabetical order, and I find himmore satisfactory in the Persian than the Arabic history. The recent supplementfrom the papers of MM. Visdelou and Gallond (in folio, La Hayc, 1779) is of adifferent case, a medley of tales, proverbs, and Chinese antiquities.