OCR Output as. 1748.] 57 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to have such a strange notion of my kindnessto you, and of God's providence, as impu­dently to do thus to your benefactor, who insuch an hospitable manner had entertainedyou?" Hereupon they gave up themselvesto be punished, in order to save Benjamin;and called to mind what wicked enterprisethey had been guilty of against Joseph. Theyalso pronounced him more happy than them­selves, if he were dead, in being freed fromthe miseries of this life; and if he were alive,that he enjoyed the pleasure of seeing God'svengeance upon them. They said farther,that they were the plague of their father;since they should now add to his former grieffor Joseph, this other affliction for Benjamin.Reubel also was very severe upon this occa­sion. But Joseph dismissed them; for hesaid, they had been guilty of no offence, andthat he would content himself with the lad'spunishment; for he said it was not proper tolet him go free, for the sake of those who hadnot offended; nor was it just to punish themtogether with him, who had been guilty ofstealing. When he promised to give themleave to go away in safety, they were undergreat consternation, and were able to saynothing on this sad occasion; but Judas, whohad persuaded their father to send the ladfrom him, being otherwise also a very boldand active man, determined to hazard him­self for the preservation of his brother. ** It is true," said he, " O governor, that wehave been very wicked with regard to thee,and on that account deserve punishment;even all of us may justly be punished, althoughthe theft were not committed by all, but onlyby one of us, and he the youngest also. Butyet, there remains some hope for us, whootherwise must be under despair on his ac­count, and this from thy goodness, whichpromises us a deliverance out of our presentdanger. And now, I beg thou wilt not look atus, or at that crime we have been guilty of,but at thy own excellent nature; and takeadvice of thine own virtue, instead of thatwrath which those that otherwise are of a lowcharacter indulge, as they do their strength:and that not only on great but also on verytrifling occasions. Overcome, sir, that pas­sion; and be not subdued by it, nor suffer it to slay those that do not otherwise presumeupon their own safety, but are desirous toaccept of it from thee. For this is not thefirst time that thou wilt bestow it on us; butbefore when we came to buy corn, thouaffordest us great plenty of food, and gavestus leave to carry home to our family, as muchas has preserved them from perishing byfamine. Nor is there any difference betweennot over looking men that were perishing forwant of necessaries, and not punishing thosethat seem to be offenders, and have been sounfortunate as to lose the advantage of thatglorious benefaction which they receivedfrom thee. This will be an instance of equalfavour, though bestowed after a different man­ner. For thou wilt save those this way, whomthou didst feed the other: and thou wilthereby preserve alive, by thy own bounty,those souls, which thou didst not suffer to bedistressed by famine. It being indeed at oncea wonderful and a great thing, to sustain ourlives by corn, and to bestow on us that par­don, whereby, now we are distressed, we maycontinue those lives. And I am ready to sup­pose that God is willing to afford thee thisopportunity of shewing thy virtuous disposi­tion, by bringing us into this calamity, that itmight appear thou canst forgive the injuriesthat are done to thyself, and mayest be es­teemed-kind to others, besides those, who,on other accounts, stand in need of thy assist­ance; since it is indeed a right thing to dowell to those who are in distress for want offood; but still a more glorious thing to savethose who deserve to be punished, when it ison account of heinous offences against thyself.For if it be a thing deserving commendationto forgive such as have been guilty of smalloffences, that tend to a person's loss, and thisbe praise-worthy in him that overlooks suchoffences; to restrain a man's passion, as tothe crimes which are capital to the guilty, isto be like the most excellent nature of Godhimself. And truly, as for myself, had it notbeen that we had a father, who had disco­vered, on occasion of the death of Joseph,how miserably he is always afflicted at theloss of his sons, I had not spoken on accountof the saving our own lives: I mean any fartherthan as that would be an excellent character formerly, in the person of Judas, and in the way of oratory,that lay by him; and which he thought fit to insert on this occasion. See two more such speeches or declamations.VI. 14.