OCR Output RAG AIL' f,91 RAMATHA. • place as »<w»l it two boon north of Ktrak. "The ruins,"Wr sir, ■ art situated on an eminence, ami presenti'til-V of interest, except two old ruined Romanrrpin ami Mm tombs. The whole circuit of the<^s dors not seem to have exceeded a mile, which • i «n«ll extent for a city that was the capital ofivv sod which bore such a high.sounding Greekm.* (Jvumal. June 5, p. 457.) They must■ t i* hdil responsible for the double error involved: Us last cited words, regarding the etymology oftt asn Areopolis. and its identity with Rabbath,- a i are ahno*t universal. [G. W-]EAGAE. [Ruagae.] i-WAXDO or RAGINDO, a town in the south-at of Soricum, on the great road leading from>fcm to Poetovinm, between the rivers Saras andmi (/(, Ant p. 129: /(. Hierot. p. 561;•k Pat.) Muchar (S'orieum, p. 240) looks for> o* > near Mosmt Studenitz; but other geographersCerUm diflerent opinions, and nothing certain canmmt [L. S/| aAOAU ("PeryoS, Isidor. Slalkm. rarth. § 13). by Isidorus in the district ofIt is probably thethe Ragaea of Ptolemy (Piryai'a,It is nut clear whether there exist at■u any remains of this town, but it must have3 a*.uated to the £. of XUhapur, between thatn aad HtnU. [V.]IAGIRAVA. [Rapava.] 1IAVAU ("Pajui). I. A city of the tribe ofrun.s. mrotioned with Gibeon and Beerothwi xnii. 25), and elsewhere with Bethel, as inkv; Huunt Ephraim. {Judges, iv. 5.) From. 19 at Judge* it would appear to have been not-=«» of Jerusalem, and lying near to Gibeah of.aria. Being- a border city between the king-n id Israel and Judah, it was fortified by Baashai i lirarL ** that be might not suffer any to go • ,ttx in to Asa, king of Judah." (1 Kings,17, ramp, xii. 37.) It il placed by Euscbiustmm north of Jerusalem, over against Betheli —■ i| a. '.). and by S. Jerome 7 miles from ijr-i scar Gabaa, and was a small village inasr. (timMit tn Has. cap. v., ra Sopion.. Li Josephua places it 40 stadia from Jeru-b. (AMt-Tiii. 12-§ 3.) Its site is still markeda* la^scxabl* tillage of Kr-Rdm, situated on a • ti*e east of the Xablis road, 2 hoursa < Jenxaaletn, and half an boor west of Jeba\i& .eat Gibeah. It* tituation is very coni-c v. um3 it retains a few scattered relics of itsra usportance- (Robinson, HibL lit*, vol. ii. -«• liso Raxlatha and Ramotii. [G. W.]UtATU-lJaHl, or simply LEHI (translatedEX 'OsiiijuriT o-iervdroj), where Samson slew■urines with the jaw-bone of an ass. (Judges,eV—19.) The name Rmleh appears so like aniruiirai or contraction — perhaps a corruptiona» auoe. that it may well be identified asr>. ,j trj^s ajaa/bter. And here probably was }m ■ k pa the Thamnitic toparchy in which and S. Jerome found the Ramathaimb 4 ^mmtsrl. and the Arimathaea of the Evan-». wiich they finer near to Lydda in the plain.F>aA, xxwfi. 57: & Mark, xv. 42; S. iAtkt,•it- S.Jok*, six. 38, 'Aoijiaflaia; Euscbius,Bsc g_ v. Arsmadui Sopkim; S. Jerome, A'pt-p. C7&> Or- ~ prevail against the admitted facts, " that a placecalled Ramathem or Iiamatha did anciently exist inthis region, somewhere not far distant from Lydda"(Bibl. Jtes. vol. iii. p. 40), and that no other placecan be found answering to this description butRamleh, which has been regarded from very earlytimes as the place in question. The facts of Ramlehhaving been built by Suliman, son of the khalifAbd-el-Melik, after the destruction of Lydda in theearly part of the 8th century, and that the Arabicname signifies " the sand," will not seriously mili­tate agHinst the hypotheses with those who con­sider the great probability that the khalif would fixon an ancient, but perhaps neglected, site for hisnew town, and the common practice of the Aral*to modify the ancient names, to which they wouldattach no meaning, to similar sounds intelligible tothem, and in this instance certainly not less appre­ciate than the ancient name; although the situationof the town *• on a broad low swell in the sandythough fertile plain," would satisfy the condition re­quired by its presumed ancient designation. (Bibl.Res. vol. iii. p. 25—43.) It may be questionedwhether t henomus of Ramathem, ment ioned w ith t hoseof Apbeiremaand Lydda,as taken from Samaritisandadded to Judaea (1 Maecab. xi. 34; Josephus, Ant.2. § 3, 4. § 9), derived its name from this or fromone of the other Ramahs, in Benjamin. [G. W.] RAMATHA ( Po/joW), the form in which Jo-sephus represents the name of Samuel's native city,Ramathaim Sophim (LXX. 'ApuaOtu/x Zupd) ofMount Ephraim (1 Sam. i. 1), perhaps identicalwith Ramah, where was his ordinary residence (vii.17, viii. 4. xix. 18—24, xxv. 1), but distinct fromthe Ramah above named. Ancient tradition hasfixed this city at Neby Samicil, i. o. "The ProphetSamuel," a village situated on a very high andcommanding hill, two hours to the NNW. of Jeru­salem, where the place of his sepulture is shown.Kusebius and S. Jerome, however, found it in thewestern plain, near Lydda ( Onomast. s. v. A rnwihaSophim; see Ramath-Lehi). Dr. Robinson liasstated his objections to the identification of Ra­mathaim Sophim with Neby Samvtl, and has endea­voured to fix the former much further to the south,on the hill called Svba, a little to the south of theJaffa road, about 3 hours from Jerusalem; whileMr. Wolcott has carried it as far south as the vicinityof Hebron. (Robinson. Bibl. Res. vol. ii. pp. 139—144, 330—334, BibL Sacra, vol. i. pp. 44—52.)These objections are based on the hypothesis thatthe incidents attending Saul's unction to the king­dom, narrated in I Sam. ix. x., took place in Ramah ofSamuel, of which, however, there is no evidence; andhis difficulty would press almost with equal weighton Soba, as the direct route from Saba to Gibeah(Jeba') would certainly not have conducted Saul byRachel's sepulchre. Neither can the district ofMount Ephraim be extended so far south, lndivd,this last seems to be the strongest objection to Ae6ySamicil, and suggests a site further north, perhapsRam- Ullah, in the same parallel of latitude as theother Ramah and Bethel, which were certainly inMount Ephraim. (Judges, iv. 5.) On the otherhand, the name Ramah, signifying "a height," is soremarkably applicable to A>6y Samwil, which isevidently the site of an ancient town, which couldnot, as Dr. Robinson suggests, have been Miipah,that it would be difficult to find a position bettersuited to Ramathaim Sophim than that which tra­dition has assigned it. [MiZTAU.] [G. W.] r y 2