OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5*7 But we are still assured by monuments of brass and marble, by theimperial medals, and by the Antonine column, that neither theprince nor the people entertained any fense of this signal obligation,since they unanimously attribute their deliverance to the providenceof Jupiter, and to tlie interposition of Mercury. During the wholecourse of his reign, Marcus despised the Christians as a philosopher,•and punished them as a sovereign >"'. By a singular fatality, the hardships which they had endured un- c^Ufi^firder the government of a virtuous prince,, immediately ceased on the ^ommodus^accession of a tyrant, and as none except themselves had experien- •nd-Severus.. A. D. 180.. ced the injustice of Marcus, so they alone were protected by thelenity of Commodus. The celebrated Marcia, the most favoured ofhis concubines, and who at length contrived the murder of her im­perial lover, entertained a singular affection for the oppressedchurch; and though it was impossible that she could reconcile thepractice of vice with the precepts of the Gospel, she might hope taatone for the frailties of her sex and profession, by declaring herselfthe patroness of the Christians ,c6. Under the gracious protectionof Marcia, they passed in safety the thirteen years of a cruel ty­ranny; and when the empire was established in the house of Severrus, they formed a domestic but more honourable connexion withthe new court.. : The emperor was persuaded, that, in a dangeroussickness, he had derived some benefit, either spiritual or physical,from the holy oil, with which one of his slaves had anointed him.He always treated with peculiar distinction several persons of bothsexes who had embraced the new religion. The nurse, as well asthe preceptor, of Caracalla, were Christians; and if that young princeever betrayed a sentiment of humanity, it was occasioned by an in­cident, which, however trifling, bore some relation to the cause ofChristianity ,C7. Under the reign of Severus, the fury of the popu­lace was checked, the rigour of ancient laws was for some time sus­pended j and the provincial governors were satisfied with receiving