OCR Output MANTUA. 26.5 MAXTZICIERT. said to signify in the Albanian language " aboundingin springs.* The road next passed by the fountainof the Meliastae (MeAiao-Tai), where were templesof Dionysus and of Aphrodite Melaenis: this foun­tain was 7 stadia from the city, opposite Ptolisor Old Mantineia. (Paus. viii. 6. §§ 4, 5.) Tiiepreceding account is rendered clearer by the mapon p. 263. (For the geography of Mantinice, aee Leake,Motto, toI. i. p. 100, scq, vol. iii. p. 44, seq.;FeiirpmtKsiaca, p. 369, seq.j Koss, Neisen imJ'tlopvitnes, Tul. i. p. 121, seq.; Curtius, Ptlopon-maot, toL i. p. 232, seq.) MA'NTUA (Mdrrova: Eth. Mantuanus: Man-J«ro),a city of Cisalpine Gaul, situated on the riverMincins, on an island formed by its waters, about12 miles above its confluence with the Padus.There seems no doubt that it was a very ancientcity, and existed long before the establishment ofthe Gauls in this port of Italy. Virgil, who wasnaturally well acquainted with the traditions of hisnative [.bee, tells ns that its population was amixed race, but the bulk of the people were of Etrus­can origin; and Pliny even says that it was theonly city beyond the Padus which was still inhabitedby an Etruscan people. (Virg. Am. x. 201 — 203;Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) Virgil does not tell us whatwere the other national elements of its population,and it is not easy to understand the exact meaningof bis expression that it consisted of three "ger.tes,"and that each gens comprised four " populi;" but itseems certainly probable that this relates to theinternal division of its own territory and population,and has no reference (as MUller has supposed) tothe twelve cities founded by the Etruscans in thevalley of the Padus. (MUller, Etnuker, vol. i.fv 137; Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 296, note 757.) TheEtruscan origin of Mantua is confirmed by its name,wbich was in all probability derived from that oft&e Etruscan divinity Mantus, though another tra­dition, adopted by Virgil himself, seems to hare de­duced it from a prophetic nymph of the name ofManto. (Serv. ad A en. I.e.; Schol. Veron. ad he.p. 103, ed. Keil.) According to one of the oldestsrbuliasts on Virgil, both Verrius Flaccus andCaedna, in their Etruscan histories, ascribed tiiefoundation of Mantua to Tarchon himself, whileVirgil represents Ocnus, the son of Manto, as itsfounder. (Virg. Aen. x. 200; Schol. Veron. I.e.)The only historical fact that can be considered asreuniting from all these statements is that Mantuareally was an Etruscan settlement, and that foraoow reason (probably from its peculiar and in­accessible situation) it retained much of its Etruscancharacter long after this had disappeared in theother cities of Cisalpine Gaul. After the settlement of the Gauls in NorthernItaly, Mantua was probably included in the territory(/the Ceoomani (Ptol. iii. 1. § 31); but we findno mention of its name in history, nor do we knowa: what period it passed under the Roman dominion.From as incidental notice in Livy (xxiv. 10) duringt!w Second Punic War, we may probably infer that itwit then on friendly terms with Hume, as were theC«x>mani and Veneti; and as its name is not men­tioned during the subsequent wars of the Romans inCiaalpioe Gaul, it is probable that it passed gra­dually, with the other towns of the Cenomani, froma state of alliance to one of dependence, and ulti­mately of subjection. But even under the RomanCtoomJoa the name of Mantua scarcely appears in history, and it is clear that it was far from pos­sessing the same relative importance in ancienttimes that it did in the middle ages, and still re­tains. It was undoubtedly a municipal town, andis mentioned as such by all the geographers, as wellas in inscriptions, but both Strabo and Martial speakof it as very inferior to the neighbouring city ofVerona, in comparison with which the latter termsit " parva Mantua." (Strab. v. p. 213; Plin. iii. 19.s. 23; Ptol. iii. 1. §31; Martial, xiv. 195.)During lhe civil wars after the death of Caesar,Mantua suffered the loss of a part of- its territory,for Octavian having assigned to his dischargedsoldiers the lands of the neighbouring Cremona,andthese having proved insufficient, a portion of theterritory of Mantua was taken to make up thenecessary amount. (Virg. Eel. ix. 28, Geary, ii.198; Serv. ad loc.) It was on this occasion thatVirgil was expelled from his patrimonial estate,which he however recovered by the favour of Au­gustus. The chief celebrity of Mantua under the RomanEmpire was undoubtedly owing to its having beenthe birthplace of Virgil, who has, in consequence,celebrated it in several passages of his works; and itsname is noticed on the«ame account by many of thelater Roman poets. (Virg. Georg. iii. 12; Ovid,^lmor.iii. 15. 7 ; Stat. Silv. iv. 2. 9 ; Sil. Ital. viii. 595;Martial, i. 62.2, xiv. 195.) According to Donatus,however, the actual birthplace of the poet was thevillage of Andes in the territory of Mantua, and notthe city itself. (Donat. Vit. Virg. 1; Hieron. Chron.ad ann. 1947.) After the fall of the Roman Empire, Mantua appearsto have become a place of importance from its greatstrength as a fortress, arising from its peculiar situa­tion, surrounded on all sides by broad lakes or ex­panses of water, formed by the stagnation of theriver Miucius. It, however, fell into the hands of theLombards under Agilulf (P. Diac. iv. 29), and afterthe expulsion of that people was governed by in­dependent counts. ■ In the middle ages it becameone of the most important cities of the N. of Italy;and is still a populous place, and one of the strongestfortresses in Italy. It is still so completely sur­rounded by the stagnant waters of the ilineio, thatit is accessible only by causeways, the shortest ofwhich is 1000 feet in length. Mantua was distant from Verona 25 miles; sothat Procopius calls it a day's journey from thence.(Procop. B. G. iii. 3.) It was situated on a line ofroad given in the Tabula, which proceeded fromMediolanum, by Cremona and Bedriaeum, to Mantua,and thence to Hostilia, where it crossed the Padus,and thence proceeded direct to Ravenna. {Tab. l'eut.)Mantua was distant from Cremona by this roadabout 40 miles. It would appear from one of theminor poems ascribed to Virgil (Catalect. 8.4), thatthis distance was frequently traversed by muleteerswith light vehicles in a single day. [E. H. B. j MANTZICIEKT (Mw-rfurifpr, Const. Porph. <lcAdm. Imp. c. 44), a fortress of great importanceupon the Armenian frontier. In A.u. 1050, it offeredso determined a resistance to Togrul Bet, the founderof the Scljukian dynasty, that he had to give up allhope of breaking through the barrier of fortressesthat defended the limits of the empire, and retiredinto Persia. (Cedrcn. vol. ii. p. 780; Le Beau, BosEmpire, vol. xiv. p. 367; Finlay, Byzantine Empire,p. 023.) It is identified with Melasyerd or Ua-natkkert, situated to the N\V. of lake I'dn, and the