OCR Output 336" THE DECLINE AND FALL i granted them an honourable capitulation, and permitted them toreturn in safety to their native country. But the losses which theysuffered in the march, the battle, and the retreat, broke the powerof the nation: nor is the Lygian name ever repeated in the historyeither of Germany or of the empire. The deliverance of. Gaul isreported to have cost the lives of four hundred thousand of the in­vaders; a work of labour to the Romans, and of expence to theemperor, who gave a piece of gold for the head of every barba­rian '9. But as the fame of warriors is built on the destruction ofhuman kind, we may naturally suspect, that the sanguinary accountwas multiplied by the avarice of the soldiers, and accepted withoutany very severe examination by the liberal vanity of Probus.and carries Since the expedition of Maximin, the Roman generals had con-Gcrmany.nt0 fined their ambition to a defensive war against the nations of Ger­many, who perpetually pressed on the frontiers of the empire. Themore daring Probus pursued his Gallic victories, passed the Rhine,and displayed his invincible eagles on the banks of the Elbe and theNecker. He was fully convinced that nothing could reconcile theminds of the barbarians to peace, unless they experienced in theirown country the calamities of war. Germany, exhausted by theill success of the last emigration, was astonished by his presence.Nine of the most considerable princes repaired to his camp, and fellprostrate at his feet. Such a treaty was humbly received by theGermans, as it pleased the conqueror to dictate. He exacted astrict restitution of the effects and captives which they had carriedaway from the provinces; and obliged their own magistrates topunish the more obstinate robbers who presumed to detain any partof the spoil. A considerable tribute of corn, cattle, and horses, theonly wealth of barbarians, was reserved for the use of the garrisonswhich Probus established on the limits of their territory. He evenentertained some thoughts of compelling the Germans to relinquishshe exercise of arms, and to trust their differences to the justice, their