OCR Output B.VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 333 encouraging the men of power amongst the Atheniansto join their efforts with them for the erection of anoligarchy, though a party was very busy in opposingthem, with a view to quash the projected alteration.The Athenians, farther, at Samos had in private con­ferences come to a resolution — " to think no longer." of Alcibiades, since he shewed himself so averse to* ' join them, and in fact was by no means a proper"person to have a share in an oligarchical administra-"tion: — Bur, merely from a principle of self-preser-"vation, as now they were environed with dangers,*' they should take all possible care that the project:*' should not drop in the execution. — That, farther,"they should prosecute the war with vigour, and con-"tribute largely towards it from their own private"purses, and answer every other exigence of service,*' since, no longer for others, but their own sakes, they*' must continue the struggle." Determined, there­fore, to proceed in this manner, they dispatch Pisanderand half the former deputation once more to Athens, tomanage the execution of the project there: To whom,farther, instructions were given, at whatever places intheir dependency they should touch upon the voyage,to set up the oligarchy. The other half they sent se­verally about to other of the dependent States. Dio-trephes also, who was now at Chios, but appointed totake upon him the command of the Thracian pro­vinces, they ordered away immediately to his post. Diotrephes, upon his arrival at Thasus, dissolved thepopular government. And, in the second month atmost aster this, the Thasians fortified their city, as menwho no longer cared for an aristocracy under Athenianinfluence, but were in daily expectation of receivingliberty from the Lacedæmonians: For a number oftheir countrymen, driven out by the Athenians, werenow refuged among the Peloponnesians. These werelabouring the point with their correspondents in Tha­sus, to bring off their shipping, and declare a revolt. 'The