OCR Output 138 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV. it came to a close fight they broke their ranks, and every oneretired to his own home. 7. Thus did Simon unexpectedly march into Idumea with足out bloodshed, and made a sudden attack upon the cityHebron, and took it; wherein he got possession of a greatdeal of prey, and plundered it of a vast quantity of fruit.Now the people of the country say that it is an ancientercity not only than any in that country, but than Memphisin Egypt, and, accordingly, its age is reckoned at two thou足sand and three hundred years. They also relate that it hadbeen the habitation of Abram, the progenitor of the Jews,after he had removed out of Mesopotamia ; and they say thathis posterity descended from thence into Egypt, whose monu足ments are to this very time showed in that small city; thefabric of which monuments are of the most excellent marble,and wrought after the most elegant manner. There is alsothere showed, at the distance of six furlongs from the city, avery large turpentine-tree;' and as the report goes, that thistree has continued ever since the creation of the world.Thence did Simon make his progress over all Idumea, anddid not only ravage the cities and villages, but laid waste thowhole country; for, besides those that were completely armed,he had forty thousand men that followed him, insomuch thathe had not provisions enough to suffice such a multitude.Now, besides this want of provisions that he was in, ho wasof a barbarous disposition, and bore great anger at this nation,by which means it came to pass that Idumea was greatly de足populated ; and as one may see all the woods behind despoiledof their leaves by locusts, after they have been there, so wasthere nothing left behind Simon's army but a desert. Someplaces they burnt down, some they utterly demolished; andwhatsoever grew in the country they either trod it down orfed upon it; and by their marches they made the groundthat was cultivated harder and more untractable than that 1 Some of the ancients cull this famous tree, or grove, an oak, others aturpentine tree, or grove. It has been very famous in all tho past ages, andis so, I suppose, at this day, and that particularly for an eminent mart ormeeting of merchants there every year, as the travellers inform us.