OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL again saved, and Astolphus was taught the lessons of justice and sincerity by tfeescourge of a foreign master. After this double chastisement, the Lombards lan­guished about twenty years in a state of langour and decay. But their minds werenot yet humbled to their condition; and instead of affecting the pacific virtues ofthe feeble, they peevishly harassed the Romans with a repetition of claims, eva­sions, and inroads, which they undertook without reflection, and terminated with­out glory. On either side their expiring monarchy was pressed by the zeal andprudence of pope Adrian I. the genius, the fortune, and greatness of Charlemagne,the son of Pepin; these heroes of the church and state, were united in public anddomestic friendship, and while they trampled on the prostrate, they varnishedtheir proceedings with the fairest colours of equity and moderation. (1) The passesof the Alps, and the walls of Pavia, were the only defence of the Lombards; theformer were surprised, the latter were invested, by the son of Pepin; and after ablockade of two years, Desiderius, the last of their native princes, surrenderedhis sceptre and his capital. Under the dominion of a foreign king, but in the pos­session of their national laws, the Lombards became the brethren rather than thesubjects of the Franks; who derived their blood, and manners, and language, fromthe same Germanic origin. (2) The mutual obligations of the popes and the Carlovingian family form the im­portant link of ancient and modem, of civil and ecclesiastical history. In the con­quest of Italy, the champions of the Roman church obtained a favourable occasion, aspecious title, the wishes of the people, the prayers and intrigues of the clergy.But the most essential gifts of the popes to the Carlovingian race were the digni­ties of the king of France,(3) and of patrician of Rome. I. Under the sacerdotalmonarchy of St. Peter, the nations began to resume the practice of seeking, on thebanks of the Tiber, their kings, their laws, and the oracles of their fate. TheFranks were perplexed between the name and substance of their government. Allthe powers of royalty were exercised by Pepin, mayor of the palace; and nothing,except the regal title, was wanting to his ambition. His enemies were crushed byhis valour; his friends were multiplied by his liberality; his father had been the sa­viour of Christendom; and the claims of personal merit were repeated and ennobledin a descent of four generations. The name and image of royalty were still pre­served in the last descendant of Clovis, the feeble Childeric; but his obsolete rijjrit.could only be used as an instrument of sedition: the nation was desirous of restoringthe simplicity of the constitution; and Pepin, a subject and a prince, was ambitiousto ascertain his own rank and the fortune of his family. The mayor and the no­bles were bound, by an oath of fidelity, to the royal phantom: the blood of Cloviswas pure and sacred in their eyes; and their common ambassadors addressed theRoman pontiff, to dispel their scruples, or to absolve their promise. The interestof pope Zachary, the successors of the two Gregories, prompted him to decide, andto decide in their favour: he pronounced that the nation might lawfully unite, inthe same person, the title and authority of king; and that the unfortunate Childerie,a victim of the public safety, should be degraded, shaved, and confined in a mo­nastery for the remainder of his days. An answer so agreeable to their wishes wasaccepted by \he Franks, as the opinion of a casuist, the sentence of a judge, or theoracle of a prophet: the Merovingian race disappeared from the earth; and Pepinwas exalted on a buckler by the suffrage of a free people, accustomed to obey hislaws and to march \jnder his standard. His coronation was twice performed, withthe sanction of thepoj^s, by their most faithful servant St. Boniface, the apostle ofGermany, and by the grateful hands of Stephen III., who, in the monastery of St.Denys, placed the diadem on the head of his benefactor. The royal unction of thekings of Israel was dexterously applied, (4) the successor of St. Peter assumed the (1) Except in the divorce of the daughto, of Desiderius, whom Charlemagne repudiated sine aliqno cri-mrae. Pope Stephen IV. hadmost furiously opposed the alliance of a noble Frank-oum perfida, horrida.necdieendafaHcntissimanationeLangobardorum>towborn he imputes the first stain of leprosy. (Cod. Carolm.epist. 45. p. 178,179.) Another reason against t)» marriage was the existence of a first wife. (Muratori, Anna-fi d'ltalia, torn. ri. p. 232, 233.236, 237.) But ChMcmagne indulged himself in the freedom of polygamy urconcubinage. do r so- (2)..SZ? ?he Annali d'ltalia of Muratori, torn. vi.aw the three first dissertations of his Antiquitates Italia;Medn Mn, torn. 1. ^ (3) Besides the common historians, three French critic, Launoy, (Opera, torn. v. pars ii. lib. vii. epist. ix. p.477-487.) Pagi, (Critic*, A. D. 751. no. 1.6. A. D. 752. no.t_io.) and Natalis Alexander, (Hist. Novi Testa­ment!, dissertat. n. p. 26—107.) have treated this subject of the deposition of Childeric with learning ami at­tention, but with a strong bias to save the independence of the crown. Vet they are hard pressed by the textwhich they produce of Eginhard, Theophanes, and the old annals, Laureshamensis Fuldensis, Loisielani. (4) Not absolutely tor the first time. On a less conspicuous theatre it had been used, in the smh and se­venth centunesjjjy the provincial bishops of Britain and Spain. The royal unction of Constantinople wsa