OCR Output LATHRIPPA. 131 LATIUM. of the localities. Thus the laborious, bat often mostinaccurate, compiler Forbigcr, while taking on himselfto correct Strain's exact account, tells ns that "theriver and lake (Strabos harbour) have now entirelyvanished ;" and ret, a few lines down, he refers to apa.-'sa^e of Beechey» work within a very few pagesof the place where the river itself is actually de­scribed I (Forbiger, Handbuch der altcri Geographic,vol. ii. p. 828, note.) The researches made in Beechey's expeditionpre the following results :—East of the headland onwhich stands the rains of Hesperides or Berenice (nowBengaa) is a small lake, which communicates withthe harbour of the city, and has its water of coursesilt. The water of the lake varies greatly in quan­tity, according to the season of the year; and isnearly dried up in summer. There are strong groundsto believe that its waters were more abundant, andi:s communication with the harbour more perfect, inindent times than at present. On the margin of theUk* is a spot of rising ground, nearly insulated inwiater,« which are the remains of ancient buildings.List of this lake again, and only a few yards from itsmarzin, there gushes forth an abundant spring offresh water, which empties itfelf into the lake, "run-rinj along a channel of inconsiderable breadth, bor-■fcred with reeds and 11151163,*' and " might be mistakenby a common observer for an inroad of the lake intothe sandy soil which bounds it." Moreover, this isthe only stream which empties itself into the lake;and indeed the only one found on that part of thecoast of Cyrenaica. Now, even without searchingfarther, it is evident how well all this answers to theAscription of Strabo (xvii. p. 836) :—" There is apnewntory called Pseudopenias, on which Berenice iscitnated, beside a certain Lake of Tritonia (irapotkuanp ti*A T>*Te*v«£8a), in which there is generally(uiAiora) a little inland, and a temple of Aphroditeodijo it: but there is (or it is) also the Harbour ofHuperidte, and the river Lsthon falls into it." Iti* dow evident how much the sense of the descrip­tion wnuld lie impaired by reading kifttnj for Xtuvjv intv list clause: and it matters but little whetherKrJx> speaks of the river as falling into the harbourWao«e it fell into the lake which communicated*i:h the harbour, or whether he means that the lake,*aicb he calls that of Tritonis, was actually the bar­ker (that is, an inner harbour) of the city. But theI»t:k *treain which falls into the lake is not the onlyn-tresentative of tiie river Lathon. Further to the•ast, in one of the subterranean caves which abound« the neighbourhood of Beugazi, Beechy found alarre body of fresh water, losing itself in the bnwelsrf the earth ; and the Bey of Beugazi atlinned that hebad tricked its subterraneous course till he doubtedthe aafety of proceeding further, and that he hadfarad it ma much as 30 feet deep. That the streamttnu lost ia the earth is the same which reappears inu* spring on the margin of the lake, is extremelypeohahV; but whether it be so in fact, or not, wecan hardly doubt that the ancient Greeks wouldnru^ine the connection to exist. (Beechey, Procted-t*j'. re. pp. 326, foil.; Barth, Wanderungen, tfe. p.»:. [I\o.] LATHRIPPA (AaBpiwwa), an inland town ofArabia Felix, mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 7. §31),vlach there ia no difficulty in identifying with theanewit name of the renowned El-Medinch, "thefl^y* m ii is oiled by emphasis among the disciples•f the false prophet Its ancient name, Yuthrib,■till exUts in the native geographies and local tra- ditions, which, with the definite article el prefixed,is as accurately represented by Lithrippa as theGreek alphabet would admit. "Meduith is situatedon the edge of the great Arabian desert, close to thechain of mountains which traverses that countryfrom north to south, and is a continuation of Libanon.The great plain of Arabia in which it lies is con­siderably elevated above the level of the sea. It isten or eleven days distant from Afelka, and has beenalways considered the principal fortress of theHedjaz, being surrounded with a stone wall. It isone of the best-built towns in the East, ranking inthis respect next to Aleppo, though ruined housesand walls in all parts of the town indicate how farit has fallen from its ancient splendour. It is sur­rounded on three tides with gardens and plantations,which, on the east and south, extend to the distanceof six or eight miles. Its population amounts to16,000 or 20,000 —J0,000 or 12,000 in the town,the remainder in the suburbs." (tiurckbardt, A rabta,321—WO; Bitter, Erdhande, vol. i. p. 15, ii.pp. 149, &c.) [G.W.] LATIUM (^AttWwi: Eth. and Adj. Latinus),was the name given by the llomans to a district orregion of Central Italy, situated on the Tyrrheniansea, between Etruria and Campania. I. Name. There can be little doubt that Latium meantoriginally the land of the Latini, and that in this,as in almost all other cases in ancient history, thename of the people preceded, instead of being derivedfrom, that of the country. But the ancient Boinanwriters, with their usual infelicity in all matters ofetymology, derived the name of the Latini from aking of the name of Latinus, while they sought foranother origin for the name of Latium. The com­mon etymology (to which they were obviously led bythe quantity of the first syllable) was that whichderived it from '* lateo ;'* and the usual explanationwas, that it was so called because Saturn had therelain hid from the pursuit of Jupiter. (Virg. Aen.viii. 322; Ovid, Fasti. 238.) The more learnedderivations proposed by Saufeius and Varro, from theinhabitants having lived hidden in caves (Saufeius,ap. Serv. ad Aen. i. 6), or because Latium itselfwas as it were hidden by the Apennines (Varr. ap.Serv. ad Aen. viii. 322), are certainly not more sa­tisfactory. The form of the name of Latium wouldat first lead to the supposition that the ethnic La­tini was derived from it; but the same remark ap­plies to the case of Snmnium and the Samnite*,where we know that the j*ople, being a race offoreign settlers, must have given their name to thecountry, and not the converse. Probably Latini isonly a lengthened form of the name, which wasoriginally Latii or Latvi; for the connection whichhas been generally recognised between Latini andLaviniurn, Latinus and Lavinus. seems to point tothe existence of an old form, Latvinus. (Doualdf-on.Varronianus, p. 6; Niebuhr, V.u, L.Kunde, p. 352.)Varro himself seems to regard the name of Latiumas derived from tliat of Latinus {I.I,, v. § 32);and that it was generally regarded as equivalent to'• the land of the Latins" is sufficiently proved bythe fact that the Greeks always rendered it by rjAarirrij or rj Aarivwv 71J. The name of Adrtoy isfound only in Greek writers of a late period, who bor­rowed it directly from the Unmans. (Appian, B. V.ii. 26; Herodian, i. 16.) From the same cause itmust have proceeded that when the Latini ceased to K 2