OCR Output 466 ROMAN EMPIRE. servation of the native tongue reveals the descent of theMahometans of Persia/ In the mountains and deserts,an obstinate race of unbelievers adhered to the supersti­tion of their fathers; and a faint tradition of the Magiantheology is kept alive in the province of Kirman, alongthe banks of the Indus, among the exiles of Surat, andin the colony which, in the last century, was planted byShaw Abbas at the gates of Ispahan. The chief pontiffhas retired to mount Elbourz, eighteen leagues from thecity of Yezd: the perpetual fire (if it continue to burn)is inaccessible to the profane; but his residence is theschool, the oracle, and the pilgrimage, of the Ghebers,whose hard and uniform features attest the unmingledpurity of their blood. Under the jurisdiction of theirelders, eighty thousand families maintain an innocent andindustrious life; their subsistence is derived from somecurious manufactures and mechanic trades; and theycultivate the earth with the fervour of a religious duty.Their ignorance withstood the despotism of Shaw Abbas,who demanded with threats and tortures the propheticbooks of Zoroaster; and this obscure remnant of the Ma-gians is spared by the moderation or contempt of theirpresent sovereigns.' The northern coast of Africa is the only landand fail of in which the light of the gospel, after a longantyta an(^ Perfect establishment, has been totally ex-Africa, tinguished. The arts, which had been taughtby Carthage and Rome, were involved in a cloud ofignorance; the doctrine of Cyprian and Augustin wasno longer studied. Five hundred episcopal churches 1 The last Magian of name and power appears to be Mardavige the Dilemitewho, in the beginning of the tenth century, reigned in the northern provinces ofPersia, near,the Caspian sea. (D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p.'335.) But hissoldiers and successors, the BoiriJa, either professed or embraced the Mahometanfaith; and under their dynasty (A.D. 933—1020.) I should place the fall of thereligion of Zoroaster. r The present state of the Gbebera in Persia is taken from Sir John Chardin,not indeed the most learned, but the most judicious and inquisitive, of our moderntravellers. (Voyages in Perse, torn. 3. p. 109. 179—187. in quarto.) His bre­thren, Pietro de la Valle, Clearius, Thevenot, Tavemier, &c. whom I hare fruit­lessly searched, had neither eyes nor attention for this intereeting people.