OCR Output MVLAE. 385 MYLASSA. Ik/iraLatinos, on the banks of which the ac­tus fufoa'ht, cannot be identified with certainty. h e probable that, even after the Roman conquest4s.ii, Mrlae continned to be a dependency ofH^.-iia, u km; as that city enjoyed its privileged(featanisaMoederata civitas: " hence no mention. tad of its name in the Verrine orations of Cicero;it ic tot time uf Pliny it had acquired the ordinaryaxxijal prink^ei of the Sicilian towns. (Plin. iii.t a I4t FtuL Hi. 4. § 2.) It never, however, seems• air Ufn & place of importance, and was at thist*ni ihuii; crliraed by the neighbouring colony ofl-t-.i Bit the strength of its position as a■ "7w oajeJ it in the middle ages to be an object4 fclatiia to the Norman kings of Sicily, as wella h tar naperor Frederic II.; and though now: *i opriertnl, it is still a military position of import­s'-^ Ike Ciodero city of Miiaso is a tolerablyla-jimr, (bee, with about 8000 inhabitants; it istat l» tie not part on a low sandy neck of land,rn^tjjj top peninsula, which is bold and rocky,Hi tto jraitiaiid. Bat the old town, which pro-"MipW the same site with the ancient city,•> rocky hill, forming the first rise of the>i' Et,-e that constitutes the peninsula or hcad-j -J i Capo <£ MSaao. The modern castle on a•3 4 pm!rr deration, commanding both the upperaw1 i«r ton, is probably the site of the ancient*=«<•». (Ttaie, Hi. SO; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 103,Ban, Clinical Tour, vol. ii. p. 215.)■» Frooolory of Mylae, stretching out abruptly*» tar tea, ferns the western boundary of a bay«'*«.-i«r»H* fitent, affording excellent anchorage.fckwn» memorable in ancient history as thefeat tws peat naval actions. The first of these*» U« victory obtained by the Roman fleet undert falsa, over that of the Carthaginians in the^* hak War, a. c 260, in which the Romankr a«aM of the engines called Corvi (thenW far tit (rat tone), totally defeated the enemy's»i •» Uk fifty of their ships. (Pol. i. 23.) Morea* cestones later, it was in the same bay that»bo commanded the fleet of Octavian,•«•»: laatnf Status Pompeius, B. c. 36. Agrippa(rum the ifiland of liiera, where his fleet* an Wee stationed, while the ships of Pompey■« «aor»» of the bay of Mylae. After their>•* fi»y took refuge at the mouths of the nume-■■•aili ritara, or rather mountain torrents, whichn xrw^ tije After this battle, Agrippa"* a^i master of Mylae as well as Tyndaris;"»-• taw afterwarda again defeated the fleetI - v. u a second and more decisive action,JlrUe and a place called Xaulochus. TheI**""** ■ otherwise unknown, but it seems to*» ^ tituated somewhere in the neighbourhoodI fa* ftix/rmlmo, the Phalacrian promontorv of(Ayaaan, A C. T. 195—109, 115—122;■ CtjsvxJix. J—11; Veil. Pat, ii. 79; Suet. a mrxxt of this campaign Appian speaks[*•» <m aarneil Artkmisii'M, which is no-Duo Ca»ias and must have been situ-"» t»the K. of Mylae, but is not mentioned!■? -t tat f ojtraphers. (Appian, B.C. v. 116;Csta. xia. 8.) It ia, however, obviously theasm aliaded to by Siliaa ltalicus as therankaa DiaDae" (Sil. Jtal. xiv. 260), andof his satires,Sat. iii. 13.) El«ii.ia Ihanae" (Sil. Jtal.:Ltntiaa, m a fragment iiatrrta laanac." (Lucil. Vibius Sequester also mentions a river which liecalls Phaceuxcs, and describes as "juxta Pe-lorideni, confinis templo Dianae." (Vib. Seq. p. 16.)It is, however, obvious, from Appian, that the templowas not situated in the neighbourhood of Pelorus,but at a short distance from Mylae, though thoprecise Bite cannot be determined. It was desig­nated by popular tradition as the spot where the*sacred cattle of the Sun had been kept, and wereslaughtered by the companions of Ulysses. (Appian,Lc; Plin. ii. 98. s. 101.) The Mons Thorax,mentioned by Diodorus in his account of the battleof the Longanus (Diod. xxii. 13), must have beenone of the underfalls of the Neptunian Monntains,which throughout this part of Sicily descend close tothe sea-shore; but the particular mountain meant iswholly uncertain. [E. H. B.] MYLAE. Pliny (iv. 12) speaks of two islandsof this name, lying off the coast of Crete. Theybelonged to the group of three islands off Phalasama(A'urW), called by the Anonymous Coast-describcrJusagoka, Mkse, Myle (Sladiasm). Petalidhais the name of the northernmost of the three littleislands; the second, opposite to which is Kaviri, iscalled Megaloneri, in spite of its very moderate size;and the third Pnuoneri. (Pashlev, Trav. vol. ii. p.61) "[E. B.J.] MYLAE (Mi/Am: EtA. MuWoi),a town of Per-rhaebia in Thessaly, taken by Perseus in b. c. 171.(Liv. xlii. 54; Steph. B. s. r.) As Livy describesit as a strong place near Cyretiae, it is placed byLeake at Dlutmdsi, " which is not only strong initself, but very important, as commanding the pnssof the Titaresius, leading into Pcrrhacbia from thePelasgiotis." (Noriliem Greece, vol. iv. p. 311.) MYLAS, or MYLE (MuAar), a promontory onthe coast of Cilicia, between cape Aphrodisias inthe west and cape Sarpedon in the east. On or closeto it was a small town of the same name (Plin.v. 22; Stadiasm. Mar. Mag. §§ 165,166.) As theStadiasmns calls Mylas a cape and chersonese,Leake (Aria Minor, p. 205) is inclined to identifyit with cape Cavaliere, which answers exactly tothat description. [L. S.] MYLASSA or MYLASA (to; Mi\aaaa, or Mu-Kaaa: Kth. MuXa/reo'v), the most important town ofCaria, was situated in a fertile plain, in the west ofthe country, at the foot of a mountain, abounding inbeautiful white marble, of which its buildings andtemples were constructed. Hence the city was ex­ceedingly beautiful on account of its white marbletemplesand porticoes,and many wondered that so finoa city was built at the foot of a steep overhangingmountain. The two most splendid temples in thecity were those of ZeusOsogos and Zeus Labrandenus,the latter of which stood in the neighbouring villageof Labranda, on a hill, and was connected with thecity by a road called the sacred, CO stadia in length,along which the processions used to go to the temple.The principal citizens of Mylassa were invested withthe office of priests of Zeus for life. The city wasvery ancient, and is said to have been the birthplaceand residence of the Carian kings before Halicar-nassus was raised to the rank of a capital. Itsnearest point on the coast was Physcus, at a dis­tance of 80 stadia, which was the port of Mylassa;though Stephanus B. calls Passala its port-town.(Strab. xiv. p. 658, &c; Aeschyl. Fragm.48, whereit is called Mylas; Steph. B. t. v. ; Herod, i.171. Ptol. v. 2. §20; Plin. v. 29; Paus. viii. 10.§ 3.) The splendour of Mylassa is attested by an c c