OCR Output 26 Book XVII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 5. But now Herod's distemper greatly Increased upon himafter a severe manner, and this by God's judgement upon himfor his sins; for a fire glowed in him slowly, which did not so muchappear to the touch outwardly, as it augmented his pains in­wardly ; for it brought upon him a vehement appetite to eating,which he could not avoid to supply with one sort of food orother. His entrails were also exulcerated, and the chief vio­lence of his pain lay on his colon ; an aqueous and transparentliquor also had settled itself about his feet, and a like matter af­flicted him at the bottom of his belly. Nay, farther, his privy-member was putriiied, and produced worms ; and when he satupright, he had a difficulty of breathing, which was very loath­some, on account of the stench of his breath, and the quicknessof its returns; he had also convulsions in all parts of his body,which increased his strength to an unsufierable degree. It wassaid by those who pretended to divine, and who were enduedwith wisdom to foretel such things, that God inflicted this pu-nishment on the king on account of his great impiety ; yet washe still in hopes of recovering, though his afflictions seemedgreater than any one could bear. He also sent for physicians,and did not refuse to follow what they prescribed for his assist­ance, and went beyond the river Jordan, and bathed himself inthe warm baths that were at Callirrhoe, which, besides theirother general virtues, were also fit to drink ; which water runsinto the lake called Asphaltitis. And when the physicians oncethought fit to have him bathed in a vessel full of oil, it was sup­posed that he was just dying ; but, upon the lamentable cries ofhis domestics, he revived ; and having no longer the least hopesof recovering, he gave order that every soldier should be paidfifty drachmae ; and he also gave a great deal to their command­ers, and to his friends, and came again to Jericho, where he grewso choleric, that it brought him to do all things like a madman ;and though he were near his death, he contrived the followingwicked designs. He commanded that all the principal men ofthe entire Jewish nation, wheresoever they lived, should be call­ed to him. Accordingly, they were a great number that came,because the whole nation was called, and all men heard of thiscall, and death was the penalty of such as should despise theepistles that were sent to call them. And now the king was ina wild rage against them all, the innocent as well as those thathad afforded ground for accusations; and when they were come, he year of the Julian period 4710, and the 4th year before the Christian aera. Seeits calculation by the rules of astronomy, at the end of the Astronological Lec.rares, edit. Lat. p. 451. 451.