OCR Output CHAP. L. 317 ship into implacable hatred, with which he pursued thatunfortunate people to the last moment of his life; andin the double character of an apostle and a conqueror,his persecution was extended to both worlds.11 TheKainoka dwelt at Medina under the protection of thecity: he seized the occasion of an accidental tumult, andsummoned them to embrace his religion, or contend withhim in battle. Alas (replied the trembling Jews), weare ignorant of the use of arms, but we persevere in thefaith and worship of our fathers; why wilt thou reduceus to the necessity of a just defence? The unequal conflictwas terminated in fifteen days; and it was with extremereluctance that Mahomet yielded to the importunity ofhis allies, and consented to spare the lives of the cap­tives. But their riches were confiscated, their armsbecame more effectual in the hands of the Mussulmans;and a wretched colony of seven hundred exiles wasdriven with their wives and children to implore a refugeon the confines of Syria. The Nadharites were moreguilty, since they conspired in a friendly interview toassassinate the prophet. He besieged their castle threemiles from Medina, but their resolute defence obtainedan honourable capitulation; and the garrison, soundingtheir trumpets and beating their drums, was permittedto depart with the honours of war. The Jews had ex­cited and joined the war of the Koreish: no sooner hadthe nations retired from the ditch, than Mahomet, with­out laying aside his armour, marched on the same dayto extirpate the hostile race of the children of Koraidha.After a resistance of twenty-five days, they surrenderedat discretion. They trusted to the intercessipn of theirold allies of Medina: they could not be ignorant thatfanaticism obliterates the feelings of humanity. A ve­nerable elder, to whose judgment they. appealed, pro­nounced the sentence of their death: seven hundred "The ware of Mahomet against the Jewish tribes, of Kainoka, the Nadhirites,Koraidha, and Chaibar, are related by Abolfeda(p. 61. 71. 77. 87, &c.) and Gag.nier. (torn. 9. 61—65.107—114. 139—148. 268—294.)