OCR Output 360 LIVY. 8. The new consuls, Sextus JElius Pastus and TitusQuintius Flamininus, on assuming the administration,[A. U. C. 554. B. C. 198] convened the senate in thecapitol, and the fathers decreed, that 'the consulsshould settle between themselves, or cast lots, for theprovinces Macedonia and Italy. That he to whomMacedonia fell should enlist, as a supplement to thelegions, three thousand Roman footmen, and threehundred horse; and also five thousand footmen, andfive hundred horsemen, of the Latine confederates.'The army assigned to the other consul was to consistintirely of new-raised men. Lucius Lentulus, consulof the preceding year, was continued in command, andwas ordered not to depart from the province, nor toremove the old army, until the consul should arrivewith the new legions. The consuls cast lots for theprovinces, and Italy fell to JElim, Macedonia to Quin足tius. Of the pretors, the lots gave to Lucius CorneliusMerula the city jurisdiction; to Marcus Claudius, Si足cily; to Marcus Poroius, Sardinia; and to Caius Hel-vius, Gaul. The levying of troops was then begun;for besides the consular armies, they had been orderedalso to enlist men for the pretors: for Marcellus, inSicily, four thousand foot and three hundred horse ofthe Latine confederates; for Cato, in Sardinia, threethousand foot and two hundred horse of the samecountry; with directions that both these pretors, ontheir arrival in their provinces, should disband the ve足terans, both foot and horse. The consuls then intro足duced to the senate ambassadors from king Attalus.These, after representing that their king gave everyassistance to the Roman arms on land and sea, withhis fleet and all his forces, and had hitherto executedwith zeal and alacrity every order of the consuls,added, that 'they feared it would not be in his powerto continue so to do, as he was much embarrassed byAntiochus, who had invaded his kingdom when the seaand land forces, which might have defended it, wereremoved to a distance. That Attalus therefore in-treated the conscript fathers, if they chose to employ