OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 269 the reservoir of all the springs of Mount Olympus, rose to an un-. common height. The little river of Rhyndacus, that issues from it,swelled into a broad and rapid stream, and stopped the progress ofthe Goths. Their retreat to the maritime city of Heraclea, wherethe fleet had probably been stationed, was attended by a long trainof waggons, laden with the spoils of Bithynia, and was marked bythe flames of Nice and Nicomedia, which they wantonly burnt"7.Some obscure hints are mentioned of a doubtful combat that securedtheir retreat"8. But even a complete victory would have been oflittle service, as the approach of the autumnal equinox summonedthem to hasten their return. To navigate the Euxine before themonth of May, or after that of September, is esteemed by the mo­dern Turks the most unquestionable instance of rashness and folly "9. When we are informed that the third fleet, equipped by the Goths Third navaI * * K _ • ■ expedition of in the ports of Bosphorus, consisted of five hundred sail of ships "% the Goths.our ready imagination instantly computes and multiplies the for­midable armament j but, as we are assured by the judicious Strabothat the pyratical vessels used by the barbarians of Pontus and theLesser Scythia, were not capable of containing more than twenty-five or thirty men, we may safely affirm, that fifteen thousand war­riors, at the most, embarked in this great expedition. Impatient ofthe limits of the Euxine, they steered their destructive course fromthe Cimmerian to the Thracian Bosphorus. When they had almostgained the middle of the Straits, they were suddenly driven backto the entrance of them; till a favourable wind springing up the They pass thenext day, carried them in a few hours into the.placid sea, or rather thesHeii«landlake of the Propontis. Their landing on the little island of Cyzicus, spont*was attended with the ruin of that ancient and noble city. Fromthence issuing again through the narrow passage of the Hellespont,they pursued their winding navigation amidst the numerous island*scattered over the Archipelago, or the Ægean Sea. The assistance'of captives and deserters, must have been very necessary to pilot their vessels,