OCR Output 166 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIT. admitted him into it, on account of the riches that lay in thetemple; but led by his covetous inclination, (for he saw therewas in it a great deal of gold, and many ornaments that hadbeen dedicated to it of very great value,) and in order to plunderits wealth, he ventured to break the league he had made. So heleft the temple bare; and took away the golden candlesticks, andthe golden altar [of incense,] and table [of shew-bread,] and thealtar [of burnt-offering;] and did not abstain from even the vails,which were made of fine linen and scarlet. He also emptied itof its secret treasures, and left nothing at all remaining; and bythese means cast the Jews into great lamentation, for he forbadethem to offer those daily sacrifices which they used to offer toGod, according to the law. And when he had pillaged the wholecity, some of the inhabitants he slew, and some he carried cap­tive, together with their wives and children, so that the multi­tude of those captives that were taken alive amounted to aboutten thousand. He also burnt down the finest buildings; andwhen he had overthrown the city walls, he built * a citadel inthe lower part of the city, for the place was high, and over­looked the temple, on which account he fortified it with highwalls and towers; and put into it a garrison of Macedonians.However, in that citadel dwelt the impious and wicked part ofthe [Jewish] multitude, from whom it proved that the citizenssuffered many and sore calamities. And when the king had builtan idol altar upon God's altar, he slew swine upon it, and so of­fered a sacrifice neither according to the law, nor the Jewish re­ligious worship in that country. He also compelled them to for­sake the worship which they paid their own God, and to adorethose whom he took to be gods, and made them build temples,and raise idol altars in every city and village, and offer swineupon them every day. He also commanded them not to cir­cumcise their sons, and threatened to punish any that should befound to have transgressed his injunctions. He also appointedoverseers, who should compel them to do what he commanded.And indeed many Jews there were who complied with the king'scommands, either voluntarily or out of fear of the penalty thatwas denounced: but the best men, and those of the noblest souls,did not regard him, but did pay a greater respect to the customs * This Citadel, of which we have such frequent mention in the following history,both in the Maccabees and in Josephus, seems to have been a castle built on a hill,lower than mount Zion, though upon its skirts, and higher than mount Mcriah, be­tween them both; which hill the enemies of the Jews now got possession of, andbuilt on it this citadel and fortified it, till a good while afterwards the Jews regainedit, and levelled the hill itself with the common ground, that their enemies mightno more recover it, and might thence overlook the temple itself, and do them suchmischief as they had long undergone from it, Antiq. B. XIII. chap. vi. sect. 6, Vol. II.