OCR Output CHAP. LI 409 merchant of Edessa, who is said to have laden nine hun­dred camels with the weight of the brass metal: an enor­mous weight, though we should include the hundredcolossal figures,0 and the three thousand statues, whichadorned the prosperity of the city of the sun.Egypt. II. The conquest of Egypt may be explainedand aie of ty ^e character of the victorious Saracen, one ofAmiou. the first of nis nation, in an age when the meanestof the brethren was exalted above his nature by the spi­rit of enthusiasm. The birth of Amrou was at once baseand illustrious: his mother, a notorious prostitute, wasunable to decide among five of the Koreish; but theproof of resemblance adjudged the child to Aasi, theoldest of her lovers.d The youth of Amrou was impelledby the passions and prejudices of his kindred: his poeticgenius was exercised in satirical verses against the per­son and doctrine of Mahomet; his dexterity was em­ployed by the reigning faction to pursue the religiousexiles who had taken refuge in the court of the Ethio­pian king.* Yet he returned from this embassy a secretproselyte; his reason or his interest determined him torenounce the worship of idols; he escaped from Meccawith his friend Caled, and the prophet of Medina enjoyedat the same moment the satisfaction of embracing thetwo firmest champions of his cause. The impatience ofAmrou to lead the armies of the faithful was checked bythe reproof of Omar, who advised him not to seek powerand dominion, since he who is a subject to-day, may bea prince to-morrow. Yet his merit was not overlookedby the two first successors of Mahomet; they were in­debted to his arms for the conquest of Palestine; and inall the battles and sieges of Syria, he united with the c Centum colossi ahum nobilitaturi locum, says Pliny, with his usual spirit.Hist , Natur. 34.18. d We learn this anecdote from a spirited old woman, who reviled to their facesthe caliph and his friend. She was encouraged by the silence of Amrou and thnliberality of Moawiyah. (Abulfeda, Annal. Moslem, p. 111.) » Gagnier. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 2. p. 46, &c. who quotes the Abyssinian his­tory, or romance of Abdel Balcides. Yet the fact of the embassy and ambassadormay be allowed.