OCR Output t?ft T II E H I S T O R Y B o o K the Fabii took arms, and afiembled in the place ap"-^_-rl _. pointed. The conful, coming forth, in his militaryY.R.Z75. robe *, law his whole family in the court-yard, drawnB.C.477. Up in orcler Of march, and being received into thecentre, ordered them to fet forward. Never did anarmy, either fmaller in number, or more highlydiftinguifhed in fame, and the general admiration ofall men, march through the city. Three hundredand fix foldiers, all of them patricians, all of onerace; not one of whom would be judged unfit forfupreme command by the fenate, when beft filled,at any time whatever, proceeded on their way;threatening deftruction to the ftate of the Veientians,by the prowefs of one family. A crowd attendedthem, compofed, partly, of their own connections,their relations and particular acquaintances, who heldno moderation either in their hopes or anxieties,nor conceived any profpects but fuch as were bound-kfs; and partly, of fuch as were attracted by zealfor the public intereft, all enraptured with efteemand admiration. They bade " the heroes to pro-"ceed; to proceed with happy fortune, and to ob-"tain fucceis proportioned to the merit of their un-"dertaking;" defiring them to expect afterwards,"confulfhips, triumphs, every reward, every ho-"nour' which was in the power of the public to be-"ftow." As they pafied by the Gapirol, the cita­del, and other facrfd places, whatever deities occur­red to the people's fight or thoughts, to them" theyoffered up their prayers, that they would " crown"that band with fuccefs and profperity, and foon"reftore them in fafcty to their country and their"parents." Bur their prayers were fruitlefs. Paff-ing along the unfortunate ftreet, and through theright-hand poftern of the Carmental gate, they arrived * Before n conful fct out on any rxp^uition, lie ofFtred f.iciifices aftJprayers in ilie Capitol; and then, laying aliHe Ills confular gown<marcheil out of the city, dre/recl in a iiulitaiy robs of ftate, called^Paludumentum. at