OCR Output 5J4 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. "it was a most excellent and most pleasing sight to a good and"a righteous man to see the wicked punished." So Jehonadabwas persuaded by these arguments and came up into Jehu'schariot, and came to Samaria. And Jehu sought out for allAhab's kindred, and slew them. And being desirous that noneof the false prophets nor the priests of Ahab's god, might es­cape punishment, he caught them deceitfully by this wile: forhe gathered all the people together, and said, That " he would"worship twice as many gods as Ahab worshipped, and desired"that his priests, and prophets, and servants might be present"because he would offer costly and great sacrifices to Ahab's"god, and that if any of his priests were wanting, they should"be punished with death." Now Ahab's god.was called Baal.And when he had appointed a day on which he would offer thosesacrifices, he sent messengers through all the country of the Is­raelites, that they might bring the priests of Baal to him. SoJehu commanded to give all the priests vestments; and whenthey had received them, he went into the house [of Baal,] withhis friend Jehonadab, and gave orders to make search whetherthere were not any foreigner or stranger among them, for hewould have no one of a different religion to mix among theirsacred offices. And when they said that there was no strangerthere, and they were beginning their sacrifices, he set fourscoremen without,- they being such of his soldiers as he knew to bemost faithful to him, and bid them slay the prophets, and nowvindicate the laws of their country, which had been a long timein disesteem. He also threatened, that if any one of them es­caped, their own lives should go for them. So they slew themall with the sword, and burnt the house of Baal; and by thatmeans purged Samaria of foreign customs, [idolatrous worship.]Now this Baal was the god of the Tyrians; and Ahab, in orderto gratify his father-in-law, Ethbaal, who was the king of Tyreand Sidon, built a temple for him in Samaria, and appointed himprophets, and worshipped him with all sorts of worship, although,tvhen this god was demolished, Jehu permitted the Israelites toworship the golden heifers. However, because he had done thus,and taken care to punish the wicked, God foretold by his pro­phet, that his sons should reign over Israel for four generations:And in this condition was Jehu at this time. CHAP. VII. flow Athaliah reigned over Jerusalem for Jive [six] years, whenJehoiada the high priest slew her, and made Jehoash the sonof Ahaziah king. § 1. jN ow when Atnaliah, the daughter of Ahab heard ofthe death of her brother Jnram. and of her son Ahaziah,