OCR Output CHAP. XLVH. 81 wretchedness of the Greek patriarch and his diminutivecongregation.1 vi.The VI. TheCopticpatriarch,arebeltotheCaesars,^"Tand or a slave to the khalifs, still gloried in the filialWOBIANs. obedience of the kings of Nubia and ^Ethiopia.He repaid their homage by magnifying their greatness;and it was boldly asserted that they could bring into thefield a hundred thousand horse with an equal number ofcamels ;m that their hand could pour out or restrain thewaters of the Nile ;n and the peace and plenty of Egyptwas obtained, even in this world, by the intercession ofthe patriarch. In exile at Constantinople, Theodosiusrecommended to his patroness the conversion of theblack nations of Nubia," from the tropic of Cancer tothe confines of Abyssinia. Her design was suspectedand emulated by the more orthodox emperor. The rivalmissionaries, a Melchite and a Jacobite, embarked atthe same time; but the empress, from a motive of loveor fear, was more effectually obeyed; and the Catholicpriest was detained by the president of Thebais, whilethe king of Nubia and his court were hastily baptizedin the faith of Dioscorus. The tardy envoy of Justinian 'The history of the Copts, their religion, manners, &c. may be found in the abb*Renandot's motley work, neither a translation nor an original; theChroniconOrientale of Peter, a Jacobite; in the two versions of Abraham Ecchellensis,Paris, 1651, and John Simon Asseman, Venet. 1729. These annals descend nolower than the thirteenth century. The more recent accounts must be searchedfor in the travellers into Egypt, and the Nouveaux Memoires des Missions duLevant. In the last century, Joseph Abodacnus, a native of Cairo, published atOxford, in thirty pages, a slight Flistoria Jacobitarum, 147 post 150. • About the year 737. See Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 321, Z2S.Eimacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 99. » Ludolph. Hist. /T'.thiopic. et Comment.lib. 1. c. 8. Renaudot, Hist. Patriarch.Alex. 480, ore. This opinion, introduced into Egypt and Europe by the artifice ofthe Copts, the pride of the Abyssinians, the fear and ignorance of the Turks andArabs, has not even the semblance of truth. The rains of Ethiopia do not, in theincrease of the Nile, consult the will of the monarch. If the river approaches atNapata, within three days' journey of the Red Sea, (see D'Anville's maps) a canalthat should divert its course would demand, and most probably surpass, the powerof the Caesars. • The Abyssinians, who still preserve the features and olive complexion of theArabs, afford a proof that two thousand years are not sufficient to change the co­lour of the human race. The Nubians, and African race, are pure negroes, asblack as those of Senegal or Congo, with flat noses, thick lips, and woolly hair.(Buffon, Hint. Naturelle, torn. 5. p. 117.143,144. 166. 219. edit, in 12mo. Paris,1769.) The ancients beheld, without much attention, the extraordinary pheno­menon which has exercised the philosophers and theologians of modern rimes. VOL. VT. O