OCR Output 22S NOTES ON THE tible nature. Now the first of these powers you may call InteUleclual; the second •vivtsic ; the third Paonian, and so on, whichthe ancients, desiring to signify to us by names, have symbolicallydenominated. Henpe, says Olympiodorus in MS. Comment,in Gorgiam, we ought not to be disturbed on hearing suchnames as a Saturnian power, the power Jupiter, and such-like,but explore the things to which they allude. Thus for instance*by a Saturnian power rooted in the first cause, understand a pureintellect : for Kgoto; or Saturn is xogo; i. e. 5 xaSafOf, or, a pureintellect. Hence, fays Olympiodorus, we call those that are pureand virgins, xogai. He adds, On this account poets * fay, thatSaturn devoured his children, and afterwards, again sent theminto the light, because intellect is converted to itself, seeks itself,and is itself sought: but he again refunds them, because intel­lect not only seeks, and procreates, but produces into light audprofits. On this account, too, he is called a/xvXop«Ti{, orinfleSed counsel, because an inflected figure verges to itself.Again, as there is nothing disordered and novel in intellect,they represent Saturn as an old man, and as flow in his motion:and hence it is that astrologers fay, that such as have Saturnwell situated in their nativity are prudent and endued withintellect. Again, the ancient theologists called life by the name of Ju­piter, to whom they gave a two-fold appellation J** and <r,m,signifying by these names, that he gives life through himself.Farther still they aflert that the Sun is drawn by four horses, andthat he is perpetually young, signifying by this his power, whichis motive of the whole of nature subject to his dominion, hisfourfold conversions, and the vigour of his energies. But theyfay that the Moon is drawn by two bulls : by two, on account ofher increase and diminution; but by bulls, because as these tillthe ground, so the Moon governs all those parts which surroundthe earth- * This is asserted by Hcsiod in his Thcogony. Th»