OCR Output SARACEN'.. 905 SARAriS IXS. rarnlenng tribes. As their nomadic and migratoryetbirji were described by the latter, so their preda-jtt propensities, according to the most probableswrpretation of the name, m by the former, for'e Arabic veib Sarttia, according to lexicographers,r> . See "to plunder." (Bochart, Geog. Sac. lib. cap. 2, pp. 213, 214.) The derivation of theLf-i* from Sarah has been rejected by nearly allitje» as historically erroneons; and tho fact thatrLame was in use many centuries before Moham­ad, at once negatives the theory that it was adopted'ham or his followers, in order to remove thearma of their servile origin from Hagar the bond-ntB. (Reland, Polatttina, p. 87.) This authoraiBTains that u Saracen i nil nisi orientates populosKMX:' deriving the word from the Arabic tharaka•rrras fait; anil as unhappily the Greek alphabetdiscriminate between sin and thin, and thei* does not occur in the native authors, there isthing to determine the etymology. Mr. Korster,drrianre of Bocharl's severe sentence, "Qui adm rcferunt. nngas agunt" (Geog. Sac. i. 2, p.3X argues for the matronymic derivation fromrab. aud shows that the country of Edom, or theo'ltii and territory bordering on the Saracensriassac authors, are called ** the country, moun­ts. eYe. of Sarah" by the .Tews; and be main*•» that, aa this tract derived its name of Edom: I'tumara from the patriarch Ksau, so did it that**r*h from Si rah the wife of Abraham, the.*-*i«deed mother of the race. (Geog. of Ara-, roi- n- pp. 17—19.) His attempt to identifyNvrmrrni with the Amalekites is not so success- f r however difficult it may be to account for sptaarance of the latter the Kephidim■sat Mti: 1, 8; Rkthidim), which was ther.try of Saracena, yet their proper seat is4 beyond doubt in the south of the promisedt B tba hill-couDtry immediately north of theIrrjrwm of I "a ran. near to Kadesh (Xumb. xiii.. aod it ia impossible to understand "the valley"lit. 25. and "the hill " in xiv. 45, of Hureb, asIVrxter does, since the whole context implies a- n far to the north of the district of Horeh,mad by the following stations: Tsberah, 3 days'■my from *" the Mount of the Lord " (x. 33, xi.Kiisroth-battaarah, H axe roth, the wilderness of■a (xi. 34. 35, xii. 16, compare xxxiii. 16—18).BeM indee i be admitted that the name of theoccasionally used, in a much widerin its proper one, of all the KdomiteNorthern Arabia, as e. g. in 1 Sam.similarly the name Saraceni is extended inuas'a Prriplrm, already cited: but it seems more--al to interpret the words ol KtLXovutroi 2apa-*. **.ssurvat I'xo»t«« wooffiryopior of the generala af aeieral specific tribes, marking commonti or eommofi position rather than commonn. according to the analogy of the Scenitae inlime* and of Bcdawm = " deserti incolae," inmi times; particularly as it does not appear thataasa* wa» ever adopted by the Arabs themselves,not have been slow to appropriate anappellation, which would identify them! the great patriarch. That their predatory cha­ir bad become early established is manifest from'iperale expedient resorted to by the emperorrn is order to repress their encroachments. He—l ia have brought lions and lionesses fromloose on the borders ofas theCircisiumCastrum, that they might breed and propagate against the Sara­cens. (CAron. A lex. in a.m. 5760, Olymp. 257, Ind.xiv. = A. D. 251.) This strong fortress, railed byProcopius Circesium (KioKrjo-ioy ippovoiov), the mostremote of the Roman garrisons, which was fortifiedby Diocletian (Amm. Marc, xxiii. 5), was situatedon the angle formed by the confluence of the Abor-rhas (Khabour) and the Euphrates (it is still calledKarlcilia), so that it is clear that, in the time ofProcopius, the name of Saraceni was given to theArab tribes from Egypt to the Euphrates. Con­sistently with this view, he calls Zenobia's husbandOdonathes, " king of the Saracens in those parts"(Bell. Pers. ii. 5, p. 288);-and Belisarius's Arabcontingent, under their king Aretas ('Ap«6os) halikewise calls Saracens (ii. 16, p. 308). That Ro­man general describes them (c. 19, p. 312) as in­capable of building fortifications, but adepts atplunder, which character again justifies the ety­mology above preferred; while it is clear from theseand other passages that the use of the name hadbecome established merely as a general name, andprecisely equivalent to Arab (see Bell. Pen. i 19,p. 261), and was accordingly adopted and appliedindifferently to all the followers of Mohammed bythe writers of the middle ages. [G. W.] SARALA. [Sardinia.] SARA'LIUM or SARALUS (SdpoXoj), a townof the Trocmi in Galatia, on the east of the riverHalys. (Tab. Peut.; Ptol. v. 9. § 4.) [L. S.] SARAME'NE (ZapuWjiTi), a district of Pontus,on the bay of Amisus. (Strab. xii. p. 547; com p.Pontus.) [L. S.] SARAXGA (va 2d>ay,a), a small place on thecoast of Gcdrosia between the Indus and the Arabia.It was visited by Nearchus in his coast voyage toPersia (Arrian. Ind. c. 22). It has been conjecturedby Muller (Geogr. Grace. Min. L c, ed. Haris) thatit is the same as the 'Pifdi/o. of Ptolemy (vi. 21. § 2)- [V-] SARANGAE. [Drasoiana.] SARAXGES (iapdrw). a small tributary ofthe Hydraotes (Irdvati), mentioned by Arrian (Ind.c. 4) in his list of Indian rivers. It is doubtlessthe Sanscrit Saranga, though it has not beendetermined to what stream this Indian nameapplies. [V.] SARAPANA (iapawavd, Strab. xi. p. 500: 2a-pairaWs, Proccp. B. G. iv. 14), a strong position inIberia, upon the river Phasis, identified with Scha-rapani in Imiretia, on the modem road which leadsfrom Mingrelia into Georgia over Suram. (Comp.Journ. Geog. Soc. vol. iii. p. 34.) [E. B. J.] SARAPARAE (2o?crrdpai, Strab. xi. p. 531;Plin. vi. 16. s. 18), a Thracian people, dwelling be­yond Armenia near the Guranii and Medi, accordingto Strabo, who describes them as a savage, lawless,and mountainous people, who scalped and cut offheads (»rpio*in/i?icrrar Hal aa-ofrr^aAiirrdf). Thelatter is said by Strabo to be the meaning of theirname, which is confirmed by the fact that in thePersian tar means '* head" and para" division."(Anquetil, Sur let one. I^anguct dc la Perte, inMim. dc VAcad. <fc. vol. xxxi. p. 419, quoted inKramer's Strab. vol. ii. p. 500; comp. Groskurd'sSh-oi. vol. ii. p. 439.) SARAPIONIS PORTUS. [Xiconis Dnoatus.} SARAPIS INS. (2opc.7r.Jos rhoos), an island offthe South Coast of Arabia, mentioned by the author ofthe Periplus ascribed to Arrian (Geog. Grace. Aim.voL i. p. 19, Hudson) as situated 2000 stadia eaot