OCR Output Chap. II, ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 61 4. About this time died Phraates, king of the Parthians, bythe treachery of Phraataces his son, upon the occasion following.When Phraates had had legitimate sons of his own, he had alsoan Italian maid-servant, whose name was Thermusc, who hadbeen formerly sent to him by Julius Caesar, among other pre足sents. He first made her his concubine ; but he being a greatadmirer of her beauty, in process of time having a son by herrwhose name was Paraataces, he made her his legitimate wife,and had a great respect for her. Now, she was able to persuadehim to do any thing that she said, and was earnest in procuringthe government of Parthia for her son ; but still she saw that herendeavours would not succeed, unless she could contrive how toremove Phraates's legitimate sons [out of the kingdom] ; so shepersuaded him to send those his sons as pledges of his fidelity toRome; and they were sent to Rome accordingly, because it wasnot easy for him to contradict her commands. Now, whileFhraataces was alone brought up in order to succeed in the go.vernment, he thought it very tedious to expect that governmentby his father's donation [as his successor] ; he therefore formeda treacherous design against his father, by his mother's assist足ance, with whom, as the report went, he had criminal conver足sation also. So he was hated for both these vices, while hissubjects esteemed this [wicked] love of his mother to be noway inferior to his parricide ; and he was by them, in a sedi-.tion, expelled out of the country before he grew too great, anddied. 'But, as the best sort of Parthians agreed together, that itwas impossible they should be governed without a king, whilealso it was their constant practice to chuse one of the family ofArsaces, [nor did their law allow of any others ; and theythought this kingdom had been sufficiently injured already bythe marriage with an Italian concubine, and by her issue], theysent ambassadors, and called Orodes [to take the crown] ; forthe multitude would not otherwise have borne them ; andthough he were accused of very great cruelty, and was of anuntraciable temper, and prone to wrath, yet still he was one ofthe family of Arsaces. However, they made a conspiracy rugainst him, and slew him, and that, as some say, at a festival,and among their sacrifices ; (for it is the universal custom thereto carry their swords with them) ; but, as the more general re足port is, they slew him when they had drawn him out a-hunt-ing. So they sent ambassadors to Rome, and desired theywould send one of those that were there as pledges, to be theirking. Accordingly, Vonones was preferred before the rest,and sent to them; (for he seemed capable of such great fortune,which two of the greatest kingdoms under the sun now offeredhim, his own, and a foreign one^ However, the barbarians sooa