OCR Output 178 LIVY. Romans had by this time passed over the rampart, andfilled the camp with slaughter and confusion: theSamnite army had their disorder increased by a sud­den insurrection of their prisoners; some of whom,getting loose, set the rest at liberty, while otherssnatched the arms which were tied up among the bag­gage, and being intermixed with the troops, raised a-tumult more terrible than the battle itself. They thenperformed a memorable exploit; for, making an attackon Statins Minacius, the general, as he was passingbetween the ranks and encouraging his men, they dis­persed the horsemen who attended him, gatheredround himself, and dragged him, sitting on his horse,a prisoner to the Roman consul. This brought back,the foremost battalions of the Samnites, and the bat­tle, which seemed to have been already decided, wasrenewed : but they could not support it long. Sixthousand of them were slain, and two thousand firehundred taken, among whom were four military tri­bunes, together with thirty standards, and, what gavethe conquerors greater joy than all, seven thousandfour hundred prisoners were recovered. The spoilwhich had been taken from the allies was immense,and the owners were summoned by a proclamation toclaim and receive their property. On the day ap­pointed, all the effects, the owners of which did notappear, were given to the soldiers, who were obligedto sell them, in order that they might have nothing tothink of but their duty. 21. The depredations committed on the lands ofCampania had occasioned a violent alarm at Rome;and it happened that about the same time intelligencewas brought from Etruria that, after the departure ofVolumnius' army, all that country had risen up inarms, together with Gellius Egnatius, the leader of theSamnites; that the Umbrians were invited to join inthe insurrection, and the Gauls tempted with highoffers. Terrified at this news, the senate ordered thecourts of justice to be shut, and a levy to be made ofmen of every description. Accordingly, not only free­