OCR Output 44 THE DECLINE AND FALL emperors pervaded without an effort the wide extent of theirdominions, and was exercised with the same facility on the banksof the Thames,.or of the Nile, as on those of the Tyber. Thelegions were destined to serve against the public enemy, and theeivil magistrate seldom required the aid of a military force61. Inthis state of general security, the leisure as well as opulence bothof the prince and people, were devoted to improve and to adorn theRoman empire. Roman mo- Among the innumerable monuments of architecture constructedr.uniu.t:. ky the Romans, how many have escaped the notice of history, howfew have resisted the ravages of time and barbarism! And yet eventhe majestic ruins that are still scattered over Italy and the pro*vinces, would be sufficient to prove, that those countries were oncethe feat of a polite and powerful empire. Their greatness alone, ortheir beauty, might deserve our attention; but they are renderedmore interesting, by two important circumstances which connect theagreeable history of the arts, with the more useful history ofhuman manners. Many of those works were erected at private ex-pence, and almost all were intended for public benefit.Many of them It is natural to suppose that the greatest number, as well as themost considerable of the Roman edifices, were the works of theemperors, who possessed so unbounded a command both of menand money. Augustus was accustomed to boast that he had foundhis capital of brick, and that he had left it of marble 6+. Thestrict ceconomy of Vespasian was the source of his magni­ficence. The works of Trajan bear the stamp of his genius. Thepublic monuments with which. Hadrian adorned every province ofthe empire, were executed, not only by his orders, but under hisimmediate inspection. He was himself an artist; and he loved thearts, as they conduced to the glory of the monarch. They wereencouraged by the Antonines, as they contributed to the happinessof the people. But if the emperors were the first, they were not the only