OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 437 such words as entirely take away the nature of God, as othersof them have taken away his providence over mankind. Norcan any one perceive amongst us any difference in the con­duct of our lives, hut all our works are common to us all.We have one sort of discourse concerning God, which is con­formable to our law, and affirms that he sees all things; asalso we have but one way of speaking concerning the conductof our lives, that all other things ought to have piety fortheir end; and this any body may hear from our women andservants themselves. 21. And, indeed, hence hath arisen that accusation whichEome make against us, that we have not produced men thathave been the inventors of new operations, or of new waysof speaking; for others think it a fine thing to persevere innothing that has been delivered down from their forefathers,and these testify it to be an instance of the sharpest wisdomwhen these men venture to transgress those traditions;whereas we, on the contrary, suppose it to be our only wisdomand virtue to admit no actions nor supposals that are contraryto our original laws; which procedure of ours is a just andsure sign that our law is admirably constituted; for suchlaws as are not thus well made are convicted upon trial towant amendment. 22. But while we are ourselves persuaded that our lawwas made agreeably to the will of God, it would be impiousfor us not to observe the same; for what is there in it thatany body would change ? and what can be invented that isbetter ? or what can we take out of other people's laws thatwill exceed it ? Perhaps some would have the entire settle­ment of our government altered. And where shall we finda better or more righteous constitution than ours ? while thismakes us esteem God to be the governor of the universe, andpermits the priests in general to be the administrators of theprincipal affairs, and withal intrusts the government over theother priests to the chief high-priest himself: which priestsour legislator, at their first appointment, did not advance tothat dignity for their riches, or any abundance of otherpossessions, or any plenty they had, as the gifts of fortune; 37*