OCR Output 728 ROMA.ROMA. Novam VUn (habitavit)." The site of the tem­ple of Jupiter Stater roar tlie Summa Sacra Viais sufficiently certain without adopting the proofadduced by flecker from the equestrian statue ofCloelia, the history of which he completely misunder­stands. The passage from Pliny (xxxiv. 13) whichlie quotes (note 156) relates to another and appa­rently a rival statue of Valeria, the daughter ofPublico!*, who disputed with Cloelia the honour ofhaving swum the Tiber, and esea]»ed from the cus­tody of Porscna. Indeed, the two rival legends seemto have created some confusion anion}; the ancientsthemselves; and it was a disputed point in thetime of Plat&rch whether the dinting statue wasthat of Cloelia or Valeria. (I'upl. 19.) Beckerconfounds these two statues, and a&serts (note 155)that Pliny, its well as Dionysius, speaks of thestatue of Cloelia as no longer existing in his time.But Pliny, on the contrary, in the very chapterquoted, mentions it as still in being: "Cloeliaeetiam statua est equestris." It was the statue ofValeria that had disappeared, if indeed it hadever existed except in the account of AuniusFetialis. Pliny, therefore, must share the cas-tigation bestowed by Becker on Plutarch andServius for their careless topography: whoseassertion as to the existence of the statue in theirtime he will not believe, though the latter sayshe had seen it with his own eyes (ad Aeti. viii.640). The only ground which Becker has for soperemptorily contradicting these three respectableauthorities is a passage, in Dionysina (v. 35); who,however, only says that when he was at Koine thestatue no longer stood in its place (ratT^y vj/acisfiii' oi/K £ti K(ifi(V7}v tu^ojuev). and that on inquiryhe was told that it had been destroyed (JiipaviaQii)in a tire that had raged among the surroundinghouses. But Dionysius may have k*en misinformed;or perhaps ytyaviaQt] is to be taken in its literalsense, and the statue was only removed for a whileout of sight. We may assume, therefore, that it hadbeen restored to its original position in the periodwhich elapsed between Dionysius and Pliny, andthat it continued to adorn the Suimiia Sacra Via fursome centuries after the time of the former writer. The preceding passages abundantly establish thesite ot' the Porta Uugiotifc at that spot of the Pala­tine which faces the Summa Sacra Via, or presentarch of Titus; nor does it seem necessary, by wayof further proof, to resort to the far-fetched argumentadduced by Becker from the nature of the ground(Ilaudb. p. 113), namely, that this is the only spoton the NE. face of the hill which offers a naturalascent, by the road (Via Fuhxriera) leading up tothe Convent of 6". Uumireutura. That road, indeed,has all the appearance of being an artificial ratherthan a natural ascent, and may have been madecenturies afier the time of Romulus. Unfortunately,too, for Becker's round assertion on this subject(Handb, p. 109), that we must ab initio embrace asan incontrovertible principle that gates are to besought only where the hill offers natural ascents, wefind that the only other known gate, the Porta Ro-manula, was, on his own showing, accessible only bymeans of steps. For the situation of this gate Varrois again our principal authority. We have seen inthe passage before quoted from that author that itopened into the Nova Via, near the Sacellum Vo-lupiae, by means of steps. Varro again alludes to itin the following passage: 4t Hoc sacriiiciuin (toArea harentia) tit in Velabro, qua in Novam Viam exitur, ut aiunt quidam, ad sepukrum Areas, atquod ibi prope faciunt Diis Mawbus Servilibto ta»dotes; qui uterque locus extra urbem antrum fatnon longe a Porta Romanuls, de qua in prwc*Ba)dixi." (L. L. ti. § 24, Mull.) Tbe sue rf titSacellum Volupiae cannot be determined; bot AsVelabrum is one of the most certain spots in Immtopography, and is still indicated br tbe cheatwhich hears its name, S. Giorgio m FcZo***.learn from both these passages of Varro—f* Sanligcr's emendation of Nova Via for S'jvilia Mmformer is incontestable — the exact site of ti*MRomanula; for as t he sacritue alluded to ws aiformed in the Velabrum near tb* spot*tatiNova Via entered it, and as the 1*. Riinantlinslfar from this place, it follows that it must hart*]at the lower end of the street or in the tajiauXVia. Varru's account is confirmed by FoOJ262, Mull.), who, however, calls the pateinstead of Romanula: "Sed porta Romans iadlest a Komulo intimo clivo Victorias, qui kxat|dibus in quadram f.-nnatns e>t: appelUU mtliomana a Sabinis praecijiue, quod ea pr.answitus erat Romain." Here the same steps in*»Jito that are mentioned by Varro. Tbe CItbsItoriae was that part of the NW. declivitf afjPalatine which overhung the Nova Via. It *■named either from a temple of Victory seatedeatop uf the hill (*' in aedem Victoriae, quae estiajlatio, pertulere deam," Liv. xxlx. 1 4). or nwnbably — as this temple was not dedicated ■ Lstuinius till b. c. 2'J5—from an ancient £rv«.aito Victory, on this side of the Palati&e. »*srLupercal (Dionys. i. 32), the tradition of eithough the grove itself had long disappeared,bably led to the temple being founded then. The Komulean city must undoubtedly haetat least a third gate, both from the lesUDflPliny and because it cannot be supposed that 1maining two sides were without an exit; betis no authority to decide where it lay. Beckers'that it was seated at the southernmost poio: otfthibut this, though probable enough,is LOthinf nfla conjecture. The Porta JanualLs the third gsttfltioned by Varro, was most probably as old asdaflof Romulus, though it certainly never beloogsiflPalatine city. Its situation and true nature eSdiscussed presently. We find, howeTer, a r*!seaFerentina mentioned by Plutarch (Rnn. 30)Mrelates that Romulus, after the murder of TMwhich was followed by visible signs of the mmanirer, purified Rome and Laurentnm by rite**,stilt continued to be observed at that (fate. Wfind an account in Festus (p. 213) ot a iVcta P%lris, which was so called "propter aliqca |quae ibidem fiebant;" and some have a=a-aaMUller, ad Fest. I c.) that these two paaajidentical. It is well known that the Rj naat)had sometimes two names; and this <ictatlprobable in the case of those which had sueaegioua ceremony connected with tbetn. 1(Handb. p. 177) rejects, however, with seallike indignation the idea that such a cmnthave belonged to the Komulean city, and tjbMfore either place it in the Lucns Keren taaa*. exthe text of Plutarch, his u>ual expedient. Jgether, however, it doc» not seem quite so icanaathat it may have been the third and misuse MRomulus, since its name indicates its aiteafajS. extremity of the Palatine, just where wedwant of one.