OCR Output 218 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BlX)k XIII. hindered him from coming to Jerusalem; whereupon Tryphoremoved thence, and came into Celesyria, and falling vehement­ly upon the land of Gilead, he slew Jonathan there, and whenhe had given order for his burial, he returned himself to Anti-och. However, Simon sent some to the city Basea to bringaway his brother's bones, and buried them in their own cityModin; and all the people made great lamentation over him.Simon also erected a very large monument for his father and hisbrethren, of white and polished stone, and raised it a great height,and so as to be seen a long way off, and made cloisters about it,and set up pillars, which were of one stone a-piece; a work it waswonderful to see. Moreover, he built seven pyramids also forhis parents and his brethren, one for each of them, which weremade very surprising, both for their largeness and beauty, andwhich have been preserved to this day; and we know that it wasSimon who bestowed so much zeal about the burial of Jonathan,and the building of these monuments for his relations. NowJonathan died when he had been high priest * four years, andhad been also the governor of his nation. And these were thecircumstances that concerned his death. 7. But Simon, who was made high priest by the multitude,on the very first year of his high priesthood set his people freefrom their slavery under the Macedonians, and permitted themto pay tribute to them no longer; which liberty and freedomfrom tribute they obtained after a f hundred and seventy yearsof the kingdom of the Assyrians, which was after Seleucus, who * There is some error in the copies here, when no more than four years are as­cribed to the high priesthood of Jonathan. We know by Josephus' last Jewishchronology, Antiq. B. XX. chap. x. vol. III. that there was an interval of sevenyears between the death of Alcimus or Jacimus, the last high priest, and the realpriesthood of Jonathan, to whom yet those seven years seem here to be ascribed, asa p:irt of them were to Judas before, Antiq. B. XII. chap. 3t. sect. 6. vol. II. Nowsince, besides these seven years' interregnum in the pontificate, we are told, Antiq.B. XX. chap. z. that Jonathan's real high priesthood lasted seven years more; thesetwo seven years will make up fourteen years, which I suppose was Josephus' ownnumber in this place, instead of the four in our present copies. '(' These 17O years of the Assyrians mean no more, as Josephus explains himselfhere, than from the sera of Seleucus, which, as it is known to have began on the312th year before the Christian a;ra, from its spring in the first book of Maccabees,and from its autumn in the second book of Maccabees, so did it not begin at Baby­lon till the next spring, on the 311th year. See Prid. at the year 312. And it istruly observed by Dr. Hudson on this place, that the Syrians and Assyrians aresometimes confounded in ancient authors, according to the words of Justin theepitomizer of Trogus Pompeius, who says, That "the Assyrians were afterwardscalled Syrians," B. I. ch. xi. See Of the War, B. V. ch. ix. sect. 4. vol. IV. wherethe Philistines themselves, at the very south limit of Syria, in its utmost extent, ancalled Assyrians by Josephus, as Spanheim observes.