OCR Output MEVANIOLA. 353 MIDEIA. liter period it was occupied by the emperor Vitcllius,with the intention of defending the passes of theApennines against the generals of Vespasian, butbe quickly abandoned it again, and retired to Rome.(Tic. But. iii. 55, 59.) As it was situated in thephin, it could scarcely be a very strong fortress; buti'liar notices it as one of the few cities of Italy thathid walls of brick (xxxv. 14. s. 49). Strabo speaksof it as in his time one of the most considerabletowns in the interior of Uinbria: it was only of mu­nicipal rank, but seems to have continued a flourish­ing place throughout the period of the Empire.(Stab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii. 1.§54; Bin. AnL p. 311; Orell. Irucr. 98.) Themodem Btvagna is a very poor and decayed place,with little more than 2000 inhabitants, though re­taining iu episcopal see, and the title of a city. Itcontains some remains of an amphitheatre, and mosaicpavements which belonged to the ancient Thermae.(Calindri, Stat del Pontif. Stato, p. 104.) Merania appears to be indicated by the poet Pro-pmius himself as the place of his birth (iv. 1. 123),though others understand this passage differently,and regard Hispellum as having the better claim.(Birth. ViL Propert.; Kuinoel, ad I. c.) It wasnoted for the fogs to which it was subject. (Propertit; Sil. Ital. vi. 646.) Pliny speaks of its ter­ritory (Mevanas ager, ziv. 3 § 37) as producing a[articular kind of vine, which he calls Irtiola; pro­bably the same now called "Piizotcllo," for whichthe district is still celebrated. (Harduin, ad loc.;Kimpeldi. Coroyrafia, vol. i. p. 233.) [E. H. B.] MEVANIOLA. [Umbrja.] MIACOKUS or MILCORUS (Miejrapos, Mi'A-«•?«; Theopomp. ap. Steph. B. s. v.), a place whichmay be assigned to the interior of Chalcidice.(Leake, XortX. Greece, vol. iii. p. 456.) [E. B. J.] M1BA, in Britain, supposed more correctly Mida,U placed in the Ravennas's Cltorogmphy among thetov&s in the south of Britain. It has been con­jectured that Midhurst, in Sussex, is its modernrepresentative; but this supposition is not warrantedbj existing remains. [C. R. S.] M1CHMAS (MaxM«>, LXX.; Kaxfii, Joseph.,Emeo.), a city of the tribe of Benjamin, eastwardfrom Bethel or Bethaven (1 Sam. xiii. 5), held bythe Philistines, while Saul and the Israelites werein Gibeah. It was on the line of march of an in-Tiding army from the north, and the Assyriansire represented as depositing their baggage therewben advancing against Jerusalem. (Imiah, x. 28.)It U placed by Eusebius and St. Jerome in tile bor­ders of Aeha, and was then a considerable village,retaining iu ancient name, 9 miles from Aelia,tor Rama. (Onumcut. i. p.) The same descrip-I»k exactly applies to it at the present day. It is3 boon dirtant from Jerusalem, nearly due north.Mikbna* stand* on a low ridge between two smallVidra running south into the much larger valleynimed Wudy et-Stcmit. It bears marks of havingfc<*n i much larger and stronger place thau anyin th« vicinity. There are many foundations ofbwTi stones, and some columns among thein. TheH adf u-Stcinti is "the Passage of Michmash"fp*en of in 1 Samuel (xiii- 23), and Isaiah (x. 29).It is an extremely steep and rugged valley, whichommeoces in the neighbourhood of Bethel, and aIstk below (E.) if&khmat contracts between per-psiiculir precipices. The rocks Bozez and Seneh, mentioned in con-""M" with Jonathan's exploit (1 Sum. xiv. 4),VOL U. may still be recognised in two conical rocky knollsprojecting into the valley between Jeba' (ancientGibeah) and Mukhmas. (Robinson, Bill. lies. vol.ii. pp. 116, 117.) In the Talmud the soil of Mich­mash is celebrated for its fertility. (Reland, PaJues-tina, s.v. p. 897.) [G. W.] MIDAEIUM or MIDAIUM (MiSa.ioc) a town inthe NE. of Phrygia, on the little river Hathys, onthe road from Dorylaeum to Pcssinus, and belongingto the conventus of Synnada. (Steph. B. 9. v.;Plin. v. 32. a. 41; Ptol. v. 2. § 22; Strab. xii. p.576; Hierocl. p. 678, where it is wrongly calledM*5cuoi\) The town, as its name indicates, musthave been built by one of the ancient kings ofPhrygia, and has become celebrated in history fromthe fact that Sextus Poinpeius, the son of Pompeythe Great, was there taken prisoner by the generalsof M. Antony, find afterwards put to death. (DionCass. xlix. 18.) It has been supposed, with someprobability, that the town of Mygdum, mentionedby Aminianus Marcellinus (xxvi. 7), is the same asMidaeium. [L. S.] MIDEIA or MIDEA. 1. (MfSeia, Pnus.; M.JVa,Strab.: Eth. MiSm'tt/i), an ancient city of theArgeia, was originally called Persepolis (TltpaiasirdAis, Steph. B. s. v. MiSeia), and is mentioned byApollodorus (ii. 4. § 4) in connection with this hero.It was said to have derived its name from the wifeof Electryon, and was celebrated as the residence ofElectryon and the birthplace of his daughter Alc-mena. (Paus. ii. 25. § 9; Schol. ad Piiul. 01. vii.49.) But it is mentioned in the earliest divisionof the country, along with the Heraeum and Tiryns,as belonging to Proetus. (Paus. ii. 16. § 2.) Itwas the residence of Hippodameia in her banish­ment (Paus. vi. 20. § 7.) It was destroyed byArgos, probably at the same time as Tiryns, soonafter the Persian wars. (Paus. viiL 27. § 1; Strab.viii. p. 373.) Strabo describes Midea as near Tiryns; andfrom its mention by Pausanias, in connectionwith the Heraeum and Tiryns, it must bo placedon the eastern edge of the Argcian plain: butthe only clue to its exact position is the state­ment of Pausanias, who says that, returning fromTiryns into the road leading from Argos to Epi-daurus, "you will reach Mideia on the leftM (ii.25. § 9). Two different sites have been assigned toMideia. The French Commission place it at theHellenic remains at Dendrd, h\ geographical milesdirect E. by N. from the citadel of Argos, as thisplace lies to the left of the road from Arg(« toEpidaurus. But Leake objects, that the distanceof Dtndrd from this road — more than 3 geogra­phical miles — is greater than is implied by thewords of Pausanias. He therefore places Mideiaat the Hellenic remains near Katzingri, 2 geogra­phical miles due E. of Tiryns. The objection tothe latter site is that it lies to the right of theroad from Argos to Epidaurus, from which it isseparated by a deep ravine. The ruins at Dtndrastand upon a hill almost inaccessible on three sides,enclosed by four different walls, one above another,In one of them is a gateway formed of three piecesof stone, resembling the smaller gateway of thecitadel of Mycenae. The ruins descend from thesummit to a fountain, which springs out of a grottonear a chapel of the Panaglua. The surroundingmeadows afford good pasture for homos, and thusillustrate the epithet of Statius (7Vi>4. iv. 44) A A