OCR Output 24 LIVY. them, 'as matters have turned out, I praise and thankthe immortal gods, that the victorious enemy did notassault our camp itself, while you were hurrying intothe gates and over the rampart in such utter dismay.You would certainly have abandoned that, through thesame panic that made you give up the battle. Whatfright is this? What terror, what forgetfulness bothof your own character and that of your adversaries,has at once seized your minds? Surely they are thesame enemies, in defeating and pursuing of whom youspent the whole of the last summer; who for somedays past have fled before you night and day, whiteyou pressed on their rear; whom yesterday you didnot allow either to continue their march, or to formtheir camp. I say nothing of the advantages on whichyou ought to pride yourselves; but will mention what,of itself, ought to fill you with shame and remorse:yesterday you fought it out to the end on equal terms.What alteration has last night, what has this daymade? Have your forces been diminished; have theirsbeen augmented? I cannot persuade myself that I amspeaking to my own army, or to Roman soldiers. Thearms and appearances of the men are such as usual.But, if yon had possessed the usual spirit, would theenemy have seen your backs? Would he have carriedoff a standard from any one company or cohort? Hi­therto, he has boasted of putting our legions to thesword; you, this day, have been the first who haveconferred on him the glory of putting a Roman armyto flight.' On this the troops universally besoughthim to pardon their behavior of {hat day; and in-treated him, whenever he pleased, to make anothertrial of the courage of his soldiers. 'I will try you,soldiers,' said he, ' and to-morrow will lead you intothe field, that in the character of conquerors, not ofvanquished men, you may obtain the pardon which,you desire.' He then ordered that the cohorts whichbad lost their standards should receive barley for theirallowance, and the centurions of the companies whosestandards had been lost he deprived of their swords;