OCR Output 92 ITALIA. ITALIA. bishop, and the limits of the diocese in general co­incided with those of the municipal territory.* Butin the period of decay and confusion that followed,the episcopal see often remained after the city hadbeen ruined or fallen into complete decay: hencethe ecclesiastical records of the early ages of Chris­tianity are often of material assistance in enablingus to trace the existence of ancient cities, andidentify ancient localities, 4. Political and Administrative Division widerthe Roman Empire. ~— It is not till the reign ofAugustus that any division of Italy for adminis­trative purposes occurs, and the reason is obvious.So long as the different nations of Italy preservedthe semblance of independence, which they main­tained till the period of the Social War, no uniformsystem of administration was possible. Even afterthat period, when they were all merged in thecondition of Roman citizens, the municipal insti­tutions, which were still in full force, appear to havebeen regarded as sufficient for all purposes of in­ternal management; and the general objects of the.State were confided to the ordinary Roman magis­trates, or to extraordinary officers appointed forparticular purposes. The first division of Italy into eleven regions byAugustus, appeara to have been designed in thefirst instance merely to facilitate the arrangementsof the census; but, as the taking of this was closelycoupled with the levying of taxes, the same di­visions were soon adopted for financial and otheradministrative purposes, and continued to be thebasis <>f all subsequent arrangements. The divisionsestablished by Augustus, and which have fortunatelybeen preserved tit us by Pliny (the only author whomentions their institution), were as follows; — I. The First Region comprised Latinm (in themore extended sense of that name, including thelaud of the Hernicans and Volscians), together withCampania, and the district of the Picentini. Itthus extended from the mouth of the Tiber to thatof the Silarus ; and the Anio formed its boundaryon the X. II. The Second Region, which adjoined the pre­ceding on the SE., included Apulia, Calabria, andthe land of the Hirpini, which was thus separatedfrom the rest of Samnium. III. The Third Region contained Lucania andBruttium: it was bounded by the Silarus on theKW. and by the Bradanus on the XE. IV. The Fourth Region contained all Samnium,except the Hirpini, together with the Frentani,Marrucini, Marsi, Peligni, Aequhuli, Vestini, andSahini. It thus extended from the Anio to thefrontiers of Picenum,and from the boundary of Fim­bria on the N. to Apulia on the S, It was sepa­rated from the latter district by the river Tifernus,and from Picenum by the Aternus. V. The Fifth Region was composed solely of theancient Picenum (including under that name theterritory of Hadria and of the Praetutii), and ex­tended along the Adriatic from the mouth of theAternus to that of the Aesis. * A glance at the list of bishoprics existing inany of the provinces of Central Italy (Etruria, forinstance, or Umbria), as compared with the namesof the towns enumerated by Pliny in the same dis­trict, will at once show the connection between thetwo. (Bingham's Ecclesiastical ArUttpuities, book ix.chap. v. VI. The Sixth Region contained Umbria, to­gether with the land N. of the Apennines, onceoccupied by the Senonian Gauls, and which ex­tended along the coast of the Adriatic from theAesis to the Ariminus. On the W. it was sepa­rated from Etruria by the Tiber, along the left hankof which it extended as far as Oericulum. VII. The Seventh Region consisted of theancimtEtruria, and preserved the ancient limits of thatcountry; viz. the Tiber on the E., the Apennineson the N., and the Tyrrhenian sea on the W.ffrom the mouth of the Tiber to that of the Mien. VIII. The Eighth Region, or Gallia Cisjddaiia,extended from the frontiers of Liguria near Fa-cent ia, to Ariminum on the Adriatic, and wasbounded by the Apennines on the S , and by thePad us on the X. IX. The Ninth Region comprised Liguria, ex­tending along the sea-coast from the Mama to theVarus, and inland as far as the Pad us, which funnedits northern boundary from the confluence of theTrebia to its sources in Mt. Vcsulus. X. The Tenth Region was composed of Venetia,including the land of the Carni. with the aidingof Istria, and a part of Gallia Cisalpiua, previouslyoccupied by the Cenomani, extending as far W. uthe Addua. XL The Eleventh Region comprised the re­mainder of Gallia Transpadana, or the whole tractbetween the Alps and the Padus, from the sourcesof the latter river to its continence with the Auuaa. It is probable, both from the silence of Pliny, andfrom the limited seo]>e with which these divisionswere first instituted, that the regions had origi­nally no distinctive names applied to them: butthese would be gradually adopted, as the divisionacquired increased political imjHirtance. No diffi­culty could arise, where the limits of the Regioncoincided (or nearly so) with those of a previouslyexisting people, as in the cases of Etruria. Liguria,Picenum, &c In other instances the name of apart was given to the whole; thus, the first regioncame to be called Regio Campaniae; and hence, inthe Liber Coloniarum, the *' Civitates Campaniae"include all Latinm also. [Campania.] The nameof Regio Samnii or Samnium was in like mannergiven to the fourth region, though perhaps not tillafter the northern part of it had been t>eparated Iruruthe rest under the name of Valeria. The division introduced by Augustus continuedwith but little alteration till the time of Coo-htantine. The changes introduced by Hadrian andM. Amelias regarded only the administration ofjustice in Italy generally (Spartian. Hadr. 22;Capit. M. Ant. 11); but in this, as wvil at invarious other regulations, there was a marked a;>-proach to the assimilating the government of Italyto that of the provinces; and the term "Consu-laris," applied to the judicial officers ap}»ointed byHadrian merely to denote their dignity, toon cantt*to be used as an official designation fur the governorof a district, as we find it in the N^titisu But tb«distinction between Italy and the provinces is fctillstrongly marked by I'lpian, and it was not till tbcfourth century that the term "Provincia ** cameto be applied to the regions or districts of Iuiy(Mommsen, ad Lib. CoL pp. 11)3, 194.) The changes introduced into the divisions ofAugustus, either before tho time of Constantino orunder that emperor, were tho following:—1. Thefourth region was divided into two, the southern