OCR Output ITALIA. 87 ITALIA. ferent raee and origin from those by which they weresurrounded. This strongly marked distinctness fromthe other Italian races appears to have been recog­nised both by Roman and Greek writers. Dionysiuseven affirms that the Etruscans did not resemble,either in language or manners, any other peoplewhatsoever (Dionys. i. 30); and, however we mayquestion the generality of this assertion, the fact inregard to their language seems to be borne out bythe still existing remains of it. The various theoriesthat have been proposed concerning their origin, andthe views of modern philologers in regard to theirlanguage, are more fully discussed under the articleEtruria. It may suffice here to state that twopoints may be considered as fairly established: —1. That a considerable part of the population ofEtruria, and especially of the more southern portionsof that country, was (as already mentioned) of Pe-lasgic extraction, and continued to speak a dialectdoeriy akin to the Greek. 2. That, besides this,there existed in Etruria a people (probably a con­quering race) of wholly different origin, who werethe proper Etruscans or Tuscans, but who calledthemselves Rasena; and that this race was whollydistinct from the other nations of Central Italy.As to the ethnical affinities of this pure Etruscanrace, we are almost as much in the dark as wasDionysius; but recent philological inquiries appearto have established the fact that it may be referredto the same great family of the Indo-Teutonic na­tions, though widely separated from all the otherbranches of that family which we find settled inItaly. There are not wanting, indeed, evidences ofmany points of contact and similarity, with theUmbrians on the one hand and the Pelasgians onthe other; but it is probable that these are no morethan would naturally result from their close juxta­position, and that mixture of the different raceswhich bad certainly taken place to a large extentbefore the period from which nil our extant monu­ments are derived. It may, indeed, reasonably beassumed, that the Umbrians, who appear to havebeen at one time in possession of the greater part, ifnot the whole, of Etruria, would never be altogetherexpelled, and that there must always have remained,tspecially in the N. and E., a subject populationof L'mbriau race, aa there was in the more southerndistricts of Pelasgian. The statement of Livy, which represents theBhaetians as of the same race with the Etruscans(v. 33), even if its accuracy be admitted, throwsbut little light on the national affinities of the latter;for we know, in fact, nothing of the Khaetians, eitheru to their language or origin. It only remains to advert briefly to the severalbranches of the population of Northern Italy. Ofthese, by far the most numerous and important werethe Gauls, who gave to the whole basin of the Pothe name of Gallia Cisalpina. They were universallyadmitted to be of the same race with the Gauls whoinhabited the countries beyond the Alps, and theirmigration and settlement in Italy were referred bythe Roman historians to a comparatively recentperiod. The history of these is fully given underGallia Cisalpina. Adjoining the Gauls on theSW.,both slopes of the Apennines, as well as of theMaritime Alps and a part of the plain of the Po,were occupied by the Liguriamb, a people as towh.'« national affinities we are almost wholly in thedark. [Liguria.] It is certain, however, fromthe p*hive testimony of ancient writers, that they were a distinct race from the Gauls (Strab. U. p. 128),and there seems no doubt that they were establishedin Northern Italy long before the Gallic invasiun.Nor were they by any means confined to the part ofItaly which ultimately retained their name. At avery early period we learn that they occupied thewhole coast of the Mediterranean, from the foot ofthe Pyrenees to the frontiers of Etruria, and theGreek writers uniformly speak of the people whooccupied the neighbourhood of Massilia, or the modernProvence, as Ligurians, and not Gauls. (Strab. iv.p. 203.) At the same period, it is probable thatthey were more widely spread also in the basin ofthe Po than we find them when they appear inRoman history. At that time the Taurini, at thefoot of the Cottian Alps, were the most northern ofthe Ligurian tribes; while S- of the Padus they ex­tended probably as far as the Trebia. Along theshores of the Mediterranean they possessed in thetime of Polybius the whole country as far as Tisneand the mouths of the Arnus, while they held thefastnesses of the Apennines as far to the E. as thefrontiers of the Arretine territory. (Pol. ii. 16.)It was not till a later period that the Macro, becamethe established boundary between the Roman pro­vince of Lignria and that of Etruria. Bordering on the Gauls on the E., and separatedfrom them by the river Athesis (Adtge), were theVeseti, a people of whom we are distinctly told thattheir language was different from that of the Gauls(Pol. ii. 17), but of whom, as of the Ligurians, weknow rather what they were not, than what theywere. The most probable hypothesis is, that theywere an Illyrian race (Zeuss, Die Deutechen, p. 251),and there is good reason for referring their neigh­bours the Istkiaks to the same stock. On theother hand, the Carni, a mountain tribe in theextreme NE. of Italy, who immediately borderedboth on the Venetians and Istrians, were more pro­bably a Celtic race [Carni]. Another name which we meet with in this partof Italy is that of the Euganei, a people who haddwindled into insignificance in historical times,but whom Livy describes as once great and power­ful, and occupying the whole tracts from the Alpsto the sea. (Liv. i. 1.) Of their national affinitieswe know nothing. It is passible that where Livyspeaks of other Alpine races besides the Rhaetians,as being of common origin with the Etruscans (v.33), that he had the Euganeans in view; hut thisis mere conjecture. He certainly seems to have re­garded them as distinct both from the Venetiansand Gauls, and as a more ancient people in Italythan either of those races. V. History. The history of ancient Italy is for the most partinseparably connected with that of Home, and cannotbe considered apart from it. It is impossible hereto attempt to give even an outline of that history;but it may be useful to the student to present at oneview a brief sketch of the progress of the Komanarms, and the period at which the several nations ofItaly successively fell under their yoke, as well asthe measures by which they were gradually con­solidated into one homogeneous whole, in the formthat Italy assumed under the rule of Augustus.The few facts known to us concerning the historyof the several nations, before their conquest by theKomans, will be found in their respective articles;that of the Greek colonies in Southern ltalv, and o 4