OCR Output VOLATERRAE.VOLATERRAE. 1310 able situation oo the summit of a hill, whichrequired a steep ascent of IS stadia from what­ever side it was approached, while the summit itselfa level surface of considerable extent,on all sides by precipices, and crowned bythe walls of the ancient city, (Strab. t. p. 223.)The hill on which it stands is, according to modernmeasurements, more than 17(H) English feet in heightabove the sea, arid completely overlooks all the sur.munding heights, so that the position of the city isextremely commanding. It is indeed themoststrikinginstance of the kind of position which the Etruscansseem to have generally preferred for their cities. There can be no doubt of the great antiquity ofVolaterrae, nor that it was, from the earliestperiod of Etruscan history with which we hare anyacquaintance, one of the twelve principal cities of theEtruscan confederation: this conclusion, to whichwe should be irresistibly led by the still existingproofs of its ancient greatness, is confirmed by theearliest notice of it that we find in history, where itappears as one of the five Etruscan cities whichfurnished support to the Latins in their war withTarquinius Primus. (Dinnys. iii. SI.) But fromthis time we find no subsequent mention of Vola­terrae in history till a much later period. Its re­moteness from Kome will indeed sufficiently accountfor the fact that its name never figures in the longprotracted wars of the Romans with the southernEtruscans ; but even after the Roman arms had beencarried into the heart of Etniria, and the cities ofi'erueia and Arretiom took active part in the wars,we find no mention of Volaterrae. In u c. 298,however, we are told that the Roman consul L. Scipiowas encountered near Volaterrae by the combinedforces of the Etruscans (Liv. x. 12), among whichthere is little doubt that those of the Volatorransthemselves were included, though tins is not ex­pressly stated. But we do not again find their namenoticed in the extant accounts of these wars, and theterms on which they were finally reduced to sub­mission by the Romans are unknown to us. Weham only that in common with most of the Etrus­cans they were received on the footing of dependentallies, and they appear among the "socii" who inthe JSecond Punic War came forward to furnishstippliew for the fleet of Scipio, B.C. 20S. On thatoccasion the Volaterrans provided materials for ship­building as well as corn. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) Fromtliis time we hear no more of Volaterrae till thecivil wars between Mantis and Sulla, when the citye> routed the cause of the former, and from its greatnatural strength became the last stronghold of theMarian party in Etruria, and indeed in Italy. It wasIt-sieged by Sulla himself long after every other cityin Italy bad submitted, snd did not surrender tillafter a siege or rather blockade of two years' du­ration. (Strab. v. p. 223; Liv. lxxxix.; Cic.pro Hot. Amur. 7, pro Care. 7.) As a punish­ment for its obstinacy, its territory was confiscatedby the conqueror; but it appears tliat it was neveractually divided, and the citizens who had survivedthe calamities of the war remained in possession of:heir lands, as well as of the rights of Kounin ci-iieos, which bad been doubtless conferred upon themn common with the other Etruscans by the Lexlulia in ». o. 89. (Cic pro Bom. 30, ad /'am.uii. 4 *.. .-•/ Alt. i. 19.) It appears that anothertte-mjjt waa made to dispossess them by an agrarianaw in the consulship of Cicero, but this calamityi aa averted from them by the efforts of the gteat orator, to whom the citizens in consequence becamewarmly attached (Id. ad Fam. xiii. 4), and it ap­pears probable that Caesar subsequently confirmedthem in the possession both of their lands and mu­nicipal privileges, (/&■) Volaterrae, however, certainly received a colonyunder the Triumvirate {Lib. Col. p. 214), but doesnot appear to have retained the tide of a Colonia: itis expressly included by l'liny among the municipaltowns of Etruria. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 8; l'tol. iii. 1.§ 48.) We find no mention of the name in historyunder the Roman Empire; bnt it is certain that thecity continued to exist; and it appears again, afterthe fall of the Western Empire, as a place of im­portance during the wars of the Goths with Nurses(Agath. B. G. i. 11). It continued to subsistthroughout the middle ages, and still retains thetitle of a city and its episcopal see; though it banlittle more than 4000 inhabitants, and occupies onlya small portion of the area of the ancient city. Thelatter is clearly marked out, having comprised thewhole level surface of the lull, a very irregular space,abore a mile and a half in length and more than1000 yards in its greatest breadth: the whole circuitof the ancient walls is above three miles and a quarter.Very large portions of these walls are still visible, andthese massive fortifications are incontestably thefinest specimens of the kind now existing in Etruria:they resemble in their general style of constructionthose of Faesulae and Cortona, but are composed ofa different material, a soft, arenaceous limestone,which composes the whole summit of the bill onwhich Volttrra stands. This stone, however, likethe macigiio of FiesoU and Cortona, lends itselfreadily to the horizontal structure, and is whollydistinct from the hard Apennine limestone of whichthe polygonal walls of Cosa and other cities are com­posed. These walls may be traced, at intervals, allround the brow of the bill, following the broken andirregular outlines of its summit, and frequently takingadvantage of projecting points to form bold salientangles and outworks. Two of the ancient gates arestill preserved ; of which the one called the I'urta altArco still serves as the principal entrance to the city.It is of very massive construction, but regularly built,and sunnounted by an arch of perfectly regular formand structure, adorned with three sculptured heads,projecting in relief from the keystone and two of theprincipal voussoirs. The antiquity of this arch hasbeen a subji-ct of much dispute among antiquariuns;some maintaining it to be a specimen of genuineEtruscan architecture, others ascribing it to theRoman period. The arguments in favour of thelatter view seem on the whole to prejimderate;though there is no reason to doubt that the Etrus­cans were acquainted with the true principles of theconstruction of the arch. (l>ennis's fjruria, vol. ii.pp. 146—ISO; Alkali, Antichi Ptipoli ItaUnni, vol.iii. pp. 4, S.*) The other gate, on the N. side ofthe Etruscan walls, now known as the J'urta diDiana or J'ortone, is of similar plan and construc­tion to the Porta alt Arco; but the arch is wanting. No other remains of ancient edifices are now ex­tant on the site of Volaterrae, except some portionsof Thermse, of Roman date and little interest; butthe sepulchres which have lieen excavated on all sideaof the city, bnt partirulaily on the N. slope of thehill, have yielded a rich harvest of Etruscan autiqui- * The gate itself is figured by Micali, pi. 7, 8;and by Abekeu, ilittel-Jtalicn, pi. 2, fig. 4. presentedUmrided 4 r 4