OCR Output 366 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. from it; it might assign to the consul a transmarine com­mand of especial importance at the moment, or includean extraordinary military or judicial commission—such asthe command of the fleet or an important criminal inquiry—among the departments to be distributed, and might arrangethe cumulations and prolongations thereby rendered neces­sary. In this case, however, it was simply the definition of therespective consular and praetorian functions on each occasionwhich belonged to the senate, not the designation of the per­sons to assume the particular office; the latter uniformlytook place by agreement among the magistrates concerned orby lot. The burgesses did not interfere in this further, thanthat they were in the earlier period sometimes asked to le­gitimize by special decree of the community the prac­tical prolongation of command that was involved in the non-arrival of relief (i. 326); which, however, was required ratherby the spirit than by the letter of the constitution, and soonfell into oblivion. In the course of the seventh century therewere gradually added to the six special departments alreadyexisting six others, viz. the five new governorships of Mace­donia, Africa, Asia, Narbo, and Cilicia, and the presidency ofthe standing commission respecting exactions (P. 73). Withthe daily extending sphere of action of the Roman govern­ment, moreover, it was a case of more and more frequentoccurrence, that the supreme magistrates were called toundertake extraordinary military or judicial commissions.Nevertheless the number of the ordinary supreme annualmagistrates was not enlarged; and there thus devolved oneight magistrates to be annually nominated—apart fromemergencies — at least twelve special departments to beannually occupied. Of course it was no mere accident,that this deficiency was not covered once for all by thecreation of new praetorships. According to the letter ofthe> constitution all the supreme magistrates were to benominated annually by the burgesses; according to the neworder or rather disorder—under which the vacancies thatarose were filled up mainly by prolonging the term of office,and a second year was as a rule added by the senate to themagistrates legally serving for one year, but might also atdiscretion be refused—the most important and most lucrativeplaces in the state were filled up no longer by the burgesses,but by the senate out of a list of competitors formed by theburgess elections. Since among these positions the trans-