OCR Output S1TACE. 1015 SITONES. M pp. 239, 260, 265, 266, 272, 274; Plin..) According to Pliny tbe Dame Segestica«1 only to the island, and the town was calledwhile Strabo (vii. p. 314) says that Sisciafort in tbe neighbourhood of Segeetica; but if ■ », it must be supposed that subsequentlyit and town became united as one place.. Strab. it. p. 202, v. p. 214, vii. p. 218;i, ffijr. 16, 23. &c.) Siscia was from tbe-troogly fortified town; and after its capture•nu&,in tbe reign of Augustus (Appian, Dion1 ec; Veil. Pat. ii. 113), it became one of the p>ruiit places of Pannouia; for being situ-two navigable rivers, it not only carried on able commerce (Strab. v. pp. 207, 214), butthe central point from which Augustus and i carried on their undertakings against theus and Illy ruins. Tiberius did much tomid embellish tbe town, which as early as m seems to have been made a colonia, forenuons it as such: in the time of Septimiusit received fresh colonists, whence in in- ■ it is called Col. Septimia Siscia. Thertaioad an imperial mint, and the treasuryt was at a later time called the provinceit the same time it was tbe station of the kept so the Savus. Siscia maintainednance until Sinnium began to rise, for inn as Stnnium rose, Siscia sank and declined,loam. ii. 48; Orelli, Itucript. n. 504, 505,074, 3346, 4993.) The modern town ofccapying tbe place of the ancient Siscia,many interesting remains of antiquity.. Iiamlmu, p. 47; Schonwisner, Antiq.; p. 52, folk; Mochar, Norilmm, i. p. [L. S.] CE (Zrrdrn), a large town, first noticed bya (Altai, ii. 4. § 13), situated about 8Si from the Median Wall, and 15 from thend tbe month of the Physcus. The exactw determined, but severalin this neighbourhood, ex-which may perhaps belongitf. (Mannert, v. pt. ii. p. 281; Niebuhr,3; Ives, TravU, <fc p. 133.) [V.]CVS (SrraitOT, A man, fnd. c. 38), a riverto which Nearchus came in his celebratedroyage. It is in all probability the same as•i by Pliny Sitiogagus (vi. 23. s. 26);his statement that, from its month, anaid be made to Pasargada in 7 days, isf erroneous. There is no reason to doubtit present represented by a stream callednam. (Vincent, Koy. of Nearclmt, i. p.Vaville, Mem. de CAcad. xxx. p. 158;ikmde. vii. p. 763.) [V.]iTflA(3i*jH«, Herod, vii. 123; Steph.fiml. x. 66; Hor. Carm. i. 18. 9:tie central of the three prongs which runlie Aegean from the great peninsula of. forming a prolongation to the peakwi or KhoUtmon. The Sithonian penin-, tboagh not so hilly as that of Acte, isrug as Pallene, was the first, it appears,ttd by the Chalcidic colonists. A list ofgiven in Ciiaixidick. [E. B. J.]a place in Hispania Baetica. (Plin. iii. [T. 11. D.]1 • • Ptol. iv. 2. § 34), a town inof Mauretarua Caesariensis, situated in• plain Dot far from the borders of Nuirudia, and on the road from Carthage to Cirtu.(I tin. Ant. pp.24, 29, 31, &c.; comp. Alum. Maiv.xxviii. 6.) At first, uuder the Nuuiidian kings, itwas but an unimportant place: but uuder the Konmndominion it became the frontier town of the newprovince of Numidio, was greatly enlarged and ele­vated to be a colony; so that on the subsequentdivision of Mauretania Caesar, into two smaller pro­vinces it became the capital of Mauretania Sitifeusis.Under the dominion of tbe Vandals, it was thecapital of the district Zabe. (ZdCn, Procop. B.Vand. ii. 20.) It is still called Setifxai lies uponan eminence in a delightful neighbourhood. Seineruins of the ancient town are still to be seen.(Shaw's Travels, p. 49.) [T. H. D.] SI 111.1.1 A, in Gallia, is placed by the Table on aroad from Aquae Bormonis (Bourbon IA rcliambauh)to Pocrinium, supposed to be Perrigni. Sitillia isxvi. from Aquae Bonnonis and xiiii. from PocriniumSitillia is probably a place rawed TieL (D'AnvilleNotice, #c.) [G. L.] SITIOGAGUS. [Sitacls.] S1T0MAGUS, a town of the Iceni or Simeni, inthe E. part of Britannia Komana. (Itin. Ant. p. 480.)Camden (p. 456) identifies it with Thetford'm Nor­folk, whilst others seek it at Stowmarket, SoutlucolJ,and Saxmundliam. In the Tab. Pent it is errone­ously written u Sinomachus." [T. H. D.] SITONES, a population conterminous with theSuiones, from whom they differ only in being governedby a female: "in tanlum non modo a libertate scdetiam a scrvitute degenerant. Hie Sueviae finis.''(Tac. Germ. 45.) The Sitonian locality is some partof Finland; probably the northern half of the coastof the Gulf of Bothnia. The statement that they were under a female nilis explained as follows. The name by which theEast Botbnian Finlanders designate themselves isAatnu-laiset (in the singular Aotnu-lainen). TheSwedes call them Qraene (A'woms). The mediaevalname for tbeir country is Cajan-iiL. Now qvinna inthe Norse language ~ woman, being our wordsqueen and quean I and in the same Norse tongiu;the land of tbe Qcacns would be Cvena-land; as itactually is, being Cwaen-hnd (Queen-land) iuAu^lo-Saxon. Hence the statement of Tacitus arises uutof information concerning a certaiu Ctraen-land,erroneously considered to be a terra feminarum, in­stead of a terra Quaenorum. The reader who thinksthis fanciful should be informed tbat in Adam ofBremen, writing in the 12th century, when the samecountry conies under notice, the same contusionappears, and that in a stronger form. The Sitoniancountry is actually ferra feminarum. More thanthis, the feminae become Amazon*: "circa hatrlitora Ballici maris ferunt ease Amazonat, quodnunc terra feminarum dicitur, quaa aquae gustu aliqui dicunt concipere Hae simul viventes, spernunc consortia virorum, quos etiam, si adveuerint,a se viriliter repellunt," c. 228. (Zeuss, lti»Deutschen, tfv., 9. v. Kieenen.) It is worth noticing that King Alfred's localityof the dcenat is, in respect to their relations to theSciat, exactly that of Tacitus,— Cwwi-land succeed­ing 5eea-land. The Sitones seem to have been the ancient repre­sentatives of the Finns of Finlaud,— tlic Feniii ofthe ancients being the Laps. This is not only whatthe words Sitones and QfoM suggest, but the infer­ence from the word F'enni also. To the Finlaiider,Fin is a strange name. The Swede calls him (fcutn,­ 3 T 4