OCR Output C. II.] EXHORTS THE JEWS. 249 he might not sec the house of God set on fire; on which ac­count he is celebrated among all the Jews in their sacred me­morials, and his memory is become immortal, and will beconveyed fresh down to our posterity through all ages. ThisJohn is an excellent example in such a time of danger; and Idare venture to promise that the Romans shall still forgivothee. And take notice, that I, who make this exhortation tothee, am one of thine own nation ; I, who am a Jew, do makethis promise to thee. And it will become thee to considerwho I am that give thee this counsel, and whence I am de­rived : for while I am alive I shall never be in such slaveryas to forego my own kindred, or forget the laws of our fore­fathers. Thou hast indignation at me again, and makest aclamor at me, and reproachest me ; indeed, I cannot deny butI am worthy of worse treatment than all this amounts to, be­cause, in opposition to fate, I make this kind invitation tothee, and endeavor to force deliverance upon those whom Godhath condemned. And who is there that does not know whatthe writings of the ancient prophets contain in them ? andparticularly that oracle' which is just now going to be fulfilledupon this miserable city ? For they foretold that this cityshould be then taken, when somebody shall begin the slaughterof his own countrymen. And arc not both the city and theentire temple now full of the dead bodies of your countrymen?It is God," therefore, it is God himself, who is bringing onthis fire to purge that city and temple by means of the Ro­mans, and is going to pluck up this city, which is full of yourpollutions." 2. As Josephus spake these words, with groans and tearsin his eyes, his voice was intercepted by sobs. However, theRomans could not but pity the affliction he was under, andwonder at his conduct. But for John and those that were 1 Of this oracle, see the note on B. iv. ch. vi. sect. 3. ' Josephus, both hero and in many places elsewhere, speaks so, that it ismost evident ho was fully satisfied that God was on the Romans' side, andmade use of them now for the destruction of that wicked nation of the Jews,which was, for certain, the true state of this matter, as the prophet Danielfirst and our Savior himself afterwards, had clearly foretold. See Lit. Ac-SompL of I'roph p. 64, &c.