OCR Output CHAP. 28. 'ROMAN HISTORY. 243 CHAP. XXVIII. The consul relieved, the Mqui beat, and obliged to passunder the yoke. JL HE dictator mounting on horseback, rode round theenemy's camp, and examined its form and extent withall the minuteness the night would admit; he then or足dered the tribunes to cause the baggage' to be heaped upin one place, and the soldiers to return with their armsand stakes into their ranks; all which was instantly com足plied with. He made his army extend itself aroundtheir camp, in the same good order as they had marched,with orders to throw up a ditch, and fortify it with pali-sadoes, and the moment the signal should be given, toset up a. great shout all together. They waited not longfor the signal, and executed the orders with the utmostpunctuality. The cry was heard round the enemy onall si'les, and beyond the camp of the jEqui, soon reach足ed the consul's camp, where it spread confidence and joy,whilst it filled the /Kqui with consternation and terror. The consul's army, when they heard the shouts oftheir fellow citizens, congratulated each other; and as足sured that relief was at hand, threatened the enemy withtheir advanced.and picquet-guards. "There is now notime to be lost," cried the consul; " the shout we havebeard, has not only announced the arrival of ourfriends, but that they are already engaged with theenemy. Nay, it would be matter of wonder, if theenemy's lines are not already attacked on the outside.To arms, therefore, to arms, and follow me soldiers."Out sallied the legions in the night to the attack, andtheir shouts informed the dictator, that the enemy hadalso hot work on the inside. The .SLqui were just going to interrupt the works thedictator ha.I begun, to prevent their being surrounded,when the alarm from the other side, obliged them to turnthe. best part of their strength that way, lest they shouldopen a way through the heart of their camp; and leavethe dictator at liberty, for the rest of the night, to go onwith his works.