OCR Output CHAP. 46. ROMAN HISTORY. 269 - ditious persons, that they will find resolution in a de­cemvir and legislator, to inforce his own decrees. Norshall I have occasion for my colleague's lictors, myown will be sufficient, to chastise the insolence of theturbulent and seditious." The time for perpetrating this act of villainy beingthus put off, and the counsel for the defendant retired,they first of atl resolved, instantly to dispatch Icilius,brother ami Numitorius' son, two active young men, tothe gates, to bring Virginius from the camp 'vith allexpedition, for the preservation of his daughter depend­ed entirely-upon his being present exactly at the ap­pointed time. They set out as directed, and posting itall the way, carried the news to Viginius. In the mean time, the plaintiff insisted, that Iciliusshould give security for producing her in court. Iciliustold him, that he was just then about it, designedlyspinning out the time, till the messengers dispatched toVirginius had made some progress in their journey; thepeople all around held up their hands, every one otter­ing eagerly to be surety for Icrlius. Touched with theaftection of his fellow-citizens, Icilius burst into tears,while he returned them thanks. "To-morrow," saidhe, "I will make use of your assistance; to-day we have"abundance of securities." Thus was Virginia set atliberty, her relations having given bail to present her.Appius, to avoid suspicion, that he had sat in judgmenton account of this cause alone, did not leave his tribunaldirectly; but as no other cause was called, Virginia hav­ing so much engrossed the public attention, that nobodyapplied to him; he returned home, and wrote to hiscolleague in the camp, intreating, " They would give"no leave of absence to Virginius, but on the contrary,"lay him under arrest." This wicked advice, deservedly came too late; for,Virginius having obtained a furlough, had set out by thefirst watch in the night, whereas the letters for detain­ing him, were only delivered next morning early, whenhe was out of their reach.