OCR Output 28 THE A>'NAL8 [A. U. C. 767. mented that by their crimes they had called downupon themselves the indignation of the gods. Rrususlook advantage of the moment. The opportunity wasthe effect of chance; but, rightly managed, mightconduce to the wisest purpose. He gave orders that the men who by honest meanswere most in credit with the malcontents, should goround from tent to tent. Among these was Clemens,the centurion. They visited every part of the camp;they applied to the guards on duty; they conversedwith the patrole, and mixed with the sentinels at thegates. They allured some by promises, and by ter­ror subdued the spirit of others. "How long shall" we besiege the son of the emperor? Where will this"confusion end? Must we follow Percennius and Vi-" bulenus ? And shall we swear fidelity to those new"commanders? Will their funds supply the pay of"the legions? Have they lands to assign to the vete-" ran soldier? For them shall the Neros and the"Drusi be deposed? Are they to mount the vacant" throne, the future sovereigns of Rome ? Let us," since we were the last to enter into rebellion, be the"first to expiate our guilt by well-timed repentance." Demands in favour of all, proceed but slowly; to" individuals, indulgence is more easily granted; de-" serve it separately, and the reward will follow."This reasoning had its effect: suspicion and mutualdistrust began to take place; the new raised soldierswent apart from the veterans; the legions separated ;a sense of duty revived in the breast of all; the gateswere no longer guarded; and the colours, at first pro­miscuously crowded together, were restored to theirproper station. XXIX. At the return of day, Drusus called an as­sembly of the soldiers. Though unused to publicspeaking, he delivered himself with the eloquence ofa man who felt his own importance, and the dignityof his rank. He condemned the past, and applaudedthe present. It was not, he said, a part of his charac­ter to yield to menaces, or to shrink from danger. Iflie saw them penitent, if he heard the languago of re­morse, he would make a report in their favour, and