OCR Output 316 THE JELOPONNES1AN WAR. confederates, with a number of ships little more than thirty,were forced to engage in the evening of the day, the disputebeginning about a vessel that was passing through. Theystood away to oppose sixteen sail of Athenians and eight ofRhegians. They were worsted by the Athenians ; but eachside separated in hurry and confusion, just as they could, totheir several stations at Messene and Rhegium. They lostone ship in this action, which was stopped by the sudden ap­proach of night. But after this, the Locrians evacuated the territory ofRhegium, and the whole collected fleet of the Syracusansand confederates took a new station at Peloris of Messene,and their whole land-force attended. The Athenians andRhegians sailing up to their station, and finding none atpresent on board the ships, rushed in amongst them. Yetthey lost one of their own vessels by the force of a grapplingiron fastened upon it, the crew of which was saved byswimming. Immediately after this the Syracusans got onboard, and being towed along the shore towards Messene,the Athenians came up again to attack them ; but, the enemy-running oft' into the deep and giving the first charge, theylose another of their ships. Though continuing to be towedalong the shore, and to charge in this manner, yet the Syra­cusans, without suffering any loss, got safe into the harbourof Messene. And now the Athenians, having received intel­ligence that Camarina was betrayed to the Syracusans by Ar-chias and his accomplices, stood away for that place. In the mean while the Messenians, with their whole forceby land, and accompanied by their ships, marched awayagainst Chalcidic Naxus, which /bordered upon their ownterritory. The first day they force the Naxians to shelterthemselves behind their walls, and then they plundered thecountry. The day following, sailing up the river Acesine,they plundered along the shore, and with their land-forcemade an assault upon the city. The Siculi, who live uponthe mountains, were now pouring down in numbers to repel