OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 22X to the Greeks aud Romans the siege of Troy. On a narrow baÆsof acknowledged truth, an immense but rude superstructure of fablehas been erected; and the wild Irishman", as well as the wildTartar '4, could point out the individual son of Japhet, from whoseloins his ancestors were lineally descended. The last centuryabounded with antiquarians of profound learning and easy faith,who, by the dim light of legends and traditions, of conjecture*and etymologies, led the great-grandchildren of Noah from theTower of Babel to the extremities of the globe. Of these judicious-critics, one of the most entertaining was Olaus Rudbeck, professorin the university of Upsal ". Whatever is celebrated either in his­tory or fable, this zealous patriot ascribes to his country. FromSweden (which formed so considerable a part of ancient Germany)the Greeks themselves derived their alphabetical characters, theirastronomy, and their religion. Of that delightful region (for suchit appeared to the eye» of a native) the Atlantis of Plato, the coun­try of the Hyperboreans, the gardens of the Hesperides, the For­tunate Iflands, and even the Elysian Fields, were all but faint andimperfect transcripts. A clime so profusely favoured by Nature,,could not long remain desert after the flood. The learned Rudbeckallows the family of Noah a few years to multiply from eight to>about twenty thousand persons. He then disperses them into smallcolonies to replenish the earth, and to propagate the human species.The German or Swedilh detachment (which marched, if I am notmistaken, under the command of Astcenaz the son of Gomer, theson of" Japhet) distinguistied itself by a more than common dili­gence in the prosecution of this great work. The northern hivecast its swarms over the greatest part of Europe, Africa, and Asia;and (to use the author's metaphor) the blood circulated back fromthe extremities to the heart. But all this well-laboured system of German antiquities is anni- The Germans,Dilated by a single fact, too well attested to admit of any doubt, Utters."' °8 • and.