OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 199 they not only prevented the Romans from marchingforward jnto their country, but even from procuringforage from their lands ; and the foragers were obligedto go back into the quiet country of Sora. News ofthese events being conveyed to Rome, with circum­stances of alarm magnified beyond the truth, LuciusPostumius, the consul, though scarcely recovered fromhis illness, was obliged to set out for the army. How­ever, before his departure, having issued a proclama­tion that his troops should assemble at Sora, he dedi­cated the temple of Victory, for the building of whichhe had provided, when curule edile, out of the moneyarising from fines; and, joining the army, he advancedfrom Sora towards Samnium, to the camp of his col­league. The Samnites, despairing of being able tomake head against the two armies, retreated fromthence, on which the consuls, separating, proceededby different routes to lay waste the enemy's lands, andbesiege their towns. 34. Postumius attempted to make himself master ofMilionia by storm ; but not succeeding with regularworks, he carried his approaches to the walls, andthus gained an entrance into the place. The fight wascontinued in all parts of the city from the fourth houruntil near the eighth, and for a great part of the timewithout any decisive advantage: the Romans at lastgained possession of it. Three thousand two hundredof the Samnites were killed, four thousand two hun­dred taken, besides the other booty. From thencethe legions were conducted to Ferentinum, out ofwhich the inhabitants had, during the night, retired insilence through the opposite gate, with all their effectswhich could be either carried or driven. The consul,on his arrival, approached the walls with the same or­der and circumspection as if he were to meet an oppo­sition here equal to what he had experienced at Mili­onia. The troops, perceiving a dead silence in thecity, and neither arms nor men on the towers and ram­parts, were eager to mount the deserted fortifications;out he restrained them, lest they might fall into a