OCR Output LIVY. toriaos—that hardly ever was any general seen in thefield with a more cheerful countenance ; whether thiswas owing to his natural temper or to his confidenceof success. From the same firmness of mind it pro­ceeded that he did not suffer himself to be divertedfrom the war by the dispute about the auspices; andthat, in the heat of the battle, when it was customaryto vow temples to the immortal gods, he vowed to Jo-piter the victorious, that if he should defeat the le­gions of the enemy, he would, before he tasted of anygenerous liquor, make a libation to him of a cup ofwine and hoaey. This kind of vow proved acceptableto the gods, and they conducted the auspices to a for­tunate issue. 43. Like success attended the operations of the otherconsul at Cominium : leading up his forces to the wallsat the first dawn, he invested the city on every sideiand posted strong guards opposite to the gates to pre­vent any sally being made. Just as he was giving thesignal, the alarming message from his colleague, touch­ing the march of the twenty Samnite cohorts, not onlycaused him to delay the assault, but obliged him to calloff a part of his troops when they were formed andready to begin the attack. He ordered Decjus Bru­tus Scaeva, a lieutenant-general, with the first legion,twenty auxiliary cohorts, and the cavalry, to go andoppose the said detachment; and in whatever place heshould meet the foe, there to stop and detain them,and even to engage in battle, should opportunity offerfor it: at all events, not to suffer those troops to ap­proach Cominium. He then commanded the scaling-ladders to be bronght up to the walls on every side ofthe city ; and, under a fence of closed shields, advancedto the gates. Thus, at the same moment, the gateswere broken open, and the assault made on every partof the rampart. Though the Samnites, before theysaw the assailants on the works, had possessed courageenough to oppose their approaches to the city, yet now,when the action was no longer carried on at a distance,nor with missile weapons, hut in close fight; and when