OCR Output CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. 183 the Romans could boast of no great advantage, yet thatengagement gave them new spirit, and encouraged themto behave better in every future action. A. Virginius and Sp. Servilius, succeeded as consuls;after the check the Vejentes received in the last engage­ment, they declined coming to another: But they plunder­ed the country; and from the fort Janiculum, they madeincursions upon the Roman lands all around. Neitherthe farmers, nor their cattle, were any where safe. Butthey were at last taken in the same trap they had laidfor the Fabii: For, pursuing some cattle, which had beensent out on purpose to decoy them, they fell headlonginto the ambuscade; their numbers only served to in­crease the slaughter. Their extravagant resentment for.this loss, laid the foundation of a much greater: For,passing the Tiber in the night, they attempted to stormthe camp of Servilius the consul. But there they metwith so warm a reception, that after a prodigious slaugh­ter, with great difficulty they got back to the Janiculum. The consul immediately crossed the river, and fortifiedhis camp at the foot of the hill. F^rly next morning, akittle flushed with success the day before, or ratherimpelled by the want of provisions, to take the shortestcourse, however dangerous, to procure them, he incon­siderately led his army up the hill to the enemy's camp,where he received a more shameful repulse, than he hadgiven the day before: But his colleague came up andsaved both him and his army. Between the two armies,a dreadful havock was made among the Etrurians, asthey were endeavouring to escape, first from the one,and then from the other. Thus by a fortunate impru­dent step, the war with the Vejentes got a finishingstroke. U. CHAP. Lll. Trial of Menqnius and Servilius. 'PON the return oF peace, provisions became cheaperin the city; for they had corn from Campania: andthere being now no apprehensions of future scarcity,the citizens brought out what they had concealed and