OCR Output AN. 591.] 369 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. punished; and this was the condition he wasin for some time, while he suffered unjustlywhat I have already described. In the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah,on the tenth day of the tenth month, the kingof Babylon made a second expedition againstJerusalem, and lay before it eighteen months,and besieged it with the utmost application.*There came upon them also two of thegreatest calamities, at the same time thatJerusalem was besieged; a famine and pes­tilential distemper, and made great havockamong them. And though the prophet Jere­miah was in prison, he did not rest, but pro­claimed aloud, and exhorted the multitudeto open their gates, and admit the king ofBabylon: for that if they did so, they shouldbe preserved, and their whole families; but ifthey did not do so they should be destroyed.And he foretold that if any one staid in thecity, he should certainly perish by the fa­mine, or by the enemies' sword: but that ifhe would flee to the enemy he would escapedeath. Yet did not these rulers that heardhim believe him, even when they were inthe midst of their sore calamities; but theycame to the king, and, in their anger, in­formed him of what Jeremiah said, and ac­cused him, and complained of the prophet,as of a madman, and one that disheartenedtheir minds; and by the denunciation ofmiseries, weakened the alacrity of the mul­titude, who were otherwise ready to exposethemselves to danger for him, and for theircountry; while he, in a way of threatening,warned them to flee to the enemy: and toldthem that the city should certainly be taken,and utterly destroyed. - But for the king himself, he was not at allirritated against Jeremiah: such was hisgentle and righteous disposition. Yet thathe might not be engaged in a quarrel withthose rulers, at such a time, by opposingwhat they intended, he let them do with theprophet whatsoever they would. Where­upon, when the king had granted them sucha permission, they presently came into theprison, and took him, and let him down witha cord into a pit full of mire, that he mightbe suffocated, and die of himself. So hestood up to the neck in the mire, which was all about him, and so continued. But therewas one of the king's servants, who was inesteem with him, an Ethiopian by descent;who told the king what a state the prophetwas in, and said that his friends and hisrulers had done evil in putting the prophetinto the mire, and by that means contrivingagainst him, that he should suffer a deathmore bitter than by his bonds only. Whenthe king heard this, he repented of hishaving delivered up the prophet to therulers, and bade the Ethiopian take thirtymen of the king's guards, and cords withthem, and whatsoever else they understoodto be necessary for the prophet's preserva­tion; and to draw him up immediately. Sothe Ethiopian took the men he was orderedto take, and drew up the prophet out of themire, and left him in the prison.f But when the king had sent to call himprivately, and inquired what he could sayto him from God, which might be suitable tohis present circumstances, and desired himto inform him of it; Jeremiah replied, hehad somewhat to say; but that he shouldnot be believed, nor if he admonished him,should he be hearkened to. "For," said he,"thy friends have determined to destroy me,as though I had been guilty of some wicked­ness. And where are now those men thatdeceived us, and said that the king of Baby­lon would not come and fight against us anymore? But I am afraid now to speak thetruth; lest thou shouldst condemn me todie." And when the king had assured himupon oath that he would neither himself puthim to death, nor deliver him up to therulers, he became bold upon that assurance,and gave him this advice: that he shoulddeliver the city up to the Babylonians: andhe said, that it was God that prophesied thisby him, that he must do so, if he would bepreserved, and escape out of the danger hewas in; and that then neither should the cityfall to the ground, nor should the temple beburned; but if he disobeyed, he would bethe cause of these miseries coming upon thecitizens, and of the calamity that would be­fall his whole house. When the king heardthis, he said, he would willingly do what hepersuaded him to, and what he declared * 2 Kings xxv. J. t Jeremiah xxviii. 13.