OCR Output 320 THE DECLINE AND FALL He marchesinto the East,and is assassi­nated. A. D. 274.Oaober. of a citizen, chastised by military execution the flighted offences,and transferred the stern discipline of the camp into the civil admi­nistration of the laws. His love of justice often became a blindand furious passion; and whenever he deemed his own or thepublic safety endangered, he disregarded the rules of evidence, andthe proportion of punishments. The unprovoked rebellion withwhich the Romans rewarded his services, exasperated his haughty spirit.The noblest families of the capital were involved in the guilt orsuspicion of this dark conspiracy. A hasty spirit of revenge urgedthe bloody prosecution, and it proved fatal to one of the nephews .of the emperor. The executioners were fatigued, the prisonscrowded, and the unhappy senate lamented the death or absence ofits most illustrious members 9!. Nor was the pride of Aurelian lessoffensive to that assembly than his cruelty. Ignorant or impatientof the restraints of civil institutions, he disdained to hold his powerby any other title than that of the sword, and governed by right ofconquest an empire which he had saved and subdued 9+. It was observed by one of the most sagacious of the Romanprinces, that the talents of his predecessor Aurelian, were bettersuited to the command of an army, than to the government of anempire95. Conscious of the character in which Nature and expe­rience had enabled him to excel, he again took the field a fewmonths after his triumph. It was expedient to exercise the restlesstemper of the legions in some foreign war, and the Persian monarch,exulting in the shame of Valerian, still braved with impunity theoffended majesty of Rome. At the head of an army, less formidableby its numbers than by its discipline and valour, the emperor ad­vanced as far as the Streights which divide Europe from Asia. Hethere experienced, that the most absolute power is a weak defence a-gainst the effects of despair. He had threatened one of his secretaries whowas accused of extortion; and it was known that he seldom threat­ened in vain. The last hope which remained for the criminal, was to