OCR Output 404 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. obliged to retire to the confines of Egypt, where he XL. waited five years for the promised succours of thecaliph. The Saracens were then successful, after abloody and destructive warfare, in which many citieswere burnt, and a fertile and populous garden waschanged into a desert: the royal prophetess was slainin battle; and the religion of Mahomet, and the do­minion of his successors, were established, from Arabiato the Atlantic Ocean. Musa, who at that time com­manded the army of the caliph, was now becomemaster of the whole of the north of Africa, with theexception of a small portion 'of Mauritania, and thetown of Ceuta, which was at that time, as it is at pre­sent, in the hands of the Spaniards. This importantfortress was surrendered to the Saracens by thetreachery of count Julian, who was the governor;and by the invitation of the same person, Musa wasConquest induced to attempt the conquest of Spain. The firsto^pam, jan(jing on the Peninsula was at Tariffa, in the month713- of July, 710, which still bears the name of the officer who commanded the detachment. The followingspring, Tarik, a lieutenant of Musa, landed at Gib­raltar with a powerful army: Roderic, the last kingof the Goths, was defeated in a decisive battle atXeres, and perished in the waters of the Guadal-quiver. Musa then passed into Spain, and the dominionof the Saracens was in a short time extended to thePyrenean mountains*. But the conquest of Spain was considered by Musaonly the footstep to the monarchy of Europe. Hewas preparing to extinguish in Gaul and Italy thedeclining kingdoms of the Franks and Lombards, to * The fall and resurrection of the Gothic monarchy are related by Mariana(tom. i. p. 238—260,1. vi. c. 19—26,1. vii. c. I, 2). That historian has infusedinto his noble work (Historiae de Rebus Hispanice, lib. xxx. Hagae Comitum,1733, in four volumes in folio, with the continuation of Miniana) the style andspirit of a Roman classic; and after the twelfth century, his knowledge andjudgment may be safely trusted.