OCR Output ax. 453.] 407 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now when Mordecai was informed of whatwas done, he rent his clothes, and put onsackcloth, and sprinkled ashes upon his head,and went about the city,* crying out, that anation that had been injurious to no man, wasto be destroyed. And he went on saying thusas far as to the king's palace, and there hestood. For it was not lawful for him to gointo it, in that habit. The same thing wasdone by all the Jews that were in the severalcities, wherein this decree was published;with lamentation and mourning, on accountof the calamities denounced against them.But as soon as certain persons had told thequeen, that Mordecai stood before the courtin a mourning habit, she was disturbed at thisreport; and sent out such as should changehis garments. But when he could not be in­duced to put off his sackcloth, because the sadoccasion that forced him to put it on was notyet ceased; she called the eunuch Aeratheus,for he was then present; and sent him toMordecai, in order to learn what sad acci­dent had befallen him, for which he was inmourning, and would not put off that habit,at her desire. Then did Mordecai inform theeunuch of the occasion of his mourning, andof the decree which was sent by the king intoall the country, and of the promise of moneywhereby Haman bought the destruction oftheir nation. He also gave him a copy of what was proclaimed at Shushan, to be car­ried to Esther: and he charged her to petitionthe king about this matter, and not to think ita dishonourable thing in her to put on a hum­ble habit, for the safety of her nation: whereinshe might deprecate the ruin of the Jews,who were in danger of it. For that Haman,whose dignity was only inferior to that of theking, had accused the Jews, and had irritatedthe king against them. When she was in­formed of this, she sent to Mordecai again, andtold him that she was not called by the king,and that he who should presume to go in tohim without being called, would certainly beslain;f unless it happened that the king heldout his golden sceptre to him; in which casealone he could obtain pardon, and be entirelypreserved. Now when the eunuch carriedthis message from Esther to Mordecai, hebade him tell her, that she must not only pro­vide for her own safety, but for the commonpreservation of her nation. For that if shenow neglected this opportunity, there wouldcertainly arise help to them from God someother way; but she and her father's housewould be destroyed by those whom she nowdespised. But Esther sent the same eunuchback to Mordecai, to desire him to go to Shu­shan, and to gather the Jews that were theretogether to a congregation; and to fast, andto abstain from all sorts of food on her ac­ shan, might be concerned at this horrid decree, eitherbecause they were related to them, or engaged with themin worldly concerns, or perhaps out of mere humanity andcompassion to so vast a number of innocent people, nowappointed as sheep for the slaughter. They might ap­prehend likewise, that upon the execution of the decree,some sedition or tumult might ensue; that, in so great aslaughter, it was hard to tell, who would escape withoutoeing killed or plundered, because those who were em­ployed in this bloody work would be more mindful toenrich themselves than to observe their orders. Pool't An­notations, and Patrick's and Le Clerc's Commentaries. B. * The latter Targum, upon the book of Esther, givesus this account of Mordecai's behaviour upon this sadoccasion, viz. that in the midst of the streets he made hiscomplaint, saying, What a heavy decree is this, which theking and Haman have passed, not against a part of us butagainst us all, to root us out of the earth! Whereupon allthe Jews flocked about him, and having caused the bookof the law to be brought to the gate of Shushan, he, beingcovered with sackcloth, read therein these words out ofDeut. iv. 30, 31. "When thou art in tribulation, and allthese things are come upon thee, in the latter days, if thouturn to the Lord thy God, and shalt be obedient to hisvoice, (for the Lord thy God is a merciful God,) he willnot forsake thee, nor destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers, which he sware unto them:" After which heexhorted them to fasting, humiliation, and repentance, ac­cording to the example of the Ninevites. Patrick's Com. B.t Ever since the reign of Dejoces king of Media,Herodotus, lib. I. informs, that, for the preservation ofroyal majesty, it was enacted, "That no one should beadmitted into the king's presence; but that, if he hadany business with him, he should transact it by the inter­course of his ministers." The custom passed from theMedes to the Persians; and therefore we find it in thesame historian, lib. 3. that after the seven Persian princeshad killed the Magian, who had usurped the throne,they came to this agreement, that whoever should beelected king, should allow the others to have at all timesa ready access to his presence, which is an implication,that they had it not before, whenever they should desireit, except only when he was accompanied with any ofhis wives. This, therefore, was the ancient law of thecountry, and not procured by Haman, as some imagine;though it cannot be denied, but that the reason of the lawat first might be, not only the preservation of the majestyand safety of the king's person, but a contrivance likewiseof the great officers of state, that they might engross theking to themselves, by allowing admittance to none butwhom they should think proper to introduce. Pool'sAnnotations, and Le Clerc's Commentary. B,