OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 377 as favourable to the operations of infantry, as it was inconvenientfor the motions of cavalry 7°. Adversity had confirmed the Ro­man discipline, whilst the barbarians, elated by success, were become His victoryso negligent and remiss, that in the moment when they least ex­pected it, they were surprised by the active conduct of Galerius>who, attended only by two horsemen, had with his own eyes secretlyexamined the state and position of their camp. A surprise, especiallyin the night-time, was for the most part fatal to a Persian army.Their horses were tied, and generally shackled, to prevent their run­ning away ; and if an alarm happened, a Persian had his housing to«* fix, his horse to bridle, and his corflet to put on, before he could"mount 7V On the occasion, the impetuous attack of Galeriusspread disorder and dismay over the camp of the barbarians. Aflight resistance was followed by a dreadful carnage, and in thegeneral confusion, the wounded monarch (for Narses commandedhis armies in person) fled towards the deserts of Media. Hissumptuous tents, and those of his Satraps, afforded an immensebooty to the conqueror; and an incident is mentioned, whichproves the rustic but martial ignorance of the legions in the elegantsuperfluities of life. A bag of shining leather silled with pearls,fell into the hands of a private soldier; he carefully preserved thebag, but he threw away its contents, judging, that whatever was ofno use could not possibly be of any value 7\ The principal loss £^5"of Narses was of a much more affecting nature. Several of his "P"*"-wives, his sisters, and children, who had attended the army, weremade captives in the defeat. But though the character of Ga~lerius had ip general very little affinity with that of Alexander,he imitated, after his victory, the amiable behaviour of the Ma­cedonian towards the family of Darius. The wives and childrenof Narses were protected from violence and rapine, conveyedto a place of safety, and treated with every mark of respect andVol. I. C c c tenderness,