OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 177 time an attack was directed from Macedonia against theScordisci, who had, it may be presumed, made common causewith the assailed inhabitants of the coast. Soon afterwards(625) the consul Tuditanus in connection with the able 129.Decimus Brutus, the conqueror of the Spanish Gallaeci,humbled the Japydes, and, after sustaining a defeat atthe outset, at length carried the Roman arms into the heartof Dalmatia as far as the river Kerka, 115 miles distant fromAquileia; the Japydes thenceforth appear as a nation atpeace and on friendly terms with Rome. But ten yearslater (635) the Dalmatians rose afresh, once more in concert 119.with the Scordisci. While the consul Lucius Cotta foughtagainst the latter and in doing so advanced apparently asfar as Segestica, his colleague Lucius Metellus afterwardsnamed Dalmaticus, the elder brother of the conqueror ofNumidia, marched against the Dalmatians, conquered themand passed the winter in Salona (Spalato), which town hence­forth appears as the chief stronghold of the Romans in thatregion.' It is not improbable that the construction of theVia Gabijiia, which led from Salona in an easterly directionto Andetrium (Clissa) and thence farther into the interior,falls within this period. The expedition of the consul of 639, Marcus ^Emilius The [115.Scaurus, against the Taurisci* presented more the character Komansof a war of conquest. He was the first of the Romans to cross cross tnethe chain of the eastern Alps at their lowest elevation be- A)tween Trieste and Laybach, and contracted hospitable rela­tions with the Taurisci; which secured a not unimportantcommercial intercourse without involving the Romans, as aformal subjugation would have involved them, in the com­motions of the peoples to the north of the Alps. The at­tacks about the same time directed from Macedonia towardsthe Danube yielded at first a very unfavourable result: theconsul of 640, Gaius Porcius Cato, was surprised in the 114.Servian mountains by the Scordisci, and his army completelydestroyed, while he himself, with a few attendants, disgrace­fully fled. With difficulty the praetor Marcus Didius pro­tected the Roman frontier. His successors fought with and reachbetter fortune, Gaius Metellus Caprarius (641, 642), Marcus the Danube.Livius Drusus (642, 643), the first Roman general who !{.^I?n' * They are called in the Triumphal Kasti Oalli Kami; and in Victor Li-gures Taurisci (for such should be the reading instead of the received Iiigureset Caurisci). VOL. 111. N