OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 337 in order to take possession of the defiles, and preventthe enemy from making their way, where the roads areconfined in narrow straits. There, with much labor,he fortified some places with a rampart, others with atrench, others with stones heaped up, instead of walls,others with trees laid across, according as the situationrequired, or as materials lay convenient; and thus aroad, in its own nature difficult, he rendered, as heimagined, impregnable by the works which he drewacross every pass. The adjoining ground, being mostlycovered with woods, was exceedingly incommodious tothe phalanx of the Macedonians, which is of no mannerof use except when they extend their very long spearsbefore their shields, forming as it were a pallisade; toperform which they require an open plain. The Thra-cians, too, were embarrassed by their lances, whichalso are of a great length, and were entangled amongthe branches that stood in their way on every side.The body of Cretans alone was not unserviceable; andyet even these, though in case of an attack made onthem, they could to good purpose discharge their ar­rows against the horses or riders, where they wereopen to a wound, yet against the Roman shields theycould do nothing, because they had neither strengthsufficient to pierce through them, nor was there anypart exposed at which they could aim. Perceiving,therefore, that kind of weapon to be useless, they an­noyed the enemy with stones, which lay in plenty inall parts of the valley: the strokes made by these ontheir shields, with greater noise than injury, for a shorttime retarded the advance of the Romans ; but quicklylearning to despise these weapons also, some closingtheir shields in form of a tortoise, forced their waythrough the enemy in front; others having, by a shortcircuit, gained the summit of the hill, dislodged thedismayed Macedonians from their guards and posts,and even slew the greater part of them, the difficultiesof the ground preventing their escape. 40. Thus, with less opposition than they had ex­pected to meet, they passed the defiles, and came to LIV. VOL. V. Y