OCR Output 504 [book xiy. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. but were defeated in the battle, and put toflight. About five thousand were slain onthis occasion, and the rest being dispersed,tried, as well as they were able, to save them­selves. However, Arislobulus had with himstill above a thousand men; and with themhe fled to Macherus, and fortified the place:and though he had had ill success, he stillhad some hope of his affairs. But when hehad struggled against the siege for two days'time, and had received many wounds, he wasbrought as a captive to Gabinius, with hisson Antigonus; who also fled with him fromRome. And this was the fortune of Aristo-bulus, who was sent back again to Rome;and was there retained in bonds; havingbeen both king and high-priest for threeyears, and six months; and was indeed aneminent person, and one of a great soul.However, the senate let his children go;upon Gabinius's writing to them, that hepromised their mother so much, when shedelivered up the fortresses to him. And ac­cordingly they returned into Judea. Now when Gabinius was making an expc'dition against the Parthians, and had alreadypassed over Euphrates, he changed his mind,and resolved to return into Egypt; in orderto *restore Ptolemy to his kingdom. Anti-pater supplied his army, which he sent againstArchelaus, with corn, and weapons, andmoney. He also made those Jews, who wereabove Pelusium, his friends and confederates;and had been the guardians of the passesthat led into Egypt. But when he came backout of Egypt, he found Syria in disorder withseditions and troubles; for Alexander, theson of Aristobulus, having seized on the go­vernment a second time by force, made manyJews revolt to him; and so he marched overthe country with a great army, and slew allthe Romans he could meet with; and pro­ceeded to besiege the mountain called Geriz-zim, whither they had retreated. But when Gabinius found Syria in such astate, he sent Anti pater, who was a prudentman, to those that were seditious; to trywhether he could cure them of their madness,and persuade them to return to a bettermind. And when he came to them, he in- * This history is best illustrated by Dr. Hudson out ofLivy, Epit. cv. who says, that " A. Gabinius, the procon­sul, restored Ptolemy to his kingdom of Egypt; and duced many of them to do what they ought.But he could not restrain Alexander: for hehad an army of thirty thousand Jews, andmet Gabinius; and joining battle with himwas beaten, and lost ten thousand of his menabout mount Tabor. So Gabinius settled the affairs which be­longed to the city Jerusalem, as was agree­able to Antipater's inclination; and" wentagainst the Nabateans, and overcame themin battle. He also sent away in a friendlymanner Mithridates and Orsanes, who wereParthian deserters, and came to him; thoughthe report went abroad, that they had runaway from him. And when Gabinius hadperformed great and glorious actions, in hismanagement of the affairs of war, he returnedto Rome and delivered the government toCrassus. Now Nicolaus of Damascus, andStrabo of Cappadocia, both describe the ex­peditions of rompey and Gabinius against theJews: while neither of them say any thingnew, which is not in the other. CHAP. VII. OF THE PILLAGING OF THE TEMPLE BY CRASSUS, PREVIOUSTO HIS EXPEDITION AGAINST THE PARTHIANS; IN WHICHHE PERISHED WITH HIS ARMY; OF THE EXPLOITS OFCASSIUS; AND OF THE DEATH OF ARISTOBULUS AND HISSON ALEXANDER. NOW fCrassus, as he was going upon hisexpedition against the Parthians, cameupon Judea, and carried off the money thatwas in the temple, which Pompey had left;being two thousand talents; and was dis­posed to spoil it of all the gold belonging toit, which was eight thousand talents. Healso took a beam which was made of solidbeaten gold, of the weight of three hundredminse; each of which weighed two poundsand a half. It was the priest who was guar­dian of the sacred treasures, and whose namewas Eleazar, that gave him this beam; notout of a wicked design, for he was a goodand a righteous man; but being intrustedwith the custody of the veils belonging to thetemple, which were of admirable beauty, andof very costly workmanship, and hung clownfrom this beam, when he saw that Crassus ejected Archelaus, whom they had set up for king," fee.See Prideaux, at the years 64 and 65.t An. 54 B. C.