OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35^ tribunal, and raising his eyes towards the Sun, made a solemn pro­fession of his own innocence, in the presence of that all-seeingDeity ,o6. Then, assuming the tone of a sovereign and a judge, hecommanded that Aper should be brought in chains to the foot of thetribunal. "This .man," said he, "is the murderer of Numerian;"and, without giving him time to enter on a dangerous justification,drew his sword, and buried it in the breast of the unfortunate præfect.A charge supported by such decisive proof, was admitted withoutcontradiction, and the legions, with repeated acclamations, acknow­ledged the justice and authority of the emperor Diocletian '°7. Before we enter upon the memorable reign of that prince, it will JjJ^'i8*be proper to punish and dismiss the unworthy brother of Numerian. Carinus..Carinus possessed arms and treasures sufficient to support his legaltitle to the empire. But his personal vices overbalanced everyadvantage of birth and situation. The most faithful servants of thefather despised the incapacity, and dreaded the cruel arrogance, of theion. The hearts of the people were engaged in favour 9s his rivaj,and /even the senate was inclined to prefer an usurper to a tyrant.The arts of Diocletian .inflamed the general .discontent; and thewinter was employed in secret intrigues, and open preparations-for acivil war, In the spring, the forces of the EajR: ^and of the \^ejr. *• l8S*encountered each other in the plains of Margus, a small city ofMæsia, in the neighbourhood of the Danube ,o8. , The .troops, solately returned from the Persian war, had acquired their glory atthe expence of health and numbers, nor were they in a condition tocontend with the unexhausted strength of ,the legions of Europe,Their ranks were broken, and, for a moment, .Diocletian.despairedof the purple and of life. But the advantage which Carinushad obtained by the valour of his soldiers, he quickly lost iby theinfidelity of his officers. A Tribune, whose wife he ,had seduced,seized the opportunity of revenge, and by a single blow extin­guished civil discord in -the blood of the adulterer ,u9. Z z 2 CHAP.