OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 79 Titus Antoninus Pius has been justly denominated a second Numa. Charactcr J 4 and reign of The same love of religion, justice, and peace, was the distinguishing Pws.characteristic of both princes. But the situation of the latter openeda much larger field for the exercise of those virtues. Numa couldonly prevent a few neighbouring villages from plundering eachother's harvests. Antoninus diffused order and tranquillity over thegreatest part of the earth. His reign is marked by the rare advan­tage of furnishing very few materials for history; which is, indeed,little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunesof mankind. In private life, he was an amiable, as well as a goodman. The native simplicity of his virtue was a stranger to vanityor affectation. He enjoyed, with moderation, the conveniencies ofhis fortune, and the innocent pleasures of society **; and the be­nevolence of his foul displayed itself in a cheerful serenity oftemper. The virtue of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus was of a severer and Of Marcus,more laborious kind 4S. It was the well-earned harvest of many alearned conference, of many a patient lecture, and many a midnightlucubration. At the age of twelve years he embraced the rigidsystem of the stoics, which taught him to submit his body to hismind, his passions to his reason; to consider virtue as the onlygood, vice as the only evil, all things external, as things in­different46. His meditations, composed in the tumult of a camp,are still extant; and he even condescended to give lessons of philo­sophy, in a more public manner, than suited the modesty of a sage»or the dignity of an emperor *7. But his life was the noblest com­mentary on the precepts of Zeno. He was severe to himself, in­dulgent to the imperfection of others, just and beneficent to allmankind. He regretted that Avidius Cassius, who excited a re­bellion in Syria, had disappointed him, by a voluntary death, ofthe pleasure of converting an enemy into a friend, and he justifiedthe sincerity of that sentiment, by moderating the zeal of the senate against