OCR Output 412 NEAPOLIS. 'NEAPOLIS. proximity, translated in erar version, " a teacher oflies" (ii. 18). The time when it assumed its newname, which it still retains almost uncorrupted inNablits, is marked by the authors above cited andby the coins. Pliny died during the reign of Titus,under whom Josephus wrote, and the earliest coinsbearing the inscription +AAOTI. NEAIIOA. 5AMAP.are of the same reign. Sichem is an exceedingly ancient town, and isfrequently mentioned in the history of the earliestpatriarchs. It was the first place of Abraham'ssojourn on coming into the land of Canaan, and therehe built an altar to the Lord. {Gen. \ii. 6.) Theconnection of Jacob with the place is marked by thetraditionary well still called by his name, and referredto as an undoubtedly authentic tradition, eighteencenturies ago, — that is, at the expiration of abouthalf the period that has elapsed since the time of thepatriarch {Gen. xxxiii. 18, xxxiv.; St. Juhn, iv. 5,6, 12); nor need the authority of the other localtradition of Joseph's tomb be questioned, as he waacertainly deposited there on the coming in of theIsraelites, and the reverence paid by them to theirfathers' sepulchres forbids us to suppose that itcould fall into oblivion. {Gen. 1. 25; Josh, xxxiv.32.) That tomb was probably situated in theu parcel of a field" where Jacob had spread his tent,which he had bought of the children of Hamor,Sheehcms' father, for a hundred pieces of money, butwhich the patriarch himself represents as taken(probably recovered) " from the Amorites with hissword and with his bow" {Gen. xlviii. 22), andwhich he retained as pasture-ground for his cattleafter his removal from that vicinity (xxxvii. 12—14).In the division of the land, it fell to the tribe ofEphraim, and is described as situated in MountEphraim; it was a Levitical city, and one of thethree cities of refuge on the west of Jordan. {Josh.xx. 7, xxi. 20, 21.) There it was that Joshuaassembled the national convention shortly before hisdeath (xxiv. 1,25); at which time " he took a groatstone and set it np there under an oak, that waa bythe sauctoary of the Lord " (ver. 26), proving that thetabernacle was then at Shechem, probably in theidentical place, the memory of which the Samaritantradition has perpetuated to this day. [Ebal;Qbbizdl] The pillar erected by Joshua continuedto be held in veneration throughout the time of theJudgea; there the Shechemites "made Abimelechking, by the plain (|| oak) of the pillar that was inSliecliem," — his own birthplace, and the scene of hisfather Gideon's victory over the Midianites {Judges,vii. 1, viii. 31, ix. 6); and there it was that the Is­raelites assembled to inakeJfehoboam king. (1 Kings,xii. 1; 2 Chron. x. 1.) The remainder of itahistory is so identified with that of ita sacred MountGerizim that it has been anticipated under thatarticle. There can be little doubt that this is thecity of Samaria mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles,where Philip preached with such success, and whichfurnished to the Church one of its earliest andmost dangerous adversaries, and its first and mostdistinguished apologist. Not that Simon Magnawas a native of Neapolis, but of a village of Samarianamed Gitton (Titti**, Just Mart. ApoL L 36;comp. Euscb. //. E. ii. 13), but Neapolis was theprincipal theatre of his sorceries. Justin Martyr wasa native of tile city, according to Eusebius (airo*Aaiu'as viai v6\tu\ Svptai rijj naKatmivTji. Hist.EccUs. ii. 13). Si h. in is placed by Eusebius andSt. Jerome, x.M.P.froui Shiio, which agrees well with the interval between Silim and Nablis. (<s. r. 3n\ti.) Hut it must lie observed, that theseauthors distinguish between theSychem of Ephraim,near the sepulchre of Joseph,— which, having beendestroyed and sown with salt by Abimelech. »urestored by Jeroboam (comp. Judges, ix- 45, with1 Kings, xii. 25), who, Josephus says, built hi* palacethere {Ant. viii. 8. § 4),—and the city of refuge aMount Ephraim, which they assign to Managers:,and, with strange inconsistency, immediately identifywith the preceding by the fact that Joseph'a boneswere buried there. (Onomast. s. v. 2vx«V) Theauthor of the Jerusalem Itinerary places it xL M. P.from Jerusalem. The modern town of Nablits is situated in a valleylying between Mount Ebal on the N., and MountGerizim on the S., giving to the valley a directioafrom E. to W. On the E., the Mabiis valley opensinto a much wider valley, about 2 miles from thetown ; this valley is called Erd-Mukhna Where theNablits valley meets the Erd-Mukhna, at the NE.base of Mount Gerizim, is Jacob's well, and, hard bythe well, is the traditionary site of Joseph's tenth,both of them close to the Moslem village of Askar,situated at the SE. base of Mount Ebal. 1'oaeiUythis Askar may mark the site of ancient Sychar. thenames present only an anagratntnatical vari*i>eLThis would satisfy the language of Eusebius and St.Jerome, cited at the commencement of the article,and remove the obvious difficulty of supposing thewell so far distant from the city as is Nabiii, par­ticularly as Nablits abounds with running stream,and there are copious- fountains between it and thewell. One of these, not noticed by any traveller,situated about mid-way between the well and thetown, in the middle of the valley, is called 'AimDaphne, so named, no doubt, at the time warnGreeks inhabited Neapolis, from the iiifamsss)fountain and grove near Antioch. The modrraNablits is a large and well-built town, enntaianssr apopulation of from 12,000 to 14,000 souls, almostentirely Mohammedans; the Samaritans havinsr beastreduced to something under 200 of all ages ani U*hsexes. (Haumer, I'alast'ma, pp. 144—14*), notes;Robinson, Bib. Res. vol. iii. pp. 95—136.) The coins of Neapolis are very frequent under theemperors from Titus to Volusianns. The enssssssxinscription is +A. Nf ACnOA6<z)C, more rarely♦AAOT, as in the one below, in which is also added.as in many examples, the name of the regies. Themore usual emblem on the reverse is a temple sibon the summit of a mountain, to which is iby many steps. The temple is doubtless that:tioned bv Damasiua as Aibr 'IMiffTovieoir (nil. I'hot. liibl. p. 1055). the stepsalluded toby the Bordeaux Pilgrim in A. D. 333; —"Ascenduntur usque ad summum montem grades*nutnero occ." On the coins of Tit us, bowrar,before the Mount Gerizim was introduced, a palm, eain the example below, was the type; or a laurel, with coix or HEAroLU a r.tusTtxm.