OCR Output 108 ROMAN EMPIRE. of a brute; his lust confounded the eternal distinctionsof sex and species; and he seemed to extract some un­natural delight from the objects most offensive to humansense. In his religion, the Iconoclast was a heretic, aJew, a Mahometan, a Pagan, and an atheist; and hisbelief of an invisible power could be discovered only inhis magic rites, human victims, and nocturnal sacrificesto Venus and the demons of antiquity. His life wasstained with the most opposite vices," and the ulcerswhich covered his body, anticipated before his deaththe sentiment of hell tortures. Of these accusations,which I have so patiently copied, a part is refuted by itsown absurdity; and in the private anecdotes of the lifeof princes, the lie is more easy as the detection is moredifficult. Without adopting the pernicious maxim, thatwhere much is alleged, something must be true, I canhowever discern, that Constantine V. was dissolute andcruel. Calumny is more prone to exaggerate than to in­vent; and her licentious tongue is checked in somemeasure by the experience of the age and country towhich she appeals. Of the bishops and monks, the ge­nerals and magistrates, who are said to have sufferedunder his reign, the numbers are recorded, the nameswere conspicuous, the execution was public, the mutila­tion visible and permanent. The Catholics hated theperson and government of Copronymus; but even theirhatred is a proof of their oppression. They dissemblethe provocations which might excuse or justify his ri­gour; but even these provocations must gradually in­flame his resentment, and harden his temper in the useor the abuse of despotism. Yet the character of the fifthConstantine was not devoid of merit, nor did his govern­ment always deserve the curses or the contempt of theGreeks. From the confession of his enemies, I am in­formed of the restoration of an ancient aqueduct, of theredemption of two thousand five hundred captives, of theuncommon plenty of the times, and of the new colonies