OCR Output 72 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. joined them so to do. He persuaded himalso not to counterwork the designs of God,but to esteem his favour above ail things, andto permit them to depart lest he should layan obstruction in the way of the Divine com­mands, and so occasion his suffering suchpunishments, as it was probable any one thatwithstood the Divine commands should un­dergo, since the severest afflictions arise fromevery object to those that provoke the Divinewrath against them; for such as these haveneither the earth, nor the air, for their friends:nor are the fruits of the womb according tonature, but every thing is unfriendly and ad­verse towards them. He said farther, thatthe Egyptians should know this by sad expe­rience, and that the Hebrew people should goout of their country without permission. . CHAP. XIV. OF THE TEN PLAGUES WHICH CAME UPON THE EGYPTIANS. WHEN the king despised the words ofMoses, and had no regard at all tothem, grievous plagues seized the Egyptians;every one of which I will describe; both be­cause no such plagues ever happened to anyother nation as the Egyptians now felt; andbecause I would demonstrate that Moses didnot fail in any one thing that he foretold them;and because it is for the good of mankind,that they may learn this caution, not to doany thing that may displease God, lest he beprovoked to wrath, and avenge their iniqui­ties upon them. The Egyptian river ran with bloody water,*at the command of God, insomuch, that itcould not be drank; and they had no otherspring of water. For the water was not onlyof the colour of blood, but it brought uponthose that ventured to drink it great pains,and bitter torment. Such was the river tothe Egyptians. But it was sweet and fit todrink to the Hebrews, and no way different from what it naturally used to be. As theking, therefore, knew not what to do in thesesurprising circumstances, and was in fear forthe Egyptians, he gave the Hebrews leave togo away. But when the plague ceased, hechanged his mind, and would not suffer themto go. But when God saw that he was ungrateful,and upon the ceasing of the calamity wouldnot grow wiser, he sent another plague uponthe Egyptians: an innumerable multitude offrogst consumed the fruit of the ground.JThe river was also full of them; insomuchthat those who drew water had it spoiled bythe blood of these animals, as they died in,and were destroyed by, the water; and thecountry was full of filthy slime, as they wereborn, and as they died; they also spoiledtheir vessels in their houses which they used,and were found among what they ate andwhat they drank, and came in great numbersupon their beds. There was also a noisomesmell arose from them, as they were born, andas they died therein. Now when the Egyp­tians were under the oppression of thesemiseries, the king ordered Moses to take theHebrews with him, and be gone: upon whichthe whole multitude of the frogs vanishedaway; and both the land and the river re­turned to their former natures. But as soonas Pharaoh saw the land freed from thisplague, he forgot the cause of it, and retainedthe Hebrews; and, as though he had a mindto try the nature of more such judgments, hewould not yet suffer Moses and his people todepart; having granted that liberty ratherout of fear, than out of good consideration. Accordingly, God punished his falsenesswith another plague, added to the former.For there arose, out of the bodies of theEgyptians, an innumerable quantity oflice;||by which, wicked as they were, they misera­bly perished; being unable to destroy thissort of vermin, either with washes, or withointments. § At this terrible judgment, the * Exod. vii. 20. t Exod. viii. 6. J The river Nile naturally produces frogs; but so greatan abundance appearing on a sudden, filling the country,and leaving the rivers and fields, to go into the cities andhouses, was really miraculous. How they got into thecities and houses is not so hard a matter to conceive: forif expert generals, according to both ancient and modernhistory, have sometimes surprised an enemy bv entering cities through the common sewers, with much less dimunity might the frogs, these armies of the Divine vengeance,find a conveyance into the cities, which stood all upon tbebanks of the river, by aqueducts and subterraneous com­munications; and being eot into the cities, they might findapertures in the walls of the bouses, which the inhabitantsnever perceived before. Bibliotheca Bill, in locum. B. II Exod. viii. 17. § Some would have the word Cmnim, which we reader