OCR Output S94 THE DECLINE AND FALL Christian tyrant to their brethren of the north; the ocean and Mediterranean werecovered with their piratical fleets; and Charlemagne beheld with a sigh the de­structive progress of the Normans, who, in less than seventy years, precipitatedthe fall of his race and monarchy. Had the pope and the Romans revived the primitive constitution, the titles ofemperor and Augustus were conferred on Charlemagne for the term of his life;and his successors, on each vacancy, must have ascended the throne by a formalor tacit election. But the association of his son Lewis the Pious asserts the inde- {>endent right of monarchy and conquest, and the emperor seems on this occasion tolave foreseen and prevented the latent claims of the clergy. The royal youth wascommanded to take the crown from the altar, and with his own hands to place iton his head, as a gift which he held from God, his father, and the nation. (1) Thesame ceremony was repeated, though with less energy, in the subsequent associa­tions of Lothaire and Lewis II.; the Carlovingian sceptre was transmitted fromfather to son in a lineal descent of four generations; and the ambition of the popeswas reduced to the empty honour of crowning and anointing these hereditaryprinces who were already invested with the power and dominion. The piousLewis survived his brothers, and embraced the whole empire of Charlemagne;but the nations and the nobles, his bishops and his children, quickly discerned thatthis mighty mass was no longer inspired by the same soul; and the foundations wereundermined to the centre, while the external surface was yet fair and entire. Af­ter a war or battle, which consumed one hundred thousand Franks, the empirewas divided by treaty between his three sons, who had violated every filial andfraternal duty. The kingdoms of Germany and France were for ever separated;the provinces of Gaul, between the Rhone and the Alps: the Meuse and the Rhine,were assigned, with Italy, to the imperial dignity of Lothaire. In the partition ofhis share, Loraine and Aries, two recent and transitory kingdoms, were bestowedon the younger children; and Lewis II. his eldest son, was content with the realmof Italy, the proper and sufficient patrimony of a Roman emperor. On his deathwithout any male issue, the vacant throne was disputed by his uncles and cousins,and the popes most dexterously seized the occasion of judging the claims and me­rits of the candidates, and of bestowing on the most obsequious, or most liberal,the imperial office of advocate of the Roman church. The dregs of the Carlo­vingian race no longer exhibited any symptoms of virtue or power, and the ridi­culous epithets of the bald, the stammerer, the fat, and the simfile, distinguishedthe tame and uniform features of a crowd of kings alike deserving of oblivion. Bythe failure of the-collateral branches, the whole inheritance devolved to Charlesthe Fat, the last emperor of his family; his insanity authorized the desertion ofGermany, Italy, and France: he was deposed in a diet, and solicited his daily breadfrom the rebels by whose contempt his life and liberty had been spared. Accord­ing to the measure of their force, the governors, the bishops, and the lords, usurpedthe fragments of the falling empire; and some preference was shown to the femaleor illegitimate blood of Charlemagne. Of the greater part, the title and possessionwere alike doubtful, and the merit was adequate to the contracted scale of theirdominions. Those who could appear with an army at the gates of Rome werecrowned emperors in the Vatican, but their modesty was more frequently satisfiedwith the appellation of kings of Italy; and the whole term of seventy-four yearsmay be deemed a vacancy, from the abdication of Charles the Fat to the establish­ment of Otho I. Otho(2) was of the noble race of the dukes of Saxony; and, if he truly descendedfrom Wittikind, the adversary and proselyte of Charlemagne, the posterity ofa vanquished people was exalted to reign over their conquerors. His father Hen­ry the Fowler was elected, by the suffrage of the nation, to save and institute thekingdom of Germany. Its limits(3) were enlarged on every side by his son, the (1) Thegan. the biographer of Lewis, relates this coronation; and Bsronius has honestly transcribed if, (A.D. 813. no. 13, 8ce. see Gaitlard, torn. it. p. 506—508.) howsoever adverseto the claims of the popes. For the se­ries of the Carlovingian*, see the historians of France, Italy, and Germany; Pfeffel, Schmidt, Velly, Murato-ri, and even Voltaire, whose pictures are sometimes just, and always pleasing. (2) He was the son of Otho, the son of Ludolph, in whose favour the duchy of Saxony had been instituted.A. D. 858. Ruotgerus, the biographer of a St. Bruno, (Bibliot. Brunanianse Catalog, torn. iii. vol. ii. p. 679.;gives a splendid character of his family. Atavorum atavi usque ad hominum mcmoriflm omnes nobilissimt;nullis in eorum stirpe ignotus, nullis degener facile reperitur. (apud Strnvinm, Corp. Hist. German, p. 216.)Yet Gnndling (in Henrico Aucupe) is not satisfied of his descent from Wittikind. (3) See the treatise of Coringius; (de Finibus Imperii Germanici, Francofurt. 1680, in quarto) be rejects theextravagant and improper scale of the Roman and Carlovingian empires, and discusses with moderation the"igrtt* of Germany* fcef>vsjssat9,and her neighbours.