OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 371 In financial matters even under the former constitution Regulationthe decisive voice lay with the senate; the only point to be oftnedealt with, accordingly, was the re-establishment of an or- finanoes-derly administration. Sulla had found himself at first in nosmall pecuniary diificulty; the sums brought with him fromAsia Minor were soon expended for the pay of his nume­rous and constantly swelling army. Even after the victoryat the Colline gate the senate, seeing that the state-chesthad been carried off to Praneste, had been obliged to re­sort to urgent measures. Various building-sites in thecapital and several portions of the Campanian domains wereexposed to sale, the client kings, the freed and allied com­munities, were laid under extraordinary contribution, theirlanded property and their customs-revenues were in somecases confiscated, and in others new privileges were grantedto them for money. But the residue of nearly £600,000found in the public chest on the surrender of Praeneste, thepublic auctions which soon began, and other extraordinaryresources relieved the embarrassment of the moment. Pro­vision was made for the future not so much by the reformin the Asiatic revenues, under which the tax-payers were theprincipal gainers and the state chest was perhaps at most noloser, as by the resumption of the Campanian domains towhich iEnaria was now added (P. 356), and above all by theabolition of the largesses of grain, which since the time ofGaius Gracchus had eaten like a canker into the liomaufinances. The judicial system on the other hand was essentially Reoganixa-revolutionized, partly from political considerations, partly tion ot thtwith a view to introduce greater unity and usefulness into JU!llclalthe hitherto very insufficient and unconnected legislation on sys m'the subject. Over and above the courts in which the whole Previou?burgesses decided on appeals from the sentence of the magis- arrange-trate, there existed at this time two sorts of procedure ments-before jurymen. In the ordinary procedure, which was Ordinaryapplicable to all cases adapted according to our view for a procedure.criminal or civil process with the exception of crimes imme­diately directed against the state, one of the two praetorsof the capital technically adjusted the cause and a judexnominated by him decided it on the basis of this adjust­ment. The extraordinary procedure again was applicableto particular civil or criminal cases of importance, for which,instead of the single judex, a special jury had been ap-