OCR Output CHAP. LI. 433 the ocean for the purple shell-fish. The fearless Akbahplunged into the heart of the country, traversed the wil­derness in which his successors erected the splendid ca­pitals of Fez and Morocco," and at length penetrated tothe verge of the Atlantic and the great desert. The riverSus descends from the western sides of mount Atlas, fer­tilizes, like the Nile, the adjacent soil, and falls into thesea at a moderate distance from the Canary, or Fortu­nate, islands. Its banks were inhabited by the last of theMoors, a race of savages, without laws, or discipline, orreligion; they were astonished by the strange and irre­sistible terrors of the oriental arms; and, as they pos­sessed neither gold nor silver, the richest spoil was thebeauty of the female captives, some of whom were after­ward sold for a thousand pieces of gold. The career,though not the zeal, of Akbah was checked by the pros­pect of a boundless ocean. He spurred his horse into thewaves, and raising his eyes to heaven, exclaimed with thetone of a fanatic—Great God! if my course were notstopped by this sea, I would still go on, to the unknownkingdoms of the west, preaching the unity of thy holyname, and putting to the sword the rebellious nationswho worship any other gods than thee.f Yet this Ma­hometan Alexander, who sighed for new worlds, was un­able to preserve his recent conquests. By the universaldefection of the Greeks and Africans, he was recalledfrom the shores of the Atlantic, and the surrounding mul­titudes left him only the resource of an honourable death.The last scene was dignified by an example of nationalvirtue. An ambitious chief, who had disputed the com­ OT Linnaanname; nor will I decide whether the citrum be the orange or the lemon.Saltnasius appears to exhaust the subject, but he too involves himself in the web ofhu disorderly erudition. (Plinian. Exercitat. torn. 2. p. 666, &c.) '° Leo African, fol. 16, verso. Marmot, torn. 2. p. 28. This province, the firstscene of the exploits and greatness of the iherift, is often mentioned in the curioushistory of that dynasty at the end of the third volume of Marmol, Description derAfrique. The third vol. of the Recherches Historiques sur les Maures (latelypublished at Paris), illustrates the history and geography of the kingdoms of Fezand Morocco. v Otter (p. 119.) has given the strong tone of fanaticism to this exclamation,which Cardonne (p. 37.) has softened to a pious wish of preaching the Koran. Yetthey had both the same text of Novairi before their eyes. VOL. VI. 2 F