OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 297 of the Roman commerce in those waters, was occupied andnearly 20,000 men, mostly Italians, were massacred there;Euboea suffered a similar fate; all the islands to the east ofthe Malean promontory were soon in the hands of theenemy; they might proceed to attack the mainland itself.The assault, no doubt, which the Pontic fleet made fromEuboea on the important Demetrias, was repelled by Brut-tius Sura, the brave lieutenant of the governor of Mace­donia, with his handful of troops and a few vessels hurriedlycollected, and he even occupied the island of Sciathus; buthe could not prevent the enemy from establishing himselfin Greece proper. There Mithradates carried on his opera- The Pontictiona not only by arms, but at the same time by national pro- proceedingspagandism. His chief instrument for Athens was one Aria- in Greece.tion, by birth an Attic slave, by profession formerly a teacherof the Epicurean philosophy, now a minion of Mithradates;an excellent master of persuasion, who by the brilliantcareer which he pursued at court knew how to dazzle themob, and gravely to assure them that help was already onthe way to Mithradates from Carthage which had beenfor about sixty years lying in ruins. These addresses of thenew Pericles and the promise of Mithradates to redeliver tothe Athenians the island of Delos which they had formerlypossessed were so far effectual that, while the few personspossessed of judgment escaped from Athens, the mob andone or two literati whose heads were turned formally re­nounced the Roman rule. So the ex-philosopher became adespot who, supported by his bands of Pontic mercenaries,commenced an infamous and bloody rule; and the Piraeuswas converted into a Pontic harbour. As soon as the troopsof Mithradates gained a footing on the Greek continent,most of the small free states—the Achaeans, Laconians, Boeo­tians—as far as Thessaly joined them. Sura, after havingdrawn some reinforcements from Macedonia, advanced intoBoeotia to bring help to the besieged Thespiae, and engagedin conflicts with Archelaus and Aristion during three days atChaeronea; but they led to no decision and Sura was obligedto retire when the Pontic reinforcements from the Pelopon­nesus approached (end of 666, beg. of 667). 88. 87. So commanding was the position of Mithradates, particu­larly by sea, that an embassy of Italian insurgents invited himto make an attempt to land in Italy; but their cause was al­ready by that time lost, and the king rejected the suggestion.