OCR Output 70 ISSUS. ISSUS. N\V. and forms Strabo's Amanides Pylae, unite inthe interior, as Strabo says (p. 535); and our mo­dern ma pa represent it so. There is a plain at thehead of the gulf. Strabo gives a greater extent tothe L>sic gulf than we do to the gulf of Scandervon,fur he makes it extend along the Cilician coast asfar as Cilicia Trachea, and certainly to Soli (pp. 534,604). In another passage (p. 125) he shows whatextent he gives to the gulf of Issus, by placingCyprus in the Pamphylian sea and in the gulf ofIssus,—the west part of the island being in the Pam­phylian, and the east in the lssic gulf. The gulf ufJikcnderun was surveyed by Li. Murphy in theEuphrates expeditiun under the command of ColonelChesney. The ancient geographers did not agree about theposition of the inthmus of the country which we callAsia Hi nor; by which isthmus they meant theshortest distance across the eastern part of the pen­insula from the Euxine to the Mediterranean. Strabo(p. 673) makes this shortest distance lie along aline joining Amisus and Tarsus. If he had saidAmisus and the head of the gulf of Issus, he wouldhave been quite right. He was nearly correct as tothe longitude of the head of the gulf of Issus, whichhe places in the meridian of Amisus and Themiscyra(p. 126); und in another passage he says that thehead of the gulf of Issus is a little more cast thanAmisus, or not at all more east (p. 519). Amisusis, in fact, a little further east than the most easternpart of the gulf of Issus. The longest direction ofthe inhabited world, according to St moo's system(p. 118), fnun west lo east, is measured on a linedrawn through the Stelae (Straits of Gibraltar^),and the Sicilian strait (Straits of Messina), to1( hod us and the gulf of Issus, whence it follows tin-Taurus, which divides Asia into two parts, and ter­minates on the eastern sen. Those ancient geogra­phers who made the isthmus of the Asiatic peninsulaextwid from Issus to the Euxine, considered theshortest line across the isthmus to be a meridianline, and the dispute was whether it ran to Sinopeor Amisua (Strab. p. 678). The choice of Issus asthe point on the Mediterranean to reckon from, showsthat Issus was the limit, or most eastern point, onthe south coast of the peninsula, and that U was noton that part of the bay of Issus where the coast runssouth. Consequently Issus was on or near the headt-i the gulf. Herodotus (iv. 38) makes the southernside of this peninsula, or Acte, as he calls it, extendfnun the Myriandric gulf (gulf of Issus) to theTriupian promontory, which is quite correct. Onthe north side he makes it extend from the mouthuf the Phasis to the promontory Sigeum, which iscorrect as to the promontory; but he carries theneck too far east, when he makes it brgin at theI'basis. This mistake, however, shows that heknew something of the position of the mouth of the1*basis, for he intends to make the Acte begin atthat part where the coast of the Euxine begins tolie west and east; and though the mouth of thePhasis is not exactly at this point, it was the bestknown river of any near it. In another passage(L 72), which, like many others in his history, is ob­scurely expressed, he describes the neck (o^r) °fthis Acte as nearly cut through by the river Halys;and he makes its width from the sea opposite toCyprus to the Euxine to be 6vc days' journey furan active man,—an estimate very much short of thetruth, even if we allow Greek activity to walk 30miles a day through a rough country. Strabo's re< port from hearsay (vol. i. p. 538), that the lay ofIssus can be seen from the summit of Argaeu*[Akoakits], is very improbable. Xenophou says that Cyrus marched 15 jarasangs from the Py ramus (JaUtun) "to Issi, the utteniH^t city of Cilicia, on the sea, great and prosperous." ; From Issus to the Pylae of Cilicia and Syria, the boundary between Syria and Cilicia, was five javra- ( sangs, and here was the river Carsus (Xen. Amah. I i. 4. § 4). The next stage was five paxasang* U | Myriandrus, a town in Syria on the sea, occupied by j Phoenicians, a trading place (tuxoptov), where many merciiant ships were lying. Cars ten NiebuLr, who went through the l'ylae Ciliciae to Tarsus, has some remarks on the probable bite of Issus, but they lead to no conclusion (vol. i. p. 116), except that we cannot certainly determine the site of I«u* from Xenophon; and yet he would give us the best means of determining it, if we knew where he crossed the Py ramus, and if we were also certain that the numbers in the Greek text are correct. The nearest road to Susa from Sardis was throughthe Cilician plains. The difficulties were the jsuvsageinto the plains by the Ciliciae l*yiae or pa*-s [Vol. Lp. 619], and the way out of the plains along thegulf of Issus into Syria. The great road to Susawhich Herodotus describes (v. 49, 52), went northof the Taurus to the Euphrates. The land furce*in the expedition of Datis and Artapberues, b. c490, crossed the Syrian Amanus, and went a» fax asthe Aleian plain in Cilicia; and there they em­barked. (Herod, vi. 95.) They did not march byland through the Cilician Pylae over the Taurusinto the interior of the peninsula; but Mardonius(Herod, vi. 43), in the previous expedition had led bistroops into Cilicia, and sent them on by laud to theHellespont us, while he took ship and sailed lo Ionia.The land force of Mardonius must liave passed outof Cilicia by the difficult pass iu the Taurus, [VuL.L p. 619.] Shortly before the battle of Issus (n. c. .WJ)Alexander was at Mallos, when he heard that Dariuswith all his force was at Sochi in Assyria; whichplace was distant two inarches from the AssyrianPylae. (Arrian, Anab. ii. 6.) M Assyria" and ** Aa-syrian" here mean " Syria" and ** Syrian." Danushad crossed the Euphrates, probably at Thap-acus,and was encamped in an open country in Syria,which was well suited for his cavalry. The jdaceSochi is unknown: but it may be the place whichCurtius calls Unchae. (Q. Curt. iv. 1.) Amusays that Alexander left Malic*, and on the seciauiday he passed through the Pylae and reached My­riandrus: he does not mention Issus on this march-Now the shortest distance that Alexander couldmarch from Mallos to Scatuitrorm is at least 7omiles, and if Myriandrus wan south »>f Sctrndenxm,it was more than 70 miles. This Matement of Ar­rian as to time is therefore false. Curtius (Hi. 8)says that Alexander only reached Castabalum [Caa-TABAl.rsf] on the second day from Mallos; that hewent through Issus, and there deliberated whetherhe should go on or halt. Darius crossed the Amanus,which separates Syria from the bay of Issus, by apass called the Amanicar Pylae (Arrian, U. 7), andadvancing to Issus, was in the rear of Alexander,who had parsed through tin* Cilician and SyrianPylae. Darius came to the pass in the Amanus,sayi Curtius, on toe same night that Alexandercame to the pass (fauces) by which Syria is enteredThe place where Darius crossed the Amanus *s*>