OCR Output MESSENE. &S9 MESSENE. depot and picturesque structures of this class in I The northern gate, leading to Megalopolis in Ar-Graece. | cadia (Paus. iv. 33. §3), is one of the finest speci- Lh4 www FLAJT OF THE RUINS OP MESSENE. A. Arcadian or Megalopolitan Gate. mens of Greek military architecture in existence.It* form is seen in the preceding plan. It is a emailfortress, containing double gates opposite to onetoother, and connected by a circular court of 62feet in diameter. In front of the outer gate onother side is a strong rectangular tower. Uponentering the court through the outer gate, there is a»the oo each side for a statue, with an inscription««r it The one on the left hand is still legible,ind mentions Qnintus Plotius Kuphemion as the re-**«■ (Bockb, Inter. No. 1460). Pausanias (iv.33. §3) notices in this gate a Hermes in the Atticrtrle, which may possibly have stood in one of thesea*i*«. Leake observes that the interior masonryrf the circnlar court is the most exact and beautifulHe ever uw. The lower course is a row of stones,«*eb about 5} in length and half as much in height;np» this is placed another course of stones of equalfeagtb and of half the height, the joints of which areptQMfy over the centre of each stone in the lowercoune. The upper part of the walls has fallen:ftio* courses are the most that remain. Neitherfscway retains its covering, but the flat architrave* the inner one lies in an oblique position upon therain* of the wall by which it was formerly supported;h mn»ares 18 feet 8 inches in length by 4 feet 2i*be» in breadth, and 2 feet 10 inches in thickness. The road still leads through this gate into the circuitof the ancient city. The ruins of the towers, withthe interjacent curtains, close to the gate on the dopeof Mount Ithome, show this part of the fortificationsto have resembled a chain of strong redoubts, eachtower constituting a fortress of itself. '* A flight ofsteps behind the curtain led to a door in the flank ofthe tower at half its height. The upper apartment,which was entered by the door, had a range of loop­holes, or embrasures, on a line with the door, lookingalong the parapet of the curtain, and was lighted bytwo windows above. The embrasures, of which thereare some in each face of the towers, have an openingof 7 inches within, and of 3 feet 9 inches without, sothat, with a small opening, their scope is very great.The windows appear to be too high for any purposebut to give light. Both the curtains and towers inthis part of the walls are constructed entirely oflarge squared blocks, without rubble or cement. Thecurtains are 9 feet thick. The inner face of thetowers has neither door nor window. The towernext to the gate of Megalopolis has had all the stonesdisjointed, like those of the Pmpylaea at Athens,probably by an earthquake." The towers are in ge­neral about 25 feet square, projecting about 14 feetfrom a curtain varying in length according to thenature of the ground, and 8 or 10 feet in thickness. z 2