OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35 vived and propagated in the modem schools of jurisprudence. After Rome her­self had been stripped of the imperial purple, the princes of Constantinople as­sumed the sole and sacred sceptre of the monarchy; demanded, as their rightfulinheritance, the provinces which had been subdued by the consuls, or possessedby the Caisars, and feebly aspired to deliver their faithful subjects of the westfrom the usuipation of heretics and barbarians. The execution of this splendiddesign was in some degree reserved for Justinian. During the five first years ofhis reign, he reluctantly waged a costly and unprofitable war against the Persians;till his pride submitted to his ambition, and he purchased, at the price of 440,000/.sterling, the benefit of a precarious truce, which, in the language of both nations,was dignified with the appellation of the endless peace. The safety of the eastenabled the emperor to employ his forces against the Vandals; and the internalstate of Africa afforded an honourable motive, and promised a powerful support,to the Roman arms.(l) According to the testament of the founder, the African kingdom had lineallydescended to Hilderic, the eldest of the Vandal princes. A mUd disposition in­clined the son of a tyrant, the grandson of a conqueror, to prefer the counsels ofclemency and peace; and his accession was marked by the salutary edict, whichrestored two hundred bishops to their churches, and allowed free profession ofthe Athanasian creed.(2) But the catholics accepted, with cold and transientgratitude, a favour so inadequate to their pretensions, and the virtues of Hildericoffended the prejudices of his countrymen. The Arian clergy presumed to in­sinuate that he had renounced the faith, and the soldiers more loudly complainedthat he had degenerated from the courage of his ancestors. His ambassadorswere suspected of a secret and disgraceful negotiation in tie Byzantine court; andhis general, the Achilles,(3) as he was named, of the Va»dals, lost a battle againstthe naked and disorderly Moors. The public disconte«t was exasperated by Ge-limer, whose age, descent, and military fame, gave lvm an apparent title to thesuccession; he assumed, with the consent of the nation, the reigns of govern­ment; and his unfortunate sovereign sunk without a struggle from the throne to adungeon, where he was striptly guarded, with a faithful counsellor, and his unpo­pular nephew, the Achilles of'the Vandals. But the indulgence which Hilderichad shown to his catholic subjects had powerfully recommended him to the fa­vour of Justinian, who, for the benefit of bis own sect, could acknowledge the useand justice of religious toleration: their alliance, while the nephew of Justin re­mained in a private station, was cemented by the mutual exchange of gifts andletters; and the emperor Justinian asserted the cause of loyalty and friendship.In two successive embassies, he admonished the usurper to repent of his treason,or to abstain, at least, from anv further violence, which might provoke the dis­pleasure of God and of the Romans; to reverence the laws of kindred and suc­cession, and to suffer an infirm old man peaceably to end his days, either on thethrone of Carthage, or in the palace of Constantinople. The passions or even theprudence of Gelimer compelled him to reject these requests, which were urgedin the haughty tone of menace and command; and he justified his ambition in alanguage rarely spoken in a Bvzantine court, by alleging the right of a free peopleto remove or punish their chief magistrate, who had failed in the execution of thekingly office. After this fruitless expostulation, the captive monarch was mostrigorously treated; his nephew was deprived of his eyes, and the cruel Vandal,confident in his strength and distance, derided the vain threats and slow prepara­tions of the emperor of the eas*. Justinian resolved to deliver or revenge hisfriend; Gelimer to maintain his usurpation; and the war was preceded, accordingto the practice of civilized tvitions, by the most solemn protestations that eachparty was sincerely desirous of peace. The report of an African war was grateful only to the vain and idle populaceof Constantinople, whose poverty exempted them from tribute, and whose co- (1) The complete series of (lie Vandal war is related by Procopius, in regiilarand elegant narrative, (lib.;.e.9—25. lib. ii. c. 1—13.) and happy would be my lot, could I always tread in the footsteps of stich a guide.From the entire and diligent perusal of the Greek text, I have a right to pronounce that the Latin andFrench versions of Grotitis and Cousin, may not be implicitly trusted: yet the President Cousin has beeo oftenpraised, and Hugo Grotius was the first scholar of a learned acre. (2) See Kuinart. Hist. Persecur. Vandal, c. xii. p. 589, His best evidence is drawn from the life of Sf. Kul-trcntius, composed by one of his disciples, transcribed in a treat measure in the annals of Baronius, andprinted in several great collections. (Catalog. Bibliot. Bunavitena:, torn. i. vol. ii. p. 1258.) (3) For what quality of the mind or body? For speed, or be:iuly, or valour.' In what language did the Van-Oals read Homer?—Did he speak German? The Latins had four versions: (Fabric, torn. i. lib. ii. c. 3. p. 297.)yet in spite of the praises of Seneca, (Consol. c. 26.) they appear to have been more successful in imitatingthan in translating the Greek poets. But the name of Achilles might be famous and popular, even amongthe illiterate barbarians.