OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVMI. 163 pear to be actuated by fear of him, rather than bycontempt. Why, then, do you not direct your effortsto this point, and carry the strength of the war imme­diately to the place where Hannibal is, and not bythat circuition, presuming that, when you shall havepassed into Africa, Hannibal will follow you thither?Do you wish to be crowned with the distinguishedhonor of having finished the Punic war? In the verynature of things, you are to defend your own pro­perty, before you attack another's. Let peace be re­stored in Italy before hostilities commence in Africa.Let us be delivered from fear ourselves before we at­tempt to make others afraid of us. If both can be ac­complished under your conduct and auspices, it will bewell. After you have vanquished Hannibal at home,then go and lay siege to Carthage. If one or the otherof these conquests must be left to succeeding consuls,the former, as it will be the more important and themore glorious, will be also the cause of the subsequentone: for in the present state of affairs, besides thatthe treasury cannot maintain two different armies, onein Italy, and another in Africa; besides that we havenothing left us wherewith we could equip fleets, or beable to supply provisions; who does not see what dan­ger must be incurred? Publius Licinius will wagewar in Italy, Publius Scipio in Africa. What if Han­nibal, having gained a superiority, should advance tothe city (may all the gods avert the omen! my mindis shocked even at mentioning it; but what has hap­pened, may happen again), will that be a time for usto be obliged to send for you, the consul, from Africa,as we sent for Quintus Fulvius from Capua? Besides,are we to suppose that in Africa the chances of warwill not be the same with both parties? Let your fa­ther and your uncle be a warning to you, cut oflF,together with their armies, in the space of thirty days;and after having, during a course of several years, bytheir great services, as well on land as at sea, renderedthe name of the Roman people, and of your family, inthe highest degree illustrious among foreign states.