OCR Output OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 373 adorned their new conquest with magnificent buildings; but those ^au^t°sthcmonuments were raised at the expence of the people, and abhorredas badges of slavery. The apprehension of a revolt had inspiredthe most rigorous precautions: oppression had been aggravated byinsult, and the consciousness of the public hatred had been produc­tive of every measure that could render it still more implacable.We have already remarked the intolerant spirit of the Magian re-rligion. The statue6 of the deified kings of Armenia, and the sacredimages of the fun and moon, Were broke in pieces by the zeal of theconqueror; and the perpetual fire of Ormuzd was kindled and pre­served upon an altar erected on the summit of mount BagavanSJ. Itwas natural, thata people exasperated by so many injuries, should arm Revolt os thewith zeal in the cause of their independence, their religion, and their nobles.*1"1hereditary sovereign. The torrent bore down every obstacle, and thePersian garrison retreated before its fury. The nobles of Armeniaflew to the standard of Tiridates, all alleging their past merit,offering their future service, and soliciting from the new king thosehonours and rewards from which they had been excluded with dis­dain under the foreign governments6. The command of the armywas bestowed on Artavasdes, whose father had saved the infancy ofTiridates, and whose family had been massacred for that generousaction. The brother of Artavasdes obtained the government of aprovince. One of the first military dignities was conferred on theSatrap Otas, a man of singular temperance and fortitude, who pre­sented to the king his sister 57 and a considerable treasure, both ofwhich, in a sequestered fortress, Otas had preserved from violation:Among the Armenian nobles appeared an ally, whose fortunes are Story oftoo remarkable to pass unnoticed. His name was Mamgo, his origin Mamg0,was Scythian, and the horde which acknowledged his authority, hadencamped a very few years before on the skirts of the Chinese em­pire S8, which at that time extended as far as the neighbourhoodof Sogdiana59. Having incurred the displeasure of his master, Mamgo,,