OCR Output 194 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. there was the greatest reason to conclude, from manyconcurring circumstances, too evident to be doubted,that some remarkable calamity was ready to fall uponthem. Compelled at last by necessity, he put off the assembly,which did nothing more to the army, than procure thema reprieve from punishment; he gave orders for marchingthe next morning, and accordingly gave the signal, bysound of trumpet, the moment light began to appear. When the troops were drawn out of the camp, theVolsci, who had been put in motion by the Roman sig­nal, fell upon their rear guard. Terror and tumultspread like lightning, and reached the foremost ranks,so that neither the orders of the commanders could beheard, nor the troops be drawn up in order of battle.None thought of any thing, but how to escape, so thatthey tied in the greatest disorder over heaps of dead bo­dies and arms, nor did the Romans cease to fly, evenwhen the enemy gave over the pursuit. At length, when the soldiers were drawn together, af­ter this scattered rout, the consul who had stuck close bvthem, calling upon them in vain to do their duty, en­camped where there was no danger of aij attack, andsummoned the assembly. He reproached them with.great reason, for their perfidious cowardice and criminaltreason, asking the soldiers and ensigns, one by one,what had become of their arms and colours? The cen­turions and Serjeants, who had quitted their ranks, hescourged and beheaded; and one out of every ten, towhose lot it fell, of the rest of the army, was put to death. CHAP. LX. Quinctius more successful and beloved. Voleio's law passed. X HIi conduct of the other army, sent to chastise theJEqui, was very different. Between the consul and thesoldiers, there was a generous emulation in courtesy andacts of kindness. Quinctius was formed by nature togentleness and mildness ; and the fatal effects of his col­league's ferocity, gave him reason to congratulate him­self on his own turn of mind. In consequence of the