OCR Output 256 LIVY. consul who was the nearest home, should be sent for,to be present at the proceedings; for as no subject ofgreater importance than the present could ever comeunder their consideration, so he did not think it con­sistent with the dignity of the Roman people, that anaffair of such magnitude should be transacted in theabsence of both the consuls.' Quintus Metellus, whothree years before had been consul, and had also beendictator, proposed, that 'whereas Publius Scipio, bydestroying the armies of the enemy, and wasting theircountry, had reduced them to such necessity, that theysued for peace. No person whatever could be a morecompetent judge of their intention in making the ap­plication, and therefore they should be wholly directedby the advice of that general, who was carrying onthe war under the walls of Carthage.' Marcus Vale­rius Laeviuus, who had been twice consul, chargedthose men with being come as spies, and not as ambas­sadors; and advised, that ' they should be ordered todepart from Italy; that guards should he sent withthem to their ships; and that orders should be sent toScipio, not to intermit his operations.' Laelius andFulvius added, that ' Scipio had grounded his hopes ofsuccess on Hannibal and Mago not being recalled fromItaly. That the Carthaginians would feign a compli­ance with any measures, while they waited for the ar­rival of those generals and their armies; and wouldafterwards, forgetting all gods and all treaties, how­ever recent, pursue the war.' This observation madethem more readily concur in the opinion of Laevinus.The ambassadors were therefore dismissed, and almostwithout an answer. 24. About the same time the consul, Cneius Servi-lius, not doubting bat that he should enjoy the gloryof having restored peace to Italy, passed over intoSicily in pursuit of Hannibal, (as if he himself hadcompelled him to retreat,) intending to proceed fromthence to Africa. As soon as this became known atRome, the senate at first voted that the pretor shouldwrite to the consul that they required him to return to