OCR Output 41$ [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. But the elders of Jerusalem being very un­easy that the brother of Jaddua the high-priest, though married to a foreigner, shouldbe a partner with him in the high-priesthood,quarrelled with him. For they esteemed thisman's marriage a step to such as should bedesirous of transgressing about the marriageof strange wives; and that this would bethe beginning of a mutual intercourse withforeigners; although the offence of someabout marriages, and their having marriedwives that were not of their own country, hadbeen an occasion of their former captivity,and of the miseries they then underwent. Sothey commanded Mauasseh to divorce hiswife, or not to approach the altar: the high-priest himself joining with the people in theirindignation against his brother, and drivinghim away from the altar. Whereupon Ma­uasseh came to his father-in-law, Sanhallat,and told him, that although he loved hisdaughter Nicaso, yet he was not willing to bedeprived of his sacerdotal dignity on her ac­count; which was the principal dignity intheir nation, and always continued in thesame family. But Sanballat promised notonly to preserve to him the honour of hispriesthood, but to procure for him the powerand dignity of a high-priest, and to make himgovernor of all the places he himself nowruled, if he would keep his daughter for hiswife. He also told him farther, that he wouldbuild him a temple like to that at Jerusalem,upon mount Gerizzim; which is the highestof all the mountains that are in Samaria: andhe promised that he would do this with theapprobation of Darius the king. Manassehwas elevated with these promises; and staidwith Sanballat; upon a supposal that heshould gain a high-priesthood, as bestowedon him by Darius. For it happened thatSanballat was then in years. But there wasnow a great disturbance among the people ofJerusalem, because many of those priests andLevites were entangled in such matches.For they all revolted to Manasseh: and San­ballat afforded them money; and dividedamong them land for tillage, and habitationsalso; and all this in order to gratify his son-in-law. About this* time Darius heard how Alex- * An. 334. ander had passed over the Hellespont; andhad beaten his lieutenants, in the battle atGranicum; and was proceeding farther.Whereupon he assembled an army of horseand foot, and determined that he would meetthe Macedonians, before they should assaultand conquer all Asia. So he passed over theriver Euphrates; and came over Taurus, theCelician mountain; and at Issus of Cilicia hewaited for the enemy, as ready there to givehim battle. Now Sanballat was glad thatDarius was come down; and told Manassehthat he would perform his promises to him assoon as Darius should come back, after hehad beaten his enemies. For not he only,but all those that were in Asia also, were per­suaded that the Macedonians would not somuch as come to a battle with the Persians;on account of their multitude. But the eventproved otherwise than they expected. Forthe king joined battle with the Macedonians,and was beaten, and lost a great part of hisarmy. His mother also, with his wife, andchildren, were taken captives; and he fledinto Persia. So Alexander came into Syria,and took Damascus: and when he had ob­tained Sidon, he besieged Tyre. He thensent an epistle to the Jewish high-priest, re­quiring him to send him some auxiliaries; andto supply his army with provisions: and thatwhat presents he formerly sent to Darius hewould now send to him; and choose thefriendship of the Macedonians: and that heshould never repent of so doing. But thehigh-priest answered the messengers, that hehad given his oath to Darius, not to bear armsagainst him: and he said he would not trans­gress it, while Darius was in the land of theliving. Upon hearing this answer, Alexanderwas very angry; and though he determinednot to leave Tyre, which was just ready tobe taken; yet as soc> o as he had taken it, hethreatened that he would make an expeditionagainst the Jewish high-priest, and throughhim teach all men to whom they must keeptheir oaths. So when he had, with a gooddeal of pains, during the 6iege, taken Tyre,and had settled its affairs, he came to thecity of Gaza, and besieged both the city, andhim that was governor of the garrison, whosename was Babemeses. But Sanballat thought he had now a properopportunity of making his attempt. So he