OCR Output 670 PJtOBALlKTHUS.PROFKXA. 4'2, viii. 1.) Tim was soon after divided among theKcman plebeians. (Id. viii. 11.) They do not ap­pear to hare taken any part in the general war of theLatins and Cainpanians against Rome ; but in B.C.327 the l'iivernates again took up arms single-handed, with only the assistance of a few of the Kun-dani Notwithstanding this. the war was deemed ofsufficient importance to employ two consular armies;and it was not till after a long siege that Piiver-iiuin was reduced by C. Pluit'ius, the consul of thefollowing year. The walls of the city were destroyed,and the leaders of the defection severely punished;hut the rest of the people were admitted to the Eto­nian citizenship,— probably, however, in the first in­stance without the right of suffrage, though this alsomust have been granted tlieui in the year n. o. 316,when the Ufentine. tribe was constituted, of whichPrivernum was the chief town. (Liv. viii. 19—21,ix. 20: Fort. Ctt/>ti.; Val. Max. vi. 2. § 1: Festus,s.v. UfetUina ; Niebuhr, vol. iii. p. 176.) Accordingto Festus (p. 233) it became a Praefectnra; butnotwithstanding this subordinate condition (whichwas perhaps confined to the short period before itattained the full franchise), it seems to have been aflourishing municipal town under the Roman govern­ment. Its territory was one of those which theagrarian law of SM'vilins Kullus proposed to assignto the Roman populace (Cic. </e Ley. Ayr. ii. 25);but though it escaped upon this occasion, it sub­sequently received a military colony (Lib. Colon, p.2-16). The period of this is uncertain: accordingto Zumpt (de Colon, p. 401) it probably did nottake place till the reign of Trajan. In inscriptionsit bears the title of a colony; though others term ita municipium ; and neither Pliny nor Ptolemy assignit the rank of a colony. (1'lin. iii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii.1. § G3; Zumpt, I. c.) It was noted, as well as theneighbouring Setia, for the excellence of its wine(Plin. xiv. 6.S.8); but we hear little of Privernumunder the Roman Empire, and have no subsequentaccount of its fate. From its secluded position, nomention occurs of it in the Itineraries. The ruins ofthe ancient city, which according to Cluverius arcconsiderable, are situated about 2 miles N. of themodern Pipemo, on the site still called PipenwVtcchio. The period or occasion of the abandonmentof the ancient site is unknown; but it is certainlyerroneous to connect it with a great earthquake whichis alluded to by Cicero as taking place at Privernum(Cic. dt IHv. i. 43). On that occasion, we are told,the earth sank down to a great depth,— a phenomenonwhich may have given rise to a remarkable chasmor cavity still visible in the neighbourhood of Piperno.The ancient city was more probably deserted in con­sequence of the ravages of the Saracens in the tenthcentury, from which all this part of Latium sufferedseverely (liampoldi, Corografia of Italia, voL Hi. p.258), and the inhabitants sought refuge, in moreelevated and secure positions, such as that of themodem town of Pipemo. [F. II. II.] PKOBALINTHUS. [Marathon.]PROBA'TIA. [Bokotia, p. 412, b.]PROCKRASTIS, the more ancient name ofChalcbdox, according U> Pliny (v. 32. s. 43). PKO'CHVTA (ripoxtnn: Procida\ a smallisland off the coast of Campania, situated betweenCape Misenum (from which it is distant less than 3miles) anil the larger island of Aenaria or hchia.In common with the latter it is of volcanic form­ation, and appears to have been subject in ancienttimes to frequent earthquakes. Pliny and Strabo even tell us that it was a mere fragment Van elfrom the neighbouring island of Aenam by ate]the violent convulsions of nature to wfako it «■subject. But this statement certainly has » b»torical foundation, any more than another, ala» •corded by Pliny, that both islands hail been tinalup by volcanic action from beneath the .wa. Sadan event, however true as a geological infaanlmust have long preceded the historical era. (§M i. p. 60, ii. p. 123, v. pp. 24$, 258; Pirn. U-tfThe same phenomena led the pr*ts to raProchjta with Aenaria or I nan me, in consolwith the fable of the giant Tvphoeos [A cm CMand Siltns Italicus even assigned it a fiantrflown, Mimas. (Virg- Aeru ix. 715; S;L luL'542. xii. 147; Ovid. Met iiv. 89.) Virgil's epithet of " Prochyta alta" is lea a)priate than usual. — the island, thoozhfirtlperpendicular cliffs, being flat and low. a* ca^leither with lochia or the neighbouring btadhnlMisenum. There does not appear to hare beautown on the island in ancient limes. Siatisetf ii. 276) terms it a rugged island, and Juraull iii. 5) speaks of it as a wretched and h»et»1of residence. At the present day, on the catit is one of the most fertile and nouiiabiaf iin the Neapolitan dominions, its whole «r»1cultivated like a garden and suj»pnrtmr a |lation of 44)00 inhabitants. It is distant hemand 3 miles from Cape Misenum, bat calf]a mile and a lialf from the nearest poimainland, which is now known ma theProcida. [E. PIIOCONNE'SUS (npoKovnjtraM, or Icos in Zosjbdl ii. 30. and Hie rod. p. 662).In the western part of the Proponti*. befwaand Cyzicus, and not, as Strata (xhL p.it, between Parium and PriapM. Theparticularly celebrated for its rich marblewhich supplied most of the neighbouring Iespecially Cyzicus, with the iriateriakpublic buildings; the palace of Mi--..-,built of this marble, which wa> while iaaalwith black streaks. (Vitruv. ii. 8.) Tancontained in its south-western part a bnousame name, of which Aristeas, the poet «* dtnaspeia, was a native. (Herod, iv. 14; romyv.flp. 35; Strab. Lc.) This town, which wof tlie Milesians (Strab. xii. p. 587). wPhoenician fleet, acting under itDarius. (Herod, vi. 33.) Strabo distaa,tween old anil ne* Proconnesus; and SryiProconnesus, notices another island ralJeJnesus, with a pood harbour. 1 *linv (t.Scholiast on Apollonian Khodius (ii. 2Klaphonesus only as another name furbut KUphoneans was unquestionablysituated a little to the south of I'pinhabitants of Cyzicus, at a time wlascertain, forced the Proronnesians towith them, and transferred the statue ofDindymene to their own city. (Pan*. *^The island of Proconnesus is mentioned at a ajin the ecclesiastical hiftoriana and the addCouncil of Cbakedon. The celebrity of jMquarries has changed its ancient name int»jflor Marmora; whence the whole <4 thenow called the .Sea oautonomous coins ofVet p. 75. PPOKPXA {l\p6*pn\ a town .f