OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 251 There were five thousand Carthaginians slain on thatday, and twenty-two military ensigns taken. Nor wasthe victory bloodless on the side of the Romans: twothousand three hundred men of the pretor's army werelost, by far the greater part of whom were of thetwelfth legion; of which legion also fell two militarytribunes, Marcus Gosconius and Marcus Maenius. Ofthe thirteenth legion, likewise, which had shared thelatter part of the engagement, Cneius Helvius, mili­tary tribune, was slain while employed in restoring thefight. There perished, besides, thirty-two horsemenof some distinction, who were trodden down by theelephants, together with some centurions. Probablythe contest would not have been so. soon ended, hadnot the wound of their general made the enemy retirefrom the field. 19. Mago, setting out during the silence of the nextnight, and making as long journeys as his wound al­lowed him to bear, arrived at the sea-coast, in thecountry of the Ingaunian Ligurians. There the depu­ties from Carthage, who had a few days before arrivedwith the ships in the Gallic bay, waited on him, anddelivered orders to him to pass over to Africa as soonas possible; informing him that his brother Hannibal,to whom messengers had been also sent, would do thesame, for the affairs of the Carthaginians were not ina condition to hold possession of Gaul and Italy byarms. Mago was not only moved by the commandsof the senate and the danger that threatened his coun­try, but dreaded lest, if he delayed, he might be hardpressed by the victorious enemy; and also, lest theLigurians themselves, seeing that the Carthaginianswere about to relinquish Italy, might revolt to thoseunder whose power they must speedily fall. He atthe same time entertained hopes that his wound mightbe less irritated on board a ship than on land, and thathe might there be able to attend to the cure of it withmore convenience. Embarking therefore his troops,he set sail, and had scarcely passed Sardinia when hedied; on the coast of which island, several Carthagi­