OCR Output B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 189 an entrenchment along the palisade, entirely to pre­vent the Athenians from continuing their works quitedown to the sea. The latter, when they h id perfectedtheir work along the crag, are bent on demolishing thenew palisade and intrenchment of the Syracusans. Forthis purpose, they had ordered their shipping to comeabout from Thapsus into the great harbour or Syracuse.They themselves, at the morning's dawn, marcheddown from Epipolse into the plain; and then, crossingthe marsh, where the mud was hardest and best able tobear, by the help of boards and planks which they laidupon the surface, they carry almost the whole lengthof the palisade and intrenchment early in the morning,and were soon after masters of the whole. This was noteffected without a battle, in which the Athenians wereagain victorious. The routed Syracusans fled differentways; those, who had composed their right, towardsthe city; and those, who had composed their left, to­wards the river. But, with a view of intercepting thepassage of the latter, the three hundred chosen Atheni­ans marched wich all speed to seize the bridge. TheSyracusans, alarmed at this step, as this body consistedof the bulk of their horse, face about on the three hun­dred, and put them to flight, and then break in uponthe right wing of the Athenians. By so unexpected ashock the first band in thac wing was thrown into dis­order. Lamachus, observing it, advanced to their sup­port from the left, with a small party of archers thathappened to be near him, and the whole body of theArgrves. Having crossed a ditch that lay between, se­conded only by a few, whilst the bulk of his parrymade a full stop, he is instantly flain j * as were also five * Plutarch, in the life of Nicias, circumstantiates the manner in which this oldgeneral lost his life in character, Calibrates, a good soldier, but of great impe­tuosity, rode at the head of the Syracusan horse. Being challenged out by Calibra­tes, Lamachus alone engaged personally with him. Lamachus received the firstwound j he then returned the blow, and dropped. His antagonist fell at the fametime, and they both expired together. Or