OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 201 successors. The Medes and the Babylonians divided their power,and were themselves swallowed up in the monarchy of the Persians,whose arms could not be confined within the narrow limits of Asia.Followed, as it is said, by two millions of men, Xerxes, the descendantof Cyrus, invaded Greece. Thirty thousand soldiers, under thecommand of Alexander, the son of Philip, who was intrusted bythe Greeks with their glory and revenge, were sufficient to subduePersia. The princes of the house of Seleucus usurped and lost theMacedonian command over the East. About the same time, that,by an ignominious treaty, they resigned to the Romans the countryon this side Mount Taurus, they were driven by the Parthians, anobscure horde, of Scythian origin, from all the provinces of UpperAsia. The formidable power of the Parthians, which spread fromIndia to the frontiers of Syria, was in its turn subverted by Ardstiir,or Artaxerxes; the founder of a new dynasty, which, under thename of Sassanides, governed Persia till the invasion of the Arabs.This great revolution, whose fatal influence was soon experienced bythe Romans, happened in the fourth year of Alexander Severus,two hundred and twenty-six years after the Christian sera *. Artaxerxes had served with great reputation in the armies of ThePe''"ian ° x monarchy Artaban, the last king of the Parthians, and it appears that he was <"est°red by it- • • Artaxerxes. driven into exile and rebellion by royal ingratitude, the customaryreward for superior merit. His birth was obscure, and the obscurityequally gave room to the aspersions of his enemies, and the flatteryof his adherents. If we credit the scandal of the former, Arta­xerxes sprang from the illegitimate commerce of a tanner's wifewith a common soldier \ The latter represent him, as descendedfrom a branch of the ancient kings of Persia, though time andmisfortune had gradually reduced his ancestors to the*humble stationof private citizens 4. As the lineal heir of the monarchy, heasserted his right to the throne, and challenged the noble taste ofdelivering the Persians from the oppression under which theyuVol. I. D d groaned