OCR Output 400 FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS [B. I. then says that " those who came from Jerusalem, and madethis invasion, got the granaries of Egypt into their possession,and perpetrated many of the most horrid actions there." Andthence he reproaches them, as though he had not himself in­troduced them as enemies, or as though he might accuse suchas were invited from another place for so doing, when thonatural Egyptians themselves had done the same things beforetheir coming, and had taken oaths so to do. However, "Ame-nophis some time afterward came upon them, and conqueredthem in battle, and slew his enemies, and drove them beforehim as far as Syria." As if Egypt were so easily taken bypeople that come from any place whatsoever; and as if thosethat had conquered it by war, when they were informed thatAmenophis was alive, did neither fortify the avenues out ofEthiopia into it, although they had great advantages for doingit, nor did get their other forces ready for their defence; butthat " he followed them over the sandy desert, and slew themas far as Syria;" while yet it is not an easy thing for anarmy to pass over that country, even without fighting. 30. Our nation, therefore, according to Manctho, was notderived from Egypt, nor were any of the Egyptians mingledwith us. For it is to be supposed that many of the leprousand distempered people were dead in the mines, since theyhad been there a long time, and in so ill a condition ; manyothers must be dead in the battles that happened afterward,and more still in the last battle and flight after it. 31. It now remains that I debate with Manetho aboutMoses. Now tho Egyptians acknowledge him to have beena wonderful and a divine person; nay, they would willinglylay claim to him themselves, though after a most abusive andincredible manner, and pretend that ho was of Hcliopolis,and one of the priests of that place, and was ejected out ofit among the rest, on account of his leprosy ; although it hadbeen demonstrated out of their records, that he lived fivehundred and eighteen years earlier, and then brought ourforefathers out of Egypt into the country that is now in­habited by us. But now that he was not subject in his bodyto any such calamity, is evident from what he himself tellp