OCR Output 726 ROMA. lioarium." Bunsen, however, has assumed from theomission that the line of wall never proceeded be­yond the Sacellum Larnm, and that, indeed, it wasnot needed; the remaining space being sufficientlydefended by a marsh or lake which surroundedit. (Besckr. vol. i. p. 13S.) But, as the SacellumLarum Jay on high ground, on the top of the Yelianridge, this could not have been a reason for notcarrying the wall farther; and even if there wasa marsh lower down, we cannot but suppose, asBecker observes (de Mur. p. 14), that the pomoe-riuni must have been earned on to its termination.Indeed the Porta Romanula, one of the gates of theRomalean city. lay, as we shall presently see, on theN\V. side, a Utile to the N. of the spot whenceTacitus commences his description; and if there wasa gate there, a fortiori there was a wall. The line described by Tacitus is that of the fur­row, not of the actual wall; but, in the case at leastof a newly founded city, the wall must have veryclosely followed this line. The space between them— the wall being inside — was the pomoerium,literally, " behind the wail" (post moerum — mu-rum); and this space could not be ploughed or cul­tivated. The line of the furrow, or boundary of the]K>inoerium, was marked by stones or cippi. Thename pomoerium was also extended to another openspace witiiin the walls which was kept free frombuildings. The matter is very clearly explained byI.ivy in the following passage:—" Pomoerium. verbivim solum intuentes, postmoerium interpretanturesse. Est autem magis circa murum locus, quernin condendis uibibus olim Etrusci, qua murum due-turi casent, certis circa terminis inaugurato conse-crabaut: ut ncque interiore parte aedifieia moetiibuscontinuareiitur, quae nunc vulgo etiam coujtingunt;et extrin>eeus pun aliquid ab liumano cultu pateretsoli. Hoc spatium, quod nequc li.itatari nequearari fas erat, non magis quod post murum esset,quum quod munis post id, pomoerium Romani ap-pellarunt: et in utbis incremeuto semper, quantummoenia processura erant, tantum termini hi eonse-crati pi'oferebantur" (i. 44). Every city founded,like Rome, after the Etruscan manner, had a po-inoerium. The rites observed in drawing the boun­dary line, called "primigenius sulcus" (Paul. Diac.p. 2.'1G, Mllll.), were as follows: the founder, dressed inGabinian fashion (cinctu Galium), yoked to a plough,on an auspicious day, a bull and a cow, t tie formeron the off »ide, the latter on the near side, and, pro­ceeding always to the left, drew the furrow markingthe boundary of the pomoerium. There was a mys­tical meaning in the ceremony. The bull on theout-ide denoted that the males were to be dreadfulto external enemies, whilst the cow inside typifiedthe women who were to replenish the city with in­habitants. (J..ann. I.ydus, de Mens, iv. 50.) Thefurrow represented the ditch; the clods thrown up,the wall; and persons followed the plough to throwinwards thane cludfl which had fallen outwards. Atthe plates left for the gates, the plough was liftedup and carried over the piotane space. (Van*. /,. L.v. § 143, Mttll.; Plut Q.R. 27, Horn. 11.) Thewhole process has been summed up in the followingvigorous words of Cato: — " Qui urbem novam con-det, tauro et race* aret; ubi araverit, murum faciat;ubi i>ortam vult esse, aratrum sustollat et ]*>rtct,et j«»rtam vocet." (<ip. Isidor. xv. 2, .'J.) The religious use of the poniociiuin was to definethe boundary of the auspicia urbana, or city au­spices. (Varr. I c.) So Gellius, from the books of the Roman augurs: "Pomoerium est lxu3 naagrum eiTatum per totius urbis circuit urn pa* tramregionibus certis detennmatus, qui Cidt UuHurbani auspicii" (z'ui. 14). From this fwort i j appears that the pomoerium itself stoodanother district called the ** agtr effatua"was also merely a religious, or augural, drnsaterritory, and was of five .-. viz. the ager 1man us. Gabinus. peregrinus, bosticus, and ior the Roman, Gabinian, foreign, hostile, mid iterritories. (Varr. r. § 33, WiilL) Theatterritories were called " effati," because thedeclared (effati sunt) after this manner tortof the celestial auguries taken beyond the jnum. (Id. vi. § 53, Mull.) Hence in this »Ager I Ionian us is merely a religions or:division, and must not be confounded with the i 'Komanus in a political sense, or the territory ibelonging to the Roman people. It was thatdeclared by the augurs as that in which jauguries might be taken respecting foreignatary affairs; and hence the reason why we find so mMaccounts of generals returning to Borne to taktfl | auguries afresh. (Liv. via. 30, z. 3, ixii. 19,JIt is impossible to determine exactly how ■space was left for the pomoerium between tatllrow and the wall. In the case of the Laaaicity, however, it was probably not Terr oJsmas the nature of the ground, especially on the jof Mons Caelius, would not allow of acy ddivergence from the base of the hill. Beddta^boundaries already laid down on the N.Sacellum Larum and Aedes Vestae, show that ataflran very close under the Palatine. This <p*4depends upon another, which there is no erJaua]determine satisfactorily, namely, whether ta* 9Jcrowned the summit of the hill or ran aku£ it* *The former arrangement seems theboth because it was the most natural and iof fortification, and because we should <some parts hardly find room enough for the pBesides, one at least of the gates of the Bacity, as wc shall see further on, was appnaatsteps, and must therefore hare stood upon a <There seems to be no good authority for SfidHassumption (IIUt. vol. i. p. 287, set}.) that tb» <■city of Romulus was defended merely by the mof the hill being escarpe>l, and that the Unceflpomoerium was a later enlargement to mfMsuburb which had sprung up round mboattalflIt is surprising how Niebuhr, who bad «■!ground, could imagine that there wis room ftrfla suburb with a pomoerium. Beside*, we *rt jpressly told by Tacitus (/. c.) that the l.rse ailpomoerium which he describes wa» tie Vpjoaflibuilding the city (iuitium condeDdi). Ir.Jcodlbuhr seems to have had some cx.;ra»ri;ury 1respecting the nature of the ground aboaftlPalatine, when lie describes the spare betweesjhill and the Caelius, now occupied by taatlcalled Via di S. Grtgorio, u ht wide an! Ivenient plain!" (Hist i. 390, cf. ju 39l.)_Jobscure tradition is mentioned indeed fcv flwriters, according to which there waa a JjQuadrata distinct from and older than the elRomulus (wpo 5t rqs ^iryoAni Tai/rajr TwumtuTiiK 'PwuvKos irtpl ttji' eawrriiXM mmxtopti UaXar'uff, TeTpaVj-wror ht,;^ 'P»-? 'PtM^iOV f) 'PlL-flOVS WaAOiOTffMV TSVTM*, Ca«s. Fr. Votes. 3, 5, p. 10, St; cf. T^ataeiLycophr. v. 1232). But, as Becker oUerrea (A