OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 283 whose lot Italy fell, should receive two legions fromMarcus Sextius, pretor. 41. Publius Scipio's command in the province ofAfrica was prolonged, with the armies which he thenhad. To Marcus Valerius Falto, pretor, were decreedthe two legions in Bruttium, which Caius Livius hadcommanded the preceding year. Publius jElius, pre­tor, was to receive two legions in Sicily from CneiusTremellius. One legion, which had been under Pub­lius Lentulus, propretor, was decreed to Marcus Fa-bius, for Sardinia. The command in Etruria was con­tinued to Marcus Servilius, consul of the former year,with his own two legions. With regard to Spain, thesenate ordered, that whereas Lucius Cornelius Lentu­lus and Lucius Manlius Acidinus had remained in thatcountry for several years, the consuls should thereforemake application to the tribunes, that, if they thoughtproper, they should ask the people, whom they wouldorder to have charge in Spain; and that the person soordered should collect such a number of Romans outof the two armies as would make up one legion, andas many of the allies of the Latine confederacy aswould form fifteen cohorts; with which he shouldconduct the business of the province; and that Lu­cius Cornelius and Lucius Manlius shall lead homethe veteran soldiers to Italy. To the consul Corneliuswas decreed a squadron of fifty ships out of the twofleets, one of which was under Cneius Octavins inAfrica, the other under Publius Vellius, guarding thecoast of Sicily; with liberty to take such of those ves­sels as he might please. It was also decreed that PubliusScipio should keep the fifty ships of war on his stationas before; and that if Cneius Octavius chose to conti­nue in the command of these as heretofore, he shouldhave it for that year as propretor: that if Laeliusshould be set at the head of the fleet, then Octaviusshould return to Rome, and bring home such ships asthe proconsul had not occasion for. Ten ships of warwere also decreed to Marcus Fabius for Sardinia; andthe consuls were ordered to enlist two legions for the