OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL seconded by favour or merit. The grandsons of the Gauls> whohad besieged Julius Cæsar in Alesia, commanded legions, governedprovinces, and were admitted into the senate of Rome Theirambition, instead of disturbing the tranquillity of the state, was inti­mately connected with its safety and greatness. So sensible were the Romans of the influence of language overnational manners, that it was their most serious care to extend, withthe progress of their arms, the use of the Latin tongue ,7. Theancient dialects of Italy, the Sabine, the Etruscan, and the Vene­tian, sunk into oblivion; but in the provinces, the east was lessdocile than the west, to the voice of its victorious preceptors. Thisobvious difference marked the two portions of the empire with adistinction of colours, which, though it was in some degree con-. cealed during the meridian splendor of prosperity, became graduallymore visible, as the shades of night descended upon the Romanworld. The western countries were civilized by the fame handsAvhich subdued them. As soon as the barbarians were reednciled toobedience, their minds were opened to any new impressions ofknowledge and politeness. The language of Virgil and Cicero,though with some inevitable mixture of corruption, waS so uni­versally adopted in Africa, Spain, Gaul, Britain, and Pannoniathat the faint traces of the Punic or Celtic idioms were preservedonly in the mountains, or among the peasants Education andstudy insensibly inspired the natives of those countries with thesentiments of Romans ; and Italy gave fashions, as well as laws,to her Latin provincials. They solicited with more ardour, andobtained with more facility, the freedom and honours of the state;supported the national dignity in letters*0 and in arms; and, at length,in the person of Trajan, produced an emperor whom the Scipioswould not have disowned for their countryman. The situation 6fthe Greeks was very different from that of the barbarians. Theformer had been long since civilized and corrupted. They had