OCR Output book I. 277 men to act as chance directs and without plan. Quam is omitted inthe MSS., and the reading is doubtful in forte et nulla. Observe theconciseness of adhuc: no plan as yet, sc. matured. 5. Electos Illyrici exercitus. Cf. chap. 6. Celsus had beenan officer in that army. Ann. 15, 25.—Vipsania -portion. A porticobuilt by Vipsanius Agrippa in the field of Mars. Milites, qui extraordinem in urbe erant, agere plerumque solebant in porticibus nuttemplis. Lipsius.—Tendentes, sc. stationem or excubias = stationed. 6. Primlpilaribus, sc. centurionibus. A :iost-Augustan word.The first centurion of the first maniple of the triarii was called atdifferent times, primipilaris, or primipilus, or primi pili centurioCf. Liv. 2, 27. He was intrusted with the care of the eagle, and hadthe right to attend the councils of the general. 1« I,ibertatis atrio. Where they were quartered, as the Illyrianswere in the Vipsanian portico. The word atrium denotes, 1. The openarea, surrounded by a colonnade, in the private houses of the Romans.2. A class of public buildings so called from their general resemblancein construction to the atrium of a private house, sometimes standingby themselves, but more frequently attached to the front of a templeor some other edifice. The atrium Libertatis here meant, was at­tached to the Aedes Libertatis on tho Aventine. Cf. Smith's Diet, ofGr. and Rom. Autiq., word Atrium. 8. Dtffidebat, sc. Piso. Al. diffidebatur, but without MS. authority 9. Trucidaverat Gaiba. Cf. note on chap. 6. 11. SI . ... flecteretur. Ang. to see if it might be turnedaside. It denotes both purpose and contingency, and of course requiresthe subj. So the Greek el, ti,rus. This use of si is more frequent inT. than in other Latin authors. 12. Et necdum. The use of necdum after et is peculiar to thelater Latin. Or. A writer of the Augustan age would have omittedthe et. Cf. Virg. Aen. 11, 70. Dod. speaks of the word itself as outof date. Essay, p. 21. But see examples in Freund, from Cicero aswell as Virgil. 14. Noil ordine militiae. The common explanation of thispassage supplies tribunus factus fuerat: " Because he had been ir­regularly promoted to the tribuneship of the praetorian guards." SoBrotier, Kingsley and many others. But Wr. thinks such an ellipsisinadmissible, and supplies suspectus from the ant. clause: Because hewas not merely suspected, like Subrius and Cetrius, on account ofhis rank and title as tribune (ordine = ob ordinem), but as a friendof Galba, he teas loyal to his prince and thus still more an object ofsuspicion. IT. Ingestis pUis. Al. infestis. By pouring in their lancesupon him, they drive him away, compel him to retire. 18. Germanic* vexilla. The word vcxillum, whose meaning,