OCR Output 9 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIL were not concealed from Salome, but were told the king ; asalso how ;hey I- id perverted some persons about the palaceitself: so the kmg slew such of the Pharisees as were princi­pally a<- , ised, and Bagoas the eunuch, and one Cams, whoexceede i all trie'1 of that time in comeliness, and one that washis catai'nte. He slew also all those of his own family whohad consente.1 to what the Pharisees foretold; and for Bagoas,he had been puffed up by them, as though he should be na­med the father and the benefactor of him who, by the pre­diction, was foretold to be their appointed king ; for thatthis king would have all things in his power, and would en-ablt Bagoas to marry, and to have children of his own bodybegotten. CHAP. III.4 Concerning the enmity lctwcei\ Herod and PJjeroras ; bow: Herodsent Antipater to desar ; and of the death of Pheroras. $ 1. 'VI/'HEN Herod had punished those Pharisees who hadbeen convicted of the foregoing crimes, he gather­ed an assembly together of his friends, and accused Pheroras'swife ; and ascribing the abuses of the virgins to the impu­dence of that woman, brought an accusation against her forthe dishonour she had brought upon them : That " she had" studiously introduced a quarrel between him and his bro." ther, and, by her ill temper, had brought them into a state" of war, both by her words and actions ; that the fines which" he had laid had not been paid, and the offenders had" escaped punishment by her means ; and that nothing which'" had of late been done had been done without her : for which'«« reason Pheroras would do well, if he would, of his own«' accord, and by his own command, and not at my intreaty," or as following my opinion, put this his wife away, as one" that will still be the occasion of war between thee and me." And now, Pheroras, if thou valuest thy relation to me, put" this wife of thine away ; for by this means thou wilt con-" tinue to be a brother to me, and wilt abide in thy love to" me." Then said Pheroras, (although he were pressedhard by the former words), that tl as he would not do so un-" just a thing as to renounce his brotherly relation to him, so«' would he not leave off his affection for his wife ; that he" would rather chuse to die than to live, and be deprived of«' a wife that was so dear unto him." Hereupon Herod put off