OCR Output 240 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. "this sacred oak, and whatever divinity resides in it,"bate.witness to your breach of treaty; may they pay"more regard to our just complaints, and by and by"prosper our arms, when we shall take you to a severe"account for your violation of the laws of gods and men."The moment the ambassadors were returned to Rome,the senate ordered one of the consuls to march with anarmy to. the Algidus,-against Gracchus, and the otherto lay waste the territories of the .ffiqui. The tribunes,as usual, opposed the levies at first, and miglit have doneso to the last, but for a fresh aud sudden alarm. CHAP. XXVI. Minucius besieged in his camp Cincinnatus createddictator. A SWARM of Sabines drove like an inundation, ravag足ing all before them, almost to the walls of Rome. TheRoman lands were laid waste, and in the city there wasgreat consternation. The people then cheerfully tookarms, and in spire of all the remonstrances of the tribunes,two formidable armies were levied. Nautius led one ofthem against the Sabines, and encamped at Eretum,whence he sent out small detachments, and these gene足rally in the night, by which he committed such terribledevastations, that comparatively speaking, what the Ro足mans had suffered bore no proportion. But Minutius in his expedition, had neither the samespirit, nor the same good fortune: for, having encamp足ed not far from the enemy, although he had met with noextraordinary check, he kept within his camp for fear.The enemy, the moment they observed his cowardice,began, as it generally happens, to pull up a prodigious(low of spirits. Thus animated, they attacked his campin'the night, but finding they could make no impressionby open force, drew lines round it the next day. Beforethey had finished their circumvallation, and blocked upevery avenue, five horsemen, who had been dispatchedon purpose, escaped the vigilance of the enemy's cen-tries, and carried the news to Rome, that the consul andhis army were besieged in their camp. This intclli-