OCR Output B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 75 cedaemon. A battle was fought within the precinctsof Argos, in which the people was the victor: Someof their opponents they flew, and others they doomedto perpetual exile. The Lacedæmonians, when theiradherents implored their succour, were too dilatory inmoving; but at last they adjourned the games, andmarched away to their support; and hearing, whenthey were come to Tegea, that "the few were vanquish- ed," they determined to proceed no farther, maugreall the intreaties of the new exiles; but, retreating forth­with toSparta,they resumed the celebration of the games.Yet, being afterwards attended by deputations fromthose in Argos, as well as by such as had been latelybanished, in the presence of the whole confederacy, af­ter many arguments had been urged on both sides, theycame to a resolution, that *' the Argives in the city** were guilty of injustice;" and a decree was pasted,that "they should march against Argos." But, afterall, their proceedings were dilatory and remiss. In the mean time, the people of Argos, dreading theLacedæmonian strength, and re-addresling themselves3gain to Athens for a renewal of alliance, and proceed­ing to execute a plan which they thought the strongestexpedient of preservation, built long walls quite downto the sea, that, in case they should be blocked up byJand, all proper supplies might be thrown into the cityby sea, through the good offices of the Athenians. Tothis scheme of new fortifications some cities also of Pe­loponnesus were privy underhand. The whole bodyof the Argives without distinction, the citizens, theirwives, and their servants, forwarded the work; andfrom Athens they were supplied with carpenters andmasons. And here the summer ended. Winter now succeeding, the Lacedæmonians, whenadvertised of these new fortifications, marched their for­ces against Argos, their own, and all those of their al.lies, excepting the Corinthian. Some new projects infheir favour were now also in agitation within Argos it­self.