OCR Output Chap. I. THE ANTIQJJITIES Of THE JEWS. ' . S preventing his pernicious designs. Although Antipafer'suncle by the mother's side were married to her daughter, and,this by his own connivance and management, while she hadbefore been married to Aristobulus, and while Salome's otherdaughter by that husband were married to the son of Calleas ;yet that marriage was no obstacle to her, who knew howwicked he was, in her discovering his designs, as her formerkindred to him could not prevent her hatred of him. NowHerod had compelled Salome, while she was in love with Syl-leus the Arabian, and had taken a fondness for him, to marryAlexas.; which match was by her submitted to at the instanceof Julia, who persuaded Salome not to refuse it, lest she shouldherself be their open enemy, since Herod had sworn that hewould never be friends with Salome, if she would not acceptof Alexas for her husband ; so she submitted to Julia as beingCaesar's wife, and, besides that, she advised her to nothingbut what was very much for her own advantage. At thistime,' also, it was that Herod sent back King Archelaus'sdaughter, who had been Alexander's wife, to her father, re­turning tiie portion he had with her out of his own estate, thatthere might be no dispute between them about it. Now 'Herod brought up his son's children with great care ;for Alexander had two sons by Glaphyra ; and Aristobulushad three sons by Bernice, Salome's daughter, and two daugh­ters ; and, as his friends were one with him, he presented thechildren before them ; and deploring the hard fortune of hisown sons, he prayed that no such ill fortune would befal thesewho were their children, but that they might improve in vir­tue, and obtain what they justly deserved, and might makehim amends for his care of their education. He also causedthem to be betrothed against they should come to the properage of marriage ; the .elder of Alexander's sons to Pheroras'sdaughter, and Antipater's daughter to Aristobulus's eldestson. He also allotted one of Aristobulus's daughters to An­tipater's son, and Aristobulus's other daughter to Herod, ason of his own, who was born to him by the high-priest'sdaughter ; for it is the ancient practice among us to havemany wives at the same time. Now, the king made theseespousals for the children, out of commiseration of them nowthey were fatherless, as endeavouring to render Antipater kindto them by these intermarriages. But Antipater did not fail'to bear the same temper of mind to his brothers' children,which he had borne to his brothers themselves ; and his fa­ther's concern about them provoked his indignation against•them upon this supposal, that they would become greater than A 2 , ever