OCR Output 74 Book XVIII. ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. to this history, to speak of that matter, and partly because thisthing is a demonstration of the interposition of Providence, howa multitude of children is of no advantage, no more than anyother strength that mankind set their hearts upon, besides thoseacts of piety which are done towards God : for it happened, that,within the revolution of an hundred years, the posterity of He­rod, which were a great many in number, were, excepting a few,utterly destroyed *. One may well apply this^ for the instrucrtion of mankind, and learn thence how unhappy they were ; itwill also shew us the history of Agrippa, who, as he was a per­son most worthy of admiration, so was he from a private man,beyond all the expectation of those that knew him, advanced togreat power and authority. I have said something of them for,merly, but I shall now also speak accurately about them. 4. Herod the Great had two daughters by Mariamne, the[grand] daughter of Hyrcanus ; the one was Salampsio, whowas married to Phasaelus, her first cousin, who was himself thefon of Phasaelus, Herod's brother, her- father making the match ;the other was Cypros, wfio was herself married also to her firstcousin Antipater, the son of Salome, Herod's sister. Phasaelushad five children by Salampsio, Antipater, Herod, and Alexan­der, and two daughters, Alexandra, and Cypros, which last A-grippa, the son of Aristobulus, married, and Timius of Cyprusmarried Alexandra ; he was a man of note, but had by her nochildren. Agrippa had by Cypros two sons, and three daugh­ters, which daughters were named Bernice, Mariamne, and Dru-silla ; but the names of the sons were Agrippa, and Drusus, ofwhich Drusus died before he came to the years of puberty ; buttheir father, Agrippa, was brought up with his other brethren,Herod and Aristobulus, for these were also the sons of the sonof Herod the Great, by Bernice ; but Bernice was the daughterof Costobarus and of .Salome, who was Herod's sister. Aristo­bulus left these infants, when he was slain by his father, to­gether with his brother Alexander, as we have already related.But when they were arrived at years of puberty, this Herod, thebrother of Agrippa, married Mariamne, the daughter of Olym-pias, who was the daughter of Herod the king, and of Joseph,the son of Joseph, who was brother to Herod the king, and hadby her a son, Aristobulus ; but Aristobulus, the third brotherof Agrippa, married Jotape, the daughter of Sampsigeramus, . ' - - - king * Whether this sudden extinction of almost the entire lineage cf Hercd theGreat, which was very numerous., as we are both here and in the next sectioninl'ormcd, was not in pari as a punishment lor the gross incests they were fre.quently guilty of, in marrying their own nephews and nieces, well deserves to beConsidered. See Levit. xviii. 6. 7. xxi. 10. ar.d Noidius, De Herod, No. 26.9,^o.