OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CMA,?. XLI. ed into the ditch on the heads of the besiegers.6 Toeach of his lieutenants, Belisarius assigned the defence ofa gate, with the wise and peremptory instruction, that,whatever might be the alarm, they should steadily adhereto their respective posts, and trust their general for thesafety of Rome. The formidable host of the Goths wasinsufficient to embrace the ample measure of the city; ofthe fourteen gates, seven only were invested from thePraenestine to the Flaminian way; and Vitiges dividedhis troops into six camps, each of which was fortifiedwith a ditch and rampart. On the Tuscan side of theriver, a seventh encampment was formed in the field orcircus of the Vatican, for the important purpose of com­manding the Milvian bridge and the course of the Tiber;but they approached with devotion the adjacent churchof St. Peter; and the threshold of the holy apostles wasrespected during the siege by a Christian enemy. In theages of victory, as often as the senate decreed some dis­tant conquest, the consul denounced hostilities, by un­barring, in solemn pomp, the gates of the temple of Ja­nus.1" Domestic war now rendered the admonitionsuperfluous, and the ceremony was superseded by theestablishment of a new religion. But the brazen templeof Janus was left standing in the Forum, of a size suf­ficient only to contain the statue of the god, five cubitsin height, of a human form, but with two faces, directedto the east and west. The double gates were likewiseof brass; and a fruitless effort to turn them on their rustyhinges, revealed the scandalous secret, that some Romanswere still attached to the superstition of their ancestors.a Eighteen days were employed by the besiegers, to 8 ° Praxiteles excelled in Fauns, and that of Athens was his own master-piece.Rome now contains above thirty of the same oharacter. When the ditch of St. Angelowas cleansed under Urban VIII., the workmen found the sleeping Faun of the Bar-berini palace: but a leg, a thigh, and the right arm, had been broken from that beau­tiful statue. (Winckeluian, Hist, de I'Art.tom. 2. p. St,S3, torn. 5. p. 265.) P Procopios has given the best description of the temple of Janus, a national deityof Latium. (Hevne, Excurs. 5.ad lib. 7. JEneid.) It was once a gate in the primi­tive city of Romulus and Numa. (Nardini, p. 15. 256. 529.) Virgil has describedthe ancient rite, like a poet and an -antiquarian.