OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. Italy. Afterwards, on the pretov's assuring them thatServilius would pay no regard to his letter, PubliusSulpicius, being created dictator for the purpose, re­called the consul, by virtue of his superior authority;and then, with Marcus Servilius, master of the horse,he spent the remainder of the year in going round tothe cities which had forfeited their allegiance duringthe war, and examining into the conduct of each.During the continuance of the truce a hundred trans­ports, with stores, under the convoy of twenty ships ofwar, sent from Sardinia by Lentulus, the pretor, ar­rived safe in Africa, without meeting any obstructioneither from the enemy or bad weather. Cneius Octa-vius, who sailed from Sicily with two hundred trans­ports and thirty ships of war, had not the same goodfortune. His voyage was prosperous until he camealmost within sight of Africa, when the wind at firstsubsided into a calm; then springing up heavily fromthe south-west, his ships were dispersed on all sides.He himself, with the ships of war, struggling throughthe opposing waves, with excessive toil to the rowers,made the promontory of Apollo: the transports weremost of them driven to jEgimurus, an island stretch­ing across the mouth of the bay on which Carthagestands, distant from the city about thirty miles; therest towards that part of it where the hot-baths arefound. All this happened within view of Carthage,and occasioned a concourse of people from all parts inthe forum. The magistrates assembled the senate;the multitude in the porch of the senate-house ex­pressed aloud their uneasiness, lest so great a bootyshould be allowed to escape out of their hands. Al­though some objected that their faith was pledged inhaving sued for peace, others in their having agreed toa truce, and which had not yet expired, yet the assem­bly, being composed of nearly ,an equal number of thepopulace as of senators, came to a resolution that Has-drubal should go to jEgimurus with a fleet of fiftysail, and proceed from thence to pick up the scatteredships of the Romans in the several harbors and alongliv. vol. v. R