OCR Output 466 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. closed by the execution of the emperor himself, in thetwentieth year of his reign, and the sixty-third year ofhis age. The bodies of the father and his five sonswere cast into the sea, their heads were exposed at Con­stantinople to the insults or pity of the multitude, andit was not till some signs of putrefaction had appeared,that Phocas connived at the private burial of these vene­rable remains. In that grave, the faults and errors ofMaurice were kindly interred. His fate alone "was re­membered; and at the end of twenty years, in the re­cital of the history of Theophylact, the mournful talewas interrupted by the tears of the audience."Phocas Such tears must have flowed in secret; and such com-a. d. 602, passion would have been criminal, under the reign ofa.°d. 6uo, Phocas, who was peaceably acknowledged in the pro-october 4. yinces of the east and west. The images of the emperorand his wife Leontia were exposed in the Lateran to theveneration of the clergy and senate of Rome, and after­ward deposited in the palace of the Caesars, between. those of Constaritine and Theodosius. As a subject anda Christian, it was the duty of Gregory to acquiesce inthe established government, but the joyful applause withwhich he salutes the fortune of the assassin, has sulliedwith indelible disgrace the character of the saint. Thesuccessor of the apostles might have inculcated with de­cent firmness the guilt of blood, and the necessity of re­pentance: he is content to celebrate the deliverance ofthe people and the fall of the oppressor; to rejoice thatthe piety and benignity of Phocas have been raised byProvidence to the imperial throne; to pray that hishands may be strengthened against all his enemies; andto express a wish, perhaps a prophecy, that after a longand triumphant reign, he may be transferred from atemporal to an everlasting kingdom .b I have already » The revolt of Phocas and death of Maurice are told by Theopbvlact Simoca1ta,(lib. 8. c. 7—18.) the Paschal Chronicle, (p. 379, 380.1 Thecipl■anes, (Chrono­graph, p. 238—244.) Zonaras, (tom. 2. lib. 14. p. 77—80.) and Cedrenua. (p. 399—404.V * Gregor. lib. 11. epist. 38. indict. 6. Benignitatem, vestroe pietatisad imperiale