OCR Output 568 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now there was one of these Essenes, whosename was Manahem; who had this testimony,that he not only conducted his life after anexcellent manner, but had the foreknow­ledge of future events given by God. Thisman once saw Herod, when he was a child,and going to school; and saluted him as kingof the Jews. But he thinking that either hedid not know him, or that he was in jest, re­minded him that he was but a private person.But Manahem smiled to himself, and clappedhim on the back with his hand; and said,"However that be, thou wilt be king, andwilt begin thy reign happily; for God findsthee worthy of it, and do thou remember theblows that Manahem hath given thee; as be­ing a signal of the change of thy fortune.And truly this will be the best reasoning forthee; that thou love justice towards men,and piety towards God, and clemency to­wards thy citizens. Yet do 1 know how thywhole conduct will be; that thou wilt not besuch an one. For thou wilt excel all men inhappiness, and obtain an everlasting reputa­tion; but wilt forget piety and righteousness.And those crimes will not be concealed fromGod, at the conclusion of thy life; when thouwilt find that he will be mindful of them, andpunish thee for them." At that time Heroddid not attend to what Manahem said: ashaving no hopes of such advancement. Buta little afterward, when he was so fortunateas to be advanced to the dignity of king, and-was in the height of his dominion, he sent forManahem, and asked him, how long he should reign ? But Manahem did not tell him the full length of his reign. Wherefore, upon thatsilence of his, he asked him farther, whetherhe should reign ten years or not? he replied,"Yes, twenty, nay, thirty years;"but did notassign the just limit of his reign. Herod wassatisfied with these replies: and gave Mana­hem his hand, and dismissed him: and fromthat time he continued to honour all the Es­senes. We have thought it proper to relate * Of this temple of Herod, see my description of theJewish temples, in the scheme relating to this work,chap. 15. Only we may here farther observe, that thefancy of the modern Jews, in calling this, which wasreally the third of their temples, the second temple, fol­lowed so long by later Christians seems to be without anysolid foundation. The reason why the Christians herefollow the Jews is because of the prophecy of Haggai,ii. 6—9, which they expound of the Messiah's coming to these facts to our readers, how strange soeverthey be; and to declare what hath happenedamong us; because many of these Esseneshave, by their excellent virtue, been thoughtworthy of this knowledge of divine revelation. CHAP. XI. OF THE REBUILDING AND BEAUTIFYING OF THE TEMPLE;AND OF THE TOWER OF ANTONIA. IN the eighteenth year of his reign, andafter the acts already mentioned, Herodundertook to rebuild of himself the *templeof God, and make it larger in compass, andto raise it to a most magnificent altitude; asesteeming it to be the most glorious of all hisactions as it really was, to bring it to perfec­tion; and that this would be sufficient for aneverlasting memorial of him. But as he knewthe multitude were not ready nor willing toassist in so vast a design; he thought it ad­visable to prepare them first by making aspeech to them; and then to set about thework itself. So he called them together, andspake thus: "I think I need not remind you my coun­trymen, of such other works as I have done,since I came to the kingdom: although I maysay they have been performed in such a man­ner as to bring more security to you thanglory for myself. For I have neither beennegligent in the most difficult times aboutwhat tended to ease your necessities: norhave the buildings I have made been so pro­per to preserve me, as yourselves, from inju­ries. And I imagine that, with God's assist­ance, I have advanced the nation of the Jewsto a degree of happiness which they neverhad before. And for the particular edificesbelonging to your own country and your owncities; as also to those cities that we havelately acquired, which we have erected, andgreatly adorned, and thereby augmented thedignity of your nation; it seems to me aneedless task to enumerate them; since you the second or Zorobabel's temple; of which they supposethis of Herod's to be only a continuation, which is meant,I think, of his coming to the fourth and last temple, or tothat future largest and most glorious one described by Eze-kiel. Whence I take the former notion, how generalsoever, to be a great mistake. See the Testament ofBenjamin, § in the Authent. Rec. page 406, and Lit. Ac-compl. of Proph. page 24, 25. i