OCR Output Chnp. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JF.W8. 179 may well wonder at this concerning the misfortune that befellthe forces commanded by Joseph and Azarias, which he under­stood would happen, if they broke any of the injunctions he hadgiven them. But Judas and his brethren, did not leave off fight­ing with the Idumeans, but pressed upon them on all sides, andtook from them the city of Hebron, and demolished all its forti­fications, and set all its towers on fire, and burnt the country ofthe foreigners, and the city Marissa. They came also to Ash-dod, and took it, and laid it waste, and took away a great dealof the spoils and prey that were in it, and returned to Judea. CHAP. IX. Concerning the death of Antiochus Epiphanes. How AntiochusEupator fought against Judas, and besieged him in the temple,and afterwards made peace with him and departed. Of Alci-mus and Onias. § 1. ABOUT this time it was that king Antiochus, as he wasgoing over the upper countries, heard, that there was a veryrich city in Persia, called Etymais ,' and therein a very richtemple of Diana, and that it was full of all sorts of donationsdedicated to it; as also weapons and breastplates, which,upon inquiry, he found had been left there by Alexander,the son of Philip, king of Macedonia. And being incited bythese motives, he went in haste to Elymais, and assaulted it, andbesieged it. But as those that were in it were not terrified athis assault, nor at his siege, but opposed him very courageously,he was beaten off his hopes; for they drove him away from thecity, and went out and pursued after him; insomuch that he fledaway as far as Babylon, and lost a great many of his army. Andwhen he was grieving for this disappointment, some personstold him of the defeat of his commanders whom he had left behindhim to fight against Judea, and what strength the Jews hadalready gotten: When this concern about these affairs was addedto the former, he was confounded, and by the anxiety he was in,fell into a distemper, which, as it lasted a great while, and as hispains increased upon him, so he at length perceived he shoulddie in a little time; so he called his friends to him, and toldthem, thathisdistemperwas severe upon him; and confessed with­al, that this calamity was sent upon him for the miseries he hadbrought upon the Jewish nation, while he plundered their tem­ple, and contemned their God, and when he had said this, hegave up the ghost. Whence one may wonder at Polybius ofMegalopolis, who, though otherwise a good man, yet saith,That " Antiochus died because he had a purpose to plunderVOL. n. z 21