OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 151 during the suspension of hostilities the chief business of theRoman soldiery, but not a few officers and soldiers had aswell as their generals entered into secret understandingwith the enemy. It is easy to see that such an army coulddo nothing in the field; and if Jugurtha on this occa­sion bribed the Roman general into inaction, as was after­wards judicially asserted against the latter, he did intruth what was superfluous. Spurius" Albinus thereforecontented himself with doing nothing. On the other handhis brother who after his departure assumed the interimcommand—the equally foolhardy and incapable Aulus Pos-tumius—in the middle of winter fell on the idea of seizingby a bold coup de main the treasures of the king, which werekept in the town of Suthul (afterwards Calama, nowGuelma) difficult of access and still more difficult of con­quest. The army set out thither and reached the town ; butthe siege was unsuccessful and without prospect of result,and, when the king who had remained for a time with histroops in front of the town went into the desert, theRoman general preferred to pursue him. This was pre­cisely what Jugurtha intended ; in a nocturnal assault, whichwas favoured by the difficulties of the ground and thesecret understanding which Jugurtha had with some in theRoman army, the Numidians captured the Roman camp,and drove the Romans, many of whom were unarmed, beforethem in the most complete and disgraceful rout. The con- Capitula-sequence was a capitulation, the terms of which—the march- tion of theing off of the Roman army under the yoke, the immediate Romans.evacuation of the whole Numidian territory, and the re- ^newal of the treaty cancelled by the senate—were dictatedby Jugurtha and accepted by the Romans (in the beginningof 645). "109. This was too much to be borne. While the Africans Pissatisfac-were exulting and the prospect—thus suddenly opened up tion in tile—of such an overthrow of the alien domination as had c"P,tal.been reckoned scarcely possible was bringing numeroustribes of the free and half-free inhabitants of the desertto the standards of the victorious king, public opinion inItaly was vehemently aroused against the equally corruptand pernicious governing aristocracy, and broke out in astorm of prosecutions which, fostered by the exasperation ofthe mercantile class, swept away a succession of victimsfrom the highest circles of the nobility. On the proposal