OCR Output ITALIA.73 ITALIA. 1 Namk. Th» txct of Italy was very far from being ori-r*aih" applied in the same exten.sirc significationwfcich k afterwards obtained. It was confined, inlis ant inatanee, to the extreme southern pointu th» jtauaii peninsula, not including even thevt« of the modem Calabria, but only the southernpssiiUr partion of that country, bounded on the>.S» the Borrow itihinns which separates the Teri-uil aaii ScyKrtian gulfs. Such was the distinct£tiraKEt Antiochua of Syracuse (ap. Strab, vi.{. 352); nor hare we any reason to reject his testi- * a;«;3 t>iii point, though it is certain that thissap unit ban ceased long before the time of that•aloraa, atJ is not found in any extant ancientfjxr At a autk<eqaent period, but still in veryit:; tu^s, the appellation was extended to the•hJt tract along the shores of the Tarentine gulf,ti iV 13 .Veu^iatum, and from thence across to ther^i f ^"ujouia on the western sea; though, ac--fia^ tu «*iier statements the river Laiis was itsaasaca unit on this aide. (Strab. v. p. 209, vi.} ;Aniwcbos, ap. Dkmys. i. 73.) This appears - attr b*a the established usage among the Greeksa u* fifth century B. c. Antiochus expressly ex- tut lapygian peninsula from Italy, and Thn-ruaW dearly adopts the same distinction (vii. 33).\* &«3thes on the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea,4 the IVaidocian gulf, were then known onlys» tht tna of Opica and Tyrrhenia; tlm- Thu-c/js* caiia Comae a city in Opicia, and AristotleH"» i Latitrai as a district of Opica. Even Theo-;-rv*aa proems the distinction, and speaks ofpc^trets cif Italy, where those of the lirut-Ua aoiataiai only can be meant, as opposed toaf Latiajn (Thuc vi 4; Arist. ap. Dionys. * rj; Tkrophr. B. P. T. 8.) '-* S4.'n*r of Italia, aa thus applied, seems to have'-s rtxurnuua with that of Oenotria; for Antic---.s. ir, the same passage where he assigned the^r ^ni u.tJu to the former appellation, confined^at af Oosetria within the same boundaries, and■*** af the Oenotri and Itati as the same people£»-e». vi. p. 254: ap. Dionys. I 12). This is - aa>rt accordance with the statements which re-**ae the Oenotrians ms assuming the name of (Itajij from a chief uf the name of 1 talus'•bin. i. 12, 35; Virg. Aen. i. 533; Arist. Pol■a 1UX a* well aa with the mythical genealogy ac-Tiaf tt which I talus and Oenotrus were brothers.1 Jrn. saf Jea. it). Thucydides, who represents■ *£a a cuaam; from Arcadia (vi. 2), probablylis iatt tradition, for the Oenotrians were~mlr represented as of Arcadian origin. YYne-tat two names were originally applied to thelawk, or (as is perhaps more probable) the~i »er- »3>1t a particular tribe of the Oenotrians,t-jmt tmm gradually prevailed till it was extended1* Thok psupie, we have no means of determin--XL Bat ia thjs case, as in most others, it is cleartat tacat of the people was antecedent to that * 'hi casay, and that I talis, in its original sipni-tafca. coat rarely the land of the ltali; though * i uta ptriod. by its gradual extension, it hod lost this national meaning. It is im-fir aj to trace with accuracy the suc-*t*ja of this extension, nor do wc know at'- -a* tae Romans first adopted the name ofthat of the whole peninsula. It would bem» ticreetiog to know whether they received this nsage from the Greeks, or found it already pre­valent among the nations of Italy; but it is difficultto believe that tribes of different races, origin, andlanguage, as the Etruscans, Unibrians, Sabcllians,and Oenotrians, would have concurred in calling thecountry they inhabited by one general appellation.If the Greek account already given, according towhich the name was first given to the Oenotrianpart of the peninsula, is worthy of confidence, it musthave been a word of Pclasgic origin, and subsequentlyadopted by the Sabellian and Oscan races, as wellas by the Romans themselves. The etymology of the name is wholly uncertain.The current tradition among the Greeks and Komans,as already noticed, derived it from an Oenotrian orPelasgic cliief, Italus; but this is evidently a merefiction, like that of so many other eponymous heroes.A more learned, but scarcely more trustworthy, ety­mology derived the name from Italos or Itulos,which, in Tyrrhenian or old Greek, is said to havesipiified an ox; so that Italia would have meant"the land of cattle.'' (Timaeus, ap. Cell. xi. 1;Varr. It. R. ii. 1. § 9.) The ancient form herecited is evidently connected with the Latin "vi-tulus ;" and it is probable that the name of thepeople was originally Vitulos, or Vitalos, in its Pe­lasgic form; we find the same form retained by theSabellian nations as late as the first century B. c,when the Samnite denarii (struck during the SocialWar. b. c. 90—88) have the inscription "Vitelu"for Italia. It is probable that the rapid extension of thoRoman power, and the successive subjugation of thedifferent nations of Central and Southern Italy byits victorious arms, tended also to promote the ex­tension of the one common namo to the whole; andthere seems little doubt that as early as the time ofPyrrhus, this was already applied in nearly the samescn>e as afterwards continued to be the usage,—ascomprising the whole Italian peninsula to the fron­tiers of Cisalpine Gaul, but excluding the lattercountry, as well as Liguria. This continued to bothe customary and official meaning of the name ofItaly from this time till the close of the Republic;and hence, even after the First Triumvirate, GalliaCisalpina, as well as Transalpina, was allotted toCaesar as his province, a term which was never ap­plied but to countries out of Italy; but long beforethe close of this period, the name of Italy wouldseem to have been often employed in its more exten­sive, and what may be termed its geographical,meaning, as including the whole land from the footof the Alps to the Sicilian straits. Polybius cer­tainly uses the term in this sense, for he speaks ofthe Romans as having subdued all Italy, except theland of the Gauls (Gallia Cisalpina), and repeatedlydescribes Hannibal as crossing the Alps into Italy,and designates the plains on the banks of the Padusas in Italy. (Pol. i. 6, ii. 14, iii. 39, 54.) Thenatural limits of Italy are indeed so clearly markedand so obvious, that as soon as the name came to boonce received as the designation of the country ingenera], it was almost inevitable that it should ac­quire this extension; hence, though the official dis­tinction between Italy and Cisalpine Gaul was re­tained by the Romans to the very end of the Republic,it is clear that the more extended use of the namewas already familiar in common usage. Thus, al­ready in b. c. 76, Pompeius employs the expression"in ccrvicibus Italiae," of the passes of the Alps intoCisalpine Gaul (Sail, llitl. iii. 11): and Decimus. liiu-