OCR Output 304 ,. bECLINE AND PALt fjOHAP. XLIV. property. bis acts till he accomplished the full period of twenty-five years. Women were condemned to the perpetualtutelage of parents, husbands, or guardians \ a sex createdto please and obey was never supposed to have attainedthe age of reason and experience. Such at least was thestern and haughty spirit of the ancient law, which hadbeen insensibly mollified before the time of Justinian,ti. op ;II. The original right of property can only be justifiedRight of by the accident or merit of prior occupancy; and onthis foundation it is wisely established by the philoso­phy of the civilians.7 The savage who hollows a tree,inserts a sharp stone into a wooden handle, or applies astring to an elastic branch, becomes in a state of naturethe just proprietor of the canoe, the bow, or the hatchet..The materials were common to all; the new form, theproduce of his time and simple industry, belongs solely tohimself. His hungry brethren cannot, without a senseof their own injustice, extort from the hunter the gameof the forest overtaken or slain by his personal strengthand dexterity. If his provident care preserves and mul­tiplies the tame animals, whose nature is tractable to thearts of education, he acquires a perpetual title to the useand service of their numerous progeny, which derives itsexistence from him alone. If he incloses and cultivatesa field for their sustenance and his own, a barren waste isconverted into a fertile soil; the seed, the manure, thelabour, create a new value, and the rewards of harvestare painfully earned by the fatigues of the revolving year.In the successive states of society, the hunter, the shep­herd, the husbandman, may defend their possessions bytwo reasons which forcibly appeal to the feelings of thehuman mind—that whatever they enjoy is the fruit oftheir own industry ; and that every man who envies theirfelicity, may purchase similar acquisitions by the exer- J Institut. lib. 2. tit. 1, 2. Compare the pare and precise reasoning of Cain*and Heineccius (lib. 2. tit. 1. p. 69—91.) with the loose prolixity of Theophilm,(p. 207—265.)The opinions of Uipian are presorted in the Fandects. (lib. 1. tit. 8.leg. 41. no. I.)