OCR Output 48 LIVY. case, the entrails, being imperfect and foul, offeredno very happy presages. 27. But the consul Marcellus was possessed withsuch a passionate desire for a trial of strength withHannibal, that he never thought his own camp closeenough to his; and on this occasion, as he was passingthe rampart, he left directions that every soldiershould be ready in his place, in order that, if the hillwhich they were going to examine, should be approvedof, the whole might strike their tents, and follow themthither. In front of the camp was a small plain, andthe road, leading thence to the hill, was open on allsides, and exposed to view. A watchman whom theNumidians had posted, not in expectation of an oppor­tunity so important as this, but with the hope of cut­ting off any party that might straggle too far in searchof wood or forage, gave them the signal to rise at oncefrom their concealments. Those who were to comeforth from the summit and meet the enemy in frontdid not show themselves until the others, who wereto inclose them on the rear, had got round. Then allsprung forward from every side, and raising a shout,made a furious onset. Though the consuls were sosituated in the valley that they could neither forcetheir way up the hill, which was occupied by theenemy, nor, surrounded as they were, effect a retreat,the dispute might nevertheless have been protractedfor a longer time, bad not the Etrurians began to fly,and thereby filled the rest with dismay. However, theFregellans, though abandoned by the Etrurians, didnot give up the contest, as long as the consuls re­mained unhurt; who, by their exhortations, and theirown personal exertions, supported the spirit of the fight jbut, afterwards, seeing both the consuls wounded, andMarcellus pierced through with a lance, and fallinglifeless from his horse, then the few betook themselvesto flight, carrying with them Crispinus, who had re­ceived two wounds from javelins, and young Marcel­lus, who was also hurt. One of the military tribunes,Aulus Manlius, was slain: of the two prefects of the