OCR Output JERUSALEM. 29 IGILIUM. furais a small plain, which is cultivated by thevillagers of Sileam. In the mouth of the southern valley which formsthe continuation of these three valleys towards theDead Sea, is a deep well, variously called the Wellof Xrhrmiah, of Job, or Joab; supposed to beidentical with Enrogel, "the well of the spies,"mentioned in the borders of Judah and Benjamin,and elsewhere (Josh. xv. 7, xviii. 16; 2 Sam. xvii. 17;1 Kings, i. 9). On the opposite side of the valley, over against theMount of Offence, is another high rocky hill, facingMount Sion, called the Hill of Evil Council,from a tradition that the house of Annas the high-priest, father-in-law to Caiaphas (St. John, xviii. 13,24), once occupied this site. There is a curiouscoincidence with this in a notice of Josephus, who,in his account of the wall of circumvallation, mentionsthe monument of Ananus in this part (v. 12. § 2);which monument has lately been identified with anancient rock-grave of a higher class,—the Aceldamaof ecclesiastical tradition,—a little below the ruinsou this hill; which is again attested to be "the Potter'sField," by a stratum of white clay, which is stillworked. (Schultz, Jerusalem, p. 39.) This grave is one of a series of sepulchres ex­cavated in the lower part of this hill ; among whichare several bearing Greek inscriptions, of which allthat is clearly intelligible are the words THC.AITAC. ClaN., indicating that they belonged toinhabitants or communities in Jerusalem. (See theInscriptions in Krafft, and the comments on hisdecipherments in the Holy City, Memoir, pp. 56—60). Higher up the Valley of Hinnom is a large andvery ancient pool, now called the Sultan's (Birketj-es-Sw/fac).from the fact that it was repaired, and adornedwith a handsome fountain, by Sultan Suliman Ibn-S*h'm,1520—1566, the builder of the present city-wall. It is, however, not only mentioned in the medi­aeval notices of the city, but is connected by Nehemiahwith another antiquity in the vicinity, called Kn-nebiDaid. On Mount Sion, immediately above, and tothe east of the pool, is a large and irregular mass ofbonding, supposed by Christians, Jews, and Moslems,to contain the Tomb of David, and of his successorsthe kings of Judah. It has been said that M. deSaufcv has attempted an elaborate proof of the iden­tity of the Tombs of the Kings, at the head of theValley of Jehoshaphat, with the Tomb of David.His theory is inadmissable ; for it is clear, from thenotices of Nehemiah, that the Sepulchres of Davidwere not far distant from the Pool of " Siloah," closeto " the pool that was made,"and, consequently, on thatpart of Mnuxtt Sion where they are now shown. (Are-Am. in. 16—19.) The memory of David's tombwas still preserved until the destruction of Jerusalem(Joaaphus, Ant. xiii. 8. § 4, xvi. 7. § 1; Acts, ii. 29),and is noticed occasionally in the middle ages. (SeeHobj City, vol. ii. pp. 505 — 513.) In the same pileof buildinga, now occupied by the Moslems, is shownthe Coenaculum where our Lord is said to have in­stituted the Last Supper. Epiphanius mentions thatthis charch was standing when Hadrian visited Jeru­salem (Pond, et Mens. cap. xiv.), and there St. Cyrildelivered some of his catechetical lectures (Catech.xvi. 4). It was in this part of the Upper City thatTitos spared the houses and city wall to form bar­racks for the soldiers of the garrison. (Vide sup.) Above the Pool of the Sultan, the Aqueduct ofPontius Pilate, already mentioned, crosses the Valley of Hinnom on nine low arches; and, being carriedalong the side of Mount Sion, crosses the Tyropoeonby the causeway into the Haram. The water is con­veyed from Etham, or the Pools of Solomon, abouttwo miles south of Bethlehem. (Josephus, B. J. ii. 9.§4.) The mention of this aqueduct recalls a notice ofStrabo, which has been perpetually illustrated in thehistory of the city; viz., that it was e>rbs fiiv tvvbpov itcrbs bi vavrtKws Sii^rjptlc aiirb fiiv tttvbpov, tV 8c kvk\u> xwpap ex0** \irtrpav Hal &vvbpov.(xvi. p. 723.) Whence this abundant supply wasderived it is extremely difficult to imagine, as, ofcourse, the aqueduct just mentioned would be im­mediately cut off in case of siege; and, withoutthis, the inhabitants of the modern city are almostentirely dependent on rain-water. But the accountsof the various sieges, and the other historical notices,as well as existing remains, all testify to the factthat there was a copious source of living water in­troduced into the city from without, by extensivesubterranean aqueducts. The subject requires, andwould repay, a more accurate and careful investiga­tion. (See Holy City, vol. ii. p. 453—505.) Besides the other authorities cited or referred toin the course of this article, the principal modernsources for the topography of Jerusalem are the fol­lowing:— Dr. Robinson's Biblical Researches, vols,i. and ii; Williams's Holy City; Dr. Wilson's Lands ofthe Bible; Dr. E. G. Schultz, Jerusalem; W. Krafft,Die Topographic Jerusalems; Carl Kittcr, Die Krd-kunde von Alien, <fc., Palastina, Berlin, 1852, pp.297—508; Dr. Titus Tobler, Golgotha, 1851; DieSiloahquelle imd die Oelberg, 1852; Denkbldtter ausJerusalem, 1853; F. de Saulcy, Voyage autour de laMer Morte, torn. 2. [G. W.] COINS OF AELIA CAFITOLINA (JERUSALEM). IESPUS. [Jaccetani.] JEZKEEL. [Esdbaela.] 1GILGILI CI71A71W, l'tol.: Jijelt), a sea-port ofMauritania Caesariensis, on the Sinus Numidicus,made a Roman colony by Augustus. It stands ona headland, on the E. side of which a natural road­stead is formed by a reef of rocks running parallelto the shore; and it was probably in ancient timesthe emporium of the surrounding country. (Itin.Ant. p. 18; Plin. v. 2. s. 1; Ptol. iv. 2. § 11;Ammian. Marc. xxix. 5; Tab. Peut.; Shaw, Tra­vels, p. 45; Barth, Wanderungen, cf-c, p. 66.) [P.S.] IGILIUM (Giglio), an island off the coast of