OCR Output 286 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III . "of his child. Nay, when her uncle 'and intended"husband were taking up the body of the expirmg vir-"gin, he ordered them both to prison, being much more"affected for the loss of his game, than the tragical"scene before him. And he saw no reason, why the"prison which he had built, an-d insolently called the"Habitation of the commons of Roaie, should not also be"a mansion-house for himself. Where he might appeal"as often, as he pleased, and so offen would he impeach"him on this single article, that tie had unjustly con-"denmed a person free born, and in free condition, to sla-"very. And if lie does not instantly plead, I order him"to jail as a criminal condemned."'He was therefore conducted to prison ; and though no­body opposed his commitment, yet it made a very strong'impression upon the minds of.the populace, who thoughtthat the rigorous treatment of so great a man was an ex­cessive stretch of tribunitian power. The tribune ap­pointed him a day for making his defence.. In the mean time, ambassadors arrived from the La­tins and Hernici, to congratulate Rome on the reconcN1iation between the two orders of the state; on accountof which, they lodged in the capito) a crown of gold asa present to Jupiter, the best and greatest. Their financesdid not permit them to go far as to the weight; but theceremonies of religion were more regarded in those daysfor their piety, than their pomp. They likewise broughtadvices, that the JEqui and Volsci were making mightypreparations for war: upon which the consuls were or­dered to share the provinces between them. It fell toHoratius to march against the Sabines, and to Valeriusto march against the confederate forces of the .5Lqui andVolsci. When they were making the enrolments for theseservices, such respect did the people pay to there patriotconsuls, that not only the vouth, but those who hadserved the legal time, were ready to give in their names,and most of them, too, as volunteers: by which means,the army was not only increased, but rendered muchmore formidable, by the mixture ot those veterans amongthe new raised recruits. Before they left the city, thetwo last of the twelve tables of laws were engraven on