OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 73 the insects, and the manufactures of silk,1 in which bothChina and Constantinople have been surpassed by theindustry of modern Europe. I am not insensible of thebenefits of elegant luxury; yet I reflect with some pain,that if the importers of silk had introduced the art ofprinting, already practised by the Chinese, the comediesof Menander, and the entire decads of Livy, would havebeen perpetuated in the editions of the sixth century.A larger view of the globe might at least have promotedthe improvement of speculative science; but the Christiangeography was forcibly extracted from texts of Scripture,and the study of nature was the surest symptom of an un­believing mind. The orthodox faith confined the habi­table world to one temperate zone, and represented theearth as an oblong surface, four hundred days' journeyin length, two hundred in breadth, encompassed by theocean, and covered by the solid chrystal of the firma­ment.11 IV. The subjects of Justinian were dissatisfied with the state of thetimes, and with the government. Europe was overrunre?eime'by the barbarians, and Asia by the monks; the povertyof the west discouraged the trade and manufactures ofthe east; the produce of labour was consumed by theunprofitable servants of the church, the state, and thearmy, and a rapid decrease was felt in the fixed and cir­culating capitals which constitute the national wealth.The public distress had been alleviated by the economy t Procopius, lib. 8. Gothic. 4. c. 17. Theophanes, Byzant. apnd Phot. Cod.84. p. 38. Zonaras, tom. S. lib. 14. p. 69. Pagi (tom. 2. p. 603.) assigns to theyear 552 this memorable importation. Menander (in Excerpt. Legat, p. 107.) men­tions the admiration of the Sogdoites; and Theopbylact Simocatta (lib. 7. c. 9.)darkly represents the two rival kingdoms in (China) the country of silk. b Cosmas, sarnanied Indicopleastes, or the Indian navigator, performed his voyageabout the year 522, and composed, at Alexandria, between 535 and 547, Christian To­pograpby, (Montfauoon, Praefat. c. 1.) in which he refutes the impious opinion, that theearth is a globe; and Photios had read this work, (Cod. 36. p. 9,10.) which displaysthe prejudices of a monk, with the knowledge of a merchant: the most valuable parthas been given in French, and in Greek by Melchisedeo Thevenot, (Relations Curi-euses, part 1.) and the whole is since published in a splendid edition by the Pere Montfaucon. (Nova Collectio Patrum, Paris, 1707, 2 vols, in fol. tom. 2. p. 113 346.) But the editor, a theologian, might blush at not discovering the Nestorianheresy of Cosmas, which has been detected by la Croze. (Christianisme des Indes,tom. i. p. 40—56.) VOL. V. , G