OCR Output 68 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR. which formed the Lacedaemonian league should be disman­tled, or it be allowed that the things now done at Athenswere just and proper." The Lacedaemonians, upon hearingthis, curbed indeed all appearance of resentment against theAthenians:—They had not sent their embassy directly toprohibit, but 10 advise them to desist upon motives of gene­ral good: at that time also, they had a great regard for theAthenians, because of the public spirit they had shewn against the Mede: But however, thus baffled as they were in their political views, they were inwardly provoked; and the ambas­sadors on each side returned home without farther embroil­ments. By this conduct the Athenians in a small space of timewalled their city around: And the very face of the structuresheweth plainly to this day that it was built in haste. Thefoundations are laid with stones of every kind, in some placesnot hewn so as properly to fit, but piled on at random. Manypillars also from sepulchral monuments and carved stoneswere blended promiscuously in the work. For the circuit ofit was everywhere enlarged beyond the compass of the city,and for this reason, collecting the materials from every placewithout distinction, they lost no time. Themistocles also persuaded them to finish the Piraeus:For it was begun before this, during that year in which hehimself was chief magistrate at Athens*. He judged theplace to be very commodious, as formed by nature into threeharbours, and, that the Athenians, grown more than everintent on their marine, might render it highly conducive toan enlargement of their power. For he was the first person,who durst tell them, that they ought to grasp at the sovereignty • The number of the Archons or Rulers was nine. They were annuallyelected by lot, and were required to be of noble birth, of a pure Attic des­cent, irreproachable both in ir.oral and political character, dutiful to theirparents, and perfectly sound in body. The first of the nine gave its stile tothe year, and was therefore called Eponymus or the Namer : The secondwas stiled King : The third Polemarch : The other six in common Thesmo-thettt. All the cm! and relipious affairs of the state belonged to their de­part merit. j