OCR Output 214 fBOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. For that, although he were wickedly dis­posed, yet was it not lawful to touch his life.But when Saul had left the cave, David criedaloud, and desired Saul to hear him. Here­upon the king turned his face, and David,according to custom, prostrated himself be­fore the king, and said, "O king! thououghtest not to hearken to wicked men, norto such as forge calumnies, nor gratify themso far as to believe what they say, nor toentertain suspicions of such as are thy bestfriends; but to judge of the disposition of allmen by their actions. For calumny deludesmen; but their own actions are a clear de­monstration of their kindness. Words indeed,in their own nature, may be either true orfalse; but actions expose intentions nakedlyto our view. By these, therefore, it would bewell for thee to believe me, as to my regardto thee and to thy house, and not to believethose who frame such accusations against meas never came into my mind; nor are possibleto be executed; and to this farther by pur­suing after my life, and have no concern eitherday or night, but how to murder me; whichthing I think thou dost unjustly prosecute.For how is it, that thou hast embraced thisfalse opinion, as if I had a desire to kill thee?or how canst thou escape the crime of im­piety towards God, when thou wishest thoucouldst kill, and deemest thine adversary, aman, who had it in his power this day toavenge himself, and to punish thee, but wouldnot do it, nor make use of such an oppor­tunity; which if it had fallen out to thee which David perceiving, and knowing all the passages ofthe place, might go some secret way, and cut off somesmall part of it. Nor could the noise which David's motionmade be well heard by Saul, because it must have beendrowned by a much greater noise which Saul's army,waiting for him at the month of the cave, may be supposedto make. Poole's Annotations. B. * Whence this determination of the ancients is derived,I cannot tell. t 1 Sam. xxiv. 22. I An. 1098 B. C. II The Jews are of opinion that Samuel died only fourmonths before Saul; but by the generality of Christianchronologers, he is supposed to have died about two yearsbefore the death of that prince, and in the ninety-eighthyear of his age, twenty of which had been spent in thegovernment of Israel, (though Sir John Marsham will haveit no more than sixteen,) before Saul's inauguration, afterwhich he lived about eighteen. He was at first interredat Ramah; but in the time of the Emperor Arcadius, hisbody was transported from Palestine to Constantinople, against me, thou hadst not let it slip? Forwhen 1 cut off the skirt of thy garment, Icould have done the same to thy head." Sohe shewed him the piece of his garment, andthereby made him agree to what he said tobe true: and added, "I certainly have ab­stained from taking a just revenge upon thee;yet art not thou ashamed to prosecute mewith unjust hatred. May God do justice,and determine about each of our dispositions."Saul was amazed at the strange deliverancehe had received; and being greatly affectedwith the moderation and disposition of theyoung man, he groaned; and when Davidhad done the same, the king answered, " 1have the justest occasion to groan; for thouhast been the author of good to me; as I havebeen the author of calamity to thee. Andthou hast demonstrated this day, that thoupossessest the righteousness of the ancients,*who determined, that men ought to save theirenemies, though they caught them in a desertplace. I am now persuaded, that God re­serves the kingdom for thee; and that thouwilt obtain the dominion over all the Hebrews.Give me then assurances upon oath, that thouwilt not root out my family; nor, out of re­membrance of what evil I have done thee,destroy my posterity; but save and preservemy house." So David sware as he desired,and sent Saul back to his own kingdom. Buthe, and those that were with him, went up tothe straits of Masteroth.f About this timeJ Samuel the prophet died.||He was a man whom the Hebrews honoured and (as St. Jerom informs us) received both by the clergyand laity with a joy unspeakable, and honours almost in­finite. He was indeed, while he lived, an excellentgovernor, and through his whole administration, abovevanity, corruption, or any private views. Those that at­tend to his life may observe, that he was modest withoutmeanness, mild without weakness, firm without obstinacy,and severe without harshness; or as the author of Eccle-siasticus has recorded his actions, and consecrated thiseulogy, to his memory: "Samuel, the prophet of theLord," says he, "beloved of the Lord, established akingdom, and anointed princes over his people. Py thelaw of the Lord he judged the congreti-ntion, and the Lordhad respect unto Jacob. By bis faithfulness he was founda true prophet, and by bis word be was known to befaithful in vision. He called upon the mighty God whenhis enemies pressed upon him on every side, when heoffered the sucking lamb; and the Lord thundered fromheaven, and with a great noise made his voice to be heard.He destroyed the rulers of the Syrians, and all the princesof the Philistines. Before his long sleep, he made pro