OCR Output 368 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. subject, to the ordinary Koman authorities; and it becameone of the fundamental principles of Koman state-law, thatno troops and no commandant should ordinarily be sta­tioned in this district. The Celtic country south of the Alpson the other hand, in which a military command couldnot be dispensed with on account of the continued incur­sions of the Alpine tribes, was constituted a distinctgovernorship after the model of the earlier transmarine com­mands.* Lastly, as the number of praetors to be nominatedyearly was raised from six to eight, the new arrangement ofthe duties was such, that the ten chief magistrates to benominated yearly devoted themselves, during their first yearof office, as consuls or praetors to the business of the capital—the two consuls to government and administration, twoof the praetors to the administration of civil law, the remain­ing six to the reorganized administration of criminal justice—and, during their second year of office, were as proconsulsor propraetors invested with the command in one of the tengovernorships: Sicily, Sardinia, the two Spains, Macedonia,Asia, Africa, Narbo, Cilicia, and Italian Gaul. The already * For this hypothesis there is no other proof, except that Celtic Italy wasas decidedly not a province—in the sense in which the word signifies a definitedistrict administered by a governor annually changed—in the earlier times, asit certainly was one in the time of Caesar (comp. Licin. p, 39; data erat etBuBa provincia Gallia Cisalpina. The case is much the same with the advancement of the frontier; we knowthat formerly the JEsis, and in Caesar's time the Kubico, separated the Celticland from Italy, but we do not know when the boundary was shifted. Fromthe circumstance indeed, that Marcus Terentius Vairo Lucullus as propraetorundertook a regulation of the frontier in the district between the iEsis and Kubico(Orelli, Inscr. 570), it has been inferred that that must still have been provincial75. land at least in the year after Lucullus' praetorship 679, since the propraetor had nothing to do on Italian soil. But it was only within the pomerium thatevery prolonged imperium ceased of itself; in Italy, on the other hand, sucha prolonged imperium was even under Sulla's arrangement allowable, thoughnot in ordinary circumstances occurring. Lucullus, therefore, might still haveacted as propraetor in extraordinary circumstances there; but no such hypothesisis required. This very Lucullus was aheady before the Sullan reorganization32. in 672 engaged as commanding officer in this distinct (P. 337) and was probably,just like Pompeius, furnished by Sulla with proprtetorian powers; in this82. 81. character he must have regulated the boundary in question in 672 or 673(comp. Appian. i. 95), so that no inference may be drawn theuce as to thelegal position of the district. On the other hand a remarkable hint is con­tained in the statement, that Sulla advanced the Roman pomerium (Seneca, deBrev. Vitae, 14; Dio, xliii. 50); which distinction was by Koman state-lawonly accorded to one who had advanced the bounds not of the empire, bat ofthe city—that is, the bounds of Italy (i. 107). '>