OCR Output xxviii On the Life of Thtjtcvdides. assistance. And the laborious care of a late* author, in ad­justing the chronology and clearing away rubbish, will enableone now to give at least a coherent, though by no means anaccurate, account of him. Thucydides, an Athenian, by borough an Halymusian,was born in the year before Christ, four hundred seventy-one: twenty-five years after Hellanicus, thirteen after Hero­dotus, according to Aulus Gellius; and about three yearsbefore Socrates, as the birth of the latter is settled by Laer-tius. He was descended of a very splendid and noble family,though perhaps not so honourable as many others, since itwas not purely Attic. Its splendour can no longer be doubt­ed, when it is known to be the family of Miltiades. Miltia-des the elder, born a citizen of Athens, had reigned over th«Dolomci, a people in Thrace ; and left vast possessions inthat country to his descendents : And Miltiades the youngerhad married Hegesipyle the daughter of Olorus a Thraciankingf. Yet foreign blood, though royal, was always thoughtto debase the Athenian. The firm republicans of Athens,had a hereditary aversion to every circumstance of royalty;and the polite inhabitants of it abhorred all connexion withBarbarians-, the scornful title they gave to all the rest of theworld, except their countrymen of Greece. Iphicrates, a fa­mous Athenian in later times, was the son of an Athenianshoemaker and a Thracian princess. Yet, being asked towhich of his parents he thought himself most obliged ? hereplied haughtily—" To my mother. She did all she could" to make me an Athenian; my father would have made me" a Barbarian." The younger Miltiades, whom wars hadobliged to quit his hold in Thrace, commanded the troops ofAthens in the famous field of Marathon. He died after­wards in a jail, unable to pay a large fine set upon him bythe people of Athens. His son Cimon contrived afterwardsto pay it. The family for a time had been in poverty and • Vitoe Thucydidii Synopsis chronologies, ab Henrico Dodwell.i Herodotus i» Erato.