OCR Output 472 , THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. "cious magazines of silk, purple, and gold. It isXLL "said, that Constantinople pays each day to her"sovereign twenty thousand pieces of gold; which"are levied on the shops, taverns, and markets, on"the merchants of Persia and Egypt, of Russia and"Hungary, of Italy and Spain, who frequent the"capital by sea and land." In all pecuniary matters,the authority of a Jew is doubtless respectable; butas the three hundred and sixty-five days would pro­duce a yearly income exceeding seven millions ster­ling, I am tempted to retrench at least the numerousfestivals of the Greek calendar. The mass of trea­sure that was saved by Theodora and Basil thesecond will suggest a splendid, though indefinite,idea of their supplies and resources. The mother ofMichael, before she retired to a cloister, attemptedto check or expose the prodigality of her ungratefulson, by a free and faithful account of the wealthwhich he inherited, one hundred and nine thou­sand pounds of gold, and three hundred thousandof silver, the fruits of her own economy and that ofher deceased husband *. The avarice of Basil is notless renowned than his valour and fortune: his vic­torious armies were paid and rewarded without break­ing into the mass of two hundred thousand poundsof gold (about eight millions sterling) which he hadburied in the subterraneous vaults of the palacet.Such accumulation of treasure is rejected by thetheory and practice of modern policy; and we aremore apt to compute the national riches by the useand abuse of the public credit. Yet the maxims ofantiquity are still embraced by a monarch formidableto his enemies; by a republic respectable to her • See the continuator of Theophanes (1. iv. p. 107), Ceilrenus (p. 544), andZonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xvi. p. 157). t Zonaras (tom. ii. 1 . xvii. p. 225), instead of pounds, uses the more classicappellation of talents) which, in a literal sense and strict computation, wouldmultiply sixty fold the treasure of Basil.