OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. too much taste to relinquish their language, and too much vanity toadopt any foreign institutions. Still preserving the prejudices, afterthey had lost the virtues, of their ancestors, they affected todespise the unpolished manners of the Roman conquerors,whilst they were compelled to respect their superior wisdom andpower **. Nor was the influence of the Grecian language andsentiments confined to the narrow limits of that once celebratedcountry. Their empire, by the progress of colonies and con­quest, had been diffused from the Hadriatic to the Euphrates andthe Nile. Asia was covered with Greek cities, and the long reignof the Macedonian kings had introduced a silent revolution into-Syria aud Egypt. In their pompous courts those princes united theelegance of Athens with the luxury of the East, and the example ofthe court was imitated, at an humble distance, by the higher ranks oftheir subjects. Such was the general division of the Roman empireinto the Latin and Greek languages. To these we may add a thirddistinction for the body of the natives irt Syria and especially in Egypt*The use of their ancient dialects, by secluding them from the com­merce of mankind, checked the improvements of those barbarians 4\.The slothful effeminacy of the former, exposed them to the contempt *the sullen ferociousness of the lattei, excited the aversion of theRoman conquerors They seldom desired or deserved the- free*dom of the city; and it was remarked that more than two hund<rediand. thirty years elapsed after the ruin of the Ptolemies, before anative Egyptian was admitted into the senate of Rome *K . .•: H is a j*uft though trite observation, that victorious Rome was her- G eneral use fcl£ subdued by the arts of Greece. Those immortal writers whe* g2'g«.L'n*still command the admiration of modern Europe, soon became thefavourite object of study and imitation- in Italy and the western pro­vinces. But the elegant amusements of the Romans were notsuffered to interfere with their found maxims of policy. Whilst theyacknowledged the charms of the Greek, they asserted the dignity of■Sv- js.t the*