OCR Output THE BECLINE AND FALL good man may deceive others, how the conscience may slumber in a mixed andmiddle state between self-illusion and voluntary fraud. Charity may believe thatthe original motives of Mahomet were those of pure and genuine benevolence;but a human missionary is incapable of cherishing the obstinate unbelievers whoreject his claims, despise his arguments, and persecute liis life; he might forgivehis personal adversaries, he may lawfully hate the enemies of God; the sternpassions of pride and revenge were kindled in the bosom of Mahomet, and hesighed like the prophet of Nineveh, for the destruction of the rebels whom hehad condemned. The injustice of Mecca, and the choice of Medina, transformedthe citizen into a prince, the humble preacher into the leader of armies; but hissword was consecrated by the example of the saints; and the same God who af­flicts a sinful world with pestilence and earthquakes, might inspire for their con­version, or chastisement, the valour of his servants. In the exercise of politicalgovernment, he was compelled to abate of the stern rigour of fanaticism, to com­ply, in some measure, with the prejudices and passions of his followers, and toemploy even the vices of mankind as the instruments of their salvation. The useof fraud and perfidy, of cruelty and injustice, were often subservient to the propa­gation of the faith; and Mahomet commanded or approved the assassination ofthe Jews and idolaters who had escaped from the field of battle. By the repeti­tion of such acts, the character of Mahomet must have been gradually stained;. and the influence of such pernicious habits would be poorly compensated by thepractice of the personal and social virtues, which are necessary to maintain thereputation of a prophet among his sectaries and friends. Of his last years, ambi­tion was the ruling passion; and a politician will suspect, that he secretly smiled(the victorious impostor!) at the enthusiasm of his youth, and the credulity of hisproselytes. (1) A philosopher would observe that their cruelty and his success■would tend more strongly to fortify the assurance of his divine mission, that hisinterest and religion were inseparably connected, and that his conscience wouldbe soothed by the persuasion, that he alone was absolved by the Deity from theobligation of positive and moral laws. If he retained any vestige of his native in­nocence, the sins of Mahomet may be allowed as the evidence of his sincerity.In the support of truth, the arts of fraud and fiction may be deemed less crimi­nal; and he would have started at the foulness of the means, had he not been sa­tisfied of the importance and justice of the end. Even in a conqueror, or a priest,I can surprise a word or action of unaffected humanity; and the decree of Maho­met, that, in the sale of captives, the mother should never be separated fromher children, may suspend or moderate the censure of the historian. (2) The good sense of Mahomet(3) despised the pomp of royalty; the apostle ofGod submitted t;o the menial offices of the family; he kindled the fire, swept thefloor, milked the ewes, and mended with his own hands his shoes and his woollengarment. Disdaining the penance and merit of a hermit, he observed without ef­fort or vanity, the abstemious diet of an Arab and a soldier. On solemn occasionshe feasted his companions with rustic and hospitable plenty; but in his domesticlife, many weeks would elapse without a fire being kindled on the hearth of theprophet. The interdiction of wine was confirmed by his example; his hunger wasappeased with a sparing allowance of barley-bread; he delighted in the taste ofmilk and honey; but his ordinary food consisted of dates and water. Perfumes andwomen were the two sensual enjoyments which his nature required, and his re­ligion did not forbid: and Mahomet affirmed, that the fervour of his devotion wasincreased by these innocent pleasures. The heat of the climate inflames the bloodof the Arabs; and their libidinous complexion has been noticed by the writers ofantiquity. (4) Their incontinence was regulated by the civil and religious laws ofthe Koran: their incestuous alliances were blamed, the boundless license of poly­gamy was reduced to four legitimate wives or concubines; their rights both of bedand of dowry were equitably determined; the freedom of divorce was discouraged, (1) In some passage of his voluminous writings, Voltaire compares the prophet, in his old age to a fakir,—" qui detaebi le cbaine de son cou pour en donner sur les oreilles a ses confreres." (2) Gagnier relates, with the same impartial pen, this humane law of the prophet, and the murders of Caaband Sophian, which he prompted and approved (Vie de Mahomet, torn. ii. p. 69. 97.208.) (3) For the domestic life of Mahomet, consult Gagnier, and the corresponding chapters of Ahulfeda: for hisdiet (torn. iii. p. 285—288.) his children (p. 189—289.) his wives (p. 290—303.) his marriage with Zeineb (mm. ii.p. 152—160.) his amour with Mary (303—309.) the false accusation of Ayesha (p. 185—199. The most originalevidence of the three lasttransactions,is contained in the twenty-fourth, thirty-third, and sixty-sixth chapters ofthe Koran, with Sale's commentary. Prideanx (Lire of Mahomet, p. 80—90,) and Maracci (Prodrom. Alcoran,part iv. p. 49—59.) have maliciously exaggerated the frailties of Mahomet. (4) Incredibile est quo ardorc apud cos in venercm uturque solvitur sexus (Aromian, Marcellin. lib. xiv. c. 4.)