OCR Output 234 NOTES ON THE tinually suspended from its proper principle, pervades throughevery order. But the golden throne which Vulcan fends toJuno, is that vehicle depending on the goddess, and from illu­minating which she has a mundane establishment: and the un-apparent bonds which it contains are those -vital connectives bywhich foul becomes united with body. These bonds are said t»be fixed in the throne by Vulcan, because this deity is superiorto Juno, considered according to her mundane establishment. Allthe gods except Bacchus were unable to persuade Vulcan to freeJuno from her bonds; because Bacchus, or the mundane intellect,is the monad or proximately exempt producing cause of theultimate progressions of all the gods; and hence Vulcan, consi­dered according to his last procession, is suspended from Bacchus,by whom at the fame time he is converted on high. HenceBacchus is said to have led him back to heaven: but it is added,by means of intoxication; i. e. by deific intelligence, throughwhich every inferior deity is converted to deities of a superiorcharacteristic, and all the gods become absorbed in the ineffableprinciple of all things. Lastly, by Vulcan freeing Juno from herbonds, nothing more is meant than, that this goddess accordingto her mundane establishment receives a power from Vulcan,through which while (he illuminates with a divine light her de­pending vehicle, flic is at the fame time exempt from all inclinationand passive affection towards the subject of her illuminations: andthe fame reasoning must be applied to every mundane divinity. Page 56. Gave that oracle concerning lhe lladtscr.~\ Thisoracle is preserved by Plutarch in his life of Theseus, and is thus,except in the last line, translated by Langhorn: From royal stems thy honour, Theseus, springs, By Jove bclov'd, the sire supreme of kings. See rising towns, fee wide-extended states, On thee dependent, alk their future, fates! Hence, hence with fear' Thy f.ivoui'd bark lhall ride, Safe, like a bladder, »'cr the foamy tide. Page