OCR Output i5o THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VI. Salaminian to Sicily, to order him and such others as theyhad informations against to repair to Athens. But ithad been given them in charge to notify to him, that"he should follow them home in order to make his de-"fence," and by no means to put him under arrest.This management was owing to a desire of preventingall stirs in the army or in the enemy; and, not least ofall, to their willingness that the Mantineans and Argivesshould continue in the service, whose attendance in theexpedition they wholly ascribed to the interest Alcibiadeshad with them. In pursuance of this, Alcibiades on-board his ownship, and accompanied by all those who were involvedin the same accusation, sailed away from Sicily with theSalaminian for Athens. And, when they were got to theheight os Thuria, they no longer followed; but quittingtheir ship were no longer to be seen. Censured as theywere, they durst not in fact undergo a trial. The crewof the Salaminian exerted themselves immediately in thesearch after Alcibiades and his companions: But, whenthey found the search was ineffectual, they gave ic up,and steered away for Athens. And Alcibiades, now be­come a fugitive, passed over in a vessel soon after fromThuria * to Peloponnesus. But the Athenians, uponhis thus abandoning his defence, pronounced the sen­tence of death against him and his asfociates. After these transactions, the Athenian generals whoremained in Sicily, having divided their whole arma­ment into two squadrons and taken the command ofeach by lot, set sail with all their united force for Seiinus> and Egesta. They were desirous to know, whether theEgesteans would pay down the money: to discover also the * Somebody at Thuria, who knew AIciMades, aiked him, why he would notstand a trial, and trust hit country?" In other points I would; but, when roy life"is concerned, 1 would not trust my own mother, lest flie should make a mistake,"and put in a black bean instead of a white one." And, when he was afterwardstold, that his countrymen had passed the sentence of death against him, he b'ilklyreplied—" But I'll make them know that 1 am alive." Plutarch in Akibiada,