OCR Output 364 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. kids of the goats and lambs, and three thou­sand oxen For burnt-offerings. The prin­cipal of the priests also gave to the priestsagainst the passover, two thousand and sixhundred lambs; and the principal of the Le-vites gave to their brethren, five thousandlambs, and five hundred oxen. By whichmeans great plenty of sacrifices were offeredaccording to the laws of Moses, while everypriest explained the matter, and ministeredto the multitude. And indeed there hadbeen no other festival thus celebrated bythe Hebrews from the time of Samuel theprophet;* and the plenty of sacrifices nowwas the occasion that all things were per­formed according to the laws, and accordingto the custom of their forefathers. CHAP. V. »F THE EXPEDITION OF NECHO, KING OF EGYPT; THE DEATHOF JOSIAH J THE CAPTIVITY OF HIS SUCCESSOR JEHOAHAZ,AND THE ACCESSION OF JEHOIAKIM; ALSO OF THE PRO­PHETS JEREMIAH AND EZEKIEL. NOW Necho,f king of Egypt, raised anarmy,J and marched to the river Eu­phrates; in order to fight with the Medes•and Babylonians who had ||overthrown thedominion of the Assyrians. For he had a desire to reign over Asia. But when he waecome to the city Mendes, which belonged tothe kingdom of Josiah, he brought an army tohinder him from passing through his country,in his expedition against the Medes. NowNecho sent a herald to Josiah, and told himthat he did not make this expedition againsthim; but was making haste to Euphrates;and desired that he would not provoke him tofight against him, because he obstructed hismarch to the place whither he had resolvedto go. But Josiah did not admit of this ex­cuse, but put himself into a posture to hinderhim from his intended march. I suppose itwas Sfate that pushed him on this conduct;that it might take an occasion against him.For as he was setting his **troops in array,and rode about in his chariot,ff from onewing of his army to another, one of theEgyptians shot an arrow at him, and put anend to his eagerness of fighting: for beingsorely wounded, he commanded a retreat tobe sounded for his army; and returned toJerusalem, and died of that wound, and hewas magnificently buried in the sepulchreof his fathers, when he had lived thirty-nineyears, and of them had reigned JJthirty-one.But all the people mourned greatly for him;lamenting and grieving on his account many magnificence seen," when we mean no more than thatthe thing we speak of was very splendid and magnifi­cent; unless we suppose, with some, that a preferenceis given to this passover above all the rest, in respect ofthe exact observation of the rites and ceremonies belong­ing to it, which, at other times, were performed accordingto custom, and several things either altered or omitted;whereas at this, every thing was performed accordingto the prescribed form of the law, from which, sincethe finding of this authentic copy of it, Josiah enjoinedthem not to vary one tittle. Calmefs and Le Clerc'sCommentaries. B. * 2 Chron. xxxv. 18. t Pharaoh signifies no more, in the Egyptian language,than king; and was therefore given to any one that satupon that throne: but Necho (according to Herodotus)was his proper name, though some will have it to be anappellative which signifies lame, because this Pharaoh (asthey suppose, had a lameness, which proceeded fromsome wound he had received in the wars. The samehistorian tells us, that he was the son and successor ofPsammetichus king of Egypt, and a man of a bold, en­terprising spirit; that he made an attempt to join the Nileand the Red Sea, by drawing a canal from one to theother; that though he failed in this design, yet, by sendinga fleet from the Red Sea through the streights of BabelMandel, he discovered the coasts of Africa, and, in thishis expedition to the Euphrates, resolved to bid fair(by destroying the united force of the Babylonians and Medes) to be the whole monarch of Asia. Prideavx'tConnection, anno 610, and Marsham'i Canon, ag. win/.18. B. J An. 610. II This is a remarkable passage of Chronology in Jose-phus; that about the latter end of the reign of Josiah, theMedes and Babylonians overthrew the empire of theAssyrians; or, in the words of Tobit's contmuator, thatbefore Tobias died, he heard of the destruction of Nineveh,which was taken by Nabuchodonosor, the Babylonian, andAssuerus, the Mede. Tobit xiv. 15. Of which see DeanPridcaux,$ Connection, at the year 612. § Or Divine Providence; for this procedure wasagainst a divine admonition. ** This battle is justly esteemed the very same thatHerodotus mentions, when he says, that Necho joinedbattle with the Syrians (or Jews) at Magdolum (Megiddo,)and beat them: as Dr. Hudson here observes. tt It was the custom of war in former times for greatofficers to have their led horses, that if one failed theymight mount another. The kings of Persia (as QuintusCurtius informs us) had horses attending their chariots,which, in case of an accident, they might make to; and,in like manner, we might presume, that, when it becamea mighty fashion to fight in chariots, all great captains hadan empty one following them, into which they might betakethemselves if any mischance befell the other. Bochart'sHieroz. part I. c. 2. and 9. B. Jt From an. 641 to an. 610.