OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 35 condemned in the opinion of his judges. The orientals,less adverse to Nestorius than to Cyril, accepted theRomans as their deliverers: Thrace, and Pontus, andAsia, were exasperated against the murderer of Flavian,and the new patriarchs of Constantinople and Antiochsecured their places by the sacrifice of their benefactor.The bishops of Palestine, Macedonia, and Greece, wereattached to the faith of Cyril; but in the face of the sy­nod, in the heat of the battle, the leaders, with their ob­sequious train, passed from the right to the left wing,and decided the victory by this seasonable desertion.Of the seventeen suffragans who sailed from Alexandria,four were tempted from their allegiance, and the thir­teen, falling prostrate on the ground, implored the mercyof the council, with sighs and tears, and a pathetic de­claration, that if they yielded, they should be massacred,on their return to Egypt, by the indignant people. Atardy repentance was allotted to expiate the guilt orerror of the accomplices of Dioscorus: but their sinswere accumulated on his head; he neither asked norhoped for pardon, and the moderation of those whopleaded for a general amnesty, was drowned in the pre­vailing cry of victory and revenge. To save the repu­tation of his late adherents, some personal offences wereskilfully detected — his rash and illegal excommunicationof the pope, and his contumacious refusal (while he wasdetained a prisoner) to attend the summons of the synod.Witnesses were introduced to prove the special facts ofhis pride, avarice, and cruelty; and the fathers heardwith abhorrence, that the alms of the church were lavish­ed on the female dancers, that his palace, and even hisbath, was open to the prostitutes of Alexandria, and thatthe infamous Pansophia, or Irene, was publicly enter­tained as the concubine of the patriarch/ n iia\wftm Opium (perhaps Eifwii), wsfi «a$nxi $imv almt tt xai nu ffafrm fti(Concil. torn. 4. p. 1276.) A specimen of the wit and malice of the people is pre­served in the Greek Anthology (lib. 2. c. 5. p. 188. edit. Wechel), although the D 2