OCR Output 160 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. However, when they were a great way fromthe city, the Hebrews turned back to fightthem, and gave the preconcerted signal tothose that lay in ambush; who rose up, andwith a great noise fell upon the enemy. Now,as soon as they perceived themselves to bedeceived, they knew not what to do; andwhen they were driven into a certain hollowplace, which was in a valley, they were shotat by those that encompassed them, till theywere all destroyed, excepting six hundred,which formed themselves into a close body ofmen, and forced their passage through themidst of their enemies, and tied to the neigh­bouring mountains; but the rest, being abouttwenty-five thousand, were slain. Then didthe Israelites burn Gibeah, and slew thewomen, and the males that were under age.They did the same also to the other cities ofthe Benjamites. And indeed they were en­raged to that degree, that they sent twelvethousand men out of the army, and gave themorders to destroy Jabesh Gilead; becausethey did not join with them in fighting againstthe Benjamites. Accordingly those that weresent slew the men of war, with their childrenand wives, excepting four hundred virgins.To such a degree had they proceeded in theiranger, because they not only had the suffer­ing of the Levite's wife to avenge, but theslaughter of their own soldiers. However, they afterward were sorry forthe calamity they had brought upon the Ben­jamites, and appointed a fast upon that ac­count; although they supposed those menhad suffered justly for their offence againstthe laws. So they recalled, by their ambas­sadors, those six hundred which had es­caped. These had seated themselves on acertain rock called Rimmon, which was inthe wilderness. So the ambassadors lamentednot only the disaster that had befallen theBenjamites, but themselves also, by this de­struction of their kindred; and persuadedthem to take it patiently, and to come andunite with them; and not, so far as in themlay, to give their suffrage to the utter destruc- tion of the tribe of Benjamin; and said tothem, " We give you leave to take the wholeland of Benjamin to yourselves, and as muchprey as you are able to carry away with you."So these men with sorrow confessed, thatwhat had been done was according to thedecree of God, and had happened for theirown wickedness, and assented to those thatinvited them, and came down to their owntribe. The Israelites also gave them the fourhundred virgins of Jabesh Gilead* for wives.But as to the remaining two hundred, theydeliberated how they might obtain wives forthem. And whereas they had before the wartaken an oath, that no one would give hisdaughter to wife to any Benjamite; some ad­vised them to have no regard to what theyhad sworn; because the oath had not beentaken advisedly and judiciously, but in a pas­sion; and thought that they should do nothingagainst God, if they were able to save a wholetribe, which was in danger of perishing; andthat perjury was only a sad dangerous thing,not when it is committed out of necessity, butwith a wicked intention. But when the senatewere affrighted at the very name of perjury,a certain person told them, that he couldshew them a way whereby they might pro­cure wives for the Benjamites, and yet keeptheir oath. And on their asking what hisproposal was, he said, "Three times in ayear, when we meet in Shiloh, our wives andour daughters accompany us. Let then theBenjamites be allowed to steal away, andmarry such women as they can catch; whilewe will neither incite nor forbid them. Andwhen their parents take it ill, and desire usto inflict punishment upon them, we will tellthem, that they were themselves the cause ofwhat had happened, by neglecting to guardtheir daughters; and that they ought not tobe over angry at the Benjamites, since thatanger had been permitted to rise up too highalready." So the Israelites were persuadedto follow this advice; and decreed, that theBenjamites should be allowed thus to stealthemselves wives. So when the festivalf was * Judg. xxi. 14. t All the three great festivals were to be observed inthe place where God settled his habitation, which was nowat Shiloh; and therefore some are of opinion, that thefeast here mentioned, was one of these; particularly, theythink it was the feast of tabernacles, because this was a season of great joy, for having newly gathered their vin­tage, and the only season wherein the Jewish virgins wereallowed to dance. At this time they dwelt in booths too,behind which the Benjamites (as they fancy) might veryconveniently conceal themselves, and so watch an oppor­tunity of carrying away the virgins. But what seems to