OCR Output 130 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. thing they arc taught; which will be the bestthing they can be taught, and will be cause oftheir future felicity.* Let every one commemorate before God,the benefits which he bestowed upon them attheir deliverance out of the land of Egypt;and this twice every day; both when the daybegins, and when the hour of sleep comes.Gratitude being in its own nature a just thing;and serving not only by way of return for !)ast, but also by way of invitation of futureavours. They are also to inscribe the prin­cipal blessings they have received from God,upon their doors, and shew the same remem­brance of them on their arms;t as also theyare to bear on their forehead and their armthose wonders which declare the power ofGod, and his good will towards them; thatGod's readiness to bless them may appearevery where conspicuous about them.J Let there be seven men to judge|| in everycity;§ and these such as have been beforemost zealous in the exercise of virtue andrighteousness. Let every judge have twoofficers allotted bim out of the tribe of Levi.Let those that are chosen to judge in theseveral cities be had in great honour: andlet none be permitted to revile any others,when these are present, nor to carry them­selves in an insolent manner to them. It be­ing natural that reverence towards those inhigh offices among men should procure men'sfear and reverence towards God. Let thosethat judge be permitted to determine accord­ing as they think right; unless any one canshew that they have taken bribes, to the per­version of justice, or can ailedge any otheraccusation against them, whereby it may ap­pear that they have passed an unjust sen- * Deut. xxxi. 12. t Whether these phylacteries, and.' other Jewish me­morials of the law here mentioned by Josephus, and byMoses, (besides the fringes on the border of their gar­ments, Numb. xv. 37,) were literally meant by God, Imuch question. That they have been long observed bythe Pharisees, and the Rabbinical Jews, is certain. How­ever the Karaites, who receive not the underwritten tra­ditions of the elders, but keep close to the written lawwith Jerome and Grotius, think they were not literally tobe understood; as Bernard and Reland here take notice.Nor indeed do I remember, that either in the ancienterbooks of the Old Testament, or in the books we call Apo­crypha, there are any signs of such literal observationsappearing among the Jews. Though their real or mys­tical signification, i. e. the constant remembrance and ob- tence. For it is not fit that causes should beopenly determined out of regard to gain, orto the dignity of the suitors; but that thejudges should esteem what is right before allother things: for otherwise God will be des­pised, and esteemed inferior to those, thedread of whose power has occasioned the un­just sentence. For justice is the power ofGod: he, therefore, that gratifies those ingreat dignity supposes them more potent thanGod himself. But if these judges are unableto give a just sentence, about the causes thatcome before them; (which case is not unfre-quent in human affection,) let them send thecause undetermined to the holy city, andthere let the high-priest, the prophet, and theSanhedrim, determine as shall seem good tothem. But let not a single** witness be credited:but three, or two at the least, and those suchwhose testimony is confirmed by their goodlives. But let not the testimony offt womenbe admitted, on account of the levity andboldness of their sex. Nor let servants beadmitted to give testimony, on account oftheir ignoble spirit; since it is probable theymay not speak truth, either out of hope ofgain, or fear of punishment. But if any onebe believed to have borne false witness, lethim, when he is convicted, suffer all the samepunishments, which he, against whom he borewitness, was to have suffered. If a murder be committed in any place, andhe that did it be not found, nor is there anysuspicion upon one, as if he had hated theman, and so had killed him; let there be avery diligent inquiry made after the man,and rewards proposed to any that will disco­ver him. But if no information can be pre­servation of the lawsof God' and Moses, be frequently in­culcated in all the sacred writings. X Numb. xv. 38, 39. II Here, as well as Of the War, n. 20, are but sevenjudges appointed for small cities, instead of twenty-thieein the modern Rabbins, which modern Rabbins are alwaysbut of very Htde authority in comparison of Josephus. § Deut. xvi. 18. ** I have never observed elsewhere, that in the Jewishgovernment women were not admitted as legal witnessesin courts of Justice. None of our copies of the Penta­teuch say a word of it. It is very probable, however,that this was an exposition of the Scribes and Pharisees,and the practice of the Jews in the days of Josephus. tt Deut. xvii. 6; --