OCR Output 286 ROMAN EMPIRE. Eitent of some of the fairest kingdoms of Europe were thepatrimony or conquest of a prince, who reign-ed at the same time in France, Spain, Italy,Germany, and Hungary.0 I. The Roman province ofGaul had been transformed into the name and monar­chy of FRANCE; but, in the decay of the Merovingianline, its limits were contracted by the independence ofthe Britains and the revolt of Aquitain. Charlemagnepursued, and confined, the Britons on the shores of theocean; and that ferocious tribe, whose origin and lan­guage are so different from the French, was chastisedby the imposition of tribute, hostages, and peace. Af­ter a long and evasive conquest, the rebellion of thedukes of Aquitain was punished by the forfeiture oftheir province, their liberty, and their lives. Harshand rigorous would have been such treatment of ambi­tious governors, who had too faithfully copied themayors of the palace. But a recent discoveryp hasproved that these unhappy princes were the last andlawful heirs of the blood and sceptre of Clovis, ayounger branch, from the brother of Dagobert, of theMerovingian house. Their ancient kingdom was re­duced to the dutchy of Gascogne, to the counties ofFesenzac and Armagnac, at the foot of the Pyrenees:their race was propagated till the beginning of the six­teenth century; and, after surviving their Carlovingiantyrants, they were reserved to feel the injustice, or thefavours, of a third dynasty. By the reunion of Aqui­tain, France was enlarged to its present boundaries, for Italy, de Marca (Marca Hfepanica) for Spain. For the middle geography ofGermany, I confess myself poor and destitute. 0 After a brief relation of his wars and conqueste, (Vit. Carol, c. 5—14.)Eginhard recapitulates, in a few words, (c. 15.) the countries subject to his em­pire. Strurius (Corpus Hist. German, p. 118—149.) has inserted in his Notesthe texts of the old Chronicles. P Of a charter granted to the monastery of Alaon (A. D. 845.) by Chartesthe Bald, which deduces this royal pedigree. I doubt whether some subsequentlinks of the ninth and tenth centuries are equally firm; yet the whole is approvedand defended by M. Gaillard, (torn. t. p. tiO—1)1. 90S—206.) who affirms thatthe family of Montesquieu (not of the president de Montesquieu) is descended ini lir female line from Clotaire and Clovis—an innocent pretension!