OCR Output 236 THE DECLINE AND FALL mated strains. The view of arms and of danger heightenedthe effect of the military song; and the passions which it tended toexcite, the desire of fame and the contempt of death, were the ha­bitual sentiments of a German mind.Causes wh-ch Such was the situation, and such were the manners of the ancient checked the progress at Germans. Their climate, their want of learning, of arts, and of the Germans. . . laws, their notions of honour, of gallantry, and of religion, theirfense of freedom, impatience of peaee, and thirst of enterprise, aljcontributed to form a people of military heroes. And yet we findthat during more than two hundred and fifty years that elapsed fromthe defeat of Varus to the reign of Decius, these formidable barbarrians made few considerable attempts, and not any material impres­sion on the luxurious and-enstaved provinces of the empire. Theirprogress was checked by their want of arms and discipline, andtheir fury was diverted by the intestine divisions of ancient Germany.Want of arms I. It has been observed, with ingenuity, and not without truth,.. that the command of iron soon gives a nation the command of gold.But the rude tribes of Germany, alike destitute of both thosevaluable metals, were reduced slowly to acquire, by their unassistedstrength, the possession of the one as well as the other. The faceof a German army displayed their poverty of iron.. Swords,.and thelonger kind of lances, they could seldom use. Their frames- (asthey called them in their own language) were long spears headedwith a sharp but narrow iron point, and which, as occasion verquired, they either darted from a distance or pussied in close onset.With this spear, and with a shield, their cavalry was contented. Amultitude of darts,, scattered 71 with incredible force were an addi­tional resource of the infantry.. Their military dress, when theywore any,, was nothing more than a loose mantle. A variety ofcolours was the only ornament of their wooden or their osier ssiields.Few of the chiefs were distinguished by cuirasses", scarce any by4 helmets..