OCR Output 1202 TIBUR. TIBUR. it away when he deprived the rest of the muni­cipal cities of it, with tlie exception of Anagnia(Cio. pro Dovi. 30), hut it wu probably regainedon the abdication of tlie dictator. The treasuredeposited at Tibur in the temple of Hercules wasappropriated by Oct avian during his war againstLucius Antonius, when so many other templeswere plundered at Rome and in its neighbourhood.(App. It. C. v. 24.) From this period we have nonotices of Tibur till the time of the Gothic warin the 6th century of oar era. During the siege ofRome by Vitiges. Belisarius placed 500 men in it,find afterwards garrisoned it with Isaurians. (Pro-cop. Ji. G. ii. 4.) Rut under his successor Totjla aparty of the Tiburtines having introduced the Gothsby night into tlie city, the lsaurians fled, and theGoths mnrdcred many of the inhabitants with oreumstnnces of great cruelty (lb. iii. 10.) Great partof tlie city must have been destroyed on this occasionsince it appears further on (c 24) that Totila havingrelired to Tivoli, after a rain attempt upon Rome,rebuilt the fortress. At present there are but few traces of the boun­daries of the ancient city; yet there are certainpoints which, according to Nibby (l)intorm, iii. p.186, seq.), enable us to determine the course of thewalls with some degree of accuracy, and thus to es­timate it-* circumference, at all events during thetime of its subjection to the Romans. These pointsare determined partly by tlie nature of the ground,partly by existing remains, and partly by positive tes­timony. The nature of the ledge upon which the townis built shows that the walls must have traversedthe edge of it towards the N. and K.; and this as­sumption is confirmed by some remains. The twotemples commonly known as those of the Sibyl andof Druailla in tlie quarter called Castro Vetere, andtin1 evident pains taken to isolate this part, indicateit to have been the ancient acropolis or arx, andprobably the Sieelion of Pionysius. On the W. tlieboundary is marked by some remains of the wallsand of the gate opening on the road to Rome, Oninvestigating ibis track, we find that it inclinedinwards towards the church of the AnnuruUita,leaving out all that part now occupied by the VilladEite and its appurtenances. From that church itproceeded towards the modern gate of Santa Croceand the citadel built by 1'ope Pius II. on the site ofthe ancient amphitheatre. Thence to the Aniotwo points serve to fix the direction of the walls:first, the church of S. Clcmetite, which was cer­tainly outside of them, since, according to thetestimony of Marzi, some sepulchral stones werediscovered there; second, the church of S. Vm-crnzo, which was certainly within them, as vestigesof ancient baths may still be seen at that spot.From the f >rtress of Pius II, the wall seems to haveproceeded in an almost direct line to the Anio be­tween the church of S. Bartohnnmeo and the mo­dern cate of S. Giovanni. It did not extend to theopposite bank, as a small sepulchre of the imperialtimes has recently been discovered there, at the spotwhere the tunnel for diverting the Anio was opened;w here al>o were found remains of an ancient bridge.Thus the plan of the city, with the abatement ofsome irregularities, formed two trapeziums joinedtogether at their smallest sides. The arx alsot 'lmed a tra|>ezium completely isolated, and wasconnected with the town by a bridge on the samepile as the present one of S. Martitio. The cir­cumference of the city, including the arx, was about 8000 Roman feet, or 1J miles. Thewall which still exist are of three difcw. mmThe rarest and most ancient consl-t et tnpaibjmasses. Others, near the Porta Rtmm* cColU, are of opus incertam, and belong tttbasiof Sulla. The gate itself, though coapandd' «s»drilateral masses, is of the style of the ran iRome of the age of Justinian. Fran tbtuftai'the place and the direction of the sua ssfcTibur must have had five gates; nunelT, ism to­wards the \V., one towards tbe S., sod gm isssithe £., without counting that which comaiHKSsiwith the citadel; but with the exeeptkn of utfcatina, where the aqueduct called A cio Ve* be*their names are unknown, and even with n£W>that the reading is doubtful. (Front. .-If d *«i The ancient remains existing at TimM,**)them by tlie names under which tbrypass, are, the temple and portico of Hercaiaoitemples of Vesta and Sibylla, tbe therms* «the two bridges and the 111tie tomb recHtth"vered, the temple of Tussis, the riUss ofof Varus, &c. Tibur was famed for tbe worship of HrmHsihence the epithet of Herculean, so freqasi**•plied to it br the Roman poets (Pros, it SI h s»It. ir. il4; Msrt i. 13. 1, &c; cf. Stst Ski.1. 183.) Tbe temple of that demigod stwith tbe exception of the vast temple of Farisa* 1Praeneste, the most remarkable presented * <city in the neigbourhood of Rone. Tits aa(£. c.) mentions tlie Heracle-um and tb* witasitbe distinguishing features of Tibur, jat sialludes to the temple of' Fortune is theobject at Praeneste. And Juvenal (an*, st,censures the extravagance of Cetrooios isby 6aying that his villas at Tibur sod"outdid the fanes of Hercules and Fortooe siplaces. The name of Heracleom used bythe former, as well as the term Tc^rwifsjsstit by Stephanas Byzantinus, show that ita large tract of ground, and as Augustashave frequently administered jnslkr in its(Suet. Oct 72), they must have beet ofsize. It possessed a library, which,'time of the Antonines appears to bandecay. (A. Gell. A' A. xix. 5.) We laseen that it had a treasury. There wmoracle, which, like that at Praeneste, g*nby means of sortes. (Stat. Sil*. L 3.antiquaries seek this vast temple besasfbune of tbe present cathedral, where tlsstremains of a circular cella competed ofof a rbomboidal shape, thus narks*, tsfsition in the mode of building »hxfcabout tlie age of Augustus from tb*to the opus retieulatum. But it was*1 seto regard these vestiges as forming part oft150 feet in circumference; dot ws* it ■■■the principal Christian church oa tbea heathen temple. Nibby therefore (/'193), after a careful investigation,and sof the remains at Palestruta with taa*called villa of Maecenas at TitoO, ■ sgard the latter, which will be describedas belonging to the celebrated tempk «fIt is probable, however, that thereplea to that deity at Tibur. just as tsereRome, The principal one wa* doubtse*cated to Hercules Victor Tiburs; bat tsaone of Hercules Saxanus, which will be