OCR Output 02 ROMAN EMPIRE. forgotten; houses of charity were endowed for theeducation of orphans and foundlings; the law of celi­bacy, so forcibly recommended to the Greeks and La­tins, was disregarded by the Persian clergy; and thenumber of the elect was multiplied by the public andreiterated nuptials of the priests, the bishops, and eventhe patriarch himself. To this standard of natural andreligious freedom, myriads of fugitives resorted fromall the provinces of the eastern empire: the narrow bi­gotry of Justinian was punished by the emigration ofhis most industrious subjects; they transported intoPersia the arts both of peace and war: and those whodeserved the favour, were promoted in the service, ofa discerning monarch. The arms of Nushirvan, andhis fiercer grandson, were assisted with advice, andmoney, and troops, by the desperate sectaries whostill lurked in their native cities of the east: their zealwas rewarded with the gift of the Catholic churches;but when those cities and churches were recovered byHeraclius, their open profession of treason and heresycompelled them to seek a refuge in the realm of theirforeign ally. But the seeming tranquillity of the Nes-torians was often endangered, and sometimes over­thrown. They were involved in the common evils oforiental despotism: their enmity to Rome could not al­ways atone for their attachment to the gospel: and acolony of three hundred thousand Jacobites, the cap­tives of Apamea and Antioch, was permitted to erect a •hostile altar in the face of the Catholic, and in the sun­shine of the court. In his last treaty, Justinian intro­duced some conditions which tended to enlarge andfortify the toleration of Christianity in Persia. Theemperor, ignorant of the rights of conscience, was in­capable of pity or esteem for the heretics who deniedthe authority of the holy synods: but he flattered him- Bibliotheca Orientalis, the extracts in the three preceding tomes (torn. 1. p. 903.9. p. 321—463. 3. 64—70. 378—395, &c. 403—408. 580—589.) may be use-fall; consulted.