OCR Output ANTIQJJItlES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. Gaulonite, of a city whose name was Gamala, who, taking withhim Saddouk *, a Pharisee, became zealous to draw thenv to arevolt, who both said, that this taxation was no better than anintroduction to slavery, and exhorted the nation to assert theirliberty ; as if they could procure them happiness and securityfor what they possessed, and assured enjoyment of a still great­er good, which was that of the honour and glory they wouldthereby acquire for magnanimity. They also said, that Godwould not otherwise be assisting to them, than upon their joiiving with one another in such counsels as might be successful,and for their own advantage ; and this especially, if they wouldset about great exploits, and not grow weary in executing thesame ; so men received what they said with pleasure, and thisbold attempt proceeded to a great height. All sorts of misfor­tunes also sprang from these men, and the nation was infectedwith this doctrine to an incredible degree ; one violent warcame upon us after another, and we lost our friends which usedto alleviate our pains ; there were also, very great robberies andmurders of our principal men. This was done in pretence indeedfor the public welfare, but in reality from the hopes of gain tothemselves; whence arose seditions, and from them murders ofmen, which sometimes fell on those of their own people, (by themadness of these men towards one another, while their desire wasthat none of the adverse party might be left), and sometimes ontheir enemies ; a famine also coming upon us reduced us to thelast degree of despair, as did also the taking and demolishing ofcities; nay, the sedition at last increased so high, that the very-temple of God was burnt down by their enemies fire. Suchwere the consequences of this, that the customs of our fatherswere altered, and such a change was made, as added a mightyweight toward bringing all to destruction, which these men oc­casioned by their thus conspiring together, for Judas and Saddu-cus f, who excited a fourth philosophic sect among us, and hada great many followers therein, filled our civil government withtumults at present, and laid the foundations of our future mise­ries by this system of philosophy, which we were before unac­quainted withal; concerning which I will discourse a little, and this * It seems not very improbable to me, that this Sadduc, the Pharisee, was thevery same man of whom the Rabbins speak, as the unhappy, but undesigning oc­casion of the impiety or infidelity of the Sadducees; nor perhaps had the menthis name of Sadducees till this very time, though they were a distinct sect longbefore. See the note on B. XIII. ch. x. sect. 5. and Dean Prideaux, as therequoted; nor do we, that I know of, find the least footsteps of such impiety orinfidelity of these Sadducees before this time, the Recognitions assuring us, thatthey began about the. days of John the Baptist, B. I. ch. Iiv. , • f See Note above.