OCR Output 272 THE DECLINE AND FALL * Mmpieo'f6 *n tne genera* calamities of mankind, the death of an individual,Ephesus. however exalted, the ruin of an edifice, however famous, are passedover with careless inattention. Yet we cannot forget, that the tem­ple of Diana at Ephesus, after having risen with increasing splendorfrom seven successive misfortunes ,l8, was finally burnt by the Gothsin their third naval invasion. The arts of Greece, and the wealthof Asia, had conspired to erect that sacred and magnificent structure.It was supported by an hundred and twenty-seven marble columnsof the Ionic order. They were the gifts of devout monarchs, andeach was sixty feet high. The altar was adorned with the masterlysculptures of Praxiteles, who had, perhaps, chosen from the favou­rite legends of the place the birth of the divine children of Latona,the concealment of Apollo after the flaughter of the Cyclops, andthe clemency of Bacchus to the vanquished Amazons "9. Yet thelength of the temple of Ephesus was only four hundred and twenty-five feet, about two thirds of the measure of the church of St.Peter's at Rome "°. In the other dimensions, it was still more in­ferior to rhat sublime production of modern architecture. Thespreading arms of a Christian cross, require a much greater breadththan the oblong temples of the Pagans; and the boldest artists ofantiquity, would have been startled at the proposal of raising inthe air a dome of the size and proportions of the pantheon. Thetemple of Diana was, however, admired as one of the wondersof the world. Successive empires, the Persian, the Macedonian,and the Roman, had revered its sanctity, and enriched its splen­dor,5'. But the rude savages of the Baltic were destitute of a tastefor the elegant arts, and they despised the ideal terrors of a foreignsuperstition Conduct of Another circumstance is related of these invasions, which mightAthens. deserve our notice, were it not justly to be suspected as the fancifulconceit of a recent sophist. We are told, that in the sack of Athens,the Goths had collected all the libraries, and were on the point of setting