OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4» Justin was far inferior to that of the Gothic king: theexperience of a soldier had not qualified him for thegovernment of an empire; and, though personallybrave, the consciousness of his own weakness was natu­rally attended with doubt, distrust, and political appre­hension. But the official business of the state wasdiligently and faithfully transacted by the quaestor Pro-clus;" and the aged emperor adopted the talents andambition of his nephew Justinian, an aspiring youth,whom his uncle had drawn from the rustic solitude ofDacia, and educated at Constantinople, as the heir ofhis private fortune, and at length of the eastern empire. Since the eunuch Amantius had been defrauded of his Adoptionmoney, it became necessary to deprive him of his life, cession ofThe task was easily accomplished by the charge of a real ^Tmoor fictitious conspiracy; and the judges were informed, as ~~527,an accumulation of guilt, that he was secretly addicted tothe Manichaean heresy/ Amantius lost his head; threeof his companions, the first domestics of the palace, werepunished either with death or exile; and their unfor- •tunate candidate for the purple was cast into a deepdungeon, overwhelmed with stones, and ignominiouslythrown, without burial, into the sea. The ruin of Vi-talian was a work of more difficulty and danger. ThatGothic chief had rendered himself popular by the civilwar which he boldly waged against Anastasius for thedefence of the orthodox faith, and, after the conclusionof an advantageous treaty, he still remained in the neigh­bourhood of Constantinople, at the head of a formidableand victorious army of barbarians. By the frail securityof oaths, he was tempted to relinquish this advantageoussituation, and to trust his person within the walls of acity, whose inhabitants, particularly the blue faction, e His virtues are praised by Procopius. (Persic. lib. 1. o. 11.) The quxstor Pro-clus was the friend of Justinian, and the enemy of every other adoption. f Manichaean signifies Eutychian. Hear the furious acclamations of Constantinopleand Tyre, the former nu more than six days afler the decease of Anastasins. Theyproduced, the latter applauded, the eunuch's death. (Baronim, A.D. 518. p. 2. no. 15.Fleury, Hist. Eccles. tom. 7, p, 200. 205. from the councils, tom. 5. p. 182. 207.) VOL. V. E