OCR Output 434 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. cern about that matter, and told him he mightretain her whom he loved without any danger,and might have her for his wife; and openedthe truth of the matter to him, and assuredhim that he chose rather to have his owndaughter abused, than to overlook him, andsee him come to public disgrace. So Josephcommended him for his brotherly love, andmarried his daughter; by whom he had aeon, whose name was Hyrcanus, as we saidbefore. And when this his youngest sonshewed, at thirteen years old, a mind that wasboth courageous and wise; and was greatlyenvied by his brethren, as being of a geniusmuch above them, and such a one as theymight well envy; Joseph had once a mind toknow which of his sons had the best dispo­sition to virtue; and when he sent themseverally to those that had then the best re­putation for instructing youth, the rest of hischildren, by reason of their sloth, and unwil­lingness to take pains, returned to him foolishand unlearned. After them he sent out theyoungest, Hyrcanus; and gave him threehundred yoke of oxen, and bade him go twodays' journey into the wilderness, and sowthe land there, and yet kept back privatelythe yokes of the oxen that coupled themtogether. When Hyrcanus came to the place,and found he had no yokes with him, he con­temned the drivers of the oxen, who advisedhim to send some to his father to bring themsome yokes; but thinking that he ought notto lose his time, while they should be sent tobring him the yokes, he invented a kind ofstratagem, and what suited an age elder thanhis own. For he slew ten yoke of the oxen;and distributed their flesh among the labour­ers; and cut their hides into several pieces,and made him yokes, and yoked the oxentogether with them. By which means hesowed as much land as his father had ap­pointed him to sow; and returned to him.And when he was come back, his father wasmightily pleased with his sagacity; and com­mended the sharpness of his understanding,and his boldness in what he did. And hestill loved him the more, as if he were hisonly genuine son; while his brethren weremuch troubled at it. But when* one told him that Ptolemy had * An. 187. a son just born: and that all the principalmen of Syria, and the other countries subjectto him were to keep a festival, on account ofthe child's birth-day, and went away in hastewith great retinues to Alexandria; he washimself hindered from going by old age; buthe made trial of his sons, whether any of themwould be willing to go to the king. Andwhen the elder sons excused themselvesfrom going, and said they were not courtiersenough for such conversation; and advisedhim to send their brother Hyrcanus, he gladlyhearkened to that advice, and called Hyr­canus, and asked him whether he would goto the king? And upon his promise that hewould go, and his saying that he should notwant much money for his journey, becausehe would live moderately; and that accord­ingly ten thousand drachma; would be suffi­cient, he was pleased with his son's prudence.After a little while, the son advised his fathernot to send his presents to the king fromthence; but to give him a letter to hissteward at Alexandria, that he might furnishhim with money for purchasing what shouldbe most excellent and most precious. So he,thinking that the expense of ten talentswould be enough for presents to be made theking, and commending his son, as giving himgood advice, wrote to Arion, his steward, thatmanaged all his money matters at Alexan­dria; which money was not less than threethousand talents on his account. For Josephsent the money he received in Syria to Alex­andria. And when the day appointed for thepayment of the taxes to the king came, hewrote to Arion to pay them. So when theson had asked his father for a letter to thissteward, and had received it, he hastened toAlexandria. And when he was gone, hisbrethren wrote to all the king's friends, thatthey should destroy him. But when he was come to Alexandria, hedelivered his letter to Arion; who asked him,how many talents he would have? hoping hewould ask no more than ten or a little more.He said, he wanted a thousand talents: atwhich the steward was angry, and rebukedhim; as one that intended to live extrava­gantly; and he let him know how his fatherhad gathered together his estate by pains­taking, and resisting his inclinations: andwished him to imitate the example of his