OCR Output S?4« ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X. good and a just man to give what he had promised, although theevents were of n melancholy nature. Accordingly, the king de­termined so to do. Now after a little while, both himself, andthe city, were taken by Cyrus, the king of Persia, who foughtagainst him j for it was Baltasar, under whom Babylon wastaken, when he had reigned seventeen years. And this is thecud of the posterity of king Nebuchadnezzar, as history informsus; but when Babylon was taken by Darius, and when he,with his kinsman Cyrus, had put an end to the dominion of theBabylonians, he was sixty-two years old. He wag the sou ofAstyages, and had another name among the Greeks. More­over, he took Daniel the prophet, and carried him with himinto Media, and honoured hirti very greatly, and kept him'withhim; for he was one of the three presidents whom he set overhis three hundred and sixty provinces, for into so many didDarius part them. 5. However, while Daniel was in so great a dignity, and in sogreat favour with Darius, and was alone intrusted with everything by him, as having somewhat divine in him, he was enviedby the rest; for those that see others in greater honour thanthemselves with kings, envy- them: and when those thatwere grieved at the great favour Daniel was in with Da­rius, sought for au occasion against him, he afforded themno occasion at all, for he was above all the temptations ofmoney, and despised bribery, and esteemed it a very base thingto take any thing by way of reward, even when it might bejustly given him, he afforded those that envied him not the leasthandle for an accusation. So when they could find nothing forwhich they might calumniate him to the king; nothing that wasshameful or reproachful, and thereby deprive him of the hon­our he was in with him, they sought for some other methodwhereby they might destroy him. When therefore they saw'that Dani«l prayed to God three times a-day, they thought they had gotten an occasion by which they might ruin him; so theycame to Darius, and told him, That "the princes and governors"had thought proper to allow the multitude a relaxation for"thirty days, that no one might offer a petition or prayer either"to himself, or to the gods, but that he who shall transgress this"decree shall 'be cast into the den of lions, and there perish." 6. Whereupon, the king, being not acquainted with theirwicked design, nor suspecting that it was a contrivance of theirsagainst Daniel, said, he was pleased with this decree of theirs,and he promised to confirm what they "desired; he also publishedan edict to promulgate to the people that decree which the princeshad made. Accordingly, all the rest took care not to transgressthose injunctions, and rested in quiet; but Daniel had no regard