OCR Output A. D. 14.] 37 OF TACITUS. rage and violence, the purple standard which wasthere deposited. They broke open the doors; thoy| forced their way into the house; and, dragging theirgeneral out of his bed, with menaces of instant deathcompelled him to surrender the standard. Flushedwith this exploit, they ran wild through the streets;and meeting the deputies, then on their way to jointhe prince, they poured forth a torrent of opprobriouslanguage, and threatened a general massacre. Plancus was the first object of their fury. That il­lustrious citizen could not, without dishonour to hischaracter, shrink back from a tumultuous rabble: hewas, however, compelled to take refuge in the campof the first legion. He there embraced the colours;and, laying hold of the eagles, thought himself pro­tected by the gods of the army. But even that sanc­tuary was no longer a place of shelter; the soldiersforgot the religion of the camp; and if Calpurnius,the eagle-bearer, had not made a stout resistance, adeed of horror, unheard of even among barbarians,had been impiously perpetrated; and the blood of a ,> Roman ambassador, in a Roman camp, had stainedthe altar of the gods. At the return of day, whenthe general, the men, and the actions of all might beclearly distinguished, Germanicus entered the camp.He ordered Plancus to be conducted to his presence,and seated him near himself on the tribunal. Hecomplained of the distractions of the'time; but im­puted what had happened not so much to the mad­ness of the soldiers, as to the vengeance of the gods.He explained the nature of the deputation f-om thesenate; he stated the rights of ambassadors; hepainted forth, in pathetic terms, the indignity offeredto a man of such high consideration as Plancus; andlamented the disgrace that befel the legion. The sol­diers heard him like men astonished, but not con­vinced. Germanicus thought proper to dismiss thedeputies; but, to guard their persons, ordered a de­tachment of the auxiliary horse to escort them. XL. The conduct of Germanicus was censured bymany of his friends. " Why did he not withdraw to"the army on the Upper Rhine? Discipline was there Vol. I.—D