OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 455 chagan had never seen an elephant; and his curiositywas excited by the strange, and perhaps fabulous portraitof that wonderful animal. At his command, one of thelargest elephants of the imperial stables was equipped withstately caparisons, and conducted by a numerous train tothe royal village in the plains of Hungary. He surveyedthe enormous beast with surprise, with disgust, and pos­sibly with terror; and smiled at the vain industry of theRomans, who, in search of such useless rarities, couldexplore the limits of the land and sea. He wished, atthe expense of the emperor, to repose in a golden bed.The wealth of Constantinople, and the skilful diligenceof her artists, were instantly devoted to the gratificationof his caprice; but when the work was finished, he reject­ed with scorn a present so unworthy the majesty of agreat king." These were the casual sallies of his pride,but the avarice of the chagan was a more steady andtractable passion; a rich and regular supply of silk appa­rel, furniture, and plate, introduced the rudiments of artand luxury among the tents of the Scythians; their ap­petite was stimulated by the pepper and cinnamon of In­dia ;b the annual subsidy or tribute was raised from four­score to one hundred and twenty thousand pieces of gold;and after each hostile interruption, the payment of thearrears, with exorbitant interest, was always made thefirst condition of the new treaty. In the language of abarbarian without guile, the prince of the Avars affectedto complain of the insincerity of the Greeks,0 yet he wasnot inferior to the most civilized nations in the refine­ments of dissimulation and perfidy. As the successor ofthe Lombards, the chagan asserted his claim to the im­portant city of Sirmium, the ancient bulwark of the 111}% » Theopbylact, lib. 1. c. 5, 6. b Even in the Held, the chagan delighted in the use of these aromatics. He solicitedas a gift, IrfaiAC jutgvgMc, and received TMrip iuu fyvKhv/ Iviaiv, juwmv t« xat tot Xtya-juivov xoa-rov. Theopbylact, lib. 7. c. 13. The Europeans of the ruder ages consumedmore spices in their meat and drink than is compatible with the delicacy of a modernpalace. Vie Privee dcs Francois, tom. 2. p. 162, 163. c Theopbylact, lib. 6. c. 6. lib. 7. c. 15. The Greek historian confesses the truthand justice of his reproach. ,