OCR Output C. IV.] REVOLT OF THE GERMANS. 307 vailed with them so to do; for when they saw the Romangovernment in a great internal disorder, by the continualchanges of its rulers, and understood that every part of thehabitable earth under them was in an unsettled and totteringcondition, they thought this was the best opportunity thatcould afford itself for themselves to make a sedition, whenthe state of the Romans was so ill. Classicus' also andVitellius,2 two of their commanders, puffed them up with suchhopes. These had, for a long time, been openly desirous ofsuch an innovation, and were induced by the present oppor足tunity to venture upon the declaration of their sentiments;the multitude was also ready, and when these men told themof what they intended to attempt, that news was gladly re足ceived by them. So when a great part of the Germans hadagreed to rebel, and the rest were no better disposed, Ves足pasian, as guided by divine Providence, sent letters to PetiliusCerealis, who had formerly had the command of Germany,whereby he declared him to have the dignity of consul, andcommanded him to take upon him the government of Britain;so he went whither he was ordered to go, and when he wasinformed of the revolt of the Germans, he fell upon them assoon as they were gotten together, and put his army in battlearray, and slew a great multitude of them in the fight, andforced them to leave off their madness, and to grow wiser;nay, had he not fallen thus suddenly upon them on the place,it had not been long ere they would, however, have been 1 This Classicus, and Civilis, and Cerealis, are names well-known inTacitus; the two former as moving sedition against the Romans, and thelast as sent to repress them by Vespasian, just as they are here describedin Joscphus, which is the case also of Fonteius Agrippa, and RubriusCallus, in sect. 3. But as to the very favorable account presently given ofDomitian, particularly as to his designs in this his Gallic and German ex足pedition, it is not a little contrary to that in Suetonius, Vesp. sect. 7. Norare the reasons unobvious that might occasion this great diversity: Domitianwas one of Josephus's patrons, and when he published these books of theJewish war, was very young, and had hardly begun those wicked practiceswhich rendered him so infamous afterward; while Suetonius seems to havebeen too young, and too low in life, to receive any remarkable favors fromhim, as Domitian was certainly very lewd and cruel, and generally hated,when Suetonius wrote about him. * Civilis. Tacit