OCR Output 8 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. was like his father Ahab in wickedness, and reigned twelveyears, indulging himself in all sorts of wickedness, and impietytowards God, for leaving off his worship, he worshipped foreigngods: but in other respects he was an active man. Now at thistime it was that Elijah disappeared from among men, and no oneknows of his death to this very day; but he left behind him-his disciple Elisha as we have formeriy declared. And indeed,as to Elijah, and as to Enoch, who was before the deluge, it iswritten in the sacred books that they disappeared, but so thatnobody knew that they died. CHAP. III. How Joram 'and Jehoshaphat made an expedition against theMoabites: As also concerning the wonders of Elisha; and thedeath of Jehoshaphat. § 1. W HEN Joram had taken upon him the kingdom, hedetermined to make an expedition against the king of Moab,whose name was Mesha, - for, as we told you before, he wasdeparted from his obedience to his brother [Ahaziah], whilehe paid to his father Ahab two hundred thousand sheep, withtheir fleeces of wool. When therefore he had gathered hisown army together, he sent also to Jehoshaphat, and entreatedhim, that since he had from the beginning been a friend to hisfather; he would assist him in the war that he was entering intoagainst the Moabites, who had departed from their obedience,who not only himself promised to assist him, but would alsooblige the king of Edom, who was under his authority, to make thesame expedition also. When Joram had received these assurancesof assistance from Jehoshaphat, he took his army with him, andcame to Jerusalem; and when he had been sumptuously entertainedby the king of Jerusalem, it was resolved upon by them to taketheir march against their enemies through the wilderness of Edom;And when they had taken a compass of seven days journey, theywere in distress for want of water for the cattle, and for the army,from the mistake of their roads by the guides that conductedthem, insomuch that they were all in an agony, especiallyJoram; and cried to God, by reason of their sorrow, and[desired to know] what wickedness had been committed bythem that induced him to deliver three kings together, with­out fighting, unto the king of Moab. But Jehoshaphat, whowas a righteous man, encouraged him, and bid him send to thecamp, and know whether any prophet of God was come alongwith them, that we might by him learn from God what weshould do. And when one of the servants of Joram said, thathe had seen there Elisha, the son of Shaphat, the disciple of