OCR Output 304 ROMAN EMPIRE. may be estimated by the absence of eighty-three menand eighteen women, who retired to Ethiopia in the se­venth year of his mission; and his party was fortifiedby the timely conversion of his uncle Hamza, and of thefierce and inflexible Omar, who signalized in the causeof Islam the same zeal which he had exerted for its de­struction. Nor was the charity of Mahomet confinedto the tribe of Koreish or the precincts of Mecca: onsolemn festivals, in the days of pilgrimage, he frequentedthe Caaba, accosted the strangers of every tribe, andurged, both in private converse and public discourse,the belief and worship of a sole deity. Conscious of hisreason and of his weakness, he asserted the liberty ofconscience, and disclaimed the use of religious violence/but he called the Arabs to repentance, and conjuredthem to remember the ancient idolaters of Ad and Tha-mund, whom the divine justice had swept away fromthe face of the earth." - is opposed ^ne People of Mecca were hardened in theirty the unbelief by superstition and envy. The eldersA. D. ' of the city, the uncles of the prophet, affected to''despise the presumption of an orphan, the re­former of his country; the pious orations of Mahomet inthe Caaba were answered by the clamours of Abu Taleb.Citizens and pilgrims, listen not to the tempter, hearkennot to his impious novelties. Standfast in the worship ofAl Ldta and Al Uzzah. Yet the son of Abdullah wasever dear to the aged chief; and he protected the fameand person of his nephew against the assaults of theKoreishites, who had long been jealous of the pre-emi­nence of the family of Hashem. Their malice was co­ J The passages of the Koran in the behalf of toleration, are strong and numer­ous: c. 2. v. 257. c. 16. 129. c. 17. 54. c.45. 15. c. 50. 39. c. B8. 81, &c. with thenotes of Maracci and Sale. This character alone may generally decide the doubtsof the learned, whether a chapter was revealed at Mecca or Medina. 'See the Koran (passim, and especially c. 7. p. 123,124, &c.) and the traditionof the Arabs. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 35—37.) The caverns of the tribe of Tha-mund, fit for men of the ordinary stature, were shewn in the midway betweenMedina and Damascus, (Abulfed. Arabiae Descript. p. 43,44.) and may be pro­bably ascribed to the Troglodites of the primitive world, Michaelis, ad Lowth'd*Poesi Hebraor. p. 131—134. Recherches sur les Egyptiens, torn. 2. p. 48, &c.)