OCR Output CHAP. 29. ROMAN HISTORY- 147 were employed; the alfair passed with more noise andangry words, than any real mischief. The senate assembled tumultucmsly, and went uponthe business still more so. Those who hod been person­ally insulted demanding an inquiry, and the most violentmembers declaring themselves more by their noise andclamour, than by giving their opinions. At length, theirpassion subsided; and the consuls having remarked, totheir reproach, that the same ungovernable spirit thatprevaited in the forum, had now taken possession of thesenate-house, they began their deliberations with morecomposure. There were three different opinions prevailed in thesenate. P. Virginias was not for a general act of grace;and gave his opinion, " That those only, who upon ihe"promise of the consul Servilius, had carried arms"against the Volsci, Arunci, and Sabines, were entitled"to a discharge.'' Titus Largius represented, " That this was not the"time to weigh and balance services with precision ;—"that the whole body of the people were drowned in"debt, and it was impossible to stop the evil, but by a"general release. For to make a distinction among the"debtors, would only inflame, not extinguish thii flame"of discord." Appius Claudius, who was naturallyviolent, and rendered still more so, in the present emer­gency, by the haired of the people on the one side, andthe excessive praise of the senators on the other, criedout, " That it was npttmiseiy, but licentiousness that"was the source of thq|e riots.—That the behaviour of"the populace, was the effect of wantonness and not of"fury. The source of all these disorders lay in their"right to appeal, which divested the consuls of every** power, but that of threatening, since a delinquent"could appeal from their judgment, to that of their owa"peers and co-operators." "Come," continued he,"let us create a dictator, from whom their lies no ap-"peal, and this flame, which spreads with such vio-"lence, will, in an instant, come to nothing. Let them"dare to insult an officer, when they see the power of"life and death in the hands of that person, whose au-"thority they had the assurance to insult/'