OCR Output ak. 1056.] 271 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK VIII. Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Sixty-three Years. FROM THE DEATH OP DAVID TO THE DEATH OP AHAB. CHAP. I. of Solomon's conduct after he had received the KINGDOM. WE have already treated of David, andhis virtue, and of the benefits that hewas the author of to his countrymen; of hiswars also, and battles which he managedwith success; and then died an old man.And when Solomon his son, who was but ayouth in age,* had taken the kingdom, andwhom David had declared, while he wasalive, the lord of that people, according toGod's will; when he sat upon the throne, thewhole body of the people made joyful accla­mations to him, as is usual at the beginningof a reign; and wished that all his affairsmight come to a blessed conclusion; and thathe might arrive at a great age, and at themost happy state of affairs possible. But Adonijah, who, while his father waslivings attempted to gain possession of thegovernment, came to the king's mother, Bath-sheba, and saluted her with great civility;and when she asked him, whether he cameto her, as desiring her assistance in any thingor not? and bade him tell her if that werethe case, for that she would cheerfully affordit him; he began to say, that she knew herselfthat the kingdom was his, both on account ofhis elder age, and of the disposition of themultitude; and that yet it was transferred toSolomon her son, according to the will ofGod. He also said, that he was contentedto be a servant under him, and was pleasedwiththe present settlement. But he desired * About 12 or 14 years old. her to be a means of obtaining a favour fromhis brother to him, and to persuade him tobestow on him in marriage Abishag; who hadslept by his father, but was still a virgin. SoBathsheba promised to afford him her assist­ance, and to bring this marriage about; be­cause the king would be willing to gratify himin such a thing; and because she would presshim to it very earnestly. Accordingly hewent away in great hopes of succeeding inthis affair. So Solomon's mother Went pre­sently to her son, to speak about what shehad promised, upon Adonijah's supplicationto her. And when her son came forward tomeet her, and embraced her; and when hehad brought her into the house where hisroyal throne was, he sat thereon, and badethem set another throne on the right handfor his mother. When Bathsheba was setdown, she said, "O son! grant me one re­quest that I desire of thee, and do not doany thing to me that is disagreeable or un­grateful; which thou wilt do if thou deniestme." And when Solomon desired her to layher commands upon him, because it wasagreeable to his duty, to grant her everything she should ask; and complained thatshe did not at first begin her discourse, witha firm expectation of obtaining what she de­sired, but had some suspicion of a denial; sheintreated him to grant, that his brother Ado­nijah might marry Abishag. But the king was greatly offended at thesewords, and sent away his mother, saying, thatAdonijah aimed at great things; and that hewondered she did not desire him to yield upthe kingdom to him, as to his elder brother;