OCR Output 120 THE DECLINE AND FALL of marriage, the education of children, and the authority of parents, which may-seem to draw their origin from nature itself, are ascribed to the untutored wisdomof Romulus. The law of nations and of religious worship, which Numa introduced,was derived from his nocturnal converse with the nymph Egeria. The civil lawis attributed to the experience of Servius: he balanced the rights and fortunes ofthe seven classes of citizens; and guarded, by fifty new regulations, the observanceof contracts and the punishment of crimes. The state, which he had inclined to­wards a democracy, was changed by the last Tarquin into lawless despotism; and•when the kingly office was abolished, the patricians engrossed the benefits of free­dom. The royal laws became odious or obsolete; the mysterious deposite was si­lently preserved by the priests and nobles; and, at the end of sixty years, the citi­zens of Rome still complained that they were ruled by the arbitrary sentence ofthe magistrates. Yet the positive institutions of the kings had blended themselveswith the public and private manners of the city; some fragments of that venerablejurisprudence(l) were compiled by the diligence of antiquarians,(2) and abovetwenty texts still speak the rudeness of the Pelasgic idiom of the Latins. (3) I shall not repeat the well-known story of the decemvirs, (4) who sullied by theiractions the honour of inscribing on brass, or wood, or ivory, the twelve tablesof the Roman laws. (5) They were dictated by the rigid and jealous spirit of anaristocracy, which had yielded with reluctance to the just demands of the people.But the substance of the twelve tables was adapted to the state of the city; and theRomans had emerged from barbarism, since they were capable of studying andembracing the institutions of their more enlightened neighbours. A wise Ephe-sian was driven by envy from his native country; before he could reach the shoresof Latium, he had observed the various forms of human nature and civil society;he imparted his knowledge to the legislators of Rome, and a statue was erected inthe forum to the perpetual memory of Hermodorus. (6) The names and divisionsof the copper-money, the sole coin of the infant state, were of Dorian origin :(7)the harvests of Campania and Sicily relieved the wants of a people whose agricul­ture was often interrupted by war and faction; and since the trade was establish­ed,^) the deputies, who sailed from the Tiber, might return from the same har­bours with a more precious cargo of political wisdom. The colonies of GreatGreece had transported and improved the arts of their mother-country. Cumie.and Rhegium, Crotona and Tarentum, Agrigentum and Syracuse, were in therank of the most flourishing cities. The disciples of Pythagoras applied philoso­phy to the use of government; the unwritten laws of Charondas accepted the aidof poetry and music, (9) and Zaleucus framed the republic of the Locrians, which S279.,) is adopted by Gravina (Origines Juris Civilis, p. 28. edit. Lips. 1737.,) and is reluctantly admitted byaseou, his German editor. (1) The most ancient code or digest was styled Jus Papirianum, from the first compiler, Papirius, who flour­ished somewhat before or after the Regifugium. (Pandect, lib. i. tit. 2.) The best judicial crities, eren Byn-kershoek (torn. i. p. 284,285.) and Heineccius (Hist. J. C. R. lib. i. c. 16,17, and Opp. torn. iii. sylloge 4. p. 1—8*0 K*Te credit to this tale of Fumponius, without sufficiently adverting to the value and rarity of such a mo-«ument,of the third century, of the illiterate city. 1 much suspect that the Cains Papirius, the PontifexMaximus, who revived the laws of Numa (Dionys. Hal. lib. iii. p. 171.0 left only an oral tradition; and thatthe Jus Papiriannm of Granius Flaecus (Pandect, lib. i. tit. 16. leg. 144.,) was not a commentary, but an ori­ginal work, compiled in the time of Caesar (Censorin. de Die Natali, lib. iii. p. 13. Duker de Latinitate, J. C. Homaine of Terasson^p. 22—72. Paris, 1750, in folio; a work of more promise than performance. (3) In the year 1444, seven or eight tables of brass were dug up between Cnrtona and Gubio. A part ofthese, for the rest is Etruscan, represents the primitive state of the Pelasgic letters and language, which areascribed by Herodotus to that district of Italy (lib. i. c. 56—58.) though this difficult passage may be explainednf a Crestona in Thrace (Notes de Larcher, torn. i. p. 256—261. The savage dialect of the Eugubine tableshas exercised, and may still elude the divination of criticism; but the root is undoubtedly Latin, of the sameage and character as the Saliare Carmen, which, in the time of Horace, none could understand. The Romanidiom, by an infusion of Doric and JSolic Greek, was gradually ripened into the style of the twelve tables, ofthe Duillian column,of Ennius, of Terence, and of Cicero (Gruter, Inscript. lorn. i. p. 142. Scipion Maffei,Istoria Diplomatica, p. 241—258. Bibliotheque Italique, torn. iii. p. 30—41. 174—205. torn. xiv. p. 1—52.)_(4) Compare Livy (lib. iii. c. 31—59.) with Dionysios Halicnrnossensis (lib. x. p. 644: xi. p. 691.) t How con­cise and animated is the Roman—how prolix and lifeless is the Greek! Yet he has admirably judged themasters, and denned the rules of historical composition. (5) From the historians, Heineccius (Hist. J. R. lib. i. No. 26.) maintains that the twelve tables were of brass,—sereas: in the text of Pomponius we read eboreas; for which Sealiger has substituted roboreas (Bynkershoefc,p. 236.) Wood, brass, and ivory, might be successively employed. (6) His exile is mentioned by Cicero (Tuseulan; Question, 5. 36.) his statue by Pliny (Hist. Nat. 34.11.)The letter, dream, and prophecy of Heraclitus, are alike spurious (Epistolse Grscc. Divers, p. 337.) (7) This intricate subject of the Sicilian and Roman money is ably discussed by Dr. Bentley (Dissertationon the epistles of Phalaris, p. 427—479., whose powers in this controversy were called forth by honour and re­sentment. (8) The Romans,or their allies, sailed as far as the fair promontory of Africa (Polyb. lib. iii. p. 177. edit.Casaubon, in folio.) Their voyages to Cumse, &c. are noticed by Livy and Dionysius. (9) This circumstance would alone prove the antiquity of Charondas, the legislator of Rhegium and Cata­