OCR Output MESSEXIA. 345 MESSEXIA. iv. 43.) That these districts were those of Alagonia,Grrenia, Cardamyle, and Leuctru, situated north­ward of the smaller Pamisus, which flows into theMessenian golf just below Leuctra, we may concludefrom the statement of Strabo (viii. p. 361) thatthis river had been the subject of dispute betweenthe Messenians and Lacedaemonians before Philip.The Messenians appear to have maintained thattheir territory extended even further south in thelust ancient times, since they alleged that theisland of Pephnus had once belonged to them.(Pans. ir. 26. § 3.) [Pephni's.] At a later timethe Messenians joined the Achaean League, andfought along with the Achaeans and AntigonusDown at the battle of Sellasia, B. C. 222. (Paus.ir. 29. § 9.) Long before this the Lacedaemoniansappear to bare recovered the districts assigned tothe Messenians by Philip; for after the battle ofSellasia the boundaries of the two people werea?sin settled by Antigonus. (Tac Ann. I. c.)Shortly afterwards Philip V. sent Demetrius ofPharos, who was tben living at his court, on anexpedition to surprise Messene; but the attempt wasuranccefcful, and Demetrius himself was slain.(Polyb. iii. 19; Paus. iv. 29. §§ 1—5, where thisattempt is erroneously ascribed to Demetrius II.,kin* «f Macedonia.) Demetrius of Pharus had ob­served to Philip that Jit. Itbome and the Acroco-rijithus were tjie two horns of Peloponnesus, andthat whoever held these horns was master of thebulL (Strab. viii. p. 3C1.) Afterwards NabiA,tyrant of Lacedaenion, also made an attempt uponMessene, and had even entered within the walls,when he was driven back by Philopoemen, whocwne with succours from Megalopolis. (Pans. iv.29. § 10.) In the treaty made between Nabisand the Romans in B.C. 195, T. Quintius Flamininuscompelled him to restore all the property he hadtaken from the Messenians. (Liv. xxxiv. 35 ; Plut.Flumn. 13.) A quarrel afterwards arose betweenthe Messenians and the Achaean League, which endedin open war. At first the Achaeans were unsuc­cessful. Their general Philopoemen was takenprauier and put to death by the Messenians, B. c.1S3; but Lycortas, who succeeded to the command,not only defeated the Messenians in battle, but cap-tared their city, and executed all who had takenput in the death of Philopoemen. Messene againj^oed the Achaean League, but Abia, Thuria, andH>*ne now separated themselves from Messene, anabfcame each a distinct member of the league. (Paus.iv. SO. §§ 11, 12; Liv. xxxix. 49; Polyb. xxiv. 9,Kq, xxv. 1.) By the loss of these states the ter­ritory of Messene did not extend further eastwardtW the Pamisus; but on the settlement of theaffairs of Greece by Mummius, they not only re­wired their cities, but also the Dentheliates Ager,vhtch the Lacedaemonians had taken possession of.(T»e. Ann. iv. 43.) This district continued to be» soiject of dispute between the two states. It»u again assigned to the Messenians by the Mile-"ao*. to whose arbitration the question had beensabrnitted, and also by Atidius Geminus, praetor ofAttaia. (Tac. i c.) But after the battle of Ac­tum Augustus, in order to punish the Messeniansfor laving espoused the side of Antony, assignedTharia and I'narae to the Lacedaemonians, and•"•nequectly the Dentheliates Ager, which lay cast« these states. (Paus. iv. 31. § 2, comp. iv. 30.J 2.) Tacitus agrees with Pausanias, that thewothehates Ager belonged to the Lacedaemonians in the reign of Tiberius; but he differs from thelatter writer in assigning the possession of theLacedaemonians to a decision of C. Caesar and M.Antonius (" post C. Caesaris et Marci Antonii sen-tentia redditum "). In such a matter, however, theauthority of Pausanias deserves the preference. Welearn, however, from Tacitus (/. c), that Tiberiusreversed the decision of Augustus, and restored thedisputed district to the Messenians, who continuedto keep possession of it in the time of Pausanias;for thi* writer mentions the woody hollow calledChoerius, 20 stadia south of Abia, as the boundarybetween the two states in his time (iv. 1. § 1, iv. 30.§ 1). It is a curious fact that the district, whichhad been such a frequent subject of dispute in an­tiquity, was in the year 1835 taken from the go­vernment of Misthra (Sparta), to which it hadalways belonged in modem times, and given to thatof Kalamdta. (Ross, Reisen im Peloponnnei, p. 2.) IV. Towns. 1. In the plain of Stenyclervg. — Andania, thecapital of the Messenian kings before the Dorians.Oechalia, at the distance of 8 stadia from Andania,the reputed residence of Eurytus, occupied, accordingto Pausanias, the grove of cypresses called Carnasium.Am I'M i-:i A.in the mountains on the borders of Arcadia.Two roads led into Arcadia: the more northerly ranalong the river Charadrus past Carnasium (Paus.viii. 35. § I); the more southerly started fromMessene, and was a military road made by Epami-nondas, to connect more closely the two newlyfounded cities of Messene and Megalopolis. (Paus.viii. 34; comp. Leake, Aforea., vol ii. p. 296.)Stenyclarus, the capital of the Dorian conquerors,and which gave its name to the plain, was also onthe borders of Arcadia. Ira or ElKA, where thecitizens maintained themselves during the SecondMessenian War, was situated upon the mountain ofthis name, to the north of the plain above the riverNeda. At the extreme south of this plain, com­manding also the entrance of the plain Macaria, wasMessekk, with its citadel Ithome. To the westpart of the plain, on the road from Andania toCyparissia, were Policiine and DoKii'M. 2. Jn die plain of Macaria. — Pherae, themodern Kalamdta, situated about a mile from thesea, on the left bank of the river Nedon, was inantiquity, as it is at present, the chief town in theplain. Three roads lead from Pherae: one south­wards along the coast to Abia, said to be the Ho­meric Ira; a second up the valley of the Nedon,across Mt. Taygetus to Sparta, one of whose gateswas hence called the gate towards Pharae (" portaquae Pharas ducit," Liv. xxxv. 30); while the thirdroad ran across the Nedon in a north-easterly direc­tion to Calamae, the modern Kalami, where itdivided into two, the one to the west going across thePamisus, and the other to the north leading toThuria, of which there were two towns so called,and from thence to the sources of the Pamisus. To theeast of Pherae was the mountainous district calledthe Ager Dentheliates, and containing Limnae,which has been already described. 3. In the western peninsula and on the westei-ncoast.—Corone and AsiNEwere on the Messeniangulf, and consequently on the east coast of thispeninsula. The situation of C'oix)NI»es is un­certain, some placing it on the Messenian gulf, andothers near the harbour Phoenicus, NW. of thepromontory Acritas. At the extreme southern point