OCR Output 16 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I. Paphlagonia*, were in search of a settlement and aleader, for their king Palymenes had fallen at Troy:—That the Trojans, in Conjunction with the Heneti,having driven out the Euganei, who inhabited the coun­try between the sea and the Alps, took possession oftheir lands. The place where they first landed was calledTcoy, and from thence the Trojan district. The peoplein general were called Venetians.—TThat ./Eneas, drivenfrom his country by a similar disaster, but conducted byhis fates, to enterprises more important, landed first inMacedonia, and moving thence in quest of a settlement,was carried to Sicily, whence he steered for the countryof Laurentumf. This place was also called Troy.There the Trojans disembarking, and having nothingleft, after their tedious and troublesome voyages, buttheir arms and vessels, fell to plundering the country.To put a stop to this violent proceeding in the strangers, \Latinus and the Aborigines, who were then the proprie­tors, flocked out in arms from town and country. The event of this affair is differently retated. Ac­cording to some authors, Latinus bemg defeated in battle,first made a peace with jEneas, which was afterwardsconfirmed by a matrimonial alliance: but others con-tend, that when both armies stood drawn up in order ofbattle, before the signal was given, Latinus advancingamong his nobles,-invited the leader of the foreignersto an interview. He then enquired who they were,whence they came, what had obliged them to leave theircountry, jano. what they wanied in the territory of Lau-rentum? After he had been informed that the peoplewere Trojans, who under the conduct of .ffiueas, theson of Anchises' and Venusi after their country was de­stroyed, had wandered in'Tjuest of a settlement, and aspot upon which they might build a city; admiring tfiemajestic appearance of the'man, the dignity of his fa­mily, and withal a suul equally prepared for peace orwar, he confirmed to him a promise of future amity, bygiving him 'he hand of friendship. * Bounded by the rivers Partbenius and Halys, part of Pallo-griecia and the Euxine sea. ! San Lorcn i».