OCR Output an. 536.] 387 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS BOOK XL Containing an Interval of Two Hundred and Fifty-three Years and Five Months. FROM THE FIRST YEAR OF CYRUS TO THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT. CHAP. I. OF THE PERMISSION GRANTED TO THE JEWS BY CYRUS,KING* OF PERSIA, TO RETURN TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY,AND TO REBUILD THEIR TEMPLE. IN the firstf year of the reign of Cyrus;which was the seventieth from the daythat the Jews were removed out of their ownland into Babylon: God commiserated thecaptivity and calamity of these poor people;according as he had foretold by Jeremiah theprophet,J before the destruction of the city;that after they had served Nebuchadnezzar,and his posterity, and after they had un­dergone that servitude seventy years,|| hewould restore them again to the land oftheir fathers, and they should rebuild theirtemple, and enjoy their ancient prosperity.And these things God did afford them. For he stirred up the mind of Cyrus, and madehim write thus throughout all Asia: "Thussaith Cyrus the king, Since* God Almightyhath appointed me to be king of the habit­able earth, I believe that he is that Godwhom the nation of the Israelites worship:for indeed he foretold my name by the pro­phets; and that I should build him a houseat Jerusalem, in the country of Judea."§ This was known to Cyrus by his readingthe book which Isaiah left behind him of hisprophecies. For this prophet said, that Godhad spoken thus to him in a secret vision:—"My will is, that Cyrus, whom I have ap­pointed to be king over many and great na­tions, send back my people to their own land,and build my temple."** This was foretoldby Isaiah one hundred and forty years beforethe temple was demolished. Accordingly '* N. B. Josephus never makes use of our Hebrewbook of Ezra, which probably he never saw; but onlyof the first book of Esdras, by us called apocryphal: andwhich he read in Hebrew; but which Hebrew copy hasbeen long lost; our book being now only extant in theSeptuagint, and vulgar Latin versions. T 2 Chron. xxxvi. 22. Ezra i. 1. j This Cyrus is called God's shepherd by Xenophon,page 581, as well as by Isaiah xlv. 28, as also it is said ofhim by the same prophet, "I will make a man more pre­cious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedgeof Ophir," Isa.xiii. 12. which character makes Xenophon'smost excellent history of him very credible. II Jeremiah xxv. 11. § It is a good deal more than probable, that this decreein favour of the Jews was, in a great measure, owing toDaniel's good offices. Cyrus, at his first coming to Baby-Ion, after he had taken the city, found him there an oldminister of state, famed for his great wisdom over all theEast, and in many things, for a knowledge superior to therest of mankind; and accordingly we find, that he not onlyemployed him as such, but, upon the settling of the govern- voL. I.—NOS. 33 & 34. ment of the whole empire, made him first superintendentor prime minister of state over all the provinces of it. Inthis station of life, Daniel must have been a person of greatauthority at court, and highly in the esteem of his prince:and therefore, as we find him earnest in his prayer to Godfor the restoration of his people, Daniel ix. we cannot butthink, that he would be equally warm in his intercessionsfor it with the king. To which purpose, it is not im­probable, that he might shew him those passages in Isaiah,which speak of him by name, (150 years before he wasborn,) as a great prince and conqueror, the ruler of manynations, and the restorer of his people, by causing histemple to be built, and the city of Jerusalem re-inhabited.For, that Cyrus had seen those prophecies, the thing isplain, not only from the testimony of Josephus, Antiq. lib.xi. c. 1. but from the recital that is made of them in thedecree itself, Ezra i. 2; and if so, who shall be so properto shew them to him, and to recommend the accomplish­ment of them to his princely care, as Dataiel, who had sogreat credit with him, and -so passionate a concern for therestoration of Zion? Prideaux's Connection, anno 539. B** Isaiah xliv. 28. 3T