OCR Output ait. 1449.] 161 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. coming on, these two hundred Benjamites layin ambush before the city, by two or threetogether; and waited for the coming of thevirgins in the vineyards, and other placeswhere they could lie concealed. Accordinglythe virgins came along, playing, and sus­pected nothing of what was coming uponthem, and walked after an unguarded man­ner. So those that lay scattered in the road,rose up, and caught hold of them. By thismeans these Benjamites got them wives, andapplied themselves to agriculture, and tookgood care to recover their former happy state.And thus was this tribe, after they had beenin danger of entirely perishing, saved by thewisdom of the Israelites. And accordinglyit flourished, and soon increased to be a mul­titude, and came to enjoy all other degreesof happiness. And such was the conclusionof this war. CHAP. III. OF THE MISFORTUNES BROUGHT UPON THE ISRAELITES BVTHEIR INDOLENCE AND REMISSNESS; THEIR OPPRESSIONBV THE ASSYRIANS, AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT DELIVER­ANCE BV OTHNIEL, WHO RULED OVER THEM FORTY YEARS. NOW it happened,* that the tribe of Dansuffered in the like manner with thetribe of Benjamin, and on the following occa­sion. When the Israelites had already leftoff the exercise of their arms of war, and wereintent upon their husbandry, the Canaanitesdespised them, and brought together an army.Not because they expected to suffer fromthem, but because they had a mind to have asure prospect of treating the Hebrews illwhen they pleased; and might thereby, forthe time to come, dwell in their own citiesmore securely. They prepared, therefore,their chariots, and gathered their soldierstogether. Their cities also combined, anddrew over to them Ascalon and Ekron, whichwere within the tribe of Judah, and manymore of those that lay in the plain. They also forced the Danites to fly into the moun­tainous country, and left them not the leastportion of the plain country to set their footon. Since then these Danites were not ableto fight them, and had not land enough fortheir own support; they sent five of their meninto the midland country, to see for a land towhich they might remove their habitation.So these men went as far as the neighbour­hood of mount Libanus, and the fountains ofthe lesser Jordan, at the great plain of Sidon,a day's journey from the city. And whenthey had taken a view of the land, and foundit to be exceeding fruitful, they acquaintedtheir tribe with it. Whereupon they madean expedition with an army; and built therethe city of Dan, of the same name with theson of Jacob, and of the same name of theirown tribe. The Israelites now grew so indolent,f thatmisfortunes came heavier upon them; whichalso proceeded in part from their contemptof the Divine worship. For when they hadonce fallen off from the regularity of theirpolitical government, they indulged them­selves farther in living according to their ownwill; till they were full of the evil doings thatwere common among the Canaanites. Godtherefore was angry with them, and they for­feited by their luxury that happy state whichthey had obtained by innumerable lahpurs.For when Chushan, king of the Assyrians, hadmade war against them, they lost many oftheir soldiers in the battle; and when theywere hesieged they were taken by force.Nay, there were some who, out of fear, vo­luntarily submitted to him; and though thetribute laid upon them was more than theycould bear, yet did they pay it; and under­went all sort of oppression^ for eight yearsAfter which time they were delivered in thefollowing manner: There was one whose name was Othniel,|the son of Kenaz, of the tribe of Judah; aractive man, and of great courage. He had make against this opinion is, that at any of these public fes­tivals, the concourse of people would have been too greatfor a design of this nature to be put into execution, sincethe violence which must, of course, have heen offered tothe young women, would hardly have met with a generalconnivance. It is much more probable, therefore, thatthis was some festival peculiar to the people of Shiloh,which the Benjamites perhaps might know nothing of, andwere therefore put in mind of it by the elders of the con- gregation. Josephus tells us, that it was celebrated thricfevery year; and on this festival it might be a custom foithe voung women to go out into the fields, and there danceby themselves, which might give their ravishers the veryopportunity they wanted. Le Clerc's Commentary. B, * About An."l455B. C. t An. 1449. I From 1449 to 1441 B. C. II Judg. iii. 9.