OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 323 "accept it; and that now she would be satisfied with her son's"dignity, while he himself held the civil government, and she"had thereby the security that arose, from his peculiar ability"in governing, to all the remainder of her family: that she"was now overcome by his benefits, and thankfully accepted of"this honour showed by him to her son, and that she would"hereafter be entirely obedient: and she desired him to excuse"her, if the nobility of her family and that freedom of acting"which she thought that allowed her, had made her act too"precipitately and imprudently in this matter." So when theyhad spoken thus to one another, they came to an agreement,and all suspicions, so far as appeared, were vanished away. CHAP. III. Hcno Herod, upon his making Aristobulus high priest, took carethat he should be murdered in a little time: and vohqt apologyhe made to Antony about Aristobulus: as also concerning Jo­seph and Mariamne. $ 1. oo king Herod immediately took the high priesthoodaway from Ananelus, who, as we said before, was not of thiscountry, but one of those Jews that had been carried captivebeyond Euphrates; for there were not a few ten thousands ofthis people that had been carried captives, and dwelt aboutBabylonia, whence Ananelus came. He was one * of thestock of the high priests, and had been of old a particular friendof Herod's; and when he was first made king, he conferred thatdignity upon him, and now put him out of it again, in order toquiet the troubles in his family, though what he did was plainlyunlawful, for at no other time [of old] was any one that had oncebeen in that dignity deprived of it. It was Antiochus Epiphaneswho first broke that law, and deprived Jesus, and made his bro­ther Onias high priest in his stead. Aristobulus was the secondthat did so, and took that dignity from his brother [Hyrcanus ;] * When Josephus says here, that this Ananelus, the new high priest, was of theslack of the high priests, and since he had been just telling us that he was a priest ofan obscure family or character, ch. ii. sect . 4. it is not at all probable that he could sosoon say that he was of the stock tf the high priests. However, Josephus here makesa remarkable observation, that this Ananelus was the third that was very unjustlyand wickedly turned out of the high priesthood by the civil power, no king or gov­ernor having ventured to do so that Josephus knew of, but that heathen tyrant andpersecutor Antiochus Epiphanes, that barbarous parricide Aristobulus, the first thattook royal authority among the Maccabees; and this tyrant king Herod the Great,although afterward that infamous practice became frequent, till the very destructionof Jerusalem, when the office of high priesthood was at an end. VOL. iI. s s 25