OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. thorsof epic poetry and romance, they ascribe the victory,not to the military conduct, but to the personal va­lour, of their favourite hero. On this memorable day,Heraclius, on his horse Phallus, surpassed the bravest ofhis warriors: his lip was pierced with a spear, the steedwas wounded in the thigh, but he carried his mastersafe and victorious through the triple phalanx of the bar­barians. In the heat of the action, three valiant chiefswere successively slain by the sword and lance of the em­peror; among these was Rhazates himself; he fell likea soldier, but the sight of his head scattered grief anddespair through the fainting ranks of the Persians. Hisarmour of pure and massy gold, the shield of one hun­dred and twenty plates, the sword and belt, the saddleand cuirass, adorned the triumph of Heraclius, and if hehad not been faithful to Christ and his mother, thechampion of Rome might have offered the fourth opimespoils to the Jupiter of the Capitol.1 In the battle ofNineveh, which was fiercely fought from day-break tothe eleventh hour, twenty-eight standards, besides thosewhich might be broken or torn, were taken from the^Persians; the greatest part of their army was cut inpieces, and the victors, concealing their own loss, passedthe night on the field. They acknowledged, that on thisoccasion it was less difficult to kill than to discomfit thesoldiers of Chosroes; amidst the bodies of their friends,no more than two bow-shot from the enemy, the rem­nant of the Persian cavalry stood firm till the seventhhour of the night; about the eighth hour they retired totheir unrifled camp, collected their baggage, and dispers­ed on all sides, from the want of orders rather than ofresolution.' The diligence of Heraclius was not less ad­mirable in the use of victory; by a march of forty-eightmiles in four-and-twenty hours, his vanguard occupiedthe bridges of the greater and the lesser Zab; and the 1 Rex regia arma fero (says Romulus, in the first consecration) .... hina postea(continues Livy, 1.10.) inter tot bella, opima parta sunt spolia, adeo rara ejus for-tuna decoris. If Varro (apud Pomp. Festum, p. 306. edit. Dacier) conld justify hisliberality in granting the opime spoils to a common soldier who had slain the king orgeneral of the enemy, tbe honour would have been much more cheap and common.