OCR Output JB.VIi THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. ;, YEAR XVII.J IN the succeeding summer, very early in the spring, theAthenian embassadors returned from Sicily, accompa­nied by the Egesteans. They brought sixty talentsof uncoined silver, being a month's pay for sixty failof ships, the equipment of which for succour they wereinstructed to solicit from the Athenians. Upon this,an assembly of the people was called, and the reportsef the Egistean and their own embassadors were recei­ved, consisting of many points, specious indeed, butfalse in fact; and, so far as related to their treasure,that ** sums ample enough are already reposited in their** temples and their public treasury." In consequenceof this, a decree was made, that " a fleet of sixty ships"should sail for Sicily; the commanders, Alcibiades,"the son of Clinias, Nicias, the son ot Niceratus, andi^amachus, the son of Xenophanes, to be invested*: with full powers to act at their own discretion. The J Before Christ 415. * Lamachus, the third in this commission, seems to have been picked out for thecommand for the peculiar constitution of his own character, which was a properifieari bet*veen the cautious and phlegmatic disposition of Nicias and the siery impetu­ous ardour of Alcibiades. He was now (according to Plutarch] a brave old experien­ced officer. In his youth he had been rtm.rkable for heat and fire; a length of ser­vice and years had mellowed him into the right temper, to deliberate beforehand, andthen gallantly to carry the point into execution. But then, he wanted the meansof properly supporting the authority and dignity of His post. He was now rankedwith two of the most wealthy and noble Athenians; whereas his own condition waslow; nay, he was (according to Plutarch) so exceedingly poor, that, berore he wentto any foreign command, he was used to petition the Slate for a little money to fur-nifli him out, and even to buy him some (hoes. Mr. Wofli, in his notes on Thucy-dides, refers' in for his character to a comedy of Aristophanes (The Acbarniam) jthat is, to enquire after the character of a plain blunt officer from a professed droll,or to seek ttuih from him who ridiculed all mankind. Aristophanes hath represent­ed Lamachus as a vain-glorious roaring bully, a mere thing of arms, a creature of ver­bal p^mp and parade; contrary to all the truth of history. Writers, who live byturnirtg great ard good men into ridicule, should never be reckoned good evidence asto the truth and reality of characters, when history dissents. H 2 "whole