OCR Output AN. 29.] 557 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. ing of these strong holds; that it was properfor them to deliver the same to her, and toHerod's sons; lest, upon his death, any otherperson should seize upon the government.And that upon his recovery none could keepthem more safely for him than those of hisown family. These words, however, were notby them taken in good part; for as they hadbeen in former times faithful to Herod, theyresolved to continue so now more than ever;both because they hated Alexandra; and be­cause they thought it a sort of impiety todespair of Herod's recovery, while he wasyet alive. For they had been his old friends;and one of them, whose name was Achiabus,-was his cousin german. They sent messen­gers therefore to acquaint him with Alexan­dra's design. So he made no longer delay,*but gave orders to have her slain. Yet wasit still with difficulty, and after he had en­dured great pain that he got clear of his dis­temper. He was still sorely afflicted both inmind and body; and made very uneasy; andreadier than ever upon all occasions to inflictpunishment upon those that fell under hishand. He also slew the most intimate of hisfriends, Costobarus, and Lysimachus, andGadias, who was also called Antipater; asalso Dositheus: and that upon the followingoccasion:— Costobarus was an Idumean by birth; andone of principal dignity among them; andone whose ancestors had been priests to theKoze, whom the Idumeans had formerly es­teemed as a god. But after Hyrcanus hadmade a change in their political government,and made them receive the Jewish customs,and law, Herod made Costobarus governorof Idumea, and Gaza; and gave him his sisterSalome to wife. And this was upon hisslaughter of his uncle Joseph, who had thatgovernment before; as we have "{related already. When Costobarus had gotten to beso highly advanced, it pleased him; and wasmore than he hoped for; and he was moreand more puffed up by his good success; andin a little while he exceeded all bounds, anddid not think fit to obey what Herod, as theirruler, commanded him; or that the Idumeansshould make use of the Jewish customs, or besubject to them. He therefore sent to Cleo­patra, and informed her, that the Idumeanshad been always under his progenitors; andthat for the same reason it was but just sheshould desire that country for him of Antony;for that he was ready to transfer his friend­ship to her. And this he did, not because hewas better pleased to be under Cleopatra'sgovernment; but because he thought that,upon the diminution of Herod's power, itwould not be difficult for him to obtain theentire government over the Idumeans, andsomewhat more also. For he raised his hopesstill higher; as having no small pretences,both by his birth, and by these riches, whichhe had gotten by his constant attention tofilthy lucre. And accordingly it was not asmall matter that he aimed at. So Cleopa­tra desired this country of Antony; but failedof her purpose. Herod, on receiving intelli­gence of this, was ready to kill Costobarus:yet upon the entreaties of his sister and mo­ther he forgave him, and vouchsafed to par­don him entirely, though he still had a suspi­cion of him afterward for this his attempt. But some time afterward, when Salomehappened to quarrel with Costobarus, sheJsent him a bill of divorce, and dissolved hermarriage with him. Though this was notaccording to the Jewish laws: for with us itis lawful for a husband to do so; but a wife,if she depart from her husband, cannot ofherself be married to another, unless herformer husband put her away. However, * An. 28. t Chap. 3. J Here is a plain example of a Jewish lady giving abill of divorce to her husband: though in the days ofJosephus it was not by the Jews esteemed lawful for awoman so to do. See the like XX. 7. and among theParthians, XVIII. 9. However the Christian law, whenit allowed divorce for adultery, Matt. v. 32. allowed theinnocent wife to divorce her guilty husband; as well asthe innocent husband to divorce his guilty wife; as welearn from the shepherd of Hennas, Mand. IV. and fromthe second apology of Justin Martyr: where a prosecu­tion was brought upon the Christians upon such a di- vorce. And I think the Roman laws permitted it at thattime, as well as the laws of Christianity. Now this Ba-bas, who was one of the race of the Asmoneans, or Mac­cabees, is related by the Jews, as Dr. Hudson here re­marks, to have been so eminently religious in the Jew­ish way, that excepting the day following the tenthof Tisri, the great day of atonement; when he seemsto have supposed all his sins entirely forgiven; heused every day of the whole year to offer a sacrificefor his sins of ignorance, or such as he supposed hehad been guilty of, but did not distinctly remember.See somewhat like it of Agrippa the Great, XrX. 7.and Job i. 4, 4R2