OCR Output 268 MARATHON. MARATHON. transferred to another site; and it was natural thntthe celebrated name should be given to tho prin-cijul place in the district. Three-quarters of amile to the south-east of the tumuli of Yranathere is a risiug ground, upon which are the tracesof a Hellenic wall, apparently the peri bolus of atemple. This was probably the temple of Her­cules (Plan, 10), in whose sacred enclosure theAthenians were encamped before the battle of Ma­rathon. (Herod, vi. 1U8.) 2. There are several fragments of antiquitysituated at the head of the valley of Marathoaa ata spot called fnoi> which is no doubt the site ofthe ancient Oexok, one of the four deini of thedistrict. The retired situation of Onoe accountsfor its omission »y Strabo in his enumeration of thedeini situated near the coast (ix. p. 399). 3. There are also evident remains of an ancientdrums situated upon an insulated height in theplain of Siili, near the entrance of the pass leadingout of the Marathonian plain to Suit. These ruinsare pmbahly those of Tricokythus, the situationof which agrees with the order of the maritimedeini in Strubo, where Tricorythus immediatelyprecedes It ham n us. We learn from Aristophanesand Suidas that Tricorythus was tormented bygnats from a neighbouring marsh (fawls forty <J5tjTptttoputria, Aristoph. I.t/sutr. 1032; Suidas, s. v.JfiwLs); and at the present day the inhabitants ofJvOtcer StiU in the summer arc driven by this plagueand the bad air into the upjter village of the samename. The town was probably called Tricorythusfrom the triple peak on which its citadel wasbuilt. The site of pRonALijmirs is uncertain, but itshould probably be placed at the south-west ex­tremity of the Marathonian plain. This might boinferred from Strabo's enumeration, who mentionsfirst Probalinthus, then Marathon, and lastly Tri-corythns. Between the southern marsh and Mi.Argnliki there are foundations of buildings at aplace called I"nfori, which is, perhaps, a corruptionof Probalinthus. Close to the sea, upon a risingground in the marsh, there are some ancient re­mains, which may. perhaps, be those of the templeof Athena Hellotia (Plan, 11), which epithet theptddess is said to have derived from the marsh ofMarathon, where the temple was built, (SchoL adPind. 01 xiii. 56 ; Ktym. M. *. r. 'EAAorris.) The principal monument in the Marathonian plainwas the tumulus erected to the 192 Athenians whowere slain in the battle, and whose names wereinscribed upon ten pillars, one for each tribe, placedupon the tomb. There was also a second tumulusfor the Plataeans and slaves, and a separate monu­ment to Miltiadea. All these monuments were seenby Pausanias 600 years after the battle (i. 32. § 3).The tumulus of the Athenians still exists. It standsin the centre of the plain, about half a mile fromthe sea-shore, and is known by the name of Surd (o2op4i)f the tomb. (Plan, 13.) It is about 30 feethigh, and 200 yards in circumference, composed ofa light mould mixed with sand, amidst which havebeen found many brazen heads of arrows, about anInch in length, of a trilateral form, and pierced atthe top with a routid hole for the reception of theabaft. There are also found, in still greater num­bers, fragments of black flint, rudely nhuped by art.which have been usually considered fragments ofthe arrow-heals used by the Persian archers; butthis opinion cannot be received, as units of Lhe same kind abound in other parts of Greece, where i»Persian is reputed to have set his foot; and. on thaother hand, none have been found either at Thermo­pylae or Plataea. At a very small distance frwnthis tumulus Leake noticed a small heap of cartaand stones, which is, perhaps, the tomb of Platseamand Athenian slaves. At 500 yards north of thegreat tumulus is a ruin called Pyryo (fliVyot),consisting of the foundation of a square monumtst,constructed of large blocks of white marble; it isapparently the monument erected in honour of 3fil-tiades. (Plan, 14.) We learn from Philochorus that there was a tempi*of the Pythian Apollo at Marathon (np. ixhol. adSoph. (ted. Col. 1047); and Demosthenes relatesthat the sacred vessel was kept on this coast, andthat once it was carried off by Philip. (/***£ i.p. 49.) Pausanias (i. 32. § 3, seq.) mentions in theplain several natural objects, some of which barebeen noticed already. The lake at the northernextremity of the plain he describes *• as for the mvipart marshy, into which the flying barbarians tellthrough their ignorance of the ways; and hers it issaid that the principal slaughter of them occurred.Beyond the lake (uir«p tV \ipjnjv') are seen thestables of stone for the horses of Artapbernes, to­gether with vestiges of a tent upon the rock. Ariver flows out of the lake which, within the lake,affords water fit for cattle to drink; but, toward*the place where it enters the sea, becomes salt andfull of sea-fishes. At a little distance fnsn itsplain is a mountain of Pan, and a cavern worthy Uinspection: the entrance is narrow; but within areapartments and baths, and that which is called thegoat-stand (oito'A.ioi') of Pan, together with rocksvery much resembling goats." Leake observes thatthe marshy lake, and the river, which, becjeuugsalt towards the mouth, produces sea-hMir*, areprecisely as Pau>anias describes them. The marshis deepest towards the foot of J//. Ktmiti, wbrr*several springs issue from the foot of the rocks onthe right side of the road leading from the gnatplain to Lower StilL These springs are ap[iarvntirthe fountain M.u akia (Plan, 8), which Pausaiiiasmentions ju.it before his description of the mart fr­it derived its name from Macaria, a dang liter <s"Hercules, who devoted herself to death in behalf of4the Hcraclidae before the victory which they gainedover »he Argivea in the plain. (Conip. Strafe, eii.p. 377.) A small stream, which lias its orijriain these springs, is traced through the marsh into asmall salt lake (Plan, 9), supplied by subterraneoussources, and situated on the south-eastern extremityof the marsh, under a rocky ridge, the continuatiunof C. Stdmi. Both the ridge and salt laks amknown by the name of Dhmlnmiria (t« A(mrmrwtn, i. e. the monster-waters, so called from itssize, since 3pcUo is a common expression amour thamodern Greeks for any marvellous object). On theeastern side of tho great marsh Leake nntiorO asmall cavern in the side of Mi. DhruhmtTia, whichis perhaps the place called by Pau&axuae "Umstables of Artaphcrnes." Leake supposes that lbs-Persian commanders were encamped in the ad/j»n-ing plain of Tricorythus. lhe mountain and cavernof Pan have not yet been discovered. They acmldappear, from the description of Pausanias to hav*been a little further removed from the plmn than thomarsh and suit lake. Hence tbsy may be placed iaML KvrakL