OCR Output CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 359 • dations made on your country,'require this at your • hands.' The dictator's orders set the whole army in motion.Some of the torches that had been thrown, were re­covered, some were wrested by force from the enemy,so that on both sides they were armed with torches. Thegeneral of the horse too charged on a plan entirely new.He ordered the cavalry to draw tha bits out of the horsesmouths, and clapping spurs to his own, was the first todrive full speed into the middle of the flames, whitherhe was followed by the rest, driving at full gallop againstthe enemy. A mixture of smoke and dust, raised bythemselves, carried off the glancing of the light from theeyes both of the men and horses; nor had the appear­ance which had confounded the men, the least impres­sion on the horses: so that the cavalry, wherever theywent, beat down and trampled under foot aH beforethem. Then a new shout was raised, which surprisedand attracted the attention of both armies, till the dicta­tor cried out, « It is Quinctius, the lieutenant general,'who, with the troops under his command, has attacked • the enemy's rear:' and then with great cries pushedthe attack with greater vigour than ever. Whilst twoarmies carrying on two different attacks, hemmed in andpressed the Etrurians, in -front and in rear, so that theycould neither retire into their camp, nor effectuate theirescape to the mountains, whence a new enemy had comedown upon them; and everywhere, the greatest part ofthe Vejentes fled with the utmost precipitation to theTiber, and all the Fidenates, who were yet left alive, totheir capital Fidenae. Their flight and terror hurried them to certain death.Some of the Vejentes were cut off upon the banks ofthe river, others were pushed into the water, and car­ried down by the stream: even those who could swirn,sunk through weariness, wounds, and fear; so tfiat few,out of a great number, made the other side.—The otherpart of vhe confederates fled through the camp inio thecity, whither the Romans pursued them with great fury,especially Quinctius, and those who had come downwith him from the heights, being still fresh, as havingonly advanced towards the end of the battle.