OCR Output 396 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. levied to a great extent. The client states recognized as fullysovereign—such as the kingdoms of Numidia and Cappadocia,the allied states (civitates fcederatce) of Rhodes, Messana, Tau-romenium, Massilia, Gades—were legally exempt from tax­ation, and merely bound by their treaties to support the Ro­man republic in time of war by regularly furnishing a fixednumber of ships and men at their own expense, and, as amatter of course in case of need, by rendering extraordinaryTaxes. aid of any kind. The rest of the provincial territory on the other hand, even including the free cities, was throughoutliable to taxation; the only exceptions were the cities investedwith the Roman franchise, such as Narbo, and the communi­ties on which immunity from taxation was specially conferred(civitates immunes), such as Centuripa in Sicily. The directtaxes consisted partly—as in Sicily and Sardinia—of a title tothe tenth * of the sheaves and other field produce as of grapesand olives, or, if the land lay in pasture, to a correspondingscriptura; partly—as in Macedonia, Achaia, Cyrene, thegreater part of Africa, the two Spains, and by Sulla's ar­rangements also in Asia—of a fixed sum of money to be paidannually by each community to Rome (stipendium, tributtirri).This amounted, e.g. for all Macedonia to 600,000 denarii(£24,000), for the small island of Gyaros near Andros to150 denarii (£6 4s.), and was apparently on the whole lowand less than the tax paid before the Roman rule. Thoseground-tenths and pasture-moneys the state farmed out toprivate contractors on condition of their paying fixed quan­tities of grain or fixed sums of money; with respect to thelatter money-payments the state drew upon the respective*. communities, and left it to these to assess the amount,according to the general principles laid down by the Romangovernment, on the persons liable, and to collect it fromthem.f The indirect taxes consisted—apart from the * This tax-tenth, which the state levied from private landed property, is tobe clearly distinguished from the proprietor's tenth, which it imposed on thedomain-land. The former was let in Sicily, and was fixed once for all; thelatter—which, however, in Sicily only applied to the land acquired by Romeafter the first Punic war, not to the territory of Leontini (comp. Corpus Inscr.Lot. p. 101)—was let by the censors in Rome, and the proportion of producepayable and other conditions were regulated at their discretion (Cic. Verr. iii.6, 13; v. 21, 53; de Leg. Agr. i. 2, 4; ii. 18, 48). .f The mode of proceeding was apparently as follows. The Roman govern­ment fixed in the first instance the kind and the amount of the tax. Thus inAsia, for instance, according to the arrangement of Sulla and Casar the tenth