OCR Output 62 SIEfiE OF TARICnE^!. [b. III. eheae, as relying upon the strength of the city, and on tholake that lay by it. This lake is called by the people of thecountry the lake of Grennesareth. The city itself is situated,like Tiberias, at the bottom of a mountain; and on thosesides which are not washed by the sea had been stronglyfortified by Josephus, though not so strongly as Tiberias;for the wall of Tiberias had been built at the beginning ofthe Jews' revolt, when he had great plenty of money, andgreat power, but Taricheae partook only the remains of thatliberality. Yet had they a great number of ships gottenready upon the lake, that, in case they were beaten at land,they might retire to them ; and they were so fitted up, thatthey might undertake a sea-fight also. But as the Romanswere building a wall about their camp, Jesus and his partywere neither affrighted at their number, nor at the good orderthey were in, but made a sally upon them; and at the veryfirst onset the builders of the wall were dispersed, and thesepulled what little they had before built to pieces ; but as soonas they saw the armed men getting together, and before theyhad suffered any thing themselves, they retired to their ownmen. But then the Romans pursued them, and drove theminto their ships, where they launched out as far as might givethem the opportunity of reaching the Romans with what theythrew at them, and then cast anchor, and brought their shipsclose, as in a line of battle, and thence fought the enemy fromthe sea, who were themselves at land. But Vesrjasian hear­ing that a great multitude of them were gotten together inthe plain that was before the city, he thereupon stnt his son,with six hundred chosen horsemen, to disperse them. 2. But when Titus perceived that the enemy was very nu­merous, ho sent to his father, and informed him that he shouldwant more forces. But as ho saw a great many of the horse­men eager to fight, and that before any succors could cometo them, and that yet some of them were privately under asort of consternation at the multitude of the Jews, he stoodin a place whence he might be heard, and said to them, —" My brave Romans ! for it is right for me to put you in mindof what nation you are, in the beginning of my speech, that