OCR Output 244 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tell him what was the cause of it: howeverhe said, that he guessed it arose from thepassion of love. Amnon confessed that hewas in love with a sister of his, who had thesame father with himself. So Jonadab sug­gested to him by what method and contri­vance he might obtain his desires. For hepersuaded him to counterfeit sickness; andbade him, when his father should come tohim, to beg of him that his sister might comeand minister to him; for if that were done heshould be better, and should quickly recoverfrom his distemper. So Amnon lay down onhis bed, and pretended to be sick, as Jona­dab had suggested. And when his fathercame, and inquired how he did, he begged ofhim to send his sister to him. Accordinglyhe presently ordered her to be brought tohim: and when she was come, Amnon badeher make cakes for him, and fry them in apan, and do it all with her own hands; be­cause he should take them better from herthan from any one else. So she kneaded theflour in the sight of her brother, and madehim cakes, and baked them in a pan, andbrought them to him. But at that time hewould not taste them, but gave order to hisservants to send all that were there out of hischamber; because he had a mind to reposehimself, free from tumult and disturbance. Assoon as what he had commanded was done,he desired his sister to bring his supper tohim, into the inner parlour; which, when thedamsel had done, he took hold of her, andendeavoured to persuade her to lie with him.Hereupon the damsel cried out, and said, "Nay, brother, do not force me, nor be sowicked as to transgress the laws, and bringupon thyself the utmost confusion. Curb thisthy unrighteous and impure lust: from whichour house will get nothing but reproach anddisgrace." She also advised him to speak tohis father about this affair, as he might pro­bably permit him to marry her. This shesaid, as desirous to avoid her brother's vio­lent passion at present. But he would notyield to her; but, inflamed with love, andblinded with the vehemency of his passion,he forced his sister. But as soon as Amnonhad gratified his desires he hated the objectof them: and giving her reproachful words,bade her rise up and be gone.* And whenshe said, that this was a more injurious treat­ment than the former, because now he hadforced her, he would not let her stay withhim till the evening, but bid her go away inthe day time, and while it was light, that shemight meet with people that would be wit­nesses of her shame; he commanded his ser­vant to turn her out of his house. Hereuponshe was sorely grieved at the injury and vio­lence that had been offered her:f and renther loose coat, (for the virgins of old timewore such loose coats, tied at the hands, andlet down to the ankles, that the inner coatsmight not be seen;) and sprinkled ashes onher head; and went up the middle of thecity, crying out, and lamenting for the vio­lence that had been offered her. Now Ab­salom, her brother, happened to meet her,and asked her, what sad thing had befallenher, that she was in that plight? and when * Interpreters seem to be at a great loss to find out thereason, why Amnon's love to his sister should so soon beconverted into such a hatred, as to make him act sorudely, so brutally towards her; but it is no uncommonthing for men of violent and irregular passions, to passfrom one extreme to another. The shame which accom­panies every base action, the remorse and repentance,and many bad consequences, that immediately pursue it,make a recoil in every man's temper; and therefore it isno wonder, that a libidinous young man, who would not»pare so much as his own sister, should after fruition, andwhen the ardour of his lust was satisfied, be seized with acontrary passion, and hate the object he loved so muchbefore, when he came coolly to compare the pleasure andthe sin together, the shortness of the one, and the hei-nousness of the other. He hated his sister, when heshould have hated himself; and as this outrageous treat­ment made it impossible for his guilt to be concealed, soGod seems to have abandoned him to the tumult of hisintemperate mind, on purpose to make this punishment ofDavid's adultery more flagrant, and the prophet's predic- tion of raising up evil to him out of his tmti house, 2 Sam.xii. 11. more conspicuous; Calmet's and he Clerc's Com­mentaries, and the History of the Life of King David. B. t The manner of Tamar's signifying her vexation forthe injury and disgrace which her brother had put uponher, is expressed by her putting ashes upon her head,2 Sam. xiii. 19. And that this was an ancient custom,whereby to denote one's grief and concern for any greatloss, or calamity, is evident from that passage of the prophetconcerning the people of Tyre: "They shall cry bitterly,cast dirt upon their heads, and wallow themselves in theashes," Ezek. xxvi. 30. from Achilles's behaviour uponthe death of Patroclus, as we have it in Homer, 'Aft'I'OT^pTjd'i ae yfprfiv JXwv xoviv cbdaXosatfavXhalo xaxxeaak^s ya-osiv 5' »j<JVvvs tfpoffawrov. Iliad. 18.and from what Mezentius did upon the death of his Lausus,according to Virgil: Canitiem immundo deformat pulvere, et ambas Ad caelum tendit palmaa - .dEneid. 10. H.'