OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 251 their arras. Yet the prudence of the emperor in- chap.duced him to secure a remote frontier, perpetually XIX,exposed to the inroads of the hostile Arabs. A de­tachment of four thousand men was left at Circesium,which completed, to the number of ten thousand,the regular garrison of that important fortress *. From the moment that the Romans entered the His marchenemy's country, the country of an active and artful desertofenemy, the order of march was disposed in threecolumns. The strength of the infantry, and con­sequently of the whole army, was placed in thecentre, under the peculiar command of their master-general Victor. On the right, the brave Nevittaled a column of several legions along the banks ofthe Euphrates, and almost always in sight of thefleet. The left flank of the army was protected bythe column of cavalry. Hormisdas and Arinthauiswere appointed generals of the horse; and the sin­gular adventures of Hormisdas are not undeservingof our notice. He was a Persian prince, of the royalrace of the Sassanides, who, in the troubles of theminority of Sapor, had escaped from prison to thehospitable court of the great Constantine. Hor­misdas at first excited the compassion, and at lengthacquired the esteem, of his new masters; his valourand fidelity raised him to the military honours of theRoman service; and, though' a Christian, he mightindulge the secret satisfaction of convincing his un­grateful country, that an oppressed subject may provethe most dangerous enemy. Such was the dispo­sition of the three principal columns. The front andflanks of the army were covered by Lucillianus witha flying detachment of fifteen hundred light-armedsoldiers, whose active vigilance observed the most * The enterprise and armament of Julian are described by himself (Epist.xxvii.). Ammianus Marcellinus (xxiii. 3, 4, 5.), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 108,109. p. 332. 333.), Zosimus (1. iii. p. 160, 161, 162.), Sozoqien (1. vi. c 1.),and John Malela (torn. ii. p. 170,