OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [.CHAP. XLIV. inquisitors the trial was prepared and directed; but theycould only pronounce the sentence of the majority ofjudges, who with some truth, and more prejudice, havebeen compared to the English juries.5 To discharge thisimportant though burdensome office, an annual list ofancient and respectable citizens was formed by the prae­tor. After many constitutional struggles, they werechosen in equal numbers from the senate, the equestrianorder, and the people; four hundred and fifty were ap­pointed for single questions; and the various rolls ordecuries of judges must have contained the names of somethousand Romans, who represented the judicial autho­rity of the state. In each particular cause, a sufficientnumber was drawn from the urn; their integrity wasguarded by an oath; the mode of ballot secured theirindependence; the suspicion of partiality was removedby the mutual challenges of the accuser and defendant:and the judges of Milo, by the retrenchment of fifteen oneach side, were reduced to fifty-one voices or tablets, ofacquittal, of condemnation, or of favourable doubt.' 3.In his civil jurisdiction, the praetor of the city was trulya judge, and almost a legislator; but as soon as he hadprescribed the action of law, he often referred to a dele­gate the determination of the fact. With the increaseof legal proceedings, the tribunal of the centumvirs, inwhich he precided, acquired more weight and reputation.But whether he acted alone, or with the advice of hiscouncil, the most absolute powers might be trusted to amagistrate who was annually chosen by the votes of thepeople. The rules and precautions of freedom have re­quired some explanation; the order of despotism is simpleand inanimate. Before the age of Justinian, or perhaps of 'The office, both at Rome and in England, must be considered as an occasionalduty, and not a magistracy or profession. But the obligation of a unanimous verdictis peculiar to our laws, which condemn the jurymen to undergo the torture fromwhence they have exempted the criminal. 'We are indebted for this interesting fact to a fragment of Asconins Pedianns,who flourished under the reign of Tiberius. The loss of his Commentaries, on theOrations of Cicero has deprived as of a valuable fund of historical and legal know.Udge.