OCR Output O F R O M E. 389 .xontention between the advocates for peace, and3 O o Kthofe for war. The Romans enjoyed tranquillity on. _^.' __fall fides. The confuls having obtained information Y.R. 3Z5.from one of the tribunes, who betrayed the fecret,B'c'+17.that thofe officers intended to promote a law con­cerning the commutation of fines*, which would behighly acceptable to the people, they themfelvestook the lead in propofing it. The next confuls Y.R. 31s.were Lucius Sergius Fidenas, a fecond time, andB.c.416.Hoftus Lucretius Triciptinus, in whofe confulatenothing worth mention occurred. They were fuc- Y.R. 317.ceeded by Aulus Cornelius Cofius and Titus Quin-B'C.*1S'tius Pennus, a fecond time. The Veientians madeinroads on the Roman territories, and a report pre­vailing, that fome of the youth of Fidenas were con­cerned in thofe depredations, the cognizance of thatrnatterwas committed to Lucius Sergius, QuintiusSer-vilius, and Mamercus ^Emilius. Some of them, whocould not give fatisfactory reafons for their being ab-fent from Fidenx, at the time, were fent into banim-ment to Oftia. A number of new fettlers were add­ed to the colony, to whom were afligned the landsof thofe who had fallen in war. There was verygreat diftrefs that year, occafioned by drought; forbefides a want of rain, the earth deftitute of its natu­ral moifture, fcarce enabled the rivers to continuetheir courfe j in fome places, the want of water wasfuch, that the cattle died of thirft, in heaps, aboutthe fprings and rivulets, which had ceafed to flow;in others, they were cut off by the mange, and theirdiforders began to fprcad by infection to the humanfpecies. At firft they fell heavy on the hulbandmenand flaves, foon after the city was filled with them: \ * The fines impofed in early times were certain numbers of fheep oro<" :i j afterwards it was ordered by law that thefe fine* might he ap.;'i ,11. il, anil the value paid in money. Another law fixed a certainrare at which the cattle fhould be eliimated, 100 afes for auox, 10 tora &ttf. 'c c 3 and