OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 391 the lower sea, to Genoa, opened the campaign with aninvasion of Lignria. Two towns, Clastidium and Li-tubium, both belonging to the Ligurians, and twostates of the same nation, Celela and Cerdicium, sur­rendered to him. And now, all the states on this sideof the Po, except the Boians among the Gauls, andthe Ilvatians among the Ligurians, were reduced tosubmission: no less, it is said, than fifteen townsand twenty thousand men. He then led his legionsinto the territory of the Boians. 30. The Boian army had, not very long before,crossed the Po, and joined the Insubrians and Caeno-manians; for, having heard that the consuls intendedto act with their forces united, they wished to increasetheir own strength by this junction. But when infor­mation reached them that one of the consuls was ra­vaging the country of the Boians, a dispute instantlyarose. The Boians demanded that all, in conjunction,should carry succor to those who were attacked;while the Insubrians positively refused to leave theircountry defenceless. In consequence of this dissen­sion, the armies separated; the Boians went to defendtheir own territory, and the Insubrians, with the Cae-nomanians, encamped on the banks of the river Min-cius. About five miles below this spot the consulCornelius pitched his camp close to the same river.Sending emissaries hence into the villages of the Cae-nomanians, and Brixia, the capital of their tribe, helearned with certainty that their young men had takenarms without the approbation of the elders; and thatthe Caenomanians had not joined in the revolt of theInsubrians, by any authority from the state. Onwhich he invited to him the principal of the natives,and endeavored to contrive and concert with them themeans of inducing the younger Caenomanians to for­sake the party of the Insubrians; and either to marchaway and return home, or to come over to the sideof the Romans. This he was not able to effect; butso far, he received solemn assurances that, in caseof a battle, they would either stand inactive, or,