OCR Output 370 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. throw the oligarchy hy means of this double official power, careseemed now taken to prevent some possibly wiser successorfrom making a better use of the same lever. According tothe previous arrangement the magistrate immediately nomi­nated by the people might have had a military position;the Sullan arrangement, on the other hand, reserved such aposition exclusively for those magistrates whom the senateconfirmed in their authority by prolonging their term ofoffice. No doubt this prolongation of office had now be­come a standing usage; but it still—so far as respects theauspices and the name, and constitutional formality in gene­ral—continued to be treated as an extraordinary extensionof their term. This was no matter of indifference. Noone, or at the utmost the burgesses alone, could depose theconsul or praetor from his office; the proconsul and pro­praetor were nominated and dismissed by the senate, so thatby this enactment the whole military power, on which every­thing ultimately depended, became formally at any ratedependent on the senate.Shelving of Lastly we have already observed that the highest of allthe censor- magistracies, the censorship, though not finally abolished,,lnp- was shelved in the same way as formerly the dictatorship. Practically it might certainly be dispensed with. Provisionwas otherwise made for filling up the senate. From thetime that Italy was practically tax-free and the army wassubstantially formed by enlistment, the register of thoseliable to taxation and service lost its chief significance; and,if disorder prevailed in the equestrian roll or the list of thoseentitled to the suffrage, that disorder was probably notaltogether unwelcome. There thus remained only thecurrent financial functions, which the consuls had hithertodischarged when, as frequently happened, no election ofcensors had taken place, and which they now took as a partof their ordinary official duties. Compared with the sub­stantial gain, that by the abeyance of the censorship themagistracy lost its crowning dignity, it was a matter oflittle moment and was not at all prejudicial to the soledominion of the supreme governing corporatiou, that—witha view to satisfy the ambition of the senators now so muchmore numerous—the number of the Pontifices was increasedfrom eight (i. 307), that of the Augurs from nine (i. 307),that of the Custodiers of Oracles from ten (i. 304), to fifteeneach, and that of the Epulones from three (ii. 399) to seven.