OCR Output 404 ROMAN EMPIRE. more; and the loss of Damascus and Jerusalem, thebloody fields of Aiznadin and Yermuk, may be imputedin some degree to the absence or misconduct of the so­vereign. Instead of defending the sepulchre of Christ,he involved the church and state in a metaphysical con­troversy for the unity of his will; and while Heracliuscrowned the offspring of his second nuptials, he wastamely stripped of the most valuable part of their inhe­ritance. In the cathedral of Antioch, in the presence ofthe bishops, at the foot of the crucifix, he bewailed thesins of the prince and people; but his confession in­structed the world, that it was vain, and perhaps impious,to resist the judgment of God. The Saracens were in­vincible in fact, since they were invincible in opinion;and the desertion of Youkinna, his false repentance andrepeated perfidy, might justify the suspicion of the em­peror, that he was encompassed by traitors and apos­tates, who conspired to betray his person and their coun­try to the enemies of Christ. In the hour of adversity,his superstition was agitated by the omens and dreamsof a falling crown; and, after bidding an eternal farewellto Syria, he secretly embarked with a few attendants, andabsolved the faith of his subjects.1 Constantine, his eldestson, had been stationed with forty thousand men at Cae-sarea, the civil metropolis of the three provinces of Pa­lestine. But his private interest recalled him to the By­zantine court; and, after the flight of his father, he felthimself an unequal champion to the united force of thecaliph. His vanguard was boldly attacked by threehundred Arabs and a thousand black slaves, who, in thedepth of winter, had climbed the snowy mountains ofLibanus, and who were speedily followed by the victo­rious squadrons of Caled himself. From the north andsouth the troops of Antioch and Jerusalem advanced « See Ockley, (vol. 1. p. 308, 312.) who laughs at the credulity of his author.When Heraclius bade farewell to Syria, Vale Syria et ultinium vale, he prophesiedthat the Romans should never re-enter the provmce till the birth of an inauspiciouschild, the future scourge of the empire. Abulfeda, p. 68. I am perfectly ignorantof the mystic sense, or nonsense, of this prediction.