OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 4J BOOKX. CONTIIKING THE INTERVAL OF ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-TWO YEARS AND A HALF. [FKOM THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES TO THE FIRSTOF CYRUS.] CHAP. I. Hem Sennacherib made an expedition against Hezekiah,- ivhatthreatenings Rabshakeh made to Hezekiah when Sennacheribleas gone against the Egyptians; how Isaiah the prophet en­couraged him; how Sennacherib, having failed of success inEgypt* returned thence to Jerusalem; and how, upon hisflndinghis army destroyed, he returned home ,- and what befell him alittle afterward. 4 1. IT was now the fourteenth year of the governmentof Hezekiah, king of the two tribes, when the king of Assy­ria, whose name was Sennacherib, made an expedition againsthim with a great army, and took all the cities of the tribe ofJudah and Benjamin by force; and when he was ready to bringhis army against Jerusalem, Hezekiah sent ambassadors to himbeforehand, and promised to submit, and pay what tribute heshould appoint. Hereupon Sennacherib, when he heard of whatoffers the ambassadors made, resolved not to proceed in the war,but to accept of the proposals that were made him; and if hemight receive three hundred talents of silver, andj thirty talentsof gold, he promised that he would depart in a Friendly manner;and he gave security upon oath to the ambassadors that he wouldthen do him no harm, but go away as he came. So Hezekiahsubmitted, and emptied his treasures, and sent the money, as sup­posing he should be freed from his enemy, and from any fartherdistress about his kingdom. Accordingly, the Assyrian king tookit; and yet had no regard to what he had promised; but while hehimself went to the war against the Egyptians and Ethio­pians, he left his general Rabshakeh, and two other command­ers, with great forces, to destroy Jerusalem. The names ofthe two other commanders were Tartan and Rabsaris. 2. Now as soon as they were come before the walls, they pitch­ed their camp, and sent messengers to Hezekiah, and desired that