OCR Output ISO [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. night might hot'come on too soon, and be anobstruction to the zeal of the Hebrews in pur­suing their enemies, insomuch that Joshuatook the kings, who were hidden in a certaincave at Makkedah, and put them to death.Now that the day was lengthened at thistime, and was longer than ordinary, is ex­pressed in the books laid up in the temple. These kings who made war with, and wereready to fight the Gibeonites, being thusoverthrown; Joshua returned again to themountainous parts of Canaan. And when hemade a great slaughter of the people there,and took their prey, he came to the camp atGilgal.* And now there went a great fameabroad among the neighbouring people ofthe courage of the Hebrews; and those thatheard what a number of men were destroyed,were greatly affrighted at it. So the kingsthat lived about mount Libanus, who wereCanaanites; and those Canaanites that dweltin the plain country, with auxiliaries out ofthe land of the Philistines, pitched their campat Beroth, a city of the Upper Galilee, notfar from Cadesh; which is itself also a placein Galilee. The number of the whole army was three hundred thousand armed footmen,ten thousand horsemen, and twenty thousandchariots. So that the multitude of the ene­mies alarmed both Joshua himself, and theIsraelites; and they, instead of being full ofhope of success, were superstitiously timo­rous, with the great terror with which theywere stricken. Whereupon God upbraidedthem with the fear they were in; and askedthem, whether they desired a greater helpthan he could afford them? and promisedthem that they should overcome their ene­mies; withal charging them to make theirenemies' horses useless, and to burn theirchariots. So Joshua became full of courageupon these promises of God, and went outsuddenly against the enemies; and after fivedays' march he came upon them, and joinedbattle with them; and there was a terriblefight, and such a number were slain, as couldnot be believed by those that heard it. Healso went on the pursuit a great way; anddestroyed the entire army of the enemies, fewonly escaped; and all the kings fell in thebattle; insomuch that when there wanted mento be killed, Joshua slew their horses, and space of a civil or artificial day, i. e. for twelve hours.But Maimonides is of opinion, (More Nevoch. part 2.chap. 39.) and in this he is followed by some Christianwriters, (Grotius and Masius, in locum,) that there was nosuch cessation of the sun and moon's motion, but that thewhole purport of the miracle was this:—" That God, atJoshua's request, granted him and his soldiers such a de­gree of spirits, activity, and despatch, as enabled them togain a complete victory, and as much execution in one dayas might otherwise have taken up two:" but this is a con­struction so repugnant to the genuine sense of the wordsas to need no formal confutation. There is something more, however, to be said to thenotion of other learned men, who with regard to the timewhen Joshua might send up his request, and the miraclebegin, think it more probable that he should pray for alonger day, when he perceived the sun just going to leavehim, than when it was in its height. But Joshua, no doubt,had reasons for what he did. He was an old experiencedgeneral, eager for a complete victory, and able to computewhat time it would take to achieve it; so that his fear oflosing any part of the present advantage, might make himpray that the day might be thus prolonged, until he hadobtained the whole. If the sun, in its declension, hadstopped its course, it might have answered his purpose per­haps; hut then it had given a juster handle to the sug­gestions of those who would deny the whole merit of themiracle. For, if the retardation of the sun had not hap­pened until it was going to set, Spinosa might, with a muchbetter grace, have attributed the extraordinary length ofthis day to the refraction of its rays from the clouds, whichat that time were loaded with hail; (Tract. Theol. Politic.C. 2.) or Peirerius, to some aurora borealis, or parhelium, which, after the setting of the sun, might appear about theterritories of Gibeon, and so be mistaken for the sun'sstanding still; but now, by fixing it in its meridian point,all the cavils are effectually silenced; (Praedam. lib. 4. c.6.) and God, no doubt, who heard him so readily, (Cal-met's Disser. sur le Commandment, &c.) inspired the He­brew general with that wish or prayer, which otherwiseperhaps would never have come into his head. KeiVsAstronomical Lectures. Besides this general argument of Mr. Keil's, Mr. Whis-ton has one, which he accounts no less than a demonstra­tion: "If the earth," says he, " have an annual revolutionabout the sun, it must affect the apparent motion of all theother planets and comets; and notwithstanding the regu­larity of their several motions in their own orbits mustrender these regular motions, to us, as living upon themoving earth, sometimes direct, and that swiftly andslowly; sometimes stationary, and sometimes retrograde,and that swiftly or slowly also; and all this, at such cer­tain periods, in such certain places, for such certain dura­tions, and according to such certain circumstances, (asgeometry and arithmetic will certainly determine,) andnot otherwise. Now that this is the real case in fact, andthat every one of these particulars are true in the astro­nomical world, all that are skilful in that science do freelyconfess, even those who do not think fit to declare openlyfor this annual revolution of the earth, which yet is thenatural and certain consequence of that concession."Whiston's Astron. Princ. of Relig. The reader that isdesirous to know more both of the annual and diurnal mo­tion of the earth, may consult Mr. Derham's Prelim. Dissto his Astro-Theol. B. * Josh. x. 15.