OCR Output 268 THE DECLINE AND FALL temple of Jupiter Urius, on a promontory that commanded theentrance of the Strait: and, so inconsiderable were the dreaded in­vasions of the barbarians, that this body of troops surpassed in num-the'citFes of" ^er tne Gothic army. But it was in numbers alone that they fur-Bitbyma. passed it. They deserted with precipitation their advantageouspost, and abandoned the town of Chalcedon, most plentifully storedwith arms and money, to the discretion of the conquerors. Whilstthey hesitated whether they should prefer the sea or land, Europeor Asia, for the scene of their hostilities, a perfidious fugitive pointedout Nicomedia, once the capital of the kings of Bithynia, as arich and easy conquest. He guided the march, which was onlysixty miles from the camp of Chalcedon "*, directed the resistlessattack, and partook of the booty; for the Goths had learned sufficientpolicy to reward the traitor, whom they detested. Nice, Prusa,Apaemæa, Cius, cities that had sometimes rivalled, or imitated, thesplendor of Nicomedia, were involved in the fame calamity, which,in a few weeks, raged without controul through the whole provinceof Bithynia. Three hundred years of peace, enjoyed by the softinhabitants of Asia, had abolished the exercise of arms, and removedthe apprehension of danger. The ancient walls were suffered tomoulder away, and all the revenue of the most opulent cities wasreserved for the construction of baths, temples, and theatres '".Retreat of When the city of Cyzicus withstood the utmost effort of MithrU the Goths* 'J dates "+, it was distinguished by wise laws, a naval power of twohundred galKes, and three arsenals; of arms, of military engines, andof corn It was still the feat of wealth and luxury; but of itsancient strength, nothing remained except the situation, in a littleisland of the Propontis, connected with the continent of Asia onlyby two bridges. From the recent sack of Prusa, the Goths ad­vanced within eighteen miles"6 of this city, which they had de­moted to destruction; but the ruin of Cyzicus was delayed by a for­tunate accident. The season was rainy, and the lake Apolloniates, the