OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105 and heroes to mankind. Both these institutions hadlong since degenerated from their primitive glory; yetsome reproach may be justly inflicted on the avarice andjealousy of a prince, by whose hands such venerable ruinswere destroyed. Athens, after her Persian triumphs, adopted the phi- T*A|j;'1001*losophy of Ionia and the rhetoric of Sicily; and thesestudies became the patrimony of a city whose inhabitants,about thirty thousand males, condensed, within the pe­riod of a single life, the genius of ages and millions.Our sense of the dignity of human nature is exalted bythe simple recollection, that Isocrates6 was the companionof Plato and Xenophon; that he assisted, perhaps withthe historian Thucydides, at the first representations ofthe CEdipus of Sophocles and the Iphigenia of Euripi­des; and that his pupils iEschines and Demosthenescontended for the crown of patriotism in the presenceof Aristotle, the master of Theophrastus, who taught atAthens with the founders of the Stoic and Epicureansects/ The ingenious youth of Attica enjoyed the be­nefits of their domestic education, which was communi­cated without envy to the rival cities. Two thousand dis­ciples heard the lessons of Theophrastus;8 the schools ofrhetoric must have been still more populous than thoseof philosophy; and a rapid succession of students dif­fused the fame of their teachers, as far as the utmostlimits of the Grecian language and name. Those limitswere enlarged by the victories of Alexander; the artsof Athens survived her freedom and dominion; andthe Greek colonies, which the Macedonians planted inEgypt, and scattered over Asia, undertook long and fre - 'The life of Isocrates extends from Olymp. 86. 1. to 110. 3. (ante Christ. 43(i—•438.) See Dionys. Halioarn. torn. 2. p. 149, 150. edit. Hndson; Plutarch (siveanonymous) in Vit. X. Oratornm, p. 1538—1543. edit. II. Steph. Phot. cod. 259.p. 1453. f The schools of Alliens are copiously, thotigh concisely, represented in the Fortn-.na Attica of Meursins. (c. 8. p. 59—73. in torn. 1. Opp.) For the state and ai ts ofthe city, see the first book of Pausanias, and a small tract of Dicaearchns (in the se­cond volame of Hudson's Geographers), who wrote'abont Olymp. 117* Dodwelt'sDjssei tat. seel. 4. t Diogeit. Laerl. dc Vit. Phiks >pli.l. v. segra. 37v p. 289. VOL. V. I