OCR Output 472 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. from the historical side; although the dissertations of theunwieldy annalists of this age, such as those of Hemina " onthe Censors " and of Tuditanus "on the Magistrates" canhardly have been better than their chronicles. Of moreinterest were the treatise on the magistracies by MarcusJunius the friend of Gaius Gracchus, as the first attempt tomake the investigation of antiquity serviceable for politicalobjects,* and the metrically composed Didascalice of thetragedian Accius, an essay towards a literary history of theLatin drama. But those early attempts at a scientifictreatment of the mother-tongue still bear a very unscien­tific stamp, and strikingly remind us of our orthographicliterature in the Bodmer-Klopstock period; and we maylikewise without injustice assign but a modest place to the Stilo. antiquarian researches of this epoch. The Roman, who established the investigation of the Latin language andantiquities in the spirit of the Alexandrian masters on a100. scientific basis, was Lucius iElius Stilo about 650 (P. 442).He first went back to the oldest monuments of the lan­guage, and commented on the Salian litanies and theTwelve Tables. He devoted his special attention to thecomedy of the sixth century, and first formed a list of thepieces of Plautus which in his opinion were genuine. Hesought after the Greek fashion to determine historicallythe origin of every single phenomenon in the Eoman lifeand dealings and to ascertain in each case the "inventor,"and at the same time brought the whole annalistic traditionwithin the range of his research. The success, which he hadamong his contemporaries, is attested by the dedication tohim of the most important poetical, and the most importanthistorical, works of his time, the Satires of Lucilius and theAnnals of Antipater; and this first Soman philologistinfluenced the studies of his nation also in future timesby transmitting his spirit of investigation both into wordsand into things to his disciple Varro. Rhetoric. The literary activity in the field of Latin rhetoric was, as might be expected, of a more subordinate kind. There wasnothing here to be done but to write manuals and exercise-books after the model of the Greek compendia of Herma-goras and others; and these accordingly the schoolmasters * The assertion, for instance, that the quaestors were nominated in the regalperiod by the burgesses, not by the king, is as certainly false as it obviouslybears the impress of a partisan character,