OCR Output A. D. 17.] or tacitm. 111 For this disinterested conduct the reason assignedwas, that the dignity of two such illustrious citizensdeserved to be supported. In general, it was a rulewith Tiberius, in all cases where he had no previoustitle from connexion or friendship, not to accept anyproperty as testamentary heir. When humour, ca足price, or passion induced a stranger to dismherit hiskindred, and make a disposition in favour of theprince, he declared it an inofficious testament. Tohonest and virtuous poverty he often showed himselfa friend, to prodigality he was an inflexible enemy.In the class of spendthrifts he considered VibidiusVarro, Marius Nepos, Appius Appianus, CorneliusSylla, and Quintus Vitellius. These men, undone bytheir own extravagance, were either expelled the se足nate, or allowed to vacate their seats. XLIX. The plan undertaken by Augustus for thebuilding of temples in the room of such as had beeninjured by time, or damaged by fire, was now com足pleted. Tiberius dedicated the various structures oftheir respective deities; one near the Great Circus to' Bacchus, Proserpine, and Ceres, originally raised inconsequence of a vow made by Aulus Posthumiusthe dictator; a temple to Flora, near the same place,formerly dedicated by Lucius and Marcus Publicius,during their sedileship ; another to Janus, in the herb-market, founded by Caius Duillius, the first who bya naval victory added lustre to the Roman name, andtriumphed over the Carthaginians. The temple ofHope, vowed by Atilius in the same Punic war, wasdedicated by Germanicus. L. Meanwhile, the law of violated majesty wenton with increasing fury. A prosecution founded onthat cruel device was set on foot against ApureiaVa-rilia, descended from a sister of Augustus, andgrand niece to that emperor. She was charged withspeaking defamatory words to the dishonour of Au-(justus, and uttering sharp invectives against Tiberiusand his mother. Adultery was another head of ac足cusation : though related to the C*sarian family, shehad, by her licentious conduct, brought disgrace onthat illustrious name. The last article was thrown