OCR Output 162 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. ("Book IV. flew into a violent rage when king Bocchus afterwardsconsecrated a golden sculpture at the Capitol, which re­presented the surrender of Jugurtha to Sulla; and yet inthe eyes of unprejudiced judges the services of these twothrew the generalship of Marius very much into the shade—more especially Sulla's brilliant expedition to the desert,which had made his courage, his presence of mind, hisacuteness, his power over men to be recognized by thegeneral himself and by the whole army. In themselvesthese military rivalries would have been of little moment,if they had not been mixed up with the conflict of politicalparties, if the opposition had not supplanted the senatorialgeneral by Marius, and if the party of the government hadnot, with the deliberate intention of exasperating, praisedMetellus and still more Sulla as the military celebritiesand preferred them to the nominal victor. We shall haveto return to the fatal consequences of these irritating com­parisons when narrating the internal history.Reorganiza- Otherwise, this insurrection of the Numidian client-statetion of Nil- passed away without producing any noticeable changemidia. either in political relations generally or even in those of theAfrican province. By a deviation from the policy else­where followed at this period Numidia was not convertedinto a Roman province; evidently because the countrycould not be held without an army to protect the frontieragainst the barbarians of the desert, and the Bomans wereby no means disposed to maintain a standing army in Africa.They contented themselves accordingly with annexing themost westerly district of Numidia, probably the tract fromthe river Molochath to the harbour of Saldae (Bongie)—thelater Mauretania Caesariensis (province of Algiers)—to thekingdom of Bocchus, and with handing over the kingdom ofNumidia thus diminished to the last legitimate grandson ofMassinissa still surviving, Gauda the half-brother of Ju-108. gurtha, feeble in body and mind, who had already in 646 atthe suggestion of Marius asserted his claims before thesenate.* At the same time the Gaetulian tribes in the * Sallust's political <7enre-painting of the Jngurthine war—the only picturethat has preserved its colours fresh in the utterly faded and blanched tradi­tion of this epoch—closes with the fall of Jugurtha, faithful to its style ofcomposition, poetical, not historical; nor does there elsewhere exist any con­nected account of the treatment of the Numidian kingdom. That Gauhibecame Jugurtha's successor, is indicated by Sallust c. 65 and Dio. Fr. 79, 4,