OCR Output 132 THE LAKE ASPHALTITIS. [b. IV. air, it becomes exceeding cold, and becomes of a nature quitecontrary to the ambient air: as in winter again it becomeswarm; and if you go into it, it appears very gentle. Theambient air is here also of so good a temperature, that thepeople of the country are clothed in linen only, even whensnow covers the rest of Judea. This place is one hundredand fifty furlongs from Jerusalem, and sixty from Jordan.The country, as far as Jerusalem, is desert and stony; butthat as far as Jordan and the lake Asphaltitis lies lower in足deed, though it be equally desert and barren. But so muchshall suffice to have said about Jericho, and of the great hap足piness of its situation. 4. The nature of the lake Asphaltitis is also worth de足scribing. It is, as I have said already, bitter and unfruitful.It is so light [or thick] that it bears up the heaviest thingsthat are thrown into it; nor is it easy for any one to makethings sink therein to the bottom if he had a mind so to do.Accordingly, when Vespasian went to see it, he commandedthat some who could not swim should have their hands tiedbehind them and be thrown into the deep, when it so happenedthat they all swam, as if a wind had forced them upwards.Moreover, the change of the color of this lake is wonderful,for it changes its appearance thrice every day, and as therays of the sun fall differently upon it, the light is variouslyreflected. However, it casts up black clods of bitumen inmany parts of it; these swim at the top of the water, and re足semble both in shape and bigness headless bulls: and whenthe laborers that belong to the lake come to it, and catch holdof it as it hangs together, they draw it into their ships; butwhen the ship is full, it is not easy to cut off the rest, for itis so tenacious as to make the ship hang upon its clods tillthey set it loose with the menstrual blood of women, and withurine, to which alone it yields. This bitumen is not onlyuseful for the caulking of ships, but for the cure of men'sbodies: accordingly, it is mixed in a great many medicines.The length of this lake is five hundred and eighty furlongs,where it is extended as far as Zoar, in Arabia ; and its breadthis a hundred and fifty. The country of Sodom borders upon