OCR Output 264 LIVY. every particular, he gave them an escort back to Han足nibal. Hannibal received no pleasure from any oftheir accounts. They informed him that Masinissa hap足pened to arrive that very day with six thousand foot,and four thousand horse; and he was particularlystruck by the confidence of the enemy, which, he wellknew, was not conceived without reason. Wherefore,although he was himself the cause of the war, and had,by his coming, occasioned the violation of the truce,and the breaking off the negotiations; yet, thinkingthat he might obtain-more reasonable terms, by suing-for peace while his strength was intire, than after beingdiscomfited, he sent a message to Scipio, requesting aconference. Whether he took this step on his ownjudgment or by the order of the government, I cannottake on me to affirm. Valerius Antias says that afterhe had been defeated by Scipio in the first engagement,in which twelve thousand fighting men were slain, andone thousand seven hundred taken, he came as ambas足sador, with ten others, into the camp to Scipio. Scipiodid not decline the conference; and the two generals,by concert, moved forward their camps, in order thatthey might (he more conveniently meet. Scipio satdown at a small distance from the city Nedagara, in aspot every way commodious, besides having waterwithin a javelin's cast: Hannibal took possession of ahill, four miles distant; safe and convenient in all re足spects, except that there was no water near. In thespace between them a spot was chosen open to viewon all sides, that there might be no room for treachery. 30. Their armed attendants having retired to anequal distance on both sides, here met (each attendedby a single interpreter) the two greatest generals, notonly of the age they lived in, but of all who have beenrecorded in any former time, and equal to any of thekings or commanders of any nations whatever. Onsight of each other they both stood for some timesilent, struck dumb as it were by mutual admiration.At length Hannibal began thus: ' Since it has been soordered by fate, that I, who first commenced hostilities