OCR Output C. V.] TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS. 313 shows as they deserve, and the magnificence of them all;such indeed, as a man could not easily think of, as performedeither by the labor of workmen, or the variety of riches, orthe rarities of nature: for almost all such curiosities as themost happy men ever get by piecemeal were here one heapedon another, and those both admirable and costly in their na­ture ; and as all brought together on that day demonstratedthe vastness of the dominions of the Romans: for there washere to be seen a mighty quantity of silver, and gold, andivory, contrived into all sorts of things, and did not appearas carried along in pompous show only, but, as a man maysay, running along like a river. Some parts were composedof the rarest purple hangings, and so carried along, andothers accurately represented to the life what was embroideredby the art of the Babylonians. There were also preciousstones that were transparent, some set in crowns of gold andsome in other ouches as the workmen pleased; and of thesesuch a vast number were brought, that we could not butthence learn how vainly wo imagined any of them to berarities. The images of the gods were also carried, being aswell wonderful for their largeness as made very artificially,and with great skill of the workmen: nor were any of theseimages of any other than very costly materials ; and manyspecies of animals were brought, every one in their ownnatural ornaments. The men also, who brought every oneof these shows, were great multitudes, and adorned with pur­ple garments, all over interwoven with gold; those that werechosen for carrying these pompous shows having also aboutthem such magnificent ornaments as were both extraordinaryand surprising. Besides these, one might see that even thegreat number of the captives was not unadorned, while thevariety that was in their garments and their fine texture con­cealed from the sight the deformity of their bodies. Butwhat afforded the greatest surprise of all was, the structureof the pageants that were borne along: for, indeed, he thatmet them could not but be afraid that the bearers would notbe able firmly enough to support them, such was their magni­tude : for many of them were so made that they were on threeIV. —27