OCR Output CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 4SS . • CHAP. XXI; . • \ i Veii taken and plundered by the Soldiers. JL HE dictator then wept out to take the auspices, andordered the soldiers to arm. 'O Pythian Apollo, (saidhe,) it is by thy inspiration, and under thy direction,that I am going to carry destruction to Veii; to you,then, I devote the tenth part of the spoils. And Oqueen Juno, who now residest in Veii, be pleased tofollow us victorious to our city, which shall soon be thycity, and where thou shalt possess a temple worthy thymajesty.' Having fmished his prayers, and his armybeing sufficiently numerous, he ordered an assault to bemade on all sides of the place at once, to give the be­sieged no opportunity of discovering their danger fromthe mine. The Vejentes never dreamed that they werebetrayed by their own diviners, and given up by foreignoracles; that some of their tutelarv gods had been invit­ed to partake of the spoils, and others conjured to leavetheir city, to take up with, new habitations and newtemples among the enemy; and, in shori, that their lasthour was come: and, therefore, feariug nothing less thanthat their walls were undermined, and their citadel fullof enemies, were eager to run in emulation of each other•to the walls, unable to guess why the Romans, who hadnot appeared out of their lines for many days, advancedall mi a sudden like madmen, to attack the place on allskies. A story goes here, that his majesty of Veii was, at thatinstant, sacrificing to the gods, when the soldiers in themine heard the diviner say, that the gods would give thevictory to him who should dissect the entrails of that vic­tim; and the Romans immediately opening the mine,seized upon the entrails, and carried them to the dicta­tor. But in things of so old a date, I think it sufficientto take what is probable for true. Incidents'of this kind,which are fitter for the stage, that dehghts in the marvel.Ious, than for history, it is not worth while either to af­firm or refute. A select body of troops, which at that time filled thewine, appeared suddenly in arms in the temple of Juno,