OCR Output tlhap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF 1HE JEWS. bene : yet did not he take Abii alive ; because, 'when he foiitdhimself encompassed on 'every side, he slew himself. 2. But although the grandees of Adiabene had failed in theirfirst attempt, as being delivered .UpJ by Gfod into their kind'shands, yet would they not even thence 'quiet,' but wrote againto Vologases, who was then king of'Panliia, and desired thathe would kill Izates, and set over fherri some other potentate,who should be of a Parthian family ;'for they said, That " theyM hated their own king for abrogating the laws of their fore­fathers, and embracing foreign custonfts1.j" When the king ofParthia heard this,' he boldly made war upon Izates ; and he hadjust pretence for this'war; he sent to .hint, and demanded backthose honourable privileges whfch had'btefr bestowed on him byhis father, and threatened, on his refrfsftlj, to mnke war uponhim. Upon hearing of this, liat^s was'under no small troubleof mind, as thinking it would be a reproach upon him to ap­pear to resign those privileges that had been bestowed upon him,out of cowardice ; yet, because he knew, that though the king ofParthia should receive back those honours, yet would he not bequiet, he resblvcd to commit himself to God, his protector, inthe present danger he was in of his life ; and as he esteemedhim to be his principal assistant, he entrusted his children andhis wives'to a very strong fortress, and laid up his corn in hiscitadels, and' set the hay and the grass on fire. And when hehad thus put things in order, as well as he could, he awaitedthe coming of the enemy. And when the king of Parthia wascome, with a great army of footmen and horsemen, which hedid sooner than was expected (for'he'iniarehed in great haste),and had cast up a bank at the river that-parted Adiabene fromMedia; Izates also pitched his camp-not'' far off, having withhim six thousand horsemen. But there came a messenger toIzates, sent by the king of Parthia} who told him, « How large" his dominions were, as reaching from the river Euphrates to" Bactria, and enumerated that king's subjects : he also threaten*- '" ed him, that he should be punished, as a person ungrateful to" his lords ; and said, that the God whom he worshipped could" not deliver him of the king's hands."- -When the messengerhad delivered this his message, Izates replied, That " he knew" the king of Parthia's power was much greater than his own ;" but that he knew also that God was- 'much more powerful" than all men." And when he had returned him this answer,he betook himself to make supplication* to God, and threw,.-" • ', himself * This mourning, and fasting, and praying, used by Izates, with prostration nfhis body, and ashes upon liis head, are plain signs that he was become either a.Jew, or an Ebionite Christian, who indeed differed not much from proper Jews'bee chap. vi. sect. i. However, his supplications were heard, .and he was pro.videmialJy delivered from that imminent dapger he was in.