OCR Output Chap. XVI. yrARS OF THE JEWS. 295 securely, he marched to take the remaining parts of Galilee, andto drive away the garrisons placed there by Antigonus. 2. But when Herod had reached * Sepphoris, in a very greatsnow, he took the city without any difficulty; the guards thatshould have kept it, flying away before it was assaulted; wherehe gave an opportunity to his followers that had been in distressto refresh themselves,there bein'g in that city a great abundanceof necessaries. After which he hasted away to the robbers thatwere in the caves, who over.ran a great part of the country,and did as great mischief to its inhabitants as a war itself couldhave done. Accordingly, he sent before-hand three cohorts offootmen, and one troop of 'horsemen' to the village Arbela,and came himself f forty days afterwards with the rest of hisforces. Yet were not the enemy affrighted at his assault,' butmet him in arms; for their skill was that of warriors, but theifboldness was the boldness of robbers: when, therefore, it cam6to a pitched battle, they put to flight Herod's left wing withtheir right one; but Herod, wheeling about on the' sudden fromhis own right wing, came to their assistance, and both madehis own left wing return back from its flight, and fell upon thepursuers, and cooled their courage, till they could not bear theattempts that were made directly upon them, and so turnedback and ran away. 3. But Herod followed them, and slew them as he followedthem, and destroyed a great part of them, till those that re.imained were scattered beyond the river [Jordan], and Galileewas freed from the terrors they had been under, exceptingfrom those that remained, and lay concealed in caves, which re­quired longer time ere they could be conquered. In order towhich Herod, in the first place, distributed the fruits of theirformer labours to the soldiers, and gave every one' of them anhundred and fifty drachmae of silver, and a great deal more totheir commanders, and sent them into their winter quarters.He also sent to his youngest brother Pheroras, to take care of agood market for them, where they might buy themselves pro­visions, and to build a wall about Alexandrium, who took careof both those injunctions accordingly. 4. In * This Sepphoris, the metropolis of Galilee, so often mentioned by Josephu»thas coins still remaining, rsvptapwair, as Spanheim here informs U3. f This way of speaking, after 40 dayi, is interpreted by Josephus himself, onthe &fitb day; Aiitiq. B. XIV. ch. xv. sect. iv. Vol. TI. In like manner, when.Josephus Says, ch. xxxiii. &ect. 8. that Herod lived after he had ordered Antipaterto be slain 5 da\s; this is by himself interpreted, Anriq. B. XV11. ch. viii. sect. i.Vol. HI. that he died on the 5/A day afterivard. See also what is in this book, chap'xiii. sect. I. after ttvo years, is, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. xiii. sect. 3. Vol. II. on Ibtear. And Dean Aldrich here notes that this way of speaking is familiar te,' , '