OCR Output 60 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. seemed superfluous to guard their own honour. In likemanner not only was Cyprus retained by Egypt in spite ofthe decree of the senate to the contrary, but, when after the146. death of Philometer (608) Euergetes succeeded him andso reunited the divided kingdom, the senate allowed thisalso to take place without opposition. After such occurrences the Roman influence in thesecountries was practically destroyed, and events pursuedtheir course there for the present without the help of theRomans; but it is necessary for the right understandingof the sequel that we should not wholly omit to notice thehistory of the nearer, and even of the remoter, East. Whilein Egypt, shut off as it is on all sides, the existing state ofthings did not so easily admit of change, in Asia both to the westand east of the Euphrates the peoples and states underwentessential modifications during, and partly in consequenceof, this temporary suspension of the Roman superintendence.Beyond the great desert of Iran there had arisen not longafter Alexander the Great the kingdom of Palimbothraunder Chandragupta (Sandracottus) on the Indus, and thepowerful Bactrian state on the upper Oxus, both formed froma mixture of national elements with the most eastern offshootsof Hellenic civilization. To the west of these began thekingdom of Asia, which, although diminished under Autio-ehus the Great, still stretched its unwieldy bulk from theHellespont to the Median and Persian provinces, and em­braced the whole basin of the Euphrates and Tigris. Thatking had still carried his arms beyond the desert into theterritory of the Parthians and Bactrians; it was only underhim that the vast state had begun to melt away. Notonly had western Asia been lost in consequence of thebattle of Magnesia; the total emancipation of the twoCappadocias and the two Armenias—Armenia proper inthe north-east and' the region of Sophene in the south­west—and their conversion from principalities dependent onSyria into independent kingdoms, also belong to this period(ii. 273). Of these states Great Armenia in particular,under the Artaxiads, soon attained to a considerableposition. "Wounds perhaps still more dangerous wereinflicted on the empire by the foolish levelling policy of175-164. his successor Antiochus Epiphanes (579-590). Althoughit was true that his kingdom resembled an aggregation ofcountries rather than a single state, and that the differences