OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. adjacent to the ocean l\ To repel their desultory incursions, itwas found necessary to create a naval power; and the judiciousmeasure was pursued with prudence and vigour. Gessoriacum orBoulogne, in the narrow streights of the British channel, waschosen by the emperor for the station of the Roman fleet; and thecommand of it was intrusted to Carausius, a Menapian of themeanest origin IS, but who had long signalized his skill as a pilot,and his valour as a soldier. The integrity of the new admiralcorresponded not with his abilities. When the German pyratessailed from their own harbours, he connived at their passage, buthe diligently intercepted their return, and appropriated to his ownuse an ample share of the spoil which they had acquired. Thewealth of Carausius was, on this occasion, very justly consideredas an evidence of his guilt; and Maximian had already given ordersfor his death. But the crafty Menapian foresaw and prevented theseverity of the emperor. By his liberality he had attached to hisfortunes the fleet which he commanded, and secured the barbariansin his interest. From the port of Boulogne he sailed over to Britain,persuaded the legion, and the auxiliaries which guarded that island*to embrace his party, and boldly assuming, with the imperialpurple, the title of Augustus, defied the justice and the arms of hisinjured sovereign l6. When Britai n was thus dismembered from the empire, its im- Importanceportance was sensibly felt, and its loss sincerely lamented. The °fBslUiaRomans celebrated, and perhaps magnified, the extent of that nobleisland, provided on every side with convenient harbours; the tem­perature of the climate, and the fertility of the foil, alike adaptedfor the production of corn or of vines; the valuable minerals withwhich it abounded; its rich pastures covered with innumerableflocks, and its woods free from wild beasts or venomous serpents.Above all, they regretted the large amount of the revenue ofBritain, whilst they confessed, that such a province well deserved to A a a 2 become