OCR Output •62 .TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK I, lowest and most childish superstitions; and, by his ex­ample, the people were also infected. For the Romans,in general, returned to the same spirit that prevailed un­der Numa, persuaded that no other means were leftthem•of escaping from the present calamity, but recourse tothe gods, and appeasing their wrath with sacrifices. It is also said, that the king himself, in examining theregister of Numa, found that there were certain privatesacrifices-oflered annually to Jupiter Eliciu?, which heshut himself up to perform. Butsoniething being wrong,either in point of time, or mode of execution, he saw nosigu from heaven of its acceptance; and besides, Jupiter•was so provoked at his mistaken zeal, that he and hishouse were consumed with fire from -heaven.*—Tullus•reigned with great glory for thirty-two years. CHAP. XXXII,Ancus Al&riius renews tlie institutions of Numa. A. R. r the death of Tullus, the administration, agreeablyto the constitution, devolved on the Senate. They namedan inter-rex, who, having called a convention, AncusMartius was declared king by the people, and the Senateconfirmed their choice. He was the grandson of Numa,by a daughter. The new king, mindful of his grand­father's reputation, found, that however glorious the lastreign had been iu other respects, in the worship of thegods, either in point of frequency, or mode of perform­ance, there had been a prodigious neglect. Therefore,to avoid all innovations, he resolved to restore the insti­tutions of Numa; and for that purpose, he orders thehigh priest to collect them from the royal register, andtranscribe them upwn tables, to be exposed to public view.From this specimen, his own subjects fond of ease,and the neighbouring nations too, gladly hoped, that theking would implicitly follow his grandfather's plan incivil, as well as religious matters. In this confidence,the Latins, with whom Tullus had settled all things bytreaty, began to pull up a spirit; and, having made anincursion upon the Roman territory, treated with inso- # The fire from heaven iu ascribed to Ancus Mjirtius.