OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 291 but, while the Phoenicians yielded from despair, the king ofSinope did the very opposite and assembled his troops andships. "Does not even he who must succumb," he is reportedto have said, "defend himself against the robber'?" Hisson Arioljarzanes received orders to advance into Cappadocia;a message was sent once more to the Roman envoys to informthem of the step to which necessity had driven the king,and to demand their ultimatum. It was to the effect whichwas to be anticipated. Although neither the Roman senatenor king Mithradates nor king Nicomedes had desired therupture, Aquillius desired it and war ensued (end of 665). 89. Mithradates prosecuted the political and military prepara- Prepara­tions for the passage of arms thus forced upon him with all his tions ofcharacteristic energy. First of all he drew closer his alliance M1thrada-with Tigranes king of Armenia, and obtained from him thepromise of an auxiliary army, which was to march into ante­rior Asia and to take possession of the soil there for kingMithradates and of the moveable property for king Tigranes.The Parthian king offended by the haughty carriage of Sulla,though not exactly coming forward as an antagonist to theRomans, did not act as their ally. To the Greeks the kingendeavoured to present himself in the character of Philipand Perseus, as the defender of the Greek nation against thealien yoke of the Romans. Pontic envoys were sent to theking of Egypt and to the last remnant of free Greece, theleague of the Cretan cities, and adjured those for whom Romehad already forged her chains to rise now at the last momentand save Hellenic nationality; the attempt was in the caseof Crete at least not wholly in vain, and numerous Cretanstook service in the Pontic army. Hopes were entertainedthat the lesser and least of the protected states—Numidia,Syria, the Hellenic republics—would successively rebel, andthat the provinces would revolt, particularly anterior Asia,the victim of unbounded oppression. Efforts were made toexcite a Thracian rising, and even to arouse Macedonia torevolt. Piracy, which even previously was flourishing, wasnow everywhere let loose as a most welcome ally, and withalarming rapidity squadrons of corsairs, calling themselvesPontic privateers, filled the Mediterranean far and wide.With eagerness and delight accounts were received of thecommotion among the Roman burgesses and of the Ita­lian insurrection subdued yet far from extinguished. Nodirect relations, however, were formed with the discom-