OCR Output 204 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. paration of the Peloponnesian fleet, coasting from thence underthe command of Phormio, appeared before Astacus. Makingthere a descent, they pierced into the midland parts of Acarna-nia, with four hundred heavy-armed Athenians from on boardthe fleet, and four hundred Messenians ; and expelled fromStratus, Coronta, and other places, the disaffected part of the in­habitants ; and having re-established at Coronta, Cynes, theson of Theolytus, embarked again on board their ships. Theyjudged it not adviseable in the winter season, to undertakeany thing against the Oeniadae, the only people of Acarnaniawho had persisted in continual hostilities against them. Forthe river Achelous, that takes its rise from mount Pindus,and runs through Dolopia, the provinces of the Agraans andthe Amphilochians, and all the plains of Acarnania, passingabove by the city of Stratus, and discharging itself into the seanear the Oeniadae, renders all the adjacent country one conti­nued morass, and by a stagnation of water makes it impracti­cable for an army in the winter-season. Most of the isles ofthe Echinades lie over-against the Oeniade, not greatly distantfrom the mouth of the Achelous; insomuch that the riverbeing great, causeth a continual afflux of sand, and by it someof these islands are already joined to the main-land; and itis expected that all the rest in a short time will be so too :For the current is large and rapid, and brings down with itgreat quantities of sand. The isles stand thick ; and stopping,bind fast together from farther dissipation, the sands broughtdown by the current. They lie not in a line, but in an al­ternate situation one from another, preventing the straitcourse of the waters forwards into the sea. They are furtheruncultivated, and of no large extent. The tradition is—that " all the time with Sitalces. He is an honest heart, and loves Athenians"dearly. In good truth, he is doatingly fond of you all: He is for ever" writing upon the walls, O rare Athenians J And his son, whom we made"an Athenian, longs mightily for some of your dainty sausages, and hath"pressed his father to succour his dear countrymen. He, at a solemn sa-" crifice, swore he would; and hath got such a numerous army at his " heels, that the Athenians cry out What a vast swarm of gnats is " coming along here !"