OCR Output C. V.] T H E I D U SI E A N S. 115 tended accusation, and in a few words confuted the crimeslaid to bis charge; after which he turned his speech to hisaccusers, and went over distinctly all their transgressions ofthe law, and made heavy lamentations upon the confusionthey had brought public affairs to. In the mean time thezealots grew tumultuous, and had much ado to abstain fromdrawing their swords, although they designed to preserve theappearance and show of a judicature to the end. They werealao desirous, on other accounts, to try the judges, whetherthey would be mindful of what was just at their own peril.Now the seventy judges brought in their verdict, that theperson accused was not guilty, as choosing rather to die them­selves with him, than to have his death laid at their doors:hereupon there arose a great clamor of the zealots upon hisacquittal; and they all had indignation at the judges, for notunderstanding that the authority that was given them wasbut in jest. So two of the boldest of them fell upon Zacha-rias in the middle of the temple, and slew him; and as hefell down dead, they bantered him, and said, — " Thou hastalso our verdict, and this will prove a more sure acquittal tothee than the other." They also threw him down from thetemple immediately into the valley beneath it. Moreover theystruck the judges with the backs of their swords, by way ofabuse, and thrust them out of the court of the temple; andspared their lives with no other design than that, when theywere dispersed among the people in the city, they might be­come their messengers, to let them know they were no betterthan slaves. 5. But by this time the Idumcans repented of their coming,and were displeased at what had been done; and when theywere assembled together by one of the zealots, who had comeprivately to them, he declared to them what a number ofwicked pranks they had themselves done in conjunction withthose that had invited them, and gave a particular accountof what mischiefs had been done against their metropolis. Hosaid that " they had taken arms as though the high-priestswere betraying their metropolis to the Romans, but had found