OCR Output 341 MESSENIA MESSENIA. session of the western slopest but how far their terri­tory extended on this si«lc has been a matter of dis­pute. The confines of the two countries was markedby a temple of Artemis Limnatis, at a place calledLimnae, where the Messenians and Laconians offeredsacrifices in common; and it was the murder of theSpartan king Telechu at this place which gave oc­casion to the First Messenian War. (Paus. hi. 2. §6,iv. 4. §2, iv. 31. §3; comp. Strab. vi. p. 257, viii.p. 362.) The exact site of Limnae is not indicatedby Pausanias: and accordingly Leake, led chiefly bythe name, supposes it to have been situated in theplain upon the left bank of the Pamisus, at themarshes near the confluence of the Aris and Pamisus,and not far from the site of the modern town of Xisi(Nijffl, island), which derives that appellation fromthe similar circumstance of its position. (Leake,MoretL, vol. i. p. 361.) But Ross has discovered theruins of the temple of Artemis Limnatis on the west­ern slope of Mt. Taygetus, on a part of the moun­tains called Volimnos (Bu>\tfivo$\ and amidst theruins of the church of Panaghia Volimniattssa (Jia-vayla hw\ifiyidrttnra). Volimnos is the name of ahollow in the mountains near a mountain torrentflowing into the Nedon. and situated between the vil­lages of Sitzara and Poliani, of which the latter isabout 7 miles NE. of Katanvita, the ancient Phe-rac. The fact of the similarity of the names, Bt£-Xtfjivot and Af/ivoi, and also of Uavayla Ba>\ifivtd-rtcffa and 'Aprtfits At^rdrts, as well as the ruinsof a temple in this secluded spit, would alone makeit probable that these are the remains of the cele­brated temple of Artemis Limnatis; but this is ren­dered certain by the inscriptions found by Rossupon the spot, in which this goddess is mentioned byname. It is also confirmed by the discovery of twoboundary stones to the eastward of the ruins, uponthe highest ridge of Taygetus, upon which are in­scribed "Opos haKtbatunvi *pbs Mfaerftrnv. Thesepillars, therefore, show that the boundaries of Mes-senia and Laconia must at one period have been atno great distance from this temple, which is alwaysrepresented as standing near the confines of the twocountries. This di-trict was a frequent subject ofdispute between the Messenians and Lacedaemonianseven in the times of the Roman Empire, as we shallsee presently. Tacitus calls it the "DentheliatesAger" {/list, iv. 43); and that this name, or some­thing similar, was the proper appellation of the dis­trict, appears from other authorities. Stephanas It.speaks of a town "Denthalii" (AtvddKim, #. v.:others read A<A0dVtoi), which was a subject ofcontention between the Messenians and Lacedae­monians. Alcman also (op. A then. i. p. 31), in enu­merating the different kinds of Laconian wine, men­tions also a Denthian wine (A<V0i$ olvoi), whichcame from a fortress Dcnthiades (l«r A«F0idoW ipv-fiarSs Tirol), as particularly good. Ross conjecturesthat this fortress may have stood up<in the moun­tain of Su George, a little S. of Sit&tru, where a fewancient remains arc said to exist. The wine of thismountain is still celebrated. The position of theabove-mentioned places will be best shown by theaccompanying map. But to return to the history of Messenia. Ineach of the two wars with Sparta, the Messenians,after being defeated in the open plain, took refugein a strung fortress, in Ith<>me in the first war, andin Kira or Ira in the second, where they maintainedthemselves for several years. At the conclusion ofthe Second Measenian War, many of the Mvaseuuuu left their'country, and settled in various parti «fGreece, where their descendants continued to d*- 1as exiles, hoping for their restoration to their nativeland. A large number of them, under the tw0 »riof Aristomenes, sailed to Rhegium in Italy, andafterwards crossed over to the opposite coast of Sicily,where they obtained possession of Zancle, to whichthey gave their own name, which the city baa re­tained down to the present day. [Muvu**.]Those who remained were reduced to the conditioof Helots, and the whole of Messenia was incor­porated with Sparta. From this time (a. ci 66$)to the battle of Leuctra (b. c. 371), a period of nearly300 years, the name of Messenia was blotted out ofhistory, and their country bore the name of Lacor.a,a fact which it is important to recollect in read in;the history of that period. Once only the Mesaenianiattempted to recover their independence. The greatearthquake of B.C. 464, which reduced Sparta to aheap of ruins, encouraged the Messenians and otherHelots to rise against their oppressors. They tookrefuge in their ancient stronghold of Ithome; andthe Spartans, after besieging the place in rain fvten years, at length obtained possession of it, byallowing the Messenians to retire unmolested fromPeloponnesus. The Athenians settled the exiles atNaupactus, which they had lately taken from theLocri Ozolae; and in the Peloponnesian War thrywere among the most active of the allies of Athens.(Thuc. i. 101—103; Paus. iv. 24. § 5, acq.) Thecapture of Athens by the Lacedaemonians comprlWthe Messenians to quit Naupactus. Many of tLe-ntook refuge in Sicily and Rhegium, where some Vtheir countrymen were settled; but the greal**r fartsailed to Africa, and obtained settlements annxig 'heKuesperitae, a Libyan people, (Pans. iv. 26. § 2 )After the power of Sparta had been broken by thebattle of Leuctra (B. c. 371), Kpaminondas, in orc>rto prevent her from regaining her former iuflcrocein the Peloponnesus, resolved upon forming an Ar­cadian confederation, of which Megalopolis was t) bethe capital, and at the same time of restoring theMessenian state. To accomplish the latter objrrt, henot only converted the Helots into free Mr-^nians,but he despatched messengers to Italy, Sicily, andAfrica, where the exiled Messenians had settled, ir.-viting them to return to their native land. Histmmmons was gladly resporded to, and in a.C 369the new town of Messene was built. Its cHada* atacropolis was placed upon the summit of Ml Ithomt,while the town itself was situated lower down onthe slope, though connected with its acrofuli* b* acontinuous wall. (Diod. xv. C6; Paus. W. 17.)[Messenk.] During the 300 years of exile, theMessenians retained their ancient customs and EVwicdialect; and even in the time of Pausanias theyspoke the purest Doric in Peloponnesus. (Pans.iv. 27. § 11 ; comp. Mtiller. Dor. vol. iL p. all,transl.) Other towns were also rebuilt, but a grratpart of the land htill continued uncultivated »:»ideserted. (Strab. viii. p. 302.) Under the \r\t**~tion of Thebes, and in close alliance with the Arca­dians (comp. Polyb. iv. 39), Meuene maintained tt»independence, and the Lacedaemonian* lost Mf»«*«afor ever. On the downfall of the Theban Miprtmnry,the Mchsenians courted the alliance of pin: y •(Macednn, and consequently took no part with theother Greeks at the battle of Chaeroneta. a. c. SSft-(Paus, iv. 28. § 2.) Philip rewarded them by <pel ling the Lacedaemonians to cede to them f'and certain districts. (Polyb. ix. 18; Tac -aaav