OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 447 daughter he brought forth from his own head,) made a con­spiracy against him to seize upon him and confine him, as hehad himself seized upon and confined his own father before. 35. And justly have the wisest men thought these notionsdeserved severe rebukes ; they also laugh at them for deter­mining that we ought to believe some of the gods to be beard­less and young, and others of them to bo old, and to havebeards accordingly: that some are set to trades: that one godis a smith, and another goddess is a weaver; that one god isa warrior, and fights with men: that some of them are harp­ers, or delight in archery; and, besides, that mutual seditionsarise among them, and that they quarrel about men, and thisso far that they not only lay hands upon one another, butthat they are wounded by men, and lament, and take on forsuch their afflictions. But what is the grossest of all in pointof lasciviousness, are those unbounded lusts ascribed to almostall of them and their amours, which how can it be other thana most absurd supposal, especially when it reaches to the malegods, and to the female goddesses also? Moreover, the chiefof all their gods, and their first father himself, overlooks thosegoddesses whom he hath deluded and begotten with child, andsuffers them to be kept in prison or drowned in the sea. Heis also so bound up by fate, that he cannot save his own off­spring, nor can he bear their deaths without shedding of tears.These are fine things, indeed! as are the rest that follow.Adulteries truly are so impudently looked on in heaven bythe gods, that some of them have confessed they envied thosethat were bound in the very act. And why should they notdo so, when the eldest of them, who is their king also, hathnot been able to restrain himself in the violence of his lustfrom lying with his wife so long as they might get into theirbed-chamber ? Now some of the gods are servants to men,and will sometimes be builders for a reward, and sometimeswill be shepherds; while others of them, like malefactors, arebound up in a prison of brass. And what sober person isthere who would not be provoked at such stories, and rebukethose that forged them, and condemn the great silliness ofthose that admit them for true ? Nay, others there are that