OCR Output Chap. VI. ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 23 Jehu sent two epistles, the one to them that brought up the chil足dren, the other to the rulers-of. Samaria, which said, That"they should set up the most valiant of Ahab's sons for king,"for that they had abundance of chariots, and horses, and ar-"mour, and a great army, and fenced cities, and that by so do-"ing they might avenge the murder of Ahab." This he wrotet.o try the' intentions ;of those of Samaria. Now when the ru足lers, and those that had brought up the children, had read theletter, they were afraid, and,considering that they were not at allable to oppose him, and that he had already subdued two verygreat kings, they returnedhim thisanswer, That "they owned him"for their lord, and would do whatsoever he bade. them." Sohe wrote back to them, such a reply as enjoined them to obeywhat he gave order for, and to cut off the heads of Ahab's sons,and send them to him. Accordingly, the rulers sent for thosethat brought up the sons of Ahab, and commanded them to slaythem, to cut off their heads, and send them to Jehu. So theydid whatsoever they were commanded, without omitting anything at all, and put them up in wicker baskets, and sent themto Jezreel. And when Jehu, as he was at supper with his friends,was informed that the heads of Ahab's sons were brought, heordered them to make two heaps of them, one before each ofthe gates, and in the morning he went out to take a view ofthem, and when he saw them, he began to say to the people thatwere present, That "he dkl himself make an expedition against"his master [Joram], and slew him, but that it was not"he that slew all these: and he desired them to take notice,"that as to Ahab's family, all things had come to pass accord-"ing to God's prophecy, and his house was perished, according"as Elijah had foretold." And when he had farther destroy足ed all the kindred of Ahab that were found in Jezreel, he wentto Samaria; and as he was upon the road, he met the relationsof Ahaziah king of Jerusalem, and asked them, whether they weregoing? they replied, that they came to salute Joram, and theirown king Ahaziah, for they knew not that he had slain themboth: So Jehu gave orders that they should catch these, and killthem, being in number forty-two persons. 6. After these, there met him a good and a righteous man,whose name was Jehonadab ,' and who had been his friend of old.He saluted Jehu, and began to commend him, because he haddone every thing according to the will of God, in extirpating thehouse of Ahab. So Jehu desired him to come up into his cha足riot, and make his entry with him into Samaria; and toldhim, That "he would not spare one wicked man, but would"punish the false prophets, and false priests, and those that de-"ceived the multitude, and persuaded them to leave the wor-"ship of God Almighty, and to worship foreign gods : and that