OCR Output THE ANNALS [A. U.C. 773. I' j g under the control of his father, ought nott. :,werable for the civil war. He mentionedtV 1 due to an illustrious house, and even la-rr 4.ntH the unhappy lot of the deceased, thoughli j.. '. : upon him by misconduct. He spoke in fa­vour of i'lancina, but with an air of embarrassment,conscious of his own duplicity. The intercession ofhis mother was a colour for the part he acted; butthinking men were by no means satisfied. On thecontrary, their hatred of Livia was more embitteredthan ever. They exclaimed without reserve, " Shall" the grandmother admit to her presence a woman" stained with the blood of her grandson ? Shall she" converse in familiar freedom with a murderess ?"Must she receive to her arms an abandoned woman," and by her influence rescue her from the vengeance" of the senate ? The laws protect the meanest citi-" zen; but in, the case of Germanicus they have lost" their vigour. Vitellius and Veranius poured forth" their eloquence in the cause of a prince cut off by" treachery, while the emperor and his mother side" with Plancina. That pernicious woman may now" with impunity continue her trade of poisoning; she" may practise her detestable arts on the life of Agrip-" pina and her children; she may proceed in her ini-" quity, and, with the blood of an illustrious, but un-" happy family, glut the rage of a dissembling uncle" and a worthless grandmother." For two days to­gether Rome was amused with a mock-trial of Plan­cina. Tiberius, in the mean time, exhorted Piso'ssons to stand forth in defence of their mother. Thecharge was opened; the witnesses were examined, andthe orators spared neither zeal nor eloquence in sup­port of the prosecution: no reply was made; thewretched condition of a helpless woman began to ope­rate on the feelings of the fathers, and prejudice wasmelted into pity. Aurelius Cotta, the consul, was thefirst that gave his vote according to a settled rulewhenever the question was put by the emperor.The opinion of Gotta was, that the name of Pisoshould be rased out of the public registers: that partof his estate should be confiscated, and the rest granted