OCR Output Ki.Mi SYRACUSAE. SYRACUSAE. tlie indent city, from whence the table-land slopesvery gradually to the sea. Though of small eleva­tion, this plateau is bounded on all sides by pre­cipitous hanks or cliffs, varying in height, but onlyaccessible at a few points. It may be considered asnaturally divided into two portions by a slightvalley or depression running across it from X. to.N., about a mile from the sea: ot these the upper ortriangular portion was known as BnrOLAB, theeastern portion adjoining the sea bore the name ofAcHRAplNA, which thus forms in some degree adistinct and separate plateau, though belonging, infact, to the same mass with Eptpolae. The SE. angle of the plateau i.s separated fromthe Great Harbour by a small tract of low and levelground, opposite to which lies the island of Ok-TVr.i.v, a low islet about a mile in length, extendingacross the mouth of the Great Harbour, and ori­ginally divided by only a narrow strait from themainland, whilst its southern extremity was sepa­rated from the nearest point of the headland ofJ'lemmyriutn by an interval of about 1200 yards,forming the entrance into the Great Harbour. Thislast was a spacious bay, of above 5 miles in cir­cumference; thus greatly exceeding the dimensionsof what the ancients usually understood by a ]M>rt.but forming a very nearly land-locked basin of asomewhat oval form, which afforded a secure shelterto shipping in all weather; and is even at the pre­sent day one of the finest harbours in Sicily. Butbetween the island of Ortygia and the mainland tothe N. of it, was a deep bight or inlet, formingwhat was called the Lesser Port or Portus Lac-CUIUS, which, though very inferior to the other,was still equal to the ordinary requirements of an­cient commerce. S. of the Great Harbour again rose the peninsularpromontory of PlRMMTRTUM, forming a table-landhounded, like that on the N. of the bay, by pre­cipitous escarpments and cliffs, though of no greatelevation. This table-land was prolonged by an­other plateau at a somewhat lower level, boundingthe southern side of the Great Harbour, and ex­tending from thence towards (he interior. On its NK.angle and opposite to the heights of Epipolae, stoodt lie temple of Jupiter Olympius, or ths Oi.ymtiki m,overlooking the low marshy tract which intervenesbetween the two table-lands, and through whichthe river Anapus finds its way to the sea. Thebeautiful stream of the Cvane rises in a sourceabout l.J mile to the N. of the Olympienni, andjoins its waters with those of the Anapns almostimmediately below the temple. From the foot ofthe hill crowned by the latter extends a broad tractof very low marshy ground, extending along theinner side of the Great Harbour quite to the wallsof the city itself. A portion of this marsh, whichseems to have formed in ancient times a shallowpool or lagoon, was known by the name of Lyst-mbleia (Awn/aaAeia, Time. vu. 53; Theocr, Id.xvi. 84). though its more ancient appellation wouldseem to have been SykaCO (2v^a«w), from whencethe city itself was supposed to derive its name.(Staph. B. s. V. 2vpanovoai; Scymn. Ch. 281.) Itis, however, uncertain whether the names of Syracoand Ly.siincleia may not originally have belonged todifferent portions of these marshes. This marshytract, which is above a mile in breadth, extendstowards the interior for a considerable distance, tillit is met by the precipitous escarpments of thegreat table-land of the interior. The proximity of these marshes must always have been prrjadjetilthe healthiness of the situation: sod tat Wjeai,that when Archias and Myscelltu were aW* s»found Syracuse and Cn>tona, the latter chat*while the former preferred wtahii (Steph. B. lt±points to the acknowledged insalubrity *i" theeven in its most flourishing days. Hot mother respect the situation was admirable; sadprosperity of Syracuse wm doubtless owtbjgreat degree to natural as well as political estIt was, moreover, celebrated for the niiknesiserenity of its climate, it being genrr»flr asathat there was no day on which the m «■visible at Syrac—0 (Cic. Vrrr. v. 10), aswhich it is said still to retain at the preset! II. HlSTORT. Syracuse was, with the single exceftvei ofthe most ancient of the Gret-k colonies •It was a Corinthian colony, sent cat from tsarunder a leader named, Archias, son of Euarrtsvbelonged to the powerful family of the"but had been compelled to expatriatecording to some accounts the eoloiiy »a*ened by an admixture of Dorian or Locrssiwith the original Corinthian settlers: bur it isthat theSynicnsans regarded themselves ■ allof pure Corinthian origin (Theocr. Id. it. 91maintained relations of the closest amity wrbparent city. The colony wm frurkled in s.cand the first settlers established tbem^ehrss aisland of Ortygia. to which it U probablecity was confined for a considerable f*riJ.vi. 2; Strab. vi. p. 269; Scymn. Ch. 47Mann. Par.; concerning the date, ae CF. If. vol. i. p. 164 ) The name of Ortyt»dently Grevk, and derived from theepithet ot I>i;«ru*. to whom the i*Und wasas consecrated (Diod. v. 3); but the citfhave assumed from the wry begin oinr, tfc*of Syraeusae, which was derived, as alreadytioned, fmm the name of the aJjoin:r*lake, Syraco, doubtless an indigences nan*has no signiticatjon in Greek. It appearsthat the form Syraco was used by E|the name of the city itself, but thisa mere poetic license. (Strab. riii. p. 354.) As tn the case of most of tbe GreekSicily, we have very little in formal k*the early history and progress ofmay infer that it rose steadily, ifprosperity, from the circumstance that itto extend its power by the frnnilaliai afcolonies: that of Acrae wiihin 70own establishment (n, c 664),later (n. c. 644), and Camanrta 43 y-»wards, or b. c. 599. Nooe of then eaiavever, rose to any considerable power: ilriooslj the policy of Syracuse to keep tbaposition of mere dependencies; andhaving given umbrage to the pared csry,st roved only 46 years after itsvi. 5; Scymn. Ch. 294—296.) Sjhowever, free from internal dissertstions. An obscure notice preserved to t» K»cydides indicates the occurrence of thaw asas b. c. 648, which led to the exp«lsi<« «itor clan called the Blyletidae, whoexile and jotned in t be f *nndatmn of(Thuc vi. 5.) Another indication of suchis found in Aristotle {Pol v. 4), but we are