OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 305 forfeited the esteem and affection of the Romans. Thedesign of the African and Italian wars was boldly conceiv­ed and executed: and his penetration discovered the ta­lents of Belisarius in the camp, of Narses in the palace.But the name of the emperor is eclipsed by the names ofhis victorious generals; and Belisarius still lives, to up­braid the envy and ingratitude of his sovereign. Thepartial favour of mankind applauds the genius of a con­queror, who leads and directs his subjects in the exerciseof arms. The characters of Philip II. and of Justinianare distinguished by the cold ambition which delights inwar, and declines the dangers of the field. Yet a colos­sal statue of bronze represented the emperor on horse­back, preparing to march against the Persians in the ha­bit and armour of Achilles. In the great square beforethe church of St. Sophia, this monument was raised on abrass column and a stone pedestal of seven steps; andthe pillar of Theodosius, which weighed seven thousandfour hundred pounds of silver, was removed from thesame place by the avarice and vanity of Justinian. Fu­ture princes were more just or indulgent to his memory;the elder Andronicus, in the beginning of the fourteenthcentury, repaired and beautified his equestrian statue:since the fall of the empire, it has been melted into can­non by the victorious Turks,4 I shall conclude this chapter with the comets, the Come ts,earthquakes, and the plague, which astonished or afflict- tlas^Jied the age of Justinian. I. In the fifth year of his reign, and in the month ofSeptember, a comet" was seen during twenty days in thewestern quarter of the heavens, and which shot its raysinto the north. Eight years afterward, while the sun t See in the C. P. Christiana of Ducange, (lib. 1. c. 24. no. 1.) a chain of originaltestimonies, from Prooopius in the sixth, to Gyllius in the sixteenth, century. e The first comet is mentioned by John Malata, (tom. 2. p. 190. 219.) and Theo-phanes; (p. 151.) the seoond by Procopius. (Persic. lib. 2. c. 4.) Yet I stronglysuspect their identity. The paleness of the sun (Vandal, lib. 2. C. 14.) is suppliedby Theopuines (pv 158.) to a different year.