OCR Output 106 LIVY. tor had ordered,) was no small incitement: rushing ontherefore like madmen, they disordered the enemy'sbattalions at the very first onset; and the master ofthe horse, when he saw at a distance the fire of theoamp, which was a signal agreed on, made a season­able attack on their rear. The Samnites, thus assailedon every side, fled different ways. A vast number,who had gathered into a body through fear, yet fromconfusion incapable of acting, were surrounded andcut to pieces. The enemy's camp was taken and plun­dered ; and the soldiers being laden with the spoil, thedictator led them back to the Roman camp, highly re­joiced at the.success, but still more at finding, contraryto their expectation, every thing there safe, except asmall part only, which was injured or destroyed by thefire. 24. They then marched back to Sora [A. U. C. 440.B.C. 312]; and the new consuls, Marcus Petilius andCains Sulpicius, receiving the army from the dictatorFabius, discharged a great part of the veteran soldiers,having brought with them new cohorts to supply theirplace. ' Now while, on account of the difficulties pre­sented by the situation of the city, no mode of attackcould be devised which promised any certainty of suc­cess, and the taking of it must either he done at theexpense of a great deal of time, or at a desperate risk,a townsman deserting, came out of the town privatelyby night, and, when he had got as far as the Romanwatches, desired to be conducted instantly to the con­suls : which being complied with, he made them anoffer of delivering the place into their hands. Fromhis answers to their questions respecting the means bywhich he intended to accomplish his design, it appearedto be not ill formed ; and he persuaded them to removethe Roman camp, which was almost close to the walls,to the distance of six miles; alleging that this wouldrender the guards by day and the watches by nightthe less vigilant. He then desired that some cohortsshould post themselves the following night in the woodyplaces under the town, and took with himself ten chosen