OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. Belisarius may be added to the rare examples, of HenryIV. of Pyrrhus and of Alexander. After this first and unsuccessful trial of their enemies,the whole army of the Goths passed the Tiber, andformed the siege of the city, which continued above ayear, till their final departure. Whatever fancy mayconceive, the severe compass of the geographer definesthe circumference of Rome within a line of twelve milesand three hundred and forty-five paces ; and that circum­ference, except in the Vatican, has invariably been thesame from the triumph of Aurelian to the peaceful, butobscure reign of the modern: popes.*1 But in the day ofher greatness, the space within her walls was crowdedwith habitations and inhabitants; and the populous sub-curbs, that stretched along the public roads, were dartedlike so many rays from one common centre. Adversityswept away these extraneous ornaments, and left nakedand desolate a considerable part even of the seven hills.Yet Rome, in its present state, could send into the fieldabove thirty thousand males, of a military age; ■ andnotwithstanding the want of discipline and exercise, thefar greater part, inured to the hardships of poverty,might be capable of bearing arms for the defence oftheir country and religion. The; prudence of Belisariusdid not neglect this important resource. His soldierswere relieved by the zeal and diligence of the people, whowatched while they slept, and laboured while they reposed;he accepted the voluntary service of the bravest and mostindigent of the Roman youth; and the companies oftownsmen sometimes represented, in a vacant post, thepresence of the troops which had been drawn' away to "M. d'Anville has given, in the Memoirs of the Academy for the year 1756, (tom,30. p. 198—236.) a plan of Home on a smaller scale, bat far more, accurate than thatwhich he had delineated in 1738 for Rollin's history. Experience had improved his'knowledge; and, instead of Rossi's topograpby, he used the new and excellent mapof Nolli. Pliny's old measure of thirteen must he reduced to eighteen miles. It iseasier to alter a text, than to remove hills or buildings. 1 In the year 1709, Lahat (Voyages en Italie, tom. 3. p. 218.) reckoned one hun­dred and thirty-eight thousand five hundred and sixty-eight Christian souls, besideseight or ten thousand Jews—without souls? In the year 1703, the numbers exceededone hundred and sixty thousand.