OCR Output $4 AtfTIQUITlES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIf. the temple, and to kill such as run away from the footmenwhen they thought themselves out of danger, which horsemenslew three thousand men, while the rest went to the neighbour­ing mountains. Then did Archelaus order proclamation to bemade to them all, that they should retire to their own homes ;so they went away, and left the festival out of fear of some­what worse which would follow, although they had been sobold by reason of their want of instruction. So Archelaus wentdown to the sea with his mother, and took with him Nicolausand Ptolemy, and many others of his friends, and left Philip hisbrother as governor of all things belonging both to his own fa­mily, and to the public. There went out also with him Saldme,Herod's sister, who took with her her children, and many of herkindred were with her ; which kindred of hers went, as theypretended, to assist Archelaus in gaining the kingdom, but inreality to oppose him, and chiefly to make loud complaints ofwhat he had done in the temple. But Sabinus, Caesar's stewardfor Syrian affairs, as he was making haste into Judea, to pre­serve Herod's efle&s, met with Archelaus at Caesarea ; but Va-rus ("president of Syria) came at that time, and restrained himfrom meddling witji them, for he was there as sent for by Av-chelaus, by the means of Ptolemy. And Sabinus, out of re­gard to Varus, did neither seize upon any of the castles thatwere among the Jews, nor did he seal up the treasures in them,but permitted Archelaus to have them, until Caesar should de­clare his resolution about them ; so that, upon this his promise,he tarried still at Caesarea. But after Archelaus was sailed forRome, and Varus was removed to Antioch, Sabinus went toJerusalem, and seized on the king's palace. He also sent for thekeepers of the garrisons, and for all those that had the chargeof Herod's effects, and declared publicly, that he should requirethem to give an account of what they had; and he disposed ofthe castles jn the manner he pleased ; but those who kept themdid not neglect what Archelaus had given them in command,but continued to keep all things in the manner they had beenenjoined them ; and their pretence was, that they kept them allfor Caesar. ,, 4. At the same time also did Antipas, another of Herod's sons,sail to Rome, in order to gain the government; being buoyedup by Salome with promises, that he should take that govern­ment ; and that he was a much honester and fitter man than Ar­chelaus for that authority ; since Herod had, in his former tesrtament, deemed him the worthiest to be made king, which oughtto be esteemed more valid than his latter testament. Antipasalso brought with him his mother, and Ptolemy the brother' of Nicolaus.