OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 487 that the main parts at least of this testimony itself were inhis copy. (1.) When Origen introduces Josephus's testimony concern­ing James the Just, that he thought the miseries of the Jewswere an instance of the divine vengeance on that nation forputting James to death instead of Jesus, he uses an expres­sion no way necessary to his purpose, nor occasioned by anywords of Josephus there, that they had slain that Christwhich was foretold in the prophecies. Whence could thisexpression come here into Origen's mind, when he was quo­ting a testimony of Josephus's concerning the brother ofChrist, but from his remembrance of a clause in the testi­mony of the same Josephus concerning Christ himself, thatthe prophets had foretold his death and resurrection, and tenthousand other wonderful things concerning him ? (2.) How came Origen to be so surprised at Josephus'sascribing the destruction of Jerusalem to the Jews murderingJames the Just, and not to their murdering of Jesus, as wehave seen he was, if he had not known that Josephus hadspoken of Jesus and his death before, and that he had a verygood opinion of Jesus, which yet he could learn no way soauthentically as from this testimony ? Nor do the words hehere uses, that Josephus was not remote from the truth, per­haps allude to any thing else but to this very testimony be­fore us. (3.) How came the same Origen, upon another slight occa­sion, when he had just set down that testimony of Josephusconcerning James the Just, the brother of Jesus who wascalled Christ, to say, that it may be questioned whether theJews thought Jesus to be a man, or whether they did not sup­pose him to be a being of a diviner kind ? This looks so verylike to the fifth and sixth clauses of this testimony in Jose­phus, that Jesus was a wise man, if it be latvful to call hima man, that it is highly probable Origen thereby alluded tothem: and this is the more to be depended on, because allthe unbelieving Jews, and all the rest of the Nazarene Jews,esteemed Jesus with one consent as a mere man, the son ofJoseph and Mary; and it is not, I think, possible to produco