OCR Output 222 DECLINE AND FALI, [CHAP. XLlf eight years;1 and the Justick of Nushirvan is cele­brated as the theme of immortal praise by the nations ofthe east. Reiga of But the justice of kings is understood by themselves,orUchos-an' and even by their subjects, with an ample indulgence forA.e a 531 tne gratification of passion and interest. The virtue of5?9- Chosroes was that of a conqueror, who, in the measuresof peace and war, is excited by ambition and restrained byprudence; who confounds the greatness with the hap­piness of a nation, and calmly devotes the lives of thou­sands to the fame, or even the amusement, of a singleman. In his domestic administration, the just Nushir-van would merit, in our feelings, the appellation of a ty­rant. His two elder brothers had been deprived of theirfair expectations of the diadem: their future life, be­tween the supreme rank and the condition of subjects,was anxious to themselves and formidable to their mas­ter; fear as well as revenge might tempt them to rebel;the slightest evidence of a conspiracy satisfied the authorof their wrongs; and the repose of Chosroes was securedby the death of these unhappy princes, with their fami­lies and adherents. One guiltless youth was saved anddismissed by the compassion of a veteran general; andthis act of humanity, which was revealed by his son,overbalanced the merit of reducing twelve nations tothe obedience of Persia. The zeal and prudence ofMebodes had fixed the diadem on the head of Chosroeshimself; but he delayed to attend the royal summons,till he had performed the duties of a military review: hewas instantly commanded to repair to the iron tripod,which stood before the gate of the palace," where it was • From Procopius and Agathias, Pagi (tom. ?. p. 543. 626.) has proved that Chos­roes Nushirvan ascended the throne in the fifth year of Justinian. (A. D. 531. Aprilf. AiD. 532. April 1.) But the true chronology, which harmonizes with the Greeksand Orientals, is ascertained by John Malala. (tom. 2. 211.) Cahades, or Kohad,after a reign of forty-three years and two months, sickened the 8th, and died the13th of September, A, D. 531, aged eighty-two years. According to the annals ofEutychius, Nushirvan reigned forty-seven years and six moDths; and his death mustpousequently be placed in March, A. D. 579. • Procopius, Persic. lib, 1. c, 23. Brissott de Regn. Pers. p. 491. The gate of