OCR Output 824 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. terror, the old Gaius Marius, his two chief wishes. Hehad taken vengeance on the whole pack of nobles that hadembittered his victories and envenomed his defeats; he hadbeen enabled to retaliate for every sarcasm by a stroke ofthe dagger. Moreover, he entered on the new year oncemore as consul; the vision of a seventh consulate, whichthe oracle had promised him, and which he had sought forthirteen years to grasp, had now been realized. The godshad granted to him what he wished; but now too, as in theold legendary period, they practised the fatal irony of de­stroying man by accomplishing his wishes. In his earlyconsulates the pride, in his sixth the laughing-stock, of hisfellow-citizens, he was now in his seventh loaded with theexecration of all parties, with the hatred of the wholenation; he, the originally upright, able, gallant man, wasbranded as the crack-brained chief of a reckless band ofrobbers. He himself seemed to feel it. His days werepassed as in delirium, and by night his couch denied himrest, so that he grasped the wine cup in order merely todrown thought. A burning fever seized him; after beingstretched for seven days on a sick bed, in the wild fanciesof which he was fighting on the fields of Asia Minor thebattles whose laurels were destined for Sulla, he expired onDeath [86. the 13th Jan. 668. He died, more than seventy years old,of Marins. in full possession of what he called power and honour,and in his bed; but Nemesis assumes various shapes, anddoes not always expiate blood with blood. Was there nosort of retaliation in the fact, that Rome and Italy nowbreathed more freely on the news of the death of the famousdeliverer of the people than at the tidings of the battle onthe Raudine plain? Even after his death individual incidents no doubt occurred,which recalled that time of terror; Gaius Fimbria, for in­stance, who more than any other during the Marian butcherieshad dipped his hand in blood, made an attempt at the veryfuneral of Marius to kill the universally revered pontifex mari-95. mus Quintus Scaevola (consul in 659) who had been sparedeven by Marius, and then, when the pontifex recoveredfrom the wound he had received, indicted him criminallyon account of the offence, as Fimbria jestingly expressed it.of having not been willing to let himself be murdered. Butthe orgies of murder at any rate were over. Sertorius calledtogether the Marian baudits, under pretext of giving them