OCR Output O'JS scAndila.- SCARPHE.- Longobardi, originally cum from Scandinavia. Itdeserves to be noticed that the southern put of thesupposed island of Scandia, the modern Sw4th*\ stillbears the name Scania, Scone, or Schonen. Pliny(viii. 16) mentions a peculiar animal called achlis,um) KMmbliog the alcis, which wai found only inScandinavia. For further discussions about the va­rious tribes of Scandinavia, which all the ancientstreat as a part of Gcrmania Magna, seo Wilhelm,Gcrnianwn, p. 343, &c; Zeuss, h'te Iteutechen, (fe.pp. 77, 156, Ac. [L. S.] SCA'NIHLA, a small Island in the northern partof the Aegaean sea, between I'eparethus and Seyros,now Skandole. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7.§8.) SCANDINAVIA. [Scamma.] SCAPTE HYLE (Shottt^ v\rj, PhiL dm. 4,de ExUiOy p. 60">; Marecllin. Vit. Tfatcyd. § 19).or the " loss wood," situated on the confines of Mace­donia and Thrace, in the auriferous district of Mt.Parjgaeum, to which Thucydides was exiled, andwhere he oooipoaed his great legacy for all ages —the history of the war hi which he had served asgeneral. [E. B. J.] SCA'PTIA (Eth. ^KairTTjvioi, Scaptiensis: Pa*-aerano), an ancient city of Latium, which ap|>earsto have ceased to exist at a very early period. Itsname is found in Dionysius among the thirty citiesof the Latin League (I)ionys. v. 61); and it therefore.seems probable that it was at that time a considerable,or at all events an independent, town. No mentionof it is subsequently found in history, but after thegreat Latin War it was included in one of the newRomaB tribes created on that occasion (b. c. 332),to which it pave the name of Scaptian. (Feet. s. v.Scaptia, p. 343; Liv. viii. 17.) No subsequentmention is found of the town, and it is only noticedby Pliny among the "clara oppida" of Latium,which in his time had utterly disappeared (Plin. iii5-s. 9). Silius Italian also allndei to the " Scaptiapubes," but in a passage from which no inferencecan be derived (viii. 395). The Scaptienses no­ticed by Suetonius {Aug, 40) and elsewhere werethe members of the Scaptian tribe. There isno real clue to its position; that derived fromthe passage of Festus, from which it has been com­monly inferred that it was in the neighbourhood ofPedum, being of no value. The words "quant Pe-dani incolebant," found in all the ordinary editionsof that author, are in fact merely a supplement ofUnions, founded on an inference from Livy (viii.14, 17), which is by no means conclusive. (SeeMuller's note.) Hut supposing that we are justifiedin placing Scaptia in this neighbourhood, the sitesuggested by Nibby, on the hill now occupied by afarm or canale called Passerano, is at least probableenough; the position is a strong one, on the pointof one of those narrow ridges with precipitous sidesbetween two ravines, which abound in this part ofthe Campayna. It is about 3 miles NW. of GaUi-cano, the presumed sito of Pedum; and the exist­ence of an ancient town on the spot is attested bythe fragments of ancient walls, the large, roughly-hewn masses of which are found worked up intomore recent buildings. Its situation closely resem­bles that of OolUamO itself, as w**ll as that ofZfifjarolo, about 3 miles further S. (where there arealso indications of ancient habitation); and the iden­tification of any of the three can be little more thanconjectural. (Nibbv, &uUornit vol. iii. pp. 70,71.) [E. H. B.J SCARABATSTTIA (Sra^orria, Ptol it M5), a town on the western bank of Lake Pes* aUpper Pannonia, on the road leading from Cannesato Saharia. (Plin. iii. 27; iet pp. #3 ttl.262, 266; Tab. Peut.) According to east miinscriptions found at the place, it was i monx.piawith the surname of Flavia Augusta. H«»« ap­pears that the reading in Pliny. *'Searabaata JiiaJ*is not correct, and that we must read wtberSaivbantia Flavia. or Scarabantia et Julia. Its a* anow occupied by the town of Otdewbvrg, « Be>garian Sopronv or Sopron, (Cump. Muchir. Aavhtm, i. p. 16S; Schiinwisner, Amtiqwtota Sda*rww, p. 31; Orelli, Itucript. n. 4992.) [US.] SCA'RBIA, a town in Rhaetia, betwwo Fa*tenum and Veldidena, on the nad hading IAugusta Vindelicoram into Italy, occonai 1site of the modern Schamitz. (ToWa /rafM.) 1 SCAIiDO'N'A (2<apoWo, Pt 1. ii. 17. | J;"cop. B. G. i. 7. 16, iv. 23; Plin. Hi. 26;"Rav. t. 14 ; SfcdpoW, Strab. vii. p. 315;!Pent. 7n6.),a town in the territory of the I ~the Titi us, 12 M. P. from where that rim nsea. From t he circumstance of its having bthe three "conventus" of Dalmatia, it nm±lfea place of importance, and was used from«errjtias a depot for the goods which were trtnajaby the Titius to the inland Dalmatians, - r. i-')The modern Scardona in Illyric Sou-dim ar£retains the name of the old city, though il4occupy the site, which was probably farther IW. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia, toL l p. 191.)lemy (ii. 17. § 13) has an island of the saw:otTthe Liburnian coast,— perhaps the rocky Iriouslv-shaped island of Pago. [E. F SCARDUS, SCODRUS, SCORDCSSwdpSof hpos, Polyb. xxviii. 8; PtoL u. li.^the desolate heights which are menudentally by Livy (xliii. 20, xJiv. 31) as hissjthe way from Stymbara to Scodra, and asrise to the Oriuns. They seem to bar* <bended the great summits on either a*JtDrilo, where its course is from E. to W. CLaaMNorthern Greece ToL iii. p. 477 ) la Imap (EwopaUcKen Tnrkef) Scardos (Sextends from the Ljubatrin to Shaieatk; Ithere is a "col" from KalhnntUle to Cless than 5000 feet above the level of the aacording to the nomenclature of Grisebach.Sreaches from the Ljubairxn at its NE. extrathe SW. and S. as far as the Kltsvtmra of 1of that point Pindus commence* in a <of the same axis. [E-8L.J SCARNIUNGA, a river of Pannonia,:only by Jornandcs (de Reb. GcL 52). wlimpossible to identify from the Tagua ■which it is spoken of. SCARPHE {^Kdp<p7j). in Boeotia. [Etsm SCARPHE or SCARPHEIA (Sanaaaw, 12«ap^e(o, Slrab., Paus^ Steph. B.: Etk. T^Kafxpaitvs). a town of the Locri Easoaaaitinned by Homer. (//. ii. 532.) AceStrabo it was 10 stadia from the sea.from Thronium, and a little lessplace of which Uie nam* is losi,(Strab. ix. p. 426.) It appearathat it lay on the direct road fraaThermopylae by Thronium (*iii.likewise from Livy, who states that Q«tuinuius. marched from ElaUia hj The