OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 493 the last of the Saracens, or Franks, could proudly chap.exhibit the medals of gold and silver which they had extorted from the feeble sovereign of Constan -tinople. The subjects of the last caliphs * had undoubtedly characterdegenerated from the zeal and faith of the companions ™^!Wof the prophet. Yet their martial creed still repre- as­sented the deity as the author of war: the vitalthough latent spark of fanaticism still glowed in theheart of their religion, and among the Saracens whodwelt on the Christian borders it was frequently re­kindled to a lively and active flame. Their regularforce was formed of the valiant slaves who had beeneducated to guard the person and accompany thestandard of their lord; but the Mussulman people ofSyria and Cilicia, of Africa and Spain, was awakenedby the trumpet which proclaimed a holy war againstthe infidels. The rich were ambitious of death orvictory in the cause of God; the poor were alluredby the hopes of plunder; and the old, the infirm,and the women, assumed their share of meritoriousservice by sending their substitutes, with arms andhorses, into the field. These offensive and defensivearms were similar in strength and temper to those ofthe Romans, whom they far excelled in the manage­ment of the horse and the bow; the massy silver oftheir belts, their bridles, and their swords, displayedthe magnificence of a prosperous nation, and, exceptsome black archers of the South, the Arabs disdainedthe naked bravery of their ancestors. Instead ofwaggons, they were attended by a long train ofcamels, mules, and asses; the multitude of these ani­mals, whom they bedecked with flags and streamers, * The eighteenth chapter of the tactics of the different nations is the most hi -Btorical and useful of the whole collection of Leo. The manners and arms of theSaracens (Tactic, p. 809—817- and a fragment from the Medicean MS. in thepreface of the sixth volume of Mcursius) the Roman emperor was too frequentlycalled upon to study.