OCR Output THEHISTORY BOOK with extraordinary fiicccfs; for on the road, through. -*-_f which he knew they were to come, he attackedY.R. a8?. them, while they were heavy kden with booty, whichB.C.463. fo embarrafied their motions, as to render themunfit for action, and took fevere revenge for thedevaluations which they had committed. His planfucceeded fo effectually, that few made their efcape,and the whole of the booty was recovered. On thisthe conful Quintius returned to the city, and put anend to the ceflation of bufinefs, when it had conti­nued four days. The general furvey was then held,and the luftrum was clofed by Quintius *: the num­ber of citizens rated in the furvey, was one hundredand twenty.four thoufand, two hundred and fourteen,befides the orphans of both lexes. Nothing memo­rable pafled afterwards in the country of the ^Equans:they took fhcker in their towns, abandoning theireffects to fire and devaftation. The conful, afterhaving repeatedly carried hoftilities and depreda­tions through every part of the enemy's country,returned to Rome, with great glory, and abundanceof fpoil. Y.R. 190. IV. THE next confuls were Aulus PoftumiusB.C.46*. Albus and Spurius Furius Fufus. The Furii, fomewriters have called Fufii: this I mention as a cau­tion, left any fhould think there was a difference inthe perfons, when it is only in the names. Therewas no doubt entertained, but that one of the confuls•would march an army againft the Jliquans; thefe * The luftrum was a period of five yean, at the expiration ofwhich a general review of the people was held, and their number, ftateand cireuinftances enquired into. The fenate alfo was reviewed byone of the cenfors: and if any one, by his behaviour, had renderedhimfelf unworthy of a place in that body, or had funk his fortune be­low the requifite qualification, his name was pafted over by the cenfor,in reading the roll of fenators; and, thus, he was held to be excludedfrom the fenate. When the bufinefs was done, the cenfor, to whofelot it fell, an'iidit luflrua, clofed the lultrum, by offering a Jblemn fa-crifice in the Campus Martius. c therefore