OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 23 the senate should, previous to the taking of the suf­frages, declare their approbation of all laws whichshould be passed in the assemblies of the centuries ;the third, that one of the censors should, necessarily,be elected out of the commons, as it had been alreadyestablished that both the consuls might be plebeians.In the judgment of the patricians, the detriment sus­tained that year, at home, from the behavior of theconsuls and dictator, was more than a counterbalanceto the increase of empire through their conduct andsuccesses in war. 13. At the commencement of the nextyear, [A.U.C.417. B.C. 335] in which Lucius Furius Camillus andCaius Maenius were consuls, the senate, in order torender more conspicuous the conduct of jEmilius, inrelinquishing the business of the campaign, warmlyurged that men, arms, and every kind of force, shouldbe employed to take Pedum, and demolish it. Thenew consuls were of course obliged to postpone everyother business, and to set out thither. In Latium thestate of affairs was such that the people could ill en­dure either war or peace ; their strength was notequal to the support of a war, and peace they dis­dained on the humiliating terms of losing their lands.They resolved therefore to steer a middle course ; tokeep within the walls of their towns, so that no pro­vocation should be offered to the Romans which mightserve them as a pretext for hostilities ; and in casethey should hear of siege being laid to any of theirpossessions, then, that every one of the estates shouldbe obliged to bring succor .to the besieged. Pedumhowever received aid from few ; the Tiburtians andPraenestians, whose territories lay nearest, arrivedthere: but the Aricians, Lavinians, and Veliternians,while forming a junction with the Volscians of Anti-um at the river Astura, were unexpectedly attackedby Maenius, and routed. The Tiburtians, who weremuch the strongest body, Camillus fought at Pedum ;and, though he had greater difficulties to surmount,yet the issue was equally successful. Some confusion