OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 107 great victory over them. But there now came in to Anileus aconflux of bad men, who regarded their own lives very little, ifthey might but gain some present ease, insomuch that they, bythus coming to him, compensated the multitude of those thatperished in the fight. Yet were not these men like to those that fell,because they were rash, and unexercised in war ; however, withthese he came upon the villages of the Babylonians, and a mightydevastation of all things was made there by the injuries that An­ileus did them. So the Babylonians, and those that had alreadybeen in the war, fentto Neerda to the Jews there, and demandedAnileus. But, although they did not agree to their demands,(for if they had been willing to deliver him up, it was not intheir power so to do) ; yet did they desire to make peace withthem. To which the other replied, that they also wanted to set­tle conditions of peace with them, and sent men together with theBabylonians, who discoursed with Anileus about them. But theBabylonians, upon taking a view of his situation, and having learn­ed where Anileus and his men lay, fell secretly upon them asthey were drunk, and fallen asleep, and slew all that they caughtof them, without any fear, and killed Anileus himself also. 8. The Babylonians were now freed from Anileus's heavyincursions, which had been a great restraint to the effects of thathatred they bore to the Jews ; for they were almost always atvariance, by reason of the contrariety of their laws ; and whichparty soever grew boldest before the other, they assaulted theother : and at this time in particular it was, that, upon the ruinof Anileus's party, the Babylonians attacked the Jews, whichmade those Jews so vehemently to resent the injuries they re­ceived from the Babylonians, that being neither able to fight them,nor bearing to live with them, they went to Seleucia, the princi­pal city of those parts, which was built by Seleucus Nicator.It was inhabited by many of the Macedonians, but by more ofthe Grecians ; not a few of the Syrians also dwelt there ; andthither did the Jews fly, and lived there five years, without anymisfortunes. But, on the sixth year, a pestilence came upon theseat Babylon, which occasioned new removals of men's habitation?out of that city ; and because they came to Seleucia, it happenedthat a still heavier calamity came upon them on that account,which I am going to relate immediately. 9. Now the way of living of the people of Seleucia, whichwere Greeks and Syrians, was commonly quarrelsome, and fullof discords, though the Greeks wefe too hard for the Syrians.When, therefore, the Jews were come thither, and dwelt amongthem, there arose a sedition, and the Syrians were too hard forthe other, by the assistance of the Jews, who are men that despise O 2 dangers,