OCR Output 1070 SYRIA. SYRIA. the fanner passage, we have the Aramitcs of Betli-Kehob, and the Aratnites of Soba, and the king ofMaacah, — in the Utter, Arum Naharaim = Meso­potamia, and Aram Maacah and Zebah; from whichwe may inter the identity of Beth-Rehob and Meso-jmtamia, and the distinction between this latter andMaacah or Zobah: and again, the alliance betweenHadadezer, kin? of Zobah.and the Arainites of Da­mascus (2 Sam. viii. 3 — 6; 1 Chron. xix. 3 — 6)would imply the continuity of the two states; whilethe expedition of the former " to recover his border,"or "establish Ids dominion at the river Euphrates"(ver. 3), during which David attacked him, wouldauppose a inarch from west to east,I hrough Syria,rather than in the opposite direction through Meso­potamia. With regard to the origin of the name Aram,there are two Patriarchs in the early genealogiesfrom whom it has been derived; one the son ofShorn, the progenitor of the Hebrew race, whoseother children Uz, Asshur, Arphaxad, and Lud.represent ancient kingdoms or races contiguous toSyria; while Uz, the firstborn son of Aram, appa­rently pave his name to the native land of Job, at avery early period of the world's history. (Gen. x.2*2, 23.) The other Aram was the grandson ofNahor, the brother of Abraham, by Kemuel, whosebrother Huz is by some suppo-ed to have given hisname to the country of Job, as it can scarcely admitof a doubt that the third brother, Boi, was the pa­triarch from whom the neighbouring district tookits name. {Gat. xxii. 20, 21; Job, i. 1, xxxii. 2.)Hut as we find the name Aram already applied todescribe the country of Bethuel and Laban, the uncleand cousin of the later Aram, it is obvious that thecountry must hare derived its name from the earlier,not from the later patriarch. (Gen. xxv. 20, xxviii.5, &c.) The classical name Syria is commonly supposedto be an abbreviation or modification of Assyria, andto date from the period of the Assyrian subjugationof the ancient Aram; and this account of its originis confirmed by the fact that the name Syria doesnot occur in Homer or Hesiod, who speak of theinhabitants of the country under the name of Arhni,(civ 'Apipott, Horn. //. & 783. Hes. Tkeog. v. 304),in connection with the myth of Typhon. recorded byStrabo in describing the Orontes [OftOXTSS]; andthis writer informs us that the Syrians wjre calledAramaei or Arimi (i. p. 42, xiii. p. G27, xvi. pp.784,7S5), which name was, however, extended too far tothe west or north by other writers,so as to comprehendCilicia, and the Sacae of Scythia. (Sec Bochart,Geo;/. Sac. lib. ii. cap. 6.) Herodotus, the earliestextant writer who distinctly names the Syrians, de­clares the people to be identical with the Assyrians,where he is obviously speaking of the latter, makingthe former to be the Greek, the latter the barbarianname (vii. 63); ami this name he extends as farsouth as the confines of Egypt,—placing Sidon, Azo-tus, Cadytis, and, in short, the Phoenicians in ge­neral, in Syria (ii. 12, 158, 159), calling the Jewsthe Syrians in 1'alcstine (ii. 104): and as far westus Asia Minor, for the Cappadocians, lie says, arecalled Syrians by the Greeks (i. 72), and speaks ofthe Syrians about the Thermodon and Parthenins,rivers of Bithynia (ii. 104). Consistently with thisearly notice, Stralw, at a much later period, statesthat the name of Syri formerly extended from Baby­lonia as far as the gulf of Issus, and thence as faras tbe Euxiue (xvi. p. 737); and in this wider sense the name is used by other classical writer*, saj &aincludes a tract of country on the wot wbkatanot comprehended within the widest ratri d thiancient Aram. II. Natural boundaries and dicifiam. — Tillimits of Syria proper, which is now u> be mare clearly defined by the Mediterranean <•west, the Euphrates on the east, the range d iDDI and Taurus on the north, and therrestliof Arabia on the south. Ou thelong and narrow strip of coaM, commeoriir. itrat bus, and running south to Mooot Cirad,reckoned to Phoenice, and has two desrnwdithat name. In compensation for this deaort*the south-west, a much more ample space Utowards the south-east, by the rapii trending »ithe Euphrates eastward, between the 36th taddegree north lat., from near the 38th to tbt 4l<gree of east longitude, thereby increasing itsfrom the Mediterranean sea, from abuit 100at Zeugma (Wr), to 250 miles at the Uwb&biSyria, south of Cireesium ( Karkisia). Oat the northern extremity of the Issetu SiBB»('of fskanderun), near Issns itself, tbe AsMons (Alma Dagh), a brunch of the Tiruns off first in a northern direction far 18then north-east for 30 more, until it joins tfe»chain (Durdun Oagk\ a little westward of Mtfrom whence it runs due eastward to tbe t:The southern line cannot be accurately d^crfc-aVbeing marked only by an imaginary Ea*through an interminable waste of sand. Tailgular trapezium may now be subdivided. For the purposes of a physical de^-ripta*,ranges of Lebanon and Antilibanus may be«as landmarks towards the south, while Lb*Orontes affords a convenient division in tfctgraphy of the country towards the noTta'fcavalley of the Orontes may be regarded ts *ation northward of the great crevus <fthe watershed being in the vicinity of'that u this degression extends along tbe vWern side of the country, having on each •ide.t!nearly 6 degrees of latitude, an ahnoat ca«chain of mountains, from which nameroastrike into the interior in different(Col. Chcsney, Expedition for the Arwy */^Euphrates atui Tigris, voL i. p. 3$4.) 1. The western range.—Where theraaerrf.nus meets the coast at the Gmffof Iththe river Issus, it leaves only a narrow }■» hits base and the sea, formerly occupied kytmenian, Syrian, or Anmuidan gates of tie'geographers, which will be again referred »This range then advances southward* naiw1names, approaching or receding from theoccasionally throwing out b>>ld beadkaJi iata'sea, as at A'<l.< Khanzter.Ras Botyt (FosananRas-csh-Shaka, Sec The part of the «Aeiof the Orontes is thus described by OoL(p. 384): M The base of Uie chaincfloaMtttfof serpentines and diallape rocks, risiftj ■from plains on each side, and supporting alformation, terminating with bold rupreiconical summits, having at the crest as5387 feet- The sides of this mass artfurrowed by rocky fissures, or broken ia»between which there is a succession of Ishoulders, either protruding thrwijh fnsu 4oaks, and larches, or diversified by themyrtle, oleander, and other shrubs. Saa*