OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 42*. 335 mitted sad ravage. Accordingly they assaulted that post,and carried it by storm. The defendants, who had fled awayin a body towards another eminence, were soon forced tocapitulate, " giving up their auxiliaries, and then giving up" their own arms, to be proceeded with afterward at the" pleasure of the people of Athens." The commanders re­moved them all for safe custody into the isle of Ptychia, tillthey could conveniently be conveyed to Athens, with thisproviso, that" if any one person should be caught in an attempt" to get off, the whole number should forfeit the benefit of" the capitulation." But the leaders of the populace at Corcyra, apprehend­ing that the Athenians, should they be sent to Athens, mightpossibly save their lives, contrive the following machination.—They tamper successfully with some of those who were con­fined in the isle, by the means of some trusty agents whomthey sent privately amongst them, and instructed that " with" great professions of regard for them, they should insinuate" no other resource was left for them but to make their escape" with all possible expedition, and that themselves would un-" dertake to provide them with a bark, for it was the certain" resolution of the Athenian commanders to give them up to" the fury of the Corcyrean populace."—When they hadgiven ear to these suggestions, and were on board the barkthus treacherously provided for them, and so were appre­hended in the very act of departure, the articles of capitula­tion came at once to an end, and they were all given up tothe Corcyreans. Not that the Athenian commanders did nothighly contribute to the success of this treachery ; since, inorder to make it go down more easily, and to lessen the fearsof the agents in the plot, they had publicly declared that" the" conveyance of those persons to Athens by any other hands" would highly chagrin them, because then, whilst they were" attending their duty in Sicily, others would run away with" all the honour." The Corcyreans had them no sooner intheir power, than they shut them up in a spacious edifice.—