OCR Output 3.56 MILETUS. MILVAS. as that in which it had stood to Croesus, andwas thereby saved from the calamities inflictedupon other Ionian cities. (Herod, i. 141, &c.) Intbe reign of Pari us, the Ionian* allowed themselvesto be prevailed upon by Histiaeua and his un­scrupulous kinsman and successor openly to revoltagainst Persia, B. c. 500. Miletus having, in theperson of its tyrant, headed the expedition, had topay a severe penalty for its rashness. After re­peated defeats in the field, the city was besieged byland and by sea, and finally taken by storm B. c.494. The city was plundered and its inhabitantsmassacred, and the survivors were transplanted, byorder of Darius, to a place called Ampe, near themouth of tbe Tigris. The town itself was given upto the Carians. (Herod, vi. 6, &c. ; Strab. xiv.p. 035.) The battle of Mycale, in b. c. 479, restoredthe freedom of Miletus, which soon after joinedthe Athenian confederacy. But the days of itsgreatness and glory were gone (Thuc. i. 15, 115,&c.) ; its ancient spirit <;f liberty, however, was not,yet extinct, for, towards the end of the PeloponnesianWar, Miletus threw off the yoke imposed upon herby Athens. In a battle fought under the verywalls uf their city, the Milesians defeated their op­ponents, and Phrynichus, tbe Athenian admiral,abandoned the enterprise. (Thuc. viii. 25, tec.)Not long after this, the Milesians demolished a fortwhich tbe Persian Tissaphernes was erecting intheir territory, for tbe purpose of bringing them tosubjection. (Thuc viii. 85.) In B. c. 334, whenAlexander, on his Eastern expedition, appeared be-f >ro Miletus, the inhabitants, encouraged by the pre­sence of a Persian army and fleet stationed at Mycale,refused to submit to him. Upon this, Alexander im­mediately commenced a vigorous attack upon thewalls, and finally took the city by assault A part of itwas destroyed on that occasion ; but Alexander par­doned the surviving inhabitants, and granted themtheir liberty. (Annan, Anab. i. 18, &c; Strab. /. c.)After this time Miletus continued, indeed, to flourishas a commercial place, but was only a second-ratetown. In the war between the Romans and Anti-"I n». Miletus sided with the former. (l.iv. xxxvii.16. xliii. 6.) The city continued to enjoy some de­gree of prosperity at the time when Strata wrote,and even as late as the time of Pliny and Pansanias.(Camp. Tac. Ann. iv. 63, 55.) From the Acts(xx 17), it appears that St. Paul stayed a few daysthere, on his return from Macedonia and Troaa. Inthe Christian times, Kpbesus was the we of a bi­shop, who occupied the first rank among the bishopsof Caria; and in this condition the town remainedfor several centuries (Hicrocl. p. 687; Mich. Due.p. 14), until it was destroyed by tbe Turks andother barbarians. Miletui, in its best days, consisted of an innerand an outer city, each of which had its own fortifi­cations (Arrian L c), while its hurbours were pro­tected by the group of the Tragusaean islands in frontof whieh Lade was the largest. Great and beau­tiful as the city may have been, we have now nomeant of forming any idea of its topography, sinceits site and ita whole territory have been changedby the deposits of the Maeander into a pestilentialswamp, covering the remains of the ancient citywith water and mud. Chandler, and other tra­vellers not being aware of this change, mistook theruins of Myns for those of Miletus, and describethem as such. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 239.) Great as Miletus was as a commercial city, it is wless great in the history of Greek literature, bringtbe birthplace of the philosophers Thilea, Anax>mander, and Anoximenes, and of the bistunaoaCadmus and Hecataeus. The Milesians, like the rest of the Ionian,were notorious for their voluptuousness and ef­feminacy, though, at one time, they must barsbeen brave and warlike. Their manufactures «fcouches and other furniture were very celebrated,and their woollen cloths and carpets were particularlyesteemed. (Athen. 1. p. 28, xi. p. 428, xii. 540,553, xv. 691; Virg. Gtorg. iii. .106, iv. 335; coma.Kambach, lit Mile to rjusipu coloniu, HaW, 1794s,4°; Schroeder, Comment, dt Jiebut Miitn i mm,pan i. Stralsund, 1817,4°; Soldan, Herum Wit-tiarum Comment. L Darmstadt, 1629, 4°.) [L.S.J 0O1S OF SlILETfS. MILETUS, a town of Mysia, in the territory sfScepsis, on the river Evenus, which was destroyedas early as the time of Pliny (v. 32.). Anothertown of the same name in Pupblagonia, un the roadbetween Amastris and Siuope, is mentioned onlv iathe Peuting. Table. [L. S.J MILETUS (Mi'aittoi), a town of Crete, mrauutedin the Homeric catalogue. (JL ii. 647.) This tows,which no longer existed in the time of Strain, waslooked upon by some writers as the mother-city sfthe Ionian colony of the same name. (Kphonu, as.Strab. xii. p. 573, xiv. p. 634; SchoL ApolL HL*LL 186; Apollod. iii. 1, 2, 3; Plin. iv. 12.) Mr. Pashley (Trap. vol. i. p. 269) explores! thesite of this Homeric city not far from Fpukuyiam*.at which, considerable remains of walls of puligsanlmasonry, both of the acropolis and city are still tebe seen. (Hock, Kreta, vol. i. pp. 15,418.) [E.BJ.1 Mil.1.1 M, a lioinan -colonia" (- M.lru colon*.*Prut. Tab.) in Nuiuidia, which the Antonine Iti­nerary places at 25 M. P. from Ciru. There essbe little doubt that this place, which, from the cir­cumstance of two councils having been held there,was of some importance (Mor«Hi, Africa Ckrutimmm,vol. i. ]>. 228). was the same as Mim.t M (M<j*a»of. Mvocuoy, Ptol. iv. 3. § 28). [E. B. J-] MILICHUS. [Aciiaia, p. 13.K] MILOL1TUM (ft. Ant. p. 322; MehUicam. ft.llierot. p. 602; Mytoliton, Geogr. Kav. it. 6), atown in tbe interior of Thrace, on the rasd fnsaMaximianopolis to Trajanopolia. [A L.J MILO'NiA. [Mabsi.] MILVAS (MiAvo'i) is said to have been the as.cient and original name of the country aftrrssrescalled Lycia (Herod, i. 173) ; but during the penalis? the Persian dominion, it was the nam* give* htthe whole mountainous country in tbe surth mlLycia, the south of Pisidis, and • portion of *s»larsI'iirygia. (Strab. xii. p. 573.) The boundsnsa sfthis country, however, were never properly fiassVssstthe whole of it is sometimes described as s pan dLycia. (Arrian, Anab. i. 25.) After thetmswof the dynasty of tbe Seleucidae in Syria, tst* anas)Mil;.i» was limited to the south-western part s)