OCR Output T* ITALIA ITALIA. •*«. 'n tt-c 43. distinctly uses the phrase of <palti*g/•alf. when be crosses the Alps. (Cic ad/am. xi. 20.)S» a. v. S. th Caesar and Cicero, in his Philippic*, re-peateiiy uc the name of Italy in the wider and moreg'-i^ral sense, thongh the necessity of distinguishingtue province of Cisalpine Ganl, lead* the latter fre-r.ir-rlj to observe the official distinction. (Caes.b. G. t. I, vi. 44, vii. 1; Cic. PhiL iv. 4. t. 12.)Bat. indeed, had not this n*e of the nam* been al­ready common, before it came to be officially adopted,thit circumstance alone would scarcely hare ran-'6rr-\ it so familiar as we find it in the Latin writersof the Angustan age. Virgil, for instance, in cele-bratmg the prai.>es of Italy, never thought of ex-rl iding from that appellation the plains of Cisalpinetrml, or the lakes at the foot of the Alps. Fromthe time, indeed, when the rights of Roman citizenswi» extended t) all the Cisalpine Ganls, no realdistinction any longer subsisted between the differentpart* of Italy; but Cisalpine Gaul still formed aseparate province under I). Brutus in B.C. 43 (Cic. JPhil. iii. 4, 5, ir. 4, v. 9, &c), and it is probable,that the anion of that province with Italy took placein tile fallowing year. Dion Cassius speaks of it, in |It r. 41, as an already established arrangement. (Dion i('as*. xlriii. 12: Savigny, Verm. ScAr. iii. p. 318.) ( rotn the time of Augustas onwards, the name of iIti'.i* continned to be applied in the same sensethron?hoat the period of the ltoman empire, though jwith Mime slight modifications of its frontiers on the iside of the Alps; but daring the last ages of theWestern empire, a singular change took place, by j• lull the name of Italia came to be specially ap-'plied (in official language at least) to the northern \part of what we now call Italy, comprising the fireprovince* of Aemilia, Flaminia, Liguria, Vcnctia.and Istria, togetiier with the Cottian and Rii.ifli.inAlps, and thus exclwting nearly the whole of what!had been included under the name in the days ofCicero. This usage probably arose from the divisionof the whole of Italy for administrative purposes intotwo great districts, the one of which was placedvoder an officer called the " Vicarius Urbis Romae," jwhile the other, or northern portion, was subject to |the " Vicarius luliae." (A'o». big. it 18; Gothofr. ,ad OkL Theod. xi. 1, leg. 6; Niebubr, vol. i. p. 21.)The practice was confirmed for a time by the cir­cumstance that this part of Italy became the neat ofthe lyrfnbard monarchy, which assumed the title ofthe kingilom of Italy (' Regnum Italiae "); but theancient signification still prevailed, and the name ofItaly was applied throughout the middle ages, as itstill is at the present day, within the boundariesestablished by Augustus. The other names n|i]<licd by ancient writers, espe­cially by the Latin and later Greek poets, to theItalian peninsula, may be very briefly disposed of.Irionyrdus tells us that in very remote ages Italywas railed by the Greeks Hesperia, or Ausonia, andby the natives Saturnia. (Dionvs. i. 35.) Of thesethree names, Hksi-khia ('Eo»«pia), or "the Landof the West," was evidently a mere vague apfiellation,,employM in the infancy of geographical discovery,ami which was sometimes limited to Italy, some­times used in a much wider sense as comprising thewhole West of Europe, including Spain. [His- |TAMA.] But tliere is no evidence of its having .hern employed in the more limited sense, at a very Iearly period. The name is not found at all in jHomer or Hesiod; but, according to the Iliac Table, IStcsichorus represented Aeneas as departing Iran | Troy for Baptria, where in all probability Italy ismeant; though it is very uncertain whether the petconducted Aeneas to Loftam. (Schwegler, Him.Geeeh. voL L p. 298.) But even in the days ofStesicborus the appellation was probably one confinedto the ports and logographers. At a later prn.ilwe car* trace it as used by the Alexandrian purtf,from whom in all probability it passed to the Kt-mans, and was adopted, as we know, by hnnins. x\well as by Virgil and the writers of the Augustanage. ( Agatbyllua, ap. Dicmjt. i. 49; Apollon. Kb-«Liii. 311; Ennius. Amu. Fr. p. 12; Virg. Am. i.530. iii. 185, Ac.) The nante of AtsnxiA, on the contrary, was onederived originally from one of the races which inha­bited the Italian peninsula, the Aunuici of theRomans, who were known to the Greeks as the Ao-sones. These Ausonians were a tribe of Opkan orOscan race, and it is probable that the name ofAnsonia was at first applied much as that of Opiciaor Opica was by Thucydides and other writers of thefifth century ft. c But, as applied to the wholepeninsula of Italy, the name is, w> far a> we know,purely poetical; nor can it be traced farther baskthan the Alexandrian writers Lycophron and A|»llo-nius Rhodins, who employed it familiarly (as didthe Latin poets in imitation of them) as a poeticalequivalent for Italy. [Arsosts.] As for the name of Sattrma, though it is foundin a pretended Greek oracle cited by DionyHias(Xaroprfav alar, Dion vs. i. 19), it may well bedoubted whether it was ever an ancient apprllatkeiat all. Its obvious derivation from the name of theIj*tin god Saturnus proves it to have been of nativeItalian, and not of Greek, invention, and probablythis was the only authority that Dionysiua had fursaying it was the native name of Italy. Bat all thetraditions of the Roman mythology connect Satumusso closely with Latium, that it seems almost certainthe name of Satumia (if it was ever more than apmtical fabrication) originally belonged to Latiumonly, and was thence gradually extended by theliotnans to the rest of Italy. Knnius seems to liavoused the phrase of M Saturnia terra " only in refeivmeto Litium; while Virgil applies it to the whole ofItaly. (Knnius.ao. Varr. L. L. v. 42; Virg- Georg.ii. 173.) It is never used in either scum' by 1-stinprose writers, though several authors stale, as Dn»-nysiui does, that it was the ancient name of Italy.(Festus, v. Saturnia, p. 322; Justin, xliii. 1.) II. But'.M>AltlKS AND PllVStCAL GSOOHAIMIT. There are few countries of which the boundon**are more clearly marked out by nature than trss»> ifItaly. It is welt described by one of its modernpoets as the land •' Ch' Apennin parte e 1 mar circonda e I\Alpe;" and this single line nt once enumerates all the prin­cipal physical features that impart to the country itapeculiar physiognomy. Italy consist* of a greatpeninsula, projecting in a SF.. direction into theMediterranean sea, and bounded on the W. by theportions of that sea commonly known as Uie Tyrrhe­nian and Sicilian seas, but comprised by the Romansunder the name of M«rc lnferum, or the Lower hea;on the E. by the Adriatic, or the Upper Sea (MateSuperum), as it was commonly termed by the Ko-niana; while to tlie N. it spreads out into a broadexpanse, funning, as it were, the base or rret bywhich it adheres to the continent of Europe, and