OCR Output *94 THE DECLINE AND FALL The thirdGordian re­mains soleemperor. Innocenceand virtues ofGordian. A. D. *4*>.Administra-i of Misi- their bodies, mangled with a thousand wounds, were left exposed tothe insults or to the pity of the populace In the space of a few months, six princes had been cut off bythe sword. Gordian, who had already received the title of Cæsar,was the only person that occurred to the soldiers as proper to sillthe vacant throne **. They carried him to the camp, and unani­mously saluted him Augustus and emperor. His name* was dear tothe senate and people; his tender age promised a long impunity ofmilitary licence; and the submission of Rome and the provinces tothe choice of the Prætorian guards,. saved the republic, at the ex-pence indeed of its freedom and dignity, from the horrors of a newcivil war in the heart of the capital +s. As the third Gordian was only nineteen years of age at the timeof his death, the history of his life, were it known to us withgreater accuracy than it really is, would contain little more than theaccount of his education, and the conduct of the ministers, who byturns abused or guided the simplicity of his unexperienced youth.Immediately after his accession, he fell into the hands of his mo­ther's eunuchs, that pernicious vermin of the East, who, since thedays of Elagabalus, had infected the Roman palace. By the artfulconspiracy of these wretches, an impenetrable veil was drawn be­tween an innocent prince and his oppressed subjects, the virtuousdisposition of Gordian was deceived* and the honours of the empiresold without his knowledge, though in a very public manner, tothe most worthless of mankind. We are ignorant by what fortu­nate accident the emperor escaped from this ignominious slavery,and devolved his confidence on a minister, whose wise councils hadno object except the glory of his sovereign, and the happiness ofthe people. It should seem that love and learning introduced Misi-theus to the favour of Gordian. The young prince married thedaughter of his master of rhetoric, and promoted his father-in-law