OCR Output 140 LIVY. greatly extend his line, and without delay began theengagement, in order to divert the enemy's attention,by the hurry of the conflict, from Laelius' detachment,who were advancing from among the hills. In thisthey succeeded, for the Spaniards were unconscious oftheir coming, until they heard the tumult of the fightbetween them and their own cavalry on the rear. Thusthere were two different battles; two lines of foot, andtwo bodies of horse, were engaged along the extent ofthe plain, the circumscribed ground not allowing themto be composed of both together. On the side of theSpaniards, as neither the foot could assist the horse,nor the horse the foot, the latter, who had rashly ven­tured into the plain, relying on the support of theircavalry, were cut to pieces; and the cavalry being sur­rounded, could neither withstand the Roman infantryin front (for by this time their own was intirely cutoff), nor the cavalry on their rear; but, having formedin a circle, and defended themselves a long time with­out changing their position, they were all slain to aman. Thus not one of those who were engaged in thevalley, either horse or foot, survived the fight. Thethird company, which had stood on the hill rather toview the engagement securely, than to take any part init, had both room and time to make their escape. Thetwo princes also fled with them during the tumult, andbefore the army was intirely surrounded. 34. The same day the camp of the Spaniards wastaken, together with about three thousand men, be­sides other booty. Of the Romans and their allies,there fell one thousand two hundred; above threethousand were wounded. The victory would havebeen less bloody, if the battle had happened in a moreextensive plain, so as to have allowed the enemy aneasy flight. Indibilis, renouncing his project of pro­ceeding farther in the war, and seeing no better pro­spect of safety in this desperate state of his affairs thanin the honor and clemency of Scipio, which he had al­ready experienced, sent his brother Mandonius to him;who, prostrating himself at his feet, lamented 'the