OCR Output 10.93 TAXA1S. TANAGRA. mi their return defeat*] the Tanagnteans and Bneo-tians. (Time. iii. 91.) Dtcacarchus, who visitedTanagra in the time of Cassander, says that the citystands on a ragged and lofty height, and has a whitechalky appearance. The houses are Adorned withhandsome porticoes and encaustic paintings. Thesurrounding country does not grow much corn, hutproduces the best wine in BoentJa* Dieaemrchosaddathat the inhabitants are wealthy but frugal, being forthe most part landholders, not manufacturers; andhe praises them for their justice, good faith, and hos­pitality. (He Statu Grate, p. 1*2.) In the time ofAugustus, Tanagra and Tbespiae were the two mostprosperous cities in Bucntia. (Strah. ix. p. 403.)Tanagra is called by Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) a freestate; it is mentioned by Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 20);and it continued to flourish in the sixth century.(Hierocl. p. 645.) Its public buildings are describedat some length by Pausanias (ix. 2(). § 3, seq.).The principal temple was that of Dionysus, whichcontained a celebrated statue of Parian marble, byCaJamis, and a remarkable Triton. Near it weretemples of Themis, Aphrodite and Apollo, and two ofHermes, in one of which he was worshipped asCriophorua, ami in the other as Promachus. Nearihe latter was the theatre, and probably at no greatdistance the gymnasium, which contained a pictureof Corinna, who was a native of Tanagra. Therewas also a monument of this poetess in a conspicuouspart of the city. Pausanias remarks as a peculiarityin Tanagra, that all their sacred buildings wereplaced by themselves, apart from the houses of thetown (ix. 22. § 2.) He likewise notices (ix. 22.§ 4) that Tanagra was famous for its breed of fight­ing-cooks, a circumstance which is mentioned byother writers. (Varr. de lie Rust. iii. 9. § 6; Hesych..*>*. r. KeAofe)0v£; Suitlae, j*. v. Tavaypaun oa«/cto-piVifot.) Tanagra possessed a considerable territory;ami Strabo (ix. p. 405) mentions four villages be­longing to it, Kleon or Heleon, Harms, MycaJeanu,and I'harae. (Pherae, Plin iv. 7. s. 12). The ruins of Tanagra are situated at an unin­habited spot, called (Irimadha or (Jrinnila. situated3 miles south of the village of Skundturi The►ita is a large bill nearly circular, rising from thenorth hank of the Asnpus. The upper part of thesite is rocky and abrupt, looking down upon the townbeneath; and it was probably upon this upper heightthat the sacred edifices stood apart from the otherbuildings of the town. The walls of the city wliichembraced a circuit of about two miles, may still betraced, but they are a mere heap of ruins. About100 yards below the height already described are theremains of the theatre, hollowed out of the slope. Onthe terrace be!<>w the theatre to the NK. are thefoundations of a public building, formed of marble ofa very dark colour with a green cast. The groundis thickly strewn in every direction with remains of<*arl lien ware, betokening the existence of a numerousImputation in foriiier times. (Leake. Jivrthwn i .UN OF TAX AO It A. Greece t vol. ii. p. 454, seq.; Horhswirta. ^Attica, p. 14, seq.; coin p. K. 0. MuUeMfotana p. 20.) TA'XAIS (TdWf, Ptol. iii. 5. § 14.t. 9. \\ 1&c), a famous river, which is the coon* 4 owas universally assumed as the boaniarf lcw« JEurope and Asia. (Strab. tu. 310, xl 4W. Hi. 3; SejL p. 30. Ac.) The older fitm 4tiquity tliouglit that it rose front a Wrt sit(IV jrod. iv. 57; Ephor. ap. Anon. Per. P. Em. -rwhich is really the case, its source bang ia latsas]Iran (hero, in the government of TtmU: »ta»taiwriters held that it had its Mmrca eitbfr a 1Caucasus (Strah. xi. 493; Aniraian. xskt).*the Khipaean mountains. (Mela, L 19; 1ji iii. 272; Procop. B. G. iv. 6. *c.) TW asthese hypotheses was most generally letifMe;Ithere was likewise a fourth whkh made it a amof the Ister (Strab. I c). WMU Su*k*.»ssiadduces the>e different opinions, he hthat its source was entirely unknown (is represented as Sawing in so rapid ait never froze. (Mela, i c.\ cf. S'Smat,xxiii. 85.) It flows first in s SE- andSW. direction; and after receiving the H;Svrgis) as a tributary, empties itself intoMaeotis (Sea of Azof) by two months. iv. 100.) These mouths, whieb an? at tatnorthern point of the Pal as MaeotU, Scnhftat the distance of KO stadia from one310), whilst Artcinidorus (a p. Kostalh.14) makes them only 7 stadia distant. Athowever, the Dot* lias 13 mouths. (CUAi. p. 423.) The etjfwoiogy of tlie name >by Plutarch (de Flum 14) and Eostubnbut its true derivation is from ti*!Don or Dun, signifying vater, whichnames of other rivers, ss Ifcumbios,(Forbiger, ffandb. ties Alt. Getqr. p. 3tf.a-The Tanais is frequently alluded U# ay tatpoets. (Hor. OH. iii. 10. 1 ; Yirg. tf.it. SIXEx. Prntt. iv. 10, 55, Ac.) Clarke ffpp. 33!), 448, note) would identify «lkumetz, from the similarity of the ume,thesis also accepted by Lindner (SrytMw*but there ran scarcely be a> doubt that itidentified with the Ikm. [T. TA'NAIS (TaWf, Ptol. iii. 5.§26,ra town of Asiatic Sarmatia. lying on thecrn mouth and between both mouths Uthe same name. It may also be describedat tho northernmost point of the Palmsnot far from the sea. It was a feraruhior,the Mile-dans, enjoying ao extensivebeing the principal market of theboth of Europe and Asia, who hereand skins for the w ine, apparel, and <<bermore civilised nations. (Strab, si. :■. 491)habitants soon reduced a considerable pitneighbouring coasts to subjection, ant waithemselves subdued by the kings of tAt(Id. vii. p. 310. xi. p. 495). An attentattheir independence only ended in thetheir city by Polemon I. (Id. p.493),sSuhtime when Siraho wrote. Pliny (ri. 7. a. •)of Tanais as no lunger existing in his tin;appears to have be*n subsequently//. cc; Steph. B. p. 633X though itits firmer prosperity. Clarke (i. p 415)cover no trace of it, nor even a probable arteruins are said to exist near the