OCR Output AN. 26.] 559 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. persons that were the most eminent in thesesorts of exercises were gotten together. Forthere were very great rewards for victoryproposed, not only to those that performedtheir exercises naked; but to those that per­formed as musicians also, and were calledThymelici. And he spared no pains to in­duce all persons, the most famous for suchexercises, to come to this contest for victory.He also proposed no small rewards to thosewho ran for the prizes in chariot races; whenthey were drawn by four, three, or two pairof horses. He also imitated every thing,though ever so costly, or magnificent, in othernations; out of an ambition that he mightgive the most public demonstrations of hisgrandeur. Inscriptions also of the great ac­tions of Caesar, and trophies of those nationswhich he had conquered in his wars, and allmade of the purest gold and silver, encom­passed the theatre. Nor was there any thingthat could be subservient to his design, whe­ther it were precious garments, or preciousstones set in order, which was not also ex­posed to sight in these games. He had alsomade a preparation of wild beasts, in greatabundance; and of such other animals aswere either of uncommon strength, or of sucha sort as were rarely seen. These wereprepared either to fight with one another; orthat men who were condemned to death wereto fight with them. And truly foreignerswere greatly surprised and delighted at thevastness of the expenses here exhibited; andat the great dangers that were here seen.But to natural Jews this was no better thana dissolution of those customs for which theyhad so great a veneration.* It appeared alsono better than an instance of barefaced im­piety, to throw men to wild beasts, for thepurpose of affording delight to the spectators.And it appeared an instance of no less im­piety to change their own laws, for suchforeign exercises. But, above all the rest, thetrophies gave most distaste to the Jews: foras they imagined them to be images, includedwithin the armour that hung round about * These grand plays, and shews, and Thymelici, ormusic meetings; and chariot races, when the chariotswere drawn by four, three, or two pair of horses, &c.instituted by Herod in his theatres, were still, as we seehere, considered by the sober Jews as heathenish sports,and tending to corrupt the manners of the Jewish nation; them, they were greatly displeased; becauseit was not the custom of their country to payhonour to such images. Herod was perfectly acquainted with thedisturbance they were under: and as hethought it unseasonable to use violence, hespake to some of them by way of consolation,and in order to free them from that supersti­tious fear they were under. Yet could nothe satisfy them; but they cried out with oneaccord, out of their great uneasiness at theoffences they thought he had been guilty of,that although they should think of bearing allthe rest, yet would they never bear images ofmen in their city; meaning the trophies: be­cause this was disagreeable to the laws oftheir country. Now when Herod saw thatthey would not easily change their resolution,unless they received satisfaction in this point,he called to him the most eminent men amongthem, and brought them upon the theatre,and shewed them the trophies; and askedwhat sort of things they took these trophiesto be? And when they cried out, that theywere the images of men; he gave order thatthey should be stripped of the outward orna­ments which were about them, and shewedthem the naked pieces of wood: whichpieces of wood, now without any ornaments,became matter of great sport and laughterto them; because they had before alwayshad the ornaments of images themselves inderision. When therefore Herod had thus dissipatedthe vehemency of passion under which themultitude had been; the greatest part of thepeople were disposed to change their con­duct, and not to be displeased at him anylonger. But still some 01 them retained theirdispleasure against him, for his introductionof new customs: and esteemed the violationof the laws of their country as likely to bethe origin of very great mischiefs. So thatthey deemed it an instance of piety rather tohazard themselves, to be put to death, thanto seem as if they took no notice of Herod;who, upon the change he had made in their and to bring them into love with Paganish idolatry, andPaganish conduct of life; to the dissolution of the lawof Moses; and accordingly were severely condemnedby them; as appears here and every where else in Josephus.