OCR Output 22 ESSAY ON THE so far at least I think we ought to grant the indulgence to a writerwho is universally acknowledged to have entertained no very greatoorror of the charge of novelty. Irreverentia, improsper, do indeedsavor of novelty, as the invidentia of Cicero does, but they are con­ceded to Tacitus by all. I have not hesitated to propose-by way ofcorrection, in Hist. II., 21, the strange frequentative retorlant. InAnn. XVI., 21, expectabilis is sufficiently defended by the authorityof Tertullian; and I do not regret having recommended confestinan-lius in Ann. XV., 3, and exaperlae in Hist. V., 13; or having de­fended indictus favor in Hist. III., 44. 18. But as an innovator in the construction cf words he was ex­ceedingly fruitful. He delighted in the unusual, as if itself anornament, even though he gained nothing either in brevity or graceof style ; as if he remembered the precept of Horace, Dixeris egregie, notum si callida verbumReddiderit Junctura novum. l know not what other Latin author would have said ulilis pro nobis,Agr. 12. I refrain from other examples, as they are obvious in everypart of his works. In the use of the historical infinitive also, hediffers from other writers by transferring it to present circumstancesand customs of long standing. I would not have believed it, had notthree instances conspired to prove it, still unchanged by all the per­tinacious industry of editors, who, while they dispose of separate ex­amples, have forgotten the others. These are Germ. 7, audiri;Agr. 34, mere; and Dial. 30, insumere. I am inclined to think afourth ought to be added, Ann. III., 54, Tot a mqjoribus repertaeleges . . . contemptu abolitae securiorem luxum facere, where editorshave fecere; not to mention those places in which I have recalled theusual infinitives from the MSS., Ann. I., 20; II., 2. 38; VI., 18;Hist. IV., 20; to which I ought to add Hist. II., 95, Facem Auguslalessubdere; and III., 17, Quo pudore haud plures quam centum equitesresistere; and V., 10, Pace per Ilaliam parta el eocternae curae redire,where editions have subdidere, and restitere, and rediere. For nopeculiarity of the Latin language might be expected to be morepleasing to Tacitus, none can be imagined better adapted to his style,so that I do not wonder that, in using it, he sometimes dared to gobeyond proper limits. He may have shown audacity, and almostviolence, but it would be a mark of even greater audacity and ex­travagance for us, who were born so many ages after him, in oppo­sition to so many examples, which are defended by the authority ofthe MSS., and which not even the genius of the language convictsof fault, to attempt forcibly to abridge this license, merely from a