OCR Output 192 LIVY. same spot should be accomplished his perdition andthat of the Gauls and Sanitates.' After uttering theseexecrations on himself and the foe, he spurred forwardhis horse where he saw the line of the Gauls thickest,and, rushing on the enemy's weapons, met his death. 29. Thenceforward the battle seemed to be foughtwith a degree of force which could scarcely be deemedhuman. The Romans, on the loss of their general, acircumstance which on other occasions is wont to in­spire terror, stopped their flight, and reassumed spiritto begin the combat afresh. The Gauls, and espe­cially those who encircled the consul's body, as if de­prived of reason, cast their javelins at random withoutexecution ; some became so stupid as not to think ofeither fighting or flying : while on the other side, Li-vius the pontiff, to whom Decius had transferred hislictors, with ord'ers to act as propretor, cried out aloudthat ' the Romans were victorious, being exemptedfrom misfortune by the death of their consul. Thatthe Gauls and Sanmites were now the victims of Mo­ther Earth, and the infernal gods. That Decius wassummoning and dragging to himself the army devotedalong with him ; and that among the enemy all wasfull of dismay, and the vengeance of all the furies.'While the soldiers were busy in restoring the fight,they were joined by Lucius Cornelius Scipio and CaiusMarcius, with some reserved troops from the rear,who had been sent by Quintus Fabius, the consul, tothe support of his colleague. These, on being madeacquainted with the fate of Decius, were powerfullyexcited to brave every danger in the cause of the pub­lic ; but as the Gauls stood in close order, with theirshields formed into a fence before them, little prospectof success appeared from a close fight. The javelinswhich lay scattered between the two lines were, there­fore, by order of the lieutenants-general, gathered upfrom the ground, and thrown against the enemy'sshields ; and as most of them pierced the fence, thelong-pointed ones even into their bodies, their com­pact band was overthrown in such a manner, that a