OCR Output 2-i MARSYABAE. MARSYABAK. of Leuce Come with El-Hanra, proposed by D'An-ville, to the Moilah of Gosselin and Vincent Incumnon with D'Anville and Vincent, be finds thetown of Anagrana (which he writes " la ville desNe'granes") in the modern Xedjrdn, and doubtinglyfixes Marsyabae at Mdreb in Yemen. The Manitaeof Ptolemy he identifies with the Rhamunitao ofStrabo,—suggesting an ingenious correction to Ja-raanitae = the people of Yemen (L' Lrniters. Arable,pp. 58, S9). 6. Jomard, one of the highest autho­rities on Araltian geography, has offered a few valu­able remarks on the expedition of Callus, with aview to determine the line of march. He thinks thename Marsyabae an evident corruption for Mariaba,wljich he assumes to bo ,l that of the Tank," thecapital of the Minaei, now Mdreb. Negranes ex­actly corresponds with Xedjrdn or Xeyrdn, nineday.**'journey N\V. of Mdreb. He fixes Leuce Comeat Moilahi and Xegra or Nora opposite to Coseyr, inthe 2Cth degree of latitude. His argument for de­termining the value of a day's march is ingenious.The whole distance from Mareb to the place indi­cated would be 350 leagues of 25 to a degree. FromMariaba to Negra was 60 days' inarch: Xegrdn,therefore, which was nine days from Mariaba, is &thsof tin' whole march, and Watty Xedjrdn is 52 leaguesN\V. of Afdreb. The distance of the Seven Wells,eleven days from Xegrdn, = ^ths of the march =rl 17leagues from Mariaba: and the same analogy mighthave been applied to Chaalla and the river Malothns,had Strabo indicated the distances of these two sta­tions. The troops, in order to reach the sea, on theirretreat must have traversed the province ofAsyr, a dis­trict between Fetnefl and the//cu^(whosegeocraphyhas been recently restored to us by M. Jomard), andone of the elevated plains which separate the moun­tain chain of Yemen from that of the Htdjaz. "Theroad," he says." is excellent,and a weak body of troojacould defend it against a numerous army." Havingthus disposed of the line followed in the retreat, hebriefly considers the advance: — "The country go­verned by Areta*. and the next mentioned, Ararene,correspond with Thamoud and Xedjd, and the south­ern part of the latter province approaching Xedjrdnhas always been a welt-peopled and cultivated dis­trict, Asca, on the river, and Athrulla, the last-named station before Mariaba, cannot be exactlydetermined, as the distances are not stated; and theline between Xedjrdn and Mdreb is still but littleknown.** (Jomard, ap. Mengin. Huioire de VEgypte,£c., pp. 383 — 389.) 7. Mr. Forster has investi­gated tlip march with his usual diligence, and withthe partial success and failure that must almostnecosarily attach to the investigation of so difficulta subject. To take first the three main points, viz.,Leuce Come, the point of departure; Marsyabae, theextreme limit; and Nera, the point at which theyembarked on their return. He accepts D'Anville sidentification of I/aura as Lcnce Come, thinking thecoincidence of name decisive; Marnyabae he finds infsibbia, the chief city of the province of Sabie, a dis­trict on the northern confines of Yemen. 100 milesS. of Brishe, the frontier and key of Yemen; andNera, in Yembo, the sea-port of Medina, The lineof march on their advance he makes very circuitous,ai Strabo intimates; conducting them first throughthe heart of Xedjd to the province of El-Ahta on thePersian Gulf, arid then airam through the name pro­vince in a SW. direction to Yemen. On their re­treat, ho brings them direct to Xedjrdn, then duewest to the sea, which they coast as far north as | Yembo. To be more particular: he thinks that "adifference in distance in the advance and retreat,commensurate, in some reasonable degree, with therecorded difference of time, i.e. as 3 to 1, mast befound ; that the caravan road from Ilavra by Me­dina and Kasym, into the heart of Xedjd, was theline followed by Gallus (the very route, in fart,traver>ed by Captain Sadlier in 1819: Trantaciimuof Lit. Soc. of Bombay, vol. x. pp. 449—493),and thence by one of the great Xedjd roads iotaYemen, the description of which in burckhardtagrees in many minute particulars with the briefnotices of Strabo. He further finds nearly all tbrtowns named by Pliny as taken by the Kornans, onthis line of march : Mariaba of the Caltngii in Merab,in the NE. extremity of Xedjd, within the provinceof Uagar or Bahrein—in the former of which nameshe finds the Ararena or Agarena of Strabo. Caripeiahe identifies, as Gosselin had done, with Carintatn inXedjd; but he does not attempt to explain howPliny conld call this the extreme limit of the exj*-dition,—"quo lougissime processit." The Tamma-cus of Pliny = the Agdami of Ptolemy = tne well-known town of Tayf. Magusa ( Ptolemy's Magulaba)presents itself in A'orn el-Maghsal, a place situatedabout half-way between Tayf and Xedjrdn, whichlast is with him, as with all preceding writers ex­cept Gosselin, the Anagrana of Strabo, the Xegra ofPliny. "Labecia is the anagram, with the slightestpossible inversion, of Al-BeUhe ;n and this i* calledby the northern Bedouins "the key of IVmew,"—theonly pass, according to Burckbardt, for heavy-ladencamels going from Me Ha to Yemen, " a very fertiledistrict, extremely rich in date-trees." The river atwhich the battle with the Arabs was fought is themodern Sancan, "which, taking its rise in theiledjaz mountains near A'orn el-Maghtai, after asouthern course of somewhat more than 100 miles,is lost in the sands of the Tehamah, to the westwardof the mountains of Atyr." The Asca of Strabo,the Nesca of Pliny, are "obviously identical withSancan, the present name of a town sealed on theSancan river, near its termination in the sand*."Athrulla, next mentioned by Strabo, is again Labecia,i. e. BeUhe ; and this hypothesis "implies a counter­march," of which there is no bint in the author*.Lastly, " if Amnestus may be supposed to have rMrepresentative in Jbn Maan (the Manambis of Pto­lemy), a town about half-way between BeUhe andSabbia, all the cities enumerated by Pliny occur onthe route in question." As to the retreat of the army. From Marsyaba*to Xedjrdn, a distance of from 140 to 160 mile*, w »*accomplished in nine days; thence to the SevenWells, eleven days from Xedjrdn, brings us to Ai-llasba (in Arabic " the Seven "), a place ai-mt 1 SOmiles due west of Xedjrdn, and then to Chaalla,the modern Chaulan (according to Forster as well awD'Anville, the chief town of the province of the samename), and thence to Malotha, situated on a river, tbesame as that crossed on the advance,i.e. the .Ssiinm.The Malotha of Strabo is plainly identified, Lr nsite, with the Tabala of Burckhardt, a town on :*.«■Sancan. at this point, on the caravan mad to HeJj>*z,a short day's march from El~Jfojba. From Mawchato Nera Come, i. e. through the Tehama*, there aretwo routes described by Burckhardt; one aloof t»wcoast, in which only one well i* found brtwerwI)Jidda and l^eyth,—a distance of four day*; aimt !«rrmore eastern, somewhat mountainou.*, yieldiug pentyof water, five days' journey between the same tsr*>