OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 475 like to what we use, declaring that the same name of Christbelongs to him, and writes of his ineffable generation of thoFather after such a manner as cannot be blamed; which thingmay perhaps raise a doubt in some, whether Josephus werethe author of the work, though the phraseology does not atall differ from this man's other works. However, I havefound in some papers, that this discourse was not written byJosephus, but by one Caius a presbyter. God. ccxxxviii.] Herod the tetrarch of Galileo and of Pc-rea, the son of Herod the Great, fell in love, as Josephussays, with the wife of his brother Philip, whose name wasHerodias, who was the grand-daughter of Herod the Great,by his son Aristobulus, whom he had slain. Agrippa wasalso her brother. Now Herod took her away from her hus­band and married her. This is he that slew John the Baptist,that great man, the forerunner [of Christ,] being afraid (asJosephus says) least he should raise a sedition among thepeople; for they all followed the directions of John, on accountof the excellency of his virtue. In his time was the passionof our Saviour. Cod. xxiii.] I have read the Chronicle of Justus of Tiberias.He omits the greatest part of what was most necessary to borelated; but as infected with Jewish prejudices, being alsohimself a Jew by birth, he makes no mention at all of theadvent, or of the acts done, or of the miracles wrought byChrist. The time uncertain. Macarius in Actis sanctorum, torn.v. p. 149, ap. Fabric Joseph, p. 61. — Josephus a priest ofJerusalem, and one that wrote with truth the history of theJewish affairs, bears witness that Christ, the true God, wasincarnate and crucified, and the third day rose again; whosewritings are reposited in the public library. Thus he says :Now there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it belawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderfulworks, a teacher of such men as receive the truth with pleas­ure : he drew over to him both many of the Jews, and manyof the Gentiles also: this was the Christ. And when Pilate,at the suggestion of the principal men among us, had con­