OCR Output 398 ROMAN EMPIRE. share was allotted to a soldier and to his horse; and adouble portion was reserved for the noble coursers ofthe Arabian breed. Conquest After the battle of Yermuk, the Roman armyof Jem- no longer appeared in the field: and'the Saracens salem, .,1' i c. •/. A. D. 637. might securely choose among the tortmed townsof Syria, the first object of their attack. They consultedthe caliph whether they should march to Ceesarea orJerusalem; and the advice of Al i determined the imme­diate siege of the latter. To a profane eye, Jerusalemwas the first or second capital of Palestine; but after Mec­ca and Medina, it was revered and visited by the devoutMoslems, as the temple of the Holy Land, which hadbeen sanctified by the revelation of Moses, of Jesus, andof Mahomet himself. The son of Abu Sophian was sentwith five thousand Arabs to try the first experiment ofsurprise or treaty ; but on the eleventh day, the town wasinvested by the whole force of Abu Obeidah. He ad­dressed the customary summons to the chief comman­ders and people of JElia? Health and happiness toevery one that follows the right way! We require of youto testify that there is but one God, and that Mahomet ishis apostle. If you refuse this, consent to pay tribute,and be under us forthwith. Otherwise I shall bringmen against you who love death better than you do thedrinking of wine or eating hog's jlesh. Nor will I everstir from you, if it please God, till I have destroyed thosethat fight for you, and made slaves of your children. Butthe city was defended on every side by deep valleysand steep ascents; since the invasion of Syria, the wallsand towers had been anxiously restored; the bravest ofthe fugitives of Yermuk had stopped in the nearest placeof refuge; and in the defence of the sepulchre of Christ, k In the name of the city, the profane prevailed over the sacred; Jerusalem wasknown to the devout Christians; (Eusch. de Martyr. Palest, c. 9.) but the legaland popular appellation of /£im (the colony of ,!•'.!: i'- Hadrianus) has passed fromthe Romans to the Arabs. (Reland, Palestin. torn. 1. p. 207. torn. 2. p. 836. D'Her-belot, Bibliothenue Orientale, Codi, p «69. Ilia, p. 420.) The epithet of Al Cadi,the Holy, is used as the proper name of Jerusalern.