OCR Output 300 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. God to grant him that request. So the kinghaving his hand recovered to its naturalstate, rejoiced at it; and invited the prophetto sup with him. But Jadon said, he couldnot endure to come into his house, nor totaste of bread or water in that city.* Forthat was a thing God had forbidden him todo; as also to go back by the same waywhich he came: but he said, he was to re­turn by another way. So the king wonderedat the abstinence of the man; but was him­self in fear, as suspecting a change of hisaffairs for the worse, from what had beensaid to him. CHAP. IX. or jadon's return to bethel at the instigation of a FALSE PROPHET, AND HIS AWFUL END J THE EFFECT OFTHE LVINC PROPHET'S ARGUMENTS ON THE MIND OFJEROBOAM, &C. NOW there was a certain wicked manin that city, who was a false prophet,whom Jeroboam had in great esteem: buthe was deceived by him, and his flatteringwords. This man was then bed-ridden, byreason of the infirmities of old age. How­ever he was informed by his sons concerningthe prophet that was come from Jerusalem,and concerning the signs done by him: andhow when Jeroboam's right hand had beenenfeebled, at the prophet's prayer he had itrevived again. Whereupon he was afraidthat this stranger and prophet should be inbetter esteem with the king than himself,and obtain greater honour from him; and hegave order to his sons to saddle his ass im­mediately, and make all ready, that he mightgo out. Accordingly they made haste to dowhat they were commanded; and he gotupon the ass, and followed after the prophet.And when he had overtaken him, as he was resting himself under a thick and shady oak,he at first saluted him, but presently he com­plained of him, because he had not comeinto his house, and partaken of his hospi­tality. And when the other said, that Godhad forbidden him to taste of any one's pro­vision in that city, he replied, "CertainlyGod had not forbidden that I should set foodbefore thee: for I am a prophet as thou art,and worship God in the same manner thatthou dost: and I am now come, as sent byhim, in order to bring thee into mine house,and make thee my guest." Now Jadon gavecredit to this lying prophet, and returnedback with him. But when they were at din­ner, and were merry together, God appearedto Jadon, and said, that he should sutlerpunishment for transgressing his commands:and he told him what that punishment shouldbe; for he said, that on his return "he shouldmeet with a lion, by which he should be tornto pieces, and be deprived of burial in thesepulchres of his fathers." Which thingscame to pass, as I suppose, according to thewill of God: that so Jeroboam might notgive heed to the words of Jadon, as of onethat had been convicted of lying. However,as Jadon was again going to Jerusalem, alion assaulted him, and pulled him off thebeast he rode on, and slew him: yet did henot at all hurt the ass; but sat by him, andkept him, as also the prophet's body. Thiscontinued till some travellers that saw itcame and told it in the city to the false pro­phet, who sent his sons, and brought the bodyunto the city, and made a funeral for him, atgreat expenses. He also charged his sonsto bury himself with him, and said, "that allwhich he had foretold against that city, andthe altar, and priests, and false prophets,would prove true:f and that if he were bu­ried with him he should receive no injurious * Why this prophet was forbid to eat or drink with thepeople of Bethel, the reason is obvious, because he wasto have no familiarity with idolaters; but why he shouldnot return by the same way that he went, is not so veryevident. There is a passage in Isaiah concerning Sen­nacherib, which helps, as some think, to elucidate thismatter, where God tells him, that he would turn him backby the same way that he came, Isaiah xxxvii. 29, 34, i. e.he should return home without doing any thing. All histhreats and all his great projects should have no effectagainst Jerusalem. And in like manner, when God com­manded the prophet not to return by the same way, itwas at much as if he had said, "See that thou be constant, and steadfast in executing the charge committed to thee;let nothing hinder or divert thee, but take abundant carethat thou do thy business effectually." But this construc­tion is a little too much strained; nor can I see, why wemay not say, that God enjoined his prophet not to returnby the same way, lest Jeroboam, or any other of the in­habitants of Bethel, either to satisfy their curiosity uponan occasion so uncommon, or to do him some mischieffor his severe denunciations against their altar and way otworship, might send men after him to bring him back.Caltnefs and he Clerc't Commentaries. B.t 1 Kings xiii. 32.