OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 535 VII. Since, therefore, Tacitus, soon after the publicationof Josephus's Antiquities, and in contradiction to them wasdetermined to produce such idle stories about the Jews, andsince one of those idle stories is much the same as that pub­lished in Josephus against Apion, from Manetho and Lysi-machus, and nowhere else met with so fully in all antiquity,it is most probable that those Antiquities of Josephus werethe very occasion of Tacitus giving us these stories, as weknow from Josephus himself, contr. Apion, b. i. sect. 1, thatthe same Antiquities were the very occasion of Apion's pub­lication of his equally scandalous stories about them, andwhich Josephus so thoroughly confuted in his two books writtenagainst them. And if Tacitus, as I suppose, had also readthose two books, his procedure in publishing such stories,after he had seen so thorough a confutation of them, wasstill more highly criminal. Nor will Tacitus's fault be muchless, though we suppose he neither saw the Antiquities, northe books against Apion, because it was so very easy for him,then at Rome, to have had more authentic accounts of -theorigin of the Jewish nation, and of the nature of the Jewishand Christian religions, from the Jews and Christians themselves, which, he owns, were very numerous there in his days;so that his publication of such idle stories is still utterly in­excusable. VIII. It is, therefore, very plain, after all, that notwith­standing the encomiums of several of our learned crities uponTacitus, and hard suspicions upon Josephus, that all the (in­voluntary) mistakes of Josephus, in all his large works puttogether, their quality, as well as quantity, considered, donot amount to near so great a sum, as do these gross errorsand misrepresentations of Tacitus about the Jews amount toin a few pages; so little reason have some of our later andlesser crities to prefer the Greek and Roman profane his­torians and writers to the Jewish, and particularly to Jose­phus. Such later and lesser crities should have learnedmore judgment and modesty from their great father JosephScaliger, when, as we have seen, after all his deeper inquiries,