OCR Output An. 60.] 503 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. many considerable actions, and particularlymade war with Alexander; since Hyrcanuswas not yet able to oppose his power; butwas already attempting to rebuild the wall ofJerusalem, which Pompey had overthrown;although the Romans, who were there, re­strained him from that design. However,Alexander went over all the country roundabout, and armed many of the Jews, and sud­denly assembled ten thousand armed footmen,and fifteen hundred horsemen; and fortifiedAlexandrium, a fortress near to Coreae, andMacherus, near the mountains of Arabia.Gabinius therefore came upon him, havingsent Marcus Antonius, with other command­ers, before. These armed such Romans asfollowed them; and, together with them,such Jews as were subject to them: whoseleaders were Pitholaus, and Malichus: theyalso took with them their friends that werewith Antipater, and met Alexander; whileGabinius himself followed with his legion.Hereupon Alexander retired to the neigh­bourhood of Jerusalem; where they came toa pitched battle; in which the Romans slewof their enemies about three thousand; andtook a like number alive. At this time Gabinius came to Alexandrium,and invited those that were in it to deliver itup on certain conditions; promising that theirformer offences should be forgiven. But as agreat number of the enemy had pitched theircamp before the fortress, whom the Romansattacked, Marcus Antonius fought bravely,and slew a great number; and seemed tocome off with the greatest honour. So Gabi-nius left part of his army there, in order totake the place; and he himself went intoother parts of Judea, and gave order to re­build all the cities that he met with that hadbeen demolished. At which time were re­built Samaria, Ashdod, Scythopolis, Anthe-don, Raphia, Dora, Marissa, and Gaza; andnot a few others besides. And as the menacted according to Gabinius's command, itcame to pass, that at this time these cities.were securely inhabited; which had beendesolate for a long time. When Gabinius had done thus in the coun­try, he returned to Alexandrium: and when he urged on the siege of the place, Alexandersent an ambassage to him; desiring that hewould pardon his former offences; he alsodelivered up the fortresses, Hyrcania, andMacherus; and at last Alexandrium itself.These fortresses Gabinius demolished. Butwhen Alexander's mother, who was on theside of the Romans, as having her husbandand other children at Rome, came to him, hegranted her whatsoever she asked. Andwhen he had settled matters with her, hebrought Hyrcanus to Jerusalem, and com­mitted the care of the temple to him. Andwhen he had ordained five councils, he dis­tributed the nation into the same number ofparts. So these councils governed the people:the first was at Jerusalem; the second atGadara; the third at Amathus; the fourth atJericho; and the fifth at Sepphoris, in Gali­lee. So the Jews were now freed from mo­narchical authority; and were governed byan *aristocracy. CHAP. VI. ARISTOBULUS ESCAPES FROM ROME INTO JUDEA, BUT ISDEFEATED AND RETAKEN; GABINIUS OVERCOMES ALEX­ANDER AND THE NABATEANS IN BATTLE. NOW Aristobulus ran away from Rometo Judea, and set about the buildingof Alexandrium; which had been recentlydemolished. Hereupon Gabinius sent sol­diers against him, under the command of Si-senna, Antonius, and Servilius; in order tohinder him from getting possession of thecountry, and to take him again. And indeedmany of the Jews ran to Aristobulus on ac­count of his former glory; as also they shouldbe glad of an innovation. Now there wa3one Pitholaus, a lieutenant at Jerusalem, whodeserted to him, with a thousand men: al­though a great number of those that came tohim were unarmed. And when Aristobulushad resolved to go to Macherus, he dismissedthose people, because they were unarmed;so they could not be useful to him in whatactions he was going about. But he tookwith him eight thousand that were armed,and marched on. And as the Romans fellupon them severely, the Jews fought stoutly; * Dean Prideaux well observes, that " Notwithstandingthe clamour against Gabinius at Rome, Josephus gives hima laudable character; as if he had acquitted himself with honour in the charge committed to him in Judea." At theyear 65. Marg.