OCR Output B.VI1I. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 347 • "strength of theirs, by not supplying them constantly"and fully with their pay. The time, therefore, they*' insisted, ought no longer to be thus idly wasted, but"an engagement hazarded at once." Yet in such cla­mours thole deepest concerned were the Syracusans. The confederates and Astyochus himself being af­fected with these clamours, and having declaimed in acouncil of war for engaging the enemy forthwith, asthey had received undoubted intelligence of the confu­sions at Samos; putting out to sea with the whole oftheir fleet, amounting to a hundred and twelve sail,and having ordered the Milesians to march thither over­land, they stood away for Mycale. At GJaucæ of My­cale the Athenians were now lying, with eighty-twoships of the Samian department: For in this quarter ofMycale Samos lies, but a small distance from the con­tinent: But, when they saw the fleet of the Peiopon-»esians approaching, they retired to Samos, judgingtheir own strength insufficient for an engagement withthe foe which might prove decisive. Besides, as theyhad discovered the intention of those at Miletus to ven­ture An engagement, they expected Strombichides fromthe Hellespont, who was to bring to their assistance theships on the station of Chios which had gone up toAbydus; and a message had already been dispatched,to hasten him up. For these reasons they plied away toSamos. The Peloponnesians, arriving at Mycale, en­camped upon the shore along with the land-forces ofthe Milesians and those sent in 'by the bordering people.On the next day, when they were fully bent on stand­ing directly against Samos, advice is brought them that"Strombichides is come up -with the ships from the** Hellespontupon which they made the best of theirway back again to Miletus. And now the Athenians,having gained so large an accession of strength, shewthemselves immediately before Miletus, with a hun--dred and eight fail, desirous of coming to an engage-*. • . • ...... «' .'i-rhent