OCR Output CHAP. 54. ROMAN HISTORY. «l JEqui and Volsci, your former enemies, should removeto Rome? Would you wish them to become Romans,whilst you were only burghers of Veii? Whetherwould you choose, that Rome should be a desert inyour own possession, or to be inhabited by your ene­mies? Of two alternatives so unaccountable, it is hardto say which is the more criminal. Would you reallyinvolve yourselves in so much guilt, and expose your­selves to such infamy, only to save you the trouble ofrebuilding the city? If in all the «ity, a house larger ormore handsome could not be raised, than the cottagewhich served our Founder for a palace of old, would itnot be more honourable to dwell in huts like shepherdsand herdsmen, amidst your household gods, and thetemples still existing, than to condemn yourselves to apublic and universal banishment? Did our ancestors,who were strangers and shepherd?, so quickly rear upa new city, when there was nothing here but woodsand marshes; and shall we, when the capitol, citadel,and temples of the gods are still standing and safe, shallwe, I say, think it a mighty matter, to rebuild a citythat has been consumed by fire? Is it not surprising,that as a community we should hesitate on doing, whenthe calamity is general, what every individual woulddo, were it his particular case? CHAP. LIV. In Continuation. JjUT in the name of the gods, should a fire, either"by accident or design, happen at Veii, and the wind,as might naturally be supposed, spread the flumes so-asto consume the best part of that city, must we thenshift about from thence to Fidenae, Gabii, or some othertown? Has your native soil no charms to attract yourregard? Has this, our mother country, none at all:Does our love for our country extend only to roofs andrafters? Upon honour, I will frankly acknowledge,though it gives me more pain to call your injusticethan my own misfortune to remembrance, that duringmy exile, as often as I thought of my country, thesehills, those fields, the Tiber, the couutry I was accus-