OCR Output SYBARIS. 105:? STCAMIXA. srnimstances of which we are very imperfectlyh u.n'ed. It appears that the government hadrrrioasly been in the hands of an oligarchy, toi Mich persons a> Smindy rides and Alcimenesranlly belonged; but the democratic )>arty, headedtl t demagogue named Telys, succeeded in over-brewing their power, and drove a considerablermfaer of the leading citizens into exile. Telys*mipoa seems to have raised himself to the positioni "tepot or tyrant of the city. The exiled citizens■«i refuge at Crotona; but not content with theirviory, Telys and his partisans called upon the"rdoniata to surrender the fugitives. This theyrf«aed to do, and the Sybarites hereupon declared'iron them, and marched upon Crotona with anr.sr said to have amounted to 300,000 men. Theyi«t met at the river Traeis by the Crotoniats,itos army did not amount to more than a third off-rr numbers; notwithstanding which they obtained* r |il*t* victory, and put the greater part of thevlantes to the sword, continuing the pursuit toU§ very gates of the city, of which they easily irihde>rrielres masters, and which they determined toetfroy so entirely tbat it should never again be•■•tiled. F<<r this purpose they turned the courser {;»« river Crathis, so that it inundate) the site of• buried the nuns under the deposits that[ brought down. (I)iod. xii. 9, 10; Strab. vi. p.IM; Herod, v. 44; Athenae. xii. p. 521; Scymn.i 337—360.) This catastrophe occurred it: B. c.10, and seems to have been viewed by many ofIsf Greeks as a divine vengeance upon the Sybaritesf iheir pride and arrogance, caused by their exc$s-"v prosjj*rity, more especially for the contempt they*t ithown for the great festival of the Olympic■i •-, which they are said to have attempted toffkat by attracting the principal artists, athletes,^, to their own public games. (Scymn. Ch. 350— i6U;Atben. /. c.) It is certain that Sybaris was never restored. V surviving inhabitants took refuge at Laus andLiirui, on the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea. AntSnript was indeed made, 58 years after the de-nvtum of the city, to establish them anew on thefcmit site, but they were quickly driven out byv Crotoniats, and the fugitives afterwards enm- whh the Athenian colouists in the foundationr Thurii. [T hit an.] At the present day theOr 14 utterly desolate, and even the exact position'the ancient city cannot be determined. Theftali plain watered by the rivers Cosciie and Cratt V ancient Sybaris and C rat his), so renowned inVMit times fur its fertility, is now a desolatetiaipy tract, pestilential from malaria, and fre­tted only by vast herds of buffaloes, the usualri«Tipanimeiit in Southern Italy of all such pesti-«n* regions. The circumstance mentioned byirato that the river Crathis had been turned fromi course to inundate the city, is confirmed by thervlrntal mention in Herodotus of the dry channel the Crathis " (wapit rbv ^rjpov Koa&r, lierod. v.I), and this would sufh'iieutly account for the■appearance of all traces of the city. Swinburneie#d tells oa that some "degraded fragments ofwducts and U»mbs" were still visible on the■miaul* formed by the two rivers, and were pointedS as the niins of Sybaris, but these, as he justlyKrves, bein? built of brick, are probably of Romannes, and have no connection with the ancient city.rpf"*l Craven,on the other hand, speaks of "a walliiietunea visible in the bed of the Crathis when the waters arc very low" as being the only remainingrelic of the ancient Sybaris. (Swinburne's Trarels,vol. i. pp. 290—292;" Craven's Soutfitrn Tour, pp.217, 218.) The ruins marked on Zannoni's largemap as tAnticn Sibari are probably those of Thurii[Tnm] But it is certain that the locality hasnever yet been thoroughly examined, and it is pro­bable that some light may even yet be thrown uponthe site of this celebrated city: especially if themar*hy plain in which it is situated should ever bereclaimed and cultivated. There is no doubt that ifthis were done, it would again be a tract of surpass­ing fertility: it is cited as such by Varro, who tellsns that ''in Sybaritano" wheat was said to producea hundred-fold. (Vmr. H. R. i. 44.) Kven at tliHpresent day the drier spots produce very rich cropsof corn. (Swinburne, L c.) The river Sybaris was said to be so named by theGreek colonists from a fountain of that name atBura in Achaia (Strab. viii. p. 3S6): it had theproperty, according to some authors, of making horn'sshy that drank of its waters, (Pseud. Arist. Mi-rub. 109; Strab. vi. p. 263.) It is a considerablestream, and has its sources in the Apennines nearMur.iif, tlows beneath CastrociUort, and receivesseveral minor tributary streams before it joins theCrathis. [E. H. B.] COIN OF STBARIS. SY'BOTA. [Corcyba, p. 670.] SYBKITA (2vSprra, Scyl. p. 18; 2oteptTr,Ptol. tii. 17. § 10; 2ov€ptTOS, literacies; HSvpros,Polyb. op. Steph. B. $. r.; Eth. 2t€pintos, Biickh,Corp. hutcr. vol. ii. p. 637), a town of Crete, 8 M. P.from Kleulhema (/'rut. 7«6.), and famous for itsnumerous and beautiful silver coins, which, thoughsome of them belong to a very early period, are thefinest specimens of the Cretan mint; the types arealways connected with the worship of Dionysus orHermes. (Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 320.) [K. B." J ] SYCAM1NA (2Lwaptw»r miAij), a city of Pales­tine, placed by Strabo between Acre ("Ami) andCaesareia Palaestinae (Xrpdrwvos -wvpyot),the nameof which alone remained in his time. There were, heBays, many such ; of which he specifies this and Bu-colou (Bovk6\o>v) and Crocodeilon (Kptnco&*l\t*y).(Strab. xvi. p. 758.) It was here that Ptolemy La-thyrus, son of Cleopatra, landed the army of 30,000men whom he had brought from Cyprus to besieroPtolemais, which would impiy that it was not fardistant from Acre (Josephus, lib. xiii. 13. § 3).The Itinerary of Antoninus makes it xxiv. M I1, fromPtolemais, xx. M. P. from Caesareia; the JerusalemItinerary xv. 51.P. fmm Ptolemaic, xvi. from Caesareia.(Wesseling, pp. 149,584.) The last-named authorityplaces it at Mount Carmel, thereby justifying its iden­tification with the modern Kaipha ox Haifa, followedby Keichard, Manitcrt, and Kiepert, rather than withAtlit, suggested by Lapie. Indeed the testimony ofKuscbius would seem to be conclusive on this point,