OCR Output 290 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. danger with which their rule was threatened by the rise ofany general of reputation, and with the fresh remembranceof the Cimbrian war and Marius, dreaded war still more ifpossible than he did himselK He acted accordingly. Hewas not afraid to demean himself in a way which wouldhave given to any energetic government not fettered by sel­fish considerations manifold ground and occasion for de­claring war; but he carefully avoided any open rupturewhich would have placed the senate under the necessity ofdeclaring it. As soon as men appeared to be in earnest hedrew back, before Sulla as well as before Aquillius; hehoped, doubtless, that he would not always be confronted byenergetic generals, that he too would, as well as Jugurtha,fall in with his Scaurus or Albinus. It must be owned thatthis hope was not without reason; although the very exampleof Jugurtha had on the other hand shown how foolish it wasto confound the bribery of a Roman commander and thecorruption of a Roman army with the conquest of the Romanpeople.Aquillius Thus matters stood between peace and war, and lookedbrings about quite as if they would remain long in the same indecisivewar" position. But it was not the intention of Aquillius to allow this; and, as he could not compel his government to declareNicomedes. war against Mithradates, he made use of Nicomedes forthat purpose. The latter, who was under the power of theBoman general and was, moreover, his debtor for the accumu­lated war expenses and for sums promised to the general inperson, could not avoid complying with the suggestion thathe should begin war with Mithradates. The declaration ofwar by Bithynia took place; but, even when the vessels of Nico­medes closed the Bosporus against those of Pontus, and histroops marched into the frontier districts of Pontus and laidwaste the region of Amastris, Mithradates remained still un­shaken in his policy of peace; instead of driving the Bithyniansover the frontier, he lodged a complaint with the Roman en­voys and asked them either to mediate or to allow him theprivilege of self-defence. But he was informed by Aquillius.that he must under all circumstances refrain from waragainst Nicomedes. That indeed was plain. They had em­ployed exactly the same policy against Carthage; theyallowed the victim to be set upon by the Roman hounds andforbade its defending itself against them. Mithradatesreckoned himself lost, just as the Carthaginians had done: