OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL than arms or numbers. Be patient till they have loaded themselves with theincumbrance of wealth. This possession of wealth will divide their counsels, andassure your victory." This subtle policy is perhaps a refinement of the Arabianwriters; and the situation of Charles will suggest a more narrow and selfish mo­tive of procrastination; the secret desire of humbling the pride, and wasting theprovinces, of the rebel duke of Aquitain. It is yet more probable, that the delaysof Charles were inevitable and reluctant.. A standing army was unknown underthe first and second race: more than half the kingdom was now in the hands ofthe Saracens: according to their respective situations, the Franks of Neustria andAustrasia were too conscious or too careless of the impending danger; and the vo­luntary aids of the Gepidsc and Germans were separated by a long interval fromthe standard of the Christian general. No sooner had he collected his forces, thanhe sought and found the enemy in the centre of France, between Tours and Poi­tiers. His well conducted march was covered by a range of hills, and Abderameappears to have been surprised by his unexpected presence. The nations of Asia,Africa, and Europe, advanced with equal ardour, to an encounter which wouldchange the history of the world. In the six first days of desultory combat, thehorsemen and archers of the east maintained their advantage: but in the closeronset of the seventh day the orientals were oppressed by the strength and statureof the Germans, who, with stout hearts and iron hands,(l) asserted the civil andreligious freedom of their posterity. The epithet of Martel, the Hammer, whichhas been added to the name of Charles, is expressive of his weighty and irresisti­ble strokes: the valour of Eudes was excited by resentment and emulation; andtheir companions, in the eye of history, are the true peers and paladins of Frenchchivalry. After a bloody field, in which Abderame was slain, the Saracens, in theclose of the evening, retired to their camp. In the disorder and despair of the night,the various tribes of Yemen and Damascus, of Africa and Spain, were provoked toturn their arms against each other: the remains of their host were suddenly dis­solved, and each emir consulted his safety by a hasty and separate retreat. At thedawn of day, the stillness of a hostile camp was suspected by the victorious Chris­tians: on the report of their spies, they ventured to explore the riches of the va­cant tents; but, if we except some celebrated relics, a small portion of the spoilwas restored to the innocent and lawful owners. The joyful tidings were soon dif­fused over the catholic world, and the monks of Italy could affirm and believe thatthree hundred and fifty, or three hundred and seventy-five thousand of the Ma­hometans had been crushed by the hammer of Charles:(2) while no more thanfifteen hundred Christians were slain in the field of Tours. But this incredible taleis sufficiently disproved by the caution of the French general, who apprehendedthe snares and accidents of a pursuit, and dismissed his German allies to their na­tive forests. The inactivity of a conqueror betrays the loss of strength and blood,and the most cruel execution is inflicted, not in the ranks of battle, but on the backsof a flying enemy. Yet the victory of the Franks was complete and final; Aqui­tain was recovered by the arms of Eudes; the Arabs never resumed the conquestof Gaul, and they were soon driven beyond the Pyrenees by Charles Martel and hisvaliant race. (3) It might have been expected that the saviour of Christendomwould have been canonized, or at least applauded, by the gratitude of the clergy,who are indebted to his sword for their present existence. But in the public dis­tress the mayor of the palace had been compelled to apply the riches, or at leastthe revenues, of the bishops and abbots, to the relief of the state and the rewardof the soldiers. His merits were forgotten, his sacrilege alone was remembered,and, in an epistle to a Carlovingian prince, a Gallic synod presumes to declarethat his ancestor was damned; that on the opening of his tomb, the spectators wereaffrighted by a smell of fire and the aspect of a horrid dragon; and that a saint of (!) Gens Austria membrorum pre-cminentia valida, el gens Germans corde et corpore pracstantissiina, quasiin ictu aeuti maim ferrea et pectore arduo Arabes extinxerunt. (Roderic. Toleian. c. 14.) (2) These numbers are stated by Paul Warnefrid, the deacon of Aquilcia (de Gestis Langobard. lib. vi. p.921. edit. Grot.) and Anastasius, the librarian of the Unman church, (in Vit. Gregorii II.) who tells o. miracu­lous story of three consecrated sponges, which rendered invulnerable the French soldiers among whom theyhad been shared. It should seem, that in his letters to the pope, Eudes usurped the honour of the victory, forwhich he was chastised by the French annalists, who, with equal falsehood, accuses liim of inviting the Sara­cens. (3) Narbovtne, and the rest of Septimania, was recovered by Pepin, the son of Charles Martel, A. D. 755.(nsgl,Critics, torn. iii. p. 300.) Thirty-seven years afterward it was pillaged by a sudden inroad of the Arabs,wlio employed the captives in the construction of the mascri of Cordova. (De Guigncs,Hist. des Hum, torn, i-p. 354.)