OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 211) queror himself conformed, with the temper of a states­man, to the various practice of France and Italy. In hisfour pilgrimages or visits to the Vatican, he embracedthe popes in the communion of friendship and piety;knelt before the tomb, and consequently before theimage of the apostle; and joined, without scruple, in allthe prayers and processions of the Roman liturgy.Would prudence or gratitude allow the pontiffs to re­nounce their benefactor? Had they a right to alienatehis gift of the exarchate? Had they power to abolishhis government of Rome? The title of patrician wasbelow the merit and greatness of Charlemagne; and itwas only by reviving the western empire that they couldpay their obligations or secure their establishment. Bythis decisive measure they would finally eradicate theclaims of the Greeks from the debasement of a provin­cial town: the majesty of Rome would be restored: theLatin Christians would be united under a supreme head,in their ancient metropolis; and the conquerors of thewest would receive their crown from the successors ofSt. Peter. The Roman church would acquire a zealousand respectable advocate; and, under the shadow of theCarlovingian power, the bishop might exercise, withhonour and safety, the government of the city.*Coronation Before the ruin of Paganism in Rome, theof Charie- competition for a wealthy bishopric had often matin'.' as emperor of been productive of tumult and bloodshed. The omo 'mi 11 ii* of the west, people was less numerous, but the times wereA.D. BOO. more savage, the prize more important, and thechair of St. Peter was fiercely disputed by theleading ecclesiastics who aspired to the rank of sovereign.The reign of Hadrian I." surpasses the measure of past 1 Fontanini considers the emperors as no more than the advocates of the church.(advocatus et defcnsor S. R. £. See Ducange, Gloss, l.ai . torn. 1. p. £97.) His an­tagonist Muratori reduces the popes to be no more than the exarchs of the emperor.In the more equitable view of Mosheim, (Institut. Hist. Eccles. p. 264, 265.) theyheld Rome under the empire as the most honourable species of fief or benefice —premantur nocte caliginosa! • His merits and hopes are summed up in an epitaph of thirty.eight verses, ofwhich Charlemagne declares himself the author. (Concil. torn. 8. p. 520.)