OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 17 the gods, to avert destruction from his friends, andtransfer it to the side of their enemies : accordingly,all the terror and dismay went along with him ; at firstdisturbed the battalions of the Latines, and thenspread universally over their whole line. This ap­peared most evidently, in that wherever he was carriedby his horse, there they were seized with a panic, asif struck by some pestilent constellation: but wherehe fell, overwhelmed with darts, manifest consternationtook, possession of the cohorts of the Latines, so thatthey fled from the spot, leaving it void to a consider­able extent. At the same time the Romans, theirminds being delivered from the dread of the gods,exerted themselves with fresh ardor, as if they werethen rushing to the first onset, on receiving the signal.Then even the rorarii pushed forward among the an-tepilani, and added strength to the spearmen andprincipes ; and the veterans, resting on their right knee,waited for the consul's nod to rise up to the fight. 10. Afterwards, in the course of the battle, the La­tines had the advantage in some places, on account oftheir superior numbers. The consul Manlius, whohad heard the circumstances of his colleague's death,and, as was justly due to him, expressed his sentimentsof the glorious manner in which he died, both by tearsand by the praises to which it was intitled, hesitated awhile whether it were yet time for the veterans torise : then, judging it better to reserve them fresh forthe decisive blow, he ordered the accensi to advancefrom the rear, before the standards. On their movingforward, the Latines immediately called their veterans,thinking their adversaries had done the same; andwhen these by fighting furiously for a considerabletime had fatigued themselves, and either broken offthe points of their, spears, or blunted them, yet con­tinuing to drive, back..their opponents, thinking thatthe fate of the battle was nearly decided, and that theyhad come to the last line, then the consul called to theveterans, ' Now arise, fresh as you are, against menwho are fatigued, and think on your country, your LIV. VOL. III. B