OCR Output 234 [book tii. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in his dancing, uncover himself among theservants and the handmaidens. But he re­plied, that he was not ashamed to do whatwas acceptable to God, who had preferredhim before her father, and before all others;that he would play frequently, and dance,without any regard to what the hand­maidens and she herself thought of it. Sothis Michal who was David's wife, had nochildren; however when she was afterwardmarried to him to whom Saul her fatherhad given her, (for at this time David hadtaken her away from him, and had her him­self) she bare five* children. But con­cerning those mattersf I shall discourse ina proper place. Now when the king saw that his affairsgrew better almost every day, by the will ofGod, he thought he should offend him, if, whilehe himself continued in houses made of cedar,such as were of great height, and had the mostcurious works of architecture in them, heshould overlook the ark, while it was laid ina tabernacle; and he was desirous to build atemple to God, as JMoses had predicted sucha temple should be built. And when he haddiscoursed with Nathan the prophet aboutthese things, and had been encouraged by himto do whatsoever he had a mind to do, ashaving God with him, and his helper in allthings: he was thereupon the more ready toset about that building. But God appearedto Nathan that night, and commanded himto ||say to David, that he took his purposes David kept himself within the bounds of modesty, howjoyous soever he might be. It was a command whichGod gave the Israelites, that they should rejoice in theirfeasts, Deut. xii. 7; but then their joy was not to be las­civious or petulant, but pious and moderate. In the casebefore us, David was in the more immediate presence ofGod, and about a very sacred business; and therefore itis incongruous to think that he would commit any thingimmodest. And, that he could not expose his nakedness(as his wife would insinuate,) is evident from his havingnot only an ephod on, but being clothed with a robe offine linen, besides his usual under garments, 1 Chron. xv.27, and therefore, though his putting off his regal robesmight give some occasion to Michal's expression of hisuncovering himself, yet it must be owned, that this op­probrious term proceeded from nothing but the overflow­ing spleen of a proud passionate woman. Calmefs andPatrick?! Commentaries. B. * Hence correct our other copies. 2 Sam. vi. 23. t This is now wanting. I Josephus here informs us that, according to his un­derstanding of the sense of his copy of the Pentateuch, and his desires kindly, since nobody had be­fore now thought of building him a temple;although upon his having such a notion, hewould not permit him to build him that tem­ple, because he had made many wars, andwas defiled with the slaughter of his ene­mies; that, however, after his death, in hisold age, and when he had lived a long life,there should be a temple built by a son ofhis, who should take the kingdom after him,and should be called Solomon, whom he pro­mised to provide for, as a father provides forhis son, by preserving the kingdom for hisson's posterity, and delivering it to them;but that, if he sinned, he would still punishhim, with diseases and barrenness of land.When David understood this from the pro­phet, and was overjoyed at this knowledgeof the sure continuance of the dominion to hisposterity, and that his house should be splen­did, and very famous, he came to the ark,and fell down on his face, and began toadore God, and to return thanks to him forall his benefits; as well for those that he hadalready bestowed upon him, in raising himfrom a low state, and from the employmentof a shepherd, to so great dignity of dominionand glory; as for those also which he hadpromised to his posterity, and besides forthat providence which he had exercised overthe Hebrews, in procuring them the libertythey enjoyed. And when he had said thus,and had sung a hymn of praise to God, hewent his way. Moses had himself foretold the building of the temple:which yet is no where that I know of in our presentcopies. And that this is not a mistake, set down by himunwarily, appears by what he observed before, IV. 8.how Moses foretold, that upon the Jews' future disobedi­ence, their temple should be burnt and rebuilt; and thatnot once only, but several times afterwards. See alsoJosephus's mention of God's former commands to buildsuch a temple presently, chap. xiv. contrary to our othercopies; or at least to our translation of the Hebrew.2 Sam. vii. 6, 7. 1 Chron. xyii. 5, 6. II Josephus seems in this place, with our modern in­terpreters, to confound the two distinct predictions whichGod made to David, and to Nathan, concerning the build­ing him a temple, by one of David's posterity; the onebelonging to Solomon, the other to the Messiah: the dis­tinction between which is of the greatest consequence tothe Christian religion: and of which I have largely treatedin my Boyle's Lectures, from p. 247—272. To whichdiscourse I must here refer the inquisitive reader. Seealso Antiq. VII. 13. and chap. xiv.