OCR Output 528 ROMAN EMPIRE. mercenaries themselves? The African and the Turkishguards drew their swords against each other, and thechief commanders, the emirs al Omra,' imprisoned ordeposed their sovereigns, and violated the sanctuary ofthe mosch and haram. If the caliphs escaped to thecamp or court of any neighbouring prince, their deliver­ance was a change of servitude, till they were promptedby despair to invite the Bowides, the sultans of Persia,who silenced the factions of Bagdad by their irresistiblearms. The civil and military powers were assumed byMoezaldowlat, the second of the three brothers, and astipend of sixty thousand pounds sterling was assignedby his generosity for the private expense of the com­mander of the faithful. But on the fortieth day, at theaudience of the ambassadors of Chorasan, and in thepresence of a trembling multitude, the caliph was drag­ged from his throne to a dungeon, by the command ofthe stranger, and the rude hands of his Dilemites. Hispalace was pillaged, his eyes were put out, and the meanambition of the Abbassides aspired to the vacant stationof danger and disgrace. In the school of adversity, theluxurious caliphs resumed the grave and abstemious vir­tues of the primitive times. Despoiled of their armourand silken robes, they fasted, they prayed, they studiedthe Koran and the tradition of the Sonnites; they per­formed with zeal and knowledge the functions of theirecclesiastical character. The respect of nations stillwaited on the successors of the apostle, the oracles ofthe law and conscience of the faithful; and the weak­ness or division of their tyrants sometimes restored theAbbassides to the sovereignty of Bagdad. But theirmisfortunes had been embittered by the triumph of theFatimites, the real or spurious progeny of Ali. Arising • The office of vizier was superseded by the emir a 1 Omra Imperator Imperatorum,a title first instituted by Radhi, and which merged at length in the Bowides andSeljukides: vectigalibus, ettributis, et cnriis peromnes regionesprsfecit.jussitquein omnibus suggestis nominis PJUS in concionibus mentionem fieri. (Abulpharagius,Dynast, p. 190.) It is likewise mentioned by Elmacin. (p. 254,