OCR Output an. 839.] 341 ANNUITIES OF THE JEWS. dedicated in the temple, and sent them tothe king of Syria, and procured so much bythem that he was not besieged, nor his king­dom quite endangered: but Hazael was in­duced by the greatness of the sum of moneynot to bring his army against Jerusalem.*Yet Jehoash fell into a severe distemper,and was set upon by his friends, in order torevenge the death of Zachariah the son ofJehoiada. These laid snares for the king,and slew him. He was buried in Jerusalem,but not in the royal sepulchres of his fore­fathers, because of his impiety. He livedforty-seven years; and Amaziah his son suc­ceeded him in the kingdom.f In the Jtwenty-first year of the reign ofJehoash, Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, tookthe government of the Israelites in Samaria,and held it seventeen years. He did notproperly imitate his father; but was guiltyof as wicked practices as those that first hadGod in contempt. But the king of Syriabrought him low, and by an expeditionagainst him did so greatly reduce his forces,that there remained no more of so great anarmy than ten thousand men, and fifty horse­men. He also took away from him many ofhis great cities, and destroyed his army.And these were the things that the people ofIsrael suffered according to the prophecy ofElisha, when he foretold that Hazael shouldkill his master, and reign over the Syriansand Damascens. But when Jehoahaz wasunder such unavoidable miseries, he had re­course to prayer and supplication to God;and besought him to deliver him out of thehands of Hazael, and not overlook him, andgive him up into his hands. AccordinglyGod accepted of his repentance; and, beingdesirous rather to admonish those that might repent, than to determine that they shouldbe utterly destroyed, he granted him deliver­ance from war and dangers. So the countryhaving obtained peace, returned to its formercondition, and flourished as before. After the death of Jehoahaz,|| his son Joashtook the kingdom, in the thirty-seventh yearof Jehoash, king of the tribe of Judah; andhe retained the government sixteen years.He was a good man,§ and in his dispositionnot at all like to his father. Now at thistime it was that the king of Israel went tovisit Elisha the prophet, who was alreadyvery old, and was now fallen into a disease,and when the king found him very neardeath, he began to weep in his sight, andlament, calling him his father, and hisweapons; because it was by this means thathe never made use of his weapons againsthis enemies: but overcame them by hisprophecies, without fighting. And that hewas now departing this life, and leaving himto the Syrians, who were already armed;and to other enemies that were under theirpower. So he said it was not safe for himto live any longer; but that it would be wellfor him to hasten to his end, and depart outof this life with him. As the king was thusbemoaning himself, Elisha comforted him, anddesired him to bend a bow that was broughthim; and when the king had fitted the bowfor shooting, Elisha took hold of his hands,and bade him shoot. And when he had shotthree arrows, and then left off, Elisha said,"If thou hadst shot more arrows, thou hadstcut the kingdom of Syria up by the roots;but since thou hast been satisfied withshooting three times only, thou shalt fightand beat the Syrians no more times thanthree; that thou mayest recover that country * 2 Kings xii. 18.t 2 Kings xii. 21. I The twenty-third, Hebrew and Septuagint. II An. 842. § This character of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, thathe was a good man; and in his disposition not at all likehis father, seems a direct contradiction to our ordinarycopies; which says, 2 Kings xiii. 11. that he did evil inthe sight of the Lord, and that he departed not from allthe sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israelto sin. Which copies are here the truest, it is difficult todetermine. If Josephus's be true, this Joash is the singleinstance of a good king over the ten tribes. If the otherbe true, we have not one such example. The accountthat follows, in all copies, of the prophet Elisha's con- cern for him, and his concern for Elisha, greatly favourJosephus's copies: and suppose this king to have beenthen a good man, and no idolater; with whom God'sprophets used not to be so familiar. Upon the whole,since it appears, even by Josephus's own account, thatAmaziah the good king of Judah, while he was a goodking, was forbidden to make use of the 10,000 auxiliarieshe had hired of this Joash, king of Israel: as if he andthey were idolaters ; -IX. 9. 2 Chron. xxv. 5—9. it ismost likely, that these different characters of Joash suitedthe different parts of his reign: and that according'to ourcommon copies, he was at first a wicked king; and after­wards was reclaimed, and became a good one, accordingto Josephus. 3N2