OCR Output DISCOURSE III. The Athenians are too high-spirited to recal their troops,and have too good an opinion of Nicias to dismiss him fromthe command. Though Attica was now invaded by the Pe-loponnesians, and a fortress raised by them within sight ofAthens itself for their lasting annoyance, they send a power­ful reinforcement to Nicias under the command of Demos­thenes. They empty Athens of the residue of her strength,so highly wanted for domestic support. The Syracusans,when advised of this reinforcement, redouble their alacrity,and hope to finish the war before it could arrive. Theyhad had a career of success against Nicias, had just beathim both by land and sea, when Demosthenes steered intothe harbour of Syracuse. The sight caused a strange alter­native of elevating hope and dreadful apprehensions in thecontending parties. The Syracusans again become the be­sieged ; and Demosthenes is intent to put an end to the siege,if possible, by vigorous and daring measures. His attempt to re-take Epipohe is, in our author's de­scription of it, as fine a night-piece as can possibly bedrawn, and no pencil could express it stronger. The moonshines just bright enough to shew us the Athenians gainingthe ascent, and to give a glimpse of the approaches of thearmies and their first struggles with one another. The wholesoon becomes gloomy confusion and horrid tumult. Whata medley of singing their paeans, of conflict, of flight, ofpursuit! friends and countrymen routing one another, tillnumbers come tumbling down the precipices, and perish inthe fall! The hope of the Athenians is blasted: Syracuseerects her trophies fast. Demosthenes is now convinced the most prudent stepthey could take is to raise the siege, and Nicias at last com-plies. The very moment they are going to embark theirtroops, the moon is eclipsed. Who but must pity the weak­ness of Nicias at so dangerous a crisis ? who but be sorry in­deed, that so good and amiable a man should stop an armyfrom a principle of superstition, and detain them for so long