OCR Output 164 LIVY. the greater part of the day, while very many fell onboth sides; and night came on before it could be disco­vered to which side victory inclined. But the follow­ing dawn showed the conqueror and the vanquished;for the Etrurians had decamped in the dead of thenight. The Romans, marching out with intent to re­new the engagement, and seeing their superiority ac-knowleged by the departure of the enemy, advanced totheir camp; and, finding even this fortified post de­serted, took possession of it, together with a vastquantity of spoil. The consul then, leading back hisforces into the Faliscian territory, and leaving hisbaggage with a small guard at Falerii, set out with histroops, lightly accoutred, to ravage the enemy's coun­try : and not only was the ground laid waste, but theirforts also and smaller towns were destroyed by fire.He did not, however, lay siege to the cities, into whichthe Etrurians had been hurried by their fears. Theother consul, Fulvius, fought the Samnites at Bovia-num, where he gained great honor, and a completevictory. Then attacking the town, and soon after Au-fidena, he took both by assault. This year a colonywas carried out to Carseoli, in the territory of thejEquicolae. The consul Fulvius triumphed on his de­feat of the Samnites. 13. Shortly before the election of consuls a reportprevailed that the Etrurians and Samnites were raisingvast armies; that the leaders of the Etrurians were, inall their assemblies, openly censured for not havingprocured the aid of the Gauls on any terms ; and themagistrates of the Samnites arraigned, for having op­posed to the Romans an army destined to act againstthe Lucanians. That, in consequence, the people wererising up in arms, with all their own strength and thatof their allies combined ; and that this affair seemednot likely to be terminated without a contest of muchgreater difficulty than the former. Although the candi­dates for the consulship were men of illustrious cha­racters, yet this alarming intelligence turned thethoughts of all on Quintus Fabius Maximus, who