OCR Output 84 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. land had operated beneficially—giving help to many of thesufferers and hope to all. But after the founding of Luna 177. (677) no trace of further assignations of land is to be metwith for a long time, with the exception of the isolatedinstitution of the Picenian colony of Auximum (Osimo) in 157. 597. The reason is simple. After the conquest of theBoii and Apuani no new territory was acquired in Italy ex­cepting the far from attractive Ligurian valleys; therefore noother land existed for distribution there except the leased oroccupied domainland, the laying hands on which was, as mayeasily be conceived, just as little agreeable to the aristocracynow as it was three hundred years before. The distributionof the territory acquired out of Italy appeared for politicalreasons inadmissible; Italy was to remain the rulingcountry, and the wall of partition between the Italianmasters and their provincial servants was not to be brokendown. Unless the government were willing to disregardconsiderations of higher policy or even the interests of theirorder, no course was left to them but to remain spectatorsof the ruin of the Italian farmer-class; and this resultaccordingly ensued. The capitalists continued to buy outthe small landholders, or indeed, if they remained obstinate,to seize their fields without title of purchase; in which case, asmay be supposed, matters were not always amicably settled.A peculiarly favourite method was to eject the wife and chil­dren of the farmer from the homestead, while he was in thefield, and to bring him to compliance by means of the theoryof " accomplished fact." The landlords continued mainly toemploy slaves instead of free labourers, because the formercould not like the latter be called away to military service;and thus reduced the free proletariate to the same level of'misery with the slaves. They continued to supersedeItalian grain in the market of the capital, and to lessen itsvalue over the whole peninsula, by selling Sicilian slave-cornat a mere nominal price. In Etruria the old native aristo­cracy in league with the Roman capitalists had as early as 134. 620 brought matters to such a pass, that there was no longera free farmer there. It could be said aloud in the market ofthe capital, that the wild beasts had their lairs but nothingwas left to the burgesses save the air and sunshine, and thatthose who were called the masters of the world had nolonger a clod that they could call their own. The censuslists of the Roman burgesses furnished the commentary on