OCR Output SCYTHIA. M9 SCYTHIA. i*» rwirvs of the rireni and at their licad-watcrs)«* i Tort practicable character. Moi'XTAi!t&—These were the eastern continuation«f tfct Carpathians, and the hills of the Crimea or: ura. These were but imperfectly known to Hero- Likes, [See Exampaf.cs and Bens.]Towaa, exclusively Greek colonies. [See Olbi-orou»; Paxticavaecm.] fcroad the Saurornatae («. r.) lay "other*7tbisi», who, having revolted from the Royal,n*.:}'M this country,** L e. some part of Orenburg ft »x ThitJlr, there were the Sacae, whom we mayl i the Scythians of the Persian frontier. Their*■-j parry was the parts conterminous with Bactria,•■-'j it *u under Darius, the son of Hystaspes, that*rr, along with the Bactrians, joined in the invasiont Greece. Their dress was other than Buctrian,**4iog of a pointed turban, a bonnet, leggings,atrrv bows, daggers, and the axe called odyapit- n totU which is probably technical. There wererrthae Anryrgii, truly, however, Scythae, inasmuch1 tie Persians called all the Scythians by the nameteas. Under the reign of Cyrus they were in-~."*Mjt. Under Darius, they, along with the.■fu. formed the 15th satrapy (iii. 93). Thisfacets them with their frontagers on the west,-*r than the east. TVre m no difficulty, however, in fixing them.m AUrrabad to Balk they extended along thertVre frootier of Persia, in the area, and probablyt « ancestors, of the present Turcomans and'it The name Amyrgii will be noticed in therarl TV Sacae, if not separated from the " other Sey-d* by the greater part of Independent Tartary,% it any rate, a population that presented itself:t* informants of Herodotus under a differentset. The Sacae were what the Persians foundnVnr northern frontier. The eastern Scythaeft the Scythians beyond the Saurornatae, aa they'e&mi to the occupants of the parts about themm. : • not difficult to see the effect of these threeof rww cpon future geographers. With Scy-m m Transylvania, Scythians in Orenburg, withfcane (even though called Sacae) in KkorasanrnmmiiM, and with a terra incognita between,tame cannot but fail to take upon itself an in­ure amount of generality. The three isolated■ will be connected; and the historical or eth-peal rarity wi'l give way to a geographical. At"jt, biwrever, there is a true unity over the|p of Scjthia in the way both of^r»ioc*oirr akd Hawnek8.—The physical,a-ra*ion of the Scythians is not only mentionedUttaily by Herodotus, but in a more specialby Hippocrates: "The Scythian 7«Voftwlrfv different from the rest of mankind,•% tike to nothing but itself, even as is the*-Aisjx. Their bodies are thick and fleshy, and''^z£+ Ix*b«, without tone, and their bellies thetfBMMC {t\ ftoftest (?), inoistest (?) (roUiaiwrreu) of ail bellies aa to their lower parts-<wv «»iAee*r ml arartv); for it is not possiblea* telly to be dried in such a country, bothtv- m«1 and climate, but on account of the fat. • icftootlinesa of their flesh, they are all like<her, the men like the men, the women likemc*.* (Hippncr. de Aere, &c. pp. 291, 292.) Coming as this notice does from a physician, it hascommanded considerable attention; it has, however,no pretensions to be called a description, though thishas often been done. In the hands of later writers itsleading features become exaggerated, until at lengththe description of a Scythian becomes an absolutecaricature. We may see this by reference to Am-mianus Marcellinus and Jornandes, in their accountsof the Huns. The real fact inferred from the textof Hippocrates is, that the Scythians had a peculiarphysiognomy, a physiognomy which the modernethnologist finds in the population of Northern andCentral Asia, as opposed to those of Persia, Cauca­sus, Western and Southern Europe. Their general habit* were essentially nomadic,pastoral, and migratory; the commonest epithets ordescriptive appellations being 'Aua^i&ui, ♦ff/^oucoi,'ImroTo'foTai, and the like. Concerning their Relicjiov, we have somethingmore than a mere cursory notice (iv. 59). (i.) Tabiti(Tafffr.): This was the Scythian name for thenearest equivalent to the Greek I/istia (Vesta), thedivinity whom they most especially worshipped,(ii.) Papaeus; "Most properly, in my mind, is Zeusthus called." So writes Herodotus, thinking of theideas engendered by such exclamations as Daa-ar.(iii.) Apia: This is the name for earth: as (iv.) Oeto-syrus (OiToVi/pos) is for Apollo, and (v.) Ailimpasafor Aphrodite, and (vi.) Thamimasada fur Poseidon,the God of the Royal Scythians most especially. ToOestosyrua we have the following remarkable in­scription (Gud. Inscrip. Antiq. p. 56. 2; see Zeuss,s. r. Shjthen): 6EA. 2EAOIT02KTPA (? 5EA-tjkii) KAI APO LIANA. OIT02KTPn. MI0PA.M. OTAI1I02. nAOKAMOX NEflKOPOS. ANE0(»*■*)* Here the connection is with the Persiangod Mtthras. The Scoloti sacrificed to all their gods, but toMars the most especially; for, besides the deitieswhich have been mentioned under their severalScythian names, Mars and Heracles were objects ofparticular adoration. The Scythian Venus, too,was the 'Atppo&TTj ovpavln. To Ares, however, theysacrificed most especially and most generally; for'there was a place of worship to him in every v6pLotI (mark the use of this word, which is applied to thedivisions of the Persian empire as well), wherehorses, sheep, and captives were sacrificed, and wherethe emblem of the god was an iron sword,—even asit was with the Alani of Ammianus and the Hunsof Priscus. Human beings were sacrificed, but no swine.Neither were swine eaten, nor were they toleratedin the country. This is noticed, because in many ofthe nations of Northern Asia, e. g. the Wotiaks andothers, the hog, even now, is held in abomination,and that by Pagan tribes untinctured with Muho-metanism. Notwithstanding the praises of the earlier poets,the wars of the "just and illustrious" Scythianswere of a piece with the worship of their war-god.They scalped their enemies, and they used theirskulls as drinking cups (cc. 64—65). Once ayear the monarch of each nome filled a vast vat withwine and apportioned it to the warriors who hadkilled most enemies during the year. Those whosehands were unstained got none, and were disgraced;those who had killed many took a double allowance(c. 66). Their soothsayers, amongst other superstitions,practised rhabdomancy, amongst whom the Enarees