OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. and they viewed from afar the walls of the holy city, chap.which were profaned in their eyes by the triumph of XVIILthe cross, and the devotion of the Christians *. In the midst of a rocky and barren country, the Jerusalem.walls of Jerusalem t inclosed the two mountains ofSion and Acra, within an oval figure of about threeEnglish miles t. Towards the south, the upper town,and the fortress of David, were erected on the loftyascent of Mount Sion: on the north side, the build­ings of the lower town covered the spacious summitof Mount Acra; and a part of the hill, distinguishedby the name of Moriah, and levelled by human in­dustry, was crowned with the stately temple of theJewish nation. After the final destruction of thetemple, by the arms of Titus and Hadrian, a plough­share was drawn over the consecrated ground, as asign of perpetual interdiction. Sion was deserted;and the vacant space of the lower city was filled withthe public and private edifices of the JElian colony,which spread themselves over the adjacent hill ofCalvary. The holy places were polluted with monu­ments of idolatry; and, either from design or acci­dent, a chapel was dedicated to Venus, on the spotwhich had been sanctified by the death and resurrec­tion of Christ. Almost three hundred years afterthose stupendous events, the profane chapel of Venuswas demolished by the order of Constantine; andthe removal of the earth and stones revealed the holysepulchre to the eyes of mankind. A magnificentchurch was erected on that mystic ground, by thefirst Christian emperor; and the effects of his pious * Basnage has fully illustrated the state of the Jews under Constantine andhis successors (torn. viii. c. ir. p. 111—153). f Reland (Palestin. 1. i. p. 309. 390.1. Hi. p. 838.) 'describes, with learningand perspicuity, Jerusalem, and the face of the adjacent country. J I have consulted a rare and curious treatise of M. d'Anville (sur l'ancienneJerusalem, Paris, 1747; p. 75,). The circumference of the ancient city (Euseb.Preparat. Evangel. I ix. c. 36.) was twenty-seven stadia, or '2550 toises. A plan,taken on the spot, assigns no more than 1980 for the modern town. The circuitis defined by natural landmarks, which cannot be mistaken or removed, P 4