OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIO.UH IES OF THE JEWS. 331 he gave her the cities that were within the river Eleutherus, asfar as Egypt, excepting Tyre and Sidon, which he knew tohave been free cities from their ancestors, although she pressedhim very often to bestow those on her also. 2. When Cleopatra had obtained thus much, and had accom足panied Antony in his expedition to Armenia, as far as Eu足phrates she returned back, and came to Apamia and Damascus,and passed on to Judea, where Herod met her, and farmed ofher parts of Arabia, and those revenues that came to herfrom the region about Jericho. This country bears that bal足sam, which is the most precious drug that is there, and grows-there alone. The place bears also palm-trees, both many innumber, and those excellent in their kind. When she was there,and was very often with Herod, she endeavoured to have crim足inal conversation with the king: Nor did she affect secrecy inthe indulgence of such sort of pleasures; and perhaps she had insome measure .a passion of love to him, or rather, what is mostprobable, she laid a treacherous snare for him, by aiming toobtain such adulterous conversation from him: However, uponthe whole, she seemed overcome with love to him. Now Herodhad a great while borne no good-will to Cleopatra, as knowingthat she was a woman irksome to all; and at that time he thoughther particularly worthy of his hatred, if this attempt proceededout of lust: he had also thought of preventing her intrigues, byputting her to death, if such were her endeavours. However,he refused to comply with her proposals, and called a council ofhis friends to consult with them, "Whether he should not kill"her, now he had her in his power? for that he should thereby"deliver all those from a multitude of evils to whom she was"already become irksome, and was expected to be still so for"the time to come; and that this very thing would be much"for the advantage of Antony himself, since she would certain-"ly not be faithful to him, in case any such reason or necessity"should come upon him as that he should stand in need of her"fidelity." But when he thought to follow this advice, hisfriends would not let him; and told him, That "in the first"place it was not right to attempt so great a thing, and run"himself thereby into the utmost danger: and they laid hard"at him, and begged of him, to undertake nothing rashly, for"that Antony would never bear it, no not though any one"should evidently lay before his eyes that it was for his own"advantage; and that the appearance of depriving him of her"conversation, by this violent and treacherous method, would"probably set his affections more in a flame than before. Nor"did it appear that he could offer any thing of tolerable weight"in his defence, this defence being against such a woman as VOL. II. T T 2S