OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 473 to put any indignity upon believers in him, but rather to af­ford his suffrage to them. About A. D. 510. Cassiodorus Hist. Tripartit. e Sozo-tneno.—Now Josephus, the son of Mattathias, and a priest, aman of great nobility among the Jews, and of great dignityamong the Romans, shall be a truth of Christ's history: forhe dares not call him a man, as a doer of famous works, anda teacher of true doctrines; he names him Christ openly; andis not ignorant that he was condemned to the cross, and ap­peared on the third day alive, and that an infinite number ofother wonderful things were foretold of him by the holy pro­phets. Moreover, he testifies also, that there were then alivemany whom he had chosen, both Greeks and Jews, and thatthey continued to love him; and that the sect which wasnamed from him was by no means extinct at that time. About A. D. 640. Chron. Alex. p. 514.—Now Josephusalso relates in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, how Johnthe Baptist, that holy man, was beheaded on account ofHcrodias, the wife of Philip, the brother of Herod himself;for Herod had divorced his former wife, who was still alive,and had been his lawful wife : she was the daughter of Aretas,king of the Petreans. When, therefore, Herod had takenHerodias away from her husband, while he was yet alive (onwhoso account he slew John also,) Aretas made war againstHerod, because bis daughter had been dishonorably treated :in which war he says, that all Herod's army was destroyed,and that he suffered that calamity because of the wickednesshe had been guilty of against John. The same Josephus re­lates, that Herod lost his kingdom on account of Herodias,and that with her he was banished to Lyons, &c. P. 526, 527.] — Now that our Savior taught his preachingthree years, is demonstrated both by our necessary reason­ings, as also out of the holy gospels, and out of Josephus'swritings, who was a wise man among the Hebrews, &c. P. 584, 586.]—Josephus relates in the fifth book of the [Jewish] war, that Jerusalem was taken in the third [second] year of Vespasian, as after forty years since they had dared to put Jesus to death: in which time he says, that James the 40* '