OCR Output B. IV. 385 YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. These after an interval of time wondered at the delay, andby gradually advancing were got close to the city. Such ofthe Toroneans within, as acted in concert with those whohad entered, when once the postern was burst, and thegates leading to the forum were thrown open after burstingthe bar, in the first place conducting some of them aboutled them in at the postern, that they might strike a suddenpanic on the ignorant inhabitants when attacked in rear andin flank and on all sides. This done they lifted up theappointed signal of fire, and gave instant admittance to therest of the targeteers through the gates which led to theforum. Brasidas, when once he saw the signal, roused up his armyand led them running towards the place, shouting all at oncealoud, and thus striking the greatest consternation into theinhabitants. Some immediately rushed in at the gates ;others mounted over the square wooden machines, which, asthe wall had lately fallen down and was now rebuilding, layclose to it for the raising of stones. Brasidas, with the bulkof his force, betook himself immediately to the upper parts ofthe city; intending to seize the eminence, and possess him­self effectually of the place. The rest dispersed themselvesequally through every quarter. Amidst this surprisal, the majority of the Toroneans, quiteVgnorant of the plot, were in vast confusion. But the agentsin it and all their party were quickly ranged with the assail­ants. The Athenians, (for of them there were about fiftyheavy-armed asleep in the forum,) when they found whatwas done, some few excepted who were slain instantly on thespot, fled away for preservation; and some by land, others inthe guard-ships stationed there, got safe into Lecythus, a fortof their own. They kept this in their own hands, as it was theextremity of the city towards the 6ea stretched along on anarrow isthmus. Hither also those of the Toroneans, whopersevered in their fidelity, fled to them for refuge. It being now broad day and the city firmly secured, Bra­