OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 85) re«l md mmt lofty of all the aqueducts, beingMl pusis, or nearly 59 miles, long, and itsin mt oreasixnallj 109 feet high. (Front. 15.)i i!» ra completed by the emperor Claudius,ix»itj from tbe inscription still extant upon its:» ov« tl* Porta Magniire; where bothB ll» city on the same arch, the Anio Novusring over the Claudia. Hence it was conducted9 the CaeGan hill on the Arcis Nehoniani orf.:jH(i!CTA!ii. which tenninated, as we have-«:v 'tii near the temple of Claudius.\y I'rwopius mentions fourteen aqueducts, five'*>i triQ't have been adiled between the time of•:; i< mo of that historian; but respecting onlyhart we any certain information. The first of • i> pnitaiily the Aql'a Trajana, which wenr upon coins of Trajan, and which isTt:it;.«ied in the Acta Martyr. S. Anion. The tiien from the neighbourhood of thei' Shcinus (I.ago di Bracciano), and, beingtortra to the height of the Janiculum, served to v.* Milt under that hill. (Procop. U. G. i. 19.) d'Kl still serves to convey the .4con« Puola,i. tam, has been spoilt by water taken fromhi*. U ra also called Cut IK I A. Aor.v Alexandria was constructed bynprnr Alexander Severus for the use of his'lUmprid. Alex. 25.) Originally it was the v t-'iat now called Aequa Felice, but con-4 it a lower level. • A.ji a Sevt.riana is supposed to have been\f :lie emperor Septimius Severus for the use> «tbi in the 1st Region; but there is noart to establish its execution. • Aqr/A Axtostimana was probably executediicaUa fur the service of his great baths in theB«gwo; but this also is unsupported by anyKwi proofs. (Canina, Indie, p. 620.) Thei ir.i history of a few other aqueducts which fed mentioned are too obscure to■ »<iot here. hei not belong to this subject to notice the'Wit. an account of which will be foundvat Lrad. m and Literature ok Romas Topo­graphy. « 'h» exception of existing monuments, the£d most authentic sources for the topographyfar* the passages of ancient authors in which-■ kriliries are alluded to or described. In- • area valuable source of information. Ry■>«: .reportant of these is the Monumknti jr lorn, er copy of the record left by Augustusar-irus; aa account of which is given else- [■V4. L p. 154.] To what is there said we I* »U that tbe best and most useful edition ofrunest is that published at Rerlin with the'' J of Frani. and a commentary by A. W. (IMS, 4to. pp. 120). Another valuablo'-r. tiwagh not nearly so important as the*. ;ifa«ord, U that called the Rasis Capi-'('-rater, eel), containing the numcs of the S Bepaw (the lat, 10th, lath, 13th, and•taw curatores and vieomttgiatri erected■arat to Hadrian. It will be found at • < bVkrr's llandbuch, vol. i. We may*'.»»: unarm sources of this description thera* 1 Calendars which have been found in H»t«, sad which arc frequently useful byJ •!» aita of temples where certain sacrifices were performed. For the most part the originalmarbles of these fragments have disappeared, andthe inscriptions on them are consequently only ex­tant in MS. copies. One of the most ancient monu­ments of this kind is the Fasti Maffeorum orCalendarium Mafkeanum, so called from itshaving been preserved in the Palazzo Mnffei. Witha few lacunae, it contains all the twelve months; butwhat little information that is to be found in it, be­sides the principal festivals, relates chiefly to Au-eustus. The next in importance is the FastiPraknkstini, discovered at Praeneste (Palettrina)in 1774. Verrius Flaccus, the celebrated gram­marian, arranged and annotated it, caused it to becut in marble, and erected it in the forum at Prae­neste. (Suet. 1U. Gramm. c. 17.) Only four orfive months are extant, and those in an imperfectstate. The Calexdarium Amitehninim wasdiscovered at Amiternum in 1703, and contains themonths from May to December, but not entire. Thecalendar called Fasti Cafrahicohum, so namedfrom its having formerly been preserved in the Pa-lazy* Cajtranica, contains August and Septembercomplete. Other calendars of the same sort are theAktiati.nlm, Vkxisinum, &c. Another lapidarydocument, but unfortunately in so imperfect a statethat it often serves rather to puzzle than to instruct,is the Capitoijnf. Plan. This is a large plan ofRome cut upon marble tablets, and apparently ofthe age of Septiinius Severus, though with subse*quent additions. It was discovered by the architectGiovanni Antonio Dosi, in the pontificate of PiusIV., under the church of iSS. Cosmo e Damiano;where, broken into many pieces, it was used as acovering of the walls. It came into the possessionof Cardinal Farncse, but was put away in a lumberroom and forgotten for more than a century. Reingrediscovered, it was published in 1G73, in 20 plates,by Giovanni Pietro Bellori, librarian to Queen Chris­tina; and subsequently at the end of the 4th vo­lume of the Thesaurus of Gracvius. The originalfragments were carried to Naples with the otherproperty of the Famese family, and were subse­quently given by the king of Naples to PopeBenedict XIV. In 1742 Benedict presented themto the Capitoline Museum at Rome, where they nowappear on the wall of the staircase; but several ofthe pieces had been lost, for which copies, after theilesigns of Rellori and marked with a star, weresubstituted. On these fragments the plans of someancient buildings may be made out, but it is veryseldom that their topographical connection can betraced. Amongst the literary records relating to Romantopography, the first place must lie assigned to theNktitia. The full title of this work is: NotitiaDignitatum utriusque 7m/>en'i, or in Partibus Ori-cntis et Occidents; and it is a statistical view ofthe Roman empire, of which tbe description of Romeforms only a small portion or appendix. It cannotIw later than the reign of Constantine, since noChristian church is mentioned in it, and indeed nobuilding later than that emperor; nor, on the otherhand, can it be earlier, since numerous buildings ofthe 3rd century, and even some of Constantinc's,are named in it. The deMgn of it seems to havebeen, to name the principal buildings or other objectswhich marked the boundaries of the different Re­gions; but we are not to assume that these objectsare always named in the order in which they oc­curred, which is far from being the case. This 3l 2