OCR Output BOMA. ROMA. 785 r afculuJ in, which served as a waiting-placer fnreicn ambassadors before they were admitted • an au hence of the senate, was constructed on the'jkmnal close to the curia, as before described.o« adornment of the auggestum or oratorical plat-ra on the comitiam with the beaks of the ships.sen from the Antiates, forma, from the connectiontit* celebrated object witii the history of republicann*, and the change of name which it underwent occasion, a sort of epoch in the history ofThis occurred B. c 337. (Plin.an. II.) Th« Rostra at this time stood, as wei» aaai, on the comitium before the curia—a■ataaa which they continued to occupy even afterr tmm that new ones were erected by Julius Cac-r. (Dion Cass, xliii. 49; Ascon. ad Cic. Uilim.f Thm roatra were a templum, or place conse­nt by angaries (" Rostrisque earum (navium)1**truB in foro extructum, adornari plucuit:toaqwa id templum appellatum," Liv. viii. 14;i Cic aa I'atm. 10.) They are distinguishedDim Cassia* (hri. 34) from those erected byvar, by Use epithet of flij^a "TuoryopiicoV, andthat of Vetera. (Suet. Aug. 100.)from a passage in a letter ofiw'i to the emperor Antoninus, that the rostra • nut raited to any very great height above thea af taw comitium and forum (*' Nec tantulo—trr. quanta rostra foro et comitio excelsiora; antemnae aunt prora vel potius carina,"a rp. 3). When speaking from the rostra it Banal ta the more ancient times for the oratorm towards the comitium and curia,—a custom selected by C. Liciniua Crassus in the consul-i ef ij. Maxirnus Scipio and L. Mancinus, whoM towards Use fc>rnm and addressed himself to saoaAt (Cic Am. 25); though, according toaath (Gracch. 5), this innovation was intro- itfC ~ (r'rom a Coin.) of columns in honour of militaryvery early into use at Rome,preceded the triumphal arch,of this sort appears to have[*» column ox> the forum called the Columnait a. cornrormormtive of the victory gained byna aerr the Latins, b. c. 338. (Liv. viii.Lrry, indeed, in the passage cited says thatI biiibiiI waa an equestrian statue; whilsta the other hand (xxxir. 11) states thatt a r^irmr1. which is also mentioned byL (£a*t 58.) Xiebuhr would reconcile botha*, by aaa tuning that the statue was on a co-{BrnL Tol. iii. p. 145.) I'liny in anothithat the column afforded the 01 placemeans MrS that trjC column auuium inc inrajis jjiag the last hoar of the day ("A columnai ad carcerern inclinato sidere supremam(accensus)") < b°' '* veI7 difS^ult—l the forum could have thrown a shadow towards the career in tho evening. Another celebrated monument of the same kindwas the Duili&n column, also called Columna Ro-strata, from its having the beaks of ships sculpturedupon it. It was erected in honour of C. Duilius,who gained a great naval victory over the Cartha­ginians, B. c. 260. According to Servius (Georg.iii. v. 29) there were two of these columns, one onor near the rostra, the other in front of the circus.Pliny, indeed (xxxiv. 11), and Quintilian (In»t.i. 7) speak of it as "in foro;" but Jorum is ageneric name, including the comitium as a part, andtherefore, as used by these authors, does not in­validate the more precise designation of Servins.The basis of this column was found at no greatdistance from the arch of Severus (Ciacconio,Columnar Hostratae Inscrip. Krjilicatio, p. 3, ap.Canina, Foro Rom. p. 301, note), a fact whichconfirms the position which wo have assigned to thecomitium and curia. The inscription in a frag­mentary state is still preserved in the Palazzo uVConserratori. COLCMSA DtrlUA. On the forum in front of the rostra stood thestatue of Marsvab with uplifted hand, the emblemof civic liberty. (Serv. ad Am. iv. 58; cf. Ilacrob.Sat. iii. 12.) Hero was the great resort of thecautidici, and also of the Roman courtesans. HenceMartial (ii. 64.8): — "Ipse potest fieri Marsya causWicus."Horace (Sat. i. 6. 120) has converted the pointedfinger of the Satyr into a sign of scorn and derisionagainst an obnoxious individual:— "obeundus Marsya, qui se Yukum fcrre negat N'oviorum posse minoris." It was here that Julia, the daughter of Augustus,held her infamous orgies, in company with tho 3 K