OCR Output xlii On his Qualifications as a Historian. friend doth he commend? or, what enemy doth he re­proach ?—Brasidas was the immediate occasion of his dis­grace and exile. Yet, how doth he describe him ? Hemakes the most candid acknowledgments of his personalmerit, and doth justice to all his shining and superior abili­ties. Cleon is generally supposed to have irritated the peo­ple against him, and to have got him most severely punished,when he merited much better returns from his country.Doth he shew the least grudge or resentment against thisCleon ? He represents him indeed in his real character ofa factious demagogue, an incendiary, a bully, and of coursean arrant coward. And how do all other writers ? how dothAristophanes paint this worthless man, this false bellowingpatriot ? I would never call Aristophanes for an evidenceto character, but in cases where every other writer accordedfully with him, on the same foundation of truth, though notwith the same superstructure of bitterness and abuse. Heshould not be a voucher in regard to Socrates, or Pericles;but certainly may be heard about a Hyperbolus or a Cleon.Thucydides never mentions himself as opposed to any manbut Brasidas; and never so much as drops an insinuationthat he was hurt by Cleon. And thus, by general consent,he had gained immortal honour by giving fair and true re­presentations of men, whom he never felt to be such, butwhom succeeding writers have assured us to have actuallybeen his enemies.—As to things; though in the first sevenyears of the war he must in some measure have had employ­ment, yet he was soon disentangled from all business what­ever, in a manner which bore hard upon his reputation. Hehath stated the fact ; and then with the greatest calmness andunconcern, he hath left the decision to posterity. He was henceforth of no country at all. Cut off from therepublic of Athens, he never sought after or desired a natu­ralization in any other State of Greece. He was now onlyto choose out and fix a proper spot of observation, fromwhence, like a person securely posted on a promontory, he