OCR Output 142 SIMON 01 GEEASA. [B. IV. against him; and all the Idumeans separated themselves fromthe tyrant, and attempted to destroy him, and this out oftheir envy at his power and hatred of his cruelty ; so theygot together, and slew many of the zealots, and drove therest before them into that royal palace that was built byGrapte, who was a relation of Izates, the king of Adiabene:the Idumeans fell in with them, and drove the zealots outthence into the temple, and betook themselves to plunderJohn's effects; for both he himself was in that palace, andtherein he had laid up the spoils he had acquired by histyrants. In the mean time the multitude of those zealotsthat were dispersed over the city ran together to the temple,unto those that had fled thither: and John prepared to bringthem down against the people and the Idumeans, who werenot so much afraid of being attacked by them, because theywere themselves better soldiers than they, as at their mad足ness, lest they should privately sally out of the temple, andget among them, and not only destroy them, but set the cityon fire also. So they assembled themselves together, andthe high-priests with them, and took counsel after what man足ner they should avoid their assault. Now it was God whoturned their opinions to the worst advice, and thence theydevised such a remedy to get themselves free as was worsethan the disease itself. Accordingly, in order to overthrowJohn, they determined to admit Simon, and earnestly to desirethe introduction of a second tyrant into the city; which reso足lution they brought to perfection, and sent Matthias, the high-priest, to beseech this Simon to come into them, of whomthey had so often been afraid. Those also that had fled fromthe zealots in Jerusalem joined in this request to him, out ofthe desire they had of preserving their houses and theireffects. Accordingly, he, in an arrogant manner, grantedthem his lordly protection, and came into the city in order todeliver it from the zealots. The people also made joyful ac足clamations to him, as their savior and their preserver: butwhen he was come in with his army, he took care to securehis own authority, and looked upon those that had invitedhim in to be no less his enemies than those against whom theinvitation was intended.