OCR Output 56 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. times represented, in a vacant post, the presence ofXXXIv- the troops which had been drawn away to more es­sential duties. But his just confidence was placed inthe veterans who had fought under his banner in thePersian and African wars; and although that gallantband was reduced to five thousand men, he under­took, with such contemptible numbers, to defend acircle of twelve miles, against an army of one hun­dred and fifty thousand Barbarians. In the walls ofRome, which Belisarius constructed or restored, thematerials of ancient architecture maybe discerned*;and the whole fortification was completed, except ina chasm still extant between the Pincian and Fla-minian gates, which the prejudices of the Goths andRomans left under the guard of St. Peter the apostle t.The battlements or bastions were shaped in sharpangles; a ditch, broad and deep, protected the footof the rampart; and the arches on the rampart wereassisted by military engines; the balista, a powerfulcross-bow, which darted short but massy arrows; theonagri, or wild asses, which, on the principle of asling, threw stones and bullets of an enormous size.A chain was drawn across the Tyber; the arches ofthe aqueducts were made impervious, and the moleor sepulchre of Hadrian t was converted, for the firsttime, to the uses of a citadel. That venerable struc­ture, which contained the ashes of the Antonines,was a circular turret rising from a quadrangular basis:it was covered with the white marble of Paros, anddecorated by the statues of gods and heroes; and thelover of the arts must read with a sigh, that the works * The accurate eye of Nardini (Roma Antica, 1. i. c. viii. p. 31) coulddistinguish the tumultuaric opeia di Belisario. -f The fissure and leaning in the upper part of the wall, which Procopius ob­served (Goth. 1. i. c. 13.), is visible to the present hour. (Donat. Roma Vetus,1. i. c. 17- p- 53, 54). % The description of this mausoleum, or mole, in Procopius (I. i . c . 25.), isthe first and best. The height above the walls ayjhi i; K/Ja [ii\m. On Nolli'sgreat plan, the aides measure 260 English feet.