OCR Output DISCOURSE II. xllX tory, which is pithy, nervous, and succinct, yet plain, strik­ing, and manly. He never flourisheth, never plays uponwords, never sinks into puerilities, never swells into bom­bast. It is a relation from the mouth of a very great man,whose chief characteristic is gravity. Others talk more in­genuously ; others utter themselves with a more cheerfulair; yet, every one must attend to Thucydides, must hearkenwith serious and fixed attention, lest they lose a word, aweighty and important word, by which the whole storywould be spoiled. It is in his Orations that he is most re­markably obscure. He might not be so in so high a degreeto the apprehensions of mankind, when his history was first-"made public. The world was then used to hear continualharangues: No business of a public nature could be carriedon without them. In his time, the speakers aimed intirelyat strength and brevity. If they were not exceeding quick,the apprehensions of the Athenians would outstrip, or atleast affect to outstrip, their utterance. They must thinkmuch, and yet leave much of what they had thought to theready conception of the audience. An orator in the follow­ing history* calls them " Spectators of speeches." Theyaffected to discern at the first glance, and without waitingfor formal deduction and solemn inference, to be mastersof the point as it were by intuition. The more copious anddiffusive eloquence was the improvement of the next gene­ration. But the most forcible orator, that even Athens everboasted, improved, if he did not quite learn, his peculiarmanner from Thucydides. It was Demosthenes, who co­pied him in the close energy of his sentences, and the abruptrapidity of his thoughts. Demosthenes is said to have tran­scribed him eight times over with his own hand: so diligentlydid he persevere to form an intimate acquaintance with him,and habituate himself to his quick manner of conception,and to his close and rapid delivery. Cicero says howeverf,that " no rhetorician of Greece ever drew any thing from• Cleon's speech in book the third. t IQ ll|e Orator. Vol, I, G