OCR Output C. IV.] TO THE JEWS. 279 connected the upper city to the temple. This bridge it wasthat lay between the tyrants and Caesar, and parted them;while the multitude stood on each side; those of the Jewishnation about Simon and John, with great hopes of pardon,and the Romans about Caesar, in great expectation how Tituswould receive their supplication. So Titus charged his sol­diers to restrain their rage, and to let their darts alone, andappointed an interpreter between them, which was a sign thathe was the conqueror, and first began the discourse, and said,— "I hope you, sirs, are now satiated with the miseries ofyour country, who have not had any just notions either ofour great power or of your own great weakness, but have,like madmen, after a violent and inconsiderate manner, madesuch attempts as have brought your people, your city, andyour holy house to destruction. You have been the men thathave never left off rebelling since Pompey first conqueredyou, and have since that time made open war with the Ro­mans. Have you depended on your multitude, while a verysmall part of the Roman soldiery have been strong enoughfor you ? Have you relied on the fidelity of your confederates?And what nations are there, out of the limits of our dominion,that would choose to assist the Jews before the Romans ? Areyour bodies stronger than ours ? Nay, you know that the[strong] Germans themselves are our servants. Have youstronger walls than we have ? Pray, what greater obstacleis there than the wall of the ocean, with which the Britonsare encompassed, and yet do adore the arms of the Romans.Do you exceed us in courage of soul and in the sagacity ofyour commanders ? Nay, indeed, you cannot but know thatthe very Carthaginians have been conquered by us. It can,therefore, be nothing certainly but the kindness of the Ro­mans which hath excited you against us; who, in the firstplace, have given you this land to possess; and, in the nextplace, have set over you kings of your own nation ; and, inthe third place, have preserved the laws of your forefathersto you, and have withal permitted you to live either by your­selves or among others, as it should please you; and, what isour chief favor of all, we have given you leave to gather up