OCR Output 122 THE TYRANNY OF JOHN. [B. IV. the opinions of others, and giving out injunctions of his own,in a very imperious manner, so that it was evident he wassetting up a monarchical power. Now some submitted tohim out of their fear of him, and others out of their good-willto him; for he was a shrewd man to entice men to him, bothby deluding them and putting cheats upon them. Nay, manythere were that thought they should be safer themselves, ifthe causes of their past insolent actions should now be reducedto one head, and not to a great many. His activity was sogreat, and that both in action and in counsel, that he hadnot a few guards about him ; and yet there was a great partyof his antagonists that left him; among whom envy at himweighed a great deal, while they thought it a very heavything to be in subjection to one that was formerly their equal.But the main reason that moved men against him was thedread of monarchy, for they could not hope easily to put anend to his power if he had once obtained it; and yet theyknew that he would have this pretence always against them,that they had opposed him when he was first advanced; whileevery one chose rather to suffer any thing whatsoever in war,than that, when they had been in a voluntary slavery for sometime, they should afterward perish. So the sedition was di­vided into two parts, and John reigned in opposition to hisadversaries over one of them: but for their leaders theywatched one another, nor did they at all, or at least verylittle, meddle with arms in their quarrels; but they foughtearnestly against the people, and contended one with anotherwhich of them should bring home the greatest prey. Butbecause the city had to struggle with three of the greatestmisfortunes, war, and tyranny, and sedition, it appeared uponthe comparison that the war was the least troublesome to thepopulace of them all. Accordingly they ran away from theirown houses to foreigners, and obtained that preservation fromthe Romans which they despaired to obtain among their ownpeople. 2. And now a fourth misfortune arose, in order to bringour nation to destruction. There was a fortress of very greatstrength not far from Jerusalem, which had been built by our