OCR Output 8 • VESPASIAN. [B. III. Vespasian equal to the task, and able to undergo the greatburden of so mighty a war, seeing he was grown an old manalready in the camp, and from his youth had been exercisedin warlike exploits: he was also a man that had long agopacified the west, and made it subject to the Romans, whenit had been put into disorder by the Germans: he had alsorecovered to them Britain by his arms, which had been littleknown before;' whereby he procured to his father, Claudius,to have a triumph bestowed on him without any sweat orlabor of his own. 3. So Nero esteemed these circumstances as favorableomens, and saw that Vespasian's age gave him sure expe­rience and great skill, and that he had his sons as hostagesfor his fidelity to himself, and that the flourishing age theywere in would make them fit instruments under their father'sprudence. Perhaps also there was some interposition ofProvidence, which was paving the way for Vespasian's beinghimself emperor afterwards. Upon the whole, he sent thisman to take upon him the command of the armies that werein Syria; but this not without great encomiums and flatteringcompellations, such as necessity required, and such as mightmollify him into complaisance. So Vespasian sent his sonTitus from Achaia, where he had been with Nero, to Alex­andria, to bring back with him from thence the fifth and thetenth legions, while he himself, when he had passed over theHellespont, came by land into Syria, where he gathered to­gether the Roman forces, with a considerable number ofauxiliaries from the kings in that neighborhood. 1 Take the confirmation of this in the words of Suetonius, here producedby Dr. Hudson: "In the reign of Claudius," says he, "Vespasian, for thesake of Narcissus, was sent as a lieutenant of a legion into Germany.Thence he removed into Britain, and fought thirty battles with the enemy."In Vesp. sect. 4. We may also here note from Josephus, that Claudius theemperor, who triumphed for the conquest of Britain, was enabled so to doby Vespasian's conduct and bravery, and that he is here styled the fatherof Vespasian.