OCR Output 174 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII. ed down into that army, which they left in their camp, and sawthat it was overthrown; and the camp burnt; for the smoke thatarose from it showed them, even when they were a great wayoff, what had happened. When therefore those that were withGorgias understood that things were in this posture, and per­ceived that those that were with Judas were ready to fight them,they also were affrighted, and put to flight; but then Judas, asthough he had already beaten Gorgias' soldiers without fighting,returned and seized on the spoils. He took a great quantity ofgold and silver, and purple, and blue, and then returned homewith joy, and singing hymns to God for their good success; forthis victory greatly contributed to the recovery of their liberty. 5. Hereupon Lysias was confounded at the defeat of the ar­my which he had sent, and the next year he got together sixtythousand chosen men. He also took five thousand horsemen,and fell upon Judea; and he went up to the hill country of Beth-sur, a village of Judea, and pitched his camp there, where Judasmet him with ten thousand men; and when he saw the greatnumber of his enemies, he prayed to God, that he would assisthim, and joined battle with the first of the enemy that appeared,and beat them, and slew about five thousand of them, andthereby became terrible to the rest of them. Nay, indeed, Lysiasobserving the great spirit of the Jews, how they were preparedto die rather than lose their liberty, and being afraid of theirdesperate way of fighting, as if it were real strength, he tookthe rest of the army back with him, and returned to Antioch,where he listed foreigners into the service, and prepared to fallupon Judea with a greater army. 6. When therefore the generals of Antiochus' armies hadbeen beaten so often, Judas assembled the people together, andtold them, That " after these many victories, which God had"given them, they ought to go up to Jerusalem, and purify the"temple, and offer the appointed sacrifices." But as soon as he,with the whole multitude, was come to Jerusalem, and foundthe temple deserted, and its gates burnt down, and plants grow­ing in the temple of their own accord, on account of its deser­tion, he and those that were with him began to lament, andwere quite confounded at the sight of the temple; so he choseout some of his soldiers and gave them order to fight againstthose guards that were in the citadel, until he should have puri­fied the temple. When therefore he had carefully purged it,and had brought in new vessels, the candlestick, the table [ofshew-bread], and the altar [of incense], which were made ofgold, he hung up the vails at the gates, and added doors to them.He also took down the altar [of burnt-offering], and built a newone of stones that he gathered together, and not of such as were