OCR Output rALAESTIKA.53] PALAEST1KA. (rrorrainjf Um two tribes and a halt' beyondiltlmurh their general disposition has been■sbcipaled m the arcoant of the nations whom theyfapnntmei. [Ajcorites.] Arsmem, God, and half Manauek.—The southernpart id the old Amorite conquests on the east ofassigned by Moses to the Keubenites,seem to haTe been coextensivetoe kingdom of Sibon, kin? of the Amorites,capital was at Heshbon. [Hesbox.] Therev.some apparent confusion in the accounts; ■ wfcus Reuben is amid to have possessed " from"-by tbe river Amon,.. .Heshbon,.. .and all the bnpasmi of SLbon king of the A mi. ritesGad is■h* amid to bare had " the rat of the kingdom of"'uut while Gad in said to have held 11 all the■nam of Gilmmd," Manasseh is raid to have had'aatf Gtfead." (Josh, xiii. corn p. ver. 21 with 27,aW 25 with 31); while from Numbers (xxxii. 39—41) it vMold appear tliat Mmnasseh possessed the> •-- of Gi&esd. As the Israelites were not per-mcami to occupy the country which tbey found stilli ^*essaon of the Ammonites, but only so much'' ■» at mad been taken from tbem by Sihon king ofw Ananiea. the limits of the Israelite possessionsthe Ammonites are not clearly definedrrxx; Ba*han]; and it may be doubtedthe distrination of the country among thesod s half was not regulated rather bythe accident of conquest than by anylimits: certain it is that it woulddifficult to draw a line which shouldmil the cities belonging to any one tribe, andbm* Mtea are fixed with any degree of certainty,I yet eschade all other cities mentioned as be-trwr to ease of tbe other tribes. Generally itf far mid that the possessions of Gad and Reuben's* the mouth and west of the trans-Jordanics^m. «kUe thwe of Mana>seh lay in the moun­ts t» the cssst of the Jordan valley and the lakeCnr^nc It is plain only that the Jordan wasI mnrssr of the two former, anil that of these thebsf Gad held tbe northern part of the valley, toat- sam of Chirmereth." (Josh. xiii. 23, 27.)r Gadites are said to have built nine cities,laVmbemites mix, it can only be understood tothrr restored them after they had beenby their old inhabitants, as in the casethe sua of Manaaseb it is expressly saidI W onufraud tbe cities of the dispossessedr.VW>. xxxii. 34—42.) It may, per-a » i iia Imlsil from Deut. iii. t—17 that, whileof Sihon was divided between the ■ of Gsd and Besaben, the whole kingdom of Ogto tbe half-tribe of Manasseh; as, indeed, rv prntmble that the division of the land onof Jordan also followed its ancient distri­ct i-^ir; its farmer inhabitants,la r-rnarfced by BeJand, that the division of the1st SsVamwai has been too commonly overlooked,■d regard only to the provision of» tsstle, it is calculated to throw consider-I ss sacred pet"prmphy. Tbe country was Bass fmJw district it, under superior officers,sf wfcsssi were allied to the king by mar-of shii ti districts was made chargeabletime rrtf-*^ during one month intfalese divisions bad any furtherdoes not appear, but it is difli-'that an J merely eumptunry exigences•chested such an elaborate arrange- ment The divisions agree for the most part withthose of the tribes. (1 Kings, iv. 7—19.) 3. Third Period.—We have no distinct account ofthe civil division of the country on the return of the\ Jews from the captivity, and during its subsequenti history, until it was reduced to a lioman province.J Under the Persians, the title of "governor on thisj side the river," so frequent in the books of Nehe-1 miah and Kzra, and the description of the strangers,colonists of Samaria, as "men on this side the| river" (Euphrates), probably indicates the onlydesignation by which Palestine was known, as acomparatively small and insignificant part ot one ofthe satrapies of that enormous kingdom. {Ezra,iv. 10, 17; v. 20, vi. 6, &c; Neh. ii. 7, iii. 8, &c.)Among the Jews, the ancient divisions were stillrecognised, but gradually the larger territorial divi­sions superseded tbe tribual, and the political geo­graphy assumed the more convenient form whichwe find in the New Testament and in the writingsof Josephus, illustrated as they are by the classicalgeographers Pliny and Ptolemy. The divisions most familiar to the readers of theNew Testament are, Judaea, Galilee, Samaria, I)e-capolis, and Peraea. in which is comprehended thewhole of Palestine, with the exception of the sea-border, the northern part of which is called u thecoasts of Tyre and Sidon" by the evangeliMs, andcomprehended under the name of Phoenice byJosephus and the classical geographers. The threefirst-named districts are very clearly descril>ed byJosephus; and his account is the more valuable asconfirming the descriptions contained in the Bible ofits extreme fertility and populousness, which will,however, present no difficulty to the traveller whohas had the opportunity of observing tbe naturalfertility of the soil in the parts still rudely culti­vated, and the numerous traces of tbe agriculturalindustry of ancient times. Galilee, Upper and Lower.—"There arc twoGalilees, one called Lower, the other Upper, whichare surrounded by Phoenicia and Syria. On thebide of the setting sun they are bounded by thefrontiers of the territory of Ptolemais, and Carmel,a mountain formerly belonging to the Galileans,but at present to the Tynan*; which is joined byGaba, called tin1 * city of knights/ became theknights disbanded by Herod dwell there: and onthe south by Samaria and Seythopolis, as far as tberiver Jordan. On the east it is bounded by Hippeneand Gadaris, and Gaulanitis und the frontiers ofAgrippas kingdom. The northern limit is Tyreand the Tyrian territory. That which is calledLower Galilee extends in length from Tiberias t<>Chahulon, near which on the sea-coast is situatedPtolemais. Its greatest breadth is from a Tillagecalled Xalbth, situated in the great plain, to ller-base; from which place also the breadth of UpperGalilee commences, extending to a village namedBaca, which separates the Tyrian territory fromGalilee. In length, Upper Galilee reaches to Merotltfrom Thella, a village near the Jordan. 11 Now the two Galilees, being of such extent, andsurrounded by foreign nations, have always n-iv.e.ievery hostile invasion; for its inhabitants are trainedto arms from their infancy, and are exceedinglynumerous; and neither have the men ever beenwanting in courage, nor the country suffered 1'rumpaucity of inhabitants, vines it is rich, and favour­able for pasture, and planted with every variety oftree; *> that by its fertility it invites even those m >t '2