OCR Output ROMA. 719 ROMA (Vifai, Stnk. PtaL et aln : Eth. Roma-t»\ thr chief to*n of Italy, and long the mistress*i ibr indent world. CONTENTS. Pale initios - - - - - 7 9 Una, - - - - - 721 Put I. — Hiitosy op tbs City. I. lYiliuou respecting the foundation of Rome 722 II. Thrclt! of Romulus - -724 Pomoerium - - - - 724 blast*Use Palatine city - - -727III Progress of th. CUT till the building of the •alls of >r.. , Tulllus - - - 729Legend of Tarpeia— Ports Jsnuslis, and Trtnple of J anna .... 729Rfjtoat at Sert lus - . - .733 Septlmonilum ..... 734IT. rmjcma of the city till the tints of Augustus 735KFftona of Augustus ... - 737flu municipal regulations ... 739Auruatan Rome .... 740V. Ruio'T of the city till the building of the ■alia of AureUsn - - - - 741Fire under Nero . - - - 741Changes under subsequent Emperors -741H D-rluieand Kail of the city - - -742Rtastr lo the lime of t'onilantlul II. -7417V Ssrbsrisna at Rome - - - 743Rome under the Popes ... 745'n |v, w ,•;..„ of Rome - - - - 746 Pasr II. — Topography. I. Willi and galas of Sersius Tulllus . 748 Surrey under Vespasian, and circumfe­rence of the city- ... 756raise and doubtful gates - . .757Traastiberine wall ... 757 II. WslU and sates of AureUsn sad Honorlus -* 758111 The Capitol - - - . .761 If- Tat Forum and Its environs • -772 The Sacra Via . . . - 773Virus Jugsrius and Virus Tuscus - 775The Comitiura .... 775The Forum under the Kings - . 778during the Republic - 783 uuder the Empire - - 7H9> Tie Imperial Fora - - - - 797si fhe Palatine. Veiia. and Nora Via ■. - 802*'l The Arrntlno - - - . .810 '111 lbs Vrlabrum. Forum Boarium, and Circus Mal'tnus . - .812 II 7V Caelum hill - - - -817 L TV district S. of the Caelisn ■ . 819U TV Eauuilluc and its neighbourhood . 822111 TV Vlminal. Qulnnal, and Plnclsn hills - 828III!. 7/Se Cajnpua Martius, Circus Flaminius, sod via Lata - • - .832In- T/anstiberlTje district - - - *t0 P CinL Theatres, and Amphitheatres - 84] l»i "*». . . - - - .847 'II Bridges - - - - - 848 Til Awslmta ■ - • - - 850 naa and Literature of Raman Topography - 851 SaTCATtOM. yss mted can the Tiber, and principally onat taut:, at a distance of about 15 miles from its■s. The observatory of the Collegia Romano,» ■ situated in the ancient Campus Martius,•MI0W52" N. lat-,and 12° 28'40" long. E. 1*1 Jjo in the vast plain now called thepBpM, which extends in a south-easterly di-» asset 90 miles from Cape Linaro, a * & ti Cwiia Vecchia, to the Circaean pro-■rr, vfeiaUt its breadth is determined by theBus ob the NE. and by the Mediterranean * &W„ a which direction it does not exceedI s! T miJea in its g rest test extent. Looking fruxn»f ths toighta of Roroe towards the I . . the 1»e K. ahnost to the S. by a nearly continuous chain of mountains, at a diht.incevarying from about 10 to 20 miles. This sideoffers a prospect of great natural beauty, which, tothe lover of antiquity, is still further enhanced bythe many objects of classical interest which it pre­sents. In the extreme north, at a distance of about20 miles, lies the round and isolated mass of So-racte. Theu follows the picturesque chain of theSabine Apennines, in which the peaked and loftysummit of Lucretilis, now Monte Gennaro, forms'*striking feature. A few miles farther S., at thospot where the Anio precipitates its waters throughthe chain, lies Tibur, embosomed in its grey andsombre groves of olives. More southward still, andseated on the last declivities of the Sabine mountains,is the 41 frigidum Praeneste " celebrated for its Sortesand its temple of Fortune (Cic. Dip. ii. 41), an J,like the neighbouring Tibur, one of the favourite re­sorts of Horace. (Orf. iii. 4.) A plain of 4 or5 miles in breadth now intervenes, after which thehorizon is again intercepted by the noble form ofMons Albanus {Monte Cavo), which closes the lineof mountains towards the S. This mass is clearlyof volcanic origin, and totally unconnected with theApennines. The mountain awakens many historicalrecollections. Its summit was crowned by thetemple of Jupiter Latiaris, the common sanctuaryand meeting place of the Latin cities, conspicuousfrom the surrounding plain, and even visible to themariner. Beneath lay Alba Longa with its lake;at its southern foot Lanuvium, and on its northerndeclivity Tusculum, consecrated by the genius andphilosophy of Cicero. To the S. and SW. of MonsAlbanus there is nothing to obstruct the view overthe undulating plain till it sinks into the sea; buton the W. and N\V. the prospect is bounded to a verynarrow compass by the superior elevation of MonsJani cuius and Mons Vatican us. The plain marked out by these natural boundariesis intersected by two considerable rivers, the Tiberand the Anio. The former, at first called Albula,and afterwards Tiberis or Tibris (Liv. i. 3; PI in,iii. 5. s. 9; Virg. A en. viii. 330, &c), entering theplain between Soracte and the Sabine chain beforedescribed, bends its yellow course to the S. Ata distance of about 3 miles from Koine, it receivesthe Anio flowing from the eastward, and then withincreased vohime passes through the city and dis­charges itself into the sea at (Mia. The course ofthe Tiber marked the limits of Etruria : the angu­lar territory between it and the Anio is attributed tothe Sabines; whilst on the southern side the line ofthe Anio and of the Tiber formed the boundary ofLatium. The CampaffTui of Rome consists of undulatingridges, from which scanty harvests are gathered;but the chief use to which it is applied is the pas­turing of vast herds of cattle. These, with thopicturesque herdsmen, mounted on small and halfwild horses and armed with long poles or lances, arealmost the only objects that break the monotony ofa scene where scarce a tree is visible, and whereeven the solitary houses are scattered at wide in­tervals. Yet anciently the Campagna must havepresented a very different aspect. Kven within sightof Home it was thickly studded with cities at firstas fli urisliing as herself; and in those limes, when"every rood of ground maintained its man," it musthave presented Hn appearance of rich cultivation. Such is the nature of the country in the immediateneighbourhood of Borne. The celebrated group of