OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. extinguish their resentment: the Turkish ambassadorspursued the footsteps of the vanquished to the Jaik, theVolga, mount Caucasus, the Euxine, and Constanti­nople, and at length appeared before the successor ofConstantine, to request that he would not espouse thecause of rebels and fugitives. Even commerce had someshare in this remarkable negotiation: and the Sogdoites^who were now the tributaries of the Turks, embracedthe fair occasion of opening, by the north of the Cas­pian, a new road for the importation of Chinese silkinto the Roman empire. The Persian, who preferredthe navigation of Ceylon, had stopped the caravans ofBochara and Samarcand: their silk was contemptuouslyburnt: some Turkish ambassadors died in Persia, witha suspicion of poison; and the great khan permitted hisfaithful vassal Maniach, the prince of the Sogdoites, topropose, at the Byzantine court, a treaty of allianceagainst their common enemies. Their splendid appareland rich presents, the fruit of oriental luxury, distin­guished Maniach and his colleagues from the rude sa­vages of the north: their letters, in the Scythian cha-*-racter and language, announced a people who had at­tained the rudiments of science," they enumerated theconquests, they offered the friendship and military aidof the Turks; and their sincerity was attested by direfulimprecations (if they were guilty of falsehood) againsttheir own head, and the head of Disabul their master.The Greek prince entertained with hospitable regardthe ambassadors of a remote and powerful monarch:the sight of silk-worms and looms disappointed thehopes of the Sogdoites; the emperor renounced, orseemed to renounce, the fugitive Avars, but he accepted * The Russians hare found characters, rude hieroglyphics, on the Irtish and Yeni­sei, on medals, tombs, idols, rocks, obelisks, &o. (Strahleoberg, Hist. or Siberia, p.324. 346. 406. 439.) Dr. Hyde(de Religione Veterum Persarum, p. 521, &c.) hasIfiven two alphabets of Thibet and of the Eygours. I have long harboured a suspi­cion that aUthe Scythian, and some, perhaps much, of the Indian science, was derivedfrom the Greeks of Bactruuia. : you v. '■..'. ; . ..