OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 159 law to be passed concerning appeals; more carefullyenforcing the observance of it by additional sanctions.This was the third time since the expulsion of the kingsof this law being introduced, and always by the samefamily. The reason for renewing it so often was, Ibelieve, no other than that the influence of a few wasapt to prove too powerful for the liberty of the com­mons. However, the Porcian law seems intendedsolely for the security of the persons of the citizens; asevere penalty being thereby enacted against beatingwith stripes, or putting to death, a Roman citizen.The Valerian law, after forbidding a person who hadappealed to be beaten with rods and beheaded, added,in case of any one acting contrary thereto, that it shallyet be only deemed a wicked act. -This, I suppose,was judged of sufficient strength to enforce obedienceto the law in those days; so powerful was then men'ssense of shame: at present one would scarcely makeuse of such a threat seriously, even on any ordinaryoccasion. The jEquans rebelling, the same consulconducted the war against them; in which no memo­rable event occurred; for, except ferocity, they re­tained nothing of their ancient condition. The otherconsul, Appuleius, invested the town of Nequinum inUmbria. The ground, the same whereon Narnia nowstands, was so steep, (on one side even perpendicular,')as to render the town impregnable, either by assaultor works. [A. U. C. 453. B.C. 299.] That businesstherefore came unfinished into the hands of the suc­ceeding consuls, Marcus Fulvius Pretinus and TitusManlius Torquatus. We are told by Licinius Macerand Tubero that all the centuries named Quintus Fa-bius, though not a candidate, consul for that year ; butthat he himself recommended to them to postpone theconferring the consulship on him until a year whereinthere might be more employment for their arms ; add-iug, that during the present year he might be moreuseful in the management of a city magistracy; andthus, neither dissembling what he aimed at, nor yetmaking direct application for it, he was appointed cu­