OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 209 confederates revived in the colonial laws, which Saturninusas tribune of the people had partly introduced already (651), 103partly now introduced (654).* As early as the former year loo.the interrupted distribution of the Carthaginian territoryhad been resumed primarily for the benefit of the soldiers ofMarius—not the burgesses only but, as it would seem, alsothe Italian allies—and each of these veterans had been pro­mised an allotment of 100 jugera, or about five times the sizeof an ordinary Italian farm, in the province of Africa. Nownot only was the provincial land already available claimedin its widest extent for the Romano-Italian emigration, butalso all the land of the still independent Celtic tribes beyondthe Alps, by virtue of the legal fiction, that through theconquest of the Cimbri all the territory occupied by thesehad been acquired de jure by the Romans. Gaius Mariuswas called to conduct the assignations of land and thefurther measures that might appear necessary in this behalf;and the temple-treasures of Tolosa, which had been embez­zled but were refunded or had still to be refunded by theguilty aristocrats, were destined for the new recipients oflands. This law therefore not only revived the plans of con­quest beyond the Alps and the projects of transalpine andtransmarine colonization, which Gains Gracchus and Flaccushad sketched, on the most extensive scale; but, by admittingthe Italians along with the Romans to emigration and yetundoubtedly prescribing the erection of all the new commu­nities as burgess-colonies, it formed a first step towardssatisfying the claims—to which it was so difficult to giveeffect, and which yet could not be in the long run refused—ofthe Italians to be placed on an equality with the Romans.First of all, however, if the law passed and Marius was calledto the independent carrying out of these immense schemes ofconquest and assignation, he would become practicallyfuntilthose plans should be realized or rather, considering theirindefinite and unlimited character, for his lifetime]monarchof Rome; with which view it may be presumed that Marius * It is not possible to distinguish exactly what belongs to the first and what ,' to the second tribunate of Saturninus; the more especially, as in both he evi­dently followed out the same Gracchan tendencies. The African agrarian lawis definitely placed by the treatise De Viria III. 73, 1 in 651; and this date 103.accords with the termination, which had just taken place shortly before, of theJugurthine war. The second agrarian law belongs beyond doubt to 654. The 100.treason-law and the corn-law have been only conjecturally placed, the formerin 651 (P. 187), the latter in 654. * 103. 100. VOl. HI.' V