OCR Output DISCOURSE III. lxv " their wrongs." He then put the question—Whether thepeace was broke ?—divided the council; told the votes ; anddeclared, in the English style, that the Ayes had it. The confederates were now called in, and acquaintedwith the resolution. Yet it seems the advice of Archida-mus had carried some weight, and actual war was to be de­ferred, till all the parties in the Lacedaemonian league hadripened their measures, and were ready to act with unanimityand vigor. Here the author again makes his appearance, and assuresus the true motive of the determination for a war at Sparta,was a JEALOUSY of the Athenian power now very great,and a dread of its more extensive growth ; the latter of whichthey were determined to prevent, and to reduce the formerwithin less distasteful and terrific bounds. Then follows a most pertinent digression, in which Thu-cydides points out the steps, by which the Athenians had sohighly exalted their State. In a close and succinct mannerhe runs over the history of Athens for fifty years, from theinvasion of Xerxes to the breaking out of the Peloponne-sian war. He arranges all the incidents in due place andtime. Herodotus hath related the splendid passages of theGrecian history during that invasion ; hath exhibited The-mistocles in all the lustre of his command at the battle ofSalamis, where the Athenians, who had abandoned their all,fought, and through the address of Themistocles obliged allparties to fight, for liberty against Xerxes. On this daythey earned a greater title than that of citizens of Athens;they were afterwards acknowledged the sovereigns of thesea. The Lacedaemonians became mortified at it; but theAthenians had gloriously deserved it. Themistocles was thevery life and soul of Greece on this occasion. In the midstof difficulties he formed a most extensive plan for his be-*loved Athens, which he began to execute at once. Thu-cydides describes his address and foresight. He soon setsthe city bevond the reach of envy and jealousy. And Vol. 1. ' I