OCR Output CHAP. 20. ROMANy HISTORY. 339 Thus the enemy's cavalry, who alone had kept thevictory in suspense, were broke and put to flight. Thedictator, in the mean time, pursued the flying legions,and drove them back to the camp with prodigious slaugh­ter. Many of the Fidenates being acquainted with thecountry, escaped to .the mountains. Cossus crossed theTiber with his cavalry, and returned to Rome loadedwith spoils from the territory of the Vejentes. Duringthe battle, there was also a skirmish at the Roman camp,with the party, which, as was formerly observed, hadbeen detached thither by Tolumnius. Fabius Vibulanusfirst defended the works by posting his men round them,but afterwards made a sally at the gate on the right ofthe Principia,* with the Triarria, and surprised theenemy, wholly intent upon forcing the lines. Terrorand confusion, on the part of the enemy -was the con­sequence of this manoeuvre; but the slaughter was notconsiderable, as there were but few engaged, thoughthe'rout was as general, and no less confused, than inthe field of battle. Ti CHAP. XX. COSMS presents JOpima Spolia to Jupiter Feretriia. HE Roman army having thus been everywhere vic­torious, the dictator, by decree of the senaic, and orderof the people, entered Rome in triumph; but what prin­cipally attracted the public attention in the procession,was Cossus bearing the spoils of the king, killed with hisown hand. The soldiers sung rude verses to his praise,comparing him to Romulus. He hung up these spoils inthe temple of Jupiter Feretrius, near those of Romulus,at that time the only spoils that bore the name of Opima,presenting them with a solemn dedication. All thewhile, he drew the eyes of the citizens from the dictator'schariot, and fixed them on himself, so that he engrossed * The Roman camp was a quadrangle, divided into two prin­cipal parts, between which was a spot of ground, about 100 feetlong, called the Principte The camp had four gates : in the front,the Praetorian; in the rear the Decumena; in the right, thePrincipals Dextta ; and on.tlie left, the Principal Lseva. ^