OCR Output 216 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book 17. of Gaius Gracchus had been broken up, partly by the forceof circumstances, partly and especially by the coarse boorishmanipulation of his incapable successor; but in the resultit mattered not whether calculation or good fortune helpedMarius poli- the government to its victory. A more pitiful position canticallyanni- hardly be conceived than that occupied by the hero of AquaeMlated. and yercellae after such a downfall—-all the more pitiful,because people could not but compare it with the eclat whichonly a few months before surrounded the same man. No oneeither on the aristocratic or the democratic side any longerthought of the victorious general on occasion of filling upthe magistracies; the hero of six consulships could not even98, venture to become a candidate in 656 for the censorship.He went away to the East, ostensibly for the purpose of ful­filling a vow there, but in reality that he might not be a witnessof the triumphant return of his mortal foe. Quintus Metellus:he was suffered to go. He returned and opened his house;his halls stood empty. He always hoped that conflicts andbattles would occur and that the people would once moreneed his experienced arm; he thought to provide himselfwith an opportunity for war in the East, where the Romansmight certainly have found sufficient occasion for energeticinterference. But this also miscarried, like every other ofhis wishes; profound peace continued to prevail. Yet thelonging after honours once aroused within him, the oftener itwas disappointed, ate the more deeply into his mind. Super­stitious as he was, he cherished in nis breast an old oracularsaying which had promised him seven consulships, and ingloomy meditation brooded over the means by which thisutterance was to obtain its fulfilment and he to obtain hisrevenge, while he appeared to all, himself alone excepted,insignificant and innocuous.The eques- Still more important in its consequences than the settingtrian party, aside of the dangerous man was the deep exasperationagainst the Populares as they were called, which the insur­rection of Saturninus left behind in the party of materialinterests. With the most remorseless severity the eques­trian tribunals condemned every one who professed oppo­sitional views; Sextus Titius, for instance, was condemnednot so much on account of his agrarian law as because hehad in his house a statue of Saturninus; Gaius AppuleiuaDecianus was condemned, because he had as tribune of thepeople characterized the proceedings against Saturninus as