OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 397 execution of his illustrious father; and Theodosius chap. . obtained, as a favour, the permission of retiring to a xxt,private life, in his native province of Spain. Hedisplayed a firm and temperate character in the easewith which he adapted himself to this new situation.His time was almost equally divided between thetown and country: the spirit which had animatedhis public conduct was shown in the active andaffectionate performance of every social duty; andthe diligence of the soldier was profitably convertedto the improvement of his ample patrimony *, whichlay between Valladolid and Segovia, in the midst ofa fruitful district, still famous for a most exquisitebreed of sheep f. From the innocent, but humble,labours of his farm, Theodosius was transported,in less than four months, to the throne of theEastern empire; and the whole period of the hi­story of the world will not perhaps afford a similarexample, of an elevation, at the same time, so pure,and so honourable; The princes who peaceably in­herit the sceptre of their fathers claim and enjoy alegal right, the more secure, as it is absolutely dirstinct from the merits of their personal characters.The subjects, who, in a monarchy, or a popular . estate, acquire the possession of supreme power, mayhave raised themselves, by the superiority either ofgenius or virtue, above the heads of their equals:but their virtue is seldom exempt from ambition;and the cause of the successful candidate is frequentlystained by the guilt of conspiracy, or civil war. Evenin those governments which allow the reigning mon­arch to declare a colleague, or a successor, his par­tial choice, which may be influenced by the blindestpassions, is often directed to an unworthy object. • Pacatus (in Panegyr. Vet. xii. 9.) prefers the rustic life of Theodosius tothat of Cincinnatus; the one was the effect of choice, the other of poverty. f M. d'Anville (Geographic Ancienne, torn. i. p. 25.) has fixed the situationof Caucha, or Coca, in the old province of Gallicia, where Zosimus and Idatiushave placed the birth, or patrimony, of Theodosius.