OCR Output 62 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. actions had deserved a thousand deaths, was at last con­demned for a crime of which he was innocent. Agreat minister, who had been invested with the honoursof consul and patrician, was ignominiously scourged likethe vilest of malefactors; a tattered cloak was the soleremnant of his fortunes; he was transported in a barkto the place of his banishment at Antinopolis in UpperEgypt, and the prefect of the east begged his breadthrough the cities which had trembled at his name.* During an exile of seven years, his life was protractedand threatened by the ingenious cruelty of Theodora;and when her death permitted the emperor to recal aservant, whom he had abandoned with regret, the am­bition of John of Cappadocia was reduced to the humbleduties of the sacerdotal profession. His successors con­vinced the subjects of Justinian, that the arts of op­pression might still be improved by experience and in­dustry; the frauds of a Syrian banker were introducedinto the administration of the finances; and the exampleof the prefect was diligently copied by the quasstor, thepublic and private treasurer, the governors of provinces,and the principal magistrates of the eastern empire.bni»edi6oes V. The edifices of Justinian were cemented with thetects!" " blood and treasure of his people; but those stately struc­tures appeared to announce the prosperity of the em­pire, and actually displayed the skill of their architects.Both the theory and practice of the arts, which dependon mathematical science and mechanical power, werecultivated under the patronage of the emperors; thefame of Archimedes was rivalled by Proclus and Anthe-mius; and if their miracles had been related by intelli­gent spectators, they might now enlarge the speculations,instead of exciting the distrust, of philosophers. A tra­dition has prevailed, that the Roman fleet was reduced b The chronology of Procopius is loose and obscure; but, with the aid of Pagi, Ican discern that John was appointed praetorian prefect of the east in the year 530;that he was removed in January 532—restored before Jane 533—hanished in 541 —and recalled between June 548 and April 1, 549. Aleman (p. 96, 97.) gives the listof his ten successors—a japid series in a single reign.