OCR Output 772 ROMA. ROMA. bability that among a people like the Romans a publicexecution would take place at a public and con­spicuous spot. The Centi m Gradus, or HundredSteps, were probably near it; but their exact situa- tion it is impossible to point out. Tbe other ajtii |on the Clivas and slopes of tbe bill will be &xnaiin the next section. p.''cram La° tnmi fl . r-——* OOj: PLAN OF THE FORUM DURING THE REPUBLIC. 1. Bullies Opimin. 2. Aeitei Concordiae. 3. Senaculum. 4. V'ulcanal.(iraccostasis.Curia. BiisMira Pnrrh. B.isilica Aemilia. P»>rU Stercoraria.cbola Xantha.Templum Sarurni.13, B;t»ilica Sempronia.13. Aciles Castoris. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.10.II. IV. The Forum and its Environs. The forum, the great centre of Roman life andbusiness, is so intimately connected with the Capitolthat we are naturally led to treat of it next. Itsoriginal site wxs a deep hollow, extending from theeastern foot of the Capitoline hill to the spot wherethe Velia begins to ascend, by tho remains of thetemple of Antoninus and Faustina. At the time ofthe battle between the Romans and Sabines thisground was in its rude and natural state, partlyswampy and partly overgrown with wood. (Dionys.ii. 50.) It could, however, have been neither athick wood nor an absolute swamp, or the battlecould not have taken place. After the alliance be­tween the Sabines and Romans this spot formed asort of neutral ground or common meeting-place,and was improved by cutting down the wood andfilling up the swampy parts with earth. We mustnot, indeed, look for anything like a regular forumbefore the reign of Tarquinius Triscus; yet some ofthe principal lines which marked its subsequent ex­tent had been traced before that period. On the E.and W. these are marked by the nature of theground; on the former by the ascent of the Velia,on the latter by the Capitoline hill. Its northernboundary was traced by the road called Sacra Via.It is only of late years, however, that these bound­aries have Wn recognised. Among the earliertopographers views equally erroneous and discordant 14. Regim.1ft. Font Jc 16. Aedes W»a 17. Putea) Liboatt.1*. LacuA Curtiu*.19. Hoitra. '20. Signum Vertumak,21. Fornix Fabiaow.a a. Sacra Via.bbb. Clivut C*pitaliDu«»c c. Vicut Jugaxha.d d. Vicut T prevailed upon the subject; some aftthe forum lengthways from the ,—the summit of the Velia, where tbe inow stands; whilst others, taking the*the Capitoline and temple of Faustina t»!its breadth, drew its length in a southerly 4so as to encroach upon the Velabrom.theory was adopted by Nardint, andvery recently. Piale {Del Foro AVimn, I1818, 1832) has the merit of havingcorrect general view of tbe forum, taoogalis not always accurate in details. The praparlof the forum were established by excavabeaajflbetween the Capitol and Colosseom in lt^flfollowing years, when M. Fea saw c-jpobtfaWtemple of Antoninus and Faustina, a f*** 4pavement of the Sacra Via, similar to that mnins under the arch ot N'. IRom. earplique, p. 7.) A similar piece bat Jpreviously discovered during excawmxtDBB'the year 1742, before the church of S. Adthe eastern corner of tbe Via BommUa, <roni ( Vestigie di Roma antica. p. 75)sidered to belong to the Sacra Via. A;longed through these two pieces towaxwa 1Severos will therefore give thestreet, and the boundary of tbeThe southern side was no lessmined by the excavations made in 1835.Basilica Julia was discovered; and in frofrfl