OCR Output 88 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. 177. 163. (consul in 577, 501, and censor in 585), was the true model169. of a Roman aristocrat. The brilliant magnificence of hisaedilician games, not produced without oppressing the de­pendent communities, had drawn upon him the severe anddeserved censure of the senate (ii. 338); his interference inthe pitiful process directed against the Scipios who werepersonally hostile to him (ii. 283) gave proof of his chival­rous feeling, and perhaps also of his regard for his ownorder; and his energetic action against the freedmen in hiscensorship (ii. 354) evinced his conservative disposition.As governor, moreover, of the province of the Ebro (ii.2, 11), by his bravery and, above all, by his integrity he ren­dered a permanent service to his country, and at the sametime raised to himself in the hearts of the subject nation anenduring monument of reverence and affection. His mother Cornelia was the daughter of the conquerorof Zama, who, simply on account of that generous interven­tion, had chosen his former opponent as a son-in-law; sheherself was a highly cultivated and notable woman, whoafter the death of her much older husband had refused thehand of the king of Egypt, and reared her three survivingchildren in memory of her husband and her father. Tiberius,the elder of the two sons, was of a good and moral disposi­tion, of gentle aspect and quiet temper, apparently fittedfor anything rather than for an agitator of the masses. Inall his relations and views he belonged to the Scipioniccircle, whose refined and thorough culture, Greek andnational, he and his brother and sister shared. ScipiojEmilianus was at once his cousin and his sister's husband;under him Tiberius, at the age of eighteen, had taken part inthe storming of Carthage, and had by his valour acquiredthe commendation of the stern general and warlike distinc­tions. It was natural that the able young man should,adopt and develop, with all the animation and all the rigidconsistency of youth, the views as to the decay of the state inall its parts, which were prevalent in that circle, and more es­pecially their ideas as to the elevation of the Italian farmers.Nor was it to the young men alone that the shrinking ofLaelius from the execution of his ideas of reform seemed tobe not judicious, but weak. Appius Claudius, who had 143. 136. already been consul (611) and censor (618), one of themost respected men in the senate, censured the Scipioniccircle for having so soon abandoned the scheme of distri­