OCR Output 170 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. not to sully the fame of their immortal victories;XV1L and ventured to promise, that if they would imme­diately return to their allegiance, he would under­take to obtain from the emperor, not only a free andgracious pardon, but even the revocation of the orderswhich had excited their resentment. But the sol­diers, who were conscious of their guilt, chose ratherto depend on the gratitude of Julian than on theclemency of the emperor. Their zeal was insensiblyturned into impatience, and their impatience intorage. The inflexible Caesar sustained till the thirdhour of the day their prayers, their reproaches, andtheir menaces; nor did he yield, till he had beenrepeatedly assured, that if he wished to live, he mustconsent to reign. He was exalted on a shield in thepresence, and amidst the unanimous acclamations, ofthe troops; a rich military collar, which was offeredby chance, supplied the want of a diadem; the cere­mony was concluded by the promise of a moderatedonative; and the new emperor, overwhelmed withreal or affected grief, retired into the most secretrecesses of his apartment*.tes'XIs of ^he grief of Julian could proceed only from hisinnocence. innocence; but his innocence must appear extremelydoubtful t in the eyes of those who have learned tosuspect the motives and the professions of princes.His lively and active mind was susceptible of thevarious impressions of hope and fear, of gratitude andrevenge, of duty and of ambition, of the love of fameand of the fear of reproach. But it is impossible forus to calculate the respective weight and operation ofthese sentiments; or to ascertain the principles of * For the whole narrative of this revolt, we may appeal to authentic and ori­ginal materials; Julian himself (ad S. P. Q. Atheniensem, p. 282, 283, 284.),Libanius (Orat . Parental. c. 44—48. in Fabricius Bibliot. Graec. torn. vii. p. 269—273.), Ammianus (xx. 4.), and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 151, 152, 153.), who, inthe reign of Julian, appears to follow the more respectable authority of Eunapius. t Eutropius, a respectable witness, uses a doubtful expression, "consensumilitum." (x. 15).