OCR Output ODRVSAE. 4'.'. OEANTHEIA. ic.4i lUr king Sadiles, who bod no children,iriMthed bis kingdom to the Romans, and pos-mim «» taken of it by Brutus. (Cues. B. C.a (; DwnCias. ilvii. 25; Lucan, v. 54.) Aurajuu Kerns to hare left the Odrysians theviruuct of independence, In the year B. c. 29,I retors for the friendly disposition which they had«iiTc kwirdi the Romans, they were presented byILCoem with a territory hallowed by the worshipit Biotas, which he had conquered from the Bessi(heCau. li. 25). In the year B.c. 20, Rhoe-mlilm, who wis administering the kingdom asrariiu of the three infant sons of the deceasedSMartfl G&ji IV., succeeded, with the assistance ofu* Bmcius under M. Lollius, in reducing the Bessi(//lit.M) A few yean afterwards, the BessiVi: rw under their leader Vologaeses, a priest ofhr&m, lad drove Rhoematalces into the Cher-the; were, however, soon reduced to submis-»• ir Ltriog piso; Rhoematalces was restored;ad t stand appear, from Tacitus, that under hisi*JrT)iins aciiuijevl the dominion (if ailIkut (Dion Can. liv. 34; Tac. ^nn. ii. 64).Tea isjarat prosperity was, however, entirely de-**!<•' « the Romans, by whose influence they** .irtmed. Thus, after the death of Rhoema-ftasa, we find Augustus dividing his kingdom be-*»» bit too Cotys and his brother RhascuporisVeil. Pat. H. 98). Again, after the mur-■f"' Cetye by Rhascuporis, Tiberius partitioned theOsjtia between the children of Cotys and Rhoe-*£^- fa. mo of Rhascuporis, at the same time ap-P**t » Human, Trebellienus Rufus, as guardian''a* truer, who were not of age (Tac. Ann. ii.C ti. 30). But, in spite of their subjection, the■it! / the Odrysians was not subdued. Two years'tat event just recorded, they rose, in conjunc-vub tie Coeletae, against the Romans, as well■at their own king Rhoematalces, whom theyv*d a Pbdlippepolia. This rebellion, which wastiia by leaders of little distinction, and con-el wnhont concert, was soon quelled by P. Vel-(Tat .1m. in. 39). A more formidable onep P** A.D. 26, which Tacitus ascribes to the■pas of the Thracian tribes to supply thec may with recruits, as well as to the native? if the people. It occasioned the Romansarable, arid I'oppaeus Sabinus was rewardedW l»> triumphal insignia for his services in aup-irs(/l iv. 46—51). At length, under thetf Vespasian, the Odrysians were finally de-•a <l their isdependence, and incorporated with'~ ..f the Ionian empire (Suet. ». Cuonp. vii. 19). IS* tnosdiag sketch those circumstances onlyleierteu which illustrate the history of thea people, without entering into the-J el their monarchs. The following** "r '"he dynasty; an account of the different■wis oawpoM it will be found in the Diet, of"«f Mjthol under the respective heads. 1.I Siuicrs. 3. Seutbea I. 4. Medocusw) with Maesades. 5. Seuthes II. 6.Cernbkeptea, with Amadocus and Be- I l Swathe* 111 9. Cotys II. 10. Cotys II Sadalea. 12. Cotys IV. 13. Rhoema-!■ 14 Cetvj V. and Rhascuporis. 15. Rhoe- l 16! Cotys VI. "Oea of the Odrysians partook of that«d ieroaty which was common to all theJttes, and which made their name a by- word among the Greeks and Romans; but the horriblepicture drawn of them by Ammianus Marccllinus(xxvii. 4. § 9) is probably overcharged. Like mostother barbarous nations of the north, they were ad­dicted to intoxication, and their lung drinking boutswere enlivened by warlike dances performed to awild and barbarous music. (Xen. Anab. vii. 3. § 32.)Hence it is characteristic that it was considered amark of the highest distinction to be a table com­panion of the king's; but whoever enjoyed this honourwas expected not only to drink to the king, but alsoto make him a present {lb. 16, seq.) Among such ■people,we are not surprised to find thatDionysus seemsto have been the deity most worshipped. They hada custom of buying their wives from their parents,which Herodotus (v. 6) represents as prevailingamong all the Thracian tribes. [T. H. D.l ODRYSUS. [Hadrianopolis.] ODYSSEIA fOStWfia, Strab.iii. pp. 149, 157;'OSwo-fii, Steph. B. s. r.), a town of Hispania Bae-tica, lying N. of Abdera, and, according to tradition,built by Ulysses, together with a temple to Athene.By Sollnus (c. 23) and others it has been absurdlyidentified with Olisipo (Lisbon); but its site, and evenits existence, are altogether uncertain. [T. H. D.] OEA (Pomp. Mela, i. 7. § 5; Oeensis civita-,Plin. v. 4; Tac. Hint iv. 50; Solin. 27; Amm.Marc, xxviii. 6; 'Eiuo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 12), a town inthe district of the Syrtes, which, with LeptisMagna, and Sabrata, formed the African Tripolis.Although there had probably been an old Phoeni­cian factory here, yet, from the silence of Scylaxand Strabo, the foundation of the Roman colony(" Oeea colonia," Itin. Anton.) must be assigned tothe middle of the first century after Christ. Itflourished under the Romans until the fourth cen­tury, when it was greatly injured by the LibyanAusuriani. (Amm. Marc. I. c.) At the Saraceninvasion it would seem that a new town sprung upon the ruins of Oea, which assumed the Roman nameof the district — the modern Tripoli; Trablis, theMoorish name of the town, is merely the same wordarticulated through the medium of Arab pronuncia­tion. At Tripoli there is a very perfect marble tri­umphal arch dedicated to M. Aurelius Antoninus andL. Aurelius Verus, which will be found beautifullyfigured in Captain Lyons' Travels in JV. Africa, p.18. Many other Roman remains have been foundhere, especially glass urns, some of which have beensent to England. For some time it was thought that a coin of An­toninus, with the "epigraph" col- Ave ock.,was to be referred to this town. (Eckliel, vol. iV.p. 131.) Its right to claim this is now contested.(Duchalais, Restitution a Olbasa de Pisidie, a Jeru­salem et aux Contrees Oce. de la Haute Asie de troisifonnaies Coloniales attributes a Ocea, Revue Nu-mismatique, 1849, pp. 97—103; Beechcy, Exped.to the Coast of Africa, pp. 24—32; Barth, Wander-ungm, pp. 294, 295, 391.) [E. B. J.] OEA (Ola, O'tn). 1. A town in Aegina. [Vol.L p. 34, a.] 2. A town in Thera. [Tiieka]. OEANTHEIA or OEANTHE (OMrttto, Hel-lanic. ap. Steph. B., Polyb., Paus.; Oiivfrn, Hecatae.ap. Steph. B., Plin. iv. 3. 8. 4; Eoai-elj, Scylax, p.14; EuayBia, Ptol. iii. 15. § 3: Eth. OiaKfleiir:Galaxidhi), an important town of the Locri Ozolae,situated at the western entrance of the Crissaeangulf. Polybius says that it is opposite to Aegeiiain Achaia (iv. 57, comp. v. 17), which agrees with