OCR Output 312 [book viii. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the multitude made no answer to what hesaid, Elijah desired, that for a trial of the Sower ot the strange gods, and of their ownrod, he, who was his only prophet, whilethey had four hundred, might take a heifer,and kill it, as a sacrifice, and lay it on piecesof wood, and not kindle any fire; and thatthey should do the same things, and callupon their own gods to set* the wood onfire: for if that were done, they wouldthence learn the nature of the true God.fThis proposal pleased the people. So Elijahbade the prophets choose out a heifer first,and kill it, and to call on their gods. Butwhen there appeared no effect of the prayer,or invocation of the prophets upon their sa­crifice, Elijah derided them, and bade themcall upon their gods with a loud voice; forthey might either be on a journey, or asleep.And when these prophets had done so frommorning till noon, and cutJ themselves withswords and lances,|| according to the customof their country, and he was about to offerhis sacrifice, he bade the prophets go away,but desired the people to come near and ob­serve what he did, lest he should privatelyhide fire among the pieces of wood. Soupon the approach of the multitude, hetook twelve stones, one for each tribe of thepeople of the Hebrews; and built an altarwith them, and dug a very deep trench.And when he had laid the pieces of woodupon the altar, and upon them had laid thepieces of the sacrifice, he ordered them tofill four barrels of the water of the fountain, and to pour it upon the altar, till it ran overit; and till the trench was filled with thewater poured into it. When he had donethis, he began to pray to God, and to intreathim to manifest his power to a people thathad been in an error a long time. Uponwhich words a fire came on a sudden fromheaven in the sight of the multitude, andfell upon the altar, and consumed the sacri­fice, till the very water was set on fire, andthe place was become dry. Now when the Israelites saw this, they felldown upon the ground, and worshipped oneGod, and called him the only great and theonly true God: but they called the othersmere names, framed by the wild opinions ofmen. So they caught their prophets; and,at the command of Elijah, slew them. Elijahalso said to the king, that he should go todinner, without any farther concern; for thatin a little time he would see God send themrain. Accordingly Ahab went his way; butElijah went up to the highest top of MountCarmel, and sat down upon the ground, andleaned his head upon his knees; and badehis servant go up to a certain elevatedplace, and look towards the sea: and whenhe should see a cloud rise any where, heshould give him notice of it; for till thattime the air had been clear. When the ser­vant had gone up, and had said many timesthat he saw nothing; at the seventh time ofhis going up he said, that he saw a smallblack thing in the sky, not larger than aman's foot. When Elijah heard that, he * This was the ancient way of God's declaring himselfpleased with sacrifices. See Gen. xv. 17. t This is not the first time wherein God had declaredhis approbation of his worshippers, by sending down fireto consume the sacrifices, Lev. ix. 24, and Judges vi. 21.and though perhaps it may be possible for evil spirits, whomay have great knowledge how to manage meteors andexhalations to their purposes, to make fire descend fromthe clouds; yet, since they can do nothing without adivine permission, it is absurd to think, that in a matterof competition between him and false gods, he shouldgive evil spirits any license to rival him in his miracles.he Clerc's Commentary. B. I Mr. Spanheim takes notice here, that in the worshipof Mithra, the god of the Persians, the priests cut them­selves in the same manner as did these priests in theirinvocations of Baal, the god of the Phoenicians. || A strange method one would think to obtain the fa­vour of their gods! And yet, if we look into antiquity weshall find, that nothing was more common in the religiousrites of several nations than this barbarous custom. To this purpose we may observe, that (as Plutarch, De Su-perstitione, tells us) the priests of Bellona, when they sa­crificed to that goddess, were wont to besmear the victimwith their own blood; but the Persian Magi (accordingto Herodotus, lib. vii. c. 191.) used to appease tempests,and allay the winds, by making incisions in their flesh;that they who carried about the Syrian goddess, (as Apu-leius, lib. viii. relates,) among other mad pranks, were,every now and then, cutting and slashing themselveswith knives, till the blood gushed out: and that even tothis day some modern travellers tell us, that in Turkey,Persia, and several parts of the Indies, there are a kind offanatics, who think they do a very meritorious thing, andwhat is highly acceptable to the Deity, in cutting andmangling their own flesh. "Dii autum nullo debent colligenere" (says Seneca, as he is quoted by St. Austin De Civ.Dei. vi. c. 10.) " si et hoc volunt. Tantus est perturbataementis, et sedius suis pulsae furor, ut sic dii placentur,quemadtnodum ne homines quidem saeviunt teterrimi, etin fabulas traditae crudelitatis," &c. Calmet's and LeCUrc1} Commentaries. B.