OCR Output WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. the temple, which was within that valley, was itself encompas­sed with a very strong wall, insomuch that if the city weretaken, the temple would be a second place of refuge for the ene­my to retire to. .. .' 2. Now, as he was long in deliberating about this matter, asedition arose among the people within the city ; Aristobulus'sparty being willing to fight, and to set their king at liberty,while the party of Hyrcanus were for opening the gates to Pom-pey ; and the dread people were in, occasioned these last to bea very numerous party, when they looked upon the excellentorder the Roman soldiers were in. So Aristobulus's party wasworsted, and retired into the temple, and cut off the communi­cation between the temple and the city, by breaking down thebridge that joined them together, and prepared to make an op­position to the utmost; but as the others had received the Ro­mans into the city, and had delivered up the palace to him, Pom-pey sent Piso, one of his great officers, into that palace with anarmy, who distributed a garrison about the city, because he couldnot^ persuade any one of those that had fled to the temple, tocome to terms of accommodation ; he then disposed all thingsthat were round about them so as might favour their attacks, ashaving Hyrcanus's party very ready to afford them both counseland assistance. 3. But Pompey himself filled up the ditch that was on thenorth side of the temple, and the entire valley also, the army it­self being obliged to carry the materials for that purpose. Andindeed it was an hard thing to fill up that valley by reason of itsimmense depth, especially as the Jews used all the means pos­sible to repel them from their superior station : nor had the Ro­mans succeeded in their endeavours, had not Pompey taken no­tice of the seventh days on which the Jews abstain from all sortsof work on a religious account, and raised his bank, but restrain­ed his soldiers from fighting on those days; for the Jews onlyacted defensively on Sabbath days. But as soon as Pompey hadfilled up the valley, he erected high towers upon the bank, andbrought those engines which they had fetched from Tyre, near tothe wall, and tried to batter it down ; and the slingers of stonesbeat ofFthose that stood above them, and drove them away : butthe towers on this side of the city made very great resistance, andwere indeed extraordinary both for largeness and magnificence. 4. Now, here it was that upon the many hardships which theRomans underwent, Pompey could not but admire not only atthe other instances of the Jews fortitude, but especially that theydid not at all intermit their religious services, even when theywere encompassed with darts on all sides ; for, as if the city were