OCR Output 404 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book If. they came sixty furlongs out of Jerusalem, and congratulatedboth Agrippa and Neopolitanus ; but the wives of those thathad been slain, came running first of all and lamenting. Thepeople also, when they hard their mourning, fell into lamenta­tions also, and besought Agrippa to assist them: thej also criedout to Neopolitanus, and complained of them any miseries theyhad endured under Florus, and they shewed them, when theywere come into the city, how the market-place was made deso­late, and the houses plundered. They then pursuaded Neopoli­tanus, by the means of Agrippa, that he would walk roundthe city, with one only servant, as far as Siloam, that he mightinform himself that the Jews submmited to all the rest of the Ro­mans, and were only displeased at Florus, by reason of his ex­ceeding barbarity to them. So he walked round, and had suf­ficient experience of the good temper the people were in, andthen went up to the temple, where he called the multitude to­gether, and highly commended them for their fidelity to theRomans, and earnestly exhorted them to keep the peace, andhaving performed such parts of divine worship at the temple ashe was allowed to do, he returned to Cestius. 3. But as for the multitude of the Jews, they addressed them­selves to the king, and to the high-priests, and desired they mighthave leave to send ambassadors to Nero against Florus, and notby their silence afford a suspicion that they had been the occa­sions of such great slaughters as had been made, and were dis­posed to revolt, alleging, that they should seem to have been thefirst beginners of the war, if they did not prevent the report byshewing who it was that began it; and it appeared openly thatthey would not be queit, if any body should hinder them fromsending such an ambassage. But Agrippa, although he thoughtit too dangerous a thing for them to appoint men to go as theaccusers of Florus, yet did he not think it fit for him to over­look them, as they were in a disposition for war. He thereforecalled the multitude together into a large gallery, and placedhis sister Bernice in the house of the Asamoneans, that she mightbe seen by them, (which house was over the gallery, at Che pas­sage to the upper city, where the bridge joined the temple tothe gallery), and spake to them as follows : 4. * " Had I perceived that you were all zealously disposed " to * In this speech of King Agrippa we have an authentic account of the extentand strength of the Roman empire when the Jewish war began. And this speech. 'with other circumstances in Josephus, demonstrate how wise, and how great a perrson Agrippa was, and why Josephus elsewhere calls him QxuiAxffiwr&'roSi a " most" wonderful" or " admirable man," Contr. Ap. I. 9, He is the same Agrippawho said to Paul, «' Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian," Acts zxvi, jg.