OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 313 the country; and the guard, which they had left, wasvery insufficient; but he was apprehensive that his menwere too much fatigued by their hasty march. TheGauls, recalled from the fields by the shouts of theirparty, returned to the camp without seizing the bootywithin their reach, and, next day, marched out to offerbattle; the Roman did not decline the combat, but hadscarcely time to make the necessary dispositions, sorapidly did the enemy advance to the fight. The rightbrigade (for he had the troops of the allies dividedinto brigades) was placed in the first line, the two Ro­man legions in reserve. Marcus Furius was at thehead of the right brigade, Marcus Caecilius of the le­gions, and Lucius Valerius Flaccus of the cavalry:these were all lieutenants-general. Two other lieute­nants-general, Cneius Laetorius and Publius Titinnius,the pretor kept near himself, that, with their assistance,he might observe, and take proper measures againstany sudden attack. At first, the Gauls, bending theirwhole force to one point, were in hopes of being ableto overwhelm, and trample under foot, the right brigade,which was in the van; but not succeeding, they en­deavored to turn round the flanks, and to surroundtheir enemy's line, which, considering the multitudeof their forces, and the small number of the others,seemed easy to be done. On observing this, the pre­tor, in order to extend his own line, brought up thetwo legions from the reserve, and placed them on theright and left of the brigade which was engaged in thevan; vowing a temple to J.upiter, if he should on that dayprove victorious. To Lucius Valerius he gave ordersto make the horsemen of the two legions on one flank,and the cavalry of the allies on the other, charge thewings of the enemy, and not suffer them to come roundto his rear. At the same time, observing that the centreof their line was weakened, from having extended thewings, be directed his men to make an attack there inclose order, and to break through their ranks. Thewings were routed by the cavalry, and, at the sametime, the centre by the foot. Being worsted in all