OCR Output 70 ROMAN EMPIRE. asserted, as they now assert, their indefeasible right tothe title, the rank, and the prerogatives, of the patriarchof Antioch: under the milder yoke of the infidels, theyreside about a league from Merdin, in the pleasant mo­nastery of Zapharan, which they have embellished withcells, aqueducts, and plantations. The secondary, thoughhonourable, place is filled by the maphrian, who, in hisstation at Mosul itself, defies the Nestorian Catholic,with whom he contests the supremacy of the east. Un­der the patriarch and the maphrian, one hundred andfifty archbishops and bishops have been counted in thedifferent ages of the Jacobite church; but the order ofthe hierarchy is relaxed or dissolved, and the greaterpart of their diocesses is confined to the neighbourhoodof the Euphrates and the Tigris. The cities of Aleppoand Amida, which are often visited by the patriarch,contain some wealthy merchants and industrious me­chanics, but the multitude derive their scanty sustenancefrom their daily labour: and poverty, as well as super­stition, may impose their excessive fasts,—five annuallents, during which both the clergy and laity abstainnot only from flesh or eggs, but even from the taste ofwine, of oil, and of fish. Their present numbers are es­teemed from fifty to fourscore thousand souls, the rem-nantofa populous church, which has gradually decreasedundertheoppression of twelve centuries. Yetin that longperiod, some strangers of merit have been convertedto the Monophysite faith, and a Jew was the fatherof Abulpharagius,p primate of the east, so truly eminentboth in his life and death. In his life, he was an elegantwriter of the Syriac and Arabic tongues, a poet, physi­cian, and historian, a subtle philosopher, and a mode­rate divine. In his death, his funeral was attended byhis rival the Nestorian patriarch, with a train of Greeks P The account of his person and writings is perhaps the most curious article inthe Bibliotheca of Assemannus. (torn. 2. p. 244—321, under the name of Grego-rius Bar-Hebraus.) La Crote (Christianiime d'Ethiope, p. 53—63.) ridicules theprejudice of the Spaniards against the Jewish blood, which secretly defiles theirchurch and state.