OCR Output 436 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. had for long been common and intrigues with marriedwomen began to become so; but an amour with a Vestalvirgin was as piquant as the intrigues with nuns and thecloister-adventures in the world of the Decamerone. The114. scandalous affair of 640 seq. is well known, in which threeVestals, daughters of the noblest families, and their para­mours, young men likewise of the best houses, were broughtto trial for unchastity first before the pontifical college,and then, when it sought to hush up the matter, before anextraordinary court instituted by special decree of thepeople, and were all condemned to death. Such scandals, itis true, sedate people could not approve; but there was noobjection to men discussing the folly of positive religion intheir familiar circle; the augurs might, when one saw anotherperforming his functions, smile in each other's face withoutdetriment to their religious duties. We learn to lookfavourably on the modest hypocrisy of kindred tendencies,when we compare with it the coarse shamelessness of theRoman priests and Levites. The official religion was quitecandidly treated as a hollow framework now serviceable onlyfor political machinists; in this respect with its nume­rous recesses and trap-doors it might and did serve eitherparty, as it happened. Most of all certainly the oligarchyrecognized its palladium in the state religion, and particu­larly in the augural discipline; but the opposite partyalso made no resistance in point of principle to an institutewhich had now merely a semblance of life; they regarded it,on the contrary, as a bulwark which might pass from thepossession of the enemy into their own.Oriental In sharp contrast to this ghost of religion which we leiigionsin have just described stand the different foreign worships,.' which this epoch cherished and fostered, and which were at least undeniably possessed of very decided vitality. Theymeet us everywhere, among fashionable ladies and lords aswell as among the circles of the slaves, in the general as inthe trooper, in Italy as in the provinces. It is incredible towhat a height this superstition already reached. When inthe Cimbrian war a Syrian prophetess, M artha, offered tofurnish the senate with ways and means for the vanquishingof the Germans, the senate dismissed her with contempt;nevertheless the Roman ladies and Marius' own wife inparticular despatched her to his head-quarters, where Tjh<3general readily received her and carried her about with