OCR Output B. III. YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 265 where most of their own houses were situated, and the har­bour which points towards the forum and the continent. The day following they skirmished a little with their mis­sive weapons, and both parties sent out detachments into thefields, to invite the concurrence of the slaves, upon a promiseof their freedom. A majority of slaves came in to the assist­ance of the people, and the other party got eight hundredauxiliaries from the continent. After one day's respite they come again to blows. Thepeople get the better now, by the advantage of their strongposts and their numbers. The women with notable bold­ness assisted in the combat, by throwing tiles from the tops•f the houses, and sustaining the tumult beyond their sex.About the close of the evening, the few were forced to fly,and then apprehensive, lest the people should rush down up­on and so at a shout seize the dock and put them to thesword, in order to stop their passage, they set fire to thehouses all round the forum and to such as were adjacent,sparing neither their own nor those of their enemies. Thelarge effects of the merchants were consumed in the flames,and the whole city was in danger of being reduced to ashes,had a gale of wind arose to drive the flame that way.—-This put a stop to the contest, and brought on a cessation,when both sides applied themselves to strict guard forthe night. The Corinthian vessel, after this victory on theside of the people, stole privately away; and many of theauxiliaries, who crept off unperceived, repassed to the oppo­site shore. The day following, Nicostratus, the son of Diotrephes,who commanded the Athenian squadron, comes up to theirassistance with his twelve sail from Naupactus and five hun­dred heavy-armed Messenians. He forthwith negotiated anaccommodation, and persuades them to make up the affairwith one another, by instantly condemning the ten princi­pal authors of the sedition (who immediately fled), and per­mitting all others to continue in the city, upon articles