OCR Output n6 THE DECLINE AND FALL joy and duty; that the important place of Ravenna had surrenderedwithout resistance, and that the Hadriatic fleet was in the hands ofthe conqueror. The enemy was now within two hundred and fiftymiles of Rome; and every moment diminished the narrow span oflife and empire allotted to Julian. Distress of pje attempted, however, to prevent, or at least to Julian. r ruin. He implored the venal faith of the Prætorians, filled thecity with unavailing preparations for war, drew lines round thesuburbs, and even strengthened the fortifications of the palace;as if those last intrenchments could be defended without hope ofrelief against a victorious invader. Fear and shame prevented theguards from deserting his standard ■, but they trembled at the nameof the Pannonian legions, commanded by an experienced general,and accustomed to vanquish the barbarians on the frozen DanubeThey quitted, with a sigh, the pleasures of the baths and theatres*to put on arms, whose use they had almost forgotten, and beneaththe weight of which they were oppressed. The unpractised elephants,whose uncouth appearance, it was hoped, would strike terror intothe army of the north, threw their unskilful riders; and the awk­ward evolutions of the marines, drawn from the fleet of Miscnum,were an object of ridicule to the populace; whilst the senate enjoyed,with secret pleasure, the distress and weakness of the usurper ".His uncertain Every motion of Julian betrayed his trembling perplexity. Heinsisted that Severus should be declared a public enemy by the se­nate. He intreated that the Pannonian general might be associatedto the empire. He sent public ambassadors of consular rank to ne_gociate with his rival; he dispatched private assassins to take awayhis life. He designed that the Vestal virgins, and all the col!egesof priests, in their sacerdotal habits, and bearing before them thesacred pledges of the Roman religion, mould advance, in solemnprocession, to meet the Pannonian legions ; and, at the fame time, he conduct.