OCR Output 120 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX. they sat at random, men and women together, and free-men weremixed with the slaves. So Caius came out in a solemn manner,and offered sacrifice to Augustus Ciesar, in whose honour in­deed these shews were celebrated. Now it happened, upon thefall of a certain priest, that the garment of Asprenas, a' senator,was filled with blood, which made Caius laugh, although thiswas an evident omen to Asprenas, for he was slain at the sametime with Caius. It is also related, that Caius was that day,contrary to his usual custom, so very affable and good-naturedin his conversation, that every one of those that were presentwere astonished at it. After the sacrifice was over, Caius be­took himself to see the shews, and sat down for that purpose, as,did also the principal of his friends sit near him. Now the parts.of the theatre were so fastened together, as it used to be everyyear, in the manner following : It had two doors, the one doorled to the open air, the other was for going into, or going outof the cloisters, that those within the theatre might not be there­by disturbed ; but out of one gallery there went an inward pas­sage, partly into partitions also, which led into another gallery,to give room to the combatants, and to the musicians to go outas occasion served. When the multitude were set down, andCherea, with the other tribunes also, were set down also, andthe right corner of the theatre was allotted to Caesar, one Va-tinius, a senator, commander of the pretorian band, asked ofCluvius, one that sat by him, and was of consular dignity alsQj" Whether he had heard any thing of news or not ?" but topk:care that nobody should hear what he said ; and when Cluvius'replied, That " he had heard no news," " Know then," saidVatinius, " that the game of the slaughter of tyrants is to b,e" played this day." But Cluvius replied, " O brave comrade r.lf hold thy peace, lest some other of the Achaians hear thy" tale." And, as there was abundance of autumnal frititthrown among the spectators, and a great number of birds, thatwere of great value to such as possessed them, on account oftheir rareness, Caius was pleased with the birds fighting forthe fruits, and with the violence wherewith the spectators seizedupon them ; and here he perceived two prodigies that happenedthere ; for an actor was introduced, by whom a leader of rob­bers was crucified, and the pantomime brought in a play calledCinyras, wherein he himself was to be slain, as well as- hisdaughter Myrrha, and wherein a great deal of fictitious bloodwas shed, both about him that was crucified, and also aboutCinyras. It is also confessed, that this was the same day where­in Pausanias, a friend of Philip, the son of Amyntas, who wasking of Macedonia, slew him, as he was entering into the theatre. And'