OCR Output MUTINA. MUZA. 379 Be dry and it* territory had began to feel severelyu* niirni;iei that were pressing upon the whole oflin fertile sad once flourishing tract of country.h a. D. 377, the remains of the conquered tribe ofua Taifali were settled, by order of the emperorGlomus, in the country around Mutina, Regium,is Puma (Amm. Marc, xxxi. 9. § 4)—a plainckauua thai the population was already deficient;i*J St. Ambrose, writing not long after the same<». describes Mutina, Kegium, and the other cities•tag the Aeniilian Way, as in a state of ruin andtait. while their territories were uncultivated andfeitt (Ambroa. Ep. 39.) The same district•taa Eijkml severely in A.D. 452, from the ravagesafinjhvwho hud waste all the cities of Aemilia«t «re and sword. {Hut. MltctU. xv. p. 549.)L-v. however, survived all these calamities, from• iii, nevertheless, Mutina appears to have sufferedrvf arrereJy than its neighbours. Under theIjraard line*, it became the frontier city of theircatnaines towards the Exarchate; and though takentr t* Greek emperor Mauricias in 590, it was«n;3 annexed by Agilulphos to the Lombard king-vs <i Italy. (Muratori, Antu/. Ital. vol. i. p. 63.)t: tin period it fell into a state of great decay.t bacomn, who mentions Bononla, Parma, andI-.hub as wealthy and flourishing cities, does noti the mine of Mutina (II Ut. Lang. ii. 18); ■ witer of the 10th century draws a lament-it'' pel me of the condition to which it was re-OtTtL The numerous streams which irrigated its-—:tory having been then neglected, inundated thes; and the site of the cityin great part a mere morass, in which: * raina that attested its ancient grandeur, weread boned in the mud and water. (Mural. Ant.■i a. jfL 154, 155.)At a later period of the middle ages, Modenato prosperity, and became, as it has evera flourishing and opulent city,f troth of the description above cited is con-t?»d bv the fart, that the remains of the ancientar» ar» wholly boried under the accumulations ofuvatl aad on which the buildings of the modern"are fcxmded, and are only brought to light from■»t» low by excavations. (Murat. I c.) Largei of the raius were also employed at variousstruction of the cathedral andI no remains of ancient buildingsr extant. Bat a valuable collection of sar-and inscriptions, discovered at variousea the site of the modern city, is preservede tie masetnn. These have been fully illustratedm Cxrwiorj in his Antichi Marmi Afotlcneri (8vo.a*ai»a», 1828). in which work the facts known— ■ 11 n the ancient history of the city are well■■■Eta !*fetber. *aW-»u is situated between the river Secchia,>4a w icrwt aboat 3 miles to the W. of the city,■at tav Pmmaro, about the same distance on the K. taaer is enqoestionabry the ancient Scultkhna,1 ■»■*• *toch it still retains in the upper part of its"■••a- The Seeckin is probably the Gabellns of'tay. tnt seem* to have been also known in ancient■aaal ts the Sects; for the Jerusalem Itinerary■Mraa a statiua called Pons Secies, 5 miles fromE i" a. wh»rt the Aeniilian Way crossed this river.*■*• H<t. f. 616.) The Apennines begin to rise■>"■■ 19 nuW to the S. of the city; and the ancient■■"■*? Vatira seems to have included a con-. ai Pliny notices a prodigy which occurred "in agro Mutinensi,*when two mountains were dashed against oneanother with great violence, so that they appearedto recoil again from the shock. (Plin. ii. 83. s. 85.)This phenomenon, which occurred in b. c. 91was doubtless the result of an earthquake, and not;as has been sometimes supposed, of a volcanic out­break. [E. H. B.] MUTUSCAE. [Tkkbula Mutusca.] MUTYCA [Mo-mjA.] MUZA (Mofo, Arriun; Mowra and Moufa iniro-plov, Ptol.), an important mercantile town on theArabian coast of the lied Sea, not far north of theStraits of Sab-el-Mandeb, in the country of Elisari:placed by Ptolemy in long. 74° 30', lat. 14°; or 30'west, and 2° north of Ocelis ("OktiAis i)uropiov)close to the straits. (Ptol. vii. 15. p. 152.) He statesthat its longest day is 12} hours, that it is 1' east ofAlexandria, and within the tropics (viii. Tab. vi. Asiae,p. 241); Pliny (vi. 23) names Musa as the thirdport of Arabia Felix "quern Indica navigatio non petit,nec nisi turis odorumque Arabicorum mercatores."The author of the J'eriphit frequently alludes to it,and gives a full account of it and its trade. He de­scribes it as situated in the southernmost gulf of thiscoast, a regular mart; inhabited altogether by Arabmariners and merchants, distant about 12,000 sta­dia from Berenice to the south, and 300 northof the straits. (Vincer.t, Ptriplm, p. 296. n. 100:Gosselin, liicherches, <fc. tome ii. pp. 265, 266.)It was not only an emporium of Indian merchan­dise—a manifest contradiction of Pliny's state­ment already cited—but had an export trade of itsown. It was distant three days' journey from thecity of Save (Sat!?;), which was situated inland, inthe country of Maphoritis. It had no proper harbour,but a goal roadstead, and a sandy anchorage. Itsprincipal import trade was in fine and common pur*pie cloth; Arab dresses with sleeves—probably thekemu — some plain and common, others embroideredwith needlework and in gold; saffron; an aroma­tic plant, named cyperus (iciJirfpoj); fine linen;long robes—the abit»; quilts; striped girdles ; per­fumes of a middling quality; specie in abundance;and smnll quantities of wine and grain, for thecountry grew but little wheat, and more wine. Tothe king and tyrant were given horses, pack-mules ,vessels of silver and brass, and costly raiment Be­sides the above named articles of merchandise, whichwere chiefly supplied to its markets from Adule, onthe opposite coast, the great emporium of Africanproduce [Adule], Musa exported a precious myrrhcf native growth, an aromatic gum, which tli6 authornames otojtH) aSuppivma. and a white marble oralabaster (AifySos). (Arrian, Peripl. ap. Hudson.Ceogr. Min. vol. i. pp. 13, 14.) Vessels from thisport visited all the principal mercantile towns of thesouth coast of Arabia. Bochart's identification of thisMusa with the Mesha mentioned by Moses, as oneextreme point of the Joktanite Arabs,—Sephar beingthe other (Gen. x. 30),—is thought by Mr. Forstcrto be untenable, on account of the narrow limits towhich it would confine this large and importantrace; for the site of Sephar is clearly ascertained.[Mafhoiutae; Saphokitak.] (fltogr.'of Arabia,vol. i. pp. 93, 94.) M. Gosselin (liicbercbet, d-c.tome ii. p. 89) .worts that this once most cele­brated and frequented port of Yemen is now morethan six leagues from the sen, and is replaced as a portby il/oMa,the foundation of which dates back no morethan 400 years (Niebuhr, Voyage en Arable,