OCR Output an. 453.] 411 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now while his friends were talking one toanother, Esther's eunuchs hastened Hainanaway, to come to supper. But one of the eu­nuchs, named Sabuchadas, saw the gallowsthat was fixed in Haman's house, and inquiredof one of his servants for what purpose theyhad prepared it? So he knew that it was forthe queen's uncle: because Haman was aboutto petition the king that he might be punished.But at present he held his peace. Now whenthe king, with Haman, were at the banquet,he desired the queen to tell him what giftshe desired to obtain; and assured her, thatshe should have whatsoever she had a mindto. She then lamented the danger her peo­ple were in; and said, that she and her nationwere given up to be destroyed: and that she,on that account, made this petition. Thatshe would not have troubled him if he hadonly given order that they should be sold intoservitude: for such a misfortune would nothave been intolerable. But she desired thatthey might be delivered from such a destruc­tion. And when the king inquired of herwho was the author of this misery to them?she only accused Haman: and convicted him,that he had been the wicked instrument ofthis; and had formed this plot against them.When the king was hereupon in disorder,and was gone hastily out of the banquet intothe gardens, Haman began to intercede withEsther; and to beseech her to forgive him,as to what he had offended; for he perceivedthat he was in a very bad case. And as hehad fallen upon the queen's bed,* and wasmaking supplication to her, the king camein: and being still more provoked at what hesaw, "O thou wretch!" said he, "thou vilestof all mankind! dost thou aim to force mywife?" And when Haman was astonished atthis, and not able to speak one word more,Sabuchadas the eunuch came in, and accusedHaman; and said, he found a gallows fiftycubits high at his house prepared for Mor-decai: for that the servant told him so much,upon his inquiry, when he was sent to him tocall him to supper. When the king heard this, he determined that Haman should bepunished after no other manner than thatwhich had been devised by him againstMordecai. So he gave order immediately,that he should be hung upon that gallows,and be put to death after that manner.fAnd from hence I cannot forbear to admireGod; and to learn hence his wisdom and hisjustice: and not only in punishing the wick­edness of Haman, but in so disposing it, thathe should undergo the very same punish­ment which he had contrived for another.As also because thereby he teaches othersthis lesson, that what mischiefs any one pre­pares against another, he, without knowingof it, first contrives it against himself. Wherefore Haman, who had immoderatelyabused the honour he had from the king, wasdestroyed after this manner: and the kinggranted his estate to the queen. He alsocalled for Mordacai, (for Esther had informedhim that she was related to him:) and gavehim that ring which he had before given toHaman. The queen also gave Haman's es­tate to Mordecai; and prayed the king to de­liver the nation of the Jews from the fear ofdeath; and shewed him what had been writ­ten over all the country by Haman, the son ofAmedatha. For that if her country weredestroyed, and her countrymen were to perishshe could not bear to live any longer. So theking promised that he would not do any thingthat should be disagreeable to her, nor con­tradict what she desired: but he bade herwrite what she pleased about the Jews, in theking's name, and seal it with his seal; andsend it to all his kingdom; for that those whoread epistles whose authority was secured byhaving the king's seal to them, would no waycontradict what was written therein. So hecommanded the king's scribes to be sent for,and to write to the nations, on the Jews' be­half: and to his lieutenants, and governors,that were over his hundred and twenty-sevenprovinces, from India to Ethiopia. Now thecontents of the epistle were these: {"Thegreat king Artaxerxes to our rulers, and those * It was a custom of the Persians, as well as other na­tions, to sit, or rather to lie upon beds, when they eat ordrank; and therefore, when Haman fell down as a suppli­cant at the feet of Esther, and, as the manner was amongthe Greeks and Romans, and not improbably among thePersians, embraced her knees, the king might pretend that voL. I.—NOS. 35 & 36. he was offering violence to the queen's chastity. Not thathe believed that this was his intention, but, in his furiouspassion, he turned every thing to the worst sense, and madeuse of it to aggravate his crime. Patrick's Commentary. B. t Esther vii. 10. X The true reason why king Artaxerxes did not here 3Y