OCR Output 142 DECLINE AND 'frAtfL [CHAP. XL1. that he might sooner compel His prisoner to embrace aresolution advantageous to the Romans, but salutary tdhimself. The obstinacy of Gelimer at length yielded toreason and necessity; the solemn assurances of Safetyand honourable treatment were ratified in the emperor sname, by the ambassador of Belisarius; and the king ofthe Vandals descended from ^he friOuntain. The firstpublic interview was in one of the suburbs of Carthage,and when the royal captive accosted his conqueror, 'heburst into a fit of laughter. The crowd might naturallybelieve, that extreme grief had deprived Gelimer off nissenses; but in this mournful State, unseasonable mirthinsinuated to more intelligent observers, that the vainand transitory scenes of human greatness are unworthyof a serious thought.11HomYof Their contempt was soon justified by a new exampleBdisarius. of a vulgar truth; that flattery adheres to power, andAutumn. ' envy to superior merit. The chiefs of the Roman armypresumed to think themselves the rivajs of a hero. Theirprivate dispatches maliciously affirmed,:that the conque­ror of Africa, strong in his reputation and the publiclove, conspiredto seat himself on the throne of the Van­dals. Justinian listened with tOo patient an ear; andhis silence was the result of jealousy rather than of con­fidence. An honourable alternative, of remaining inthe province, or of returning to the capital, was indeed"submitted to'the discretion of Belisarius; but he wiselyconcluded, from intercepted letters, and the knowledgeof his sovereign's temper, that he must either resign hishead, erect his standard, or confound his enemies by hispresence and submission. Innocence and courage de­cided, his choice: his guards, captives, and treasures,were diligently embarked; and so prosperous was thenavigation, that his arrival at Constantinople preceded 11 Herodotus elegantly describes the strange effects of grief in another royal cap­tive, Psammetichus of Kgypt, who wept at the lesser, and was silent at the greatestof his calamities, (lib. 3. c. 14.) Tn the interview of Paulus jEmilius and Perses,Belisarius might study his part: but it is probable that he never read cither Livy brPlutarch; and it is certain that his generosity did not need a tutor.