OCR Output lxxxvi NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER, [151] Mofheim (p. 922—926.), from manyscattered passages of Lactantius and Eusebius hascollected a very just and accurate notion of thisedict; though he sometimes deviates into conjectureand refinement. [152] Many ages afterwards, Edward I. prac­tised, with great success, the fame mode of per­secution against the clergy of England. See Hume'sHistory of England, vol. i. p. 300, last 4W edition. [153] Lactantius only calls him quidam, etsi jionrecte, magno tamen animo, &c. c. 12. Eusebius(1. viii. c. 5.) adorns him with secular honours.Neither have condescended to mention his name;but the Greeks celebrate his memory under that ofJohn. See Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiastiques,torn. v. part ii. p. 320. . [154] Lactantius de M. P.C. 13, 14. Potentiffimiquondam Eunuchi necati, per quos Palatium etipse constabat. Eusebius (1. viii. c. 6.) mentionsthe cruel executions of the eunuchs, Gorgonius andDorotheus, and of Anthimius, bishop of Nico-media; and both those writers, describe in a vaguebut tragical manner, the horrid scenes which wereacted even in the Imperial presence. [155] See Lactantius, Eusebius, and Constantine,ad Cœtum Sanctorum, c, 2;. Eusebius confesseshis ignorance of the cause of the fire. [156] Tillemont, Memoires Ecclesiast. torn. v.part i. p. 43. [157] See the Acta Sincera of Ruynart, p. 353;those of Fcelix of Thibara, or Tibiur, appearmuch less corrupted than in the other editions,which afford a lively specimen of legendary license. [158] See the first book of Optatus of Milevisagainst the Donatists at Paris, 1700. Edit. Dupin.He lived under the reign of Valens. [159^ The ancient monuments, published at theend of Optatus, p. 261, &c. describe, in a very cir­cumstantial manner, the proceedings of the gover­nors in the destruction of churches. They made aminute inventory of the plate, &c. which they foundin them That of the church of Cirta, in Nu-midia, is still extant. It consisted of two chalicesof gold, and six of silver; six urns, one kettle, seven lamps, all likewise of silver; besides a large quantityof brass utensils, and wearing apparel. [160] Lactantius (Institut. Divin. v. 11.) con­fines the calamity to the conucHticulum, with its con­gregation. Eusebius (viii. 11.) extends it to a wholecity, and introduces something yery like a regularsiege. His ancient Latin translator, Rufinus, addsthe important circumstance of the permission givento the inhabitants of retiring from thence. AlPhrygia reached to the confines of Ifauria, it ispoflible that the restless temper of those independentBarbarians may have contributed to this misfortune. [161] Eusebius, 1. viii. c. 6. M. de Valois (withsome probability) thinks that he has discovered theSyrian rebellion in an oration of Libanius; andthat it was a rash attempt of the tribune Eugenius,who with only five hundred men seized Antioch,and might perhaps allure the Christians by thepromise of religious toleration. From Eusebius(1. ix. c.8.) as well as from Moses ofChorene (Hist.Armen. 1. ii. c. 77, &c.) it may be inferred, thatChristianity was already introduced into Armenia. [162] See Mofheim, p. 938; the textof Eusebiusvery plainly shews, that the governors, whose powerswere enlarged, not restrained, by the new laws,could punish with death the most obstinate Chri­stians, as an example to their brethren. [16 ] Athanasius, p. 833, ap. Tillemont, Mem.Ecclesiast. torn. v. part L p. 90. [164] Eusebius, I. viii. c. 13. Lactantius de M.P. c. 15. Dodwell (Dissertat. Cyprian, xi. 75.)represents them as inconsistent with each other.But the former evidently speaks of Constanrius inthe station of Cæsar, and the latter of the sameprince in the rank of Augustus. [16;] Datianus is mentioned in Gruter's Inscrip­tions, as having determined the limits between theterritories of Pax Julia, and those of Ebora, bothcities in the southern part osLusitania. If we recol­lect the neighbourhood of those places to Cape St.Vincent, we may suspect that the celebrated deaconand martyr of that name has been inaccuratelyassigned by Prudentius, &c. to Saragossa, or Va­lentia. See the pompous history of his sufferings,in the Memoires de Tillemont, totn. v. part ii. p.58—85. Some critics are of opinion, that the de­partment