OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 133 aristocracy were in fact perfectly compatible with their ownadvantage, and nothing further was sacrificed by such apolicy than merely the public weal. All those measures which were devised by Gaius Gracchus The domainfor the promotion of the public welfare—the best but, as questionmay readily be conceived, also the most unpopular part of un^er *chis legislation—were allowed by the aristocracy to drop.Nothing was so speedily and so successfully assailed as thenoblest of his projects, viz., the scheme of introducing a legalequality first between the Roman burgesses and Italy, andthereafter between Italy and the provinces, and—inasmuchas the distinction between the merely ruling and consumingand the merely serving and working members of the statewas thus done away—at the same time solving the socialquestion by the most comprehensive and systematic emigra­tion known in history. With all the determination and all thepeevish obstinacy of dotage the restored oligarchy obtrudedthe principle of deceased generations—that Italy ought toremain the ruling land and Rome the ruling city in Italy—afresh on the present. Even in the lifetime of Gracchusthe claims of the Italian allies had been rejected, and thegreat idea of transmarine colonization had been subjected toa very serious attack, which became the immediate cause ofGracchus' fall. After his death the scheme of restoringCarthage was set aside with little difficulty by the govern­ment-party, although the several allotments already dis­tributed there were left to the recipients. It is true thatthey could not prevent a similar settlement of the democraticparty from succeeding at another point: in the course of theconquests beyond the Alps which Marcus Flaccus had begun,the colony of Narbo (Narbonne) was founded there in 63.6, lis.the oldest transmarine burgess-city in the Roman empire,which, in spite of manifold opposition from the government-party and in spite of a proposal directly made by the senateto abolish it, permanently held its ground. But, apart fromthis—in its isolation not very important—exception, thegovernment was uniformly successful in preventing theassignation of land out of Italy. The Italian domain-question was settled in a similarspirit. The Italian colonies of Gaius, especially Capua,were cancelled, and such of them as had already been plantedwere again broken up; that of Tarentum alone was allowedto subsist in the form of the new town of Neptunia placed