OCR Output an. 1064.] 249 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. bade him also to go out of the land, as animpure and accursed wretch; and he thankedGod for depriving him of his kingdom, andcausing him to be punished for what injurieshe had done to his master Saul, and this bythe means of his own son. Now when theywere all provoked against him, and angry athim, and particularly Abishai, who had amind to kill Shimei; David restrained hisanger. "Let us not," said he,* "bring uponourselves another fresh misfortune, to thosewe have already; for truly I have not theleast regard nor concern for this dog thatraves at me; I submit myself to God, bywhose permission this man treats me in sucha wild manner. Nor is it any wonder that Iam obliged to undergo these abuses fromhim; whde I experience the like from animpious son of my own. But perhaps Godwill have some commiseration upon us, if itbe his will to overcome them." So he wenton his way, without troubling himself withShimei, who ran along the other side of themountain, and threw out his abusive languageplentifully. But when David was come toJordan, he allowed those that were with himto refresh themselves, for they were weary.When Absalom, and Ahithophel his coun­sellor were come to Jerusalem, with all thepeople, David's friend Kushai came to them.And when he had worshipped Absalom, hewithal wished that his kingdom might last along time, and continue for all ages: butwhen Absalom said to him, " How comes this,that he who was so intimate a friend of myfather's, and appeared faithful to him in allthings, is not with him now, but hath left him,and is come over to me?" Hushai's answerwas very pertinent: for he said, "We oughtto follow God, and the multitude of thepeople; while these therefore, my lord and master, are with thee, it is fit that I shouldfollow them. For thou hast received thekingdom from God. I will therefore, if thoubelievest me to be thy friend, shew the samefidelity and kindness to thee, which thouknow est 1 have shewn to thy father.f Nor isthere any reason to be in the least dissatisfiedwith the present state of affairs; for thekingdom is not transferred into another, butremains still in the same family, by the son'sreceiving it after his father." This speech Sersuaded Absalom, who before suspected[ushai. And now he called Ahithophel, andconsulted with him what he ought to do. Hepersuaded him to go in unto his father's con­cubines: for he said, "By this action thepeople will believe that thy difference withthy father is irreconcileable, and will thencefight with great alacrity against thy father: forhitherto they are afraid of taking up openenmity against him, out of an expectation thatyou will be reconciled again." AccordinglyAbsalom was prevailed on by this advice, andcommanded his servants to pitch him a tentupon the top of the royal palace, in the sightof the multitude, and he went in and lay withhis father's concubines. Now this came topass, according to the prediction ofJ Nathan,when he prophesied, and signified to him,that his son would rise up in rebellion againsthim. And when Absalom had done what he wasadvised to by Ahithophel, he desired hisadvice in the second place, about the waragainst his father. Now Ahithophel onlyasked him to let him have ten thousandchosen men; and he promised he would slayhis father, and bring the soldiers back againin safety: and he said, that the kingdomwould be then firm to him when David wasdead; but not otherwise. Absalom was * The words of David upon this occasion are, So lethim curse, because the Lord hath said unto him, CurseDavid: Let him alone, let him curse for the Lord hathbidden him; not that God commanded it by his word, forthat severely forbids cursing, Exod. xxii. 28. nor movedhim to it by his Spirit; for neither was that possible, be­cause God tempteth no man, James i. 13. But themeaning is, that the secret providence of God did over­rule and determine him so to do, i. e. God did not put anywickedness into Shimei'a heart, (for he had of himself anheart full of malignity and venom against David,) but onlyleft him to his own wickedness; took away that commonprudence, which would have restrained him from so dan­gerous an action; directed his malice, that it should be exercised against David, rather than any other man; andbrought him into so distressed a condition, that he mightseem a proper object of his scorn and contempt, which isenough to justify the expression, "The Lord hath biddenhim," in the same manner that we read of his commandingthe ravens, 1 Kings xvii. 4. and sometimes inanimatecreatures, Psal. cxlvii. 15, 18. The short is, Davidlooked upon Shimei as an instrument in God's hands, andtherefore took all his abuses patiently, out of a conscious­ness of his sinfulness, and a reverence to that Deity whohad brought him so low, as to deserve the insults of thevile Benjamite. Pool's Annotations. B. t 2 Sam. xvi. 19. J 2 Sam. xii. 11.