OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 335 that after several months' warfare there was still on handnearly £600,000 (14,000 pounds of gold and 6000 pounds ofsilver). In the considerable portion of Italy, which stillvoluntarily or under compulsion adhered to the revolution,warlike preparations were prosecuted with vigour. Newly-formed divisions of some strength came from Etruria, wherethe communities of new-burgesses were very numerous, andfrom the region of the Po. The veterans of Marius ingreat numbers ranged themselves under the standards atthe call of his son. But nowhere were preparations madefor the struggle against Sulla with such eagerness as in theinsurgent Samnium and some districts of Lucania. It wasowing to anything but devotion towards the revolutionaryItoman government, that numerous contingents from theOscan districts reinforced their armies; but it was wellunderstood there that an oligarchy restored by Sulla wouldnot acquiesce in the de facto independence of these lands asthe lax Cinnan government had now done; and therefore theprimitive rivalry between the Sabellians and the Latins wasroused afresh in the struggle against Sulla. For Samniumand Latium this war was as much a national struggle as thewars of the fifth century; they strove not for a greater orless amount of political rights, but for the purpose of ap­peasing long-suppressed hate by the annihilation of theirantagonists. It was no wonder therefore, that the war inthis region bore a character altogether different from theconflicts elsewhere, that no compromise was attempted there,that no quarter was given or taken, and that the pursuitwas continued to the very uttermost. Thus the campaign of 672 was begun on both sides with 82.augmented military resources and increased animosity.The revolution in particular threw away the scabbard: atCarbo's suggestion the Roman comitia outlawed all thesenators that should be found in Sulla's camp. Sulla wassilent; he probably thought that they were pronouncingsentence beforehand on themselves. The army of the Optimates was divided. The pro-consul Sulla pro-Metellus undertook, resting on the support of the Picenian c?eds t0 La"insurrection, to advance to Upper Italy, while Sulla marched p1"™^" op*from Campania straight against the capital. Carbo threw youngerhimself in the way of the former; Marius would encounter Marius.the main army of the enemy in Latium. Advancing alongthe Via Latina, Sulla fell in with the enemy not far from