OCR Output THERA. 1159 THERA. c a. c 23", is absurd, u tbey are mentioned t>ysltinus and Herodotus, and must have existed evenag before the time of those writers; but if we sup-as; a slight error in the numerals in the text ofImr (reading "Olympiadia exxxxv anno quarto"Mad of " Olympiadis exxxv anno quarto"), weirt the very year (u.c. 197) in which Eusebius ■ Justin place the appearance of Hiera. There ■ b Utile doubt, therefore, that Pliny's authoritiesfend to this event, and that it was only throughaajsaness that lie spoke of the appearance of Tberasj Tberssia in that year. Thus the first state-MR of Pliny may be reconciled with the accounts Eastuiu*. Justin, and the other writers. TheBalance of the second island, to which be falselyasters the name of lliera from the earlier occur-Ka, must be placed in B.C. 67, according to themeted chronology. This island no longer exists;i it must therefore cither have been thrown upI sfisaputared again immediately, as was the case in the eruption of 1650, or it was simply an additionto the ancient Hiera, of which there are some in­stances at a later period. It ia apparently to thiseruption that the statement of Posidonius. quoted bySeneca, refers. The last statement of Pliny that anew island, named Tbia, was thrown up 2 stadiafrom 'I liia in the consulship of M. Junius Silanusand L. tialbus, on the 8th of July, is so exact that itBeems hardly possible to reject it; but here again iaan error in the date. If we take the numbers aathey stand, tbia event would have happened in A.n.3, or, according to the corrected numbers, in a. d. 43,whereas we know that M. Junius Silanus and I,.Balbus were consuls in a.i>. 19. No other writer,however, speaks of an eruption of an island in thisyear, which, if it actually happened, must againhave disappeared. Moreover, it is strange that Plinyshould have passed over the eruption of the realThia, or MUcra Kammeni, which occurred in his life­time, in the consulship of Valerius Asiaticus, and in OA • OK TIIKKA AND THE 8l'BltOl«maO ISLAJtDSJ. Shoal formed hjr the submarine volranic el upturn In ISMF.ntram-e to the crater,t / i.ii - 1 , i. ■ ■ and ruined rltjr. rrobablT Thera.In nilns at Kimari, irobably Oea.I Prrilta. O. C. Eromili. H. Ruins, prohablr of Eleuslt. K. Promontory of Sirrro. M. Eptmomrria.N. I. A'ofsnaoo. 4 R 4