OCR Output Chap. XV. WARS or THE JEWS. ket Place, and to slay such as they met with. So the soldiers*taking this exhortation of their commander in a sense agreeableto their desire of gain, did not only plunder the place they weresent to, but forcing themselves into every house, they slew itsinhabitants; so the citizens Red along the narrow lanes, and thesoldiers slew those that they caught, and no method of plunderwas omitted; they also caught many of the quiet people, andbrought them beforeFlorus, whom he first chastised with stripes,and then crucified. Accordingly, the whole number of thosethat were destroyed that day, with their wives and children(for they did not spare even the infants themselves), was aboutthree thousand and six hundred. And what made this calami­ty the heavier, was this new method of Roman barbarity: forFlorus ventured then to do what no one had done before, thatis, to have men of the * equestrian order whipped, and nailed tothe cross before his tribunal; who although they were by birthJews, yet were they of Roman dignity notwithstanding. CHAP. XV. Concerning Bernice'j petition to Florus, to spare the Jews, lutin vain ; as also how, after the seditious flame was quenched,it was kindled again by Florus. J !• A BOUT this very time king Agrippa was going to Alex.J^\. andria, to congratulate Alexander upon his havingobtained the government of Egypt from Nero; but as his sisterBernice was come to Jerusalem, and saw the wicked practicesof the soldiers, she was sorely affected at it, and frequently sentthe masters of her horse, and her guards, to Florus, and beggedof him to leave off these slaughters; but he would not complywith her request, nor have any regard either to the multitudeof those already slain, or to the nobility of her that interceded,but only to the advantage he should make by this plundering;nay, this violence of the soldiers brake out to such a degree ofmadness, that it spent itself on the queen herself; for they didnot only torment and destroy those whom they had caught un­der her very eyes, but indeed had killed herself also, unless shehad prevented them by flying to the palace, and had stayed thereall night with her guards, which she had about her for fear ofan insult from the soldiers. Now she dwelt then at Jerusalem, in * Here we have examples of native Jews who were «f the equestrian order a-mong the Romans, and so ought never to have been whipped or crucified, ac­cording to the Roman laws. See almost the like case in St Paul himielf, Actsliii. tf,—i.