OCR Output ROMA. 827 IiOMA. rm irmUmed to divert himself with bis court., M PoUio, Gall bw>, c. 17.) The temple of Mi-t-ra Ifediea mentioned in the Notitia may pro-■41; km stood is the neighbourhood; but the\-*ao( a question seems too luge to be identifiedwatt. Ashoj Ibe profane monuments of this district wewj oal occasion to mention once or twice an objectxjClhi TkhI'Hiis or Makivs. Valerius Maxi-2U rtittM thit Marius erected two tropaea (vi. 9.[ftjissa that these must hare been on the Esqui-m iffem from a passage of the same author (ii.L j stated s little while ago respecting the siteiiu titsr of Febris. A building which stands at * jtudiai of the Via di S. hibuma and Via diH.t.yim a little way outside the ancient Porta ^tuiias bore daring the middle ages the name of'es^im Marii, or Cimbrum, and was adorned withsaw Kolptorad trophies which were removed ink fn-iftili of Status V. to the balustrade of theiei Campidoglio, where they still remain.W> Ana. sn. 1U3, ap. MabilL Mui. ltal ii. p.tl. l'»fjjo,de Tor. tort. p. 8, ed. Par. 1723.)ur» an be no doubt, however, that the buildingi eaJW was no temple, but tbe caitellum of anwlstl and is in all probability the object men-«» in the Xotitia as the Nympheim Diviii-tHDai. It must hare been one of the prin-fsv at alia of the Aqua Julia, and from the tro-■l vbieh stood in the neighbourhood having ■ sffued to its adornment it was mistakeni l*»r age for a temple erected by Marius. ImUcaz. p. 156, seq. : Preller, Regimen, m.) btta this Xymphaeum and the Porta Esquilina=*» the Alters CiALUEM, which must have""•e1 the ancient Via Praenestina. It is a simple ■ d inrertioe, and we learn from the inscription ■ s% which is still legible, that it was erected by■Kara M. Aurelius Victor in honour of the em- * 'juiienua and his consort Salonina. Originally ■ ane smaller arches on each side of it {Spec.*■ -Vosa. tab. 24), but at present only the middlerratns. to this arch and between it and tbe basilica'Jfsrio ilaggiore, lay the Fokum Escjiili- ■ a*] Mac Eia.i m Liviaju'm. This positionat oacehom is certain. The basilica just named > knit "juxta Macellum Liviae." (Anastas.I^ri and V. Silt. III.) That it was close to*»h «f liaiheuus appears from the Ordo Ro- (" Intrana smb arcum (Gallieni) ubi di-r UscelJam Lunanum (Livianum) progredilur'nrapiuTu Mara qooti dicitur Cirabrum," Ann.«Vp. 141.) And the church of 5. Vito closewas designated as "in Macello." (An.r«a. Am A u. c 6.) But it is a more diffi-•,"«»Uou to determine whether tlie Forum Es- ud Macellum Livianum were distinct ob-I m one and the ean.e. We know that the Fo-i i^Suiifinm was in existence in B. c. 88, since > VKUiiaed by Appi»n (B. C. i. 58) as the * •d the struggle between Marius and Sulla. ■ Sster (Roma neJr Anno 1838, torn. ii. p.i timing that tbe inacellum and forum were regarded it as founded by M. Livius Sa-*- who was rensor with Claudius Nero, B. c.L btjt this view is unsupported by any autho-, sat is it probable that tbe forum bad two*-*!**»; whence it seems most likely that the founded by Augustus, and named after his consortLivia. (Preller, Regional, p. 131.) There was also a PottTicua Liviae somewhereon the Exquiline, named in the Notitia in the 3rdRegion after the baths of Titus. It was a qua­drangular porticus ('fpio-Tfwi'), built by Augustus,b. cl 14, on the site of the house of Vedius Pollio,which he bad inherited. (Dion Cass. liv. 23.) Asthe same author (lv. 8) calls it a rtuivurua, wemay conclude that it contained the Temple orConcord mentioned by Ovid. (Fast. vi. 633.) Itis alluded to by Strabo (v. p. 236), and by boththe Plinys. (xiv. 3; Ep. i. 5; cf. Becker, Ilandb.p. 542, Antic, p. 78.) We also read of a PokticlsJulia, built in honour of Cains and Lucius Caesar(Dion Cass. Ivi. 27, as emended by Merkel ad Ov.Fiut. p. cxli.), but its situation cannot be deter­mined. Near the church of S. Croce in Gertualemme,towards the side of the Porta Maggiore, he theruins of a large building already alluded to, whichin the middle ages bore the name of Sessomum.We have remarked that in the Kxcerpta Valerianaat the end of Ammianus Marcellinus it is called apalace (" in palatio, quod appellatur Sessorium,"it Odoac. 69). It is identified by a passage inAnastasius stating that the church of S. Croce waserected there. ( Fit Silrett. p. 45, Blanch.) Also near the same church, but on the other sideof it, and built into the wall of Aureliun, are the re­mains of a considerable amphitheatre which areusually identified as the Ajipihtiikatiu .m Cas-TKiiNSE of the Xotitia. Becker, however (Ilandb.p. 552, scq.), denies this identity, his chief objec­tion being the great space which the 5th Regiomust have occupied if this building is included init, and holds that the true Amphitheatrum Cas-trense must have been near the Castra Praetoria.There are, however, no traces of the remains of anamphitheatre in that direction, and Becker acknow­ledges (Ilandb. p. 558) that he is unable to gireany name to that by S. Croce. But there could nothave been many structures of this description inRome, and on the whole it seems must reasonable toconclude with Preller (Regionen, p. 132) that theone in question was the Castrense; especially as weknow from Procopius (B. G. i. 22. seq.) that therewas a vivarium, or place for kipping wild beastsused in the sports of the amphitheatre, close to thePorta Praenestina. In the valley under this amphitheatre were theGardens am> Cikcus of Ki.agahalis (Lampr.Iltliog. 14, 23), where the obelisk was found whichnow stands on the promenade on the Pincian (Li-gorio, Stii Cerchi, p. 3 j Canina, Indie, p. 178).Just outside the Porta Mungiore is the curiousMonument of El rvsaces the baker, which hasbeen spoken of above, p. 760. The remaining monuments in the district underconsideration are few and unimportant. The AtolloSandaliaiui s mentioned in the Svtilia in the 4thRegion was one of those statues which Augustuserected in the different Vici. (Suet. Aug. 57.)We have said that the temple of Fort una Seta stoodin the Virus Sandaliarius: und as this temple wasincluded in the domain of the gulden liou-e of Neroj (Plin. xxxvi. 46) we may conclude that it was inor near the Carinae. (Becker, Ilandb. p. 561.)The Coiaishei m will be described in a separatesection. The 3rd Region, in which it was situated,must doubtless have contained a splendid Temple of