OCR Output 1100 TARENTUM. TABEXTUM. I ho climate of Tarentum, though justly praisedby Horace lor its mildness, was generally reckonedbutt and enervating, and was considered as in somedecree the cause of the luxurious and effeminatehabits ascribed to the inhabitants (M molle Taren­tum," Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 34; M iinbelle Tarentum," Id.Ep, i. 7. 45.) It is probable that tliis charge,as in many other cases, was greatly exaggerated;bii* there is no re:isou to doubt that the 1 arentines,like almost all the other Greeks who became amanufacturing and commercial people, indulged in adegree of luxury far exceeding that of the rudernations of Central Italy. The wealth and opulencet«» which they attained in the 4th century n. c. na­turally tended to aggravate these evils, and the Ta­rentines are represented as at the time of the arrivalof Pyrin ua enfeebled and degraded by luxurious in­dulgences, and devoted almost exclusively to thepursuit of pleasure. To such an excess was thiscarried that we are told the number of their annualfestivals exceeded that of the days of the year.(Theopomp. ap. A then. iv. p. 166; Clcarch. op.Atken. xii. p. 522 ; Strab. vi. p. 2S0; Aelian, V.U.xii. 30.) Juvenal alludes to their love of feastingand pleasure when he calls it "coronalum ac petu-lana madidumque Tarentum'' (vi. 297). But it iscertain, as already observed, that they were not in­capable of war: they furnished a considerable bodyof troops to the army of Pyrrhui; and in thesea-fight with the Roman fleet off the entranceof the harbour, during the Second Punic War,they displayed both courage and skill in navalcombat. (Liv. xxvi. 39.) In the time of theirgreatest power, according to Strabo, they could sendinto the field an army of 30,000 foot and 3000horse, besides a body of 1000 select cavalry calledIlipparchs. (Strab. vi. p. 2S0.) The Tarcntinelight cavalry was indeed celebrated throughoutGreece, so that they gave name to a particulardescription of cavalry, which are mentioned underthe name of Tarentines (Toporru'Oi), in the armiesof Alexander the Great and his successors; and theappellation continued in use down to the period ofthe. Roman Empire. (Arrian, A nub.; Id. Tact. 4;I'ol. iv. 7". xi. 12 ; Liv. xxxv. 28; Aelian, Tact.2. p. 14 : Suidas, s. v. Tapavrivoi.) It is probable,however, that these may have been always recruitedin great part among the neighbouring Messapiansand Sallentines, who also excelled as light horsemen. Willi their habits of luxury the Tarentines un­doubtedly combined the refinements of the arts usu­ally associated with it, and were diligent cultivatorsof the fine arts. The great variety and beauty oftheir cuius is, even at the present day, a sufficientproof of this, while the extraordinary numbers ofthem which are still found in the S. of Italy attestthe wealth of the city. Ancient writers also speakof the numbers of pictures, statues, and other worksof art with which the city was adorned, and of whicha considerable number were transported to Rome.(Klor.i.18; Slrab.vi.p.278; Liv.xxvii. 16.) Amongthese the most remarkable were the colossal statueof Jupiter, mentioned by Strabo (/. c), and whichwas apparently still standing in the Agora in histime: the bronze statue of Hercules by Lysippusalready noticed; and a statue of Victory, which wasalso carried to Home, where it became one of thechief ornaments of the Curia Julia. (Dion Cass.Ii. 22.) Nor were the Tarentines deficient in thecultivation of literature. In addition to Archytas,the Pythagorean philosopher, celebrated for his mathematical attainments and discoveriesheld at Tarentum a place somewhat smirtsoatof Pericles at Athens (I>iog. L&ert r£ 4; Seas. v. 'ApxvTi* ; Athen. xii. p. 545), -the celebrated musician and disciple d twas a native of Tarentum; as wtD as Tthe dramatic poet, who became the fjonierrfiaspecies of burlesque drama which icultivated by Sopater and other i$. v. 'PirtW.) It was from Tarentam alsstbtdKomans received the first rudiments of tlx ndrama, Livius Andronicoa, their earnest tpoet, having been a Greek of Tirratam, itaken prisoner when the city fell into \(Cic. tirut. 18.) Poly o.us tells us that Tarentnm retiinaiitraces of its Lacedaemonian orieio in kcal ■and customs, which still subsisted in bis dir.!was the tomb of Hyacinthus already BHStildjviii. SO): the river Galaesus also was caliei fedthe Kurotas (lb. 35), though the native atavmate 1J prevailed. Another custom wbkbfaraas peculiar was that if burying their doi rzsa |the walls of the city, so that a cuo&ideraak Iwithin the walls was occupied by a neeraaeia30.) This custom he ascribes to an crabe, Imay have arisen (as was the cand Syracuse) from the increase ot the oi% flled to the original necropolis being ithe walls. The name of Tarentum (Taras) ibe derived from a river of the u(Tdpas). which is noticed by several i(Sleph. B. #. r. Tdsas ; Pans, x. 10. § !)is commonly identified with a deep, bei istream, which flows into the sem ab ei 4 IW. of the entrance of the harbour of Ta--eatiis still called Tara, though corrupted fejtltlsantry into Fiume at Terra. (K- xioe.i'p. 281; Swinburne, vol. L p. 271.) The nbrated stream of the Gala£SI'S flowed intolPiccolo, or harbour of Tarentum on it* N-is commonly identified with the small streamt^BLe Citivzze, an old church near which >ull*sjthe name of Sta Maria di Gakso. [G-UiB^HAnother locality in the immediate DSftgaattJsfc^HTarentum, the name of which isthat of the city by Horace, is AtLos. a b2l*scelebrated for the excellence of its iidentified by local topographers, tboogaaaislight grounds, with &'sloping ridge on tailshore about 8 miles SK. of Tarer.tnm, a ]which bears the name of Monte Melane, •to be a corruption of Aulone [Avlos].obscure name, which is repeatedly menti 1nection with Tarentum, is that of Sa TV Rita (piov). From the introdaction of this coracle alleged to have been given to(Strab. vi. p. 279), it seems probable that it <old native name, but it is not clear that fwas a town or eren village of the name. It ■probable that it was that of a tract or district tneighbourhood of Tarentum. Stephanos ef Itium distinctly calls it x*Va wA*>*r P(s. r. San'jpioi'); and the authority of Serriaa,^calls it a city (civitaa) near Tarentum, is wt *"*mucli in comparison. There wjof the name in historical times. YirjrUaepithet " Saturiuni" (as an adjective) to T*itself (Georg. ii. 197; Serr. ad loc.: mas? tawuieutators, however, consider " aatnri" mxn *sBa*"