OCR Output 436 .» DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. bursements was kept above three hundred years in theLateran, as the model of Christian economy. On thefour great festivals, he divided their quarterly allowance«nd arms, to the clergy, to his domestics, to the monasteries, thechurches, the places of burial, the alms-houses, and thehospitals of Rome, and the rest of the diocess. On thefirst day of every month, he distributed to the poor,according to the season, their stated portion of corn,wine, cheese, vegetables, oil, fish, fresh provisions,■ clothes, and money; and his treasures were continuallysummoned to satisfy, in his name, the .extraordinary de­mands of indigence and merit. The instant distress ofthe sick and helpless, of strangers and pilgrims, was re­lieved by the bounty of each day, and of every hour:.nor would the pontiff indulge himself in a frugal repast,till he had sent the dishes from his own table to someobjects deserving of his compassion. The misery of thetimes had reduced the nobles and matrons of Rome toaccept, without a blush, the benevolence of the'church:.three thousand virgins received their food and raimentfrom the hand of their benefactor; and many bishopsof Italy escaped from the barbarians to the hospitablethreshold of the Vatican. Gregory might justly be styledthe father of his country; and such was the extreme sen­sibility of his conscience, that, for the death of a beggarwho had perished in the streets, he interdicted himselfduring several days from the exercise of sacerdotal func­tions. II. The misfortunes of Rome involved the apo­stolic pastor in the business of peace and war; .and itmight be doubtful to himself, whether piety or ambitionprompted him to supply the place of his absent sovereign.Gregory awakened the emperor from a long slumber,exposed the guilt or incapacity of the exarch and his in­ferior ministers, complained that the veterans were with­drawn from Rome for the defence of Spoleto, encourag­ed the Italians to guard their cities and altars; and con­descended, in the crisis of danger, to name the tribunes,