OCR Output 458 ROMAN EMPIRE. the eyes of an inquisitive Polytheist,it must appear wor­thy of the human and the divine nature. More purethan the system of Zoroaster, more liberal than the lawof Moses, the religion of Mahomet might seem less in­consistent with reason, than the creed of mystery andsuperstition, which, in the seventh century, disgracedthe simplicity of the gospel. Fail of the 1° ^e extensive provinces of Persia andMagians Africa, the national religion has been eradicatedby the Mahometan faith. The ambiguous theo­logy of the Magi stood alone among the sects of the east:but the profane writings of Zoroaster0 might, under thereverend name of Abraham, be dexterously connectedwith the chain of divine revelation. Their evil prin­ciple, the demon Ahriman, might be represented as therival or as the creature of the God of light. The tem­ples of Persia were devoid of images; but the worshipof the sun and of fire might be stigmatized as a grossand criminal idolatry.11 The milder sentiment was con­secrated by the practice of Mahomef and the prudenceof the caliphs; the Magians or Ghebers were rankedwith the Jews and Christians among the people of thewritten law;r and as late as the third century of the He-gira, the city of Herat will afford a lively contrast of pri­ 0 Ilif Zend or Pazend, the bible of the Ghebers, is reckoned by themselves, orat h'»st by the Mahometans, among the ten books which Abraham received fromheaven; and their religion is honourably styled the religion of Abraharn. (D'Her-belot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 701. Hyde, de Religione veterum Persarnm, c. 3. p. 17,38, &c.) I much fear that we do not possess any pure and/ree description of thesystem of Zoroaster. Dr. Prideaux (Connexion, vol. 1. p. 300. octavo) adopts 1heopinion, that he had been the slave and scholar of some Jewish prophet in thecaptivity of Babylon. Perhaps the Persians, who have been the masters of theJews, would assert the honour, a poor honour, of being tln'ir masters. f The Arabian Nights, a faithful and amusing picture of the oriental world,represent in the most odious colours, the Magians, or worshippers of fire, to whomthey attribute the annual sacrifice of a Mussulman. The religion of Zoroasterhas not the least affinity with that of the Hindoos, yet they are often confoundedby the Mahometans; and the sword of Timonr was sharpened by this mistake.(Hist, de Timour Bee, par Cherefeddin Al i Yezdi, lib. 5.) i Vie de Mahomet, par Gagnier, torn. 5. p. 114,115. 'Hsc tres sects, Jurtsi, Christiani, et qui inter Persas Magoruminstitntisad-dicti sunt, HUT' tjojc1"' fp«.\i liberi dicuntur. (Reland, Dissertat. torn. 3. p. 15.) Tbecaliph Al Mamun confirms this honourable distinction in favour of the three sects, •with the vague and equivocal religion of the Sabsans, under which the ancientPolytheisls of Charre were allowed to shelter theii idolatrous worship. (HottingCT.Hist. Orient, p. 167, 168.)