OCR Output 98 THE ANXALS [A. U. C. 769. : ther. He promised to attend the hearing of the cause,in favour of Urgulania; and that mark of filial com­pliance he thought would not be considered as astretch of power. He set out accordingly from the palace, his guardsfollowing at a distance. He proceeded slowly throughthe streets, amidst a concourse of people, with an airof calm composure, occasionally loitering in conver­sation. Piso's friends tried all in their power to makehim desist from his suit; but nothing could shake thatresolute temper. To end the controversy, Liviathought good to pay the whole of his demand. Pisoby his firmness did honour to his character, and Ti­berius, gained the popular applause. Urgulania con­tinued, notwithstanding, to tower above the conditionof a citizen; insomuch that, being summoned as awitness in a matter depending before the senate, herpride would not suffer her to appear. A prsetor wassent to take her examination in private; though, byancient usage, the attendance of the vestal virgins,whenever cited to give their testimony, was neverdispensed with, either in the forum or the tribunalsof justice. XXXV. Part of this year was remarkable for a to­tal suspension of all public business. Of this inactivestate it would be scarce worth while to take noticeif the different sentiments of Cneius Piso and AsiniusGallus did not seem to merit attention. Tiberius gavenotice, that he intended to absent himself for sometime from Rome. Piso declared his opinion, that, insuch a juncture, the senate ought to attend withgreater assiduity to the despatch of business. The fa­thers and the Roman knights might still dischargetheir respective functions; " the dignity of the coin-" monwealth required it." Asinius Gallus saw with ajealous eye, that his rival had taken the popular side;and, to counteract his design, rose to oppose the mo­tion. " Nothing," he said, " could be truly great, or" worthy of the Roman people, unless conducted un-" der the eye of the prince. The affairs of state, and" the great conflux of people, not only from all parts" of Italy, but from the provinces, ought to be reserved