OCR Output 266 THE ROMANS FIRE [B. VI. sudden, and caught hold of the cloisters. Upon the Jewsseeing this fire all about them, their spirits sunk, togetherwith their bodies, and they were under such astonishmentthat not one of them made any haste either to defend him足self or to quench the fire, but they stood as mute spectatorsof it only. However, they did not so grieve at the loss ofwhat was now burning as to grow wiser thereby for the timeto come; but, as though the holy house itself had been on firealready, they whetted their passions against the Romans.This fire prevailed during that day and the next also; for thesoldiers were not able to burn all the cloisters that wereround about together at one time, but only by pieces. 3. But then, on the next day, Titus commanded part ofhis army to quench the fire, and to make a road for the moreeasy marching up of the legions, while he himself gatheredthe commanders together. Of those there were assembledthe six principal persons, Tiberius Alexander, the commander[under the general] of the whole army, with Sextus Cercalis,the commander of the fifth legion, and Larcius Lepidus thecommander of the tenth legion, and Titus Frigius, the com足mander of the fifteenth legion; there was also with themEternius, the leader of the two legions that came from Alex足andria, and Marcus Antonius Julianus, procurator of Judca ;after these came together also the rest of the procurators andtribunes. Titus proposed to these, that they should givehim their advice what should be done about the holy house.Now some of these thought " it would be the best way to actaccording to the rules of war [and demolish it,] because thoJews would never leave off rebelling while that house wasstanding, at which house it was that they used to get all to足gether." Others of them were of opinion, that "in case theJews would leave it, and none of them would lay their armsup in it, he might save it; but that in case they got upon it,and fought any more, he might burn it; because it must thenbe looked upon not as a holy house, but as a citadel; andthat the impiety of burning it would then belong to thosethat forced this to be done, and not to them." But Tit'assaid, that "although the Jews should get upon that holy