OCR Output 132 ROMAN EMPIRE. A. D. 9ii. the ancients. An apartment of the ByzantineMay11' palace was lined with porphyry: it was reservedfor the use of the pregnant empresses; and the royalbirth of their children was expressed by the appel­lation of porphyrogenite, or born in the purple. Severalof the Roman princes had been blessed with an heir;but this peculiar surname was first applied to Constan-tine VII. His life and titular reign were of equal dura­tion; but of fifty-four years, six had elapsed before hisfather's death; and the son of Leo was ever the volun­tary or reluctant subject of those who oppressed hisweakness or abused his confidence. His uncle Alex­ander, who had long been invested with the title ofAugustus, was the first colleague and governor of theyoung prince: but in a rapid career of vice and folly,the brother of Leo already emulated the reputation ofMichael; and when he was extinguished by a timelydeath, he entertained a project of castrating his nephew,and leaving the empire to a worthless favourite. Thesucceeding years of the minority of Constantine wereoccupied by his mother Zoe, and a succession of coun­cil of seven regents, who pursued their interest, gratifiedtheir passions, abandoned the republic, supplanted eachother, and finally vanished in the presence of a soldier.From an obscure origin, Romanus Lecapenus had raisedhimself to the command of the naval armies; and in theanarchy of the times, had deserved, or at least had ob­tained, the national esteem. With a victorious and af­fectionate fleet, he sailed from the mouth of the Danubeinto the harbour of. Constantinople, and was hailed asthe deliverer of the people, and the guardian of theprince. His supreme office was at first defined byRomanusi. the new appellation of father of the emperor;A. ixlug'!' but Romanus soon disdained the subordinateDec. 24. powers of a minister, and assumed, with thetitles of Caesar and Augustus, the full independence ofroyalty, which he held near five-and-twenty years.