OCR Output CHAP. 34. ROMAN HISTORY. &7 cause he was the son of an exile, she persuades him toleave Tarquinii. Rome, of all others, seemed te be themost eligible retreat. In a new state, where nobility isthe perquisite of merit, and but of short standing, a manof courage and address would bid fair for distinction.Tatins, though a Sabine, was raised to the throne. Nu-ma was called to-the same dignity from Cures. Ancus-was born of a Sabine mother, and had no other badge ofnobility, than a single statue of Numa. Her arguments prevailed with Lucumo, who wasnaturally ambitions, and attached to Tarquinii, from noother consideration-, but (bat it gave birth to his mother.Wherefore, having sent oil" their ertects, tliey set out forRome. They happened to stop at the Janiculum, where,as he sat in the chariot with his wile, an sagle, fallinggently with spread wings, took of!' his cap, and flutteringover the chariot with a prodigious noise, as if sent downfrom heaven on purpose, replaced it orderly on his head,-and then soared aloft. It is said, that Ta'naquil receivedthe omen with raptures, being much versed in celestialprodigies, as the Etrurians generally are, and embracingher husband, encourages him to look up for great honoursand preferment; assuring him, "That the bird had"come from a quarter of the heavens peculiar to ^Tu-•* piter himself, whose messenger he was. That it had"taken the omen from the vertical point of man, and"lifted the ornament of the human head, to replace"it there by command of the gods."—Full of thesethoughts and expectations, they entered the city; andhaving purchased a house, he went under the. name ofLucius Tarquinius Priscus. Being a foreigner and veryrich, be soon became conspicuous at Rome; where, bythe affability of his demeanour, frank invitations, andobjiging manner of conferring favours, he procured him­self friends, and promoted his interest; insomuch, thatat last, he came to be mentioned at court, where, bydischarging his duty about the king with assiduity andpoliteness, he soon became.a very great favourite, andwas admitted a privy counsellor: Aiid having, on alloccasions distinguished himself by his integrity and abi­lities, he was at last appointed guardian to the royal fa­mily, by the king's last will.