OCR Output 510 PADCS. PADUS. where it separates from the main stream. Severnsmaller tributaries of the river in the highest partof its course are noticed in the Tabula or by theGeographer of Ravenna, which are nut mentioned byany ancient author; but their names are tor the mostpart corrupt and uncertain. Though Bowing for the most part through a greatplain, the Pari us thus derives the great mass of ir.swaters directly from two great mountain ranges, andthe consequence is that it is always a strong, rapid,and turbid stream, and has been in all ages subjectto violent inundations. (\ irg. Georg. \. 481; Min.I.e.) The wh«>le soil of the lower valley of the Pois indeed a pure alluvial deposit, and may he con­sidered, like the valley of the MisM.vdppi or the Deltaof the Nile, as formed by the gradual accumulationof mud, sand, and gravel, brought down by the riveritself and its tributary streams. But this processwas for the most part long anterior to the historicalperiod; and there can he no doubt that this portionof Italy had already acquired very much its presentcharacter and configuration as early as the( time ofthe first Etruscan settlements. The valley of thePad us, as well as the river itself, are well describedby Poly bins (the earliest extant author in whom theRoman name of Pad us is found), as well as at a laterperiod by Strabo and Pliny. (Pol. ii. 16; Strab. iv.pp. 203, 204. v. p. 21*2; PI in. hi. 16. s. 20.) Con­siderable changes have, however, taken place in thelower part of its (nurse, near the Adriatic sea. Herethe river forms a kind of great delta, analogous inmany respects to that of the Nile; and the pheno­menon is complicated, as in that case, by the existenceof great lagunes bordering the coast of the Adriatic,which are bounded by narrow strips or bars of sand,separating them from the sea. though leaving openoccasional channels of communication, so that thelagunes are always salt and affected by the tides,which are more sensible in this part of the Adriaticthan in the Mediterranean. (Strab. v. p. 212.) Theselagunes, which are well described by Strabo, extendedin his time from Ravenna toAltinum, both of whichcities stood in the lagunes or marshes, and wen-built on piles, in the same manner as the modernVenice. But the whole of these could not be fairlyconsidered as belonging to the Delta of the Pad us;the more northerly being formed at the mouths ofother rivers, the Athesis, Meduacus, &c, which hadno direct or natural communication with the greatriver. They all, however, communicated with thePadus, and with one another, by channels or canalsmore or less artificial: and as this was already thecase in the time of Pliny, that author distinctlyreckons the mouths of the Padus to extend fromRavenna to Altinuin. (Plin. /. c.) Prom the earliestperiod that this tract was occupied by a settledpeople, the necessity must have been felt of embank­ing the various arms and channels of the river, forprotection against inundation, as well as of con­structing artificial cuts and channels, both for car­rying off its superfluous waters and for purposes ofCommunication. The earliest works of this kind areascribed to the Etruscans (Plin. /.»'.), and from thattime to the present day, they have been carried onwith occasional interruptions, lint in addition tothese artificial changes, the river has from lime tolime burst its hanks and forced for itself new chan­nels, or diverted the mass of its waters into thosewhich were previously unimportant. The most re­markable of these changes which is recorded withcertainty, took place in 1152, when the main stream of the Po, which then flowed S, of Ferrari, sud­denly changed its course, and bos ever *inc? flabout .'3 miles N. of that city. Hence it i* prir*that all the principal modern mom lis of tbc K,tmthe Po fit Gi.'i'o to the Po di Ltiantt, were UiiLu=atimes comparatively inconsiderable. Polybius (ii. 16) describes the Padua ashingonly two principal mouths, which separated illplace called Trigaboli (the site ol which run* '« • determined); the one of these is called by him IWj(naScfo), and the other, which was the pr.'jnMchannel, and the one commonly navigated, 1*Olana or Ilohma ("OXava). This last is in aL [?sbabihty the channel >tilt called/V di FoJrnMMuntil the great inundation of 1152, above nyunwas still the principal mouth of the Po. Thetfiiis probably tiie southernm«fet branch of tie nflwhich separates from the preceding at/Vrrariuis carried at the present day by a vh<r\\r ariiidchannel into the sea at Prwwrot from *he><derives the name of Po di Primary. It* pre*mouth is about 15 miles N. of Ravenna; bat itthat in the days of Pliny, and probably in tta*Polybius also, it discharged itself into thawhich then surrounded Ravenna on all sides, i'literms it Padusa, but gives it also the oamtofflAugusta, from its course having been artiffliregulated, and perhaps altered, by that(Plin. iii. 16. s. 20.) The same author ginaldetailed enumeration of the mouths of the i'a»;athey existed in his day, but from the caasflchange already adverted to. it is very d fixu)t,ilimpossible, to identify them with certainty. They were, according to him: 1. the I'At-rsJFossa Augusta, which (he adds) was prrrscalled Messanieus: this lias now wholly cat*exist. 2. The Portus Vatrexi, evidently amits name from being the mouth of the nvsr l trenus, which flowed from Furum Cornelii, :«the Po di Primaro is at the present day c*-«mouth of the Reno. This was also known aSpineticum Ostium, from the once celebrated cSpina, which was situated on its banks [SfiIt was probably the same with the modern iPrimaro. 3. Ostium Capraslae. 4. Saris.'lane, previously called Olane: this is eridnil [ Olana of Polybius, and the modern Po a* ^the two preceding cannot be identified, b-athave been openings communicating with tisrlagunes of Comacchto. 6. The Carbonari, pthe PodiGoro. 7. The Fossio Phihstina.whit*to have been an artificial canal, conveying tbtlof the Tartarus, still called Tartaro, to UThis cannot be identified, the changes of thr 1of the river in this part being too cor*^aer*i.ewhole of the present delta, formed by Vatmouths of the Po (from the Po di G<**Po di Lei ante), must have l»een formedgreat change of 1152; its progress fortunes back can be accurately traced; and «<that it has advanced not le=ss than 9 miles *more than two centuries and a half, and at '*miles since the 12th century. Bevo&d tidelta belongs rather to the A di<jc, and n»o« astreams than to the Po; the next muoth bwof the main stream of the Adior itstlt. abeyond it the Porto di BrxmdoJo (the BrPortus of Pliny), which at the present daymouth of the Brenta.* * Much curious information concerning tin