OCR Output ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book II. thee of the dominion, I gave it thee; and bymy kindness it was that when thou was sentinto Mesopotamia alone, thou obtainedst goodwives, and returnedst with many children,and much wealth. Thy whole fomily, also,has been preserved by my providence; andit was I who conducted Joseph thy eon, whomthou gavest up for lost, to the enjoyment ofgreat prosperity. I also made him lord ofEgypt, so that he differs but little from a king.Accordingly I come now as a guide to theein this journey, and foretel to thee that thoushalt die in the arms of Joseph, and that thyposterity shall be many ages in authority andglory; and I will settle them in the landwhich I have promised them." h Encouraged by this dream, Jacob went onmore cheerfully for Egypt, with his sons, andall belonging to them. Now they were in allseventy. I once indeed thought it best notto set down the names of this family; espe­cially because of their difficult pronuncia­tion by the Greeks. But upon the whole, Ithink it necessary to mention those names;that I may confute such as believe that wecame originally not out of Mesopotamia, butare Egyptians. Now Jacob had twelve sons. Of these Jo­seph was come thither before: we will there­fore set down the names of Jacob's childrenand grand-children. Reuben had four sons;Anoch, Phallu, Assaron, and Charmi. Simeonhad six; Jamuel, Jamin, Avod, Jachin, Soar,and Saul. Levi had three sons; Gersom,Caath, and Merari. Judas had three sons;Sala, Pharez, and Zerab; and by Pharez, twogrand-children; Esrom and Amur. Isacharhad four sons; Thola, Phua, Jasub, and Sa-maron. Zabulon had with him three sons;Sarad, Helon, and Jalel. So far is the pos*terity of Leah, with whom went her daughterDinah. These are thirty-three. Rachel hadtwo sons; one of whom, Joseph, had two sonsalso; Manasseh and Ephraim. The other,Benjamin, had ten sons; Bolau, Bacchar,Asabel, Geras, Naaman, Jes, Ros, Momphis, Opphis, and Arad. These fourteen added tothe thirty-three before enumerated, amountto forty-seven: and this was the legitimateposterity of Jacob. He had beside by Bilha,the handmaid of Rachael, Dan and Naphthali,which last had four sons, that followed him;Jesel, Guni, Issari, and Sellim. Dan had anonly begotten son, Usi. If these be added tothose above-mentioned, they complete thenumber fifty-four. Gad and Aser were thesons of Zilpha, who was the handmaid ofLeah. Gad had these seven sons; Saphoniah,Augis, Sunis, Azabon, Aerin, Ereod, andAriel. Aser had a daughter, Sarah, and sixmale children, whose names were Jomne, Isus,Isoui, Baris, Abar, and Melchiel. If we addthese, which are sixteen, to the fifty-four, theafore-mentioned number, seventy, is com­pleted, Jacob* himself not being included. When Joseph understood that his fatherwas coming, for Judas his brother arrivedbefore him, and announced his approach, hewent out to meet him, and they met togetherat Heroopolis. But Jacob almost faintedaway at this great and unexpected joy; how­ever, Joseph revived him, though unablehimself to refrain being affected in the samemanner. Yet he was not wholly overcomewith his passion, as his father was. Afterthis he desired Jacob to travel on slowly,whilst he himself took five of his brethrenwith him, and hastened to the king, to tellhim that Jacob and his family were come.This was a joyful hearing to Pharaoh, whobid Joseph tell him what sort of life his bre­thren loved to lead, that he might give thempermission to follow the same. He said, theywere good shepherds, and had been used tofollow no other employment: by which he pro­vided for them, that they should not be sepa­rated, but live in the same place, and take careof their father; as also hereby he provided,that they might be acceptable to the Egyp­tians, by doing nothing that would be commonto them with the Egyptians; for the Egyp­tians are prohibitedt from feeding sheep. * All the Greek copies of Josephus have the negativeparticle here, that Jacob himself was not reckoned oneof the seventy souls that cane into Egypt. But the oldLatin copies want it, and directly assure us he was one ofthem. It is, therefore, hardly certain which of these wasJosephus's true reading: since the number of seventy ismade up without him, if we reckon Leah for one; but if she be not reckoned, Jacob himself must be one, to com­plete the number. N. B. The LXXII. add Machir, and Gilead, and Satetaam, and Taom, and Edem, who were bom in Egypt, andso have in all seventy-five souls: as Act. vii. 14. t Josephus thought that the Egyptians hated or despisedthe employment of a shepherd in the days of Joseph.