OCR Output ■124 NICER.NICAEA. to tlie E. of that river, wis naturally included inItaly, and is accordingly so described by Straboriiny. and Ptolemy. (Strab. iv. p. 184; Plin. iii.5. s. 7; Pt»l. iii. 1. § 2.) We have no account ofits early history, beyond the fact that it was acolony of Massilia, and appears to have continuedalways in a state of dependency upon that city.(Strab. iv. pp. 180, 184; Plin. J. c; Steph. B.s.p.)It was situated on the borders of the Ligurian tribesof tho Oxybii and Deciates: and, as well as itsneighbour Antipniis, was continually harassed bythe incursions of these barbarians. In B. c. 154both cities wore actually besieged by the Ligurians;and the Massilians, finding themselves unable to re­pulse the assailants, applied to Rome for assistance;the consul Q. Opiinius. who was despatched withnn anny to their succonr, quickly compelled theI.iguriuns to lay down their arms, and deprived themof a considerable part of their territory, which wasannexed to the dependency of Mass ilia- (Pol. xxxiii.4, 7; Liv. Kpil. xlvii.) From this time, nothingmore is heard in history of Nicaea, which continuedto Mnng to the jurisdiction of Massilia, and, evenafter it came to be subject to the Romans, andincluded geographically in Italy, was still for munici­pal purposes dependent upon its parent city. (Strab.iv. ]i. 184.) At a later period, the new division ofthe provinces again transferred to Gaul the towns ofNicaea and Cemenclium, together with the wholedistrict of the Maritime Alps, westward of theTropnea Augusti. Hence, we find Nicaea describedby Ammianus (xv. 11. § 15) as belonging to Gaul;and during the decline of the Empire, after it hadlieconie an episcopal see, the names of its bishops arefound among the Gaulish prelates. It does not ap­pear to have ever been a town of much importanceunder the Roman Empire; and was apparentlyeclipsed by the city of Ccmenelium (Cimicz), inits immediate neighbourhood. Rut it had a goodp»rt, which must always have secured it some shareof prosperity, and after the fall of Cemenelium, itrose to be the most important city in this part of Gaul,and became the capital of an independent districtcalled the Contailo di Xaza (County of Nice). Thiseventually fell into the hands of the House of Savoy,and mtw forms part of the dominions of the king ofSardinia. Nice itself is a flourishing place, withabout 30,000 inhabitants, but has no remains ofantiquity. The ancient city probably occupied theheight, now the site of the castle, and the immediateneighbourhood of the port, which though small,is secure. Nice is situated at tho mouth of theriver Faglione, a con-siderable mountain torrent,evidently the stream called Paulo by Pliny andMela. (Plin. I c; McL ii. 4. §9.) About 2 miles E. of A'l'ce is a deep bay or inletbetween two rocky promontories, forming a spaciousnatural, harbour now known as the Gulf of Villa*franca, from a town of that name, which hashowever existed only since the 13th century. Thisis probably the Porti'S Ouvula of the MaritimeItinerary (p. 504). The Amao Porti» of thesame Itinerary is probably a small cove, forming awell-sheltered harbour for small vessels on the E.side of the headland, called Capo di S. Oipizio,which forms the eastern boundary of tho Gulf ofVilLifranca. A similar cove a few miles further E.just below the modern village of Fza, is probablythe Avihio Portl's of the same authority; but thedistances given between these points are greatlyoverstated. [E. H. B.J 2. (Norma: Elk. Nuramlj). a fortress of theLocri Epicncmidii, situated upon the sea, and cla*to the pass of Thermopylae. It is described byAeschines as one of the places which commandedthe pass. (De Fall. Leg. p. 45, ed. Steph.) It «a»the first Locrian town after Alpenos, tha latter beiatat the very entrance of the pass. The surrender rfNicaea by Phalaecus to Philip, in B. c. 346. madetho Macedonian king master of Thermopylae, andbrought the Sacred War to an end. (Diod. rri.59.) Philip kept possession of it for some tiro*. Utsubsequently gave it to the Theasaliana along wi:kMagnesia. (Dem. Phil. ii. p. 153. ed. Reiske: Aesrh.c. Ctetiph. p. 73, ed. Steph.) But in n. c. 340 weagain find Nicaea in tl» possession of Philip.(Dem. in Phil. Kp. p. 153.) According to Homes(ap. Phot. p. 234, a., ed. Bekker ; c. 41; e«L Orviii)Nicaea was destroyed by the Phocians, and ita in­habitants founded the Bithynian Nicaea. Bet e»«if this is true, the town must have been rebuilt soonafterwards, since we find it in the hands of the Ae-tolians during the Roman wars in Greece. (Pohii.x. 42, xvii. 1 ; Liv. xxviii. 5, xxxii. 32.) Subse­quently the town is only mentioned by Strabo (ix.p. 426). Leake identifies Nicaea with the castle efPundonitza, where there are Hellenic remains.{Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 5. seq.) 3. In Illyria. [Castra, VoL L p. 562, a.] 4. In Thrace. [Nicae.] NICAMA (Ni'*aua), a place on the SW. coast ofIndia, called a metropolis by Ptolemy (vii. 1. § \i\It was in the district of the Bati. within th* tor.ritory of king Pandion. It was very probably onthe site of the present Cottopatam. O'*] NICA'SIA (Nuroo-(o),a small island near Nana.(Steph. B. ». v.) NICEI'HO'RIUM (Niirn^Vior, Strab. sri. p.747; Plol. v. 18. § 6; Steph. B. f. r.). a place Jconsiderable importance in Mesopotamia, on thr riirrEuphrates. According to Isidoms (.Warns. I'nrtk.i. ed. Muller) and Pliny (v. 24. s. 21. vi. 26. a. 301it owed its foundation to Alexander the Great; ac­cording, however, to Apptan, to Seleucua I., whichis much more likely (Syrinc. c. 57). It is men­tioned by Dion Cassius (xl. 13) and by Taritas(Ann. vi. 40), but simply as one of many townsfounded by the Macedonians. Strabo eaUs il atown of the Mygdonians in Mesopotamia (xvi. p.747). Nothing is known of its intermediate hi'tory;but Justinian erected a fortress here (Prorop. d*Aedif. ii. 7); and the emperor Leo, who probablyadded several new works to it, is and to barschanged its name to I*euntopoli*. (C'f. Hienrl.p. 715; and Chron. EJess. ap. Aaemani. L p.405.) [V.] NICEPHOTUUS, an affluent of the Tigris, wb^hwashed the walls of Tigranorerta (Tat Ann. xr. 4),now the Bitlis-chai. which rises at BatJk A'aaa,on the S. of JeM .Ximrid, anil W. of Lnbt Vm.(Chesney, F.zped. F.nphrat. vol. i. p. 19; Hitter,Erdkunde, vol. x. p. 88.) Kiepert's map idrtrtinVsit with the Jnedchane Su. [E. B, J.l NICER (the \eekar\ a tributary of the Khm».having its sources not far from those of tl>e DsanV.and discharging itself into the Rhine in the nriri*bonrhood of Manheim. Its course f<-rou a »nrt atsemicircle, as it first flows in a north-ea>?mi *=4afterwards in a north-western direction. The Skwis not mentioned until a late period of the IIeiiEmpire. In A. r». 319, the emperor Yalrntiman h»lto make great efforts in turnin- some past of the