OCR Output MENAPII. 327 HENAPIA. late period. There is little doubt that it is the citymeant bv Oiodorus (xiv. 78, where the editions havelure*.*', a name certainly corrupt), which was re­duced by Dionysius in B.C. 396, together withMorgantis and other cities of the Siculi. It is men­tioned more then once by Cicero among the muni­cipal towns of Sicily, and seems to have been atolerably flourishing place, the inhabitant* of whichcarried on agriculture to a considerable extent.(Cic rerr. iii. 22, 43.) It is enumerated also bySiliua Italicus among the cities of Sicily, and byPlinr among the stipendiary towns of that island,and "its name is found also in Ptolemy. (HI. Ital.liv. 266; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 13.) Thisis the last notice of it that occurs; but there is nod.mbt that the modern town of M'mio retains thename, and probably the site, of Menacnum. It issituated on a lofty hill, forming part of a rangewhich sweeps round from Falagonia to Caltagirone,and forms the boundary of a deep basin, in thecentre of which is a small plain, with the volcaniclike now called Logo di A'qflia, which is unques-ti.>nably the ancient Lacus Palicorum. No ruinsare now extant at Mtnco; but the coins of Me-roenum, which are numerous, though only of copper,attest the consideration which it anciently en­joyed. [E- H- B.] COTS OF MEXAEKEM. MEXA'PIA (MfKairia, Ptol. vi. 11. § 8), a mull place in Bactriana in the immediate neigh-fc.urhot<l of Eucratidia. It is probably the sameas that called Mksapila by Ammianus (xxiii.6> [V-] MEXA'PII, a people of North Gallia. In Caesar'stime (B. G. iv. 4) the Menapii were on both sidesof the lower Rhine, where they had arable farms,buildings, and small towns. Tiie Usipetes andand Tenctheri, who were Germans, being hard pressedby the Suevi, came to the Rhine, surprised and mas­sacred the Menapii on the east bank, and then cross-inc over spent the winter on the west side, and livedat free cost among the Menapii. The history ofthese marauders is told elsewhere. [Usipetes.]On tbe west side of the Rhine the Eburones werethe immediate neighbours of the Menapii (B. G.vi. 5). and they were between the Menapii and theTrtriri. The Menapii were protected by continuoustwinips and forests. On the south and on the coasttbe lienapii bordered on the Morini. Caesar docsa* state this distinctly; but he mentions the Mea»fii (B. G. a. 4) among the Belgian confederatesont to the Morini; and the Menapii were said to beable to raise 7000 fighting men. As the Venetiwujhl the aid of the Morini and Menapii in their war«nh Caesar, we mast conclude that they had ships,«r their aid would have been useless (B. G. iii. 9).Caesar describes all Gallia as reduced to obedienceat tbe close of the summer of B. c. 56, except theMtrini and Menapii (B. G. iii. 28), who were pro­tected agunst the Roman general for this season bythrtr i.rt«u and the bad weather. The next year(a. c 55), iamiediately before sailing for Britannia, Caesar sent two of his legati to invade the countryof the Menapii and those Pagi of the Morini whichhad not made their submission (B. G. iv. 22).After his return from Britannia Caesar sent La-bienus against the Morini with the legions whichhad been brought back from Britannia. The summerhad been dry, and as the marshes did not protectthe Morini, as in the year before, most of them werecompelled to yield. The troops which had beensent against the Menapii under the two legati ra­vaged the lands, destroyed the corn, and burnt thehouses; but the people fled to the thickets of theirforests, and saved themselves from their cruel enemy.(B. G. iv. 38.) In b. c. 53 Caesar himself entered the countryof the Menapii with five legions unincumbered withbassrage. The Menapii were the only Galli who hadnever sent ambassadors to Caesar about peace, andthey were allies of Ambiorix, king of the Eburones,Caesar's enemy. Trusting to the natural protectionof their country, the Menapii did not combine theirforces, but fled to the forests and marshes, carryingtheir property with them. Caesar entered theircountry with his army in three divisions, afterhaving with great rapidity made his bridges overthe rivers, but he does not mention any names. Thebuildings and villages were burnt, and a greatnumber of cattle and men were captured. The Me­napii prayed for peace, gave hostages, and were toldthat their hostages would be put to death, if theyallowed Ambiorix to come within their borders.With this threat Caesar quitted the country that hohad ravaged, leaving Conim the Atrebat, one of hisslavish Gallic tools, with a body of cavalry to keepwatch over the Menapii. (B. G. vi. 5, 6.) It appears from Caesar's narrative that this peoplehad farms.arablcUnd.and cattle; and probably ships.They wero not savages, but a people with somecivility. Caesar's narrative also leads us to inferthat the Menapii on the coast bordered on the Morini,as Strabo (iv. pp. 194, 199) says. Pliny (iv. 17) alsomakes the Menapii and Morini conterminous on thocoast, but he makes the Scaldis (Scheldt) thonorthern limit of the Menapii; and he places theToxandri north of the Schelde. D'Anville (Notice,<fc., Strrii) attempts to show, against the authorityof the ancient writers, that the Nervii extended tothe coast, and consequently were between the Moriniand the Menapii. But it is here assumed as provedthat the Morini on the coast bordered on the Menapii,who in Caesar'* time at least extended along thecoast from the northern boundary of the Morinito the territory of the Batavi. [BatavokumInsula.] , Walckenacr proves, as he supposes, that the riverAas, from its source to its outlet, was the boundarybetween the Morini and the Menapii. Tho Au» isthe dull stream which flows by St. Oiner, and ismade navigable to Grarelints. Accordingly homakes the hill of Cause I, which is east of the A m,to be the Castellum Menapiorum of the Table. Thisquestion is examined under Castellum Mom-NOHUM. The boundary on the coast between thoMorini and Menapii is unknown, but it may, per­haps, have been as far north as fltmienpie. As theEburones about Tongern and Spa were the neigh­bours of the Menapii of Caesar on the east, woobtain a limit of the Menapii in that direction. Onthe north their botmdnry was the Rhine; and on thosouth the Nervii. Under Augustus some Germanpeoples, Ubii, Sicambri [Guokbsi], and others,