OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 329 Herod was supposed to be dead, yet was not that purpose oftheirs a secret; but when the king had conducted Antony on hisway against the Parthians, he returned to Judea, when both hissister Salome, and his mother informed him of Alexandra's in­tentions. Salome also added somewhat farther against Joseph,though it were no more than a calumny, that he had often hadcriminal conversation with Mariamne. The reason of her say­ing so was this, that she for a long time bare her ill-will, forwhen they had differences with one another, Mariamne tookgreat freedoms and reproached the rest for the meanness of theirbirth. But Herod, whose affection to Mariamne was alwaysvery warm, was presently disturbed at this, and could not bearthe torments of jealousy, but was still restrained from doing anyrash thing to her by the love he had for her: yet did his vehe­ment affection and jealousy together make him ask Mariamne byherself about this matter of Joseph; but she denied it upon heroath, and said all that an innocent woman could possibly say inher own defence, so that by little and little the king was prevail­ed upon to drop the suspicion, and left off his anger at her; andbeing overcome with his passion for his wife, he made an apolo­gy to her for having seemed to believe what he had heard abouther, and returned her a great many acknowledgments of her mo­dest behaviour, and professed the extraordinary affection andkindness he had for her, till at last, as is usual between lovers,they both fell into tears, and embraced one another with a mosttender affection. But as the king gave more and more assur­ances of his belief of her fidelity, and endeavoured to draw her toa like confidence in him, Mariamne said, "Yet was not that"command thou gavest, that if any harm came to thee from"Antony, I, who had been no occasion of it, should perish with"thee, a sign of thy love to me." When these words were fall­en from her, the king was shocked at them, and presently let hergo out of his arms, and cried out, and tore his hair with his ownhands, and said, that " now he had an evident demonstration that"Joseph had had criminal conversation with his wife, for that"he would never have uttered what he had told him alone by"himself, unless there had been such a great familiarity and firm"confidence between them." And while he was in this passionhe had like to have killed his wife, but being still overborne byhis love to her, he restrained this his passion, though not with­out a lasting grief, and disquietness of mind. However, he gaveorder to slay Joseph, without permitting him to come into hissight; and as for Alexandra, he bound her, and kept her incustody, as the cause of all this mischief.