OCR Output rnLTGOSTUM. PHOCIS. 603 rairCOMUM {*\*yinm), a city of PhocU,a* nkwiwn site, dntroyed at t be end of the PhocUn(Put. i 3. § 2; Steph. B. f. ».) Plinyau I Phr/row. «"d emneously represents it as aki t Bartia (ir. 7. a. IS). F80CAEA (♦warn: £«*. *wraii<) or +»-•il Ihf DM northern of the Ionian cities intie M<*r, wis situated on a peninsula, betweenj Sn Crraatui and the Sims Hermeeus, andl i tatiwt of MO stadia from Smyrna. (Strab. j. US; Pirn. v. 31; Pomp. Mela, i. 17.) Iti> aj u, hut been founded by emigrants fromsafer the guidance of two Athenian chiefs,liwi aai Duma. (Strab. / c. p. 633 ; Paus.a X ( 5.) The first settlers did not conquer thet! n. tai mired it a> a gift from the Cumaeans.t» txn, however, did not become a member of'!-tj» moMency until it placed princes of theweL'aba* st the head of the government. It had'■■ i-roeit harbour*. Nanstathimis and Lampter,1 ham the entrance into them was situated the'■ okas of Beocheiou, which was adorned with•pa mi splendid buildings (Lie. xxxviii. 22);i >«t!>e to this favourable position, and the enter-as: 'frit of its inhabitants, the town soon rose Ir*ii fliti&eace smong the maritime cities of the"K'jrld. Herodotus (i. 163, &C.) states that1 Tmnm were the first Greeks who undertooken r*vr3. and made tliemselves acquainted > a* outs of the Adriatic, and the TyrrhenianI uvnes aeai; and that they were the first to ■ U-vtta Arganthonias, king of the Tartes-1 Saras* ao attached to them as to try to pre-I "fx them to quit Ionia and settle in his ownham; hat aa their declining this, he gave themwj. un of money to fortify their own cityaw ths Persians. The Phocaeane accordingly*»W their city by a wall of several stadia inratrrsoi, and of a very solid construction. In*» sf Cyrus, Phocaea was one of the first townsI *v he»«yed by the army of Cyrus, under the•awl sf liarpagus. When called npon to sur- '!* Phrcwans, conscious of being unable to* thf esenjy much longer, asked and obtained a»•) are day, pretending that they wotdd con-'ha prspaal. But in the interval they etn­as wife tbyr wires and children and their most■h raVrt*. and sailed to Chios. There theyfcnd by purchase to obtain possession of the ■ a? nlaoia called Oenuasae, and belonging to■■"»; iot their request being refused, theyha i» sail to Corsica, where twenty years before ► wooreaon they had planted the colony ofk B-f*v setting out they landed at Pho-I ■< pat the Persian garrison to the sword,'ties boond themselres by a solemn oath to•a their satire country; nevertheless, however,•af 4 their aurrber, unable to overcome theirW. "Taraed behind. The rest proceeded toas.«aer» they were kindly received by their Sna they became formidable to thejharkf satioas by their piracy and depre-a> that the Tyrrhenian* and Carthaginians ■ " fcsrm their power. The Phocaeans suc-"-jH a defeating their enemies, but their*» b treat that they despaired of being able■wataatantest, and proceeded to Rhegium, in■»■* «* Italy. Sot long after their arrival there,*~" odsord to settle at Klaea or Velia, inaav vara, in tlie course of time, became a tows. Among the numerous colonies of the Phocaeans the most important was Mass ilia orMarseilles, in the south of France, and the mostwestern Maenaca, in Hispania Baetica. After theemigration of half the population, Phocaea continuedto exist under the Persian dominion; but was greatlyreduced in its commerce and prosperity, as we mayinfer from the fact that it furnished only three shipsto the fleet of the revolted Ionians at the battle ofLade; but their commander was nevertheless theablest man among the Ionians. (Herod, vi. 11—17.) After these events Phocaea is tittle mentioned(Thucyd. i. 13, viii. 31; Horn. Hymn, i. 35; Scy-lax, p. 37); but some centuries later, in the war ofthe Romans against Antiochns, when Phocaea wasbesieged by a Roman fleet, Livy (xxxvii. 31) de­scribes the place as follows:—" The town is situ­ated in the inmost recess of a bay; its shape is ob­long, and its walls enclose a space of 2500 paces;they afterwards unite so as to form a narrowerwedge: this they themselves call Lampter, aud it isabout 1200 paces in breadth. A tongue of landrunning out into the sea a distance of 1000 paces,divides the bay nearly into two equal parts, andforms on each side of the narrow i-thnius a very safeport. The one towards the sooth was called Nau-stathmus, from its being able to contain a greatnumber of ships, the other was situated close to theLampter.'' On that occasion the town was taken bythe Romans, after a desperate resistance, and givenup to plunder by the praetor Aetuilius, though theinhabitants had voluntarily opened their gates. Thetown with its territory, however, was restored to theinhabitants by Aemilius. (Liv. I e. 32; Polyb.xxii. 27, comp. v. 77, ixi. 4; Liv. xxxviii. 39.)At a still later period the Phocaeans offended theRomans by supporting the cause of Aristonicus, theclaimant of the throne of Pergamum; and they wouldhave been severely punished had not the inhabitantsof Massilia interceded in their behalf. (Justin,xxxvii. 1, xliii. 3; Strab. p. 646.) The existenceof Phocaea can be traced throughout the imperialperiod from coins, which extend down to the time ofthe Philips, and even through the period of theLower Empire. (HierocL p. 661.) From MichaelDucas {Ann. p. 89) we learn that a new town wasbuilt not far from the ancient city by some Genoese,in a. D. 1421. This latter, situated on the isth­mus mentioned by Livy, not far from the ruins ifthe ancient city, is the place now called FoggiaNova: the ruins bear the name of Palaeo Foggia.(Chandler, TVaceij, p. 96; Arundell, Seven Churches.p. 294; Hamilton, Researches, ii. p. 4; Kckhel,Doctr. Num. ii. p. 53, &e.; Rasche, Lex. Ret A'um.iii. 2, p. 1225, Ate.; Sestini, p. 83; Thisquen, Pho-caira, Bonn, 1842, 8vo.) Another town of the same name in the peninsulaof Mount Mycale, in Caria, is mentioned by Ste-phanus B. (». t>.> [L. S.] COn> OF PHOCAEA. PHOCEAE. [LBomnm, p. 159, b.] PHO'CICUM. [Phocis.] PHOCIS (rj ♦wall: £(*.♦»*€*», Phocensia), asmall country in central Greece, bounded on the N.by Doris, on the NE and E. by the Locri Kpicnemidiiand Opontii, on the SE. by Boeotia, on the W. by ilia