OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF fHE ROMAN EMPIRE. 233 Assyria the pleasures of a Greek capital. By the mu­nificence of the royal founder, a liberal allowance wasassigned to these fortunate exiles; and they enjoyed thesingular privilege of bestowing freedom on the slaveswhom they acknowledged as their kinsmen. Palestine,and the holy wealth of Jerusalem, were the next objectsthat attracted the ambition, or rather the avarice, of Chos- ■ .roes. Constantinople, and the palace of the Caesars, nolonger appeared impregnable or remote; and his aspir­ing fancy already covered Asia Minor with the troops,and the black sea with the navies, of Persia. These hopes might have been realized, if the con- Defence ofqueror of Italy had not been seasonably recalled to the BMiMrftu'defence of the east.' While Chosroes pursued his am- A"D"iiubitious designs on the coast of the Euxine, Belisarius atthe head of an army without pay or discipline, encamp­ed beyond the Euphrates, within six miles of Nisibis.He meditated, by a skilful operation, to draw the Per­sians from their impregnable citadel, and improving hisadvantage in the field, either to intercept their retreat,or perhaps to enter the gates With the flying barbarians.He advanced one day's journey on the territories of Per­sia, reduced the fortress of Sisaurane, and sent the go­vernor, with eight hundred chosen horsemen, to servethe emperor in his Italian wars. He detached Arethasand his Arabs, supported by twelve hundred Romans, topass the Tigris, and to ravage the harvests of Assyria, afruitful province, long exempt from the calamities of war.But the plans of Belisarius were disconcerted by the un-tractable spirit of Arethas, who neither returned to thecamp, nor sent any intelligence of his motions. TheRoman general was fixed in anxious expectation to thesame spot; the time of action elapsed, the ardent sun ofMesopotamia inflamed with fevers the blood of his Eu­ropean soldiers; and the stationary troops and officers of r In the public history of Procopius, (Persic. lib. 2. c. 16. 18—21. 21—28.) unciwith some slight exceptions, we may reasonably shot our ears against the malevolentwhisper of the Anecdotes, (c. 2, 3. with the notes, as usual, of Alomaunus.) VOL. V. R