OCR Output 20 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK I. rity from the female line, under pretence of doing ho­nour to Rhea Sylvia, Numitbr's daughter, he got heradmitted a vestal virgin, which condemned her to per­petual virginity. - I I !.• CHAP. IV. «Rhea Sylvia with child to Mars. Romulus and Remus born. JjUT, if I am not mistaken, we must look for theorigin of so extraordinary a city, and the foundation ofan empire, in power inferior only to that of the gods,in the records of fate. The vestal was surprised, forced,and delivered of twins; whom, either because she reallythought so, or because a god was a more honourablecloak for her offence, she fathered upon Mars. Butneither gods nor men screened her from the cruelty ofthe king : the vestal was put in close confmement; andthe infants were ordered to be thrown into the Tiber,where the current was most rapid. \ By the interpositionof some divinity, the river had, at that time, overflowedits banks; upon which the waters stood diffused in stillpools, which rendered the channel quite inaccessible.They who were charged with the execution of the orders,thinking the water, however still, would be sufficient todrown the infants, laid them down in the nearest pool,where now stands the Ruminalis ficus *; formerly, bytradition, the ficus Romularis, concluding, that they hadnow fairly done their duty. The country was, at that time, a vast wilderness: and,it is said, that after the water had subsided and leftthe trough, or skift, in which the infants had been ex­posed, upon dry ground, a thirsty she-wolf coming downfrom the neighbouring mountains, was led to the placeby their cries, and bended with so much complacencyto suckle them, that she was found by the king's shepherdgently licking them with her tongue. It is said theshepherd's name was Faustulus, and that he brought * fii some copies we find Viciis Ruminalis, which appears to bethe true reading, for it is hardly probable that a fig-tree in Ro­mulus' time, would be standing in the days of I.ivy.