OCR Output TYR0S. TYRUS, 1251 tar, Alexander, and Antigonus. [Piiokxicia, pp.610—613]. Th»t by Alexander was so remark­able, and had so much influence on the topographyof Tm, that we reserved the details of it for thisplace, ai they may be collected from the narra­tors of Arrian (Annb. ii. 17—26), Diodorus Si-coloa (rrii. 40—4S), and Q Cunins (iv. 4—27).The insular situation of Tyre, the height andMrragth of its walls, and the command which itriossfKsed of the sea, seemed to render it impregnable;and hence the Tynans, when summoned by Alexandert<> nurrender, prepared for an obstinate resistance.The only method which occurred to the mind of thatcuiquenir of overcoming the difficulties presented tohis arms by the site of Tyre, was to connect it withthe mainland by means of a mole. The materialsfar such a structure were at hand in abundance.The deserted buildings of Palae-Tyrua affordedplenty of stone, the mountains of Lebanon an inex­haustible supply of timber. For a certain distance,the mole, which was 200 feet in breadth, proceededrapidly and successfully, though Alexander's work­man were often harassed by parties of Tyrian troops,olio landed in boats, M well as by the Arabs ofthe Syrian desert. But as the work approached thei'land, the difficulties increased in a progressive ratio.Xnt only was it threatened with destruction fromthe depth and force of the current, often increasedto violence by a southerly wind, but the workmenwere also exposed to the missiles of the Tyrianijingrra and bowmen, aimed both from vessels andfrom the battlements of the city. To guard them­selves) from these attacks, the Macedonians erectedt»o lofty wooden towers at the extremity of themole, and covered them with hides as a protectionajairtst fire. The soldiers placed on these towers-rrasioned the Tynans considerable annoyance. Atl-^icth, however, the latter succeeded in setting fireto toe towers by means of a fire-ship filled with com-l*ntible&; and afterwards, making a sortie in theirSoau, pulled up the stakes which protected thein.Ir, and destroyed tho machines which the firehid not reached. To complete the discomfiture oftiie Macedonians, a great storm arose and carriedaway the whole of the work which had been thusl'-»»enpd. This misf irtnne, which would have damped theardour of an ordinary man, only incited Alexandert" renew his efforts with greater vigour and on a*arer plan. He ordered a new mole to be con­gruous!, broader than the former one; and in orderta obviate the danger of destruction by the waves, he:au«ed it to incline towards the SW., and thus to-t*s the channel diagonally, instead of in a straightline. At the same time he collected a large fleet from■•Hon, whither he went in person, from Soli, Mallus,uvl other places; for, with the exception of Tyre, allI'homiria was already in the hands of Alexander.II« then made an incursion into Coelesyria, and liased away the Arabs who annoyed his workmenrmployed in cutting timber in Antilibanus. When heigain retained to Tyre with his fleet, which he hudocned at Sadon, the new mole had already made great mgresa. It was formed of whole trees with theirranches, covered with layers of stone, on which>thrr trees were heaped. The Tyrian divers, indeed,ometimes succeeded in loosening the structurey pulling out the trees; but, in spite of theseHurts, the work proceeded Bteadily towards com-Jetion. The targe fleet which Alexander had assembled struck terror into the Tyrians, who now confinedthemselves to defensive measures. They sent awaythe old men, women, and children to Carthage, andclosed the months of their harbours with a line oftriremes. It is unnecessary to recount all the inci­dents which followed, and we shall therefore confineourselves to the most important. Alexander hadcaused a number of new machines to be prepared,under the direction of the ablest engineers of Phoe­nicia and Cyprus. Some of these were planted mithe mole, which now very nearly approached thecity; others were placed on board large vessels, inorder to batter the walls on other sides. Variouswere the devices resorted to by the Tyrians to frus­trate these attempts. They cut the cables of thovessels bearing the battering rams, and thus sentthem adrift; but this mode of defence was met bythe use of iron mooring chains. To deaden thoblows of the battering engines, leathern bags filledwith sea-weed were suspended from the walls, whilston their summit were erected large wheel-like ma­chines rilled with soft materials, which being set inrapid motion, either averted or intercepted the mis­siles hurled by the Macedonians. A second wallalso was commenced within the first. On the otherhand, the Macedonians, having now carried the moleas far as the island, erected towers upon it equal inheight to the walls of the town, from which bridgeswere projected towards the battlements, in order totake the city by escalade. Yet, after all the la­bour bestowed upon the mole, Tyre was not capturedby means of it. The Tyrians annoyed the soldierswho manned the towers by throwing out grapplinghooks attached to lines, and thus dragging themdown. Nets were empluyed to entangle the hands ofthe assailants; masses of red-hot metal were hurledamongst them, and quantities of heated sand, which,getting between the interstices of the armour, causedintolerable pain. An attempted assault from thebridges of the towers was repulsed, and does not ap­pear to have been renewed. Hut a breach was madein the walls by battering rams fixed on vessels; andwhilst this was assaulted by means of ships providedwith bridges, simultaneous attacks were directedagainst both the harbours. The Phoenician fleetburst the boom of the Kgryptian harbour, and took ordestroyed the ships within it. The northern har­bour, the entrance of which was undefended, waseasily taken by the Cyprian fleet. MeanwhileAlexander had entered with his troops through thebreach. Provoked by the long resistance of theTyrians and the obstinate defence still maintainedfrom tho roofs of the houses, the Macedonian soldieryset fire to the city, and massacred 8000 of the inha­bitants. The remainder, except those who fouudshelter on board the Siduni.in fleet, were sold intoslavery, to the number of 30,000; and 2000 werecrucified in expiation of the murders of certain Ma­cedonians duriug the course of the siege. The livesof the king and chief magistrates were spared. Thus was Tyre captured, after a siege of sevenmonths, in July of the year u. c. 332. Alexanderthen ordered sacrifices and games in honour of theTyrian Hercules, and consecrated to him the batter­ing ram which had made the first breach in thewalls. The population, which had been almost de­stroyed, was replaced by new colonists, of whom aconsiderable portion seein to hare been Carians. Thesubsequent fortunes of Tyre have already been re­corded. [Phoksicia, p. 613.] For the coins of Tyre are EckheL Their. Num. 4 L 2