OCR Output 698 SAMOS. SAMOS. this part of the island, has probably given rise to thename by which it is now called (tj KOTatSarf/). Tlie position of Samos was nearly opposite theboundary-line of Curia and Ionia; and its earlytraditions connect it, first with Car tans and Leleges,and then with Ionians. The first Ionian colony issaid to have consisted of settlers from Epidaurus,who were expelled from thence by the Argives.However this may be, we find Samos at an earlyperiod in the position of a powerful member of theIonic confederacy. At this time it was highly dis­tinguished in maritime enterprise and the science ofnavigation. Thucydides tells us (i. 13) that theSamiana were among the first to make advances innaval construction, and that for this purpose theyavailed themselves of the services of Ameinocles theCorinthian shipbuilder. The story of Pliny (vii. 57),that either they or Pericles the Athenian first con­structed transports for the conveyance of horses,though less entitled to literal acceptance, is wellworthy of mention; and Samos will always befamous for the voyage of her citizen Cohens, who,"not without divine direction" (Herod, it. 152). fir.-tpenetrated through the Pillars of Hercules into theOcean, and thus not only opened out new fields ofcommercial enterprise, but enlarged the geographicalideas of the Greeks by making them for the firsttime familiar with the phenomenon of the tides. Under the despot Polycrates, Samos was in factthe greatest Greek maritime power. This famousman, about ten years after the taking of Surd is byCyrus, helil Samos in a position of proud independ­ence, when Lesbue and Chios had submitted to thePersians. He bad 1000 bowmen in his pay; hepossessed 100 ships of war, and made considerableconquests both among the islands and the mainland.He fought successfully against the Milesians andLesbians, and made a treaty with Amasis, king ofE^Tpt Whether we are to take the story in thepoetical form in which it is presented to us by He­rodotus, or to attribute the change to the moreprobable motive of self-interest, this treaty wasbroken off for an alliance with Cambyses. In con­nection with this monarch's expedition to the Nile,some Samian malcontents were so treacherouslytreated by Polycrates, that they sought and obtainedassistance from Greece. A joint force of Lacedae­monians and Corinthians besieged Polycrates inSamos for forty days; but in this struggle also hewns successful. At last his own cupidity, acted on bythe fraud of Oroetes, a neighbouring satrap, broughthim to a wretched death on the mainland. Thetime which succeeded was full of crime and calamityfor Samos. In the end, Syloson, the brother ofPolycrates (whose association with Cambyses is thesubject of another romantic story in Herodotus),landed with a Persian army on Samos, and becamea tributary despot; but not till his native island hadbeen so depopulated as to give rise to the proverbtKijri "XuXoauti/Tos tvpuxttipirj. For details see thelives of PoLTCftATBS and Syloson in the Diet ofBiograpkjf. It was at this period that Pythagoras,who was a native of Samos, left the island to travelin foreign countries, being partly urged to leave hishome (according to Plutarch, PiadL i. 3) throughdiscontent under the government of Polycrates,who. however, was a patron of literature, and hadAnacreon many years at his court. For the chro­nology of this period sec Clinton, Fast Hell. vol. ii.note il. pp. 230—2.32. Samos was now Persian. It was from Samos that Datls sailed to Marathon, taking Knot ao bis iBat the dominion of the Persians did act iafi faWhen their fleet was gathered at Santa sthe battle of Salamis, to the number of 400 iwas in a great measure the urgency of Ivoys which induced the commander* of the (fleet at Delos to go across to the eastern ait of 1Aegaean. Then followed that battle in the iwhich completed the liberation of the Greak*. In the maritime confederacy which Isoon afterwards under Athenian rule, Sctm ito have l>een the most powerful of the ihree swhich were exempted from paying tribute, b «at the instance of her eitiien* that the <treasure was removed from Delos to Atheithis friendship witpj Athens wu turned iot» Ienmity in consequence of a conflict with Vabout the territory of Priene. Samosvolted; and a large force was despatched fragainst it under the command of ten iof whom were Sophocles and Pericles. Tat Jpronounced in the Cerameicus the funeral (over those who had fallen in the w&r which, ■resistance of nine months, reduced Samoa teesubjection. From 439 to 412 Samoa remained 1fications and without a fleet. But about ibis"date it became the hinge upon which all ieluding events of the Peloponnesian War really*The first movements toward* thean oligarchy at Athens began at Samoa lintrigues of Alcibiades ; and yet thispractically the home of the Athenianduring the struggle which ensued. It *that Alcibiades rejoined his fellow-*from Samos that he finally sailed for:in 407. Even till after the battle atSamos was, more than any other place, :> -quarters and base of operations tur the .""fleet. Our notices of the island now become imentary. After the death of Alexander*it was for a time subject to the kinfs of 1(Polyb. v. 35.) Subsequently, it took the)Antiochus the Great in his war withalso acted with Mithridates ..; . ..-t Kucne; 1finally united with the province of Aaia IAfter the battle of Actiuin, Augustaswinter there. Under the Roman emperor* itswhole a place of no great importance, 1the honour of being a free state. (PUn, Iprivilege was taken away under VespeaiacCorp. 8.) In the diviMon of the Empire tthe Synecdemus we find it placed with fChios, &c, in the IVormce of the Idlater division into theme*, it seems to be jto a distinguished position. It gar*separate theme, which included a largethe mainland, and was divided into the 1Kphesus and Adramyttium, thehis residence (apafrayMor) at Surjrnm; jrangement is spoken of in aoch a way (Cphyrog. de Them. I c.) as distinct!/ towith the ancient renown of Sairma. It would be difficult to toikiw theSamos through the middle ages. ;SHistory of the Byumtine and Gmk fp. 112.) There are some points of <terest in its modern history. In 1550,sacked by the Ottomans, it was p*the Capitan Pacha Ochiali, who introdnoal i