OCR Output CHAP. XLII.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 203 the mode of revenge which Justinian embraced. Insteadof asserting the rights of a sovereign for the protectionof his subjeets, the emperor invited a strange people toinvade and possess the Roman provinces between theDanube and the Alps; and the ambition of the Gepida?was checked by the rising power and fame of the Lom­bards.8 This corrupt appellation has been diffused in j^1'^ Lom"the thirteenth century by the merchants and bankers,the Italian posterity of these savage warriors: but theoriginal name of Langobards is expressive only of thepeculiar length and fashion of their beards. I am notdisposed either to question or to justify their Scandina­vian origin;11 nor to pursue the migrations of the Lom­bards through unknown regions artd marvellous adven­tures. About the time of Augustus and Trajan, a rayof historic light breaks on the darkness of their antiqui­ties, and they are discovered, for the first time, betweenthe Elbe and the Oder. Fierce, beyond the example oftheGermans, they delighted to propagate the tremendousbelief, that their heads were formed like the heads ofdogs, and that they drank the blood of their enemieswhom they vanquished in battle. The smallness of theirnumbers was recruited by the adoption of their bravestslaves ; and alone, amidst their powerful neighbours, theydefended by arms their high-spirited independence. Inthe tempests of the north, which overwhelmed so manynames and nations, this little bark of the Lombards stillfloated on the surface : they gradually descended towardsthe south and the Danube: and at the end of four hun­dred years they again appear with their ancient valour ( Gens Germana feritate ferociur, says Velleius Paterculus or the Lomhards.(2. 106.) Langohardos paucitas nohilitat. Plurimis ac valentissimis nationibuseiucti don per obsequium sed prrcliis et periclitando tuti sunt. (Tacit. de MoribusGerman. c. 40.) See likewise Strabo. (lib. 7. p. 446.) The best geographers place(hem beyond the Elbe,in the hishoprick of Magdburegh and the middle march of Bran.denburgh; and their situation will agree with the patriotio remark of the count deHertzburg, that most of the harharian conquerors issued from the same countrieswhich still produce the armies of Prussia. h The Scandinavian origin of the Gotbs and Lomhards, as stated by Paul Warne- «•rid, surnamed the deacon, is attacked by Cluverius, (Germaiiia Anticj. lib. 3. c. 26.p. 103, &o.) a native of Prussia, and defended by Grotiusj (Prolegom. ad Hist. Goth,p. 28, &c.) the Swedish amhassador. P 2