OCR Output 468 DISSERTATION I. tiles also, he must manifestly have had somewhat in himextraordinary above the rest of mankind; for how otherwisecould he draw over so many of the Jews and of the Gentiles,unless he performed admirable and amazing works, and useda method of teaching that was not common ? Moreover, thescripture of the Acts of the Apostles bear witness, that therewere many ten thousands of Jews who were persuaded thathe was the Christ of God, who was foretold by the prophets[Acts xi. 20.] About A. D. 330. Hist. Eccleg. lib. i. cap. 11. —Now thedivine scripture of the gospels makes mention of John theBaptist as having his head cut off by the younger Herod.Josephus also concurs in this history, and makes mention ofHerodias by name, as wife of his brother, whom Herod hadmarried, upon divorcing his former lawful wife. She was thedaughter of Aretas, king of the Petrcan Arabians; andwhich Herodias he had parted from her husband while he wasalive: on which account also, when he had slain John, hemade war with Aretas [Aretas made war with him,] becausehis daughter had been used dishonorably: in which war,when it came to a battle, he says that all Herod's army wasdestroyed, and that he suffered this because of his wickedcontrivance against John. Moreover, the same Josephus, byacknowledging John to have been a most righteous man, andthe Baptist, conspires in his testimony with what is writtenin the gospels. He also relates, that Herod lost his kingdomfor the sake of the same Herodias, together with whom hewas himself condemned to be banished to Vienna, a city of_Gaul. And tins is his account in the eighteenth book of theAntiquities, where he writes thus of~JoIm verbatim: — Someof the Jews thought that the destruction of Herod's armycame from God, and that very justly, as a punishment forwhat he did against John that was called the Baptist, forHerod slew him, who was a good man, and one that com­manded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousnesstowards one another, and piety towards God, and so to cometo baptism, for that by this means the washing [with water]would appear acceptable to him, when they made use of it,