OCR Output 60 IOLAI. IONIA. Cae.«arca is now identified, beyond nil doubt, withthe magnificent ruins at Zer$hell on the coast ofAlgier, in a little more than 2° K. long. TheArabic name is simply an abbreviation of CaemreaJol; a fact clear to the intuitive sagacity of Shaw,and which, in connection with the statements ofthe ancients, led that incomparable traveller to thetruth. Unfortunately, however, nearly all sub­sequent writer* preferred to follow the thick-headedMannert, who was misled by an error in the An-tonine Itinerary, whereby all the places along thiscoast, for a considerable distance, are thrown too farto the \V\; until the researches which followed theFrencli conquest of the country revealed inscriptionswhich set the question at rest for ever. There existfew stronger examples of tiint golden rule of criti­cism :— ** Ponderanda sunt testimonia, non ntrnir-ramk" (Shaw, Travels, vol. i. pt. 1. c. 3; Harth,W'amlervmgen, p. 56; PelHssier, in the ExplorationScientifepie da TAlgeria, vol. vi. p. 349.) [I*. S.] IOLAI or IOLAEXSKS (ToAaoi, Pans.; *Io-Acuhoi, Diod.; 'loAacii, Strab. v. p. 22.r>), a |<eople(<f Sardinia, who appear to have been one of theindigenous or native tribes of the island. Accordingto Strabo, they were the same people who werecalled in his day l)iagesbians or Diagebrians (Aia-ynfytJs or Aiayno€us), a name otherwise unknown:and he adds that they were a Tyrrhenian (icople, astatement in itself not improbable. The commonlyreceived tradition, however, represented them at a(■reek race, composed of emigrants from Attica amiThcspiae, who had settled in the island under thecommand of Iolaus, the nephew of Hercules. (Pans.x. 17. § 5; Diod. iv. 30? v. 15.) It is evidentthat this legend was derived from the resemblanceof the name (in the form which it assumed accord­ing to the Greek pronunciation) to that of Iolaus:what the native form of the name was, we knownot; and it is not mentioned by any Latin author,though both Pau-anias and Di odor us affirm that itwas still retained by the part of the i>land whichhail been inhabited by the lolai. Hence, modemwriters have assumed that the name is in realitythe same with that of the Ilieuses, which wouldseem probable enough; but Pausomas, the onlywriter who mentions them both, expressly dis­tinguishes the two. That author sjieaks of Olbia,in the NK. part of the island, as one of their chieftowns. Diudorus represents them, on the contrary,as occupying the plains and most fertile portionsof the inland, while the district adjoining Olbia isone of the most rugged and mountainous in Sar­dinia. [K. H. B.] IOLCUS ('ImAkoj, Ep. 'Io«A*rrfj, I>or. 'loAitdr:Kih. 'I&SAkios, fern. 'IuAxir, 'IwAicfai), an ancientcity of Magnesia in Thessaly, situated at the head ofthe Pogouean gulf and at the foot of Mt. I'elion(l'ind Ainu. iv. 88), and celebrated in the heroicages as the residence of Jason, and the place wherethe Argonauts assembled. [See Diet of liiogr. artt.Jason and AhouNaltak.] It is mentioned byHomer, who gives it the epithets of i\nciiti**nt\ andivpuxopoi (//. ii. 712, Od xi. 256). It is saidto hare born founded by C ret he us (Apollod. i. 9. §11), and to hare been colonised by Minyans fromOrchomeno*. (Strab. ix. p. 414.) lolcus is rarelymentioned in historical times. It was given by theThessalions to Hippias, upon his expulsion fromAthens. (Herod, v. 94.) The town afterwards suf-ferrd from the dis<*en>i<>n.t of its inhabitants, but itwas finally ruined by tho foundation of lstmctrias in n. r. 290, when the inhabitant* of Iolcos and of <vb-radjoining towns were removed to this place. (Strab.ix. p. 436.) It seems to have been no longer in ex­istence in the time of Strabo, 6ince he speaks of tlisplace where Iolcos stood (A t^j "IvKkuv towot, ix.p. 438). The position of Iolcos is indicated by Strabo, whosays that it was on the road from Boebe to I>eme-trias, and at the distance of 7 stadia from the latter(ix. p. 438). In another passage he says thatIolcos is situated above the sea at the distance of7 stadia from Demetrius (ix. p. 436). Pindar aim,as we have already seen, places Iolcos at the foot ofMt. Pelion, consequently a little inland. From thesedescriptions there is little doubt that Leake is richtin placing Iolcos on the steep height between thosouthernmost houses of Vulo and Ylakho-makkaLi,upon which stands a church called KpiskopL "Mm-reare at present no ancient remains at this place; butsome large squared blocks of stone are said to haveformerly existed at the foot of the height, and tohave been carried away for the construction of build­ings elsewhere. Moreover, it is the only »i«ot i:i thoneighbourhood which has any appearance «4" b*-.i<an ancient site. It might indeed appear, fnxn Livy(xliv. 12, 13), that loleus was situated upon thecoast; but in this passage, as well as in Strabo (ix.p. 436), the name of Iolcos seems to have been givento this part of the coast as well as to the city i!**-!*.(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 379; Mezii-rr?,Mimoira tur le Pelion et fOssa, p. 11.) JOMAXES (Plin. vi. 17. a. 21), the most im­portant of the affluents of the Ganges, into which itHows near the city of Allahabad (Pratbdithana).There can I* no doubt that Arrian mean.* the ujiicriver when he speaks of Iobares (Ind c 8); andPtolemy expresses nearly the same bound, whenhe names the Di&muns (vii. 1. § 29). It is nowcalied the Jamuna or Jumna. The Jumna rises inthe highest part of the Himalaya, at no great dis­tance from the sounvs of the Sutledge and Hunan,respectively, in the neighbourhood of Jamuna raturi(Jumnotri), which is probably the most sacred spi»tof Hindu worship. It enters the Iitdiau pUmcountry at Fyzabad, and on its way to join liraGanges it posses the important cities of JJeJUi (In-draprastha) and Agra (Crishmapura), and meivesseveral large tributaries. These affluents, in orderfrom W. to E., are the Sambus (Arrian, lud. c, 4),(probably the t'armanvati or Cambai), the Lt*tnn(or Vetravati), and the C'ainas (Arrian, ic.j Pirn,vi. 19. s. 21: now Guyana or Ccna). Tbe last hasbeen already mentioned as one of the tributaries «.fthe Ganges. £V*3 10MMLM. [Mavkktama.] ION (*!•»»'), • river of Tymphaea in Theasaly,rising in the CambunUn mountains, and flowing iittvthe Pcneius: now river of Ardtsora. (Strab. t.l.p. 327, Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ir }x 646.) ION MONS. [Libya.] IONKS. [Ionia.] IONIA ('lama), also calh-.l Ioni% the countn «4*Asia Minor inhabited by Ionian Greeks, and oum-pruing the we>tern coast from Phocara in the northto Miletus in the south. (Herod, i. 142; Strab. xi\.init.; Plin. v. 31.) Its length from north to smitli,in a straight line, amounted lo 800 stadia, while thelength of its much indented coast amounted to 3430;and th« distance from Kphcsus to Smyrna, in astraight line, was only 320 stadia, while along (1mcoast it reached the large number of 3200. (StraK