OCR Output VIENNA. ■ VIGES1MUM, AD. 1309 Table. It is remarked, too, that Seneca (De MorteClnndii, c. 6) says that Claudius was bom at Lug­dunum (I;,-:, "ad sextum decimnm lapidem aVienna." The real distance from Vienna to theRhone at Lyon is about 17 M. P.; but D'Anvillesuggests that the territory of Lugdunum mar havehad a narrow strip on the south side of the Rhone.There can be no road of 23 M. P. from Lug­dunum to Vienna, unless it be one on the west bankof the Rhine. Strabo (iv. pp. 184, 186) makes thedistance between Lugdunum and Vienna 200 stadiaor 20 M. P., which is too much. Vienna is first mentioned by Caesar (B. G. vii. 9),and only once mentioned. lie had crossed the Ce-mmes into the Amergne in the depth of winter,and be went a«rain over the .mountains to Vienna tomeet a newly-levied cavalry force, which some timel^fore be had seut on thither. Under the EmpireVienna was a great city, and there was rivalry andenmity between it anil Lugdunum. (Tacit. Hist.i. 65.) Mela speaks of it as a flourishing place;and under the Empire it was a Colonia ( Plin. iii. 4;Tacit. Hist, i. 66), before the time of Claudius, whospeaks of it in his Omtio (super Civitate Gallis danda);"Orcatisaiina ecce Colonia valentissimaque Vien-censium, quam longo jam tempore senatores huiccuriae ounfert." (J. Lip-sius, Excurg. ad Tacit Ann.lib. xi.) This passage shows that Vienna hadalready supplied members to the Roman senate, andit must have been a Koinana Colonia. Martial (vii.68) calls it "pulcra" :— ■ Fertur habere mens, si vera est fuma, libellos,Inter delicias pulcra Vienna suas." So Pliny says that his works were in the booksellers'shops at Lugdunum. [Lwjdusum.] These factspresent a curious contrast between the book trade ina French provincial town under the Empire and atthe present day, when a man would not find much.Vienna was also noted for the wino (Martial, xiii.107) that grew in the neighbourhood; and someof the best wines of the Rhone are still made aboutt'imne. This town afterwards gave name to thesubdivision of Narbonensia named Vienncnsis. The modem town of Vienne is in the departmentof /sere, on the little river Gere, which Hows through('testae to the Rhone. The modem town U in thenarrow valley of the Gere, and extends to the banks»f the Rhine. The Roman town was placed on twoterraces in the form of amphitheatres. There stillBxUt the foundations of the massive Roman walls above19.000 feet in circuit which enclosed Vienna. Thenwalla, even in the weakest parts, were about 20 feetthick ; and it appears that there were round towersintervals. There are at Vienne the remains>f some arcades, which are supposed to have formedlie entrance to the Thermae. They are commonly'ailed triumphal arches, but there is no reason forhi.-* appellation. One of the arcades beam the nameif the emperor Gratian. There is a temple whichH. Schneider has conjectured to have been dedicateda Augustus and Livia, if his deciphering of thenacription may be trusted. This is one of the bestireftrrved Roman monuments of its kind in Franceiftor the liaison Carrie of Stmts [XemaI'RI's].t is now a Museum, and contains some valuablencient remains and inscriptions. This building isf the Corinthnin order, with six columns in front.nd wight on each side; the columns are above 3ft in diameter, and 35 feet high, including theaaw of the capitals. There is a singular monument near Vienna, some-times called Pontius Pilate's tomb, there being atradition that Pilate was banished to Vienna. Buteven if Pilate was sent to Vienna, that fact will notprove that this is his monument. It is a pyramidsupported on a quadrangular construction, on thesidesof which there are four arcades with semicirculararches at the top; and there are columns at each ofthe angles of the construction. Each side of thesquare of this basement is about 21 feet long, and theheight to the top of the entablature of the basementis nearly 22 feet. The pyramid with its smallerbase rests on the central part of the quadrangularconstruc tion ; it is about 30 feet high, and the wholeis consequently about 52 feet high. The edifice isnot finished. It has on the whole a very fine ap­pearance. There is a drawing of it in the PennyCyclojmedia (art. Vienne), made on the spot in1838 by W. B. Clarke, architect. The remains of the amphitheatre have been foundonly by excavation. It was a building of greatmagnitude, the long diameter being above 500 feetand the smaller above 400 feet, which dimensionsare about the same as those of the amphitheatre ofVerona. It has been used as a quarry to build themodem town out of. Three aqueducts suppliedVienna with water during the Roman period. Theseaqueducts run one above another on the side of thehill which borders the left bank of the Gere, andthey are nearly parallel to one another, but at dif­ferent elevations. The highest was intended tosupply the amphitheatre when a naumachia wasexhibited. There are also remains of a fourthaqueduct large enough for four persons to walk inupright and abreast. These aqueducts were almostentirely constructed under ground, with a fall ofabout one in a thousand, and for the most part linedinside with a red cement as high up as the springof the arches. The Roman road, sometimes called the Via Do-mitia, ran from Arelate (Aries') along the E. sideof the river to Lugdunum (Lyon). Where it enters1'i'enne, it is now more than 3 feet below the surfaceof the ground, and this depth increases as it goesfarther into the town. It is constructed of largoblocks of stone. Another road went from Viennato the Alpis Graia (Little St. Bernard) throughBkhginthum; and it is an interesting fact to findthat several villages on this road retain names givento them in respect of the distance from 1'ieime:thus Septeme is 7 miles, Oytier 8 miles, and DU-mox 10 Roman miles from I'l'enne. Another roadled from Vienne through Ci'I.ako (Grenoble) tothe Alpis Cottia (Mont St. Genevre). (See Richardet Hocquart, Guide du Voyageur, for references tomodem works on the antiquities of I'ienne, and par­ticularly M. Mermct's work, 8vo. Vienne, 1829,which contains the answers to a series of questionsproposed by the Academic des Inscriptions et BellesLettres; also the references iu Ukert, Gallien,p. 458.) [G.L.] V1GKSIMIJM, AD. 1. A station in GallUXarbonen&is, the distance of which from a givenpoint determined its name, as we see in the caw ofother names of plares derived from numerals. [Dro-decimi m. Ah; Vienna.] The place is xx. M. I\from Narbo (Xarbonne) on the road to Spain, andmay be at or near a place called Jjx Palme. S. There is another Ad Vipesiinum which occursin tile I tin. of Bordeaux to Jerusalem, on the road fromToulouse. These numerals show that such cities