OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 415 above the eify of Peace.(l) His son Motawakkel was a jealous and cruel tyrant:odious to his subjects, he cast himself on the fidelity of the strangers, and thesestrangers, ambitious and apprehensive, were tempted by the rich promise of a re­volution. At the instigation, or at least in the cause of his son, they burst into hisapartment at the hour of supper, and the caliph was cut into seven pieces by thesame swords which he had recently distributed among the guards of his life andthrone. To this throne, yet streaming with a father's blood, Montasser was tri­umphantly led; but in a reign of six months, he found only the pangs of a guiltyconscience. If he wept at the sight of an old tapestry which represented the crimeand punishment of the sons of Chosroes; if his days were abridged by grief andremorse, we may allow some pity to a parricide, who exclaimed in the bitternessof death, that he had lost both this world and the world to come. After this actof treason, the ensigns of royalty, the garment and walking-staff of Mahomet,were given and torn away by the foreign mercenaries, who in four years created,deposed, and murdered three commanders of the faithful. As often as the Turkswere inflamed by fear, or rage, or avarice, these caliphs were dragged by the feet,exposed naked to the scorching sun, beaten with iron clubs, and compelled to pur­chase, by the abdication of their dignity, a short reprieve of inevitable fate. (2)At length, however, the fury of the tempest was spent or diverted: the Abbassidesreturned to the less turbulent residence of Bagdad; the insolence of the Turkswas curbed with a firmer and more skilful hand, and their numbers were dividedand destroyed in foreign warfare. But the nations of the east had been taughtto trample on the successors of the prophet; and the blessings of domestic peacewere obtained by the relaxation of strength and discipline. So uniform are themischiefs of military despotism, that I seem to repeat the story of theprxtorians ofHome.?3) While the flame of enthusiasm was damped by the business, the pleasure, andthe knowledge, of the age, it burnt with concreted heat in the breasts of the cho­sen few, the congenial spirits, who were ambitious of reigning either in this worldor in the next. How carefully soever the book of prophecy had been sealed bythe apostle of Mecca, the wishes, and (if we may profane the word,) even thereason of fanaticism, might believe that, after the successive missions of Adam,Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and Mahomet, the same God, in the fulness oftime, would reveal a still more perfect and permanent law. In the two hundredand seventy-seventh year of the Hegira, and in the neighbourhood of Cufa, an.Arabian preacher, of the name of Carmath, assumed the lofty and incomprehen­sible style of the guide, the director, the demonstration, the word, the Holy Ghost,the camel, the herald of the Messiah, who had conversed with him in a humanshape, and the representative of Mahommed the son of Ali, of St. John the Bap­tist, and of the angel Gabriel. In his mystic volume, the precepts of the Koran■were refined to a more spiritual sense: he relaxed the duties of ablution, fasting,and pilgrimage; allowed the indiscriminate use of wine and forbidden fruit; andnourished the fervour of his disciples by the daily repetition of fifty prayers. Theidleness and ferment of the rustic crowd awakened the attention of the magistratesof Cufa; a timid persecution assisted the progress of the new sect, and the nameof the prophet became more revered after his person had been withdrawn fromthe world. His twelve apostles dispersed themselves among the Bedoweens, "arace of men," says Abulfeda, " equally devoid of reason and religion;" and the-success of their preaching seemed to threaten Arabia with a new revolution. TheCarmathians were ripe for rebellion, since they disclaimed the title of the houseof Abbas, and abhorred the worldy pomp of the caliphs of Bagdad. They weresusceptible of discipline, since they vowed a blind and absolute submission to theimam, who was called to the prophetic office by the voice of God and the people.Instead of the legal tithes, he claimed the fifth of their substance and spoil: the mostflagitious sins were no more than the type of disobedience; and the brethren weret (1) He changed the old names of Suroere, or Samara, into the fanciful title of Sem&lrral, that which gire»pleasure at first sight (D'Herbe)rit, Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 808, d'Anvillc, l'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 97,98.) (2) 'Tattea*speeimen,thedeatb of the caliph Motaz: Correptum pedibus petrahunt, et sudibtis probe per-taulcant,etspoliafum laceris vestibus in sole collocant, pne cujus, accerrimo a»tu pedes alternis attolebat etdemittebat. Adltantiurn aliquis misero colaphos continuo ingerabat, quos ille objectis manibus arertere stu- detmt Quo facto traditus tortori fuit totoque ti-iduo cibo potuqueprohibitus .... Suflbcatus, 8tc. ( Abulfeda, p. 206.) of the caliph Mohtadi, he says, cervices ipsi perpertris scubas contundebant, testrculasquupedibus ooiKutlcabant (p. 208.) (31 See under the feigns of lUotassepi, MotawaURel, MosMmEr. Moqpin, Slottx. Mflhfarli and MoMmedi indie Biblftmrqne of dllerbelSt, end die nowfanrUiav Annals of Eltnaon, A&ulphitagius, and AT>ulfe.d».