OCR Output 400 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. to all men: on which account we have reason to expect thelike return from others, and to inform them that they oughtnot to esteem difference of positive institutions a sufficient causeof alienation, but [join with us in] the pursuit of virtue andprobity, for this belongs to all men in common, and of itselfalone is sufficient for the preservation of human life. I nowreturn to the thread of my history. CHAP. VII. How upon Herod's going down into David's sepulchre, the sedi­tion in his family greatly increased. § 1. As for Herod he had spent vast sums about the cities,both without and within his own kingdom: and as he had beforeheard that Hyrcanus, who had been king before him, hadopened David's sepulchre, and taken out of it three thousandtalents of silver, and that there was a much greater numberleft behind, and indeed enough to suffice all his wants, he hada great while an intention to make the attempt; and at this timehe opened that sepulchre by night, and went into it, and endea­voured that it should not be at all known in the city, but tookonly his most faithful friends with him. As for any money, hefound none, as Hyrcanus had done, but that furniture of gold,and those precious goods that were laid up there; all which hetook away. However, he had a great desire to make a morediligent search, and to go farther in, even as far as the very bodiesof David and Solomon; where two of his guards were slain, bya flame that burst out upon those that went in, as the report was.So he was terribly affrighted, and went out and built a propi­tiatory monument of that fright he had been in, and this ofwhite stone at the mouth of the sepulchre, and that at great ex­pense also. And even * Nicolaus his historiographer makesmention of this monument built by Herod, though he does notmention his going dovn into the sepulchre, as knowing that ac­tion to be of ill repute; and many other things he treats of inthe same manner in his book; for he wrote in Herod's lifetime,and under his reign, and so as to please him, and as a servant to * It is here worth our observation, how careful Josephus was to the discoveryof truth in Herod's history, since he would not follow Njcolaus of Damascus him­self, so great a historian, where there was great reason to suspect that he flatteredHerod; which impartiality in history Josephus here solemnly professes, and ofwhich impartiality he has given more demonstrations than almost any historian whom­soever: But as to Herod's taking great wealth out of David's sepulchre, though Icannot prove it, yet do I strongly suspect it was this very history.