OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tors; and the imperial camp was usually pitched in the plain ofCtefiphon, on the eastern bank of the Tigris, at the distance of onlythree miles from Seleucia The innumerable attendants on luxuryand despotism resorted to the court, and the little village of Ctefi­phon insensibly swelled into a great city 40. Under the reign ofMarcus, the Roman generals penetrated as far as Ctefiphon and Se­leucia. They were received as friends by the Greek colony; they A. D. 165.attacked as enemies the feat of the Parthian kings ; yet both citiesexperienced the fame treatment. The sack and conflagration ofSeleucia, with the massacre of three hundred thousand of the inha­bitants, tarnished the glory of the Roman triumph Seleucia,already exhausted by the neighbourhood of a too powerful rival,sunk under the fatal blow; but Ctefiphon, in about thirty-three A.D. 198; .years, had sufficiently recovered its strength to maintain an obsti­nate siege against the emperor Severus. The city was, however,taken by assault; the king, who defended it in person, escaped withprecipitation; an hundred thousand captives, and a rich booty, re­warded the fatigues of the Roman soldiers 41. Notwithstanding thesemisfortunes, Ctefiphon succeeded to Babylon and to Seleucia, as oneof the great capitals of the East. In summer, the monarch of Persiaenjoyed at Ecbatana the cool breezes of the mountains of Media;but the mildness of the climate engaged him to prefer Ctefiphon forhis winter residence. From these successful inroads, the Romans derived no real or Conquest of Oirhoene by lasting benefit; nor did they attempt to preserve such distant con- the Romans,quests, separated from the provinces of the empire by a large tract ofintermediate desert. The reduction of the kingdom of Osrhoene,was an acquisition of less splendour indeed, but of a far more solidadvantage. That little state occupied the northern and most fertilepart of Mesopotamia, between the Euphrates and the Tigris. Edessa,its capital, was situated about twenty miles beyond the former ofthose rivers; and the inhabitants, since the time of Alexander, were1 E e 2 a mixed