OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 453 of art which had obtained the approval of the "few." Heacquiesced in or even favoured the report, that persons ofdistinction aided him in composing with their counsel or evenwith their co-operation.* In reality he carried his point;even in literature the oligarchy prevailed, and the artisticcomedy of the exclusives supplanted the comedy of thepeople: we find that about 620 the pieces of Plautus dis- 134.appeared from the set of stock plays. This is the more sig­nificant, because after the early death of Terence no man ofconspicuous talent at all further occupied this field. Kespect-ing the comedies of Turpilius (+651 at an advanced age) 103.and other stop-gaps wholly or almost wholly forgotten, aconnoisseur already at the close of this period gave it as hisopinion, that the new comedies were even much worse thanthe bad new pennies (P. 413). We have formerly shown (ii. 443) that a national Roman Nationalcomedy (togata) was added to the GraecO-Roman (palliatd) comedy. * In the prologue of the Heauiontimorumenos he puts the objection into themouth of his censors :— Sepenta ad studium hunc se applicasse nwsicumAmicum ingenio /return, haud natura sua. And in the later prologue (594) to the Adelphi he says— 160. Nam quod isti dicunt maletoli, homines nobilesEum adjutare, assidueque una scrioere;Quod illi maledictmn vehemens esse existimantEmn laudem hie duett maximum, quum ittis placetQui vobis unwersis et populo placent;Quorum opera in hello, in otio, in negotio,Suo quisque tempore itsus est sine superbia. As early as the time of Cicero it was the general supposition that La;lius andScipio iEmilianus were here meant: the scenes were designated which werealleged to proceed from them; stories were told of the journeys of the poorpoet with his noble patrons to their estates near Rome ; and it was reckoned un­pardonable that they had done nothing at all for the improvement of his financialcircumstances. But the power which creates legend is, as is well known, no­where more potent than in the history of literature. It is clear, and evenjudicious Roman critics acknowledged, that these lines could not possibly applyto Scipio who was then twenty-five years of age, and to his friend Laelius whowas not much older. Others with at least more judgment thought of the noblepoets Quintus Labeo (consul in 571) and Marcus Popillius (consul in 581), 183. 173.and of the learned patron of art and mathematician, Lucius Sulpicius Gallus(consul in 588); but this too is evidently mere conjecture. That Terence was 166.in close relations with the Scipionic house cannot, however, be doubted: it isa significant fact, that the first exhibition of the Adelphi and the second of theffecura took place at the funeral games of Lucius l'aullus, whicii were pro.vided by his sons Scipio and Fabius.