OCR Output C. VI.] VESPASIAN. 23 auxiliaries which were lightly armed and the archers to marchfirst, that they might prevent any sudden insults from theenemy, and might search out the woods that looked suspi­ciously, and were capable of ambuscades. Next to thesefollowed that part of the Romans which was completely armed,both footmen and horsemen. Next to these followed ten outof every hundred, carrying along with them their arms, andwhat was necessary to measure out a camp withal; and afterthem such as were to make the road even and straight, andif it were anywhere rough and hard to be passed over, toplane it, and to cut down the woods that hindered their march,that the army might not be in distress or tired with theirmarch. Behind these he set such carriages of the army asbelonged both to himself and to the other commanders, witha considerable number of their horsemen for their security.After these he marched himself, having with him a selectbody of footmen, and horsemen, and pikemen. After thesecame the peculiar cavalry of his own legion; for there were ahundred and twenty horsemen that peculiarly belonged toevery legion. Next to these came the mules that carried theengines for sieges, and the other warlike machines of thatnature. After these came the commanders of the cohortsand tribunes, having about them soldiers chosen out of therest. Then came the ensigns encompassing the eagle, whichis at the head of every Roman legion, the king and thestrongest of all birds, which seems to them a signal of domi­nion, and an omen that they shall conquer all against whomthey march : these sacred ensigns are followed by the trum­peters. Then came the main army in their squadrons andbattalions, with six men in depth, which were followed at lastby a centurion, who, according to custom, observed the rest.As for the servants of every legion, they all followed thefootmen, and led the baggage of the soldiers, which was borneby the mules and other beasts of burden. But behind allthe legions came the whole multitude of the mercenaries ; andthose that brought up the rear came last of all for the securityof the whole army, being both footmen, and those in theirarmor also, with a great number of horsemen.