OCR Output 246 A BRA VB ROMAN. [D. VI. it was not possible that he, who was but a mortal man, shouldescape ; for as he had shoes' all full of thick and sharp nails,as had every one of the other soldiers, so when he ran on thepavement of the temple, he slipped, and fell down upon his backwith a very great noise, which was made by his armor. Thismade those that were running away to turn back ; whereuponthose Romans that were in the tower of Antonia set up agreat shout, as they were in fear for the man. But the Jewsgot about him in crowds, and struck at him with their spearsand with their swords on all sides. Now he received a greatmany of the strokes of these iron weapons upon his shield,and often attempted to get up again, but was thrown downby those that struck at him j yet did he, as he lay along,stab many of them with his sword. Nor was he soon killed,as being covered with his helmet and his breast-plate in thoseparts of his body where he might be mortally wounded: healso pulled his neck close to his body till all his other limbswere shattered, and nobody durst come to defend him, andthen he yielded to his fate. Now Caesar was deeply affectedon account of this man of so great fortitude, and especiallyas he was killed in the sight of so many people ; he was de­sirous himself to come to his assistance, but the place wouldnot give him leave, while such as could have done it were toomuch terrified to attempt it. Thus, when Julian had strug­gled with death a great while, and had let but few of thosethat had given him his mortal wound go off unhurt, he hadat last his throat cut, though not without some difficulty, andleft behind him a very great fame, not only among the Ro­mans and with Caesar himself, but among his enemies also ;then did the Jews catch up his dead body, and put the Ro­mans to flight again, and shut them up in the tower of An­tonia. Now those that most signalized themselves, and foughtmost zealously in this battle of the Jewish side, were oneAlexis and Gyphtheus of John's party, and of Simon's party 1 No wonder that this Julian, who had so many nails in his shoes, slippedupon the pavement of the temple, which was smooth, and laid with marbleof different colors.