OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 35 nesses of honourable rank, perhaps of infamous reputa­tion, attested the treasonable designs of the Roman pa­trician.0 Yet his innocence must be presumed, since hewas deprived by Theodoric of the means of justification,and rigorously confined in the tower of Pavia, while thesenate, at the distance of five hundred miles, pronounceda sentence of confiscation and death against the most il­lustrious of its members. At the command of the bar­barians, the occult science of a philosopher was stigma­tized with the names of sacrilege and magic.d A devoutand dutiful attachment to the senate was condemned ascriminal by the trembling voices of the senators them­selves; and their ingratitude deserved the wish or predic­tion of Boethius, that, after him, none should be foundguilty of the same offence/ While Boethius, oppressed with fetters, expected each His imPri- , , soument moment the sentence or the stroke of death, he com- »nd death,posed in the tower of Pavia the Consolation of Philosophy; A' '324'a golden volume, not unworthy of the leisure of Platoor Tully, but which claims incomparable merit from thebarbarism of the times, and the situation of the author.The celestial guide, whom he had so long invoked atRome and Athens, now condescended to illumine hisdungeon, to revive his courage, and to pour into hiswounds her salutary balm. She taught him to comparehis long prosperity and his recent distress, and to con­ceive new hopes from the inconstancy of fortune. Rea­son had informed him of the precarious condition of hergifts; experience had satisfied him of their real value; 0 The characters of his two delators, Basilius, (Var. 2. 10, 1 1. 4. 22.) and Opilio,(5. 41. 8. 16.) are illustrated, not much to their honour, in the Epistles of Cassio-dorins, which likewise mention Decoratus, (5. 31.) the worthless colleague of Boe­thius. (lib. 3. pros. 4. p. 193.) d A severe inquiry was instituted into the crime of magic : (Var. 4. 22, 23. 9. 18.)and it wad believed that many necromancers had escaped by making their jailorsmad ; for mad, I should read drunk. e Boethius had composed his own Apology, (p. 53.) perhaps more interesting thanhis Consolation. We must be content with the general view of his honours, prinei*.pies, persecution, &c. (lib. 1. pros. 4. p. 42—62.) which may be compared with theshort and weighty words of the Valesian Fragment, (p. 723.) An anonymous writer(Sinner, Catalog. MSS. Bibliot. Bern. tom. i. p. 287.) charges him home with ho­nourable and patriotic treason.