OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 331 consequence of the faithlessness and perfidy which prevailedthe new burgesses had every reason, if not to suspect hispersonal designs, to doubt at any rate whether he wouldbe able to induce the majority of the senate to keep their"word after the victory. In the spring of 671 Sulla landed with his legions in the Sulla [83.port of Brundisium. The senate, on receiving the news, de-lands inclared the commonwealth in danger, and committed to the Italy'consuls unlimited powers; but these incapable leaders hadnot been on their guard, and were surprised by a landingwhich had nevertheless been foreseen for years. The armywas still at Ariminum, the ports were not garrisoned, and—what is almost incredible—there was not a man under armsat all along the whole south-eastern coast. The consequenceswere soon apparent. Brundisium itself, a considerable and is rein-community of new burgesses, at once opened its gates forcl;ci °ywithout resistance to the oligarchic general, and all Messapia P"ljtlfansand Apulia followed its example. The army marched ers. eserthrough these regions as through a friendly country, andmindful of its oath uniformly maintained the strictest dis­cipline. Prom all sides the scattered remnant of the Opti-mate party flocked to the camp of Sulla. Quintus Metelluscame from the mountain ravines of Liguria, whither he hadmade his escape from Africa, and resumed, as colleague ofSulla, the proconsular command committed to him in 667 87.(P. 271), and withdrawn from him by the revolution. MarcusCrassus in like manner appeared from Africa with a smallband of armed men. Most of the Optimates, indeed, cameas noble emigrants with great pretensions and small desirefor fighting, so that they had to listen to bitter languagefrom Sulla himself regarding noble lords who wished tohave themselves preserved for the good of the state and couldnot be brought even so far as to arm their slaves. It wasof more importance, that deserters already made theirappearance from the democratic camp—for instance, therefined and respected Lucius Philippus, who was, alongwith one or two notoriously incapable persons, the onlyconsular that had come to terms with the revolutionarygovernment and accepted offices under it. He met withthe most gracious reception from Sulla, and obtained thehonourable and easy charge of occupying for him the pro­vince of Sardinia. Quintus Lucretius Ofella and other ser­viceable officers were likewise received and at once employed;