OCR Output PANOPOLIS. 544 PANOKMUS. rrtt ,aa**m), hut as much as 27 stadiatin Msrfia (Dtulu). Panopens was a very an-«u tm. onjpflally inhabited by the Phlegyae.iutta. lit king of Panopeua, and his brother,m lit laden of the Phocians in the Trojan War.(hts. x. 4. $ 1.) Panopeua was also celebratedk< lit pm of Turns, who was slain by Apollo attta pita, btcaott be attempted to oner violence toLa m ker wiy to Delphi. (Horn. Od. z. 576;I'm l 4. J 5.) Panopeua was destroyed byUnn (Hena, riii. 34), and again by Philip atk am « U>t Sacred War. (Pans. z. 3. § 1.) It■■ uhi b; Ux Romans in B. c. 198, on the firsttot ((jr. riiii. 18; Polyb. v. 96); and wasam for lot third true in the campaign■m Sills and Archelaai, the general of Mith-■na (PIsLSsil 16.) Paasanias says that the■tat air mu 7 stadia in circuit; but in hishi il» pact consisted of only a few huts, sitn-k lit of a torrent. There are still con-mni.lt muins of the ancient walls upon the«»' 1-i'hu above A to Vlati. The masonry isTcAtki periods, as one might have ezpected ■ ts* t«efuU destruction of the city. There are• ••fi-i temaini of the tomb of Tityus, which,■rotf f Paasanias. was the third of a stadium (rrvffiftmue, and stood on the side of the■at Panamas also mentions on the side of thewk Vir i budding of unbaked bricks, containingPan* 4 PeauWur marble, which was supposed to'«> »!« fltber fur Asclepius or Prometheus. Ita V. n-,1 by some that Prometheus made theran oct of the sandy-coloured rocks in theess -■:«><!. and that they still smelt like human*■ (Mad, CUuneal Tour, vol. i. p. 207;•» Vortiem Grace, vol. ii. p. 109; L'lrichs,ha fr. p. 151.) rfAVilVLlS (neioToAu. Diodor. i. 18; Ptol.|M 71; tlmrwr »dA«, Strab. zvii. p. 813;R **Ait, Steph. B. a. r.; sometimes simply■i Hand. p. 731; It. Anton, p. 166: Eth.r**nw), the Greek equivalent of the Acgyp-M^iaiittCbemmU or Chemmo (Herod, ii. 91,l"|. Diodor. I c), was m very ancient city offriaja, bt. 16° 4ff N. [Cbemmis.] Pano-P tu Mud to Chem or Pan, one of the first ■ «f tkt Aegyptian divinities, or, according to aiBaar, ta Uk Panes and Satyri generally of► AtjTpt (plut. /,. et Omr. c. 14.) Ste­al i triaatinm describes the Chem or Pan of•*? •» ta Ithyphallic god, the same whoseNbsub oenrs so frequently among the sculp-UTtries. His face was human, like that of : ta head-dress, like that of Amnion, con-'straight feathers, and over the fingersfcnrfc faaad, «bich is lifted up, is susjicnded aP. tat Mt, like that of Amnion also, in-■I ksi arm, i* swathed in bandages. An1 <■ ine Kusaeir road is the ground for">*i Cbezn and Pan were the same deity;Gleans and Panopolis were respectively^P**> sad Greek names for the wane cityfrom Diodurus (L c.) Panopolis stoodof the Nile, and was the capital ofAccording to Strabo (L c.)principally by stonemasons and■}] tad Agatfuas (hr. p. 133) says thatLaplace of the poet Nonnus a. d. 410.feoami site of Panic worship, Panopolis(ar its temple of Perseus. From He-t'L -I) «t know that the Dorian chieftains deduced their origin from Perseus through Aegypt.It is difficult to say which of the native Aegypti.mgods was represented by Perseus. From the root otthe word—hfp&oi, to burn—it is probable, however,that he is the same with the fire-god Hephai&tos orPhtali. The Panopolite temple of Perseus was rec­tangular, and surrounded by a wall around whichwas a plantation of palm-trees. At the entrance ofthe enclosure were two lofty gateways of stone, andupon these were placed colossal statues in humanform. Within the adytum was a statue of Perseus,and there also was laid up his sandal, two cubits long.The priests of Panopolis asserted that Perseus oecft-sionalty visited his temple, and that his epiphanieswere always the omens of an abundant harvest toAegypt. The sandals of Perseus are described byHesiod {Scut. Here. 220), and their deposition inthe shrine implied that, having left his abode for aseason, he was traversing the land to bless it withespecial fertility. The modem name of Panopolis isAUimitn, an evident corruption of Chemmis. Theruins, in respect of its ancient splendour, are incon­siderable. It is probable, indeed, that Panopolis,like Abydos and other of the older cities of UpperAegypt, declined in prosperity as Thebes rose tometropolitan importance. (Champollion, VEgypte,vol. i. p. 267; Pococke, Travels, p. 115; Minntoli,p. 243.) [W. B. D.] PANORMUS (ridVopuo*: Eth. navopfilrrjs,Panonnitanus: Palermo), one of the most importantcities of Sicily, situated on the N. coast of the island,about 50 miles from its NW. extremity, on an ex­tensive bay, which is now known as the Gulf of Pa­lermo. The name is evidently Greek, and derivedfrom the excellence of its port, or, more strictlyspeaking, of the anchorage in its spacious bay.(Diod. xxii. 10.) But Panormus was not a Greekcolony; it was undoubtedly of Phoenician origin,and appears to have been one of the earliest settle­ments of that people in Sicily. Hence, when the in­creasing power of the Greek colonies in the islandcompelled the Phoenicians to concentrate themselvesin its more westerly portion, Panormus, together withMotya and Solus, became one of the chief seatsof their power. (Thuc vi. 2.) We find no mentionof the Phoenician name of Panormus, though it mayfairly be presumed that this Greek appellation wasnot that used by the colonists themselves. It wouldbe natural enough to suppose that the Greek namewas only a translation of the Phoenician one ; butthe Punic form of the name, which is found on coin*,is read " Machanath," which signifies w a camp," likethe Roman Castra, and has no reference to the port.(Gesenius, Monum. Pkoen. p. 288; Mover's Pho-nizier, vol. iii. p. 335.) We have no account of the early history of any ofthese Phoenician colonies in Sicily, or of the processby which they were detached from the dependenceof the mother country and became dependencies ofCarthage; though it is probable that the changetook place when Phoenicia itself became subject tothe Persian monarchy. But it is certain that Car­thage already held this kind of supremacy over theSicilian colonies when we first meet with the nar^oof PaDonnua in history. This is not till b. c. 460,when the great Carthaginian armament under Ha-milcar landed there and made it their head-quartersbefore advancing against Himcra. (Diod. xi. 20.)From this time it bore an imj^irtant part in thfc warsof the Carthaginians in Sicily, and seems to havegradually become the acknowledged capital of their