OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 319 the sound of the Roman trumpet; they saw the enemy chap.in their camp. Astonishment produced disorder; xx'disorder was followed by flight and dismay; and theconfused multitude of the bravest warriors was piercedby the swords and javelins of the legionaries andauxiliaries. The fugitives escaped to the third andmost considerable camp, in the Catalaunian plains,near Chalons in Champagne: the straggling detach­ments were hastily recalled to their standard; andthe Barbarian chiefs, alarmed and admonished bythe fate of their companions, prepared to encounter,in a decisive battle, the victorious forces of the lieu­tenant of Valentinian. The bloody and obstinate con­flict lasted a whole summer's day, with equal valour,and with alternate success. The Romans at lengthprevailed, with the loss of about twelve hundred men. .Six thousand of the Alemanni were slain, four thou­sand were wounded; and the brave Jovinus, afterchasing the flying remnant of their host as far as thebanks of the Rhine, returned to Paris, to receive theapplause of his sovereign, and the ensigns of theconsulship for the ensuing year*. The triumph of July.the Romans was indeed sullied by their treatment ofthe captive king, whom they hung on a gibbet with­out the knowledge of their indignant general. Thisdisgraceful act of cruelty, which might be imputedto the fury of the troops, was followed by the de­liberate murder of Withicab, the son of Vadomair;a German prince, of a weak and sickly constitution,but of a daring and formidable spirit. The domesticassassin was instigated and protected by the Romans;and the violation of the laws of humanity and justicebetrayed their secret apprehension of the weaknessof the declining empire. The use of the dagger isseldom adopted in public councils, as long as theyretain any confidence in the power of the sword. * The battles are described by Ammianus (xxvii. 2.), and by Zosimus (1. iv.p. 209.); who supposes Valentinian to have been present.