OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 271 if the wisdom of Belisarius had not been defeated by themisconduct of his officers. He had previously sent or­ders to Bessas to second his operations by a timely sallyfrom the town; and he had fixed his lieutenant, Isaac,by a peremptory command, to the station of the port.But avarice rendered Bessas immoveable; while theyouthful ardour of Isaac delivered him into the hands ofa superior enemy. The exaggerated rumour of his de­feat was hastily carried to the ears of Belisarius: hepaused; betrayed in that single moment of his life someemotions of surprise and perplexity; and reluctantlysounded a retreat to save his wife Antonina, his trea­sures, and the only harbour which he possessed on theTuscan coast. The vexation of his mind produced anardent and almost mortal fever; and Rome was left with­out protection to the mercy or indignation of Totila.The continuance of hostilities had embittered the na­tional hatred, the Arian clergy was ignominkmsly drivenfrom Rome; Pelagius, the archdeacon, returned with­out success from an embassy to the Gothic camp; anda Sicilian bishop, the envoy or nuncio of the pope, wasdeprived of both his hands, for daring to utter falsehoodsin the service of the church and state. Famine had relaxed the strength and discipline of the Ra™ takeo by garrison at Rome. They could derive no effectual ser- the Goths,vice from a dying people; and the inhuman avarice of Dee. iff6'the merchant at length absorbed the vigilance of the go­vernor. Four Isaurian sentinels, while their companionsslept, and their officers were absent, descended by a ropefrom the wall, and secretly proposed to the Gothic kingto introduce his troops into the city. The offer was en­tertained with coldness and suspicion; they returned insafety; they twice repeated their visit; the place wastwice examined; the conspiracy was known and disre­garded; and no sooner- had Totila consented to theattempt, than they unbarred the Asinarian gate, andgave admittance to the Goths. Till the dawn of day they