OCR Output 204 L0ND0BRIS. LONGULA. least wren pates. By the sides of the chief roadsstood the cemeteries, from which enormous quantitiesof sepulchral remains have been, and still are, pro­cured. Among the inscriptions, are records of sol­diers of the second, the sixth, and the twentiethlegions. (CoL Ant. vol i.) We have no evidence,however, to show that the legions themselves wereever quartered at Londininm. The only troopswhich may be considered to have been stationed inthis city were a cohort of the native Britons {Oil.Ant. vol. i.); but it is not known at what particularperiod they were here. It is, however, a ratherremarkable fact, as it was somewhat contrary to thepolicy of the Romans to station the auxiliaries intheir native countries. Traces of temples and portions of statues havealso been found in London. The most remarkubleof the latter is, perhaps, the bronze head of Hadrianfound in the Thames, and the large bronze hand foundin Thames Street. In reference to the statues inbronze which adorned Londinium and other cities ofRoman Britain, the reader may be directed to acurious passage in Geoffrey of Monmouth. Thatwriter relates (xii. 13), tliut, after the death of Cad-walla, the Britons embalmed his body and placed itin a bronze statue, which was set upon a bronzehorse of wonderful beauty, and placed over thewestern gate of London, as a trophy of victory andas a terror to the Saxons. All that we are calledupon to consider in this statement is, whether it isat all likely that the writer would have invented thedetails about the works in bronze ; and whether it isnot very probable that the story was made up toaccount fur some Roman works of art, which, for cen­turies after the Romans ha 1 left Britain, remained awonder and a puzzle to their successors. Equestrianstatues in bronze were erected in Britain by theRomans, as is proved by a fragment found at Lin­coln ; but in the subsequent and middle ages suchworks of art were not fabricated. We have above referred to the " Pracpositus The-aaurorum Augustensiuin." Numerous coins areextant of the mint of Londinium. Those whichmay be certainly thus attributed are of Carnusius,Allecttu, Conatantinus, and the Constantino family.(Akerman s Coins of tltt Iloiuatis rtlating to Bri­tain.) With respect to the precise position of thepublic buildings, and, indeed, of the general distri­bution of the Roman city, but little is known; it is,however, very certain, that, with some few exceptions,the course of the modern streets is no guide to thatof the ancient. This has also been remarked to bethe case at Treren and other ancient cities. [C.R.S.I LO'NDOBRIS (AoKoogplj, Ptol. ii. 5. § 10; Ao-foi/irzut, Marc. Heracl. p. 43: Fitrlingwit), a smallisland, and the only one, belonging to the province ofLusitania, lay off the promontory I.inaiuim (C.Cortwetro.) [P. S.] LONG AN US (Aoyya*6s), a river in the N. ofSicily, not far from Mylae (Miluzzv), celebratedfor the victory of Hieron, king of Syracuse, over theMaraertinea in B. c. 270 (Pol. i. 9 ; Diud. xxii. 13;Exc. H. p. 499, where the name is written Aoi-Twor, but the same rirer is undoubtedly meant).Polybius describe* it as "in the plain of Mylae"(Ik t^ MvAaup irfSiff), but it is impossible to say,with cerlaiuty, which of the small rivers that flowinto the sea near that town is the one meant. TheFium* di Santa Lucia, about three miles south­west of Milazzo, has perhnpe the beat claim; thoughC'laveriua fixea on the Fiume ill Cattro limit, a little more distant from that citv. (Cluv. Srip. 303.) [E. H. a] LONGATICUM, a town in the S. of PuuunatSuperior, on the road from Aquileia to Emonv NowJ^ogatecz, according to Muchar. {It. Anton.: It.llieros.; Tab. Pent.; Muchar, Xoricum, p. 232.) LOXGOBARDI. [ Lanoouaroi. J LONGONES. [Sakuima.] LONGOVICUS, a town in Britain, mentioned isthe Xolitia, and nowhere else. It was, pruhaMr. inthe neighbourhood of the Cumberland and West­moreland lakes; but beyond this it is not safe to gofurther in the way of identification; though the M',-numenta Brilimnica makes it lAuieatter. [R. G. L.] LO'NGULA (\oyyo\a : Eth. Longulanus : BmanMposo), an ancient city of Ijitium, which sennato have been included in the territory of the Vi4-siians. It first appears as a Volacian city, winchwas taken by assault by the Roman consul, Poatu-mus Cominius in u. c. 493. (Liv. ii. 33: Dionya.vi. 91.) But it was recovered by the Vobciansunder the command of Coriolanus, in B.C AS6 (Liv.ii. 39; Uionys. viii. 36): in both cases it is describedas falling an easy prey to the invading army, andwas probably not a place of any great importance;indeed Livy's expressions would lead us to infer tits!it was u dependency of Aiitium. Afier this ii is onlyincidentally mentioned; once, as the place where toeRoman army under L. Aeuiilius encamped in the waragainst the Volacians, B.C. 482(l>ionys.viii.85): andagain, at a much later period in the Santnite Wan,B. c. 309. (Liv. ix. 39.) Its name is after thisfound only in Pliny's list of the cities of Latiurowhich were in his time utterly decayed and deserted.(Plin. hi. 5. s. 9.) As he enumerates it am<»e thecities that shared in the sacrifices on the AltonMount, it would seem to have been originally a Lavltacity, though it had fallen into the hands of the Vol-scians before its name ap[>ears in hi- tory. All the above passages would lead us to placeLongula in the neighbourhood of Antiiun, while thetwo former connect it closely with Pollusca andCorioli. These are all the data which we have fordetermining its position, which must therefore be insome degree matter of conjecture, especially as thatof Pollusca and Corioli is equally uncertain. BatNibby has pointed out a locality which has at ailevents a plausible claim to be that of Longula, iathe eaxalr, or farm-house, now called Boon Jiipoao.on the right of the road from Koine to Antrum,about 27 miles from limne, and 10 in a straight linefrom Porto dAnto* The farm,or ttnula, of AwoaJiijioto lies between that of Carroetto on the cueside, and Ardca on the other; while the site occu­pied by the catale itself, and which was that <af acastle in the middle ages, is described as one oi tins*which is so clearly marked by natural advantages c4"[losition that it could scarcely fail to have brvnchosen as the site of an ancient city. No ruins re­main; but perlmiw these could hardly be expectedin the case of a town that ceased to exist at so earlya period. (Nibby, roL i. p. 326; Abrken, JiUtri-ltalien, p. I'l.) [E.H.B.] * The position assigned to Buon Ripoeo on Cell's msp does not accord with this description of the »n»given by Nibby; but this part of the map is Terrimperfect, and evidently not derived from pervoulobservation. Gell's own account of the situatko ofHum Kipoio (p. 185), though less precise, agreeswith that of Nibby.