OCR Output 110 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX. montory to another, of the length of thirty furlongs, as measu­red over the sea. And this was done, because he esteemed it tobe a most tedious thing to row over it in a small ship, and thoughtwithal, that it became him to make that bridge, since he waslord of the sea, and might oblige it to give marks of obedience aswell as the earth ; so he inclosed the whole bay within his bridge,and drove his chariot over it, and thought that, as he was a god,it was fit for him to travel over such roads as this was. Nor didhe abstain from the plunder of any of the Grecian temples, andgave order that all the engravings and sculptures, and the rest ofthe ornaments of the statues and donations therein dedicated,should be brought to him, saying, that " the best things ought" to be set no where but in the best place, and that the city of'' Rome was that best place." He also adorned his own houseand his gardens with the curiosities brought from those temples,together with the houses he lay at when he travelled all overItaly; whence he did not scruple to give a command, that thestatue of Jupiter Olympius, so called because he was honouredat the Olympian games by the Greeks, which was the work ofPhidias the Athenian, should be brought to Rome. Yet did nothe compass his end, because the architects told Memmius Regu-lus, who was commanded to remove that statue of Jupiter, that theworkmanship was such as would be spoiled, and would not bearthe removal. It was also reported that Memmius, both on thataccount, and on account of some such mighty prodigies as are ofan incredible nature, put off the taking it down, and wrote toCaius those accounts, as his apology for not having done whathis epistle required of him ; and that when he was thence in dan­ger of perishing, he was saved by Caius, being dead himself,before he had put him to death. 2. Nay, Caius's madness came to this height, that when hehad a daughter born, he carried her into the capitol, and put herupon the knees of the statue, and said, that the child was com­mon to him and to Jupiter, and determined that she had two fa­thers, but which of these fathers were the greatest, he left un­determined ; and yet mankind bore him in such his pranks. Healso gave leave to slaves to accuse their' masters of any crimeswhatsoever they pleased ; for all such accusations were terrible,because they were in great part made to please him, and at hissuggestion, insomuch that Pallux, Claudius's slave, had the bold.ness to lay an accusation against Claudius himself, and Caius wasnot ashamed to be present at his trial of life and death, to hearthat trial of his own uncle, in hopes of being able to take himoff, although he did not succeed to his mind. But when he hadfilled the whole habitable world, which he governed, with false , , accusations