OCR Output MARSTABAE. MARSYAS. 285 towns. Now as Strabo describes the latter part ofthe retreat through a desert track containing only afew veils, it is obvious that the coast-road was thatfollowed by the Kuinans aa far as Yembo, alreadyidentified with Nera Come; "the road-distancebetween Sabbia and Yembo (about 800 Englishmiles) allowing, for the entire retreat, the reason­able average of little more than thirteen miles a-day."(Fnrrter, Geogr. of Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 277—332.)III. Amid these various and conflicting theoriesthere ia not perhaps one single point that canbe regarded as positively established, beyond allqneatiun: but there are a few which may besafely regarded as untenable. 1. And first, withregard to Leuce Come, plausible as its identificationwi;h EUUaura is rendered by the coincidence ofDame, there seem to be two inseparable objections toil: first, that the author of the Periplus places theharbour and castle of Leuce two or three days' sailfrom Myos llormus (for Mr. Forster's gloss is quiteinadmissible), while EUUaura is considerably moretisn double that distance, under the most favourablecircumstances; and secondly, that the same author,in perfect agreement with Strabo, places it in thecountry of the Nabatbaei, which never could haveextended so far south as Haura. Mr. Forster at­tempts to obviate this objection by supposing thatt>4h Leuce Come and Nera were sea-ports of theNabalhaei beyond their own proper limits, and inthe hostile territory of the Tbamuditea (/. c. p. 284,note *). But this hypothesis is clearly inconsistentwith the author of the Periplus, who implies, and*ith Strabo, who asserts, that Leuce Come lay inthe territory of the Kabathaei (^«* «J Aev/cVtinijv ttjs HaSaralwv fris, tfurofmor ptya), a state­ment which is further confirmed by the fact thatXrra Come, which all agree to have been south ofLeuce. is also placed by Strabo in the territory of Obo-das, the king of the Nabatbaei {tori 8« rijs 'OSdoa).Leuce cannot therefore be placed further south thanilmlah, as Gosselin, Vincent, and Jomard all agree;til Nera must be sought a little to the south of this,far Jomard has justly remarked that Strabo, in con­trasting the time occupied in the advance and inthe retreat, evidently draws his comparison from acalculation of the same space (/. e. p. 385). 2.With regard to the site of Marsyabae, it may be re-narked that its identification with Mariaba, thejnetr.rpnlis of the Sabaei, the modem M&reb, main­tained by D'Anville, Fresncl, and Jomard, is inad­missible' for ttie following reasons: first, that dis­tinct mention having been made of the latter byStrabo, it is not to be supposed that he would im-awdiatelv mention it with a modification of its name,and assign it to another tribe, the Khamanitne: andit U an uncritical method of removing the difficultysuggested by M. Jomard without the authority ofMSS\,—"* il faut lire partout Mariaba; le mot Mar~nabn est corrompu e"videmment." Secondly, whetherta» Marisi-a Baramalacum of Pliny be identified withStrain's Marsyabae or no, and whatever becomes oftV piattsible etymology of this epithet, suggestedWt [<ean Vincent (quasi Bahr em-Mulac=the royalrrtrrrow). the fact remains the same, that theMariaba of the Sabaeans was abundantly supplied»oh water from numerous rivulet* collected in itsrnttwned Tank; and that therefore, as Gosselinremarks, drought was the last calamity to whichthe Romans would have been exposed in such aIdeality. 3. With regard to Anagrana and Negra,«■ the identity of which with the modern Nedjran there is a singular agreement among all commenta­tors, there seems to bo an insuperable objection tothat also, if Strabo, who it must be rememberedhad his information direct from Gallus himself, is atrustworthy guide; for the Anagrana of the re­treat (which is obviously also the Negra of Pliny),nine days distant from Marsyabae, was the placewhere the battle had been fought on their advance.But he had said before that this battle was foughtat the river; and there is no mention of a rivernearer to Nedjran than the Sancan, which is. ac­cording to Mr. Forster, 170 miles, or twelve days'journey, distant. It is certainly strange that, of thowriters who have commented on this expedition, all,with one exception, have overlooked the only indi­cation furnished by the classical geographers of thedirection of the line of march,—clearly pointing tothe west, and not to the south. The Mariaba takenby the Romans was, according to Pliny, that of thoCalingii, whom he places in the vicinity of the I'er-tian Gulf; for he names two other towns of the sametribe, Pallon and Urannimal or Muranima), whichhe places near the river by which the Euphrates isthought to debouche into the Persian Gulf (vi. 28),opposite to the Bahrein islands. (Forster, vol. ii.p. 312.) This important fact is remarkably con­firmed by the expedition having landed near themouth of the Elani tic gulf of the Red Sea, and com­mencing their march through the territory of Obodasand his kinsman Aretas, two powerful sheikhs of thoNabathaei, who inhabited the northern part of thoArabian peninsula from the Euphrates to the pe-ninsula of Mount Sinai [Nabathaei], and therecan be little doubt that the Mariaba of Pliny is cor­rectly identified with the Merab, still existing at theeastern base of the Nedjd mountains. [Mariaba,No. 3.] Whether this be the Marsyabae of Strabo,or whether future investigations in the eastern partof the peninsula, hitherto so imperfectly known, maynot restore to us both this and other towns men­tioned in the lists of Strabo and Pliny, it is impos­sible to determine. At any rate, the very circuitousroute through Nedjd to Yemen, marked out by Mr.Forster, and again his line of the retreat, seem to in­volve difficulties and contradictions insurmountable,which this is not the place to discuss; and with regardto the supposed analogy of the modern names, it maybe safely assumed that an equal amount of ingenuitymight discover like analogies in any other parts ofArabia, even with the very scanty materials that weat present have at command. In conclusion, it maybe remarked that the observation of Strabo that theexpedition had reached within two days' journey ofthe country of the Frankincense, is of no value what­ever in determining the line of inarch, as there weretwo districts so designated, and there is abundantreason to doubt whether either in fact existed; andthat the reports brought home by Gallus and pre­served by Pliny, so far as they prove anything,clearly indicate profound ignorance of the natureand produce of Yemen, which some authors supjiosehim to have traversed, for we are in a position toassert that so much of his statement concerning theSabaei as relates to their wealth—" silvanun fcrtili-tate odorifera, auri metallis "—is pure fiction. Thequestion of the confusion of the various Mariabas. andtheir cognate names, is discussed by Ritter with hisusual abilitv. (Erdhmde von Arabian, vol. i.pp. 276—284.) [G. \\\] MA'RSYAS (Mapo-uar). 1. A tributary of thoMaeander, having its sources in the district called