OCR Output 248 NOTES. 12. Malignltati = obtrectatio et Uvor above. 15. A Domitiano. Ann. 11, 11. Cf. Life of Tacitus, pp. 5-6. 16. Abnuerim. For the mode and tense, cf. Gr. 260, R 4Z. 527.—Nec .... odio = neque amore quisquam neque odio. En­silage. Cf. Germania and Agricola passim. IT. Q,uod si. And if. From the tendency to connect sen­tences by relatives arose the use of quod beforo certain conjunctions,particularly si, merely as a copulative. Cf. Z. 807; also Freund'sLexicon, sub voce.—Principatum, properly civil government, andhence appropriate to the peaceful reign of Nerva.—Imperium, properlymilitary command, and hence equally appropriate to the more warlikeTrajan. Cf. Dod. in loc. 18. DIvi Nervae. This implies that Nerva was already dead,before this paragraph was written and before the history was pub­lished. How much labor may have beeu bestowed on the work previousto the composition of the introduction, we cannot tell. Cf. note, A. 3,memoriam, etc.; also Preliminary Remarks, p. 233. 19. Uberiorem. The reign of Trajan was fruitful in greatevents, in civil and military life, as well as in literature. Cf. Life ofT., pp. 6-7.—Securiorem. Wr. renders, more pleasing, lit . more freefrom care (se-cura), anxiety, pain. But it may be rendered here, as-usual, more safe, more secure, not indeed from personal danger, forthe historian had nothing to fear for his person in treating either sub­ject, but from the danger of giving offence to bad men or their de­scendants, of whom there were not so many to be spokeu of in theLife of Trajan, as in that for instanco of Domitian. Or. and Dod. referto the periculosae plenum opus aleae of Horace (Od. 2, 1, 6), as aparallel passage.—Rara felicitate is not abl. abs. but abl. of cause oraccompanying circumstance = enjoying as I do that felicity of thetimes which is so seldom enjoyed, when> etc. Observe that ubi,properly an adverb of place, is here and often used as an adverb of time Ch. II.—This chapter and the next present an outline of the lead­ing events and prominent features of the history. The language isconcise as a table of contents, yet it abounds in the disjecta membrapoetao. 22. Opus. Lit. a work. But the epithets opimum, etc., applyonly to the period to which the work relates. Render: / propose towrite the history of a period, etc. 23. Ipsa pace instead of in ipsa pace^ior the sake of conciseness.Cf. Essay on Style of Tacitus, p. 12.—Saevum. Or. and DBd. readsaevom, after the Medicean MS. The MSS. of Tacitus exhibit not afew examples of the old orthography of the Latin language. Butthey do not preserve consistency. Boetticher thinks that Tacitusresorted to different modes of writing words for the sake of variety.Cf. Prolegomena to his Lexicon Taciteum.