OCR Output 890 THE StILLAN CONSTITUTION. [Cook IV. speedily as he had formerly arranged those of the capital.His last activity on his sick hed had reference to the collec­tion of a contribution for the rebuilding of the Capitolinetemple, of which he was not allowed to witness the comple-Deaih of tion- Little more than a year after his retirement, in theBulla. sixtieth year of his life, while yet vigorous in body and mind, he was overtaken by death; after a brief confinement to a sick­bed—he was writing at his autobiography two days evenbefore his death—the rupture of a blood-vessel* carried him78 off (676). His faithful fortune did not desert him even indeath. He could have no wish to be drawn once more into thedisagreeable whirlpool of party-struggles, and to be obligedto lead his old warriors once more against a new revolution;yet such was the state of matters at his death in Spain and inItaly, that he could hardly have been spared this task hadhis life been prolonged. Already, when it was suggested thatHis funeral ne should have a public funeral in the capital, numerous'voices, which had been silent in his lifetime, were raisedthere against the last honour which it was proposed to showto the tyrant. But his memory was still too fresh and thedread of his old soldiers too vivid: it was resolved that thebody should be conveyed to the capital and that the ob­sequies should be celebrated there. Italy never witnessed agrander funeral solemnity. In every place through which ,the deceased was borne in regal attire, with his well-knownstandards and fasces before him, the inhabitants and aboveall his old troops joined the mourning train; it seemed asif the whole army would once more meet round the hero indeath, who had in life led it so often and never except tovictory. So the endless funeral procession reached thecapital, where the courts kept holiday and all business wassuspended, and two thousand golden chaplets awaited thedead—the last honorary gifts of the faithful legions, of thecities, and of his more intimate friends. Sulla, faithful tothe usage of the Cornelian house, had ordered that his bodyBhould be buried without being burnt; but others weremore mindful than he was of what past days had done andfuture days might do: by command of the senate thecorpse of the man, who had disturbed the bones of Mariusfrom their rest in the grave, was committed to the flames.Headed by all the magistrates and the whole senate, by the * Not pthiriasis, as another account states; for the simple reason that sucha disease is entirely imaginary.