OCR Output 48 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. These official spies, who regularly corresponded with. XIV' the palace, were encouraged, by favour and reward,anxiously to watch the progress of every treasonabledesign, from the faint and latent symptoms of dis­affection, to the actual preparation of an open revolt.Their careless or criminal violation of truth andjustice was covered by the consecrated mask of zeal;and they might securely aim their poisoned arrowsat the breast either of the guilty or the innocent,who had provoked their resentment, or refused topurchase their silence. A faithful subject, of Syriaperhaps, or of Britain, was exposed to the danger,or at least to the dread, of being dragged in chains,to the court of Milan or Constantinople, to defendhis life and fortune against the malicious charge ofthese privileged informers. The ordinary admini­stration was conducted by those methods which ex­treme necessity can alone palliate; and the defectsof evidence were diligently supplied by the use oftorture. Useoftor- The deceitful and dangerous experiment of theu criminal qucestion, as it is emphatically styled, wasadmitted, rather than approved, in the jurispru­dence of the Romans. They applied this sanguinarymode of examination only to servile bodies, whosesufferings were seldom weighed by those haughty re­publicans in the scale of justice or humanity: butthey would never consent to violate the sacred per­son of a citizen, till they possessed the clearest evi­dence of his guilt *. The annals of tyranny, fromthe reign of Tiberius to that of Domitian, circum­stantially relate the executions of many innocent vic­tims; but, as long as the faintest remembrance waskept alive,of the national freedom and honour, the * The Pandects (1. xlviii. tit. xviii.) contain the sentiments of the most cele­brated civilians on the subject of torture. They strictly confine it to slaves; andUlpian himself is ready to acknowledge, that Res est fragilis, et periculosa, et(mae veritatem fallat.