OCR Output 210 [BOOK Yt. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him, either sword or spear? Now there wasat Nob a servant of Saul's, by birth a* Syrian,whose name was Doeg; one that kept theking's mules. The high-priest said, that hehad no such weapon: but he added, "Hereis the sword of Goliath, which, when thouhadst slain the Philistine, thou didstf dedi­cate to God." When David had received the sword, hefled out of the country of the Hebrews, intothat of the Philistines, over which Achishreigned. And when the king's servants knewhim, and he was made known to the kinghimself, the servants informing him that hewas that David, who had killed many tenthousands of the Philistines, David was afraidlest the king should put him to death, andthat he should experience that danger fromhim which he had escaped from Saul, so hepretended to be distracted and mad; lettinghis spittle run out of his mouth, and doingother actions before the king of Gath, whichmight make him believe that they proceededfrom such a distemper. Accordingly, theking was very angry at his servants that theyhad brought him a madman;J and gave orderthat they should eject David immediately outof the city. When David had escaped in this mannerout of Gath, he came to the tribe of Judah,and abode in a cave, by the city of Adullam.Then it was that he sent to his brethren, andinformed them where he was, who then cameto him with all their kindred, and as manyothers as were either in want, or in fear ofking Saul, came and made a body together,and told him they were ready to obey hisorders. They were in all four hundred.Whereupon he took courage, now such aforce and assistance was come to him. So heremoved hence, and came to the king of theMoabites, and desired him to entertain hisparents in his country, while the issue of hisaffairs were in such an uncertain condition.The king granted him his favour, and payedgreat respect to David's parents, all the timethey were with him. As for himself,|| upon the prophet's com­manding him to leave the desert, and go intothe portion of the tribe of Judah, and abide * Edomite in the Hebrew, Syrian in the Septuagint.t Antiq. vi. 9.| 1 Sam. xvi. 15. there, he complied: and coming to the cityHareth, which was in that tribe, he remainedthere. Now when Saul heard that David hadbeen seen with a multitude about him, he fellinto no small disturbance and trouble. Butas he knew, that David was a bold and cou­rageous man, he suspected that somewhat ex­traordinary would appear from him, and thatopenly also, which would make him weep,and put him into distress. So he called toge­ther his friends and his commanders, and thetribe from which he was himself derived, tothe hill where his palace was, and sitting upona place called Aroura, his courtiers that werein dignities, and the guards of his body beingwith him, he spake thus to them: "you thatare men of my own tribe, I conclude, remem­ber the benefits that I have bestowed uponyou; that I have made some of you owners ofland, and made you commanders, and be­stowed posts of honour upon you, and setsome of you over the common people, andothers over the soldiers. I ask you, there­fore, whether you expect greater donationsfrom the son of Jesse? for I know that youare all inclined towards him; even my ownson Jonathan is of that opinion, and persuadesyou to be of the same. For I am not unac­quainted with the oaths and covenants thatare between him and David; and that Jona­than is a counsellor, and an assistant to thosethat conspire against me; and none of youare concerned about these things; but youkeep silence, and watch to see what will bethe result." When the king had concludedhis speech, not one of the rest of those thatwere present made any answer; but Doegthe Syrian,§ who fed his mules, said, that hesaw David, when he came to the city Nob,to Ahimelech the high-priest; and that helearned future events by his prophesying;that he received food from him, and thesword of Goliath, and was conducted by himwith security whither he desired to go. Saul therefore sent for the high-priest, andfor all his kindred, and said to them, "whatterrible or ungrateful thing hast thou sufferedfrom me, that thou hast received the son ofJesse, and hast bestowed on him both foodand weapons, when he was contriving to get II About an. 1099.§ Or Edomite.