OCR Output 178 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. derahly thirmed; for trusting to the superiority of num­bers, they had detached the corps-de-reserve, to stormthe Roman camp. There, meeting with little resistance,they carried it at the tirst assault: but whilst they weremore intent upon plunder than fighting, the Triarii,*who could not sustain the first charge, got time to sendadvice to the consuls of what passed in the camp, andputting themselves in a body, returned to the general'stent, and of themselves renewed .tlie engagement. Theconsul Manlius too, posted back to the camp, plantedguards at every gate, and left the enemy not an openingto retire through. Despair threw them into a fit of rage,rather than inspired them with courage. For, whenthey had often attempted to force their way, withoutsuccess, a body of youth attacked the consul, whom theyknew by the splendour of his arms. The first volley ofdarts was received by the soldiers who supported him;but the fury of the assailants at last prevailed, for theconsul having received a mortal wound, fell from hishorse, when all his party were routed. , This inspired the Etrurians with fresh courage, andspread universal terror throughout the Roman camp,and it would have ended in the total loss of the day, hadnot the lieutenants carried off the bady of the consul, andopened one of the gates of the camp, for a passage to theenemy. Through it they rushed out with the utmostprecipitation; and by the way, fell in with the otherconsul, who had been victorious, and by his party werealmost all cut to pieces. Thus a glorious victory wasobtained, but the joy was damped by the loss of two oftheir bravest officers. Wherefore, the consul, after the senate had decreedhim the honour of a triumph, declined it, with this apo­logy, " That if the army could go through the ceremony*' of a triumph, without a general, their generous exer-<' tions in the war entitled them to that honour, and he"would subscribe to it with pleasure; but for his own"part, whilst his family were in mourning for the loss * So called from their position, beinir marshalled in the thirdrank, as ttie strength and hopes of their party. They were com-roonjy veterans of experience and known valour.