OCR Output AN. 31 1912.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. I might have thee for my son; when thou wastcome into the world, there was nothing thatcould contribute to thy support for which Iwas not greatly solicitous; nor any thingwherein I thought myself happier than to seethee grown up to man's estate; and that Imight leave thee, at my death, the successorto my dominion; but since it was by God'swill that I became thy father, and is now hiswill that I relinquish thee, bear this conse­cration to God with a generous mind; for Iresign thee up to God, who hath thought fitnow to. require this testimony of honour tohimself on account of the favours he hathconferred on me, in being to me a supporterand defender. Accordingly thou, my son,wilt now die, not in any common way of goingout of the world, but sent to God, the fatherof all men, before hand, by thy own father, inthe nature of a sacrifice. I suppose he thinksthee worthy to leave this world, neither bydisease, by war, nor any other severe wayby which death usually comes upon men, butso that he will receive thy soul with prayersand holy offices of religion, and will placethee near to himself, and thou wilt there beto me a succourer and supporter in my oldage, on which account I principally broughtthee up; and thou wilt thereby procure meGod for my comforter instead of thyself." Now Isaac was of such a generous dispo­sition as became the son of such a father,and was pleased with this discourse, andsaid that he was not worthy to be born atfirst, if he should reject the determination ofGod and of his father, and should not resignhimself up readily to both their pleasures;since it would have been unjust if he had notobeyed, even if his father alone had so re­solved: so he went immediately to the altarto be sacrificed; and the deed had been * It seems both here, and in God's parallel blessing toJacob, c. 19. that Josephus had yet no notion of the hiddenmeaning of that most important and most eminent promise,In thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed;he saith not of seeds, as of many, but as of one; and tothy seed, which is Christ, Gal. iii. 16. Nor is it anywonder, he being,' I think, as yet not a Christian: andhad he been a Christian, yet since he was till the latterpart of his life no more than an Ebonite Christian, whoabove all the apostles rejected and despised St. Paul, itwould be no great wonder if he did not now follow hisinterpretation. In the mean time we have in effect. St.Paul's exposition in the testament of Reuben in Authent.Rec. part I. page 302, who charges his sons " To worship VOL. L—No. 3. done if God had not opposed it, for he calledloudly to Abraham by his name, and forbadehim to slay his son, and said it was not out ofa desire of human blood that he was com­manded to slay his son, nor was he willingthat he should be taken away from him whomhe had made his father, but to try the temperof his mind, whether he would be obedientto such a command: since, therefore, he nowwas satisfied as to the surprising readinesshe shewed in his piety, he was delighted inhaving bestowed such blessings upon him,and that he would not be wanting in all sortof concern about him; and that his sonshould live to a very great age, that he shouldlive a happy life, and bequeath a large prin­cipality to his children, who should be goodand legitimate. He foretold also that hisfamily should increase into many nations,*and that those patriarchs should leave behindthem an everlasting name; that they shouldobtain the possession of the land of Canaan,and be envied by all men. When God hadsaid this, he produced to them a ram,f whichdid not appear before, for the sacrifice; soAbraham and Isaac receiving each other un­expectedly, and having obtained the pro­mises of such great blessings, embraced oneanother; and when they had sacrificed, theyreturned to Sarah, and lived happily together,God affording them his assistance in allthings they desired. CHAP. XIV. OF THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF SARAH, ABRAHAM'S WIFE. NOW SarahJ died a little while after­ward, having lived one hundred andtwenty-seven years. They buried her inHebron, the Canaanites publicly allowing the seed of Judah, who should die for them in visible andinvisible wars, and should be among them an eternal king."Nor is that observation of a learned foreigner of myacquaintance to be despised, who takes notice, that asseeds in the plural must signify posterity, so seed in thesingular may signify either posterity, or a single person;and that in this promise of all nations being happy in theseed of Abraham, or Isaac, or Jacob, &c. it is alwaysused in the singular; to which I shall add, that it is some­times, as it were, paraphrased by the son of Abraham, theson of David, &.c. which is capable of no such ambiguity.See Boyle's Lectures, page 247—272. t Gen. xxii. 13. I Gen. xxiii. 1. 2. An. 1900. I