OCR Output 3<*4 THE DECLINE AND FALL Power ofCvaufiaia A.D. »8a,acknowledg­ed by theother empe.iors. become the seat of an independent monarchy *7. During the spaceof seven years, it was possessed by Caraufius j and fortune con­tinued propitious to a rebellion, supported with courage and ability.The British emperor defended the frontiers of his dominions againstthe Caledonians of the North, invited, from the continent, a greatnumber of skilful artists, and displayed, on a variety of coinsthat are still extant, his taste and opulence. Born on the confinesof the Franks, he courted the friendship of that formidable people,by the flattering imitation of their dress and manners. Thebravest of their youth he enlisted among his land or sea forces;and in return for their useful alliance, he communicated to thebarbarians the dangerous knowledge of military and naval arts.Caraufius still preserved the possession of Boulogne and the ad­jacent country. His fleets rode triumphant in the "channel, com­manded the mouths of the Seine and of the Rhine, ravaged thecoasts of the ocean, and diffused beyond the columns of Hercules theterror of his name. Under his command, Britain, destined in afuture age, to obtain the empire of the sea, already assumed itsnatural and respectable station of a maritime power *8. By seizing the fleet of Boulogne, Caraufius had deprived hismaster of the means of pursuit and revenge. And when, after avast expence of time and labour, a new armament was launchedinto the water*9, the imperial troops, unaccustomed to that eleiv.ent,were easily baffled and defeated by the veteran sailors of. theusurper. This disappointed effort was soon productive of atreaty of peace. Diocletian and his colleague, who justly dreadedthe enterprising spirit of Caraufius, resigned to him the sovereigntyof Britain, and reluctantly admitted their perfidious servant to aparticipation of the imperial honours'0. But the adoption of thetwo Cæsars restored new vigour to the Roman arms; and while theRhine was guarded by the presence of Maximian, his brave as­sociate Constantius, assumed the conduct of the British war. His z first,