OCR Output 150 [Book IV. THE RULE OF THE RESTORATJO. Cancellingof thetreaty.Declarationof war.111-110.110. brought about; even Scaurus was evidently open to bribery,only at a price higher than the ordinary senatorial average.The legal validity of the peace was seriously assailed in thesenate; Gaius Memmius declared that the king, if he hadreally submitted unconditionally, could not refuse to appearin Rome, and that he should accordingly be summoned beforethem, with the view of ascertaining the real facts as to thethoroughly irregular negotiations for peace by hearing thetwo contracting parties. They yielded to the inconvenientdemand: but at the same time granted a safe-conduct tothe king inconsistently with the law, for he came not as anenemy, but as one who had made his submission. There­upon the king actually appeared at Rome and presentedhimself to be heard before the assembled people, which waswith difficulty induced to respect the safe-conduct and torefrain from tearing in pieces on the spot the murderer of theItalians at Cirta. But scarcely had Gaius Memmius addressedhis first question to the king, when one of his colleagues in­terfered in virtue of his veto and enjoined the king to besilent. Here too African gold was more powerful than thewill of the sovereign people and of its supreme magistrates.Meanwhile the discussions respecting the validity of thepeace so concluded went on in the senate, and the new con­sul Spurius Postumius Albinus zealously supported theproposal to cancel it, in the expectation that in that casethe chief command in Africa would devolve on him. Thisinduced Massiva, a grandson of Massinissa living in Rome,to assert before the senate his claims to the vacant Numidiankingdom; upon which Bomilcar, one of the confidants ofking Jugurtha, doubtless under his instructions made awaywith the rival of his master by assassination, and, when hewas prosecuted on account of it, escaped with Jugurtha'said from Rome. This new outrage perpetrated under the eyes of theRoman government was at least so far effectual, that thesenate now cancelled the peace and dismissed the king fromthe city (winter of 643-644). The war was accordingly re­sumed, and the consul Spurius Albinus was invested withthe command (644). But the African army was down toits lowest grades in a state of disorganization correspondingto such a political and military superintendence. Not onlyhad discipline ceased and the spoliation of Numidian town­ships and even of the Roman provincial territory been