OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 293 Lilybaeum and all the maritime states were exposed toimminent danger, he informed him that there weremany to whom a revolution would be highly agreeable:for these reasons the consul judged that he ought with­out making any delay, to sail on directly to Lilybaeum,whither he was accompanied by the king and his fleet.On their passage they received the news of the fight ofLilybaeum, of the discomfiture of the enemy, and thecapture of their ships. . 51. From Lilybaeum the consul, after dismissingking Hiero with his fleet, and leaving the pretor todefend the coast of Sicily, sailed over to the island ofMelita, which was in the possession of the Carthagi­nians. Immediately on his arrival, Hamilcar, son ofGisgo, commander of the garrison, and somewhat lessthan two thousand soldiers, together with the townand the island, were surrendered into his hands. Fromthence he returned in a few days to Lilybaeum, whereall the prisoners taken by the consul, and by the pre­tor, except those who were of distinguished birth,were sold by public auction. When the consul thoughtthat side of Sicily sufficiently secured, he sailed overto the islands of Vulcan, because there was a reportthat the Carthaginian fleet lay there ; but he met withnone at those islands, for it happened that they hadalready passed over to ravage the coast of Italy, and,after laying waste the territory of Vibo, were nowthreatening that city. When he was on his return toSicily, he was informed of the descent made by theenemy on the territory of Vibo. Letters were at thesame time delivered to him from the senate, containingan account of Hannibal's having entered Italy, andalso orders to come to the support of his colleaguewith all possible expedition. So many objects de­manding his attention at once, he instantly embarkedhis troops, and sent them by the upper sea to Arimi-num ; appointed Sextus Pomponius, lieutenant-gene­ral, with twenty ships of war, to defend the territoryof Vibo and the sea-coast of Italy; made up a fleet