OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW8. 297 son, and Barzaphames, a commander of the Parthians, possessedthemselves of Syria. Ptolemy, the son of Menncus, also wasnow dead, and Lysanias his son took his goverment, and madea league of friendship with Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus;and in order to obtain it, made use of that commander, who hadgreat interest in him. Now Antigonus had promised to give theParthians athousand talents, and five hundred women, upon con­ditions they would take the government away from Hyrcanus,and bestow it upon him, and withal kill Herod. And althoughhe did not give them what he had promised, yet did the Par­thians make an expedition into Judea on that account, and car­ried Antigonus with them. Pacorus went along the maritimeparts, but the commander Barzapharnes, through the midland.Now the Tyrians excluded Pacorus, but the Sidonians, and thoseof Ptolemais, received him. However, Pacorus sent a troop ofhorsemen into Judea, to take a view of the state of the country,and to assist Antigonus; and sent also the king's butler, of thesame name with himself. So when the Jews that dwelt aboutmount Carmel came to Antigonus, and were ready to marchwith him into Judea, Antigonus hoped to get some part of thecountry by their assistance. The place is called Drymi; andwhen some others came and met them, the men privately fellupon Jerusalem; and when some more were come to them, theygot together in great numbers, and came against the king'spalace and besieged it. But as Phasaelus' and Herod's partycame to the other's assistance, and a battle happened betweenthem in the market-place, the young men beat their enemies,and pursued them into the temple, and sent some armed men in­to the adjoining houses, to keep them in, who yet being desti­tute of such as should support them, were burnt, and the houseswith them, by the people who rose up against them. But He­rod was revenged on these seditious adversaries of his a little af­terward for this injury they had offered him» when he foughtwith them, and slew a great number of them. 4. But while there were daily skirmishes, the enemy waitedfor the coming of the multitude out of'the country to Pentecost,a feast of ours so called: and when that day was come, manyten thousands of the people were gathered together about thetemple, some in armour, and some without. Now those thatcame, guarded both the temple and the city, excepting whatbelonged to the palace, which Herod guarded with a few of hissoldiers; and Phasaelus had the charge of the wall, while He­rod, with a body of his men, sallied out upon the enemy, wholay in the suburbs, and fought courageously, and put many tenthousands to flight, some flying into the city, and some into thetemple, and some into the outer fortifications, for some such