OCR Output Chop. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 21 and added withal that he was mad: he replied, you guess right,for the words he spake were the words of a madman: and whenthey were e^ger about the matter, and desired he would tell them,he answered, that God had said, he had chosen him to be king"over the multitude." When he had said this, every one ofthem * put off his garment, and strewed it under him, and blewwith trumpets, and gave notice, that Jehu was king. So whenhe had gotten the army together, he was preparing to set out im足mediately against Joram, at the city Jezreel, in which city, as wesaid before, he was healing of the wound which he had receivedin the siege of Ramoth. It happened also that Ahaziah, king ofJerusalem, was now come to Joram, for he was his sister's son,as we have said already, to see how he did after his wound, andthis upon account of their kindred; but as Jehu was desirous tofall upon Joram and those with him on the sudden, he desired thatnone of the soldiers might run away and tell to Joram what hadhappened, for that this would be an evident demonstration oftheir kindness to him, and would show that their real inclinationswere to make him king. 3. So they were pleased with what he did, and guarded theroads, lest somebody should privately tell the thing to those thatwere at Jezreel. Now Jehu took his choice horsemen, and satupon his chariot, and went on for Jezreel, and when he was comenear, the watchman whom Joram had sent there to spy out suchas came to the city, saw Jehu marching on, and told Joram thathe saw a troop of horsemen marching on. Upon which heimmediately gave orders, that one of his horsemen should besent out to meet them, and to know who it was that was com足ing. So when the horseman came up to Jehu, he asked him,m what condition the army was? for that the king wanted toknow it; but Jehu bid him not at all to meddle with such mat足ters, but to follow him. When the watchman saw this, he toldJoram that the horseman had mingled himself among the com足pany, and came along with them. And when the king had senta second messenger, Jehu commanded him to do as the formerdid; as soon as the watchman told this also to Joram, he at lastgot upon his chariot himself, together with Ahaziah, the kingof Jerusalem; for, as we said before, he was there to see howJoram did, after he had been wounded, as being his relation.So he went out to meet Jehu, who marched j- slowly, and in * Spanheim bere notes that this putting off men's garments and strewing themunder a king, was an eastern custom, which he elsewhere explained. t Our copies say, that this "driving of the chariots was like the driving of'' Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he driveth furiously," 2 Kings ix. SO. whereasJosephus' copy, as he understood it, was this, trtat, on the contrary, Jehumarched slowly and in good order. Nor can it be denied, that since there wasmterval enough for king Jor,im, to send out two horsemen, one after another,