OCR Output 352 [book k. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sacrifices upon the altar. The king also sentto the country that was under him; and calledthe people to Jerusalem, to celebrate thefeast of unleavened bread;* for it had beenintermitted a long time, on account of thewickedness of the aforementioned kings. Healso sent to the Israelites, and exhorted themto leave off their present way of living, andto return to their ancient practices, and toworship God; for that he gave them leave tocome to Jerusalem, and to celebrate, all inone body, the feast of unleavened bread: andthis he said was by way of invitation only,and to be done of their own good will, andfor their own advantage, and not out of obe­dience to him; because it would make themhappy. But the Israelites, upon the arrival of theambassadors, and upon their laying beforethem what they had in charge from theirown king, were so far from complying there­with, that they laughed the ambassadors toscorn, and mocked them as fools; they alsoaffronted the prophets, who gave them thesame exhortations; and foretold what theywould suffer if they did not return to theworship of God; insomuch that they caughtthem, and slew them. Nor did this degree oftransgressing suffice them; but they had morewicked contrivances than what have beendescribed. Nor did they leave off, beforeGod, as a punishment for their impiety,brought them under their enemies. But ofthat more hereafter. There were, however,many of the tribe of Manasseh, and of Zab-ulon, and of Issachar.t who were obedient towhat the prophets exhorted them to do; andall these came running to Jerusalem, to Heze-kiah, that they might worship God there. When these men were come, king Heze-kiah went up into the temple, with the rulersand all the people, and offered for himselfseven bulls, and as many rams; with sevenlambs, and seven kids of the goats. Theking also and the rulers laid their hands on the heads of the sacrifices, and permitted thepriests to complete the sacred offices aboutthem. So they both slew the sacrifices, andburnt the burnt-offerings; while the Levitesstood round about them, with their musicalinstruments,^; and sang hymns to God, andplayed on their psalteries; as they were in­structed to do; and this while the rest of thepriests returned the music, and sounded thetrumpets which they had in their hands. Andwhen this was done, the king and the multi­tude prostrated themselves and worshippedGod. Seventy bulls, one hundred rams, andtwo hundred lambs, were sacrificed by theking, who also granted the multitude sacri­fices to feast upon, six hundred oxen, andthree thousand other cattle; and the priestsperformed all things according to the law.Now the king was so pleased herewith, thathe feasted with the people, and returnedthanks to God. But as the least of unleavenedbread was now come, when they had offeredthat sacrifice which is called the passover,they afterwards offered other sacrifices forseven days. When the king had bestowedon the multitude, beside what they sacrificedof themselves, two thousand bulls, and seventhousand other cattle; the same thing wasdone by the rulers. For they gave them athousand bulls, and a thousand and fortyother cattle. Nor had this festival been ob­served from the days of king Solomon, withsuch great splendour and magnificence; andwhen the festival was ended, they went outinto the country, and purged it, and cleansedthe city of all the pollution of the idols. Theking also gave order that the daily sacrificesshould be offered, at his own expense, andaccording to the law; and appointed that thetithes and the first fruits should be given bythe multitude to the priests and the Levites;that they might constantly attend upon divineservice, and never be taken off from theworship of God. Accordingly the multitudebrought together all sorts of their fruits to * 2 Chron. xxx. 1. t Asher, Hebrew and Septuagint. j Moses, in the service of the tabernacle, did not ap­point the use of many musical instruments; only he causedsome trumpets to be made, which upon solemn occasions,were to be sounded, at the time when the burnt-offeringand peace-offering were upon the altar, Numb. x. 10.But David, by the advice of the prophets Gad and Na­than, introduced several kinds of music into the service of the temple, as a thing highly conducive to inspire peoplewith respect, with joy, and with affection for the solem­nities and assemblies of religion, 1 Chron. xxiii. 5. andxxv. 1. and it is farther observable, that the institution ofmusic, in religious assemblies, is not a matter of humaninvention, but was ordained by God, and has the sanctionand authority of his prophets to confirm it—for so wasthe commandment of the Lord by his prophets, 2 Chron.xxix. 25. B.