OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ous inquiry into the creed of the apostle.1 His favouriteGoths, and even his mother, were permitted to retain orembrace the Athanasian faith, and his long reign couldnot afford the example of an Italian Catholic, who eitherfrom choice or compulsion, had deviated into the religionof the conqueror.' The people, and the barbarians them­selves, were edified by the pomp and order of religiousworship; the magistrates were instructed to defend thejust immunities of ecclesiastical persons and possessions;the bishops held their synods, the metropolitans exercisedtheir jurisdiction, and the privileges of sanctuary were'maintained or moderated according to the spirit of theRoman jurisprudence.1 With the protection, Theodoricassumed the legal supremacy, of the church; and his firmadministration restored or extended some useful preroga­tives, which had been neglected by the feeble emperorsof the west. He was not ignorant of the dignity andimportance of the Roman pontiff, to whom the vene­rable name of Pope was now appropriated. The peaceor the revolt of Italy might depend on the character ofa wealthy and popular bishop, who claimed such ampledominion, both in heaven and earth; who had been de­clared in a numerous synod to be pure from all sin, andexempt from all judgment.™ When the chair of St.Peter was disputed by Symmachus and Laurence, theyappeared at his summons before the tribunal of an Arianmonarch, and he confirmed the election of the mostworthy or the most obsequious candidate. At the end 1 Devotissimus ac si Catbolious ; (Anonym. Vales, p. 720.)yet his offering was nomore than two silver candlesticks (cerostrata) of the weight of seventy pounds, far in­ferior to the gold and gems of Constantinople and France. (Anastasius in Vit. Pont,in Hnrinisda, p. 34. edit. Paris.) k The tolerating system of his reign (Ennodius, p. 1612. Anonym. Vales, p. 719.Procop. Goth. lib. 1. c. 1. lib. 2. c.6.)may be studied in the Epist les of Cassiodorius,under the following heads: bishops, (Var. 1. 9. 8. 15. 24.11. 23.) immunities, (1. 26.2.29. 3P. ) churchlands,{4.17. 20.) sanctuaries, (2.11.3. 47.) church-plate,(12. 20.)discipline; (4. 44.) which prove at the same time that he was the head of the churchas welt as of the state. 1 We may reject a foolish tale of his beheading a Catholic deacon who turnedArian. (Theodor. Lector, no. 17.) Wby is Theodoric surnamed Afer? From Vafer f(Vales, ad. loc.) A light conjecture. "Knnodius, p. 1621,1622. 1636.1638. , His libel was approved and registered(synodaliter) by a Roman council. (Baronius, A. D. 503. no. 6. Franciscns Pagi inBreviar. Pont. Rom. tom. 1. p. 242.) D 2