OCR Output 418 KEOKTEICHOS. KEMORENSIS LACUS. NEMORENSIS LACUS. [Aricia.1N K M OSSl JS. [ A no uston km ktum. JNEMl'S DIANAE. [Aricia.]NENTIDAVA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 774, b.]XEOCAESAREIA(NeoKOiffapffia: tfrt.Neoicai-traptvs). 1. A town in Pontus Polemoniacus, which,on account of its late origin, is not mentioned byany writer before the time of Pliny, *as situated onthe eastern bank of the river Lycus, 63 miles to theeast of Anuria. (Plin. vi. 3; Tab. Pculing.) Itwas the capital of the district, and celebrated for itssize and beauty, and is of historical importance onaccount of the ecclesiastical council held there ina. I>. 314. We possess no information about thedate of it.-* foundation; but the earliest coins we haveof it bear the image of the emperor Tiberius; whenceit is probable that Neocaesareia was founded, or atleast received that name, in the reign of Tiberius,when Strabo. who does not notice it, had alreadycoin[msed his work. It must have rapidly risen inextent and prosperity, a* in the time of GregoriusTliaumaturgus, who was a native of the place, it wasthe most considemhle town in Pont us. (Greg.Neocaes. Vit. p. 577; Amm. Marc, xxvii. 12;Hierucl. p. 702; Basil, Episi. 210; Acta Eutych.c 7; cotnp. Stepli. B. t. v.; Solin. 45; Ptol. v. 6.§ 10.) According to Paul us Diaconus {Hist. Misc.ii. 18), the town was once destroyed by an earth­quake; and from Stephanus Byz. it raems that atotic time it was called Adriauopolis. The town stillexitts under a corrupt form of its ancient name,JVicsnr or Xicsura, at a distance of two days* journeynorth ot TnkaL As to the supposed identity ofCahira and Xeocaesareia, see Camka. 2. A town of Uithynia, of uncertain site. (Steph.B. i.v.; Hierocl. p. 693; Concil. Const vol. iii. p.668.) [L. S.] NEOCLAUDI0P0LIS. [Axdrapa.]NEOCOJIUM. [Comi'M.JNEON (Nttbv; Etk. Nfwfio*), an ancient townof Phot-is, said to have been built after the Trojanwar (Strab. ix. p. 439), was situated at the foot ofMt. liih«>rea. one of the peaks of Mt. Parnassus.Herodotus rela*es that, when the Persian army in-vmled Phocis, many of the Phocians took refuge inTithorea near Neon (viii. 32), and that the lattercity was destroyed by the Persians (viii, 33). Itwas, however, afterwards rebuilt; but was again de­stroyed, with the other Phocian towns, at the end•f the Sacred War. (Paus. x. 3. § 2.) In itsneighbourhood, Philomelua, the Phocian general, wasdefeated, and periahed in the flight by throwinghimself down from a lofty rock. (Pans, x. 2. § 4.)Neon now disappears from history, and in its placewe read of a townTlTHOHKA, which is described byPausantas (x. 32. § 8, seq.). This writer regardsTithurea as situated on the same site as Neon ; andrelates that Tithurea was the name anciently appliedto the whole district, and that when the inhabitantsof the neighbouring villages were collected in thecity, the name of Tithorea was substituted for thatof Neon. This, however, is not in accordance withthe statement of Plutarch, according to whom Ti­thorea, in the time of the Milhridalic war, was afortress surrounded by precipitous rocks, where thePhocians took refuge from Xerxes. He furtherstates that it was not such a city as the one ex­iting in his day. (Pint. Sull 15.) If the view ofPlutarch is correct, that the fortress, the site ofwhich was afterwards occupied by the city Ti­thorea, was the place where the Phocians took re- fuge from Xerxes, we may conclude that Tithoreaand Neon were two different places. The city, which existed in the time of Plntsrcaand Pansanias, was a place of some imports**,though it had begun to decline for a general** be­fore the time of Pansanias. The latter writer mo­tions, however, a theatre, the enclosure of an artvetagora, a temple of Athena, and the t«*nb of Asiirpeand Phocus. A river flowed by Tillwirra, cau>iCachales (Kax^Ant), to which the inhabitant* oaito descend in order to obtain water. In the trm'.iryof Tithorea, but at the distance of 70 stadia from thecity, was a temple of Asclcpius, and sko, at tUdistance of 40 stadia, a shrine of Iaia. (Pans. x. 32.§§ 8—13.) The name is written Ti&ofna hi Hero­dotus and Pansanias, TiBopala in Stephanos B,Ttotya in Plutarch, but Ti86ppa in inwnf.u>TAThe Ethnic name in Pansanias is Tciapeevf, io Sts-phanus TtBopaitvt. but in inscriptions Tt6opt+t. The ruins of Tithorea are situated at 1 Vitas, avillage at the NE. foot of ML Panuusos. The ateis fixed by an inscription found at Yetitia. in *h*tthe name of Tithorea occurs. Two-thirds of themodern village stand within the ruined wall* of it*ancient city. A considerable portion of the walls.and many of the towers, still remain. The townwas carefully fortified towards the W. and NW., stdwas sufficiently protected towards the NE. and i.by the precipitous banks of the Cschsle*, and to­wards the S. by the steep sides of alt, Psrnsaru,The walls are almost 9 feet broad. The CacUW,which now bears the name of Kakomamta, or theevii torrent, flows in a ravine below the Tillage, sadthus illustrates the statement of Psusania*. that theinhabitants descended to it in order to obtain «at*x.Behind VeUtza, ascending the Cachales, there is acavern on the steep side of the rock, which, duna£the last war of independence, received a great numberof fugitives. It is very spacious, is supplied w:aexcellent water, and is quite tinpregnablr. This atprobably the place where the inhabitants of Xasaand the surrounding places took refuge in the Per­sian invasion, as the Delphians did in the Cory cancave [see Vol. I. p. 768], more especially as ta#height immediately above Velitxa is not adapted ktsuch a purpose. A difficult mole path lewd* atpresent through the ravine of the Cachales auaasthe heights of Parnassus to Delphi In the time JPansanias there were two roads from Tithorea arna*the mountain to Delphi, one direct, the other longer,but practicable for carriages. Pansanias assigns WMadia as the length of the shorter road ; bat lbs*number cannot be correct, as Leake observe** sits*the direct distance is hardly less than 12 geogra­phical miles. Most modem writers hsve followed Psnsamas nidentifying Tithorea and Neon ; but I'lruhs, for tis*reasons which hsve been already stated, topfc<«athem to bare been different cities, and plsrv* N»oat the Hellenic ruins on the Cephissua, railed /We*Fira, distant 1$ hour, or 3\ English miles, from IV-litxa. (Leake, A'orfAem Greece, voL iL p 77. My;LTricha, in Hhrinisckes J/Wwst, 1843, p 544, mi ) NEONTEICHOS (Nssw rt^st). an Amu^etown not far from the mast of Mvmta, situs!sdbetween the Hermns and the town of Lsriasa, fnmwhich its distance was only 30 stadia. It ■ »**] t*hsve been foanded by the Aeobsjts.s* s temporary Ue\•>n their first arrival in Asia. Accurding to &4r»hv(xiii. p. 621), the place was more ancient even thssCyme; but according to a lUlroataf in ths Vk»