OCR Output Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 311 the forces that were about him, and immediately drove back theenemy; by which means he made the minds of his own mencourageous, and emboldened Intern to go on, insomuch that thosewho ran away before, now returned back, and the Barbarianswere slain on all sides. The king also went on killing them, andrecovered all the baggage, among which were a great numberof beasts for burden, and of slaves, and proceeded on in hismarch; and whereas there were a very great number of those inthe woods that attacked them, and were near the passage thatletl into the plain, he made a sally upon these also with a strongbody of men; and put them to flight, and slew many of them,and thereby rendered the way safe for those that came after;and these called Herod their saviour and protector. 9. And when he was near to Samosata, Antony sent out hisarmy in all their proper habiliments to meet him, in order topay Herod this respect, and because of the assistance he had givenhim, for he had heard what attacks the Barbarians had madeupon him [in Judea.] He also was very glad to see him there,as having been made acquainted with the great actions he hadperformed upon the road: so he entertained him very kindly,and could not but admire his courage. Antony also embracedhim as soon as he saw him, and saluted him after a most affection足ate manner, and gave him the upper hand, as having himself late足ly made him a king; and in a little time Antiochus delivered upthe fortress, and on that account this war was at an end; thenAntony committed the rest to Sosius, and gave him orders toassist Herod, and went himself to Egypt. Accordingly Sosiussent two legions before into Judea to the assistance of Herod,and he followed himself with the body of the army. 10. Now Joseph was already slain in Judea, in the mannerfollowing: He forgot what charge. his brother Herod had givenhim when he went to Antony; and when he had pitched hiscamp among the mountains; for Macherus had lent him fiveregiments, with these he went hastily to Jericho, in order toreap the corn thereto belonging: and as the Roman regimentswere but newly raised, and were unskilful in war, for they werein great part collected out of Syria, he was attacked by the ene足my, and caught in those places of difficulty, and was himselfslain, as he was fighting bravely, and the whole army was lost,for there were six regiments slain. So when Antigonus had gotpossession of the dead bodies, he cut off Joseph's head, althoughPheroras his brother would have redeemed it at the price offifty talents. After which defeat the Galileans revolted fromtheir commanders, and took those of Herod's party, and drownedthem in the lake, and a great part of Judea was become sedi足tious; but Macherus fortified the place Gitta [in Samaria.]