OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS 155 2. There was now one Joseph, young in age, but of great re­putation among the people of Jerusalem, for gravity, prudence,and justice. His father's name was Tobias; and his mother wasthe sister of Onias the high priest, who informed him of thecoming of the ambassador: for he was then sojourning at a vil­lage named * Phicol, where he was bom. Hereupon he cameto the city [Jerusalem], and reproved Onias for not taking careof the preservation of his countrymen, but bringing the nationinto dangers, by not paying this money. For which preserva­tion of them, he told him he had received the authority overthem, and had been made high priest: But that, in case he wasso great a lover of money, as to endure to see his country indanger on that account, and his countrymen suffer the greatestdamages, he advised him to go to the king, and petition him toremit either the whole, or part of the sum demanded. Onias'answer was this, that he did not care for his authority, and thathe was ready, if the thing were practicable, to lay down hishigh priesthood; and that he would not go to the king, becausehe troubled not himself at all about such matters. Joseph thenasked him, If he would not give him leave to go ambassador onbehalf of the nation? He replied, that he would give him leave-Upon which Joseph went up into the temple; and called the mul­titude together, to a congregation, and exhorted them not to bedisturbed nor affrighted, because of his uncle Onias' careless­ness, but desired them to be at rest, and not terrify themselveswith fear about it; for he promised them that he would be theirambassador to the king, and persuade him that they had donehim no wrong. And when the multitude heard this, they re­turned thanks to Joseph. So he went down from the temple,and treated Ptolemy's ambassador in a hospitable manner.He also presented him with rich gifts; and feasted him magni­ficently for many days, and then sent him to the king beforehim, and told him that he would soon follow him: for he wasnow more willing to go to the king, by the encouragement ofthe ambassador, who earnestly persuaded him to come intoEgypt; and promised him that he would take care that heshould obtain every thing that he desired of Ptolemy, for hewas highly pleased with his frank and liberal temper, and withthe gravity of his deportment. 3. When Ptolemy's ambassador was come into Egypt, he toldthe king of the thoughtless temper of Onias; and informed himof the goodness of the disposition of Joseph; and that he was * The name of this place, Phicol, is the very same with that of the chief captainof Abimelech's host, in the days of Abraham, Gen. xxi. 22. and might possibly bethe place of that Fhicol's nativity or abode, for it seems to have been in the southpart of Palestine, as ihnt was. vou iI. u 19