OCR Output 84 ROMAN EMPIRE. to solicit a colony of smiths, carpenters, tilers, masons,printers, surgeons, and physicians, for the use of theircountry. But the public danger soon called for the in­stant and effectual aid of arms and soldiers to defend anunwarlike people from the barbarians who ravaged theinland country, and the Turks and Arabs who advancedfrom the sea-coast in more formidable array. Ethiopiawas saved by four hundred and fifty Portuguese, whodisplayed in the field the native valour of Europeans,and the artificial powers of the musket and cannon. Ina moment of terror, the emperor had promised to recon­cile himself and his subjects to the Catholic faith; aLatin patriarch represented the supremacy of the pope ;uthe empire, enlarged in a tenfold proportion, was sup­posed to contain more gold than the mines of America;and the wildest hopes of avarice and zeal were built onthe willing submission of the Christians of Africa.„. . . But the vows which pain had extorted, werethe Jesuits, forsworn on the return of health. The Abys-sinians still adhered with unshaken constancyto the Monophysite faith; their languid belief was in­flamed by the exercise of dispute; they branded theLatins with the names of Arians and Nestorians, andimputed the adoration of four gods to those who sepa­rated the two natures of Christ. Fremona, a place ofworship, or rather of exile, was assigned to the Jesuitmissionaries. Their skill in the liberal and mechanicarts, their theological learning, and the decency oftheir manners, inspired a barren esteem; but they werenot endowed with the gift of miracles," and they vainlysolicited a reinforcement of European troops. The "John Bermudez, whose relation, printed at Lisbon, 1569, was translated intoEnglish by Purchat), (Pilgrims, lib. 7. c. 7. p. 1149, &c.) and from thence intoFrench )»y La Croze, (Christianisme d'.£thiope, p. 9t—165.) The piece is curious;,bat the author may be suspected of deceiving Abyssinia, Rome, and Portugal.His title to the rank of patriarch is dark and doubtful. (Ludolph. Comment, no.101. p. 473.) * Religio Romana .... nee precibus patrum nee miraculis ab ipsis editis snf-fultiebatur, is the uncontradicted assurance of the devout emperor Susneus to hispatriarch Mendez; (Ludolpb. Comment, no. 126. |,. 529.) and such assurances,should be preciously kept, as an antidote against any marvellous legends.