OCR Output THE DECLINE AN 13 FALL lawful heirs of the blood and sceptre of Clovis, a younger branch, from the brea­ther of Dagobert, of the Merovingian house. Their ancient kingdom was reducedto the duchy of Gascogne, to the counties of Fesenzac and Armagnac, at the footOf the Pyrenees: their race was propagated till the beginning of the sixteenth cen­tury; and, after surviving their Carlovingian tyrants, they were reserved to feelthe injustice, or the favours, of a third dynasty. By the reunion of Aquitain, Francewas enlarged to its present boundaries, with the additions of the Netherlands andSpain, as far as the Rhine. II. The Saracens had been expelled from France bythe grandfather and father of Charlemagne; but they still possessed the greatestpart of Spain, from the rock of Gibraltar to the Pyrenees. Amidst their civil di­visions, an Arabian emir of Saragossa implored his protection in the diet of Pa-derborn. Charlemagne undertook the expedition, restored the emir, without dis­tinction of faith, impartially crushed the resistance of the Christians, and rewardedthe obedience and service of the Mahometans. In his absence he instituted theSpanish march,{\) which extended from the Pyrenees to the river Ebro: Barce­lona was the residence of the French governor: he possessed the counties of 2?ou-sillon and Catalonia; and the infant kingdoms of Navarre and Arragon were sub­ject to his jurisdiction. III. As king of the Lombards, and patrician of Rome,he reigned over the greatest part of Italy,(2) a tract of a thousand miles from theAlps to the borders of Calabria. The duchy of Beneventum, a Lombard fief,had spread, at the expense of the Greeks, over the modern kingdom of Naples.But Arrechis, the reigning duke, refused to be included in the slavery of his coun­try; assumed the independent title of prince: and opposed his sword to the Car­lovingian monarchy. His defence was firm, his submission was not inglorious,and the emperor was content with an easy tribute, the demolition of his fortresses,• and acknowledgment, on his coins, of a supreme lord. The artful flattery of hisSon Grimoald added the appellation of father, but he asserted his dignity with pru­dence, and Beneventum insensibly escaped from the French yoke. (3) IV. Char­lemagne was the first who united Germany under the same sceptre. The nameof Oriental France is preserved in the circle of Franconia; and the people ofHesse and Thuringia, were recently incorporated with the victors, by the confor­mity of religion and government. The Alemanni, so formidable to the Romans,were the faithful vassals and confederates of the Franks; and their country wasinscribed within the modern limits of Alsace, Sivabia, and Switzerland. The Ba­varians, with a similar indulgence of their laws and manners, were less patient ofa master: the repeated treasons of Tasillo justified the abolition of her hereditarydukes; and their power was shared among the counts, who judged and guardedthat important frontier. But the north of Germany, from the Rhine and beyondthe Elbe, was still hostile and pagan; nor was it till after a war of thirty-threeyears that the Saxons bowed under the yoke of Christ and of Charlemagne. Theidols and their votaries were extirpated: the foundation of eight bishoprics, ofMunster, Osnaburg, Paderborn, and Minden, of Bremen, Verden, Hildesheim,and Halberstadt, define on either side of the Weser, the bounds of ancient Saxo­ny: these episcopal seats were the first schools and cities Of that savage land; andthe religion and humanity of the children atoned, in some degree, for the massa­cre of the parents. Beyond the Elbe, the Slavi, or Sclavonics, of similar man-tiers and various denominations, overspread the modern dominions of Prussia, Po­land, and Bohemia, and some transient marks of obedience have tempted theFrench historian to extend the empire to the Baltic and the Vistula. The conquestor conversion of those countries is of a more recent age; but the first union of Bo­hemia with the Germanic body may be justly ascribed to the arms of Charlemagne.V. He retaliated on the Avars, or Huns, of Pannonia, the same calamities whichthey had inflicted on the nations. Their rings, the wooden fortifications whichencircled their districts and villages, were broken down by the triple effort of aFrench army, that was poured into their country by land and water, through theCarpathian mountains, and along the plains of the Danube. After a bloody con- xnily of Montesquieu, (not of the president de Montesquieu) is descended in the female line from Clotaire andClovis—an innocent pretension! (1) The governors or counts of the Spanish march revolted from Charles the Simple about the year 900; anda poorpittance, the Ronaillon, has been recovered in 1642. by the kings of France. (Longnerue, Descriptionde la France, torn. i. p. 220—222.) Yet the Rousillon contains one hundred and eighty-eight thousand ninehundred subjects, and annually pays two million six hundred thousand livres; (Necker, Administration desFinances, torn. i. p. 278,279.) more people, perhaps, and doubtless more money, than the inarch of Charle­magne. (2) Schmidt. Hist, des Allemands, torn. ii. p. 200, Sec. (3) -St« Criannone, torn, i> p. 37*, 375. and the Annals of Muratori.