OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 257 electors appeared to every unprejudiced person ridiculous; butall these restrictions were dangerous, inasmuch as they in­vited every demagogue to carry his ulterior objects by takingup the more or less just demands of the new burgesses and ofthe Italians excluded from the franchise. While accordingly Secondarythe more clear-seeing of the aristocracy could not but find effect of thethese partial and grudging concessions as inadequate as did P°liticalthe new burgesses and the excluded themselves, they further t^011"painfully felt the absence from their ranks of the numerousand excellent men whom the Yarian commission of high-treason had exiled, and whom it was the more difficult torecall because they had been condemned by the verdict notof the people but of the judices; for, while there was littlehesitation as to cancelling a decree of the people even of ajudicial character by means of a second, the cancelling of averdict of jurymen by the people appeared to the better por­tion of the aristocracy as a very dangerous precedent. Thusneither the ultras nor the moderates were content with theissue of the Italian crisis. But still deeper indignation Marius.swelled the heart of the old man, who had gone forth to theItalian war with revived hopes and had come back from itreluctantly, with the consciousness of having rendered newservices and of having received in return new and most severemortifications, with the bitter feeling of being no longerdreaded but despised by his enemies, with that gnawing spiritof vengeance in his heart, which feeds on its own poison. Itwas true of him also, as of the new burgesses and theexcluded; incapable and awkward as he had shown himselfto be, his popular name was still a formidable weapon in thehand of a demagogue. With these elements of political convulsion was combined Decay ofthe rapidly spreading decay of the honourable old soldierly militaryspirit and of military discipline. The seeds, which were discipline.sown by the enrolment of the proletariate in the army,developed themselves with alarming rapidity during the de­moralizing insurrectionary war, which compelled Rome toadmit to the service every man capable of bearing armswithout distinction, and which above all carried politicalpartizanship directly into the headquarters and into thesoldiers' tent. The effects soon appeared in the slackeningof all the ties of the military hierarchy. During the siegeof Pompeii the commander of the Stillan besieging corps, theconsular Aulus Postumius Albinus, was put to death with vol. in, a