OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXIX' and the diligence of Proclus and his disciples. The rea­son and piety of their Roman pupil were fortunately savedfrom the contagion of mystery and magic, which pollutedthe groves of the academy; but he imbibed the spiritand imitated the method, of his dead and living masters,who attempted to reconcile the strong and subtle senseof Aristotle with the devout contemplation and sublimefancy of Plato. After his return to Rome, and his mar­riage with the daughter of his friend, the patrician Sym-machus, Boethius still continued, in a palace of ivory andmarble, to prosecute the same studies/ The church wasedified by his profound defence of the orthodox creedagainst the Arian, the Eutychian, and the Nestorian he­resies; and the Catholic unity was explained or exposedin a formal treatise by the indifference of three distinctthough consubstantial persons. For the benefit of hisLatin readers, his genius submitted to teach the first ele­ments of the arts and sciences of Greece, The geome­try of Euclid, the music of Pythagoras, the arithmetic ofNicomachus, the mechanics of Archimedes, the astro­nomy of Ptolemy, the theology of Plato, and the logicof Aristotle, with the commentary of Porphyry, weretranslated and illustrated by the indefatigable pen of theRoman senator. And he alone was esteemed capable ofdescribing the wonders of art, a sun-dial, a water-clock,or a sphere which represented the motions of the planets.From these abstruse speculations, Boethius stooped, or,to speak more truly, he rose to the social duties of publicand private life; the indigent were relieved by his liber­ality; and his eloquence, which flattery might compareto the voice of Demosthenes or Cicero, was uniformly less too long: bqt the simple Tact of a visit to Athens is justified by mnch internalevidence, (Bruker, Hist. Crit. Philosoph. tom. 3. p. 524—527.) and by an expression{though vagae and amhiguous) of his friend Cassiodorius, (Var. 1. 45.) "longe positasAthenas, introisti." 'Bibliothecae comptos ebore ac vitro parietes, &c. (Consol. Phil. lib. 1. pros. 5.p. 74.) The Epistles of Ennodios (6. 6, 7.13. 8. 1. 31. 37. 40.) and CassiodoriustVar. 1. 39. 4. 6. 9. 21.) afford many proofs of the high reputation which he enjoyedin his own times. It is true that the hishop of Pavia wanted to purchase of him anold house at Milan, and praise might be tendered and aceepted in part of payment.