OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3% The diflike expressed by Diocletian towards Rome and Roman Debasementfreedom, was not the effect of momentary caprice, but the remit 0f the senate,of the most artful policy. That crafty prince had framed a newsystem of imperial government, which was afterwards completedby the family of Constantine, and as the image of the old con­stitution was religioufly preserved in the senate, he resolved todeprive that order of its small remains of power and consideration.We may recollect about eight years before the elevation of Dio­cletian, the transient greatness, and the ambitious hopes, of theRoman senate. As long as that enthusiasm prevailed, many of thenobles imprudently displayed their zeal in the cause of freedom;and after the successors of Probus had withdrawn their countenancefrom the republican party, the senators were unable to disguise theirimpotent resentment. As the sovereign of Italy, Maximian wasintrusted with the care of extinguishing this troublesome, ratherthan dingerous, spirit, and the task was perfectly suited to hiscruel temper. The most illustrious members of the senate, whomDiocletian always affected to esteem, were involved, by his col­league, in the accusation of imaginary plots; and the possession ofan elegant villa, or a well cultivated estate, was interpreted as aconvincing evidence of guilt9}. The camp of the Prætorians,which had so long oppressed, began to protect, the majesty of Rome;and as those haughty troops were conscious of the decline of theirpower, they were naturally disposed to unite their strength with theauthority of the senate. By the prudent measures of Diocletian,the number* of the Praetorians were insensibly reduced, their pri­vileges abolished 9+, and their place supplied by two faithful legions Ncwbedies oof Illyricum, who, under the new titles of Jovians and Herculians, fns, and °'were appointed to perform the service of the imperial guards 9S. IlCrculians*But the most fatal though secret wound, which the senate receivedfrom the hands of Diocletian and Maximian, was inflicted by the in­evitable operation of their long absence. As long as the emperors Vol. I. D d d resided