OCR Output 292 THE PELOPONNEStAN WAR. up their own dead to the number of about three hundred.But a truce for their departure was not openly granted tothem all. Demosthenes, in concert with the Acarnaniangenerals, agreed to a secret article with the Mantineans andMenedaeus and the other Peloponnesian officers, and as manyOthers as were of any consideration—that " they should de­part immediately." His policy was, to have the Ambraciotsand the promiscuous body of mercenaries left quite destitute,wishing above all things for such a pretext to calumniate theLacedaemonians and Peloponnesians amongst the Grecians ofthose parts, " as men who wilfully abandon their friendsj" from a mere selfish treacherous regard to their own safe-" ty." Having leave therefore to fetch off their dead, theyinterred them all so well as their hurry would admit. Andthose in the secret were busy in concerting the means of theirdeparture. But now intelligence is brought to Demosthenes and theAcarnanians, that the Ambraciots of the city with their wholecollected force had, in pursuance of the former summons, be­gan their march for Olpae, through Amphilochi, designing tojoin their countrymen at Olpae, and quite ignorant of the latedefeat. Upcn this he immediately detacheth a part of hisarmy, to beset all the passes, and to seize all the advantageousposts upon their route, and got ready at the same time to marchagainst them with the remainder of his force. In the mean time, the Mantineans, and those compre­hended in the secret article, going out of the town upon thepretext of gathering herbs and fuel, went gradually off insmall parties, gathering what they pretended to come out foras they passed along. But when they had thus straggledto a considerable distance from Olpae, they moved away in amore nimble pace. The Ambraciots and others, who ingreat numbers came out in their company, when they per­ceived them thus stealing off, felt an inclination to follow,and so taking to their heels, ran speedily after them. TheAcarnanians imagined at first, that they vere all equally