OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 171 tions, and intriguing at Etruria, the operations of theRomans in their own territories distressed them se­verely : for Publius Decius, when informed by hisscouts of the departure of the Samnite army, called acouncil, and there said, ' Why do we ramble throughthe country, carrying the war from one village to ano­ther?. Why not attack the cities and fortified places?No army now guards Samnium. They have fled: theyare gone into voluntary exile.' The proposal beinguniversally approved, he marched to attack Murgantia,a city of considerable strength ; and so great was theardor of the soldiers, resulting from their affection totheir commander, and from their hopes of richer trea­sure than could be found in pillaging the countryplaces, that in one day they took it by assault. Here,two thousand one hundred of the Samnites makingresistance, were surrounded and taken prisoners; andabundance of other spoil fell into the hands of the vic­tors. Decius, not choosing that the troops should beincumbered in their march with such heavy baggage,ordered them to be called together, and said to them,' Do you intend to rest satisfied with this single vic­tory, and this booty? or do you choose to cherishhopes proportioned to your bravery 1 All the cities ofthe Samnites and the property left in them are yourown ; since, after so often defeating their legions, youhave finally driven them out of the country. Sell thoseeffects in your hands ; and allure traders by a prospectof profit to follow you on your march. I will fromtime to time supply you with goods for sale. Let usgo hence to the city of Itomulea, where no great labor,but greater gain awaits you.' They accordingly soldoff the spoil; and warmly adopting the general's plan,proceeded to Romulea. This town likewise was takenwithout works or engines, and plundered ; for as soonas the battalions approached it, nothing could hinderthe soldiers from mounting the walls ; but .hastily ap­plying ladders, they forced their way over the fortifi­cations. Two thousand three hundred men were slain,six thousand taken prisoners, and abundance of spoil