OCR Output 66 LIVY. nites on the one hand ; and when, on the other, the dic­tator saw tbeir troops in the van looking behind them,their battalions in confusion, and their line wavering,he earnestly exhorted and animated his men, callingon the tribunes and chief centurions by name to joinhim in renewing the fight. Raising the shout anew,they pressed forward, and as they advanced perceivedthe enemy more and more confused. The cavalry nowcould be seen by those in front, and Cornelius, turningabout to the several companies, made them understand,by raising his voice and hands, that he saw the standardsand bucklers of his own horsemen. On hearing which,and at the same time seeing them, they at once so farforgot the fatigue which they had endured, through al­most the whole day, and even their wounds, that theyrushed to the fray with as much vigor and alacrity asif they were coming fresh out of camp on receivingthe signal for battle. The Samnites could no longersustain the charge of horse and foot together: part ofthem, inclosed on both sides, were cut off; the restseparated and fled different ways. The infantry slewthose who were surrounded and made resistance ; andthe cavalry made great havoc of the fugitives, amongwhom fell their general. This battle crushed at lengththe power of the Samnites so effectually that, in alltheir meetings, they expressed so much discontent, andsaid, ' it was not at all to be wondered at, if in an im­pious war, commenced in violation of a treaty, whenthe gods were, with justice, more incensed against themthan men, none of their undertakings prospered. Theywere not to expect the crime, (for such an infraction oftreaties must be held,) to be expiated and atoned forwithout a heavy penalty. The only alternative theyhad, was whether the penalty should be the guiltyblood of a few, or the innocent blood of all.' Somenow ventured to name the authors of the war, amongwhom was particularly mentioned Brutulus Papius:he was a man of power and noble birth, and undoubt­edly the cause of the late rupture. The pretors beingcompelled to take the opinion of the assembly concern­