OCR Output CHAP. L. 203 that can. neither be dissembled nor eluded, render thismode of reasoning as indiscreet as it is superfluous:the kingdom of Yemen has been successively subduedby the Abyssinians, the Persians, the sultans of Egypt,1and the Turks:" the holy cities of Mecca and Medinahave repeatedly bowed under a.Scythian tyrant; andthe Roman province of Arabia* embraced ,the peculiarwilderness in which Ismacl and his sons must havepitched their tents in the face of their brethren. Yetthese exceptions are temporary or local; the body ofthe nation has escaped the yoke of the most powerfulmonarchies: the arms of Sesostris and Cyrus, of Pom-pey and Trajan, could never achieve the conquest ofArabia; the present sovereign of the Turks'1 may exer­cise a shadow of jurisdiction, but his pride is reduced tosolicit the friendship of a people, whom it is dangerousto provoke and fruitless to attack. The obvious causesof their freedom are inscribed on the character and coun­try of the Arabs* Many ages before Mahomet,0 theirintrepid valour had been severely felt by their neighboursin offensive and defensive war. The patient and active the exceptions of fact, might dispute the meaning of the text, (Genes, xvi. 12.)the extent of the application, and the foundation of the pedigree. * It was subdued, A. D. 1173, by a brother of the great Saladin, who founded adynasty of Curds or Ayoubites. (Guignes, Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 425. D'Her-belot, p. 477.) * By the lieutenant of Soliman, (A. D. 1538.) and Selim II. (1568.) See Cante-mir's Hist, of the Otluunn empire, p. 201. 221. The pasha, who resided at Saana,commanded twenty-one beys, but no revenue was ever remitted to the Porte;(Marsigli, Stato Militare d«IT Imperio Ottomanno, p. 124.) and the Turks wereexpelled about the yeftr 163O. (Niebuhr, p. 167, 168.) * Of the Roman province, under the name of Arabia and the third Palestine, theprincipal cities were Bostra and IVtr:x, which dated their era from the year 105,when they were subdued by Palma, a lieutenant of Trajan. (Dion. Cassius, lib. 68.)Petra was the capital of the Nabathsans, whose name is derived from the eldestofthesonsof Ismael. (tienes.xxv. 12, &c. with the commentaries of Jerome, LnClerc, and Calmet.) Justinian relinquished a palm country of ten days'Journeyto the south of .:i:i:i!i, (Procop. de Bell. Persic, lib. 1. c. 100 and the Romansmaintained a centurion and a custom-house, (Arrian in Periplo Mans Erythriei.p. 11. in Hudson, torn. 1.) at a place (Xiuxu xa/un, Pagus Albus Hawara) in theterritory of Medina. (D'Anville Memoire sur 1'Egypte, p. 243.) These real pos­sessions, and some naval inroads of Trajan, (Peripl. p. 14, 15.) are magnified byli i story and medals into the Roman conquest of Arabia. '• Niebuhr (Description de 1'Arabic, p. 302,303. 329—331.) affords the mostrecent and authentic intelligence of the Turkish empire in Arabia. c Diodonu Siculns (torn. 2. lib. 19. p. 390—393. edit. Wesseling) has clearlyexposed the freedom of the Nabathsan Arabs, who resisted the arms of Antigonusand his son.