OCR Output 318 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV jealous spirit of an aristocracy, which had yielded withreluctance to the just demands of the people. But thesubstance of the twelve tables was adapted to the state ofthe city ; and the Romans had emerged from barbarism,since they were capable of studying and embracing theinstitutions of their more enlightened neighbours. Awise Ephesian was driven by envy from his native coun­try; before he could reach the shores of Latium, he hadobserved the various forms of human nature and civilsociety; he imparted his knowledge to the legislators ofRome, and a statue was erected in the Forum to the per­petual memory of Hermodorus.n The names and divi­sions of the copper-money, the sole coin of the infantstate, were of Dorian origin :° the harvests of Campaniaand Sicily relieved the wants of a people whose agricul­ture was often interrupted by war and faction; and sincethe trade was established/ the deputies, who sailed fromthe Tiber, might return from the same harbours with amore precious cargo of political wisdom. The coloniesof Great Greece had transported and improved the artsof their mother-country. Guma? and Rhegium, Croto-na and Tarentum, Agrigentum and Syracuse, were inthe rank of the most flourishing cities. The disciplesof Pythagoras applied philosophy to the use of govern­ment; the unwritten laws of Charondas accepted theaid of poetry and music,q and Zaleucus framed the re­public of the Locrians, which stood without alterationabove two hundred years/ From a similar motive of na- twelve tables were of brass—areas: in the text of Pomponins we read eboreas ; forwhich Scaliger has substituted roboreas. (Bynkershoek, p. 286.) Wood, brass,and ivory, might be successively employed. "His exile is mentioned by Cicero, (Tusculanc Question. 5. 36.) his statue byPliny. (Hist. Nat. 34.11.) The letter, dream, and prophecy, of Heraclitus, are alikespurious. (Epistulcc Grcec. Divers, p. 337.) ° This intricate subject of the Sicilian and Roman money is ably discussed by Dr.Bentley, (Dissertation on the Epistles of Phalaris, p. 427—479.) whose powers inthis controversy were called forth by honour and resentment. B The Romans, or their allies, sailed as far as the fair promontory of Africa. (Polyb.lib. 3'. p. 177. edit. Casaubon, in folio.) Their voyages to Camae, &o. are noticedLivy and Dionysius. 1 This circumstance would alone prove the antiquity of Charondas, the legislatorof Rhegium and Catana, who, by a strange error of Diodorus Siculus, (tom. 1. lib. 12.p. 485—492.) is celebrated long afterward as the author of the policy of Thurium. '^Zaleucus, whose existence has been rashly attacked, had the merit a»d glory" of