OCR Output 28 GOLD ORNAMENTS. 12. OF THE OTHER USES OF GOLD BY WOMEN. Gold was never used in the sacred rites, except for gilding thehorns of the victims that were offered in sacrifice, and that onlyfor the larger ones. But among the soldiery, the luxury of em­ploying gold increased so much, that we have letters of Brutus,written during the campaign of Pharsalia, in which he complainsgrievously that the tribunes wore gold clasps for their cloaks.But, by Jove! what would you have said, Brutus, had you seenthe gold which the women wear on their feet? And I considerthat individual guilty of a great crime who first brought gold intorepute, by having it made into rings. This also led to the customof men wearing ornaments of gold about their arms, which, as itwas introduced by the Dardans, were called Dardanian; as, forthe same reason, bracelets* are named, one species Celticae, andanother Celtibericae. We may indeed allow women to wear goldon their arms, and on every one of their fingers, on their necks,in their ears, and their curls. Let them have chains crossed overtheir waists, and have ponderous jewels set in gold hanging fromtheir necks, so that they may be conscious of wearing them evenin their sleep; but should we, therefore, permit them to wear iton their feet, as if for the express purpose of creating a third orderamong females, which might correspond to that of knights amongmen, and which would be intermediate between women of rankand those of the lowest class. We should leave ornaments of thiskind for our pages, and employ them to set off the beauty of ourchildren. The men indeed now begin to wear on their fingersthe figure of Harpocrates,5 or of some of the Egyptian deities.There was another unusual restriction when Claudius was Emperor, 4 Viriole and viree;" said to be bracelets containing green stones. 5 Harpocrates is characterized as the god of silence, and represented withhis finger on his lip, according to the description of Ovid; "Quique premitvocem, digitoque silentia suadet;" Met. ix. 691. We have a full accountof him by Montfaucon, vol. ii. part 2. c. 12, 3, accompanied by a number ofengravings, pi. 40, 1. It is observed that many of the figures have a re­lation to the emblems of the sun; and a treatise was written by Cuper, theprincipal object of which is to prove that the figure of Harpocrates is tobe considered as "non silentium tantum digito suadens, verum, solis ima-ginem referens." See also the remark of Winckleman, Cat. des Pierresgravees du Baron Stosch, p. 20. It does not appear why Harpocrates wasselected as an ornament for rings; perhaps he was mentioned by Pliny asthe first name that occurred *o him.