OCR Output 236 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. Rome. The forefathers of the city had based their govern­ment of Italy on an aristocratic classification, and with skilfuladjustment of the degrees of dependence had kept in sub­jection the less privileged communities by means of thosewith better rights, and the burgesses within each commu­nity by means of the municipal aristocracy. It was onlynow, under the incomparably wretched government of theoligarchy, that the solidity and strength with which the states­men of the fourth and fifth centuries had joined together thestones of their structure were thoroughly put to the test;the building, though shaken in various ways, still held outagainst this storm. When we say, however, that the morefavoured towns did not at the first shock abandon Rome,we by no means affirm that they would now, as in the Han-nibalic war, hold out for a length of time and after severedefeats, without wavering in their allegiance to Rome; thatfiery trial had not yet been endured.Impression The first blood was thus shed, and Italy was divided intoas to the two great military camps. It is true, as we have seen, thatinsurrection the insurrection was still very far from being a general risingin ome. Q^ ^g Italian allies; but it had already acquired an extentexceeding perhaps the hopes of the leaders themselves, andthe insurgents might without arrogance think of offering toRejection of the Roman government a fair accommodation. They sentthe propo- envoys to Rome, and bound themselves to lay down theirsals for an arma in return for admission to citizenship; it was in vain.dation™0" ^ne public spirit, which had been so long wanting in Rome,seemed suddenly to have returned, when the question wasone of opposing with stubborn narrow-mindedness a demandof the subjects just in itself and now supported by a con-Commission siderable force. The immediate effect of the Italian insur-of high trea- rection was, just as was the case after the defeats which themiu. policy of the government had suffered in Africa and Gaul (P. 152,185), the commencement of a series of prosecutions,by means of which the judicial aristocracy took vengeance onthose men of the government whom they, rightly or wrongly,looked upon as the primary cause of this mischief. On theproposal of the tribune Quintus Varius, in spite of the resist­ance of the Optimates and in spite of tribunician interference,a special commission of high treason—formed, of course,from the equestrian order which contended for the proposalwith open violence—was appointed for the investigation ofthe conspiracy instigated by Drusus and widely ramified in