OCR Output 1. II. 133 YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431. too dilatory in gathering together the confederate-army, andtoo much attached to the Athenians, because he never de­clared warmly for the war. But after the army was drawntogether, his long stay at the Isthmus, and the slow marcheshe had made from thence, exposed him to calumny, whichwas still heightened by the length of the siege of Oenoe :For, in this interval of delay, the Athenians had without mo­lestation withdrawn all their effects from the country, thoughit was the general opinion, that, had the Peloponnesians ad­vanced with expedition, they might undoubtedly have seizedthem, were it not for these dilatory proceedings of Archi-damus. Under such a weight of resentment did Archida-mus still lie with his army before Oenoe. His remissnesswas said to be owing to his presumption, that the Athenians,if their territory was spared, would make some concessions,and that they dreaded nothing more than to see it destroyed.But after their assault on Oenoe, and the successive mis­carriage of all the methods employed to take it, the Athe­nians still resolutely refraining from the least shew of sub­mission, they broke up the siege and marched into Attica,in the height of summer, when the harvest was ripe, abouteighty days after the Thebans had miscarried in the surprizeof Plataea. They were still commanded by Archidamus sonof Zeuxidamus, king of the Lacedaemonians, and havingformed their camp began their devastations. They first ofall ravaged Eleusis and the plain of Thriasia. Near Rheitithey encountered and put to flight a party of Athenian horse.Then they advanced farther into the country through Ce-cropia, leaving mount iEgaleon on their right, till they cameto Acharnae, the greatest of all those which are called TheBoroughs of Athens. They sat down before it, and havingfortified their camp, continued a long time there, laying allthe adjacent country waste. The design of Archidamus in stopping thus before Achar-nae, keeping there his army ready for battle, and not march­ing down there this first campaign into the plains, is said to Vol. I. 3 H