OCR Output PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 611 ».• the Egyptian maaarchs, and an extensive com-rra> 11 pern to lure been carried on with the porti \Merui4, The next wars in which we find theh,t.' villi the Babyktuansjwoco the account of Berosus, that Nabopalassar,'!»/ mrstd towards the end of the seventh century - i -, held Phoenicia in subjection, and that his sonwaWcfcaawaaawg reduced it when in a state of revolt,sat at regarded as doubtful. At all events, bow-•sr. it appears to have been in alliance with the"ii'iatm at this period; since we find it related king of Egypt, when at war with thatCrpra* and Phoenicia. (Herod.1*1; Died. L 68.) When Nebuchadnezzar as.card toe throne, we find that, after quelling a•wit eff Um Jews and redncing Jerusalem (b. c>7X lie marched into Phoenicia, took Sidon appa-aUJ it assault, with dreadful carnage, and pro-alad to iaveat Tyre. (Etdciel, xxvi.) For an•at of the siege, one of the most memorablo inhistory, we are again indebted to Josephus11 \ who extracted it from Tyrian annals. Itaasi to have lasted thirteen years. Another-»*1 was at this time king of Tyre. The de-tftmm of the siege by Ezekiel would seem toV '■» I'alae-Tyrus, though it is probable thatLaw Tyre was also attempted. (Grote, Uigt. ofmi. f 355, note.) The result of the siege isBerosos, indeed, affirms (op.i. 20) that Nebuchadnezzar sub- * *L Svna and Phoenicia; but there is no evi-a» of aa assault upon Tyre, and the words oftaw (wis 17) stem to imply that tlie siege i ■»hi in ■ fill The same dynasty continued toi ltrmrnal was aorceeded by Baal; and the>vee9t changes in the government indicate iu-■I reweiatan, but not subjection to a foreign■r. Toe kiags wen superseded by judges or - -i. and miter m tew years the royal line ap-■ to tare been restored; but whether by thetaneswe met of the Tynans, or by compulsion oflist* iauas, ia a disputed point. smjwTs description of Tyre at the breaking out>■ LWiylsuan war exhibits it as the head of theaaeaws r**'— Sidon and Aradus are repre-% ss fmmmbmg soldiers and mariners, and thesas af BrbJns a* working in its dockyards,e xxvi. 8.9, I i.) But that war was a severeij tbe puwer uf tiie Tynans, which now began toSs Cypa mm wmm wrested from them by Amasis,«/ Egypt, though a branch of the regal family • r~ stfcasn to have retained the sovereignty ofass far samf generations, (Herod, v. 104; 79. 1, 2, 28.) Herbal us was suc-srutlier Einmus. or Hiram, during. i'jn« conquered Babylon (538 B.C.). I sla> bxrvsr monarch pennitted the Jews tojA liaaiaV m. we find Tyre and Sidon again(f'zra, iii, 7), a proof thataa still in a nourishing state.mmmm (Cyrvpaed. i. 1. § 8) represents Cyrus asI <w«r Pbuexacis as well as Cyprus and Egypt;t»^h tlaa is not confirmed by any collateral. -mrj asosw. at all eventa have very soon sub-si is has son Cambyses. (Herod, iii. 19.) I nia wuh Persia seem, however, to have■1mm of a wluxitary alliance rather than of a| swassztiasi; sinew, though the Phoenicians»-. '.citiiai acpunst the Egyptians, they re-i a* warwe srain^t their colonists the Cartha-sw. Tawar flraC wax of great assistance to the P- Persians, and enabled Darius to make himself masterof the islands off the coast of Asia Minor. (Thucyd.i. 16; Plat, ifenex. c. 9.) Phoenicia, with Palestineand Cyprus, formed the fifth of the twenty nomesinto which the empire of Darius was divided. (Herod,iii. 91.) These nomes were, in fact, satrapies; butit does not appear that they interfered with the con­stitutions of the several countries in which theywere established; at all events native princes con­tinued to reign in Phoenicia. Although Sidon be­came a royal Persian residence, it still had its nativeking, and so also had Tyre. (Herod, viii. 67.)When Darius was meditating his expedition againstGreece, Sidon supplied two triremes and a storeshipto enable Demooedes to explore the coasts, (lb.iii. 136.) Subsequently the Phoenicians providedthe Persians with a fleet wherewith to reduce notonly the revolted Ionian cities, but even their ownformer colony of Cyprus. In the last of these en­terprises they wero defeated by the Ionian fleet(lb. v. 108, 112); but they were the chief means ofreducing the island of Miletus (lb. vi. 6), by thedefeat which they inflicted on the Ionians off Lade,(lb. c. 14.) After the subjugation of the Asiaticislands, the Phoenician fleet proceeded to the Thra-cian Chersonese, where they captured Metiochus,the son of MUtiades (lb. c. 41), and subsequentlyappear to have scoured the Aegean and to haveravaged the coasts of Boeotia. (Ib. c. 118.) Theyassisted Xerxes in his expedition against Greece,and along with the Egyptians constructed the bridgeof bouts across the Hellespont. (Ib. vii. 34.) Theyhelped to make the canal over the isthmus of MountAthos, in which, as well as in other engineeringworks, they displayed a skill much superior to thatof the other nations employed. (Ib. c. 23.) Inthe naval review of Xerxes iu the Hellespont theycarried off the prize from all competitors by theexcellence of their ships and the skill of their mari­ners; whilst among the Phoenicians themselves theSidonians were far the most distinguished (Ib. cc.44, 96), and it was in a vessel belonging to thehitter people that Xerxes embarked to conduct thereview, (lb. c. 100.) The Phoenician ships com­posed nearly half of the fleet which Xerxes had col­lected; yet at the battle of Arteinisiuin tbey do notappear to have played so distinguished a part as theEgyptians. (Ib. viii. 17.) When routed by theAthenians at Salamis they complained to Xerxes,who sat overlooking the battle on his silver-footedthrone, that their ships had been treacherouslysunk by the Ionians. Just at this instant, however,extraordinary skill and valour were displayed by aSamothracian vessel, and the Great King, chargingthe Phoenicians with having falsely accused theIonians in order to screen their own cowardice andill-conduct, caused many of them to be beheaded,(lb. c 90.) At the battle of the Eurymedon (u. c466), the Phoenician fleet was totally defeated bythe Athenians under Cimon, on which occasion 100of their vessels wero captured (Diod. xi. 62), oraccording to Thucydides (i. 100) 200, who, how­ever, is probably alluding to the whole number oftheir fleet- Subsequently the Athenians obtainedsuch naval superiority that we find them carryingon maritime operations on the coast of Phoeniciaitself; though in their unfortunate expedition toEgypt fifty of their triremes were almost entirelydestroyed by the Phoenicians. (Thucyd. i. 109.)This disgrace was wiped out by the AtheniansAnaxicratcs in a great victory gained over B H 2