OCR Output OFTHE ROMAN EMPIRE. greatness of its cities will serve to confirm the former, and to multiplythe latter. It may not be unpleasing to collect a few scattered instancesrelative to that subject, without forgetting, however, that from thevanity of nations arid the poverty of language, the vague appellationof city has been indifferently bestowed on Rome and upon Lau-rentum. Ancient Italy is said to have contained eleven hundred In July,and ninety-seven cities ;J and for whatsoever æra of antiquitythe expression -might be intended '*, there is not any reason tobelieve the country less populous in the age of the Antonines, thanin that of Romulus. The petty states of Latium were containedwithin the metropolis of the empire, by whose superior influencethey had been attracted. Those parts of Italy which have so longlanguished under the lazy tyranny of priests and viceroys, hadbeen afflicted only by the more tolerable calamities of war; andthe first symptoms of decay, which they experienced, were amplycompensated by the rapid improvements of the Cisalpine Gaul.The splendor of Verona may be traced in its remains: yet Veronawas less celebrated than Aquileia or Padua, Milan or Ravenna.II. The spirit of improvement had passed the Alps, and been felt Gaul andeven irt the woods- of Britain. York was the feat of government, Spam'and London was already enriched by commerce. Gaul could boastof her twelve hundred cities 7r; and though, in the northern parts,many of them, without excepting Paris itself, were little morethan the rude and imperfect townships of a rising people; thesouthern provinces imitated the wealth and elegance of Italy 7<s.Many were the cities of Gaul, Marseilles, Aries, Nismes, Nar-bonne, Thoulouse, Bourdeaux, Autun, Vienna, Lyons, Langres,and Treves, whose ancient condition might sustain an equal, andpefhaps advantageous comparison With their present state. Withregard to Spain, tbat- country flourished as a province, and has de­clined as a kingdom. Exhausted by the abuse of her strength,by America, and by superstition, her pride might possibly be con-Vol. I. H founded,