OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 97 their sovereign; but these servile Greeks were unworthyand regardless of freedom; and in his mind, the lessonof an hour was quickly erased by the prejudices of theage and the habits of despotism. He retained only ajealous fear lest the senate or people should one dayinvade thg right of primogeniture, and seat his brotherTheodosius on an equal throne. By the imposition ofholy orders, the grandson of Heraclius was disqualifiedfor the purple; but this ceremony, which seemed toprofane the sacraments of the church, was insufficientto appease the suspicions of the tyrant, and the deathof the deacon Theodosius could alone expiate thecrime of his royal birth. His murder was avenged bythe imprecations of the people, and the assassin, in thefulness of power, was driven from his capital into volun­tary and perpetual exile. Constans embarked for Greece;and, as if he meant to retort the abhorrence which he de­served, he is said, from the imperial galley, to have spitagainst the walls of his native city. After passing thewinter at Athens, he sailed to Tarentum in Italy, visitedRome, and concluded a long pilgrimage of disgrace andsacrilegious rapine, by fixing his residence at Syracuse.But if Constans could fly from his people, he could notfly from himself. The remorse of his conscience createda phantom who pursued him by land and sea, by dayand by night; and the Visionary Theodosius, present­ing to his lips a cup of blood, said, or seemed to say,Drink, brother, drink; a sure emblem of the aggrava­tion of his guilt, since he had received from the handsof the deacon the mystic cup of the blood of Christ.Odious to himself and to mankind, Constans perishedby domestic, perhaps by episcopal, treason, in the capi­tal of Sicily. A servant who waited in the bath, afterpouring warm water on his head, struck him violentlywith the vase. He fell, stunned by the blow, andsuffocated by the water; and his attendants, who won­dered at the tedious delay, beheld with indifference VOL. VI. H