OCR Output STAL IOC ANUS PORTUS. iW./**, separated from the land by a long, narrow,a; which widens near Cetie, where the Mons Setiusk The* laguoes are the E'tangs de Tau, de Fron-fun. At Maguelone, and others. Avicnus (Or.itrk. 58) mentions the Taunts or E'tang de Tau: ■ Taarom paludcm namqne gentiles vocant." : ,1 IriifM; LeDUb]. [G. L.] MALIOCA'NUS PORTUS (i(r)a\ioKcwit Aj­ar), r'tolerny (ii. 8. § 2) places this port between mtam Promontorium [Gobaecm] and the month'the Tetus. on the coast of Gallia Lugdunensis.fiavule (.Yonee, <fc.) found in a manuscript plan i f A Me du Conquet the name of Port Sliocan,I Cap Sl'ihi, at the bottom of the road of Loo-Irut. Lobinrmu in bis History of Brttagne saysM the name means White Tower, and that theren traces of a port there, constructed of brirkat cement. Gosselin places the Staliocanus on the omit of Brttagne, at the outlet of the river on»h Vorlaix stands. It is impossible to dcter-m which of the numerous bays on this irregularaw u Ptolemy'a Staliocanus. [G. L.] tiTA.XACUM, a place in Noricum, on the roadaig along the Danube from Augusta Vindeli-m to Carnuntnm and Vindobona. (/(. Ant. 149; Tab. Pent.) Its exact site is uncertain.«ip. Muehar, Xoriban, i. p. 285.) [L. S.]STATIELLI (SrarieAAoi), a tribe of Ligurianj,s> inhabited the northern slopes of the Apennines, hath aides of the valley of the Bormida. Their■aty is dearly fixed by that of the town of AquaeHeilse, now Acqui, which grew up under thenn Empire from a mere watering place into ar» and populous town, and the chief place of their.img district. The Statielli are mentioned 1->y in B.C. 173, as an independent tribe, whon attacked by the Roman consul, M. Popillius:it defeating them in the field, he attacked andk their city, which Livy calls Carystus, and, notseat with disarming them, sold the captives as>*•. This proceeding was severely arraigned atac by the tribunes, especially on the ground that featsriai had previously been uniformly faithful;m Koman alliance; but they did not succeed in■ong reparation (Liv. xlii. 7, 8, 9, 21). Livyas taw name Statiellates, while Decitnui Brutus,t croased their territory on his march from Mu-l a. c. 44, and addresses one of his letters to■tv from thence, dates it" finibus Statiellensium"<• ad Fam. xi. 11). Pliny, who enumerates• airung the tribes of Ligurians existing in hist, ealla them Statielli, and their chief townus Staliellorutn (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7). The site ofr-ta», mentioned only by Livy, in tbn passageK rrted. ia wholly unknown. [K. H. B.jTATt/KIA (Sravwia: Eth. Statoniensis), ai «f Southern Etruria, which is mentioned byaw among the smaller towns (woKlxftu) in that of Italy. (Strab. v. p. 226.) Pliny also!. 3* the Stat ones among the municipalities oftrie, (5. a. 8), but neither author atfords anytt due to its situation. We learn, however, thatas celebrated for its wine, which was one of the. noted of those grown in Etruria (Plin. xir. 8 J, and that there were valuable stone-quarriesk territory. (Vilruv. ii. 7. § 3.) From thea in which Vitruvius sneaks of these, it seemsarjle that the district of Statonia, which he callsa-ieiiura Statoniensis," adjoined that of Tar­si; and both I'liny and Seneca allude to the STKLLATIS CAMPUS. 1035 existence of ft lake " in agro Statoniensi," in whichthere were floating islands. (Plin. ii. 95. s. 96;Senec N. Q. iii. 25.) This can hardly be any otherthan the small Logo di Afezzano, a few miles W. ofthe more extensive Logo di Bolsena: we must there­fore probably look for Statonia between this andTarquinii. But within this space several sites havebeen indicated as possessing traces of ancient habi­tation; among others, Farncse and Castro, the lastof which is regarded by Cluver as the site of Sta­tonia, and has as plausible a claim as any other.But there ia nothing really to decide the point.(Cln\er, Ital. p. 517; Dennis's Etruria. vol. i. pp.463 468.) [E. H. B.] STATUAS (AD), the name of two placesin Pannonia, one of which was situated on theDanube, a little to the west of Bregetio (It. Ant.p. 246; Notit. Imp.), and the other further south­east, in the neighbourhood of Alisca and Alta Ripa(It Ant. p. 244), which Muchar (.Vorifctiin, i. p.264) identifies with Suhaard. f L. S.] STATUAS (AD), a town in the territory of theContcstani in Uispania Tarraconensis. (/tin. Ant.p. 400.) Variously identified with Adsanrta andXatica or S. Felipe. [T. H. D.] STAVANI (StoookoI, Ptol. iii. 5. § 25). a peoplein European Sarmatia, at the N. foot of Mons Bo-dinus. Ukert (iii. 2. § 435) conjectures that weshould read 2rAaucm>i, that is, Slavi, and seeks thetnon tho />un<iand the Ilmensee. [T. H. D.] STECTO'RIUM (2Terrdpioi': Eth. Jrea-roprH-oj),a town of Phrvgia, between Peltae and Svnnaria.(Ptol. v. 2. § 25; Pans x. 27. § 1.) Kicpert (inFranz's Fimf Inschriften, p. 36) identifies it withthe modern Afijum Karahissar. (Comp. Sestini,A'um. let. p. 126.) [L. S.] STEl'RIA. [Attica, p. 332, a.] STELAE (2tt}Aoi, Steph. B. s. ».), a Cretan citywhich is descrilied by the Byzantine geographer asbeing near two towns, which are called, in the pub­lished editions of his work, Paraesus and Rhi-thyinna. In Mr. Pashley's map the site is fixedat the Mohammedan village of Philippo on theronte from KasttUand (Inatus) to Haghias Dheka(Gortyna). [E. B. J.] STELLA'TIS CAMPUS was the mime given toa port of the rich plain of Campinia. the limits ofwhich cannot be clearly determined, but whichappears to have adjoined the "Falernus ager." andto have been situated likewise to the N. of theVulturnus. Livy mentions it more than once duringthe wars of the Romans with the Samnites (ix. 44,x. 31), and again during the Second Punic War,when Hannibal found himself there by an error ofhis guides (Liv. xxii. 13). From his expressions itwould appear to have adjoined the 44 Calenus ager,"and apparently was the part of the plain lying betweenCales and the Vulturnus. It was a part of thopublic lands of the Roman people, which the tribuneRullus proposed by his agrarian law to parcel outamong the pooret citizens (Cic. de Leg. Agr. i. 7. ii.31): this was for the time successfully opposed byCicero, but the measure was carried into effect a fewyears later by the agrarian law of Caesar, passed inhis consulship, B. c. 59 (Suet. Cats. 20). Thestatement of Suetonius that the district thus namedwas previously regarded by tho Romans as conse­crated, is clearly negatived by the language of Ciceroin the passages just referred to. The name of Stel-latinus Ager seems to have been given to a districtin quite another part of Italy, forming a part of the