OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 17 to their charge by Tiberius. In the course of theirdebate, Quintus Haterius and Mamercus Scaurus hadthe misfortune to alarm that gloomy and suspicioustemper: the first, by asking. "How long is it your" pleasure, Csesar, that the commonwealth shall want"ahead to direct it?" Scaurus, by saying, "Since" the prince has not interposed the tribunitian au-" thority to prevent the report of the consuls, there is" room to hope that he will yield to the entreaties of" the senate." Tiberius took fire at what was saidby Haterius, and broke out with sudden vehemence :to Scaurus he made no reply; resentment had takenroot in his heart, and for that reason was smotheredin silence. Fatigued at length by the clamours of the senate,and the solicitation of individuals, ho gave way bydegrees: not expressly declaring his consent; but, ashe said, to end the mutual trouble of repeated refusalsand unwearied importunity. It may be related as a\ fact, that Haterius, on the following day, attendingat the palace, to mitigate resentment by an apology,narrowly escaped being put to death by the guards.In a suppliant posture he clasped the emperor's knees;and in that moment Tiberius, entangled perhaps bythe petitioner, or making a false step, fell to theground. This provoked the soldiers upon duty.Haterius was saved from their fury: but the dangerthat threatened a man of his illustrious character,made no impression on the prince; nor did he relenttill Livia exerted all her power and influence. Tibe足rius yielded at length to the solicitations of his mo足ther. XIV. The senate,.at their next meeting, began tooffer the incense of adulation to Livia. It was pro足posed to confer upon her the title of Parent; thatname was thought too general; the more distinctiveappellation of Mother of her Country was movedas an amendment. It was further proposed, with thegeneral concurrence, that to the name of the Emperorshould be added, The Son of Julia. Tiberius op足posed these several motions; honours, he said, oughtnot to be lavished on women; in what regarded hisB2