OCR Output <58 ROMAN EMPIRE. gifts and Syriac missionaries could be obtained frontthe patriarch of Babylon. Since the expulsion of thePortuguese, the Nestorian creed is freely professed onthe coast of Malabar. The trading companies of Hol­land and England are the friends of toleration; but ifoppression be less mortifying than contempt, the Chris­tians of St. Thomas hare reason to complain of the coldand silent indifference of their brethren of Europe.1n.TuE II. The history of the Monophysites is lessJACoBITES. copioas and interesting than that of the Nesto^rians. Under the reigns of Zeno and Anastasius, theirartful leaders surprised the ear of the prince, usurpedthe tbtones of the east, and crushed on its native soilthe school of the Syrians. The rule of the Monophysitefaith was defined with exquisite discretion by Severus,patriarch of Antioch: he condemned, in the style of theHenoticon, the adverse heresies of Nestorius and Eu-tyehes, maintained against the latter the reality of thebody of Christ, and constrained the Greeks to allow thathe was a liar who spoke truth.1* But the approximationof ideas could rwxt abate the vehemence of passion; eachparty was the more astonished that their blind antago­nist could dispute on so trifling a difference; the tyrantof Syria enforced the belief of his creed, and his reign*was polluted with the blood of three hundred and fiftymonks, who were slain, not perhaps without provocationA. 0. MB. or resistance, under the walls of Apamea.1 The • * Concerning theChristians of St. Thomas, see Assenmnnus, Bibtioth. Orient, torn.4. p. 391—407. 435—4M. Geddes's Church History of Malabar, and, above all,ta Croze, Histoire du Christianisme des Indes, in two vols. 1 2mo. La Hnyp, 1758,.a learned and agreeable work. They have drawn from the same source, the Por­tuguese and Italian narratives; and the prejudices of the Jesuits are sufficientlycorrected by those of the Protestants. k Our uffifv 4'tv&t XnSnf is the expression of Theodore in his treatise on the incar­nation, p. 245. a-17. as he is quoted by La Croze, (Hist, du Christianisme d'Ethiopeet d'Armenie, p. 35.) who exclaims perhaps too hastily, " Quel pitoyable raissone-meat!" Renatidothaa touched' (Hisf. Patriarch. Alex. p. 127—l38.)the orientalaccount of Several: and h is authentic creed in ay be found in the epistle of John the1Jacobite, patriarch of Antioch, in the tenth century, to his brother Alcanas of Alex­andria. (Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 132—141.) 'Epist- Archimandritarum et Monachorum Syria Secundze ad Papam Hormis-tlmn, Coneil. torn. 5, p. 598—603. The courage of St. Si'iius, ut leo animuMis, defensive. Qi3aronius, A. D. 513. no. 7^ occ.)