OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 349 the life and property of the burgesses, to deal at his pleasurewith the state-domains, to alter at discretion the boundariesof Rome, of Italy, and of the state, to dissolve or establishcivic communities in Italy, to dispose of the provinces anddependent states, to confer the supreme imperium insteadof the people and to nominate proconsuls and propraetors,and lastly to regulate the state for the future by means ofnew laws; that it should be left to his own judgment todetermine when he had fulfilled his task and might deem i*time to resign this extraordinary magistracy; and, in fine,that during its continuance it should depend on his pleasurewhether the ordinary supreme magistracy should subsistside by side with his own, or should remain in abeyance.As a matter of course, it was adopted without opposition(Nov. 672); and now the new master of the state, who s2-hitherto had as proconsul avoided entering the capital, ap­peared for the first time within the walls of Rome. Thisnew office derived its name from the dictatorship, which hadbeen practically abolished since the Hannibalic war (ii. 356);but, as besides his armed retinue he was preceded by twiceas many lictors as the dictator of earlier times,* this new"dictatorship for the making of laws and the regulation ofthe commonwealth " as its official title ran was in fact alto­gether different from the earlier magistracy, which had beenlimited in point of duration and powers, had not excludedappeal.to the burgesses, and had not annulled the ordinarymagistracy. It much more resembled that of the decemvirilegibus scribundis, who likewise came forward as an extra­ordinary government with unlimited fulness of powers * As according to reliable tradition the king himself was only attended bytwelve lictors (Cic. de Hep. ii. 17, 31; Liv. i. 8, et al.; Appian, B. C. i. 100differs) and the consuls were originally only accompanied by twelve lictorsattached to them alternately month by month, the dictatorship cannot havehad originally more lictors than twelve; and with this agrees the statement ofLivy (£t«. 98) that no dictator before Sulla had 24 lictors. As to the con­trary assertion of 1'olybius (iii. 87) we must remember that he is speaking ofa magistracy which iu his tune had been for generations in abeyauce, and that,as in his day the two consuls already appjM ^Mil!1neously with twelvelictors each, it was a natural theory that; ^h should belong to the dictator. The circumstance that Dionys:H Hand Plutarch (Fab. 4) in their embellishing narratives transfer thwB wrs of the dictator to theolder period, is probably in like manner the result of inference from thistheory. There is nothing to hinder us from supposing that it was first practi­cally carried out by Sulla, and thus abiding by the certainly not groundlessstatement of Livy.