OCR Output 272 , THE HISTORY BOOK practice of intrufting the confular power and title to^III'_, two perfons. The decemvirs created were, AppiusY.R. so?. Claudius, Tims Genucius, Publius Seftius, LuciusB.C.449. Veturius, Cains Julius, Aulus Manlius, Servius Sul-picius, Publius Curiatius, Titus Romilius, and Spu-rius Poftumius. Claudius and Genucius, being con-fuls elect for that year, this honour was conferred onthem as a compeniation for the other; and on Seftius,one of the confuls of the former year, becaufe hehad propofed this bufinefs to the iirnate, againft thewill of his colleague. Next to thefe, were confi-d.cred the three who had gone ambafladors to Athens,that the honour might fcrve as a recompence for fucha diflant embafly/ and, at the fame time, it was fup-pofed, that they, having acquired a knowledge of thelaws of foreign countries, would be ufeful in digeft-ing the new propofed regulations. The others filledup the number. It is faid, that in choofing thefe laft,they pitched upon perfons far advanced in years,with intent, that there mould be the lefs warmth inany oppofition which they might give to the deter­minations of the others. The direction of the wholebufinefs of government was lodged in the hands ofAppius Claudius, through the favour of the com­mons; for he had alTumed a demeanor fo entirelynew, that from a harm and fevere profccutor of thecommons, he became, on a fudden, a zealous pro­moter of their interefts, and an eager candidate for >popular applaufe. Each of them adminiftered jufticeto the people one day in ten; on that day, thetwelve fafces attended the one who prefided in thecourt of juftice j his. nine colleagues were attendedeach by one beadle; and, while perfect harmony fub-fifted amongthemfelves,althoughfuch union betweengovernors is fometimes found prejudicial to the go­verned, they obferved the ftricteft equity towardsothers. It will be fufficient to produce a fingle fpe-cimen of their conduct, as a proof of their mode­ration; though, by the terms of their appointment, there