OCR Output 134 ROMAN EMPIRE. munity. The rumour of this domestic revolution ex­cited a tumult in the city; but Porphyrogenitus alone,the true and lawful emperor, was the object of the pub­lic care; and the sons of Lecapenus were taught, bytardy experience, that they had achieved a guilty andperilous enterprise for the benefit of their rival. Theirsister Helena, the wife of Constantine, revealed, or sup­posed, their treacherous design of assassinating her hus­band at the royal banquet. His royal adherents werealarmed; and the two usurpers were prevented, seized,degraded from the purple, and embarked for the sameisland and monastery where their father had been solately confined. Old Romanus met them on the beachwith a sarcastic smile, and, after a just reproach of theirfolly and ingratitude, presented his imperial colleagueswith an equal share of his water and vegetable diet.In the fortieth year of his reign, Constantine VII. ob­tained the possession of the eastern world, which heruled, or seemed to rule, near fifteen years. But hewas devoid of that energy of character which couldemerge into a life of action and glory: and the studieswhich had amused and dignified his leisure, were in­compatible with the serious duties of a sovereign. Theemperor neglected the practice, to instruct his son Ro­manus in the theory, of government; while he indulgedthe habits of intemperance and sloth, he dropped thereins of the administration into the hands of Helenahis wife; and, in the shifting scene of her favour andcaprice, each minister was regretted in the promotionof a more worthless successor. Yet the birth and mis­fortunes of Constantine had endeared him to the Greeks:they excused his failings; they respected his learning,his innocence, and charity, his love of justice; and theceremony of his funeral was mourned with the unfeign­ed tears of his subjects. The body, according to an­cient custom, lay in state in the vestibule of the palace;and the civil and military officers, the patricians, the