OCR Output An. 916.] 309 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. his son Jehoshaphat* succeeded him in thegovernment . He was born of Asa's wifeAzubah. And all men allowed that he fol­lowed the works of David his forefather, andthis both in courage and piety. But we arenot obliged now to speak any more of theaffairs of this king. CHAP. XIII. OF THE IMPIETY OF AHAB KING OF ISRAEL; THE ACTIONS OFTHE PROPHET ELIJAH; AND THE MURDER OF NABOTH. AHAB, the king of Israel, dwelt in Sa­maria, and held the government fortwenty-two years; and made no alteration inthe conduct of the kings that were his pre­decessors, but only in such things as were ofhis own invention for the worse, and in hismost gross wickedness. He imitated them intheir wicked courses, and in their injuriousbehaviour towards God; and most especiallyhe imitated the transgression of Jeroboam.For he worshipped the heifers that he had Egyptians the usage of burning many spices at their funerals, as we find they did at the funeral of Zedekiah king ofJudah, Jer. xxxiv. 5. but notwithstanding this, some veryable commentators are of opinion, that all these spices andperfumes were burnt along with Asa's body; and theyremark, that among his other offences, the sacred historytakes no notice of this vanity of his, in ordering his bodyto be disposed of according to the manner of the Gentiles,and not of his own people. Though therefore they sup­pose that Asa was the first who introduced this custom;yet, in after ages, it became very frequent, and wasthought the more honourable ceremony of the two,2 Chron. xxi. 19. Ibid. xvi. 14. Amos vi. 10. Patrick'sand CalmeCs Commentaries on 2 Chron. xvi. 14. B.* An. 916.\ About an. 910. J Thesbe was a town on the other side of Jordan, inthe tribe of Gad, and in the land of Gilead, where thisprophet was born, or at least inhabited for some time.Since the Scripture makes no mention either of the qualityof bis parents, the manner of his education, or his call tothe prophetic office, some Jewish doctors have been ofopinion that he was an angel sent from heaven, in themidst of the general corruption of the world, to preservethe true worship of God. Others pretend, that he was apriest descended from the tribe of Aaron; that his father'sname was Sabaca, and his birth altogether miraculous:whilst others again will needs have it, that he was Phineas,the son of Aaron, who, after having lived a long whileconcealed, appeared again in the world under the name ofElijah. But where the Scripture is silent, all particularsof this kind are of small authority. This, however, maybe said with safety of him, that he was one of the chief,if not the prince of the prophets of his age; a man of greatand elevated soul, of a generous and undaunted spirit, azealous defender of the cause of God, and a just avengerof the violation of his honour. Calmefs Commentary. B. made; and he contrived other absurd objectsof worship. He also married Jezebel, thedaughter of Ethbaal, king of the Tynans andSidonians; of whom he learnt to worship herown gods. This woman was active and bold;and fell into so great a degree of impurityand madness, that she built a temple to thegod of the Tyrians, which they call Belus,and planted a grove of all sorts of trees; shealso appointed priests and false prophets tothis god. The king also himself had manysuch about him; and so exceeded in madnessand wickedness all the kings that went be­fore him. Now there was a prophett of God, ofThesbon,J a country in Gilead, that came toAhab, and said to him, that God foretold, hewould not send rain nor dew in those yearsupon the country,|| but when he should ap­pear^ And when he had confirmed this byan oath, he departed into the southern parts,and made his abode by a brook, out of whichhe had water to drink; as for his food, ravens II St. James's words are these:—Elias was a man sub­ject to the like passions as we are; and he prayed earnestly,that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth for thespace of three years and six months. Our blessed Saviourmakes mention of the like compass of time, Luke iv. 25.and yet neither of these are contradictory to what thesacred history tells us, viz. That the word of the Lordcame to Elijah in the third year, 1 Kings xviii. 1. Forwe must remember, that as Egypt had usually no rain, butwas watered by the river Nile; so the land of Canaan hadgenerally none, except twice a year, which they calledthe early and latter rain. The former of these was in themonth Nisan, which answers to our March; and the otherin the month Marheshvan, which answers to our October.Now, at the beginning of the drought, Ahab might veryprobably impute the want of rain to natural causes; butwhen, after six months, neither the former nor the latterrain fell in their season, he then began to be enraged atElijah, as the cause of the national judgment, and forcedhim, at God's, command, to save his life by flight; andfrom that time the three years in the historian are to becomputed, though from the first notice which Elijah gaveAhab of this approaching calamity, to the expiration of it,were certainly three years and a half. This calamity issaid to have been procured by Elijah's prayers: but wemust not therefore imagine that his prayers were spitefuland malicious, but necessary rather, and charitable to theoffenders; that by the sharp and long affliction which theyproduced, God's honour, and the truth of his word andthreatonings (which was now universally contemned)might be vindicated; and that the Israelites (whose pre­sent impunity hardened them in their idolatry) mighthereby be awakened to see their wickedness, their de­pendence upon God, and the necessity of their returningto his religion and worship. Bedford's Scripture Chro­nology, lib. vi. c. 2. and Pool's Annotations. B. § 1 Kings xvii. 1. 312