OCR Output AN. 14»3.] 119 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. stroyed.* So Moses passed over the riverJabbok, and over-ran the kingdom of Og.He overthrew their cities, and slew all theirinhabitants; who exceeded in riches all themen in that part of the continent, on accountof the goodness of the soil, and the greatquantity of his wealth. Now Og had veryfew equals, either in the largeness of his body,or the beauty of his appearance. He wasalso a man of great activity; so that his ac­tions were not unequal to the vast largeness,and handsome appearance of his body. Andmen could easily guess at his strength andmagnitude, when they took his bed at Rab-bath, the royal city of the Ammonites. Itsstructure was of iron; its breadth four cubits,and its length a cubit more than doublethereto. However, his fall did not only im­prove the circumstances of the Hebrews forthe present; but by his death he was the oc­casion of further good success to them; forthey presently took those sixty cities whichwere encompassed with excellent walls, andhad been subject to him; and all the peoplegot, both in general and particular, a greatprey. CHAP. VI. op Balaam's attempt to curse Israel, and of the ARr TIFICE BY WHICH THE HEBREWS WERE WEAKENED. WHEN Moses had brought his army toJordan, he pitched his camp in thegreat plain over against Jericho.f This citywas a very happy situation, and very fit forproducing palm-trees and balsam. And nowthe Israelites began to be very proud of them­selves, and were very eager for fighting. Mo­ses then, after he had offered for a few days * See Numb. xxi. 35. Deut. iii. 3. Josh. xii. 4. Ps.exxxv. 11, 12. and Philo. p. 643. t Numb. xxii. 1. J What Josephus here remarks is worthy our remark,viz. that the Israelites were never to meddle with theMoabites, Ammonites, or any other people, but those be­longing to the land of Canaan, and the countries of Sihonand Og beyond Jordan, as far as the desert and Euphrates;and that, therefore, no other people had reason to fear theconquests of the Israelites; but that those countries giventhem by God were their proper and peculiar portionamong the nations, and that all who endeavoured to pos­sess them might ever be justly destroyed by them. H Numb. xxii. 6. An opinion prevailed both in thosedays, and in after ages, that some men had a power, bythe help of their gods, to devote not only particular per- voL. I.—No. 10. sacrifice of thanksgiving to God, and feastedthe people, sent a party of armed men to laywaste the country of the Midianites, and totake their cities. Now the occasion whichhe took for making war upon them was asfollows: When Balak, the king of the Moabites,who had from his ancestors a friendship andleague with the Midianites, saw how greatlythe Israelites were increased, he was muchaffrighted on account of his own and his king­dom's danger. For he was notJ acquaintedwith this; that the Hebrews would not med­dle with any other country: but were to becontented with the possession of the land ofCanaan, God having forbidden them to goany farther. So he, with more haste thanwisdom, resolved to make an attempt uponthem by words; but he did not judge it pru­dent to fight against them, after they had hadthe prosperous successes, and even becameout of ill successes more happy than before;but he thought to hinder them, if he could,from growing greater; and so he resolved tosend ambassadors to the Midianites aboutthem. Now these Midianites, knowing therewas one Balaam, who lived by Euphrates, andwas the greatest of the prophets at that time,and one that was in friendship with them,sent some of their honourable princes alongwith the ambassadors of Balak, to intreat theprophet to come to them; that he might im­precate curses to the destruction of the Is­raelites.! So Balaam received the ambassa­dors, and treated them very kindly. Andwhen he had supped, he inquired what wasGod's will, and what this matter was for whichthe Midianites intreated him to come to them:but when God opposed his going, he came to sons, but whole armies, to destruction. This they aresaid to have done sometimes by words of imprecation, ofwhich there was a set form among some people, whichJZschines calls Siap^opevrpi apav, the determinate curse.Sometimes they also offered sacrifices, and used certainrites and ceremonies, with solemn charms. A famous in­stance of this we find in the life of Crassus, where Plu­tarch tells us, that Atticus, tribune of the people, made afire at the gate out of which Crassus was to march to thewar against the Parthians, into which he threw certainthings to make a fume, and offered sacrifices to the mostangry gods, with horrid imprecations upon him; these, hesays, according to ancient tradition, had such a power, thatno man who was loaded with them could avoid being un­done. 8. Hb