OCR Output Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 271 . Petra. However, he laid waste the country about the Pella,though even there he was under great hardship ; for his armywas afflicted with famine. In order to supply which want,Hyrcanus afforded him some assistance, and sent him provisionsby the means of Antipater; whom also Scaurus sent to Aretas,as one well acquainted with him, to induce him to pay him mo­ney to buy his peace. The king of Arabia * complied withthe proposal, and gave him three hundred talents ; upon whichScaurus drew his army out of Arabia. 2. But as for Alexander, that son of Aristobulus who ran a-way from Pompey, in some time he got a considerable band ofmen together, and lay heavy upon Hyrcanus, and over-ran Judea,and was likely to overturn him quickly ; and indeed he hadcome to Jerusalem, and had ventured to rebuild its wall thatwas thrown down by Pompey, had not Gabinius, who was sentas successor to Scaurus into Syria, shewed his bravery, as inmany other points, so in making an expedition against Alexan­der ; who, as he was afraid that he would attack him, so he gottogether a large army, composed of ten thousand armed foot­men, and fifteen hundred horsemen. He also built walls aboutproper places, Alexandrium, and Hyrcanium, and Macherus,that lay upon the mountains of Arabia. 3. However, Gabinius sent before him Marcus Antonius, andfollowed himself with his whole army ; but for the select bodyof'soldiers that were about Antipater, and another body of Jewsunder the command of Malithus and Pitholaus, these joinedthemselves to those captains that were about Marcus Antonius,and met Alexander ; to which body came Gabinius, with hismain army soon afterward ; and as Alexander was not able tosustain the charge of the enemies forces, now they were joined,he retired. But when he was come near to Jerusalem, he was.forced to fight, and lost six thousand men in the battle ; threethousand of which fell down dead, and three thousand were taken,alive ; so he fled with the remainder to Alexandrium. 4. Now, when Gabinius was come to Alexandrium, becausehe found a great many there encamped, he tried, by promisingthem pardon for their former offences, to induce them to comeover to him, before it came to a fight; but when they wouldhearken to no terms of accommodation, he slew a great number of them, * Take the like attestation to the truth of this submission of Aretas king ofArabia, to Scaurus the Roman general, in the words of Dean Aldnch. " Hence" (says he) is derived that old and famous Denarius belonging tothg Emilian fa-" mily [represented in Havercamp's edition], wherein Aietas appears in a pos." tare of supplication, and taking hold of a camel's bridle with his left hand, and" with his right hand presenting a branch of the frankincense tree, with this m," scription, M. SCAURUS EX t>. C. and beneath, REX ARETAS."