OCR Output 288 THE DECLINE AND FALL XIX. chap. the river. The small vessels which had been saved_from the conflagration of the fleet performed themost essential service. They first conveyed the em­peror and his favourites; and afterwards transported,in many successive voyages, a great part of thearmy. But, as every man was anxious for his per­sonal safety, and apprehensive of being left on thehostile shore, the soldiers, who were too impatientto wait the slow returns of the boats, boldly venturedthemselves on light hurdles, or inflated skins; and,drawing after them their horses, attempted, withvarious success, to swim across the river. Many ofthese daring adventurers were swallowed by thewaves; many others, who were carried along by theviolence of the stream, fell an easy prey to the ava­rice, or cruelty, of the wild Arabs: and the losswhich the army sustained in the passage of the Ti­gris was not inferior to the carnage of a day of bat­tle. As soon as the Romans had landed on thewestern bank, they were delivered from the hostilepursuit of the Barbarians; but, in a laborious marchof two hundred miles over the plains of Mesopo­tamia, they endured the last extremities of thirstand hunger. They were obliged to traverse a sandydesert, which, in the extent of seventy miles, didnot afford a single blade of sweet grass, nor a singlespring of fresh water; and the rest of the inhospita­ble waste was untrod by the footsteps either of friendsor enemies. Whenever a small measure of flourcould be discovered in the camp, twenty poundsweight were greedily purchased with ten pieces ofgold *: the beasts of burden were slaughtered and * We may recollect some lines of Lucan (Pharsal. iv. 95.), who describes asimilar distress of Caisar's army in Spain:Sffiva fames aderat——Miles eget: toto censu non prodigus emitExiguam Cererem. Proh lucri pallida tabes!Non deest prolato jejunus venditor auro.See Guichardt (Nouveaux Memoires Militaires, torn. i. p. 379—382.). HisAnalysis of the two Campaigns in Spain and Africa is the noblest monument thathas ever been raised to the fame of CsBsar.