OCR Output 280 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. twenty cubits every way, to be the most se­cret chamber; but he appointed that of fiftycubits to be the sanctuary.* And when hehad cut a door place out of the wall, he puttherein doors of cedar, and overlaid themwith a great deal of gold, that had sculpturesupon it. He also had veils of blue, andpurple, and scarlet, and the brightest andsoftest linen, with the most curious flowerswrought upon them, which were to be drawnbefore those doors. He dedicated for themost secret place, whose breadth was twentycubits, and its length the same; two cheru-bims of solid gold;t the height of each ofthem was five cubits; they had each of themtwo wings stretched out as far as five cubits;wherefore Solomon set them up not far fromeach other; that with one wing they mighttouch the southern wall of the secret place,and with another the northern; their otherwings, which joined to each other, were acovering to the ark; which was set betweenthem. But nobody can tell, or even conjec­ture what was the shape of the cherubims.He also laid the floor of the temple withplates of gold. And he added doors to thegate of the temple agreeable to the measureof the height of the wall, but in breadthtwenty cubits; and on them fixed gold plates.And, in a word, he left no part of the temple,neither internal nor external, but what was covered with gold. He also had curtainsdrawn over these doors; in like manner asthey were drawn over the inner doors of themost holy place. But the porch of the templehad nothing of that sort. Now Solomon sent for an artificer out ofTyre, whose name was Hiram. He was bybirth of the tribe of Naphthali, on the mother'sside; but his father was JUr, of the stock ofthe Israelites. This man was skilful in allsorts of work; but his chief skill lay in work­ing of gold and silver, and brass; by whomwere made all the mechanical works aboutthe temple, according to the will of Solomon.Moreover, this Hiram made ||two hollow pil­lars; whose outsides were of brass, and thethickness of the brass was four fingers'breadth; and the height of the pillars waseighteen cubits, and their circumferencetwelve cubits. But there was cast with eachof their chapiters lily-work that stood uponthe pillar, and it was elevated five cubits;round about which there was net-work inter­woven with small palms, made of brass, andcovered with lily-work. To this also werehung two hundred pomegranates, in tworows; the one of these pillars he set at theentrance of the porch on the right hand, andcalled it Jachin, and the other at the lefthand, and called it Booz. Solomon also cast a brazen sea,§ whose departed not from the temple, Luke i. 37. (i. e. lived inthat part of the court of the Israelites which was appropri­ated to religious women,) the Greek word is 'ispov. Andthis observation holds good all through the New Testa­ment. La my, De Tabern. lib. v. c. 5. B. * This temple itself, strictly so called, had two stories.The upper of which was raised quite above these littlehouses, and their roofs; for their roofs reached no higherthan the top of the first story. The second story, whichhad no building adjoining to its side, made a large roomover the sanctuary, and the holy of holies, of equal dimen­sions with them; and it is no improbable opinion, that thiswas the upper chamber, in which the Holy Ghost waspleased to descend upon the Apostles in a visible manner.This under room was appropriated to the pious laity as aplace for them to come and pay their devotions in; andtherefore it seems very likely, that the Apostles were herewith other devout persons, while the temple was full ofJews of all nations, who were come to celebrate the feastof the Pentecost, and that thereupon they below, hearingthe noise, which was occasioned by the shaking of theplace, ran up to see the cause of it, and, to their greatsurprise, found the Apostles distinguished from the otherJews about them, both by the cloven tongues which satupon each of them, and by the several different languagesthat they spake. Lamy's Introduction, lib. i. c. 4. B. t Josephus says here that the cherubims were of solidgold; and only of five cubits high; while our Hebrewcopies 1 Kings vi. 23, 28. say they were of the olive-tree,and the Septuagint of the cypress-tree; and only overlaidwith gold; and both agree they were ten cubits high. Isuppose the number is here falsely transcribed, and thatJosephus wrote ten cubits also. | Josephus, in almost all his present copies, has Ovputinstead of TupiK; i. e. Ur, instead of a Tyrian in our othercopies: 1 Kings vii. 14. 2 Chron. ii. 14. which words inthe Greek are so alike, that it is not improbable Josephusalso wrote Tvpa; and that he here agreed with the othercopies. II As for these two famous pillars, Jachin and Booz,their height could be no more than 18 cubits; as hereand 1 Kings vii. 15. 2 Kings xxv. 17. Jer. lii. 21. Those35 cubits in 2 Chron. iii. 15. being contrary to all rulesof architecture. It is supposed that a circumference of12 cubits, or a diameter of" almost 4 cubits, is also notagreeable to the rules of architecture. But the contraryis shewn from Vitruvius; and this proportion of 6 to 1,which is that of the pillars, including the chapiter, was theoldest and strongest of all proportions in architecture.See the description of the temples, chap. xiii. § It is not to be doubted, but that Solomon made all theutensils and ornaments of the temple proportionable, both '