OCR Output LIVY. of fixed and settled principles, deduced from the prac­tice of the kings; and afterwards, of the expellers ofthose kings, the Junii and Valerii ; with all the im­provements made in it by the Fabii, the Quintii, theComelii, and particularly Furius Camillus, who wasan old man in the earlier years of those with whomAlexander must have fought. Manlius Torquatusmight, perhaps, have yielded to Alexander had hemet him in the field ; and so might Valerius Corvus ;men who were distinguished soldiers, before they be­came commanders. The same too might have beenthe case with the Decii, who, after devoting their per­sons, rushed on the enemy; or of Papirius Cursor,though possessed of such powers, both of body andmind. The counsels of one youth, it is possible, mighthave baffled the wisdom of a whole senate, composedof such members, that he alone, who said it was anassembly of kings, conceived a just idea of it. Butthen there was little probability that he should, withmore judgment than any one of those whom I havenamed, choose ground for an encampment, providesupplies, guard against stratagems, distinguish theseason for fighting, form his line of battle. or strengthenit properly with reserves. He would have owned thathe was not dealing with Darius, who drew after him atrain of women and eunuchs; saw nothing about himbut gold and purple; was incumbered with the bur­densome trappings of his state, and should be calledhis prey, rather than his antagonist; whom thereforehe vanquished without loss of blood, and had no othermerit, on the occasion, than that of showing a properspirit in despising empty show. Italy would have ap­peared to him a country of a quite different naturefrom Asia, which he traversed in the guise of a re­veller at the head of a crew of drunkards, if he badseen the forests of Apulia and the mountains of Luca-nia, with the vestiges of the disasters of his house, andwhere his uncle Alexander, king of Epirus, had beenlately cut off. 18. I am here speaking of Alexander, not yet intoxi­