OCR Output 358 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. colonies even after their establishment, and these coloniesformed, as it were, the standing army of the senate.The Corne- Akin to this practical institution of a standing army forlian freed- the senate was the measure by which the regent selectedmen in from the slaves of the proscribed upwards of 10,000 of the'"'le' youngest and most vigorous men, and manumitted them ina body. These new Cornelians, whose civil existence waslinked to the legal validity of the institutions of theirpatron, were designed to be a sort of body-guard for theoligarchy and to help it to command the city populace, onwhich, indeed, in the absence of a garrison everything in thecapital primarily depended.Abolition of These extraordinary pillars of support on which thethe Giac- regent made the oligarchy primarily to rest, weak andchan insti- ephemeral as they probably appeared to their author, wereyet its only possible supports, unless expedients were to beresorted to—such as the formal institution of a standingarmy in Rome and other similar measures—which would haveput an end to the oligarchy far sooner than the attacks ofdemagogues. The permanent foundation of the ordinarygoverning power of the oligarchy was naturally and neces­sarily the senate, with a power so increased and so concen­trated that it presented a superiority to its non-organizedopponents at every single point of attack. The system ofcompromises followed for forty years was at an end. TheGracchan constitution, still spared in the first Sullan reform88. of 666, was now utterly abolished. Since the time of GaiusGracchus the government had conceded, as it were, theright of emeute to the proletariate of the capital, and boughtit off by regular distributions of corn to the burgesses domi­ciled there; Sulla abolished these largesses. Gaius Grac­chus had organized and consolidated the order of capitalistsby the letting of the tenths and customs of the province ofAsia in Rome; Sulla did away with the system of middle­men, and converted the former contributions of the Asiaticsinto fixed taxes, which were assessed on the several districtsaccording to the valuation-rolls drawn up for the purposeof gathering in the arrears.* Gaius Gracchus had by * That Sulla's assessment of the five years' arrears and of the war expenseslevied on the communities of Asia(Appian. Mithr. 62 et a/.) formed a standardfor the future, is shown by the facts, tiiat the distribution of Asia into fortydistricts is referred to Sulla (Cassiodor. Chron. 670) and that the Sullanapportionment was assumed as a basis in the case of subsequent imposts (Cic. A.