OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 413 Sulla struck as regent, were scarcely more than pieces coinedfor the convenience of his triumphal presents. Silver stillas before circulated exclusively as actual money; gold,whether it, as was usual, circulated in bars or bore thestamp of a foreign or possibly even of an inland mint, wastaken solely by weight. Nevertheless gold and silver wereon a par as means of exchange, and the fraudulent alloyingof gold was treated in law, like the issuing of spurious silvermoney, as a monetary oifence. They thus obtained theimmense advantage of precluding, in the case of the mostimportant medium of exchange, even the possibility of mone­tary fraud and adulteration. Otherwise the coinage was ascopious as it was of exemplary purity. After the silver piecehad been reduced in the Hannibalic war from r^ (i. 465)to s\ of a pound (ii. 173) it retained for more than threecenturies the same weight and the same quality; no alloy­ing took place. The copper money, which apparently aboutthe beginning of this period had become wholly small changeand had ceased to be employed as formerly in large trans­actions, was confined to the smaller values of an as (id.) andunder, which could not well be represented in silver. Thesorts of coins were arranged according to a simple principle,and in the then smallest coin of the ordinary issue—thequadrans (^-farthing)—carried down to the limit of tangiblevalue. It was a monetary system, which, for the judiciousprinciples on which it was based and for the iron rigour withwhich they were applied, stands alone in antiquity and hasbeen but rarely paralleled even in modern times. Yet it toohad its weak point. According to a custom, common in allantiquity, but which reached its highest development at Car­thage (ii. 20), the Roman government issued along with the Token-good silver denarii also denarii of copper plated with silver, money.which had to be accepted like the former and were just atoken-money analogous to our paper currency, with com­pulsory circulation and recourse on the public chest, inasmuchas it also was not entitled to reject the plated pieces. Thiswas no more an official adulteration of the coinage than ourmanufacture of paper money, for they practised the thingquite openly; Marcus Drusus proposed in 663, with the 91.view of gaining the means for his largesses of grain, thesending forth of one plated denarius for every seven silverones issuing fresh from the mint; nevertheless this measurenot only offered a dangerous handle to private forgery, but