OCR Output KICOPOUS.NIDUM. 427 St crnrr part; and there can be little doubt that theiral .wboor, intended bj Strabo, was the port ofr«ij nam the irolf, the distance of which frommrapondj to the 12 stadia of Strabo. andwkn than iff tome Roman ruiai a little within•atalfct marra ibore of the creek. The port ofC—m was fcahiiatj at Mytikn. bnt the name ofQmm a bow given to the wide bay north ofI** ioi nuu of NicopDin are now called Paleoyre-am Ob approaching them from Prevrsa, thetaul* fat Nam to tome small arched buildings4 -> t, which were probably sepulchres, beyond■kta in tbe remains of a strong wall, probably theaskci admn of the city. Near the south-of the lagoon Mdzoma, is theor cast Ir. It is an irregular pentagonalwith walls and with squarenterrak. about 25 feet in height Onthe walK are most perfect, and here•J gate. The extent of the enclosureof a mile. The variety of marblesod enn the remains of inscriptions oftf lav Roman Empire, inserted in thethe whole to hare been a repair,upon the site of the original acro-to as to hare been sufficiently largepopulation of the place. Itas Leake conjectures, the work ofNicopolis. Watlred yards westward of the Paleohastronmf a small theatre but little dilapi-GcJ. Lake says that it appears to be aboutbat Lieut. Wolfe describes itfret to diameter. Being built upon lerel* hark or highest part is entirely sup-•P* a* arched corridor. Between this theatre and the shore, are the ruins of a quadran­gular building of brick, which was perhaps a palace,as it has numerous apartments, with many niches inthe walls for statues, and some remains of a stonepavement It stands just within an aqueduct, sup­ported upon arches, which entered Nicopolis on thenorth, and was 30 miles in length. Considerableremains of it are met with in different parts ofKpeirus. Farther north, at the foot of a range of hills, arethe remains of the great theatre, which is the mostconspicuous object among the ruins. It is one of thebest preserved Roman theatres in existence. Thetotal diameter is about 300 feet. The scene is 120feet long, and 30 in depth. There are 27 rows ofseats in three divisions. From the back of thetheatre rises the hill of Mxkhalttzi, which was un­doubtedly the site of the tent of Augustus before thebattle of Actium. Close to the theatre are theruins of the stadium, which was circular at bothends, unlike all the other stadia of Greece, butsimilar to several in Asia Minor, which have beenconstructed or repaired by the Romans. Below thestadium are some ruins, which are perhaps those ofthe gymnasium, since we know from Strabo (vii. p.325) that the gymnasium was near the stadium.The accompanying map is taken from Lieut Wolfe'ssurvey. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 185,seq.; Wolfe, in Journal of Geogr. Soc* vol. iii. p.92, seq.) COIN OF NICOFOUS IN EPEIRUS. 2. A town of Thrace, not far from the month ofthe Nessua, and therefore called by Ptolemy (iii. 11.§ 13) NWtoAij ij wtpl N^ffffof. It appearsto have been founded by Trajan, as it is sumamcdUlpia upon coins. The Scholiast upon Ptolemysays that it was subsequently named Christopolis;but it is still called Nicopolis by Socrates (//. E.vii, 36) and Hierocles (p. G35). 3. A town of Thrace at the foot of Mt Haemns.(Ptol. iii. 11. § 11.) 4. A town of Thrace, situated at the place wherethe Iatrus flows into the Danube, and erected byTrajan in memory of his victory over the Dacians.(Amm. Marc. xxxi. 5 ; Jornand. de Reb. Get. c. 18;Hierocl. p. 636.) NICOTKRA (Xicotera), a town of Bruttium,known only from the Antonine Itinerary (pp. 106,111), which places it 18 M. P. south of ViboValentia, on the road to Rhegium. It is repeatedlymentioned in the middle ages, and slill exists underits ancient name as a considerable town and anepiscopal see. [E. H. B.] NIDUM or NIDUS, a town of Britain, situatedaccording to the Itinerary (p. 484), on the road from[aca Dumnuniorum to Isca Silurum.and consequentlyin the territory of the Belgae. This site, however,is in all probability false: and it appears rather tohave been a town of the Silures, the modern Neath,on the river of that name in Glamorganshire,(Camden, p. 735.) [T.H.D.]