OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 163 haste, and ordered them to march at a slower rate.On the other side, the Etrurians, putting themselvesin motion on the first beginning of the fray, had comeup with their whole force ; and several expresses cameto the dictator, one after another, that all the legionsof the Etrurians had joined in the fight, and that hismen could not any longer withstand them: at the sametime he himself saw from the higher ground the peril­ous situation of the party. Confident, however, thatthe lieutenant-general was able, even yet, to supportthe dispute, and considering that he himself was athand to rescue him from defeat, he wished to let theenemy be fatigued as much as might be, in order thatwhen in that state he might fall on them with his freshtroops. Slowly as these marched, the distance wasnow just sufficient for the cavalry to begin their careerfor a charge. The battalions of the legions marchedin front, lest the enemy might suspect any secret orsudden movement, but intervals had been left in theranks of the infantry, affording room for the horsesto gallop through. At the same instant the lineraised the shout, and the cavalry, charging at fullspeed, poured on the enemy, and spread at once a ge­neral panic. After this, as succor had arrived, almosttoo late, to the 1party surrounded, so now they wereallowed intire rest, the fresh troops taking on them­selves the whole business of the fight. Nor was thateither long or dubious. The enemy were routed, andfled to their camp, which the Romans advancing toattack, they crowded altogether in the remotest partof it. Their flight being obstructed by the narrownessof the gates, the greater number climbed up on themounds and ramparts, to try if they could either de­fend themselves with the aid of the advantageousground, or get over by any means and escape. Onepart of the rampart, happening to be badly compacted,sunk under the weight of the multitude who stood onit, and fell into the trench. On which, crying outthat the gods had opened that pass to give them safety,they made their way out, most of them leaving their