OCR Output 422 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. of production, the intelligence of its agriculturists, thecleverness of its merchants found no adequate scope in thepeninsula; these circumstances and the public service carriedthe Italians in great numbers to the provinces (P. 411).Their privileged position there rendered the Roman lan­guage and the Roman law privileged also, even whereRomans were not merely transacting business with eachother (P. 374). Everywhere the Italians kept together ascompact and organized masses, the soldiers in their legions,the merchants of every larger town as special associations,the Roman burgesses domiciled or sojourning in the severaljudicial districts of the provinces as "circuits" (conventuscivium Romanorum) with their own list of jurymen and insome measure with a communal constitution; and, thoughthese provincial Romans ordinarily returned sooner or laterto Italy, they nevertheless gradually laid the foundations ofa settled mixed population in the provinces, partly Roman,partly attaching itself to the Roman settlers. We havealready mentioned that it was in Spain, where the Romanarmy first acquired a permanent character, that distinctprovincial towns with Italian constitution were first organ-171. 137. ized—Carteia in 583 (P. 4), Valentia in 616 (P. 18), andat a later date Palma and Pollentia (P. 19). Althoughthe interior was still far from civilized,—the territory of theVaccaeans, for instance, being still mentioned long after thistime as one of the rudest and most repulsive places of abodefor the cultivated Italian—authors and inscriptions attestthat as early as the middle of the seventh century the Latinlanguage was in common use around New Carthage andelsewhere along the coast. Gracchus first distinctly de­veloped the idea of colonizing, or in other words of Roman­izing, the provinces of the Roman state by Italian emigration,and endeavoured to carry it out; and, although the conser­vative opposition resisted the bold project, destroyed for themost part the colonies first established, and prevented itscontinuation, yet the colony of Narbo was preserved intact,important even of itself as extending the range of the Latintongue, and far more important still as the landmark of agreat idea, the foundation-stone of a mighty structure tocome. The ancient Gallicism, and in fact the modernFrench type of character, have proceeded from that settle­ment and are in their ultimate origin creations of GaiusGracchus. But the Latin nationality not only filled the