OCR Output 514 ROM'AN EMPIRE. first efforts were assisted by a gift of horses and cattle;and the hardy exiles, who breathed revenge against theSaracens, swore to live and die under the standard ofSt. Peter. The nations of the west and north who visitedthe threshold of the apostles, had gradually formed thelarge and populous suburb of the Vatican, and their va­rious habitations were distinguished, in the language ofthe times, as the schools of the Greeks and Goths, of theLombards and Saxons. But this venerable spot was stillopen to sacrilegious insult: the design of enclosing itwith walls and towers exhausted all that authority couldcommand, or charity would supply; and the pious la­bour of four years was animated in every season, and atevery hour, by the presence of the indefatigable pontiff.The love of fame, a generous but worldly passion, mayFounda- ^e detected in the name of the Leonine city,tionofthe which he bestowed on the Vatican; yet the Leonine i . «_ city, pride of the dedication was tempered withChristian penance and humility. The boundarywas trod by the bishop and his clergy, barefoot in sack­cloth and ashes; the songs of triumph were modulatedto psalms and litanies; the walls were besprinkled withholy water; and the ceremony was concluded with aprayer, that under the guardian care of the apostles andthe angelic host, both the old and the new Rome mightever be preserved pure, prosperous, and impregnable.1The Amo- The emperor Theophilus, son of Michael thenan war Stammerer, was one of the most active and high- between . . ,' . . „. . °. M- spirited princes who reigned at Constantinople Motassem, during the middle age. In offensive or defensiveA. D. ass. waf, |ie marched m person five times against theSaracens, formidable in his attack, esteemed by the x The Arabs and the Greeks are alike silent concerning the invasion of Romeby the Africans. The Latin chronicles do not afford much instruction. (See theAnnals of Baronios and Pagi.) Our authentic and contemporary guide for thepopes of the ninth century is Anastasius, librarian of the Koman church. His lifeof Leo IV. contains twenty-four pages (p. 175 — 199. edit. Paris'); and if a greatpart consist of superstitious trifles, we must blame or commend his hero, who wasmuch oftener in a church than in a camp.