OCR Output aw. 899.] 325 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. covery. But the God of the Hebrews ap­peared to Elijah the prophet, and commandedhim to go and meet the messengers that weresent; and to ask them, whether the people ofIsrael had not a God of their own, that theking sent to a foreign god to inquire about hisrecovery? and to bid them return and tellthe king that he would not escape this disease.And when Elijah had performed what Godhad commanded, and the messengers hadheard what he said, they returned to the kingimmediately. And when the king wonderedhow they could return so soon, and askedthem the reason of it, they said, " A certainman met us,* and forbade us to go on anyfarther, but to return and tell thee, from thecommand of the God of Israel, that this dis­ease will have a bad termination."t Andwhen the king desired them to describe theman who said this to them, they replied, " Hewas a hairy man; and was girt about with agirdle of leather." So the king understoodthat the man described by the messengerswas Elijah. Hereupon he sent a captain tohim; with fifty soldiers, and commanded themto bring Elijah to him. And when the cap­tain that was sent found Elijah sitting uponthe top of a hill, he commanded him to comedown, and to come to the king; for so had heenjoined: but that in case he refused theywould carry him by force. Elijah replied, "That you may have a trial whether I be atrue prophet, I will pray that fireJ may fallfrom heaven, and destroy both the soldiersand thyself." So he prayed, and a whirlwindof fire fell from heaven, and destroyed thecaptain and those that were with him. Andwhen the king was informed of the destructionof these men, he was very angry, and sentanother captain with the like number ofarmed men that were sent before. And whenthis captain also threatened the prophet,that, unless he came down of his own accord,he would take and carry him away; upon hisprayer against him the fire from heaven slewthis captain as well as the other. And when,upon inquiry, the king was informed of whathappened to him, he sent out a third captain.But when this captain, who was a wise man,and of a mild disposition, came to the placewhere Elijah happened to be, he spake civillyto him; and said, he knew that it was withouthis own consent, and only in submission tothe king's command, that he came to him; andthat those that came before, did not comewillingly, but on the same account. Hetherefore desired him to have pity on thosearmed men that were with him, and to comedown and follow him to the king. So Elijahaccepted of his discreet words and courteousbehaviour, and came down and followed him.And when he came to the king he told him, possession of it. It was situated near the MediterraneanSea, between Ashdod and Jamnia, in a moist and hot soil,and was therefore very much infested with flies. CalmtfsDictionary, and Patrick's Commentary. B. * The description which the messengers give of Elijahis,—That he was a hairy man, and girt with a girdle ofleather about his loins, 2 Kings i. 8. where his being ahairy man, may either denote his wearing long hair on hishead, and his beard, as the ancient Greek philosopherswere wont to do, and as Lucan describes Cato, Intensos rigidam in frontem descendere canosPassus erat, moestamque genis,increscere barbam. Or it may denote his habit, which was made of skins,rough, and with their hair on, as the ancient heroes wereclothed in the skins of lions, tigers, and bears: as theEvangelists represent the Baptist in a raiment of camel'shair, Matt. iii. 4. as the apostle describes the prophets,wandering about in sheep skins and goat skins, Heb. xi.37. and as Statius dresses up old Tiresius, longaevi vatis.opacos Tiresiae vultus, vocemaue et vellera notaInduitur. . Theb. lib. 2. B.\ 2 Kings i. 6. | It is commonly esteemed a cruel action of Elijah,when he called for fire from heaven, and consumed twocaptains and a hundred soldiers; and this for no othercrime than obeying the orders of their king, in attempting-to seize him. And our Saviour notices it as an instance ofgreater severity than the spirit of the New Testamentallows, Luke ix. 54. But we must consider, that it is notunlikely that these captains and soldiers believed theywere sent to fetch the prophet, that he might be put todeath, for foretelling the death of the king; and this, whilethey knew him to be the prophet of the true God, thesupreme king of Israel, (for they were still under thetheocracy,) which was no less than impiety, rebellion, andtreason, in the highest degree. Nor would the commandof a subaltern, or inferior captain, contradicting the com­mands of the general, when the captain and the soldiersboth knew it to be so, as I suppose, justify or excuse suchgross rebellion and disobedience in soldiers at this day.Accordingly when Saul commanded his guards to slayAhimelech, and the priests at Nob, they knew it to be anunlawful command, and would not obey it, 1 Sam. xxii. 17.From which cases both officers and soldiers may learn,that the commands of their leaders or kings cannot justifyor excuse them in doing what is wicked ia'the sight ofGod, or in fighting in an unjust cause, when they know itso to be. See the Notes on VII. 13. and Vill. 14. 3L2