OCR Output ■jus THE DECLINE AND FALL calmer moments, Nestorius confessed, that it might be tolerated or excused bythe union of the two natures; and the communication of their idioms:{V) but hewas exasperated by contradiction, to disclaim the worship of anew-born, an infantDeity, to draw his inadequate similes from the conjugal or civil partnerships oflife, and to describe the manhood of Christ, as the robe, the instrument, the ta­bernacle of his Godhead. At these blasphemous sounds, the pillars of the sanc­tuary were shaken. The unsuccessful competitors of Nestorius indulged theirpious or personal resentment, the Byzantine clergy was secretly displeased withthe intrusion of a stranger: whatever is superstitious or absurd, might claim theprotection of the monks; and the people were interested in the glory of their vir­gin patroness.(2) The sermons of the archbishop, and the service of the altar,were disturbed by seditious clamour; his authority and doctrine were renouncedby separate congregations; every wind scattered round the empire the leaves ofcontroversy; and the voice of the combatants on a sonorous theatre re-echoed inthe cells of Palestine and Egypt. It was the duty of Cyril to enlighten the zealand ignorance of his innumerable monks; in tlie school of Alexandria, he hadimbibed and professed the incarnation of one nature: and the successor of Atha-nasius consulted his pride and ambition, when he rose in arms against anotherArius, more formidable and more guilty, on the second throne of the hierarchy.After a short correspondence, in which the rival prelates disguised their hatredin the hollow language of respect and charity, the patriarch of Alexandria de­nounced to the prince and people, to the east and to the west, the damnable er­rors of the Byzantine pontiff. From the east, more, especially from Antioch, heobtained the ambiguous counsels of toleration and silence, which were addressedto both parties while they favoured the cause of Nestorius. But the Vatican re­ceived with open arms the messengers of Egypt. The vanity of Celestine wasflattered by the appeal; and the partial version of a monk decided the faith ofthe pope, who, with his Latin clergy, was ignorant of the language, the arts, andthe theology of the Greeks. At the head of an Italian synod, Celestine weighedthe merits of the cause, approved the creed of Cyril, condemned the sentimentsand person of Nestorius, degraded the heretic from his episcopal dignity, alloweda respite of ten days for recantation and penance, and delegated to his enemy theexecution of this rash and illegal sentence. But the patriarch of Alexandria,whilst he darted the thunders of a god, exposed the errors and passions of amortal; and his twelve(3) anathemas still torture the orthodox slaves, who adorethe memory of a saint, without forfeiting their allegiance to the synod of Chalce-don. These bold assertions are indelibly tinged with the colours of the Apollina-rian heresy; but the serious, and perhaps the sincere, professions of Nestorius,have satisfied the wiser and less partial theologians of the present times. (4) Yet neither the emperor nor the primate of the east were disposed to obey themandate of an Italian priest; and a synod of the catholic, or rather of the Greekchurch, was unanimously demanded as the sole remedy that could appease or de­cide this ecclesiastical quarrel. (5) Ephesus, on all sides accessible by sea andland, was chosen for the place, the festival of Pentecost, for the day of the meet­ing; a writ of summons was despatched to each metropolitan, and a guard was sta­tioned to .protect and confine the fathers, till they should settle the mysteries ofheaven, and the faith of the earth. Nestorius appeared not as a criminal, but asa judge; he depended rather on the weight than the number of his prelates, andhis sturdy slaves from the baths of Zeuxippus were armed for every service of in­jury or defence. But his adversary Cyril was more powerful in the weapons both (1) The «vTi-Wi; of the Greeks, a mutual loan or transfer of the idioms of properties of each nature to theother—of infinity to man, possibility to God, Sec. Twelve rules on this nicest of subjects compose the Theo­logical Grammar of Petavius. (Dogmata Theolog. torn. T. lib. iv. e. 14,15. p. 209, &c.) (2) See Ducange,C. P. Christiana, lib. L p. 30,&c. (3) Concil. torn. iiL p. 043. They have never been directly approved by the church. (Tillemont, Mem. Ec-cles. torn. xiv. p. 368—S72.) I almost pity the agony of rage and sophistry with which Petavius seems to beagitated in the sixth book of his Dogmata Theologica. (4) Such as the rational Basnage, (ad torn. i. Variar. Lection. Canisii in Prefat. c ii. p. 11—23.) and La Croze,the universal scholar. (Christianisme des Indej, torn. i. p. 16—20. De I'Ethiope, p. 26. 27. Thesaur. Episr.p. 176, &c. 283. 285.) His free sentence is confirmed by that of his friends Jablonski (Thesaur. Epist. torn. i.p. 193—201.) and Mosheim, (idem, p. 304. Nestoriom crimine carnisse est et mea sententia;) and three?morerespectable judges wSl not easily be found. Asseman, a learned and modest slave, can hardly discern (Bibli-othec. Orient, torn. iv. p. 190—224.) the guilt and error of the Nestorians. (fi) The origin and progress of the Nestorian controversy till the synod of Ephesus, may be found in So­crates, (lib. vii. c 32.) Evacrmi, (lib. i. c. 1,2.) Liberatus,(Brev.c. 1—4.) the original Acts, (Concil. torn. iii.p. 551—991. edit. Venise, 1728.) the Annals of Baronius and Fagi, aD<l the faithful collections of Tillcmoni.(Mem. Ecclei. torn. xiv. p. 283—377.)