OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. wife of Dardanus, was unable to support the ruin of hercountry; she abandoned the dances of her sister orbs,fled from the zodiac to the north pole, and obtained,from her dishevelled locks, the name of the comet. Thethird period expires in the year 618, a date that exactlyagrees with the tremendous comet of the Sibyll, and per­haps of Pliny, which arose in the west two generationsbefore the reign of Cyrus. The fourth apparition, forty-four years before the birth of Christ, is of all others themost splendid and important. After the death of Caesar,a long-haired star was conspicuous to Rome and to thenations, during the games which were exhibited by youngOctavian, in honour of Venus and his uncle. The vul­gar opinion, that it conveyed to heaven the divine soul ofthe dictator, was cherished and consecrated by the pietyof a statesman: while his secret superstition referred thecomet to the glory of his own times.k Thejifth visit hasalready been ascribed to the fifth year of Justinian, whichcoincides with the five hundred and thirty-first of theChristian era. And it may deserve notice, that in this,as in the preceding instance, the comet was followed,though at a longer interval, by a remarkable paleness ofthe sun. The sixth return, in the year 1100", is record-,ed by the chronicles of Europe and China; and in thefirst fervour of the Crusades, the Christians and the Ma->hometans might surmise, with equal reason, that it por->tended the destruction of the infidels. The seventhphenomenon of 1680 was presented to the eyes of anenlightened age.1 The philosophy of Bayle dispelled aprejudice which Milton's muse had so recently adorned, * Pliny (Hist. Nat. 2. 23.) has transcribed the original memorial of Augustus,Mairan, in his most ingenious letters to the P. Parennin, missionary in China, re­moves the games and the comet of September, from the year 44 to the year 43, beforethe Christian era; hat I am not totally subdued by the criticism of the astronomer,(Opuscules, p. 275—351.) 1 This last comet was visible in the month of December, 1680. Bayle, who beganbis Peusies sur )e Comete in January, 1681, (CEnvres, tom. 3.) was forced to arguethat a supernatural comet would have confirmed the ancients in their idolatry. Ber­noulli (see his Elo^e, in Fontenelle, tom. 5. p. 99.) was forced to allow that the tail,though sot the bead, vras a sign of the wrath of Cod.