OCR Output 298 ROMAN EMPIRE. cuses him of fraud or extortion, the tenth, under the ideaof restitution, is enlarged to ajifth* Benevolence is thefoundation, of justice, since we are forbid to injure thosewhom we are bound to assist. A prophet may revealthe secrets of heaven and of futurity;. but in his moralprecepts he can only repeat the lessons of our ownhearts. Remittee- The two articles of belief, and the four prac-^™. tical duties of Islam, are guarded by rewards andpunishments; and the faith of the Mussulman is devoutlyfixed on the event of the judgment and the last day.The prophet has not presumed to determine the momentof that awful catastrophe, though he darkly announcesthe signs, both in heaven and earth, which will precedethe universal dissolution, when life shall be destroyed,and the order of creation shall be confounded in the pri­mitive chaos. At the blast of the trumpet, new worldswill start into being; angels, genii, and men, will arisefrom the dead, and the human soul will again be unitedto the body. The doctrine of the resurrection was firstentertained by the Egyptians;0 and their mummies wereembalmed, their pyramids were constructed, to preservethe ancient mansion of the soul, during a period of threethousand years. But the attempt is partial and unavail­ing; and it is with a more philosophic spirit that Maho­met relies on the omnipotence of the Creator, whoseword can reanimate the breathless clay, and collect theinnumerable atoms, that no longer retain their form orsubstance.11 The intermediate state of the soul it is hard i The jealousy of Maracci (Prodromus, part 4. p. 33.) prompts him to enumeratethe more liberal alma of the Catholics of Rome. Fifteen great hospitals are opento many thousand patients and pilgrims, fifteen hundred maidens are annually por­tioned, fifty-six charity-schools are founded' for both sexes, one hundred and twentyconfraternities relieve the wants of their brethren, &c. The benevolence of Londonis still more extensive; but I am afraid that much more is to be ascribed to thehumanity, than to the religion of the people. 0 See Herodotus, (lib. 2.c.l23.)and our learned countryman, sir John Marsham.(Canon. Chronicus, p. 46.) The AJnf of the same writer (p. 244—274.) is an ela­borate sketch of the infernal regions, as they were painted by the fancy of theEgyptians and Greeks, of the poets and philosophers of antiquity. PThe Koran(c. 2. p. 259, &C. of Sale,p. 32. of Maracci, p. 97.)relates an inge­nious miracle, which satisfied the curiosity, and confirmed the faith, of Abraharn.