OCR Output 16 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Yet the bitter lesson seemed utterly lost on the successorof Mancinus, his colleague in the consulship, MarcusJEmilius Lepidus. While the discussions as to the treatywith Mancinus were pending in Rome, he attacked the freenation of the Vaccaei under frivolous pretexts just asLucullus had done sixteen years before, and began inconcert with the general of the Further province to besiege136. Pallantia (618). A decree of the senate enjoined him todesist from the war; nevertheless, under the pretext thatthe circumstances had changed in the mean time, he con­tinued the siege. In doing so he showed himself as bada soldier as he was a bad citizen. After lying so longbefore the large and strong city that his supplies in thatrugged and hostile country failed, he was obliged to leavebehind all the sick and wounded and to undertake aretreat, in which the pursuing Pallantines destroyed halfof his soldiers, and, if they had not broken off the pur­suit too early, would probably have utterly annihilated theRoman army, which was already in full course of dissolution.For this fault a fine was imposed on the highborn generalat his return. His successors Lucius Furius Philus136. 135. (618) and Gaius Calpurnius Piso (619) had again towage war against the Numantines; and, inasmuch as theydid nothing at all, they fortunately came home withoutdefeat.Scipio Even the Roman government began at length to perceive .lEmilianus. that matters could no longer continue on this footing;they resolved to intrust the subjugation of the smallSpanish country-town, as an extraordinary measure, to ScipioiEmilianus the first general of Rome. The pecuniary re­sources for carrying on the war were indeed doled out tohim with preposterous parsimony, and the permission to levysoldiers which he asked was even directly refused—a circum­stance due, probably, to coterie-intrigues and to the fearof being burdensome to the sovereign people. But a greatnumber of friends and clients voluntarily accompanied him;among them was his brother Maximus lEmilianus, who someyears before had commanded with distinction against Viria-thus. Supported by this trusty band, which was formed intoa guard for the general, Scipio began to reorganize the134. deeply disordered army (620). First of all the camp-followershad to take their departure—there were as many as 2000 cour­tesans, and an endless number of soothsayers and priests of .>