OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 307 camp. Flaccus was deposed by the army and soon after­wards put to death at Nicomedia, not far from Chalcedon;Fimbria was installed by decree of the soldiers in his stead.As a matter of course he allowed his troops every indul­gence; in the friendly Cyzicus, for instance, the citizenswere ordered to surrender all their property to the soldierson pain of death, and by way of warning example two of themost respectable citizens were at once executed. Neverthe­less in a military point of view the change of commander-in-chief was a gain; Fimbria was not, like Flaccus, an inca­pable general, but energetic and talented. At Miietopolis (on Fimbria'sthe Rhyndacus to the west of Brussa) he defeated the younger victory atMithradates, who as governor of the satrapy of Pontus had MiletoPolls.marched against him, completely in a nocturnal assault, andby this victory opened his way to Pergamus, the capital for­merly of the Roman province and now of the Pontic king,whence he dislodged the king and compelled him to takeflight to the port of Pitane not far off, with the view ofthere embarking. Just at that moment Lucullus appearedin those waters with his fleet; Fimbria adjured him torender assistance so that he might be enabled to capture theking. But the optimate was stronger in Lucullus than thepatriot; he sailed onward and the king escaped to Mityllene.The situation of Mithradates was thus sufficiently embar- Perilousrassed. At the end of 669 Europe was lost, Asia Minor position[8o.partly in rebellion against him, partly occupied by a Roman j™ Mlthra-army; and he himself threatened by the latter in his imme- a'diate vicinity. The Roman fleet under Lucullus had main­tained its position on the Trojan coast by two successfulnaval engagements at the promontory of Lectum and at theisland of Tenedos; it was joined there by the ships whichhad in the meanwhile been built by Sulla's orders in Thes-saly, and by its position commanding the Hellespont itsecured to the general of the senatorial army a safe andeasy passage next spring to Asia. Mithradates attempted to negotiate. Under other cir- Negotia-cutnstances no doubt the author of the edict for the Ephe-tions forsian massacre could never have cherished the hope of being Peace#admitted at all to terms of peace with Rome; but amidstthe internal convulsions of the Roman republic, when theruling government had declared the general sent againstMithradates an outlaw and subjected his partisans at hometo the most fearful persecutions, when one Roman general