OCR Output CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 65 CHAP. XXXIII. The Latins conquered, and made free of the city. X\NCUS having committed the care of religious mat­ters to the Fiamens and other priests, and having leviedla new army, marched against Polytorium, and took itby storm. Then, following the example of his predecessors, inadding to the population of the city, by adntitting theconquered nations, he transported all the inhabitants toRome. And because all the ground about the Palatium•had been assigned to the ancient Romans, that about thecapital and castle to the Sabines, and mount Caelius tothe Albans, the Aventine mount was appointed for thenew people. Soon after, another set from Tellini andFicana also taken, were stationed in the same quarter.Polytorium suffered a new siege, some time after this,having been a second time peopled by the Latins. Forthis reason it was razed to the ground, that it might nptbe a place of refuge for the enemy. After this, Medulla became the seat of the war, whereseveral battles were fought with various success, in whichneither party had much advantage; for the town wasdefended by strong works, and an able garrison; andthe Latin army, being encamped in the open plain, hadseveral skirmishes with the Romans. At .last, Ancusmustering all his force, for the first time, obtained acomplete victory, and returned to Rome with a consider­able booty. On that occasion too, many thousands ofthe Latins were received into the city, and accommodat-.ed with. ground to build upon near the temple of Murcia,in order thereby fo join the Aventine and Palatine hills.Janiculum was also added, not for want of room, but lestat any time it should become a lodgement to the enemy.He thought proper alsp to join it to the city, not only bya wall, but also, for the convenience of travelling, by .awooden brjdge; the first that was ever thrown over theTiber. The Fossa Quiritium, which rendered the city less ac­cessible from. the. lower grounds, was also the work of - •./ • .• cJ i!' . • • .-. ••• •-.'..