OCR Output C. V.] PRECEDING SIGNS. 275 erablo a nature as to deserve such signals: for, before sun-setting, chariots and troops of soldiers in their armor wereseen running about among the clouds, and surrounding ofcities. Moreover, at the feast which we call Pentecost, as thepriests were going by night into the inner1 [court of the]temple, as their custom was, to perform their sacred minis­trations, they said that in the first place they felt a quaking,and heard a great noise, and after that they heard a sound asof a multitude, saying, " Let us remove hence." But whatis still more terrible, there was one Jesus the son of Ananus,a plebeian and a husbandman, who four years before the warbegan, and at that time the city was in very great peace andprosperity, came to that feast whereon it is our custom forevery one to make tabernacles to God in the temple,2 began,on a sudden to cry aloud, — "A voice from the east, a voicefrom the west, a voice from the four winds, a voice againstJerusalem and the holy house, a voice against the bridegroomsand the brides, and a voice against this whole people." Thiswas his cry, as he went about by day and by night, in all thelanes of the city. However, certain of the most eminentamong the populace had great indignation at this dire cry ofhis, and took up the man, and gave him a great number ofsevere stripes: yet did he not cither say any thing for him­self, or any thing peculiar to those that chastised him, butstill went on with the same words which he cried before.Hereupon our rulers, supposing, as the case proved to be, thatthis was a sort of divine fury in the man, brought him to theRoman procurator, where he was whipped till his bones werelaid bare : yet did not he make any supplication for himself,nor shed any tears; but turning his voice to the most lamentable 1 This hero seems to be the court of the priests. * Both Reland and Havercamp in this place follow after the naturalpunctuation and sense of Josephus, and this contrary to the opinion of Va-lesius and Dr. Hudson, lest Josephus should say that the Jews built boothsor tents within the temple, at the feast of Tabernacles; which the latter rab­bins will not allow to have been the ancient practice : but then, since it isexpressly told us in Nchemiah, viii. 10, that in still older times, the Jcwtmade booths in the court of the house of God at that festival, Josephus may wellbe permitted to say the same. And, indeed, the modern rabbins are of verysmall authority in all such matters of remote antiquity.