OCR Output 308 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. opposed the other and yet both stood opposed to the samefoe, he hoped that he should be able to obtain not merely apeace, but a favourable peace. He had the choice of apply­ing to Sulla or to Fimbria; he caused negotiations to beinstituted with both, yet it seems from the first to have beenhis design to come to terms with Sulla, who, at least from theking's point of view, seemed decidedly superior to his rival.His general Archelaus, as instructed by his master, askedSulla to cede Asia to the king and to expect in return theking's aid against the democratic party in Rome. But Sulla,cool and clear as ever, while urgently desiring a speedy set­tlement of Asiatic affairs on account of the position of thingsin Italy, estimated the advantages of the Cappadocian alli­ance for the war impending over him in Italy as very slight,nariesTf and was altogether too much of a Roman to consent to soDelium. disgraceful and so injurious a concession. In the peace85-84. conferences, which took place in the winter of 669-70, atDelium on the coast of Boeotia opposite to Eubcea, liedistinctly refused to cede even a foot s-breadth of land, but,with good reason faithful to the old Roman custom of notincreasing after victory the demands made before battle, didnot go beyond the conditions previously laid down. He re­quired the restoration of all the conquests made by the kingand not wrested from him again—Cappadocia, Paphlagonia,Gralatia, Bithynia, Asia Minor and the islands—the sur­render of prisoners and deserters, the delivering up of theeighty war-vessels of Archelaus to reinforce the still insig­nificant Roman fleet, lastly, pay and provisions for the armyand the very moderate sum of 3000 talents (£732,000) asindemnity for the expenses of the war. The Chians carriedoff to the Black Sea were to be sent home, the families ofthe Macedonians who were friendly to Rome and had becomerefugees were to be restored, and a number of war-vesselswere to be delivered to the cities in alliance with Ronie. Be>specting Tigranes, who in strictness ought likewise to havebeen included in the peace, there was silence on both aides,since neither of the contracting parties cared for the endlessfurther arrangements which would be occasioned by makinghim a party. The king thus retained the state of possessionwhich he had before the war, nor was he subjected to anyhumiliation affecting his honour.* Archelaus, clearly per­ Prelimi- * The statement that Mithradates in the peace stipulated for impunity Uthe towns which had embraced his side (Memnon, 35) seems, looking to th«