OCR Output 25§ DECLINE AND tfALL [CHAP. XLIIJ; mans; and our wonder is reasonably excited that theyshould presume to enlarge an empire, whose ancient li­mits they were incapable of defending. But the wars,the conquests, and the triumphs, of Justinian, are thefeeble and pernicious efforts of old age, which exhaustthe remains of strength, and accelerate the decay of thepowers of life. He exulted in the glorious act of restor­ing Africa and Italy to the republic; but the calamitieswhich followed the departure of Belisarius betrayed the. impotence of the conqueror, and accomplished the ruinof those unfortunate countries. . '.": The troo- From his new acquisitions, Justinian expected that hisAfrica, avarice, as well as pride, should be richly gratified. A—545.535 rapacious minister of the finances closely pursued thefootsteps of Belisarius; and as the old registers of tributehad been burnt by the Vandals, he indulged his fancy ina liberal calculation and arbitrary assessment of thewealth of Africa." The increase of taxes, which weredrawn away by a distant sovereign, and a general re­sumption of the patrimony or crown lands, soon dispell­ed the intoxication of the public joy: but the emperorwas insensible to the modest complaints of the people,till he was awakened and alarmed by the clamours ofmilitary discontent. Many of the Roman soldiers hadmarried the widows and daughters of the Vandals. »Astheir own, by the double right of conquest and inherit­ance, they claimed the estates which Genseric had assign­ed to his victorious troops. They heard with disdain thecold and selfish representations of their officers, that the Theophanes (in Chronograph, p. 144,145. 188, 189. 206, 207. who is full of strangeblunders); Poeock; (Specimen Hist. Arab. p. 62. 65.) d'Herbelot, (Biblrot. Orien-tale, p. 12. 477.) and Sale's Preliminary Discourse and Koran. (c. 105.) The re­volt of Abrahab is mentioned by Procopioj; and his fall, though clouded with mira­cles, is an historical fact. • - , ,' . * For the troubles of Africa, I neither hare nor desire another gnide than Prono-pins, whose eye eontemplated the image, and whose ear collected the reports, of thememorable events of his own times. "In the second book of the Vandalic war he re­lates the revolt of Stozas, (e. 14—24.) the return of Belisarius, (c. 15.) the victoryof Germanus, (c. 16—18.) the second administration of Solomon, (e. 19—21.) thegoverument of Sergius, (c. 22, 23.) of Areoblndus, (c. 24.) the tyranny and death ofGontharis; (c. 25—28.) nor can I discern any symptoms of flattery or malevolencein his various, portraits. . ». >' . .' I)