OCR Output 310 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IT. self with such a peace. But the self-denial and the sagacitywith which he had conducted this whole war were onlydisplayed afresh in the conclusion of this peace; for warwith a prince, to whom almost the whole coast of the BlackSea belonged, and whose obstinacy was clearly displayedeven by the last negotiations, would even under the mostfavourable circumstances require years, and the situation ofItaly was such that it seemed almost too late even for Sullato oppose the party in power there with the few legionswhich he possessed.* Before this could be done, however,it was absolutely necessary to overthrow the bold officerwho was at the head of the democratic army in Asia, in * Armenian tradition also is acquainted with the first Mithradatic war.Ardasches king of Armenia—Moses of Chorene tells us—was not content withthe second rank which rightfully belonged to him in the Persian (Parthian)empire, but compelled the Parthian king Arschagan to give over to him thesupreme power, whereupon he had a palace built for himself in Persia and badcoins struck there with his own image. He appointed Arschagan viceroy ofPersia and his son Dicran (Tigranes) viceroy of Armenia, and gave hisdaughter Ardaschama in marriage to the great prince of the Iberians Mihrdates(Mithradates) who was descended from Mihrdates satrap of Darius and go­vernor appointed by Alexander over the conquered Iberians, and ruled in thenorthern mountains as well as over the Black Sea. Ardasches then tookCroesus the king of the Lydians prisoner, subdued the mainland between thetwo great seas (Asia Minor), and crossed the sea with innumerable vessels tosubjugate the West. As there was anarchy at that time in Rome, he nowhereencountered serious resistance, but his soldiers killed each other and Ardaschesfell by the hands of his own troops. After Ardasches' death his successor Die*ran marched against the army of the Greeks (»'. e. the Romans) who now inturn invaded the Armenian land; he set a limit to their advance, handed overto his brother-in-law Mihrdates the administration of Madschag (Mazaka inCappadocia) and of the interior along with a considerable force, and returned toArmenia. Many years afterwards there were still pointed out in the Arme­nian towns statues of Greek gods by well-known masters, trophies of this cam­paign. We have no difficulty in recognizing here various facts of the first Mithra­datic war, but the whole narrative is evidently confused, furnished with hete­rogeneous additions, and in particular transferred by patriotic falsification toArmenia. In just the same way the victory over Crassus is afterwards attri­buted to the Armenians. These Oriental accounts are to be received with allthe greater caution, that they are by no means mere popular legends; on thecontrary the accounts of Josephus, Eusebius, and other authorities currentamong the Christians of the fifth century have been amalgamated with the Ar­menian traditions, and the historical romances of the Greeks and beyond doubtthe patriotic fancies also of Moses himself have been laid to a considerable ex­tent under contribution. Bad as is our Occidental tradition in itself, to call inthe aid of Oriental tradition in this and similar cases—as has been attemptedfor instance by the uncritical Saint-Martin—can only lead to still further coo-fusion.