OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 47 carrying strong proofs of the ill treatment, none ofartifice, the people were so irritated that by theirclamors they compelled the magistrates to call toge­ther the senate; and whilst some stood round that as­sembly, insisting on a declaration of war against theRomans, others ran different ways to rouse to armsthe multitude residing in the country. Thus the mindseven of rational men being hurried into imprudence bythe general uproar, a decree was passed that the alli­ance with the Samnites should be renewed, and ambas­sadors sent for that purpose. This hasty proceedingsurprised the Samnites, who however insisted that theyshould not only give hostages, but also receive garri­sons into their fortified places ; and they, blinded byresentment, refused no terms. In a little time after,on the authors of the imposition removing to Taren-tum, the whole came to light. But as they had givenall power out of their own hands, nothing was leftthem but unavailing repentance. 28. This year proved as it were a new era of libertyto the Roman commons ; a stop being put to the prac­tice of confining debtors. This alteration1 of the lawwas effected in consequence of the behavior of a usurer,in which lust and cruelty were equally conspicuous.His name was Lucius Papirius. To him one CaiusPublilius having surrendered his person to be confinedfor a debt due by his father, his youth and beauty,which ought to have excited commiseration, operatedon the other's mind as incentives to barbarity. Hefirst attempted to seduce the young man by impurediscourses; but finding that his ears were shockedat their infamous tendency, he then endeavored toterrify him by threats, and reminded him frequently ofhis situation. At last, convinced of his resolution toact conformably to his honorable birth, rather than tohis present condition, he ordered him to be strippedand scourged. With the marks of the rods imprintedin his flesh the youth rushed out into the public street,uttering loud complaints of the depravedness and in­humanity of the usurer. On which a vast number of