OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 245 and the effects of their own intemperance were oftenimputed to the treachery and malice of the Italians,who rejoiced at least in the calamities of the barbarians.This irregular tyranny might contend on equal termswith the petty tyrants of Italy; nor can the people, orthe reader, be much interested in the event of thequarrel. But in the eleventh and twelfth centuries,the Lombards rekindled the flame of industry andfreedom; and the generous example was at length imi­tated by the republics of Tuscany. In the Italiancities a municipal government had never been totallyabolished; and their first privileges were granted bythe favour and policy of the emperors, who were desir­ous of erecting a plebeian barrier against the indepen­dence of the nobles. But their rapid progress, thedaily extension of their power and pretensions, werefounded on the numbers and spirit of these rising com­munities/ Each city filled the measure of her diocessor district: the jurisdiction of the counts and bishops,of the marquises and counts, was banished from theland; and the proudest nobles were persuaded or com­pelled to desert their solitary castles, and to embracethe more honourable character of freemen and magi­strates. The legislative authority was inherent in thegeneral assembly; but the executive powers were in­trusted to three consuls, annually chosen from the threeorders of captains, valvassors,1 and commons, into whichthe republic was divided. Under the protection ofequal law, the labours of commerce and agriculturewere gradually revived; but the martial spirit of theLombards was nourished by the presence of danger; torn. 3. p. 423, 424.) The same author observes that the whole Saxon line wasextinguished in Italy, (torn. 1. p. 440.) * Otbo, bishop of Frinsingen, has left an important passage on the Italian ci­ties; (lib. 2. c. 13. in Script. Ital. torn. 6. p. 707—710.) and the rise, progress,and government, of these republics are perfectly illustrated by Muratori, (Anti-cniitat. Ital. Medii ^Evi, torn. 4. dissert. 45—52. p. 1—675. Annal. torn. 8—10.) 'For these titles, see Selden, (Titles of Honour, vol. 3. part 1. p. 4BB.) Du-cange, (Gloss. Latin, torn. 2. p. 140. torn. 6. p. 776.) and St. Marc. (Abreg6Chroaologiflue, torn. t. p. 719.)