OCR Output 388 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. public, would give up what they held by so unjust a te­nure, he would obstruct the levies no longer. The othernine tribunes put an end to the dispute, and declared itwas the opinion of their college, ' That in opposition to'their colleague, Micnius, they should support the con-• sul Valerius, in imposing fines, or inflicting other pu-'nishments on those who refused to enlist for the war.'The consul now armed with this decree, having seizedand imprisoned some of them who had appealed to thetribunes for assistance, the rest were afraid, and took themilitary oath. However much the consul hated the army, and thearmy him, the moment they appeared before the fortressof Carventitm, they discovered the greatest ardour in dis­lodging the garrison, and recovering the fort. The ne­gligence of such of the garrison as had gone to plunder inthe neighbourhood, gave them a favourable opportunityfor the assault. The booty was considerable, as it con­tained the magazine of all their praedatory acquisitionsround the country. The consul ordered the quaestors tosell the whole at vendue, and put the price in the pablictreasur)-, telling the soldiers they should share in the spoil,when they showed less reluctance to the war. This in-.creased the resentment of the people, as well as of thesoldiers, against the consul; insomuch,.that when, by.order of the senate, he entered the city with an ovation,the soldiers, in their licentious manner, repeated alter­nately a. rough kind of verses, expressive of reproachesto the consul, and high encomiums on the name ofMaenius. The people who lined the way to see the pro­cession, rivalled the soldiers, in expressing their regardto Maenius, by loud acclamations and applauses, as oft asthey heard his name. The senators were,more uneasy onthis account, than at the freedom the soldiers, were tak­ing with the consul, as it was no uncommon thing, onsuch occasions; and concluding from this, that Maeniuswould certainly be advanced to the military tribuneshijj,should he appear as a candidate, they took care to ex­clude him, by appointing thu comitia to be hehj for ,electing consuls.