OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 371 from whence, as an eminence lay between, they could haveno view of one another. There he drew up his men, andmade all ready for the attack. When the news was brought to Hippocrates, who wasyet at Delium, that " the enemy is advancing to the charge,"he sendeth orders to the main-body to form into the orderof battle. And not long after he himself came up, havingleft about three hundred horse at Delium, to guard that placein case an attempt should be made upon it, or seizing a fa­vourable opportunity to fall upon the rear of the Boeotiansduring the engagement. Not but that the Boeotians hadposted a party of their own to watch their motions, and findthem employment. When therefore the whole dispositionwas perfected, they shewed themselves on the top of theeminence, and there grounded their arms, remaining stillin the same order in which they designed to attack, beingin the whole about seven thousand heavy-armed, more thanten thousand light-armed, a thousand horse, and five hun­dred targeteers. The right wing was composed of Thebansand those who ranked with them ; the centre of the Haliar-tians and Coroneans and Copiensians, and others that liveabout the lake (Copaeis) ; and the left of Thespiensians, Ta-nagreans, and Orchomenians. In the wings were posted thecavalry and light-armed. The Thebans were drawn up infiles of twenty-five ; the others variously, as circumstancesrequired. And such was the order and disposition of theBoeotians. On the Athenian side, the heavy-armed, being in num­ber equal to their enemies, were drawn up in one entire bodyof eight in depth. Their cavalry was posted on either wing.But light-armed soldiers, armed as was fitting, the Athenianshad none at this juncture, neither in the field nor in thp city.The number which had taken the field at first to attend thisexpedition exceeded many times over the number of theenemy ; but then most of them had no arms at all, since thesummons had been extended to all who resided in Athens,