OCR Output 506 PHIGALIX PUIGAUA. (Paus. viii. 39. §§ 4, ">.) In n.c, ."7:> Phi^aliawhh rent asunder by hostile tactions; and the sup­porters of the Lacedaemonian party, being expelledtrom tlie city, took possession ot' a fortress in Theneighbourhood named Heraca, from which they madeexcursions against Phigaltti. (l)iod, xv. 40.) Inthe wars between the Actolians and Achacans, Phi-pilia became for some time the head quarters of theAetoliaii troops, who from thence [(hindered Mes-senia, till they were at length driven out by Philip ',of Macedon. (Polyb. iv. 3, seqM 79, seq.) The iPhiffa leans possessed several peculiar customs, re- isj>cctiivz which Harmodius of Lepreuin wrote a specialwork. This author relates that tliey were piven toexcess both in eating and drinking, to which theircold and ungenial climate may perhaps have con­tributed. (Allien, iv. p. U9, X. [). 442.) Phigalia was still u place of importance whenvisited by Pausanias. He describes it as situatedupon a lofty and precipitous hill, the greater partof the wall.-, being built upon the rocks. Tliere arestill considerable remains of the ancient walls abovethe modern village of Pdvlitza. The city was up­wards of two miles in circumference. The rock,upon which it stood, slopes down towards the Neda;on the western side it is bounded by a ravine andon the eastern by the torrent Lymax, which flowsinto the Neda. The walls arc of the usual thick­ness, faced with masonry of the second order, andfilled in the middle with rubble. On the summitof the acropolis within the walls are the remains ofa detached citadel, SO yards in length, containing around tower at the extremity, measuring 18 feet inthe interior diameter. In ancient times a temple of jArtemis Sotcira stood on thp summit of the acnqwilis.On the slope of the mountain lay the gymnasium J.mil the temple of Dionysus Acratophorua ; and on |the ground below, where the village of upper Pav-'Viizti stands, was the agora,adorned with a statue ofthe pancratiast Arrachi"n, who lost his life in theOlviupic games, and with the sepulchre of the- Ores-thasians, who perished to restore the Phigaleans totheir native city. (Paus. mh. .'19. 6, 40. $ 1.) Upon a rock, difficult of access, near the union ofthe Lymax and the Neda, was a temple of Kurv-nome, supposed to be a surname of Artemis, whichwas opened only once a year. In the same neigh­bourhood, and at the distance of 1:2 stadia from thecily, were some warm baths, traces of which, ac­cording to the French Commission, are visible at thevillage of Tratfoi, but the waters have long ceasedto flow. (Pans. viii. 41. ^ 4, snj.) Phi gal ia was surrounded by mountains, of whichPausanias mentions two by name, Cotilium (t<!»KwtiAioi') and Klakum (rb 'EXdt'ov), the formerto the left of the city, at the distance of 30 stadia, and the latter to the right at the di^;^ nf $stadia. As Cotilium lies to the XE. of l^caiu,and Pausanias in this description stem to ftMlooked towards the east, Mt. Elaeum should prifttiiTbe placed on the opposite side of PhhaluL Mil cvc*-quently to the south of the Neda, in which aw dwould correspond to the lofty mountain at Ki.r*kMt. Kl;ieuir. contained a cavern Ntered to bVnwtothe lilaek. situated in a gTove of oaks. Of 1*1 po­sition of Mt. Cotilium there is no doubt On it msituated the temple of Apollo Lpicurius, *kn'n n»built in the Peloponnestan War by ktinus, tkartfei-tect of the Parthenon at Athens. It was uwitdWthe Pliigaleans in consequence of the rtwi afi'fWby Apollo during the plague in tlie Fel 'p<iD?siBWar, whence he received the surname of Lu^urimThe temple stood in a place called Ba;sat. tad lbcording to Pausanias excelled all the trtnHeJ 4Peloponnesus, except that of Athena A lea *: T^Min the beauty of the stone and the accuracy fl£4masonry. He particularly mentions that the Mwas of stone as well as the rest of the liti'm(Paus. viii. 41. §§ 7, 8.) This temple suUtwma"almost entire, and is next to the Thescium at A:i<athe best preserved of the temples of Gne». 1stands in a glen (whence the name Bo^ai, ft*for Bi]<j(Ti], B);t?(jai) near the summit d Ml 0tiliuin, in the midst of a wilderness oi r.*istudded with old knotty oaks. An eyt-*itn«imarks that "there is certainly no renuuuil <i tarchitectural splendour of Grtwe iik*t nklated to fascinate the imagination than thttta.^whether by its own size and beauty, by tin* ctfjnit offers to the wild desolation of the aorryaa*scenery, or the extent and variety of the prayfrom its site." (Mure, Tour in Gnrcc, rah a.270.) A spring rises about 10 minutes SW.rfltemple, and soon afterwards loses itself in the r**as Pausanias has described. North ofwas the highest summit of the mountain, whuaireaches in 10 minutes* time by a bread ru*ifstrutted by the Greeks. This summit «Cotilura (KcmAop), whence the whole mvJUfliaJrived the name of Cotilian; here va^ a ixrtiof Aphrodite, of which there are still mm tnThe grandeur of the ruins of the temple lav* cito the whole of the surrounding district the ~*athe Columns (arobi (rri'Aous or *coA6rroi*j.temple is at least two hours and a bait ii,-"Cruins of the city, and consequently more thaa40 stadia, which Pausanias mentions as tin aalfrom Phipilia to Cotilium; but this di»:ae<*haps applies to the nearest part uf the Bw*from the city. In modem times the temple remained lone or Vnexcept to the shepherd* of the country. O Q © QQ 0 "| • 9 m 1 Iff! f • uicoi'SD rus or the ti:mi i.k ok atcllo at i-.as&a_£.