OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 141 Cornelius was left in Samnium. Marcius returnedinto the city in triumph over the Hernicians; and adecree was passed for erecting to him in the forum anequestrian statue, which was placed before the temple' of Castor. To three states of the Hernicians (theAlatrians, Verulans, and Ferentines,) their own lawswere restored, because they preferred these to thebeing made citizens of Rome ; and they were per­mitted to intermarry with each other, a privilegewhich they alone, of the Hernicians, for a long timeafter, enjoyed. To the Anagnians and the others,who had made war on the Romans, was granted thefreedom of the state, without the right of voting ; pub­lic assemblies and intermarriages were not allowedthem, and their magistrates were prohibited from act­ing except in the ministration of public worship. Du­ring this year Cains Junius Bubulcus, censor, con­tracted for the building of a temple to Health, whichhe had vowed during his consulate in the war with theSamnites. By the same person and his colleague,Marcus Valerius Maximus, roads were made throughthe fields at the public expense. During the same yearthe treaty with the Carthaginians was renewed a thirdtime, and ample presents made to their ambassadorswho came on that business. 44. This year had a dictator in office, Publius Cor­nelius Scipio, with Publius Decius Mus, master of thehorse. By these the election of consuls was held, beingthe purpose for which they had been created, becauseneither of the consuls could be absent from the armies.The consuls elected were Lucius Postumius and TitusMinucius [A.U.C. 448. B.C. 304] ; whom Piso placesnext after Quintus Fabius and Publius Decius, omittingthe two years in which I have set down Claudius withVolumnius, and Cornelius with Marcius, as consuls.Whether this happened through a lapse of memory indigesting his annals, or whether he purposely passedover those two consulates as deeming the accounts ofthem false, cannot be ascertained. During this yearthe Samnites made incursions into the district of Stellae