OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 235 side, should quickly subdue all the neighboring places,and then immediately invest their city. They there­fore repaired the walls, and strengthened them withoutworks; every one exerting himself, in bringing infrom the country such things as were requisite forsustaining a long and powerful siege. Little mentionwas made of peace; very many advised that a deputa­tion should be sent to recall Hannibal; but the greaternumber were earnest for despatching the fleet, (whichliad been equipped for the purpose of intercepting theconvoys,) to surprise the ships stationed at Utica,where no attack was expected; alleging the probabi­lity that they might, at the same time, make them­selves masters of the naval camp, which had been leftwith a slight guard. This latter scheme met generalapprobation; but, at the same time, they determinedto call Hannibal home, because, should the fleet meetwith all possible success, Utica would, indeed, be re­lieved from some part of the pressure of the siege;but, for the defence of Carthage itself, there was nowno general remaining but Hannibal, and no army buthis. The ships were therefore launched on the follow­ing day; at the same time the deputies set out forItaly, and, the juncture being critical, every measurewas executed with the utmost despatch; each manthinking, that if he were in any degree remiss, he wasso far a betrayer of the public safety. Scipio led onhis forces by slow marches, as they were heavilyloaded with the spoils of many cities. After sendingthe prisoners and other booty to his old camp at Utica,directing his views to Carthage, he seized on Tunes,which was defenceless, the garrison having fled. Thiscity was very strong, both by nature and art: it maybe seen from Carthage, from which it is distant aboutfifteeu miles, and at the same time affords a prospectof that city and the adjacent sea. 10. The Romans, while busily employed in raisinga rampart at Tunes, descried the fleet which was steer­ing to Utica. On this the work was instantly dropped,and orders to march were issued. The troops set out