OCR Output 436 NILCS. NILVS. hippopotamus is represented on the monuments ofthe Thebaic], but not on those of Middle or LowerAegypt. The crocodile was caught with a hookbaited with the chine of a pig (Herod, ii. 68), orwith nets. (Diodor. i. 35.) It was an object ofworship in some uomes [Arsinoe; Omros], of ab­horrence in others [Tkntyra.] The boats of the Nile, as represented on the monu­ments, exhibit a great variety of size and form.There was the canoe, made of a single trunk; theshallop of papyrus, rendered water-tight by bitumen;and there were even vessels constructed of lightearthenware. (Juven. Sat. xv. 129.) The mostumuiI sjiecies of craft, however, is a boat whose bowand stem are high out of the water, square rigged,with sails either of canvass or papyrus, a singlemast that could he lowered in high winds, and ashallow keel, in order to allow of easy extrication ofthe vessel should it run aground. But the moststriking and capacious boat employed on the Nilewas the large Baris, used for the transportationof goods. (Herod, ii. 96.) It was built of thehard wood of the Sont (Acanthe); the sails weremade of papyrus, and the seams caulked with anoakum conijswcd from the fibres of that plant.These barges were propelled by as many as fortyrowers ranged on the same level, and their tonnageamounted to three, four, and even five hundredtons. These Bans wen1 towed up the stream, if thewind were not strong enough to impel them againstit, or floated down it, with combined action of sailand oars, and steered by one or more large paddlesat the stern. Parties of pleasure, visits of ceremony,and marriage processions, alike added to the floatingpopulation of the river; but perhaps the most im­pressive spectacles winch it presented were thepomp and circumstance of funerals. On the tombsof bpeos Artemidos (BenUtassan) is depicturedthe barge of Amenemhe conveying the femalesof his house. It has an awning like a gondola,and is one of the half-decked boats (tncdQai&*Aafirjyoi) of which Strabo speaks (xvii. p. 800).In such a vessel Caesar intended, but tor the indig­nant murmurs of his legions, to have ascended theNile with Cleopatra from Alexandria to the firstCataract. (Sueton. Jul. 58.) The tomb of RamesesIV. at Thebes exhibits a royal barge. The hall,the cabin (ddAafiot), the rudder, and the masts arepainted of a gold colour; the sails are diapered andfringed with various brilliant hues; the phoenix andthe vulture are embroidered upon them. The eyeof 0*iris is painted on the rudder, and its handlesrepresent the royal emblems—the uraeus and thepichtnt, or head of a divinity. The splendour of(he Bans on the monuments recalls that of the vesselwhich carried Cleopatra up the Cydnus to meetM. Antonius at Tarsus. (Plut. Anton, c. 26.)It was a favourite amusement of the Aegyptians,in later times especially, to row rapidly in boats,and hurl and thrust at one another as they passedblunt javelins or jeruls. Such a scene is repre­sented on the tomb of Im.it at Gizeh, one of theoldest monuments of Aegypt. They delighted alsoin trailing up and down the river-arm a and lakesof the Delta, and feasting under the shadow of thetall reeds, and Aegyptian bean, which there attainsa height of many feet. (Strab. xvii. p. 823, andgenerally Koselliui, Sfonwnenti Civili.) The Nile was also frequently the stage on whichthe great religious festivals or panegyrics werecelebrated. On such solemnities the population of entire nomes poured themselves forth- On theday of the feast of Artemis at Bu bast is tcinhabitants of the Delta thronged the canal* andmain streams, while thousands descended fromthe middle country and the Tbebaid to be j*e-sent at the ceremonies. The decks of the Bari*were crowded with devotees of either sex, and tieloud music of the pipe and cymbal was sceto-panied by songs and hymns, and clapping of hard*.As they neared any town the passengers ran the bargesalong shore and recruited their numbers with freshvotaries. As many as 700,000 persons, ear 1 wave ofchildren, were sometimes assembled at Buba±lK orat the equally popular festival of Isis at Bo-im.Numerous sacrifices were offered in the temples ofthe goddesses, and, whether in libations or to re­velry, more wine was consumed on the*e occasionthan in all the rest of the year. (Comp, Herod, a.61, 62, with Clemens Alexand. Cohort, vol. I p. IT.)That the Nile should have been an object of wor­ship with the Aegyptians, and that its una^e andphenomena should have entered deeply into theirwhole religious system, was unavoidable. A* re­garded its external aspect, it flowed between **s*\and rock, the sole giver and sustainer of lire tn thatvalley of death: it was, both in its increment and itsdecrease, in its course through vast solitudes, aidthronged populations alternately, the most sugre*u»sand expressive of emblems for a religi'o which re­presented in such marked contrast, the realm* trfcreation and destruction, of Osiris and Typh>».The Nile—as Oceanus, or the watery element —was a member of the first Ogdnad of the Acyrntiamtheology (Diodor. i. 6 — 26), the opponent of Phtah,the elemental fire, and the companion of the earth(Demeter), the air (Neith), Zeus or Atnun, thequickening spirit, Osiris and lsis, the Son andMoon. It was thus one of the primitive eaMorea,higher than any member of the second OgdaswL rr litvisible objects of adoration. (Heliod. Attkiop. ix.9; Schol. m Pwd. Pyth. iv. 99.) It had its osrnhieratic emblem on the monuments, sometimes asthe ocean embracing the earth, sometimes, a* In 'J*temple of Osiris at Philae, as the assistant >A Ptrufein the creation of Osiris. The wild crocodile vn anemblem of Typhon (Plutarch, /a. el Our. p. 371);but the tamed crocodile was the symbol of the restJyswelling, beneficent Nile. (Euaeb. Prorp. f'ramptiii. 11.) Osiris is sometimes, but ineorrectlv. «*/i(Tibull. EUg. i. 7, 27) to be the Nile it**lf'(rius.Is. et Osir. c. 33): there is no doubt, however, thatit was personified and received divine honour*. Afestival called Niloa was celebrated at the tirrw efthe first rise of the waters, i. e. about the tnouwsolstice, at which the priests were arcnsTt-aard t»drop pieces of coin, and the Roman prefect of theThebaid golden ornaments, into the river near rtriast(Senec. A'af. QuaeiL iv. 2, 7); indeed there nsasChave been a priesthood specially dedicated to thegreat river, Bince, according to Herodotoa (ii- \Q\\none but a priest of the Nile could burr the rerpeiof a person drowned in its waters. Templet wetrarely appropriated to the Nile alone; yet Be-cataeus (ap. Steph. s. r. N«tXof) speaks of one. feethe town of Ncilus, which stood iu the Heraclespolite nome, near the entrance of the feoww*. lathe quarries at SiUilU several utelae are in*«-nS»dwith acts of adoration to the river, who is joined »i;iPhrc and Phtah. Its symbol in hsrnyr* \k.tr» aread Moou, and the last in the group of the riisr.acters composing it, is a symbol of water. Aixeeduej