OCR Output 260 [BOOK Y«. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. he also made instruments of music, and taughtthe Levites to sing hymns to God, both onthe Sabbath day, and on the other festivals.Now the construction of the instrumentswas thus: the viol was an instrument often strings, played upon with a bow. Thepsaltery had twelve musical notes; and wasplayed upon by the fingers. The cymbalswere broad and large instruments, and weremade of brass. And so much shall suffice,respecting these instruments, that the readersmay not be wholly unacquainted with theirnature. Now all the men that were about Davidwere men of courage. Those that were mostillustrious and famous of them for their ac­tions were thirty-eight.* Of five of whom Iwill only relate the performances. For thesewill suffice to make manifest the virtues of theothers also: for these were powerful enoughto subdue countries, and conquer great na­tions. First therefore was Jessai, the son ofAchimaas; who frequently leaped upon thetroops of the enemy, "and did not leave offfighting till he overthrew fnine hundred ofthem. After him was Eleazar, the son ofDodo; who was with the king at Arasam:this man, when once the Israelites were undera consternation at the multitude of the Phi­listines, and were running away, stood aloneand fell upon the enemy, and slew many ofthem, till his sword clung to his hand by theblood he had shed; and till the Israelites,seeing the Philistines retire by his means,came down from the mountains, and pursuedthem: and at that time won a surprisingvictory: while Eleazar slew the men, andthe multitude followed and spoiled the deadbodies. The third was Sheba, the son ofIlus. Now this man, when in the warsagainst the Philistines, they pitched theircamp at a place called JLehi; and when theHebrews were again afraid of their army, Josephus's authority is beyond exception in these matters.Nor can any hypotheses of the moderns, that do not agreewith Josephus's characters, be justly supposed the truemetre of the ancient Hebrews. Nor is there, I think,any other original authority now extant, to be opposed tothese testimonies before us. That the ancient music ofthe Hebrews was very complete also, and had in it greatvariety of tunes, is evident by the number of their mu­sical instruments, and by the testimony of another mostauthentic witness, Jesus the son of Sirach: Ecclus. i. 18,who says, that at the temple, in bis days, the singers sang and did not stay; he stood alone as an army,and a body of men. And some of them heoverthrew, and some who were not able toabide his strength and force he pursued.These are the works of the hands and offighting, which these three performed. Now at the time when the king was onceat Jerusalem, and the army of the Philistinescame upon him to fight him, David went upto the top of the citadel, as we have alreadysaid, to inquire of God, concerning the battle;while the enemy's camp lay in the valley thatextends to the city Bethlehem, which isIjtwenty furlongs distant from Jerusalem.Now David said to his companions, "Wehave excellent water in my own city; espe­cially that which is in the pit near the gate;"wondering if any one would bring him someof it to drink: but he said, that he had ratherhave it than a great deal of money. Whenthese three men heard what he said, they ranaway immediately, and burst through themidst of their enemies' camp, and came toBethlehem; and when they had drawn thewater, they returned again through the ene­mies' camp to the king: insomuch that thePhilistines were so surprised at their boldnessand alacrity, that they were quiet, and did no­thing against them; as if they despised theirsmall number. But when the water wasbrought to the king, he would not drink it;saying, that it was brought by the danger andblood of men; and that it was not proper onthat account to drink it; but he poured itout to God, and gave him thanks for thesalvation of the men. Next to these wasAbishai, Joab's brother; who in one dayslew §six hundred. The fifth was Benaiah,by lineage a priest: for being challenged bytwo eminent men in the country of Moab,he overcame them by his valour: Moreoverthere was an Egyptian, who was of a vastbulk, and challenged him: yet did he, when praises with their voice, with great variety of sounds wasthere made sweet melody. * Thirty-seven, Heb. and Septuagint. t Eight hundred, 2 Sam. xxiii. 8. J See the note on V. 8.' II Bethlehem is here said to be but twenty furlongsfrom Jerusalem, whereas it is well known to be aboutforty-eight. This must be an error of the copies, not ofJosephus himself: who must have known that distancetoo well, to err above one half in its measure. § Three hundred, Heb. and Septuagint.