OCR Output 242 ROMAN EMPIRE. service was chastised with a blow by his new father.The blow was productive of a revolution. Romans(exclaimed the youth), once you were the masters of theworld, and these Burgundians the most abject of yourslaves. They now reign, these voracious and brutal sa­vages, and my injuiy is the commencement of your servi­tude.' The alarum-bell was rung to arms in everyquarter of the city; the Burgundians retreated with basteand shame; Marozia was imprisoned by her victoriousson; and his brother pope John XL, was reduced to theexercise of his spiritual functions. With the title ofprince, Alberic possessed above twenty years the go­vernment of Rome, and he is said to have gratified thepopular prejudice, by restoring the office, or at leastthe title, of consuls and tribunes. His son and heirOctavian assumed, with the pontificate, the name ofJohn XII.: like his predecessor, he wa"s provoked bythe Lombard princes to seek a deliverer for the churchand republic; and the services of Otho were rewardedwith the imperial dignity. But the Saxon was impe­rious, the Romans were impatient, the festival of thecoronation was disturbed by the secret conflict of pre­rogative and freedom, and Otho commanded his sword-bearer not to stir from his person, lest he should be as­saulted and murdered at the foot of the altar.1john0xii. Before he repassed the Alps, the emperor chas-. D. 967. tised the revolt of the people, and the ingrati­tude of John XII. The pope was degraded in a synod;the prefect was mounted on an ass, whipped throughthe city, and cast into a dungeon; thirteen of the mostguilty were hanged, others were mutilated or banished;and this severe process was justified by the ancientlaws of Theodosius and Justinian. The voice of fame i Romanorum aliqusndo servi, scilicet Burgundiones, Romania impereat? ..Roman;'.' urbis dignitas ad tantam est stultitiirn ductaf ut meretricum etiam im-perio pareat? (Liutprand, lib. 3. c. 12. p. 450.) Sigonius (lib. 6. p. 400.) po­sitively affirms the renovation of the consulship; but in the old writers Albericusis more frequently styled princeps Romanorurn. ; Ditmar, p. 354. apud Schmidt, torn. 3. p. 439.