OCR Output C. II.] THE CITY. 251 together with Josephus, and show themselves to the people ;upon which a great many fled to the Romans. These menalso got in a great number together, and stood before theRomans, and besought the seditious, with groans and .tearsin their eyes, in the first place, to receive the Romans entirelyinto the city, and save that their own place of residenceagain; but that, if they would not agree to such a proposal,they would at least depart out of the temple, and save theholy house for their own use; for that the Romans wouldnot venture to set the sanctuary on fire, but under the mostpressing necessity. Yet did the seditious still more and morecontradict them; and while they cast loud and bitter re­proaches upon these deserters, they also set their engines forthrowing of darts, and javelins, and stones, upon the sacredgates of the temple, at due distances from one another, inso­much that all the space round about within the temple mightbe compared to a burying-ground, so great was the numberof the dead bodies therein; as might the holy house itself becompared to a citadel. Accordingly, these men rushed uponthese holy places in their armor, that were otherwise unap­proachable, and that while their hands were yet warm withthe blood of their own people, which they had shed: nay,they proceeded to such great transgressions, that the verysame indignation which Jews would naturally have againstRomans, had they been guilty of such abuses against them,the Romans now had against Jews, for their impiety in re­gard to their own religious customs. Nay, indeed, therewere none of the Roman soldiers who did not look with asacred horror upon the holy house, and adored it, and wishedthat the robbers would repent before their miseries becameincurable. 4. Now Titus was deeply affected with this state of things,and reproached John and his party, and said to them —" Have not you, vile wretches that you are, by our permis­sion put up this partition-wall' before your sanctuary ? Havenot you been allowed to put up the pillars thereto belonging, 1 Of this partition-wall, separating Jews and Gentiles, with its pillars andinscription, sec the description of the temples, ch. xv.