OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 27V hind them the first-rank men, and closed the rear withthe veterans. He did not, as usual, form the cohortsin close order each before their own colors, but placedthe companies at some distance from each other, thatthere might be room to admit the elephants of theenemy, without disturbing the ranks. Laelius, whoformerly served under him as lieutenant-general, butthat year as questor, by particular appointment, inpursuance of a decree of the senate, he posted withthe Italian cavalry on the left wing; Masinissa andthe Numidians on the right. The openings betweenthe companies of the cohorts he filled up with light-armed troops, and gave them directions on the attackof the elephants, either to retire to the rear of the files,or, opening to right and left, to form along with thecohorts, so as to leave a passage for those beasts,through which they might advance exposed on bothsides to their weapons. Hannibal, in order to striketerror, placed his elephants in the front; of these therewere eighty (a number greater than he had ever beforebrought into the field); next to them the auxiliary Li-gurians and Gauls, with the Balearians and Moors in­termixed. In the second line he placed the Carthagi­nians, Africans, and the legion of Macedonians; andthen, leaving a moderate interval, he formed the lineof reserve, consisting of Italian soldiers, chiefly Brut-tians, a greater number of whom followed him on hisdeparture from Italy by compulsion and through ne­cessity, rather than from inclination. He also coveredthe flanks with cavalry, the Carthaginians being postedon the right, the Numidians on the left. Various werethe methods of encouragement made use of amongsuch a number of men, differing from each other inlanguage, in manners, in laws, in arms, in garb, intemper, and in their motives for engaging in the ser­vice. To the auxiliaries was held out present gain, andthat to be greatly increased by future plunder. TheGauls were inflamed by rousing their peculiar and na­tural hatred to the Romans. To the Ligurians, who hadbeen brought down from craggy mountains, the fertile