OCR Output O F R O M E. J4| feizing the Vcrlfcians, they conduced them to Romr, BOOKand there delivered them to the confuls, with inform- ^^ "^ation, that the Volfcians and Hernicians were pre- Y.R. xjj.paring to make war on the Romans. The affair being B. C. 493.laid before the fenate, the conduct of the Latines wasfo acceptable to the fenators, that they reftored tothem fix thoufand of the prifoners; and made anorder, befides, that the new magiftrates mould pro­ceed in the bufinefs relative to an alliance, a point,which had been almoft abfolutely refuted them.The Latines then highly applauded themfelves forthe part which they had acted, and the friends ofpeaceful meafures were held in high eftimation: they(ent to the Capitol, a golden crown, as a prefent toJupiter, and, together with the ambafladors and theprefent, came a great multitude of attendants, con-fifting of the prifoners who had been fent back totheir friends: thefe proceeded to the feveral houfesof the perfons, with whom each of them had been infervitude, returned thanks for their generous beha­viour and treatment of them, during the time oftheir calamity, and formed mutual connections ofhofpitality. Never, at any former time, was theLatine nation more clofely united to the Roman go­vernment, by ties both of a public and private na­ture. XXIII. BUT, befides being immediately threat­ened with a Volfcian war, the ftate itfelf was torn inpieces by inteftine animofities, between the Patri­cians and commons, on account principally of per-lons confined for debt *: thefe complained loudly, * If a debtor did not difcharge his debt, within thirty days after itwas demanded, he was fummoned before the praetor, who gave himup into the hands of the creditor. He was kept in chains by him torfixty days . and then, on ihree fucceflive market daya, was broughtto the prztor's tribunal, where a crier proclaimed the debt, and,fcmetimes, wealthy perfons redeemed the poor, by difcharging theirdebts; but, if that did not happen, the creditor, after tha third mar.kel day, had a right to Jell him, or keep hn..i ;i flave in his own liuuft.This flavery was afterwards charged mto public imprilbnment. that