OCR Output C. IX.] JERUSALEM. 135 when he heard that Galba was made emperor, he attemptednothing till he also should send him some directions aboutthe war: however, he sent his son Titus to him to salute him,and to receive his commands about the Jews. Upon the verysame errand did king Agrippa sail along with Titus to Galba:but as they were sailing in their long ships by the coasts ofAchaia, for it was winter-time, they heard that Galba wasslain before they could get to him, after he had reigned sevenmonths and as many days. After whom Otho took the go­vernment, and undertook the management of public affairs.So Agrippa resolved to go on to Rome without any terror,on account of the change in the government; but Titus, by adivine impulse, sailed back from Greece to Syria, and camein great haste to Caesarea, to his father. And now they wereboth in suspense about the public affairs, the Roman empirebeing then in a fluctuating condition, and did not go on withtheir expedition against the Jews, but thought that to makeany attack upon foreigners was now unseasonable, on accountof the solicitude they were in for their own country. 3. And now there arose another war at Jerusalem. Therewas a son of Giora, one Simon, by birth of Gerasa, a youngman not so cunning, indeed, as John [of Gischala,] who hadalready seized upon the city, but superior in strength ofbody and courage: on which account, when he had beendriven away from that Acrabattene toparchy which he oncehad by Ananus the high-priest, he came to those robbers whohad seized upon Masada. At the first they suspected him,and only permitted him to come with the woman he broughtwith him into the lower part of the fortress, while they dweltin the upper part of it themselves. However, his mannersso well agreed with theirs, and he seemed so trusty a man,that he went out with them, and ravaged and destroyed thecountry with them about Masada: yet when he persuadedthem to undertake greater things, he could not prevail with. them so to do; for as they were accustomed to dwell in thatcitadel, they were afraid of going far from that which wastheir hiding place: but he affecting to tyrannize, and beingfond of greatness, when he had heard of the death of Ananus