OCR Output CHAP. 2-. ROMAN HISTORY. 311 of the meanest commoner, but would effectually wrestevery shadow of power from them, to entail it upon thecommons. Wherefore, they received the news with joy, that theArdeates, in resentment of the judgment given againstthem in the property submitted, had abandoned thepartvof the Romans, that the Vejentes were laying waste thefrontiers of the Roman domains, and that the Volsci andJEqui were in motion, on account of the fortificationsraised at Virrugo: so much did they prefer even an un- ,successful war, to a dishonourable peace. Wherefore, upon these advices, which were much ex­aggerated, to drown the clamours'of the tribunes, withthe alarms of so many wars, the senate ordered the le­vies to be made, and preparations for war, with morekeenness, if possible, than in the consulship of T. Quinc-tius. -Then C. Canuleius declared, in a few words, infall senate, that they might save themselves the troubleof imposing on the people, by the terrors of war, to di­vert their attention from the new laws; for, while hehad breath, they would not enlist a man, until the law?proposed by him and his colleagues, were received; andthen went out directly and assembled the people. CHAP. II. , The Consuls remonstrate. ./\T this time,.the consuls used every argument to ex­asperate the senate against the tribune; who, on his part,inflamed the people against the consuls. The consulscontended, • That the madness of the tribunes was no• longer to be endured. That matters were now come'to an extremity. That the enemies without doors were'nothing, compared to those in their bosom. That thi*'evil was not to be imputed to the people, and their tri-'- hunesonly; the senators and consuls were even morecul-'pable.—That whatever is countenanced and rewarded ire•.' a city, gains ground and increases prodigiously. That'it was in this manner, our greatest statesmen and« generals were formed.—That in Rome, nothing was"now considered or rewarded but sedition, which. never