OCR Output 114 LUGDUNUM. LUGDUXUM BATAVOBUiL bidy of Alamanni (Ammian. Mircell. xvi. 11). Theplace is entitled Copia Claudia Augusta on someinscriptions, a name probably given to it in the timeof the emperor Claudius. In tho angle between the Arar and the Rhodanuswas the Ara Augusti, dedicated to Augustus by allthe Gallic state*. On this large altar there was aninscription which contained the names of the sixtystates; and there were as many figures, intended torepresent each state. If the figures were not re­liefs on the altar, they may have oven statues placedround the altar, or near iu The passage of Strabo(p. 192) appears to be corrupt; but, as it is ex­plained by tiroskurd (Trantl. Tol. i. p. 331). therewas also a large statue of Augustus, which mayhave been in tho middle of the sixty. There wasan annual solemn celebration at this altar, whichwas observed even when Dion Cassius was writing.(Dion, liv. 32 ) The time when this altar wasbuilt is fixed by the Epitome of Livy (Ep. 1.17) inthe year in which there was a disturbance in Galliaon account of the census. This year was n. c. 12.Suetonius. (Claud. 2) fixes the dedication of theAltar of Augustus in tho consulship of Julius An-tonius and Kabius Africanus (u. c. 10), on the firstof August, which was the birthday of the emperorClaudius, who was a native of Lugdunum. Thefirst priest of the altar was C. Julius Vcrcundari-dubius, an Aeduan. The celebration at the altar ofLugdunum is alluded to by Juvenal in the line(i. 44, and Heinrich's note), — "Aut Lugduiicnscin rhetor dictunis ad aram." Lugdunum was the seat of a Christian church atan early period. In the time of Marcus Aurelius(about A. n. 172, or jicrliaps a. i>. 177, according tosome computations) there was a furious per.-rcutionof the Christians at Lugdunum. The sufferings ofthe martyrs are told by K'isebius with some manifestabsurdities and exaggerations; but, the fact of acruel persecution cannot be disputed. The letter ofthe churches of Lugdunum and Vienna to thechurches of Asia and I'hrygia is preserved by Ku-sebius (Hist. Ercles. v. 1); and it states that Au­relius, who was then at Home, was consulted by theGallic governor about the treatment of the Christians.The answer was that those who confessed to beingChristians should be put to death, and that thosewho denied it shonld be set free. We have howeveronly one version of the story, though no excuse canbe made for the Homan philosophical emperor, ifmen were put to death only because they wereChristians. Ircnai-us, one of the Christian fathers,was bishop of Lugdunum. He is said to have suc­ceeded 1'othinus, who perished A. D. 177, in thereligious persecutions at I.ugdunum. The part of Gallia which Caesar called Celticsbecame under Augustus Gallia Lugduncnsis, ofwhich I.ugdunam was the capital; but Lngduncnsiswas contracted within narrower limits than Celtic*by the extension of the province of Aqnitania [Aqui •tasia ; Gallia Trass. Vol. I. p. 966]. The Romans covered the soil of Lyon with houses.temples, theatres, palaces and aqueducts. Naturemade it to 1* the site of a large city. Therearc few remains of Roman I.ugdunum. Time, theinvasion of the barbarian, and the employment ofold materials fur other purposes, have left only scantyfragments of the works of the most magnificent ofall city-builders. There are tome remains on theJ'laoc ict Mini net which are supplied to have been a theatre. On the west side of the Snont there aretraces of a camp capable of holding several legions.It was bounded ami defended on the west by thehills of the Forez, and on the north by the heightsof Saint-Diditr and of the Mont a"Or. The Saitedefended it on the east side. The camp had nowater, but the Romans found a supply in the chainof mountains which bounds it on the west. Waterwas brought along the valleys and the sides of th«hills in a regular slojie all the way, sod underground through a distance measured along its lineof more than 24 miles. In its course the aqueductcollected water from seventeen streams or Urgesources. The height of the channel or passage furthe water, measured inside, was near five fret; thevault or roof was semicircular. There were openingsat intervals by which workmen could go in to cleanand repair the channel. It was constructed withgreat care, and the two sides were covered with ftdouble layer of cement. All this construction wasburied in a cutting six feet ami a half wide andnear ten feet deep; and a great part of this ruttingwas made in the solid rock. Another aqneduet wasconstructed from Mont Pilot to the site of the hillof Foitrpiercs, a distance of more than 50 miles alongthe course of the aqueduct. There were in allfourteen aqueduct bridges along tins line: one ofthem at the village of Chnmp->no»t still has ninWyarches well preserved. There was a third aqueductfrom Mont <lOr. Two bronze tablets were du™ up at Lyon in 1529.on which is inscribed the Oratio of the emprrorClaudius on the subject of giving the Roman oiuusto the Galli. (Tacit. Ann. xi. 24: and Oberlin'aedition of Tacitns, vol. ii. p. 306; Gallia Trass.Vol. I. p. 968.) There are many modern works onLyon and its antiquities. The principal are men­tioned by Forbiger (flaiuJbuch, d-c. rid. iii. p.210.) [G. L.] COIS Or Lt'ODUNL-M. LUGDUXUM or CO'XVEXAE. [CoxrmiAi ]LUGDUNUM BATAVOKUM (Aovyatttr**,Ptol. ii. 9. § 4: Leiden). The two elements Lmgand dun appear in the name of this remote city aodin two other Gallic names, which is one evidence ofthe Celtic race having once occupied the flat countryabout the outlets of the Rhine. The Roman Itim.have marked a road running from Leiden tiirun;hCologne to Vemania (ImmenMtnJt) on the lYp*TDanube Circle of Bavaria. The routes are n < tl.«same all throngh, but the commencement of the n»dand the termination are the same. This route infact followed the basin uf the Rhine from th» Lot*of Conttanx to the low and sandy allures of tu»A'or th Sea. The words " Caput Oermaniarnm" placed befrrothe name Lugdunum in the Antonine ltin. probublydo not mean that it was the capital of the Gvntism-><-.for this was certainly n>t so, but tliat it was to*pant where the two proviikea called Germanise)commenced on this northern HmiL It has bern•apposed that Leiden in the province of Holland isnot the Roman Lugdunum, because no Roman re­mains hare been found there, though the absence of