OCR Output :* ITALIA ITALIA. banks of the Padus; so that Aritninnm (/?iWnf),where their lowest slopes 6ret descend to the sea­shore, is distant nearly 60 geo;. miles from themouth of that river, and it is almost as mnch morefrom thence to the foot of the Alps. It is this vastplain, together with the hill-country on each side ofit, formed by the lower slopes of the mountains, thatconstitnted the country of the Cisalpine G.tuls, towhich the Romans gave the name of Gal.ua Cisal-pika- The westernmost part of the same tract,including the upper basin of the Po, and the exten­sive hilly district, now called the Afon/errato, whichstretches from the foot of the Apennines to the southbank of the Po, was inhabited from the earliestperiods by Ligurian tribes, and was included inLiockia, according to the Roman use of the name.At the opposite extremity, the portion of the greatplain E. and N. of the Adigt (Athesis), as well asthe district now called the Friuli, was the land ofthe Veneti, and constituted the Roman province ofYknktm. The Romans, however, appear to haveoccasionally used the name of Gallia Cisalpina, in amore lax and general sense, for the whole of NorthernItaly, or everything that was not comprised withinthe limits of Italy as tliat name was understoodprior to the time of Augustus. At the presentday the name of /.ombtirdy is frequently applied tothe whole basin of the Pv, including both the properGallia Cisalpina, and the adjacent parts of Liguxiaand Veoetia. The name of Northers Italy may be con­veniently adopted as a geographical designation forthe name tract of country; but it is commonly under­stood ns comprising the whole of I.iguria, includingthe sea-coast; though this, of coarse, lies on the S.side of the dividing ridge of the Apennines. In thissense, therefore, it comprises the provinces of Liguria,Gallia Cisalpina, Venetia and Istria, and is limitedtowards the S. by the Macra (ilagrii) on the YV.coast, and by the Rubicon on that of the Adriatic.In like manner, the name of Ck.ntrai. Italy isfrequently applied to the middle portion, comprisingthe northern half of the peninsula, and extendingalong the W. coast from the mouth of the Macra tothat of the Silarus, and on the E. from the Rubiconto the Frento: while that of SoiTiiEiut Italy isgiven to the remaining portion of the peninsula,including Apulia, Calabria. Lncania, and brutlium.But it mast be borne in mind that these names aremerely geographical distinctions, for the convenienceof description and reference, and do not correspondto any real divisions of the country, either naturalor jtolitical. 2. Central. Italy.—The country to whichthis name is applied differs essentially from thatwhich lies to the N. of the Apennines. While thelatter presents a broad level basin, bounded on bothsides by mountains, and into which the streams andrivers converge from all sides, the centre of theItalian peninsula is almost wholly filled op by thebroad mass of the Apennines, the offsets and lateralbrandies of which, in some parts, descend quite tothe sea, in others leave a considerable interveningspace of plain or luw country: but even the largestof these level tracta is insignificant as compared withthe great plains of Northern Italy. The chain ofthe Apennines, which from the neighbourhood ofAriininum assumes a generally t-K. direction, is veryfir from being uniform and regular in its character.Nor ran it be regarded, like the Alps or Pyrenees,a* funning ou* continuous ridge, from which there branch off lateral arms or ranges, separated by deepintervening valleys. This is, indeed, the case, withtolerable regularity, on the eastern side of Lbsmountains, and hence the numerous rivers whichdescend to the Adriatic pursue nearly parallelcourses at right angles to the direction of the mainchain. But the central mass of the mountains,which comprises all tho loftiest summits of ListApennines, is broken up and intersected by deeplongitudinal valleys, sometimes separated only bynarrow ridges of moderate elevation, at others byrugged ranges rising abruptly to a height equal tothat of the loftiest summits of the chain. Thenumber of these valleys, occurring in the very heartof the Apennines, and often almost entirely enrlusedby the mountains, is a feature in the physicalgeography of Italy which has in all ages exerciseda material influence on its fortunes. The upland,valleys, with their fine summer pasturages, were anecessary resource to the inhabitants of the dryplains of the south; and the peculiar configuration ufthese valleys opened out routes through the beirtof the mountain districts, and facilitated mutualcommunication between the nations of the peninsula. It is especially in the southern part of the districtwe are now considering that the Apennines assumethis complicated and irregular structure. Uetwrenthe parallels of 44° and 42° 30' N. lat. they may U>regarded as forming a broad mountain chain, wliii h hasa direction nearly parallel with the line of coast of UmAdriatic, and the centre of which is nowhere dUtat tmore than 40 geog. miles from the shore of thatsea, while it is nearly double the same distan. e f. ..mthat of the Tyrrhenian. Hence there remain* onthe W. side of the mountains an extensive tract ofcountry, constituting the greater part of Etruria andthe & of Umbria, which is wholly distinct from themountain regions, and consists in part of fertileplains, in part of a hilly, but still by no meansmountainous, district. The great valleys of theAmo and the Tiber, the two principal rivers atCentral Italy, which hare their sources very nearone another, but flow the one to the W. the other tothe S., may be considered as the key to the geo­graphy of this part of the peninsula. Between themlies the hilly tract of Etruria, which, notwithstand­ing the elevation attained by some isolated luinn if.has nothing of the character ot a mountain country,and a largo part of which, as well as the jxrtions ct"Umbria bordering on the valley of the Tiber, maybe deservedly reckoned among the most fertile dis­tricts in Italy. South of the Tiber, again, the bnu.1volcanic plains of Latium expand between the Ala­nines and the sea; and though these are interruptedby the isolated group of the Alhan hills, and stillmore by the rugged mountains of the Volsciai.s,which, between Ttrracma and Gafto, descend quiteto the sea-shore, as soon as these are passed, themountains again recede from tlie ?ea-coast, and leavea considerable interval which is filled up by the luxu­riant plain of C-impama. Nothing can be more striking than the ruritratlpresented by different parts of the countries thuscomprised under the name of Central Italy. Thesnow still lingers in the upland pastures of Sunniomand the Abnari, wlwn the corn is nearly ripe inthe |Jains of the Roman Campagma. The elevateddistricts of the 1'rligiii, the Veslini, and the Marti,were always noted for their cold and cherrlraclimate, and were better adapted (ur pasturec* tiiaathe growth of corn. Kren at C'arseori, only 40 nub*