OCR Output Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 311 part of his magnanimity was extended tp the promotion of piety. iJ'' .j :','' s.tw CHAP. XXI. Of the [temple and'\ cities that were built by Herod, and erectedfrom the very foundations; as also of those other ed.if.ces thatwere erected by him: and what kiagnificence he shewed to fo­reigners ; and how fortune was in all things favourable to him. J 1. A CCORDINGLY, in the sixteenth year of his reign,JT\. Herod rebuilt the temple, and encompassed a piece ofland about it with a wall, which land was twice as large' as thatbefore inclosed. The expences he laid out upon it were vastlylarge also, and the riches about it were unspeakable. A sign ofwhich you have in the great cloisters that were erected about thetemple and*thecitadel which was on its north side. The cloistershe built from the foundation, but the citadel he repaired at a vastexpence; nor was it other than a royal palace, which he calledjtntonia, in honour of Antony. He also built himself a palacein the upper city, containing two very large and most beautifulapartments. To which the holy house itself could not be com*pared [in largeness]. The one apartment he named Ctesarevm,and the other Agrippiwn, from his [two great] friends. . . 2. Yet did he not preserve their memory by particular build­ings only, with their names given them, but his generosity wentas far as entire cities; for when he had built a most beautifulwall round a country in Samaria, twenty furlongs long, and hadbrought six thousand inhabitants into it, and had allotted to ita most fruitful piece of land, and in the midst of this city, thusbuilt, had erected a very large temple to Caesar, and had laidround about it a portion of sacred land of three furlongs and anhalf, he called the' city Sebaste, from Sebastus or Augustus, andsettled the affairs of the city after a most regular manner. 3. And when Caesar had further bestowed upon him anotheradditional country, he built there also a temple of white marble,hard by the fountains of Jordan: the place is called Panium,where is a top of a mountain that is raised to an immense height,and at its side, beneath, or at its bottom, a dark cave opens itself;within which there is an horrible precipice, that descends abrupt­ly to a vast depth; it contains a mighty quantity of water, which is * This fort was first built, as it is supposed, by John Hyrcanus. See Prid. atthe year 107. and called Saris, the tower or citadel. It was afterwards rebuilr,with great improvements, by Herod, under the government of Antonius, and wainamed from him the Tower efAnttmia; and about the time when Herod rebuiltthe temple, he seems to have put his last hand to it. See Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. v.«ect. 4, voL III. Of the war, B. I. ch. iii. sect. 4. It lay; on the north-west side ofthe temple,. and was a quarter as large.