OCR Output 278 [book VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. if any one would know the certainty aboutthem, he may desire of the keepers of thepublic records of Tyre to shew him them,and he will find what is there set down toagree with what we have said. I have saidso much out of a desire that my readers mayknow, that we speak nothing but the truth;and do not compose a history out of someplausible relations, which deceive men andplease them at the same time; nor attempt toavoid examination; nor desire men to be­lieve us immediately. Nor are we at libertyto depart from speaking the truth, which isthe proper commendation of an historian,and yet be blameless. But we insist uponno admission of what we say, unless we beable to maintain its truth by demonstrationand the strongest vouchers. Now king Solomon, as soon as this epistleof the king of Tyre was brought him, com­mended the readiness and good will he de­clared therein; and repayed him in what hedesired, and sent him annually twenty thou­sand cori of wheat; and as many baths of oil.Now the bath is equal to seventy-two sexta-ries. He also sent him the same measure ofwine. So the friendship between Hiram andSolomon hereby increased more and more;and they swore to continue it for ever. Andthe king appointed a tribute to be laid on allthe people, of thirty thousand labourers;whose work he rendered easy by prudentlydividing it amongst them. For he made tenthousand cut timber in mount Lebanon, forone month, and then come home, and resttwo months, until the time when the othertwenty thousand had finished their task atthe appointed time. And so afterwards itcame to pass, that the first ten thousand re- turned to their work every fourth month.And it was Adoram* who was over this tri­bute. There were also of the strangers leftby David, who were to carry the stones andother materials, seventy thousand; and ofthose that cut the stones, eighty thousand.Of these, three thousand and three hundredwere rulers over the rest. He also enjoinedthem to cut out large stones for the founda­tions of the temple, and that they should fitand unite them together in the mountain, andso bring them to the city. This was done notonly by our own workmen, but by thosewhom Hiram sent also. CHAP. III. OF THE BUILDING OF THE TEMPLE. SOLOMON began to build the temple inthe fourth year of his reign,f on thesecond month, which the Macedonians callArtemisius, and the Hebrews, Jar, five hun­dred and ninety-two years after the Exodusout of Egypt; but one thousand and twenty-two years from Abraham's coming out ofMesopotamia, into Canaan, and after thedeluge one Jthousand four hundred and fortyyears; and from Adam the first man who wascreated, until Solomon built the temple, therehad passed in all ||three thousand one hun­dred and two years. Now that year on whichthe temple began to be built, was already thetwelfth year of the reign of Hiram; but fromthe building of Tyre, to the building of thetemple, there had passed two hundred andforty years. Now, therefore, the king laid the founda­tion of the temple§ very deep in the ground,** * Adoniram, 1 Kings i. 14. t It may be asked why Solomon did not begin thebuilding of the temple sooner, and even in the first yearof his reign, since his father had left him a plan, and allthings necessary for the undertaking! Abarbinel's an­swer is,—That Solomon would not make use of what hisfather had prepared, but was resolved to build this templeall at his proper cost and charge. He therefore put intothe treasure of the Lord's house all that David had dedi­cated to the work; and, to gather together as much goldand silver as was necessary to defray so vast an expense,four years can be accounted no unreasonable time. Nay,even suppose that he had made use of the treasure whichhis father had amassed, yet, if the materials that his fatherhad provided lav at a considerable distance, and were leftrude and unf i^bioned, it would cost all this time to formthem into the exact symmetry, wherein the Scripture re­ presents them, before they were brought together, espe­cially considering, that the very stones which made thefoundation, were very probably vast blocks of marble, orporphyry, 1 Kings v. 17. and all polished in the most ex­quisite manner. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's An­notations. B. X 1989. II 3545. § Of the temple of Solomon, here described by Jose-phus, in tins and the following parts of this chapter, seemy description of the temples belonging to this work,chap. 13. In which yet, after all my pains, some diffi­culties still remain not fully accounted for; especially asto the description and contents of the ten lavers. Ofwhich, somewhat more presently, as also of a few otherdifficulties not there always taken notice of. ** The temple itself was indeed but a small edifice