OCR Output ROMA ROMA nil kmt limn, according to indications offeredIj '!.f Blare (if the ground. »> hen) from Cicero that Servius, like Romu-ta vol puided in the construction of his wall9 ike ratline of the hills: ** Cojos (urbis) is estrjcutu dnctnsque muri qaum Komuli tum etiam"*)»ffum regain sapientia definitus ex omni parte•ian preeropusque montibus, nt anus aditus, quiMl later Esquihnum Quirinalemque montem,uiw arrrre objecto fussa cingeretnr vastissima;:..;ue at iu nronita arx circnmjectu arduo et quasiTaiKita mxo niteretur, ut etiam in ilia tempestatembili GaUici adventua incolumis atque intacta - i-.-irit." (fit Rep. ii. 6.) Becker (deMurit,14, Hakdb. p. 129) asserts that Cicero here arcly oars that Servius erected walls only where ■ Rrrt Do bills, or across the valleys, and con-ifi that the greater part of the defences of* nir eoroiited of the natural ones offered bj'sills alone. Becker, however, appears tum limed no very clear ideas upon the subject; mitlieunduig what is here said, we find himl"» pjges farther on, conducting the line ofI w «ly along the height of the Quirinal, but ■• 'f the summit of the Capitolinc hill itself!M pp. 131, 136, de Murit, pp. 65, 70.)t^*r ha first, or theoretical, nor his second, orttul, view, is correct. The former is in di-I <ctradicuoa to his authority; for Cicero says - other kings did like Romulus; and he, asbm> tan, and as Becker himself has shown, Ued a his dry all round. Cicero says, as plainly» "a sptai, that there teas a wall, and that iti irtard along itt whole extent (" definitus exa (arte") by the line of the bills. If it did not i-iv Umr summit, we cannot explain Pliny's■•:.'•)) that the agger equalled the height ofvxfis("Kamque rum(aggerem) muris aequavit launt patebat (urbs) aditu piano: caeterou> erst praccelsis muris, aut abmptis montibus/'I asrt it would be a no great extolling of its:i 1 to ssy that it was raised to the level of a1 •* the valley. Cicero, however, notices two¥*i» to the continuous line, and the fact of hisSxr, these oat proves the continuity of the wallhj m.njer of the circuit. The first exception•srjter just mentioned, upon the top of which,r*. according to Dionysius (ix. 68), there» uo u> have been a sort of wall, though•ty !■* of so great a height as the rest, at Is uea the comparative when speaking of it: ■ «»vr«f>aj i''.*:■ .-( ,>.,»• (iv. 54). The secondr^"* was the Arx, or Capitoline hill, which,I • its western aide much more abrupt and'.*»» than the other hills, was considered ascvJIy defended by nature, with a little as-» from on m escarping its sides. That there»• rail at this spot is also proved, as Niebohr«k» (Hi*, vol i. p. 396) by the account ofetala sealing the height. (Liv. v. 47; comp. Class. Mm. voL Ui. p. 347.) The C*>lurrta-e. most have been the spot to whichMi alluded, when be said that Rome wasI irfmdsd by its hills, and partly by the Tiber»' ss well as Pliny in the passage just cited,'<t msM not infer from the plural (montibus)hi ?«aot more than one hill. This is merely,I fee. Taut also, a general mode of expression;'bare before observed that Pliny's own ac-'>hws that the wall crowned the bills. Lastly,loan ban as wall upon them, it is difficult to see how there could have been gates; yet we findBecker himself placing gates at spots where, ac­cording to his theoretical view, there could havebeen no wall. Niebuhr (L c), who, like Becker,does not confine the escarpment to the Capital, butthinks that the greater part of the city was fortifiedsolely by the steepness of its hills, places towers, w alls,and gates just at the different ascents; but thisview, improbable in itself, and unsupported by anyauthority, cannot be maintained against the expresstestimony of Cicero. There seems, however, to havebeen an interior fortification on the E. side of theCapitoline, protecting the ascent by the clitms, aswe shall see in the sequel. It was probably in­tended to secure the citadel, in case an enemy suc­ceeded in forcing the external walk. We have seenbefore that the hill was fortified by Romulus; butwhether these ancient fortifications, as well as thoseon the Palatine, were retained by Servius, it is im­possible to say. We may assume then that the wall of Servius,or his predecessor,—which seems to have been builtof stone ("muro lapideo," Liv. i. 15),—surroundedthe whole city, with the exception of the Capitolinehill and a small part defended by the Tiber,—thusjustifying the uoble lines of Virgil (Georg. ii.533.) :— "rcrum facta est pulcerrima RomaSeptcmque nna sibi muro circutndedit nrces." Our next task will be to determine the outline ofthis wall by means of the site of the different gates;though, of course, where the outline of the hills iswell defined this alone will be a guide. The situ­ation of two of the gates may be considered certain,—tliatof the Porta CoixiSA,at the N. extremity of theagger, and that of the Esquiline ut its southern end.Taking, therefore, the former as a starting-point, andproceeding continually to the left, we shall make thecircuit of the whole city, till we again arrive at thePorta Collina. This, the most northerly of all the gates, lay nearthe point where the Via Salaria branches off from theVia Nomentana. From this spot the first gate to theW. was probably the Porta Salutarls, so named, ap­parently, from its being on that division of the Qui­rinal which in the time of Numa and in the sacredbooks of the Argivea was called Collis Salularis,from an ancient sacellum of Saius which stood uponit (Varr. L.I.. v. § 51). When Paulus Diaconuatells us (p. 327, Mull.) that it was named after thetemple of Salus, he seems to be alluding to the laterand more famous temple dedicated by C. JuniusBubulcos in s. c. 303, which we shall have occasionto describe in the sequel: but it is probable that itobtained its name, as we have said, at a much earlierperiod. As the new temple probably stood at or neartho site of the ancient one, and as the Notitia in de­scribing the 6th Regio, or Alta Semita. takes thistemple for a starting point, and, proceeding always ina circuit to the left, arrives at last at the baths ofDiocletian, it may be assumed that this gate was thefirst important object westward of the baths. Itseems to have spanned a Clivus Salutis, which Ca-nina {Roma Antica, p. 187) places, with much pro­bability in the Via detle Quuttro Fimtane, w here itascends from the Piazza Barberina. (Cf. Preller,Regionen, p. 134.) The next gate to the left scorns to have been thePorta SA2iQt;ALis,so named from the temple of San­ctis. (Paul. JJiac. p. 345, Mull.) This was the same