OCR Output 452 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. month they returned to the city of Shiloh,where they had set up the tabernacle. Joshua now took both Eleazar, and thesenate, and with them the heads of the tribes,and distributed the land to the nine tribes,and to the half tribe of Manasseh; appointingthe dimensions according to the largeness ofeach tribe.* So when he had cast lots, Judahhad assigned him by lot, the upper part ofJudea, reaching as far as Jerusalem, and itsbreadth, extending to the lake of Sodom; andthe lot of this tribe included the cities of As-calon and Gaza. The lot of Simeon, whichwas the second, comprehended that part ofIdumea, which bordered upon Egypt andArabia. As to the Benjamites, their lot fellso, that its length reached from the river Jor­dan to the sea; but in breadth, it was boundedDy Jerusalem and Bethel; and this lot wasthe narrowest of all, by reason of the good­ness of the land; for it included Jericho, andthe city of Jerusalem. The tribe of Ephraimhad the land that extended in length, fromthe river Jordan, to Gezer; but in breadth,as far as from Bethel to the great plain. Thehalf tribe of Manasseh had the land from Jor­dan, to the city of Dora; but its breadth wasat Bethshan, which is now called Scythopolis.And after these was Issachar, which had itslimits, in length, mount Carmel and the river;but its limit, in breadth, was mount Tabor.The tribe of Zabulon's lot included the landwhich lay as far as the lake of Gennesareth,and that which belonged to Carmel and thesea. The tribe of Aser had that part whichwas called The Valley, for such it was; andall that part that lay over against Sidon. Thecity Arce belonged to their share, which isalso named Actipus. The Naphthalites re­ceived the eastern parts, as far as the city ofDamascus, and the Upper Galilee, unto mountLibanus, and the fountains of Jordan, whicharise out of that mountain: that is, out of thatpart of it, whose limits belong to the neigh­bouring city Arce. The Danites' lot includedall that part of the valley which respects thesun-setting, and were bounded by Azotus andDora; they also had all Jamnia and Gath,from Ekron to that mountain where the tribeof Judah begins. After this manner did Joshua divide the six * If I were writing to the learned, I must have madeparticular notes on this and the rest of Josephus's geogra- nations that bear the names of the sons of Ca­naan, with their land, to be possessed by thenine tribes and a half; for Moses had pre­vented him, and had already distributed theland of the Amorites, which was so calledfrom one of the sons of Canaan, to the twotribes and a half, as we have shewed already;but the parts about Sidon, as also those thatbelonged to the Arkites, the Amathites, andthe Arabians, were not yet regularly dis­posed of. But now Joshua was hindered by his age,from executing what he intended, and thosewho succeeded him in the government tooklittle care of what was for the advantage ofthe public; so he gave it in charge to everytribe to leave none of the race of the Canaan-ites in the land that had been divided to themby lot; for, that Moses had assured them be­forehand, and they might rest fully satisfied,that their own security, and their observanceof their own laws depended wholly upon itHe also enjoined them to give thirty-eightcities to the Levites, for they had alreadyreceived ten in the country of the Amorites;and three of these he assigned to fugitiveman-slayers, who were to inhabit there, for hewas very solicitous that nothing should beneglected which Moses had ordained. Thesecities were. of the tribe of Judah, Hebron;of that of Ephraim, Shechem; and that ofNaphthali, Cadesh, which is a place of theUpper Galilee. He also distributed amongthem the rest of the prey not yet distributed,which was very great, whereby they had anaffluence of great riches, both all in general,and every one in particular; and this of gold,vestments, and other furniture, besides amultitude of cattle, whose number cannot betold. After this he gathered the army together,and spake thus to those tribes that had theirsettlement in the land of the Amorites beyondJordan; for fifty thousand men of them hadarmed themselves, and had gone to the waralong with them: "Since that God, who isthe Father and Lord of the Hebrew nation,has now given us this land for a possession,and promised to preserve us in the enjoymentof it as our own for ever; and since you havewith alacrity offered yourselves to assist us, phy of Canaan; but in this version it shall suffice to referthe English reader to my map of Palestine.