OCR Output 90 ITALIA. ITALIA. jttnple, belonged nil those nations that had submittedto Hume upon any other terms than those of citizen­ship; and the treaties (foedera), which determinedtheir relations to the central power, included almostevery variety, from a condition of nominal equalityand independence (aequum foedus), to one of themitat complete subjection. Thus we find Heracleain Lucania, Neapolis in Campania, and the Camertesin LTmbria, noticed as possessing particularly tavour-able treaties (Cie. pro Bulb. 8, 20, 22); and evensome of the cities of Latium itself, which had notreceived the Horn an civitas, continued to maintainthis nominal independence long after they had be­come virtually subject to the power of Rome. Thus,even in the days of Polybius, a Roman citizen mightretire into exile at Tibur or Praeneste (Pol. Ti. 14;Liv. xliii. 2), and the poor and decayed town ofLaurentum went through the form of annuallyrenewing its treaty with Koine down to the clti.se ofthe Republic. (Liv. viii. 11.) Nor was this in­dependence merely nominal: though politically de-juMidenl upon Rome, and compelled to fellow her leadin their external relations, and to furnish their eon-tingent of troop* for the wars, of which the dominantrepublic alone reaped the benefit, many of the citiesof Italy continued to enjoy the absolute control oftheir own affairs and internal regulations; the troopswhich they were bound by their treaty to furnishwere not enrolled with the legions, but fought undertheir own standards as auxiliaries; they retainedtheir own laws as well as courts of judicature, and,even when the Lex Julia conferred U]«>n ail theItalian allies the privileges of the Roman civitas, itw as necessary that each city should adopt it. by anact of its own. (Cic. pro Balb. 8.) Nearly in thesame position with the dependent allies, howeverdifferent in their origin, were the so-called '* ColoniaeLatiuae;'" that is, Roman colonies which did notenjoy the rights of Roman citizenship, but stood inthe same relation to the Roman state that the citiesof the Latin League had formerly done. The namewas, doubtless, derived from a period when thesecolonies were actually sent out in common by theRomans and Latins; but settlements on similarterms continued to be founded by the Romans alone,long after the extinction of the Latin League; and.before the Social War, the Latin colonies includedmany of the most flourishing and important townsof Italy. (For a list of them, with the dates oftheir foundation, see Madvig, de Coloniis, I. e.;Motnmsen, ROmische Mum-Wesen, pp. 230—234:and Marquardt, /. c. p. 33.) These colonies arejustly regarded by Livy as one of the main supportsof the Republic during the Second Runic War (Liv.xxvii, 9, 10), and, doubtless, proved one of the mosteffectual means of consolidating the Roman dominionin Italy. After the dissolution of the Latin League,B. c. 338, these Latin colonies (with the few citiesof Latium that, like Tibur and Praeneste, still re­tained their separate organisation) formed the "no-men Lat num." or body of the Latins. The closeconnection of these with the allies explains the fre­quent recurrence of the phrase ** socii et nomenLatinum" throughout the later books of Livy, andin other authors in reference to the same period. A great and general change in the relations pre­viously subsisting between the Italian states andRome was introduced by the Social War (it. c. 90—89). and the settlement which took place in conse­quence of it. Great as were the dangers with whichRome was threatened by the formidable coalition of those who had so long been her bravest defenders,they would have been stiil more alarming had thewhole Italian people taken part in it. But the aiile*who then rose in anus against Rome were almostexclusively the Sabellians and their kindred races.The Etruscans and Umbrians stood aloof, while lh<?Sabines, Latins, VoUcians, and other tribes who badalready received the Roman fninclii.se, supported theRepublic, and furnished the materials of her armies.But the senate hastened to secure those who werewavering, as well :ls to disarm a portion at least utthe openly disaffected, by the gift of the Romanlranchise, including the full privileges of citizen*:and this was subsequently extended to every one ufthe allies in succession as they submitted. Then;is some uncertainty as to the precise steps by whichthis was effected, but the Lex Julia, passed in theyear 90 B.C., appears to have conferred the franchiseupon the Latins (the "nomen Latinum," as abovedefined) and all the allies who were willing to acceptthe boon. The Lex Plautia Papiria, pissed thefollowing year, b. c. 89, completed the arrangementthus begun. (Cic. pro Bulb. 8, pro Arch. 4 ; A.Gell. iv. 4; Appian, B. C. i. 49; Veil. Pat. ii. 16.) By the change thus effected the distinction be­tween the Latins and the allies, as well as betweenthose two classes and the Roman citizens, was entirelydone away with ; and the Latin colonies lapsed intothe condition of ordinary municipia. At the sametime that all the free inhabitants of Italy, as theterm was then understood (i. e. Italy S. of the Macraand Rubicon), thus received the full rights of Romancitizens, the same boon was granted to the inhabit­ants of Gallia Cispndana, while the Transjudauiappear to have been at the same time raised to thecondition and privileges of Latins, that is to say,were placed on the same footing as if all their townshad been Latin colonies. (Ascon. in Puon. p. 3, ed.Orell.; Savigny, Vennischte Schrifteny vol. in. pp.290—308 ; Marquardt, J/undb. vol. in. pt. i. p. 48.)'This peculiar arrangement, by which the Jus Laliiwas revived at the very time that it became naturallyextinct in the rest of Italy, is more fully explainedunder Gallia Cisam'LNa. In B. C. 49, after theoutbreak of the Civil War, Caesar be.stuwod the fullfranchise upon the Tratisjadani also (Dion Cass,xli. 36); and from this time all the free inhabitant*of Italy became united under one common cla>s ascitizens of Rome. The Italians thus admitted to the franchise wereall ultimately enrolled in the thirty-five Rom.mtribes. The principle on which this was done weknow not; but we learn that each munic ipiuni. andsometimes even a larger district, was assigned to aparticular tribe: so that every citften of Arpinum.for instance, would belong to the Cornelian tribe, ofBeneventum to the Stellatine, of Brixia to the Fa­bian, of Ticinum to the Papian, and so on.* Bat inso doing, all regard to that geographical distributionof the tribes which was undoubtedly kept in viewin their first institution was necessarily lost ; andwe have not sufficient materials for attempting todetermine how the distribution was made. A know­ledge of it must, however, have been of esstntulini]>ortance so long as the Republic continued ; and * This did not, however, interfere with the per­sonal right, where this previously existed, so that aRoman citizen already belonging to another tribe,who settled himself in any municipiuxn, retained bisown tribe.