OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 15 instruments of their victories, but of the missile weapons,which they were too much inclined to neglect; ascl thelively image of war was displayed in the daily exerciseand annual reviews of the Gothic cavalry. A firm thoughgentle discipline imposed the habits of modesty, obe­dience, and temperance; and the Goths were instructedto spare the people, to reverence the laws, to understandthe duties of civil society, and to disclaim the barbarouslicence of judicial combat and private revenge.' Among the barbarians of the west, the victory of The- pXyofodoric had spread a general alarm. But as soon as it ap- 'fiisodoric.peared that he was satisfied with conquest, and desirousof peace, terror was changed into respect, and they sub­mitted to a powerful mediation, which was uniformlyemployed for the best purposes of reconciling their quar­rels and civilizing their manners.11 The ambassadorswho resorted to Ravenna from the most distant countriesof Europe, admired his wisdom, magnificence,1 and cour­tesy; and if he sometimes accepted either slaves or arms,white horses or strange animals, the gift of a sun-dial, awater-clock, or a musician, admonished even the princesof Gaul, of the superior art and industry of his Italiansubjects. His domestic alliances,™ a wife, two daughters,a sister, and a niece, united the family of Theodoric withthe kings of the Franks, the Burgundians, the Visigoths,the Vandals, and the Thuringians; and contributed tomaintain the harmony, or at least the balance, of thegreat republic of the west." It is difficult, in the dark 1 The view of the military establishment of the Goths in Italy, is collected fromthe Epistles of Cassiodorins. (Var. 1.24. 40. 3. 3. 24. 48. 4. 13,14. 5. 26,27. 8. 3.4. 25.) They are illustrated by the learned Mascou. (Hist. of the Germans, lib. 11.40—44. annotation 14.) k See the clearness and vigour of his negotiations in Ennodios (p. 1607.) andCassiodorins (Var. 3. 1—4. 4. 13 5. 43. 41.) who gives the different styles offriendship, counsel, expostulation, &c. 1 Even of his table (Var. 6. 9.) and palace (7. 5.) The admiration of strangers isrepresented as the most rational motive to justify these vain expenses, and to stimu­late the diligence of the officers to whom those provinces were intrusted, m See the public and private alliances of the Gothic monarch, with the Burgundians,(Var. 1. 45, 46.) with the Franks, (2. 40.) with the Thuringians, (4. 1.) and with theVandals. (5. 1.) Rach of these epistles affords some curious knowledge of the policyand manners of the harharians, "ilis political system may be observed in Cassiodorius, (Var. i. 1. 9.1.) Jornandes,