OCR Output aw. 896.] 323 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tion into that country which belonged to hiskingdom: at which news he was affrighted,and called the people of Jerusalem to a con­gregation in the temple.* And standing overagainst the temple itself, he called upon Godto afford him power to inflict punishmentupon those invaders; for that those who builthis temple had prayed that he would protectthat city, and take vengeance on those thatwere so bold as to come against it. When henad prayed thus, he was affected even totears; and the whole multitude, togetherwith their wives and children, made theirsupplications also. Hereupon a certain pro­phet, Jahaziel by name, came into the midstof the assembly, and cried out, both to themultitude and to the king, that God heardtheir prayers, and promised to fight againsttheir enemies. He also gave order, that theking should draw his forces out the next day;for that he should find them between Jeru­salem, and the ascent of Engedi; at a placecalled Eminence;f and that he should notengage their forces, but only stand still, andsee how God would fight against them. Whenthe prophet had said this, both the king andthe multitude fell upon their faces, and gavethanks to God, and worshipped him, and theLevites continued singing hymns to God, withtheir instruments of music. As soon as it was day, and the king wascome into that wilderness which was underthe city of Tekoa, he said to the multitude,that they ought to give implicit credit to whatthe prophet had said; and not to set them­selves in array for fighting; but to set thepriests, with their trumpets, and the Levites,with the singers of hymns, to give thanks to God, as having already delivered the countryfrom its enemies. This opinion of the kingpleased the people, and they did as he de­sired. So God caused a terror and commo­tion to arise among the Ammonites;J whothought one another to be enemies, and slewone another; insomuch that not one man outof so great an army escaped. And whenJehoshaphat looked upon that valley whereintheir enemies had been encamped, and sawit full of dead men, he rejoiced at this surpri­sing assistance of God; who by his ownpower, and without their labour, had giventhem the victory. He also permitted hisarmy to take the prey of the enemies' camp,and to spoil their dead bodies; and indeedso they did for three days together, till theywere weary; so great was the number ofthe slain. And on the fourth day, all thepeople were gathered together unto a certainhollow place, or valley, and blessed Godfor his power and assistance; from which theplace was called the valley of Berachah orBlessing.|| When the king had brought his army backto Jerusalem, he celebrated festivals andoffered sacrifices for many days. And indeedafter the destruction of his enemies, and whenit came to the ears of the foreign nations, theywere all greatly affrighted; as supposing thatGod would openly fight for him hereafter.So Jehoshaphat from that time lived in greatglory and splendour, on account of his righte­ousness and his piety towards God. He wasalso in friendship with Ahab's son,§ who wasking of Israel; and he joined with him in thebuilding of ships that'were to sail to Pontusand the commercial cities of Thrace;** but * 2 Chron. xx. 3, 4. t The cliff of Ziz, 2 Chron. xx. 16. j The words in the text are, The Lord set ambushmentagainst the children of Amnion, Moab, and mount Seir,which were come against Judah, and they were smitten,2 Chron. xx. 22. And there are two ways wherein theslaughter may be supposed to have happened: either,1st. By the ministry of God's angels, who might appearin the shape of men, and putting on the appearance ofMoabites or Ammonites, might smite some part of thearmy privately, and they supposing this to be done bytheir neighbours, might turn about and fall upon themlike enemies, and so break forth into mutual slaughters.Or 2d. By some jealousies and animosities among them­selves, which by degrees brake forth, first into secretambushments, which one party laid for another, and theninto open hostilities and outrages to their total destruction. TOL. I.—NOS. 27 & 28. So easy a thing it is for God to defeat his enemies, whocan, when he pleases, infatuate their designs, or arm theirown passions and mistakes against them. Pool's Annota­tion on 2 Chron. xx. 22. B. II 2 Chron. xx. 26. § This certainly was a great weakness in him, to makefriendship with the son, when he had been so sharply re­proved for joining with his father Ahab, especially sincethe son was as great an idolater as his father; but untothis he was betrayed by the affinity that was betweenthem; and though he did not join with him in war, butonly in trade, yet God was nevertheless displeased withhim; which shews how dangerous a thing it is to havetoo near a familiarity or commerce with idolaters, or anyother very wicked men. Patrick's Commentary. B. ** What are here Pontus and Thrace, as the placeswhither Jehoshaphat's fleet sailed, are in our other copies 3L