OCR Output MAARATH. MACEDONIA. 213 metropolis. It U not now certain where it stood,but some have identified it with Tamantadawe.Some MSS. read Naagrammum, but Maagrammummust be correct, as its form shows its Sanscrit origin.Lassen has supposed it stood at the SE. end of theisland, and that its ancient name was Maha-grama. [V.] MAARATH, a city of Jndah situated in themountains, mentioned only in the list in the bookof Joshua (xv. 59). Rcliind (PaheM. s. v. p. 879)suggests that & lofty mountain, Mardes, nearthe Dead Sea, may hare derived its name from thiscity. [G. W.] MAARSARES. [Babylonia, p. 362, a.] MABOG. [Hierafoms.] MACAE (MaVcu). a people of Arabia mentionedby Ptolemy (vi. 7. § 14), immediately within thePersian Gulf, as inhabiting the shores of the ex­tensive bay of the Fish-eaters ClxBvoQdywv fcdAirot).They occupied apparently the western shore of CapeMiaseldom, as Pliny (vi. 26) states that the widthof the strait from the promontory of Carmania tothe opposite shore and the Macae, is 50 miles.They were bounded on the east by the Naritae (Na-pttTOi) [Epimakanitae]. Mr. Forster considersthe Macae of Ptolemy is a palpab'e contraction ofthe Naumachaci of Pliny, and that this tribe is re-ri'vered in the Jowaser Arabs, the most famouspirates of the Persian Gulf. {Geoff, of Arabia,voL ii. p. 225.) It is clear that the "Nanma-chaeornm promontorium" of Pliny (vi. 32) isidentical with the modern Cape Musseldom, atwhich he places the Macae. (Conip. Strabo, p.765.) He mentions a remarkable story in con-De-lKm with this place: that Numenius, who hadbeen appointed prefect of Mesenaby King Antiochus,pained a naval victory over the Persians, and onthe same day, on the tide receding, conquered themin a cavalry engagement, and erected on the same•pot two trophies,—one to Neptune, the other toJupiter. [G. W.] MACAE (Miitoi), one of the aboriginal tribes ofthe KVgio Syrtica. on the N. Coast of Libya, on theriver Cinyps, according to Herodotus, who describestheir customs (iv. 175; comp. Scvl.p. 46; Diod. iii.48:Plin. vi.23. s. 26; Sil.iii 275; Ptol. iv. 3. § 27,calls them Mcuraibi or Maicai, 2upT?icat). Polybitumentions Maccaei in the Carthaginian army. (Pol.in. 33.) [P. S.] MACAI.LA (MairaAAa), an ancient city ofBruttium, where, according to Lycophron, was thesepulchre of Philoctetes, to whom the inhabitantspaid divine honours. (Lycophr. Alex. 927.) Theanth.r of the treatise De JMirabfflbta, ascribed toAristotle, mentions the same tradition, and adds thatthe hero had deposited there in the temple of ApolloBaHas the bow and arrows of Hercules, which had,however, been removed by the Crotoniats to thetemple of Apollo in their own city. We learn fromtins auth r that Macalla was in the territory ofCmtnoa, about 120 stadia from that city; but itsp^itiwi cannot be determined. It was doubtless an'Vnotrian town: at a later period all trace of itdisappears. (I'send.-Arist. dr. Mirab. 107; Steph.B. a r. ; Schol. ad Lycophr. I c.) [E. H. B.] MACAMTAK. [Macrrtama.] MACABAS. [Bkaoadas.] MACATtKAE (Maicapeai; F.th. Moitapifi)!), at/miof Arcadia, in the district Parrhasia. 22 stadiaf"*n M^alopolia. on the road to Phigaleia, and 2•tajia truui the Alpheius. It was in ruins in the time of Pansanias, as its inhabitants had been re­moved to Megalopolis upon the foundation of thelatter. (Paus. viii. 3. § 3, viii. 27. § 4, viii. 36,§ 9; Steph. B. s. r.) MACA'KIA (MaKapta, Ptol. v. 14. § 4), a townon the N. coast of Cyprus, E. of Ceryneia. (Engel,Kypros, vol. i. p. 83.) [E. B. J.] MACA'RIA (Moiton(a), that is, "the blessed(island),'* a name given by the poets to severalislands, such as Cyprus, Lesbos, and Rhodes;but also occurs as a proper name of an island in tliesouth of the Arabian gulf, a little to the nortli ofthe gulf of Adule. [L. S.] MACATUTAE (MoKOToi>To»), a people in theextreme W. of Cyrenaica, on the border of the pro­vince of Africa, above the Velpi Montes. (Ptol. iv.4. § 10.) [P. S.] MACCHURE'BI. [Maiirktaj-ia.] MACCOCALINGAE. [Caungae.] MACCU'RAE. [Maoretania.] MACEDO'NIA (jj McuttSuWa), the name appliedto the country occupied by the tribes dwelling north­ward of Thcssaly, and Mt. Olympus, eastward of lliochain by which Pindus is continued, and westwardof the river Axius. The extent of country, indeed,to which the name is generally given, embraces laterenlargements, but, in its narrowest sense, it was avery small country, with a peculiar population. I. Name, race, and original seats. The Macedonians (MaxeooVej or WlaicnMvts),as they are called by all the ancient poets, and in thefragments of epic poetry, owed their name, as itwas said, to an eponymous ancestor; according tosome, this was Macednus, son of Lycaon, fromwhom the Arcadians were descended (Apollod. iii.8. § 1), or Macedon, the brother of Magnet), or a souof Aeolus, according to He-iod and Hellanicus (ap.Const. Porph. de Them, ii. 2; comp. Aelian. //. A.x. 48; Eustath. ad IHon. P. 247; Steph. B).These, as well as the otherwise unsupported state­ment of Herodotus (i. 56), of the original identity ofthe Doric and Maceduiau (Macedonian) peoples, aremerely various attempts to form a genealogical con­nection between this semi-barbarous people and therest of the Hellenic race. In the later poets, theyappear, sometimes, under the name of Macetae(Sil. Ital. xiii. 878, xiv. 5, xvii, 414, G32; Stut,Sil. iv. 6. 106; Auson. de Clar. Urb.ii.O; Cell, x.3). And their country is called Macetia (MaK€Tia,Hesych. s. v.; Eustath. ad Dion. P. I. c). In the fashion of wearing the mantle and ar­ranging their hair, the Macedonians bore a greatresemblance to the Illyrians (Strnb. vii. p. 327), butthe fact that their language was different (Polyb.xxviii. 8) contradicts the supposition of their Illv-rian descent. It was also different from Greek, butin the Macedonian dialect there occur many gram­matical forms which are commonly called Aeolio,together with many Arcadian and Thcssalian words;and what perhaps is still more decisive, severalwords which, though not found in the Greek, havebeen preserved in the Latin language. (Comp.Miiller, Dorians, vol. i. p. 3, trans.) The ancientswere unanimous in rejecting them from the trueHellenic family, but they must not be confoundedwith the armed plunderers—Illyrians, Thracians,and Epirots, by whom they were surrounded, as theyresemble more nearly the Thcssalians, and otherruder members of the Grecian name. These tribes, which differed as much in ancient