OCR Output bOOk v. 429 11. Sexaginta pedes. Al. sexagenos. But the distribute on is re- 22Qquired only in the valleys: centenos vicenosque ss a hundred andtwenty feet in each. 13. Procul.... pares. Appearing of equal height (whetheron higher or lower ground) to those who beheld them from a distance. 14r. Regiae. Built by Herod on Mount Zion. Cf. Joseph. Ant.J. 1, 20, 7.—Turris. Arx potius dicenda quam turris. In ea enimatria, balneae, aulae; ipsaque in angulis cincta quatuor aliis turribus.Brotier. Ch. XII.—16. Proprii muri, sc. templo sunt: it has walls of itsown, besides those which encompass the whole city. Cf. note, 8 pri-mis .... clausum.—Lahore ad magnitudinem murorum, opere adeorundem qualitatem et artem referendum est. Dod. 18. Fous perennis. Jerusalem has always been found to possessan inexhaustible supply of water for the most protracted siege, evenwhen the besieging armies, as for instance that of the crusaders, havesuffered intolerably from thirst. A mystery still overhangs the sourceof this supply. Large cisterns are known to exist. But "there isalso good ground to believe, that there has also been from very ancienttimes an unfailing source of water derived by secret and subterraneanchannels from springs to the west of the town, and communicating byother subterraneous passages with the pool of Siloam and the fountainof the Virgin in the east of the town." Cf. Kitto's Cyclopasdia, art.Jerusalem, Waters of; Strab. Geog. 16, 2, 40. 19. Cavati.... montes, i. e. the mountains, on which the citywas built, were scooped out into subterranean caverns. These wereused for places of concealment, as well as for cisterns of water. Cf.Xiph. 66, 4 ; Ammian. Marcel. 19, 5, 4. Here as usual T. avoids thetechnical expression, specus subterranei.—Piscinae cisternaeque. Im­mense cisterns of great antiquity still exist within the area of the tem­ple, supplied partly by rain-water and partly by an aqueduct fromSolomon's pools, and which of themselves would furnish a tolerablesupply in case of a siege. Cf. Bib. Cyclop., art. Cisterns. See alsofor many interesting and instructive details on this wholo subject,Robinson's Researches, vol. i. pp. 479-516, and Olin's Travels, vol. ii.pp. 168-181. ftS. Magna colluvie. A great conflux from the country, aswell as from the cities already destroyed by the Romans. The siegeof Titus took place at the time of the annual feast of the Passover,when all the adult male population wore expected to go up to Jerusalem. 21. Tres duces, etc. Cf. Joseph. B. J. 5, 1-6. 28. Q,uem Bargioram, i. e. son of Gioras. This clause stands after Joannes in the Medicean MS. and the earliest editions. Itmay perhaps have been written so by T. through ignorance. But thatthe surname belongs to Simon is evident from Joseph. B. J. 2, 23, and4,7.