OCR Output 94 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 769. of the accusers; but in a style of moderation, neitheraggravating nor extenuating the offence. XXX. Fonteius Agrippa and Caius Vibius, twonew accusers, joined in support of the prosecution.Being now four in number, they could not agreeamong themselves which should take the lead. Thepoint was contested with much warmth. Vibius atlength observed, that Libo came to the trial withoutan advocate to support him; and therefore, to endthe dispute with his associates, he undertook to detailin a plain and simple manner the heads of the charge.Nothing could be more wild and extravagant thansome of the articles. He stated that Libo had madeit a question to the fortune-tellers, whether he shouldever be rich enough to cover with money the Appianroad, as far as Brundusium. There Were other alle­gations of the same stamp, equally void of commonsense; or, to speak more truly, so weak and frivolous,that they could move no passion but pity. There was, however, one fact of a serious nature.A paper was produced, containing a list of the Csesars,and also sev eral senators, with remarks, or notes, whichno man could decypher, annexed to their names.This was exhibited as the hand-writing of Libo. Heinsisted on his innocence. It was proposed to put hisslaves to the torture. Their evidence, by the estab­lished rules of law, was inadmissible. By an ancient „decree of the senate, it was ordained, that, where themaster's life was in danger, no slave should undergo. the question. Tiberius, by a master-stroke of inven­tion, found an expedient to evade the law. He di­rected a sale of the slaves to be made to the publicofficer, that, the property being altered, they mightthen be examined on a new principle, unknown toformer times. Libo prayed an adjournment to thenext day. , Being returned to his own house, he sentby his relation, Publius Quirinius, an humble petitionto the emperor; the answer was, "he must address»' the senate." XXXI. A party of soldiers surrounded Libo's honse,and, with the brutal rudeness of men insolent in an­