OCR Output AN. 44.] 513 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. second year of that sabbatical period, thefourth part of what was sown. And besidesthis, they are to pay the same tithes to Hyr-canus and his sons which they paid to theirforefathers. And that no one, neither presi­dent, lieutenant nor ambassador, raise aux­iliaries within the bounds of Judea. Nor maysoldiers exact money of them for winter quar­ters, or under any other pretence; but theyare to be free from all sorts of injuries. Andwhatsoever they shall hereafter have, and arein possession of, or have bought, they shallretain. It is also our pleasure that the cityJoppa, which the Jews had originally, whenthey made a league of friendship with theRomans, shall belong to them, as it formerlydid; and that Hyrcanus, the son of Alexan­der, and his sons have, as tribute of that cityfrom those that occupy the land, for thecountry, and for what they export every yearto Sidon, twenty thousand six hundred andseventy-five modii every year; the seventhyear which they call the sabbath year, ex­cepted: whereupon they neither plough, norreceive the product of their trees. It is alsothe pleasure of the senate, that as to the vil­lages which are in the great plain, whichHyrcanus and his forefathers formerly pos­sessed, Hyrcanus and the Jews have themwith the same privileges with which theyformerly had them also: and that the sameoriginal ordinances remain still in force whichconcern the Jews, with regard to their high-priests; and that they enjoy the same bene­fits which they have had formerly by theconcession of the people, and of the senate:and let them enjoy the like privileges inLydda. It is also the pleasure of the senate,that Hyrcanus the ethnarch, and the Jews,retain those places, countries, and villages,which belonged to the kings of Syria andPhoenicia, the confederates of the Romans,and which they had bestowed on them, astheir free gifts: it is also granted to Hyrcanus,and to his sons, and to the ambassadors bythem sent to us; that in the fights betweensingle gladiators, and in those with beasts,they shall sit among the senators, to see thoseshows. And that when they desire an audi- * Dr. Hudson justly supposes, that these Roman impe-rators or generals of armies, who gave testimony to Hyr-canus's and the Jews' fidelity and good will to the Ro­mans, before the senate and people of Rome, were prin- ence, they shall be introduced into the senate,by the dictator, or by the general of the horse.And when they have introduced them, theiranswers shall be returned in ten days at thefarthest, after the decree of the senate ismade about their affairs." "Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator thefourth time, and consul the fifth time, de­clared to be perpetual dictator; made thisspeech, concerning the priests and privilegesof Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, the high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews. Since those*imperators that have been in the provincesbefore me have borne witness to Hyrcanusthe high-priest of the Jews, and to the Jewsthemselves, and this before the senate andpeople of Rome; when the people and senatereturned their thanks to them: it is good thatwe also now remember the same, and pro­vide that a requital be made to Hyrcanus, tothe nation of the Jews, and to the sons ofHyrcanus, by the senate and people of Rome;and that suitably to the good will they haveshewn us, and to the benefits they have be­stowed upon us." "Julius Caius, the praetor and consul ofRome, to the magistrates, senate, and people,of the Parians, sendeth greeting. The Jewsof Delos, and some other Jews that sojournthere, in the presence of your ambassadors,signified to us, that by a decree of yours youforbid them to make use of the customs oftheir forefathers, and their way of sacred wor­ship. Now it does not please me that suchdecrees should be made against our friendsand confederates: whereby they are forbid­den to live according to their own customs,or to bring in contributions for common sup­pers, and holy festivals; while they are notforbidden so to do even at Rome itself. Foreven Caius Caesar, our imperator, and consul,in that decree, wherein he forbade the Bac­chanal rioters to meet in the city, did yetpermit these Jews and these only, both tobring in their contributions, and to maketheir common suppers. Accordingly when Iforbid other Bacchanal rioters, I permit theseJews to gather themselves together, accord­ing to the customs and laws of their forefa- cipally Pompey, Scaurus, and Gabinius. Of all whomJosephus had already given us the history, so far as theJews were concerned with them.