OCR Output 328 livy. nature, if possible, than his cruelty, you, as beingnearer to Macedonia, are better acquainted with. Asto what concerns you, jEtolians, we entered into a warwith Philip on your account: you made peace withhim without consulting us. Perhaps you will say, thatwhile we were occupied in the Punic war, you wereconstrained by fear to accept terms of pacificationfrom him who possessed superior power; and that onour side, pressed by more urgent affairs, we suspendedour operations in a war which you had laid aside. Atpresent, as we, having, by the favor of the gods,brought the Punic war to a conclusion, have fallen onMacedonia with the whole weight of our power, soyou have an opportunity offered you of regaining aplace in our friendship and alliance, unless you chooseto perish with Philip, rather than to conquer with theRomans.' 32. After this discourse of the ambassador, the in­clinations of all leaning towards the Romans, Damo-critus, pretor of the jEtolians, (who, it was reported,had received money from the king,) without seemingto favor either party, said, that 'in consultationswherein the public safety was deeply interested, no­thing was so injurious as haste. That repentance, in­deed, generally followed, and that quickly, but yet toolate and unavailing; because designs carried on withprecipitation could not be recalled, nor matters broughtback to their original state. The time however fordetermining the point under consideration, which, forhis part, he thought should not be too early, might yetimmediately be fixed in this manner. As it had beenprovided by the laws, that no determination should bemade concerning peace or war, except in the Panae-tolic or Pylaic councils; let them immediately pass adecree, that the pretor, when he chooses to treat ofeither, may have full authority to summon a council;and that whatever shall be then debated and decreed,shall be, to all intents and purposes, legal and valid,as if it had been transacted in the Panaetolic or Pylaicassembly.' And thus dismissing the ambassadors,