OCR Output aN. 896.] 331 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. barley, or fine flour, out of heaven; so it isimpossible that what thou hast said, shouldcome to pass." To which the prophet madethis reply, "Thou shalt see these thingscome to pass; but thou shalt not be in theleast a partaker of them." What Elisha had thus foretold, came to {mss in the following manner: There was aaw at Samaria,* that those who had theleprosy, and whose bodies were not cleansedfrom it, should abide without the city. Andthere were four men that on this accountabode before the gates, while nobody gavethem any food by reason of the extremity ofthe famine. And as they were prohibitedfrom entering into the city by the law; andthey considered, that if they were permittedto enter, they should miserably perish by thefamine; as also, that if they stayed wherethey were, they should suffer in the samemanner; they resolved to deliver themselvesup to the enemy; that in case they sparedthem, they should live; but if they shouldbe killed, that would be an easy death. Sowhen they had confirmed this resolution, theycame by night to the enemy's camp. NowGod had alarmed and disturbed the Syrians,by bringing the noise of chariots and armourto their ears, as though an army were comingupon them; and had made them suspect thatit was coming nearer and nearer. In short,they were in such a dread of this army, thatthey left their tents, and ran together to Ben-hadad, and said, that Joram king of Israelhad hired for auxiliaries, both the king ofEgypt, and the king of the Islands, and ledthem against them; for they heard the noiseof them as they were coming. And Benha-dad believed what they said: (for there camethe same noise to his ears, as well as it did totheirs:) so they fell into a great disorder andtumult; and left their horses and beasts intheir camp, with immense riches also; andbetook themselves to flight. When the afore­mentioned lepers, therefore, arrived at thecamp, they found every thing perfectly quietand silent. Accordingly they went hastilyinto one of the tents; and when they saw no­body there, they ate and drank, and carried * This law of the Jews, for the exclusion of lepers outof the camp in the wilderness, and out of cities in Judea, is a known one.voL. I.—NOS. Levit. xiii. 46.27 & 28- and Numb. v. 1—4. off garments, and a great quantity of gold,and concealed them beyond the camp. Afterwhich they went into another tent, and car­ried off what was in it, as they did at theformer; and this they did four several times,without the least interruption. They nowperceived plainly that the enemies were de­parted; and reproached themselves, that theydid not inform Joram, and the citizens of it.So they came to the walls of Samaria, andcalled aloud to the watchmen, and told them,in what state the enemies were. This wassoon communicated to the king, who sent forhis friends, and the captain of his host, andsaid to them, "I suspect that this departureof the king of Syria is designed by way ofambush and treachery; and that out of de­spair of ruining you by famine, when you ima­gine them to be fled away, you may come outof the city to spoil their camp; and he maythen fall upon you on a sudden, and may bothkill you, and take the city without fighting.Whence it is that I exhort you to guard thecity carefully, and by no means to go out ofit, or proudly to despise your enemies, asthough they were really gone away." A cer­tain person replied, that he did very wiselyto admit such a suspicion; but that he stilladvised him to send a couple of horsemen,to search all the country, as far as Jordan;that if they were seized by an ambush of theenemy, they might be a security to the armythat they may not go out as if they suspectednothing, nor undergo the like misfortune:"And," said he, "those horsemen may benumbered among those that have died bythe famine, supposing they be caught anddestroyed by the enemy." So the king waspleased with his opinion, and sent such asmight search out the truth: who performedtheir journey over a road that was withoutany enemies; but found it full of provisions,and of weapons that they had thrown awayand left behind them, in order to their beinglight and expeditious in their flight. Whenthe king heard this, he sent out the multitudeto take the spoils of the camp; which werenot things of small value; but they took agreat quantity of gold and silver, and all kinds Antiq. III. 11. See the examples of its constant obtainingin practice, Numb. xii. 10—14. 2 Kings vii. 3. xv. 52 Chron. xxvi. 21. Antiq. IX. 10. 3M