OCR Output 384 FLAVIUS JOSEPH US [B. I. course with him. The account is this, as written down byhim:—" Now for a great part of what this Jew said, it wouldbe too long to recite it; but what includes in it both wonderand philosophy, it may not be amiss to discourse of. Now,that I may be plain with thee, Hyperochides, I shall hereinseem to thee to relate wonders, and what will resemble dreamsthemselves. Hereupon Hyperochides answered modestly,and said, for that very reason it is that all of us arc verydesirous of hearing what thou art going to say. Then, re­plied Aristotle, for this cause it will be the best way to imi­tate that rule of the rhetoricians, which requires us first togive an account of the man, and of what nation he was, thatso we may not contradict our master's directions. Thensaid Hyperochides, go on, if it so pleases thee. This man,then, [answered Aristotle,] was by birth a Jew, and camefrom Celesyria; these Jews are derived from the Indianphilosophers ; they are named by the Indians Calami, andby the Syrians Judwi, and took their name from the countrythey inhabit, which is called Judea; but for the name oftheir city, it is a very awkward one, for they call it Jeru­salem. Now this man, when he was hospitably treated by agreat many, came down from the upper country to the placesnear the sea, and became a Grecian not only in his language,but in his soul also : insomuch that when we ourselves hap­pened to be in Asia about the same places whither he came,he conversed with us, and with other philosophical persons,and made a trial of our skill in philosophy; and as he hadlived with many learned men, he communicated to us moreinformation than he received from us." This is Aristotle'saccount of the matter, as given us by Clearchus; whichAristotle discoursed also particularly of the great andwonderful fortitude of this Jew in his diet and continentway of living, as those that please may learn more abouthim from Clearchus's book itself; for I avoid setting downany more than is sufficient for my purpose. Now Clearchussaid this by way of digression, for his main design was ofanother nature. But for Hecatcus of Abdcra, who was botha philosopher and one very useful in an active life, he was