OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. form nature. The person and property of an orphanmust always be trusted to the custody of some discreetfriend. If the deceased father had not signified hischoice, the agnats, or paternal kindred of the nearestdegree, were compelled to act as the natural guardians:the Athenians were apprehensive of exposing the infantto the power of those most interested in his death; butan axiom of Roman jurisprudence has pronounced, thatthe charge of tutelage should constantly attend the emo­lument of succession. If the choice of the father, andthe line of consanguinity, afforded no efficient guardian,the failure was supplied by the nomination of the praetorof the city, or the president of the province. But theperson whom they named to this public office might belegally excused by insanity or blindness, by ignorance orinability, by previous enmity or adverse interest, by thenumber of children or guardianships with which he wasalready burdened, and by the immunities which weregranted to the useful labours of magistrates, lawyers, phy­sicians, and professors. Till the infant could speak andthink, he was represented by the tutor, whose authoritywas finally determined by the age of puberty. Withouthis consent, no act of the pupil could bind himself to hisown prejudice, though it might oblige others for his per­sonal benefit. It is needless to observe, that the. tutoroften gave security, and always rendered an account; andthat the want of diligence or integrity exposed him toa civil and almost criminal action for the violation of hissacred trust. The age of puberty had been rashly fixedby the civilians, at fourteen; but as the faculties of themind ripen more slowly than those of the body, a cura­tor was interposed to guard the fortunes of the Romanyouth from his own inexperience and headstrong pas­sions. Such a trustee had been first instituted by theprastor, to "save a family from the blind havoc of a prodi­gal or a madman; and the minor was compelled by thelaws, to solicit the same protection, to give validity to 2 B 2