OCR Output X PREFACE. All men have neither the turn of mmd, nor the leisure, tomake themselves proficients in the dead and learned lan­guages. Such as have are certainly honestly, perhaps bene­ficently, employed, in holding out light to others. The Greekhistorians, as they take a precedency in time, lay further astrong claim to precedency in merit. Thucydides is the mostinstructive of these ; and, since the restoration of letters inthe western world, each nation, that hath piqued itself at allabout humanity or politeness, as his manner was soon foundto be excellent, have given thanks to those who have endea­voured to investigate his matter and lay it open to publicview. It is to the honour of the French, that they took the lead.The first translation of Thucydides into French, published atParis in 1527, was that of Claude de Seyssel, bishop of Mar­seilles. However performed, it went, within the space of lit­tle more than thirty years, through four impressions. It issaid to have been done at the command of Francis I. king ofFrance; and, to have been carried about with him in hiswars, and diligently studied by the Emperor Charles V. TheGermans had also a translation of him soon afterwards in theyear 1533. In 1545, Francis di Soldo Strozzi published anItalian translation dedicated to Cosmo di Medicis. The firstEnglish translation made its appearance in London in 1550•but, in fact, was only the translation of a translation, since itwas intitled a version from the French of Claude de Seyssel.In 1564, he was published in Spanish. A second Frenchtranslation by Louis Jonsaud d'Usez was published at Gene­va in 1600. The second into English, by the famous Mr.Hobbes of Malmsbury, was first published in the year 1628,about which it will be necessary immediately to inlarge. Athird French translation, by the Sieur d'Ablancourt, waspublished at Paris in 1662, and hath since gone throughfour editions. There is a Danish translation, which clo-seth the list given of them in the Bibliotheca Graca of Fa­bric i us.