OCR Output 70 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768. ment, had great weight with the fathers; and whatwas established by that prince, Tiberius would notpresume to alter. To fix the salary of the players ata certain sum, and to repress the zeal of their parti­sans, several decrees were passed: the most materialwere, " That no senator should enter the house of a"pantomime performer: that the Roman knights" should not attend the players in the street; no ex-" hibition to be presented in any place except the" theatre; and all who engaged in riots were liable to" be banished by the sentence of the prsetor." LXXVIII. In consequence of a petition from Spain,leave was given to erect a temple to Augustus in thecolony of Terragon. By this decree a precedent washeld forth to all the provinces. The people of Romepresented a petition, praying that the payment of thehundredth part, which was a tax on all vendible com­modities, imposed since the close of the civil wars,might be remitted for the future. Tiberius declared,by public edict, " That the support of the army de-" pendod upon that fund; and even with those re-" sources the commonwealth was unequal to the" charge, unless the veterans were retained in the ser-" vice for the full term of twenty years." By this art­ful stroke, the regulations limiting the time to sixteenyears, which had been extorted during the sedition inGermany, were in effect repealed, and rendered voidfor the future. LXXIX. A project to prevent inundations, by givinga new course to the lakes and rivers that emptythemselves into the Tiber, was proposed to the senateby Lucius Arruntius and Atteius Capito. The mu­nicipal towns and colonies were heard in oppositionto the measure. The Florentines stated, " That if the" Clanis were diverted from its channel, and made to" flow by a new course into the Arno, their whole" country would be ruined." The inhabitants of In-teramna made the like objection; contending that " if" the Nan, according to the plan proposed, were di-. "videdinto various rivulets, the most fertile plains" in Italy would be no better than a barren waste."Noi did the people of Reat£ remain silent: they re