OCR Output 306 ROMAN EMPIRE. of the branch of Oramiyah, succeeded to tne principalityof the republic of Mecca. A zealous votary of the idols,a mortal foe of the line of Hashem, he convened an as­sembly of the Koreishites and their allies, to decide thefate of the apostle. His imprisonment might provoke thedespair of his enthusiasm; and the exile of an eloquentand popular fanatic would diffuse the mischief throughthe provinces of Arabia. His death was resolved; andthey agreed that a sword from each tribe should beburied in his heart, to divide the guilt of his blood, andand driven baffle the vengeance of the Hashemites. An an-Mecca. S^ or a SPY revealed their conspiracy; and flightA.D. ees. was the only resource of Mahomet.b At the deadof night, accompanied by his friend Abubeker, he silentlyescaped from his house: the assassins watched at thedoor; but they were deceived by the figure of Ali, whoreposed on the bed, and was covered with the green vest­ment of the apostle. The Koreish respected the pietyof the heroic youth; but some verses of Ali, which arestill extant, exhibit an interesting picture of his anxiety,his tenderness, and his religious confidence. Three daysMahomet and his companion were concealed in the caveof Thor, at the distance of a league from Mecca; and inthe close of each evening, they received from the sonand daughter of Abubeker, a secret supply of intelligenceand food. The diligence of the Koreish explored everyhaunt in the neighbourhood of the city; they arrived atthe entrance of the cavern; but the providential deceitof a spider's web and a pigeon's nest, is supposed to con­vince them that the place was solitary and inviolate. Weare only two, said the trembling Abubeker. There is athird (replied the prophet); it is God himself. Nosoofter was the pursuit abated, than the two fugitives is­sued from the rock, and mounted their camels; on theroad to Medina, they were overtaken by the emissariesof the Koreish; they redeemed themselves with prayers » plfcrbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 445. He quotes a particular history of th«flight of Mahomet.