OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAM EMPIRE. 32£ , From Augustus to Trajan, the modern Cassars werd [j™5tj1,fI,"hecontent to promulgate their edicts in the various charac- emperors,ters of a Roman magistrate: and, in the decrees of thefsenate, the epistles and orations of the prince were respect­fully inserted. Hadrian" appears to have been the firstwho assumed, without disguise, the plenitude of legisla­tive power. And this innovation, so agreeable to hisactive mind, was countenanced by the patience of thetimes, and his long absence from the seat of government.The same policy was embraced by succeeding monarchs,and, according to the harsh metaphor of Tertullian,"the gloomy and intricate forest of ancient laws wascleared away by the axe of royal mandates and consti­tutions"" During four centuries, from Hadrian to Jus­tinian, the public and private jurisprudence was mouldedby the will of the sovereign; and few institutions, eitherhuman or divine, were permitted to stand on their for­mer basis. The origin of imperial legislation was con­cealed by the darkness of ages and the terrors of armeddespotism; and a double fiction was propagated by. theservility, or perhaps the ignorance, of the civilians whobasked in the sunshine of the Roman and Byzantinecourts. 1. To the prayer of the ancient Cassars, thepeople or the senate had sometimes granted a personalexemption from the obligation and penalty of particularstatutes; and each indulgence was an act of jurisdictionexercised by the republic over the first of her citizens.His humble privilege was at length transformed into theprerogative of a tyrant; and the Latin expression of"released from the laws,"p was supposed to exalt theemperor above all human restraints, and to leave his by the master-hand of Heineccius, (Opp. tom. 7. P. 2. p. 1—564.) in whoso re­searches I might safely acquiesce. In the Academy of Inscriptions, M. Boachaudhas given a series of memoirs to this interesting snbject of law and literature.• n [lis laws are the first in the Code. See Dodwell, (Praelect. Camden, p'. 319—■340.) who wanders from the subject in confused reading and feeble paradox.- ° Totam illam veterem et squalleutem sylvam legum novis principalium rescrip--torum et edictorum securibus ruscatis ct carditis. (Apologet. c. 4. p. 50. edit. Haver-camp.) He proceeds to praise the recent firmness of Severns, who repealed the use­less or pernicious laws, without any regard to their age or authority. P The constitutional style of Legibus Suiutus is misinterpreted by the art or igno-