OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 273 a subject of contention between the vridow of the last kingCleopatra (+ 665), and his two sons Soter II. Lathyrus 89.(4- 673) and Alexander I. (+ 666); which gave occasion 81. «8.to Cyprus also to separate itself for a considerable periodfrom Egypt. The Romans did not interfere in these com- Cyreueplications; in fact, when the Cyrenaean kingdom fell to Roman,them in 658 by the testament of the childless king Apion, B6.while not directly rejecting the acquisition, they left thecountry in substance to itself by declaring the Greek townsof the kingdom, Cyrene, Ptolemais, and Berenice, free citiesand even handing over to them the use of the royal domains.The supervision of the governor of Africa over this territorywas from its remoteness merely nominal, far more so thanthat of the governor of Macedonia over the Hellenic freecities. The consequences of this measure—which beyonddoubt originated not in Philhellenism, but simply in theweakness and negligence of the Roman government—weresubstantially similar to those which had occurred under thelike circumstances in Hellas; civil wars and usurpationsso rent the land that, when a Roman officer of rank acci­dentally made his appearance there in 668, the inhabitants 86.urgently besought him to regulate their affairs and toestablish a permanent government among them. In Syria also during the interval there had not been much Sj ria.change, and still less any improvement. During the twentyyears' war of succession between the two half-brothersAntiochus Grypus (+ 658) and Antiochus of Cyzicus 96.(4- 659), which was transmitted after their death to their 95.sons, the kingdom which was the object of contention be­came almost an empty name, inasmuch as the Cilician sea-kiDgs, the Arab sheiks of the Syrian desert, the princes ofthe Jews, and the magistrates of the larger towns had ordi­narily more to say than the wearers of the diadem. Mean­while the Romans established themselves in western Cilicia,and the important Mesopotamia passed over definitively tothe Parthians. The monarchy of the Arsacida e had passed through a dan- The Par-gerous crisis about the time of the Gracchi, chiefly in con- thian s,ilte-sequence of the inroads of Turanian tribes. The ninthAreacid, Mithradates II. or the Great (630 ?-667 ?), had 124-87.recovered for the state its position of ascendancy in theinterior of Asia, repulsed the Scythians, and advanced theboundaries of the kingdom towards Syria and Armenia; but VOX. III. T