OCR Output ait. 1493.] 117 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. cat; and in the temple also; and the sameday they were offered. When Moses had made these constitutions,after the sedition was over, he removed to­gether with the whole army, and came to theborders of Idumea. He then sent ambassa­dors to the king of the Idumeans, and desiredhim to give him a passage through his coun­try: and agreed to send him what hostageshe should desire, to secure him from any in­jury. He desired also, that he would allowhis army liberty to buy provisions: and if heinsisted upon it, he would pay down a pricefor the very water they should drink. Butthe king was not pleased with this ambassagefrom Moses, nor did he allow a passage forthe army, but brought his people armed tomeet Moses, and to hinder them in case theyshould endeavour to force their passage.Upon which Moses consulted God by theOracle; who would not have him begin thewar first; and so he withdrew his forces, andtravelled round about through the wilder­ness. Then it was that Miriam, the sister ofMoses, came to her* end; having completedherf fortieth year since she left Egypt; on Jthe first day of the lunar month Xanthicus.They then made a public funeral for her, at agreat expense. She was buried upon a cer­tain mountain, which they call Sin. Andwhen they had mourned for her thirty days,Moses purified the people after this manner:He brought a heifer, that had never beenused to the plough, or to husbandry; that wascomplete in all its parts, and entirely of a redcolour; at a little distance from the camp, intoa place perfectly clean. This heifer was slainby the high-priest, and her blood sprinkledwith his finger seven times before the taber­nacle of God. After this, the entire heiferwas burnt in that state, together with its skinand entrails, and they threw cedar-wood, andhyssop, and scarlet wool, into the midst of thefire. Then a clean man gathered all herashes together, and laid them in a place per­fectly clean. When, therefore, any persons were defiled by a dead body, they put a littleof these ashes into spring water, with hyssop;and dipping part of these ashes in it, theysprinkled them with it, both on the third day,and on the seventh; and after that they wereclean. This he enjoined them to do also,when the tribes should come into their ownland. Now when this purification, which theirleader made, upon the mourning for his sister,as it had now been described, was over, hecaused the army to remove, and to marchthrough the wilderness, and through Arabia.And when he came to a place which the Ara­bians esteem their metropolis, which was for­merly called Arce, but has now the name ofPetra: at this place, which was encompassedwith high mountains, Aaron went up one ofthem, in the sight of the whole army; Moseshaving before told him that he was to die.for this place was over against them. Hethere put off his pontifical garments, and de­livered them to Eleazar his son, to whom thehigh-priesthood belonged, because he was theelder brother; and died|| while the multitudelooked upon him. He died in the same yearwherein he lost his sister; having lived in allan hundred and twenty-three years. He diedon the first day of that lunar month, which iscalled by the Athenians, Hecatombaeon; bythe Macedonians, Lous; but by the Hebrews,Abba. CHAP. V. OF THE CONQUEST OF SIHON AND OG, KINGS OF THE AMO-RITES J AND THE DIVISION OF THEIR LAND BY LOT TOTWO TRIBES AND A HALF OF THE HEBREWS. THE people mourned for Aaron thirtydays: and when this mourning was over,Moses removed the army from that place, andcame to the river Arnon; which issuing outof the mountains of Arabia, and runningthrough all that wilderness, fell into the lakeAsphaltites, and became the limit betweenthe land of the Moabites, and the land of theAmorites. This land is fruitful, and sufficientto maintain a great number of men, with the * Numb. xx. 1. T Josephus here uses this phrase, when the fortiethyear was completed, for when it was begun; as does St.Luke, when the day of Pentecost was completed. Acts ii. 1. J Whether Miriam died, as Josephus's Greek copiesimply, on this first day of the month, may be doubted; because the Latin copies say, it was on the tenth; and sosay the Jewish calendars also, as Dr. Bernard assures us.It is said her sepulchre is still extant near Petra, the oldcapital of Arabia Petra, at this day; as also that of Aaron,not far off. 1! Numb. xx. 28.