OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP XLVI. transported their tents from the plains of the Volga to'the mountains of Georgia; Heraclius received them itithe neighbourhood of Teflis, and the khan with his no­bles dismounted from their horses, if we may credit theGreeks, and fell prostrate on the ground, to adore thepurple of the Caesar. Such voluntary homage and im­portant aid were entitled to the warmest acknowledg­ments; and the emperor, talcing off his own diadem,placed it on the head of the Turkish prince, whom hesaluted with a tender embrace and the appellation of son.After a sumptuous banquet, he presented Ziebel with theplate and ornaments, the gold, the gems, and the silk,which had been used at the imperial table, and, withhis own hand, distributed rich jewels and ear-ringsto his new allies. In a secret interview, he produced theportrait of his daughter Eudocia,5 condescended to flat­ter the barbarian with the promise of a fair and augustbride, obtained an immediate succour of forty thousandhorse, and negotiated a strong diversion of the Turkisharms on the side of the Oxus.h The Persians, in theirturn, retreated with precipitation ; in thecampofEdessa,Heraclius reviewed an army of seventy thousand Romansand strangers; and some months were successfully em­ployed in the recovery of the cities of Syria, Mesopota­mia, and Armenia, whose fortifications had been imper­fectly restored. Sarbar still maintained the importantstation of Chalcedon; but the jealousy of Chosroes, orthe artifice of Heraclius, soon alienated the mind of thatpowerful satrap from the service of his king and country.A messenger was intercepted with a real or fictitious man­date to the cadarigan, or second in command, directinghim to send, without delay, to the throne, the head of a B Epiphania, or Eudocia, the only daughter of Heraclius and his first wife Eudocia■was born at Constantinople on the ?th of July, A. D. 611. haptized the 15th of Au­gust, and crovrhed (in the oratory of St. Stephen in the palace) the 4th of Octobeiof the same year. At this time she was about fifteen. Eudoeia was afterward sentto her Turkish hushand, but the news of his death stopped her journey and preventedthe consummation. (Ducange, Familias Byzantin. p. 118.) b Elmauin (Hist. Saraceu. p. 1S—16.) gives some curious and prohable facts: buthis numbers are rather too high—three hundred thousand Romans assembled a*Edessa—five hundred thousand Persians killed at Nineveh. The ahatement of acipher is scarcely enough to restore his sanity.