OCR Output MANDAXF. 257 MAXDUB1T. lnwever, to have lived rather lower down the riverBrtir Monghir, in the district now called BeJtar.(Sr* Lassen's map.) [V.] MANDANE (Mwoanj), a town on the coast ofCiltcia, between Celenderis, and Cape Pisidium, fromwhich it was only 7 stadia distant (Stadiasm.§§ 174,175.) It is probably the same place as theMn.j.ii or Mv-anda in Pliny (v. 27); and if so, itmost also be identical with the town of My us (Muoiij)iRfOtioned by Scylax (p. 40) between Nagidus andCelenderis. [L. S.] MANDARAE (MarSopaQ, the district aboutCvrrhns in Macedonia. (Steph. B. s. p.) [E. B. J.] MANDELA. [Digkntia.] MANDORL [Mandrus.] MANDROGIUM. [Carthago, Vol. I. p. 551, a.] MANDRUANl (Plin. vi. 16. s. 18), a peopleiwntioned by Pliny as occupying a part of WesternBsctriana, nnder the spurs of the Paropamisus. Theyare now, like several other tribes whose names arepven by that geographer to the same locality, nolonger to be identified. [V.] HAN'DRUTOLIS (MwSpouwoAir or Mwtyo*-tbJuj), a town in Mysia (Hierocl. p. 664), now calledMnduria or Sfendreghora, at the foot of Mountlemons. Stephanas of Byzantium («. r.) erroneouslyfixes the town in Phrygia. There seems to be littledoubt bat that Mandrupolis is the same town asHindropos or M&ndrupium, mentioned by Livy(rariii. 15). [L.S.] MAXDRUS MOKS(to MdBpov,!} MdvZpov Spot),mk of the chief mountains of Libya, from whencenW ill the streams from Salathus to Massa; themiddle of the mountain has a position of 14° E. long,and 19° N. lat, assigned to it by Ptolemy (iv. 6.§ 8). Afterwards (§ 14) he describes the riverKieeir as unitirig, or yoking together (ewi^eu-7fw). Mount Mandrus with Mount Thala. [Ni-cnt] (Comp. London Geogr. Journ. vul. ii. p. 19;Ifcadttn, Dissertation on the Niger, p. 81.) Ptolemy(j 17) places the following tribes in the neighbour­hood of this mountain; the Rauii ('Pd£<oi), the Malooae (MoAic&u), and the Manpori (M&-Sopoi). [E.B.J.] MANDU'BII (Mav$o6€toi), a Gallic people whomStrabo(iv. p. 191) erroneously calls the neighbours ofthe Arverni. When Caesar (b. c. 52) was march­ing through the territory of the Lingones, with theintention of retreating through the Sequani into theProvincia, he was attacked by the confederate Galliunder Vercingetorix (B. G. vii. 68). The Galliwere defeated, and Vercingetorix, with his men, tookrefuge in Alesia, a town of the Mandubii. The siteof the battle is not indicated by Caesar, but the po­sition of Alesia is at Alise, or A lise Sainte Heine, asit is also called, in the department of the Cote dQr.The railroad from Paris to Dijon crosses the hills ofthe Cote d'0r}o( which Alesia and the heights aroundit are a part. The Mandubii were a small peoplewho fed their flocks and cattle on the grassy hills ofthe Cote dOri and cultivated the fertile land at thefoot of Alesia. Before the blockade was formed, theyhad driven a great quantity of their animals (pecuo)within the walls. {B. G. vii. 71.) The Mandubii who had received their countrymeninto the city, were turned out of it by them, withtheir wives and children, during Caear's blockade, inorder that the scanty supply of provisions for thetroops might last longer. The Romans refused toreceive the Mandubii and give them food. The cer­tain conclusion from Caesar's narrative is, that theseunfortunate people died of hunger between their ownwalls and the Roman circumvallation (B. G. vii. 78;Dion Cass. xl. 41). Caesar's description of Alexiais true; and the operations of his army about theplace (£. G. vii. 69—90) are easily understood. This plan of Alesia and the surrounding countryis taken from Casern's large map of France. Thecity of the Mandubii, or Alesia, was " on the summitof a hill, in a very elevated position," as Caesar cor­rectly describes it. This hill stands alone, and, ex­cept on the west side, where there is a plain, it issurrounded by hills of the same height, which are se­parated from Alesia by valleys. In the flat valley PLAJC OF THK KttVIROXS OF ALESIA. * TV.»* md of the hill of Alrtia, where Vercingetorix Ibwlt bu alone walL h \ I H»l. pwily occupied by Caesar.T Ditrq. DiOfti*, & Ditto. K. Hospital of Alite. a a. Koail from Mutrtbard and Auxerre* lib. Itnad tu Dijon.