OCR Output A. D.22.] 183 OF TACITUS. LVII. The senate was not taken by surprise : theemperor's intention had been foreseen, and flatterywas ready with her servile strain. Invention, not­withstanding, was at a loss for novelty. Statues weredecreed to Tiberius and his son; altars were raised tothe gods; temples were built, and triumphal archeserected, with other honours of a similar nature. Mar­cus Silanus aimed at something new. Willing, at theexpense of the consular dignity, to pay a complimentto the princes, he proposed that, in all public and pri­vate registers, the year should no longer take its datefrom the names of the consuls, but from the personsinvested with the tribunitian power. Quintus Hate-rius went still farther; he moved that the decrees ofthat day should be fixed up in the senate-house inletters of gold. His motion was treated with con­tempt and ridicule. The fathers saw with indigna­tion a superannuated senator, who, on the verge oflife, could incur present infamy, without a prospectof future wages. LVIII. Amidst these transactions, the governmentof Africa was continued to Junius Blsesus. Theproconsulship of Asia, happening then to be vacant,was demanded by Servius Maluginensis, the priest ofJupiter. In support of his claim, he contended," that the inability of a priest, in his station, to go out" of Italy, was a vulgar error. The order to which" he belonged, differed in nothing from that of Mars44 and Romulus. If the priest of the two last were*' eligible to foreign governments, whence arose his" incapacity ? No prohibitory law was ever passed by"the people; the books of religious ceremonies are" silent on the subject. In particular cases, when the" ministers of Jupiter were detained, either by illness" or by public business, one of the pontiffs officiated" in his place. After the tragical death of Cornelius" Merula, a space of no less than seventy-six years" elapsed, without any nomination to the office: did" the interests of religion suffer in the mean time ?" During that whole period, the sacerdotal function" was suspended, without prejudice to the established"worship; and why should not his absence be ex­ Q 2