OCR Output SILOS. 433 NILUS. lim ant, in the Connie of nges, converted intoLtrArrypt. In aH historical periods, however, theiw bai discharged itself into the aea by two mainimi, farming the sides of an isosceles triangle, theinline, of the Delta proper, and by a number of■ f-.vriith rati (iinrii tu the sea. whileitlsn discharged their waters into the principal«a rf the main stream. The Delta is, indeed, asrt-rwk of rivers, primary and secondary; and is'kt m'mected by numerous canals. The pri-aarj thairacls were usually accounted by the an-"rt, irm in number (Herod, ii. 17; Scylax,HI. Strab. xvii.p.801,seq.; Diodor. i. 33; Ptol.■ ijlO; Plin. v. 10. a. II; Mela, i. 9. § 9;*=■»■, iiii. 15, 16; Wilkinson, .V. <f C, Mod.: aad Tktbts. A*c), and may be taken in the*>: iallywiag. They are denominated from somei. d:T >ra:e,i on their banks, and are enume-•tKfnmtto W. 1- Behaving from the E.. was the Pelusiann (ta UtKoveuucbf 0-tomo. Strab. xvii. p. 801;Issaat Pelasiacam, Plin. v. 9. s. 9). This hasa* btcau dry; and even when Strabo wrote ai;« the first century A. D., Pelusium, which■at m as banks, and from which it derived itswas*, was nearly 2 \ miles from the sea (xvii. p.**H The remains of the city are now more thanIt-' tats that distance. Upon the banks of thenbau arm stood, on the eastern side, and nearw» «?a of the Delta, Heliopolis, the On of Scrip-mi SO mile* lower down, Bubastus (Tel I The Tanitic arm (to Tas-iTUfOi* ffTo)ia, or toVnne. Herod, u. 17; comp. Strab. xvii. p. 802;i J. j J. Catapystum). The present canal ofprufcably coincides nearly with the Tanitic«Wh, however, together with the Ostiuma. has been absorbed in the lower portionuse by the lake Mtmalth. It derived its■ Tasia, toe Znui of Scripture, the modemJ*»iat 31°, coec/the oldest cities of the Delta.Tat Hfdniiii arm (to Mtvtriaioy o-rifxa,t 4r.) wat a channel running from the Seben-Xiannn. It is now lost in the lake Mcn- ^Tae Pbatnitic or Pathmetic arm (to +ot-P»» rr»»«, Strab.; ♦aTTurbi', Diod. i. 33; , Ptol iv. 5. §§ 10, 40; Pathrneticum,5 This was the BovKo\utbv arofia(u. 17); but it seems doubtful whetherat flriginal channel, and not rather a canal,■await with the lower portion of the presentatwiarh «f the Nile.Tie Sekttniytic arm (to ZtStwvrntbv ffrufia)i Dame from the city of Sebennytus, thewatanwaf. As far as this city the JJami-■ represents the ancient Sebennytic; but•TUna point, lat. 31°, the earlier channel■ tht nances or sands, which separate the&eilafrom the Mediterranean; and its mouth,^§"*t nearly due N. of Memphis, is now coveredB^sii of Bomrla*. The Sebennytic arm, con-■ the direction of the Nile before its divi-irly in a straight course fromto be regarded not so much as\ ■ Nr.::;' hea as the main streamTsu eaanwL, together with the most easterly,fcwa\watl the most westerly, the Canopic,** tint wain arms of the Nile, and carried*• tat sea by far the greater volumes of r 6. The Bolbitic or BolbitlM arm (to BoAStrtKbvffrofia, Strab. xvii. p. 803; Sty], p. 43; or BoA&t.toc,•Herod, ii. 17; Diodor. i. 33; BoKSItivov, PtoL iv.5. §§ 10, 43; Bolbiticum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Am-mian. xxii. 15), was, like the Phatnitic, originallyan artificial canal, and seems in the time of Hero­dotus to have been a branch connecting the Seben­nytic with the Canopic channels (ii. 17), having,however, an outlet of its own, probably as a back­water during the inundation, to the Mediterranean.The Bolbitic arm is now represented by so much ofthe Rosetta branch of the Nile as runs between thesea and the ancient course of the Ostium Cano-picum. 7. The Canopic arm (to KavuGtiebv trrrf^a, Strab.I. c; comp. Aristot. Hfeteorol. i. 14; Ostium Cano-picum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Plin. v. 10. b. 11) was alsotermed the Naucratic arm of the Nile, Ostium Nau-craticum (Plin. I. &), from the city of Naucratis,which was seated on its left bank. This was the mostwesterly, and one of the three great branches of theNile (see Pelusian, Sebennytic). In the first portionof its descent from the point of the Delta the Canopicarm skirted the Libyan desert. At the city of Tere-nuthis (Teranieh), a road, about t38 miles in length,through the calcareous ridge of hills, connected itwith the Natron Lakes. On its right bank, belowthis point, stood the ancient city of Sais, and a fewmiles lower down, Naucratis. From its vicinity, at6rst, to this city, the Canton of Aegypt, and after­wards, by means of the canal which connected itwith the lake Mareotis on the one hand, and Alex-andreia on the other, the Canopic branch retainedits importance; and its embankments were the careof the government of Aegypt long after its rivalbranches, the Sebennytic and Pelusian, were desertedor had been suffered to flow uselessly into themarshes. It is now represented in the upper por­tion of its channel by the Rosttta branch of the Nile.But they diverge from each other at lat. 31°, wherethe elder arm turned off to the W., and dischargeditself into the Mediterranean near the present bay andforeland of Aboukir. Its mouth is now covered by ashallow lagoon, intersected by strips of sand and allu­vial deposit, called the lake of Madieh. The Ca­nopic arm of the Nile, although not actually thewestern boundary of Aegypt, was, at least, in thePharaonic era, the limit of its commerce on the NW.base of the Delta, since beyond it, until the buildingof Alexandreia, there was no town of any importance. The canals which were derived from the Nile forthe convenience of local intercourse and irrigation,were very numerous; anil the prosperity of Aegypt,especially on the Arabian side of the river, dependedin great measure upon their being kept in good re­pair, and conveying to the arid waste a sufficientsupply of water. Hence the condition of the canalswas almost synonymous with the good or bad admi­nistration of Aegypt; and we 6nd that among thefirst cares of Augustus, after adding this> kingdom tohis provinces, in B.C. 24, was to repair and rehabi­litate the canals, which had fallen into decay underthe misrule of the later Ptolemies. (Suet. Avg. 18;Dion. Ii. 68; Aurel. Vict. Epit. i. 5.) For nationalcommerce, however, there were only two of theseartificial channels upon n large scale between Syeneand the sea, (1.) The canal called, in differentages, the river of Ptolemy (nroAe^atoj ttoto^Jf,Diodor. i. 33; Plin. v. 29. s. 23), and the river of Tra­jan (Tpaioi'bf Tora^idj, PtoL iv. 5. § 54). This hadbeen commenced by Pharaoh Necho II. (B.c.480),was F F