OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. voices of the barbarians attempted to imitate the melodyof the Roman school.b Experience had shewn him theefficacy of these solemn and pompous rites, to soothe thedistress, to confirm the faith, to mitigate the fierceness,and to dispel the dark enthusiasm of the vulgar; and hereadily forgave their tendency to promote the reign ofpriesthood and superstition. The bishops of Italy andthe adjacent islands acknowledged the Roman pontiff astheir special metropolitan. Even the existence, the union,or the translation of episcopal seats, was decided by hisabsolute discretion: and his successful inroads into theprovinces of Greece, of Spain, and of Gaul, might coun­tenance the more lofty pretensions of succeeding popes.He interposed to prevent the abuses of popular elec­tions; his jealous care maintained the purity of faith anddiscipline, and the apostolic shepherd assiduously watch­ed over the faith and discipline of the subordinate pas­tors. Under his reign, the Arians of Italy and Spainwere reconciled to the Catholic church, and the conquestof Britain reflects less glory on the name of Caesar, thanon that of Gregory I. Instead of six legions, fortymonks were embarked for that distant island, and thepontiff lamented the austere duties which forbade him topartake-the perils of their spiritual warfare. In less thantwo years he could announce to the archbishop of Alex­andria, that they had baptized the king of Kent withten thousand of his Anglo-Saxons; and that the Romanmissionaries, like those of the primitive church, werearmed only with spiritual and supernatural powers. Thecredulity or the prudence of Gregory was always disposedto confirm the truths of religion by the evidence ofghosts, miracles, and resurrections ;c and posterity has 11 John the deacon (in Vit. Greg. lib. 2. c. 7.) expresses the early contempt of theItalians for tramontane singing. Alpina scilicet corpora vocum suarum tonitruis al-tisone perstrepentia, sosr.eptze modulations dulcedinem proprie non resultant: qnifthihali gatturis harhara feritas dum inflexionibus et repercussionibus mitem nititoredere cantilenam, naturati quodam fragore quasi planstra per gradus confuse sonantiarigidas voces jaotat, &c. In the time of Charlemagne, the Franks, though with somereluctance, admitted the justice of the reproach. Muratori, Dissert. 25. c A French critic (Petras Gassanvillius, Opera, tom. 2. p. 105—112.) has vindi­