OCR Output 960 SELLASIA. of the Macedonians opposed to him, led his men outof tlie intrenchments and charged the Macedonianphalanx. The Lacedaemonians fought with greatbravery; but after many vain attempts to breakthrough the impenetrable mass of the phalanx, theywere entirely defeated, and of 601)0 men only 200are said to have escaped from the Held of battle.Cleomenes, perceiving all was lost, escaped with a few horsemen to Sparta, and from thenceto Gythium, where he embarked for Aezyj*. aa*tigonus, thus master of the passe* marched djrartsyto Sellasia, which he j lundered and destmte, ami then to Sparta, which submitted to turnslight resistance. (Polyb. ii. 65—"0; Pint.27, 28, Phihp. 6; Paiis. ii. 9. § 2, uL la |29. § 9, vii. 7. § 4, viii. 49. § 5.) rLAN OF THE BATTLE OF SKLLASIA. a an. Troops of Cleomenei. B B. Itfvid to Ai . • b b h. Troops of Antlgooui. C C. Hoad to Mejralofoti*. A A. Road to Tegea. I D 1». Road to Sparta. In the preceding account of the hat tie we have'followed the excellent description of Ross. (Rei*enim Prhponnes, p. 181.) The French Commissionhad previously supposed the plain of Krevata to bethe site of the battle of Sellasia (Boblaye, Recher-ckest cfft p. 73); and the same opinion has beenadopted by Curtius. (Pefaponnesos, vol. ii. p, 260.)Leake, however, places Sellasia to the SE.. near themonastery of the Forty Saints ("A7ioi 'Zapdvra),and supposes the battle to have been fought in thepass to the eastward of the monastery. The ruinsnear the Khan of Krevata he maintains to be thoseof Caryae. (Le:ike, .\forea, vol. ii. p. 529, Pelo-potmetiaca, p, 341, seq.) But Boss informs us thatin the narrow pass NE. of the monastery of theForty Saints there is barely room for a loaded muleto pass; and we know moreover that Sellasia was situated on the high road from Sparta to T<Argos, which must have led through theKrcratri. {Kara rijr Aftwpopor, Paua. BLPlut Chom. 23; Xen. UelL vi 5. § 27; £64; Liv. xsxiv. 28.) On leaving the plain of Kreratd, tb» miwards ascends the mountain, and at ibedla quarter of an hour leaves a tmall rma amrailed by the peasants Pa'arogula (if TlaAaaThe remains of the walls are Hellenic hatof very small extent, and the place was jeither a dependency of Sflla&i* or on to «inhabitants of the latter fled fur refuse at atperiods when their city was destroyed. The ruins of Sellnsia lie 1 J milesffula upon the summit of the mountain. 1was about 1 \ miles in circomfuiSMSV as