OCR Output 500 DISSERTATION II. "' They built the high places of Baal, which are in thevalley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and theirdaughters to pass through the fire unto Molech, which I com­manded them not, neither came it into my mind that theyshould do this abomination to cause Judah to sin." " 2 Moreover, thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters,whom thou hast born unto me, and these hast thou sacrificedunto them to be devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a smallmatter, that thou hast slain my children, and delivered themto cause them to pass through the fire for them ? See chap.xx. 1 Cor. x. 20. "3 Thou hatest the old inhabitants of thy holy land, fordoing most odious works of witchcraft, and wicked sacrifices ;and also those merciless murderers of children, and devourersof man's flesh, and feasts of blood, with their priests, out ofthe midst of their idolatrous crew, and the parents that killedwith their own hands souls destitute of help." 6. That Almighty God never permitted, in any one in­stance, that such a human sacrifice should actually bo offeredto himself (though he had a right to have required it, if hehad so pleased,) under the whole Jewish dispensation, whichyet was full of many other kinds of sacrifices, and this at atime when mankind generally thought such sacrifices of thegreatest virtue for the procuring pardon of sin, and the divinefavor. This the ancient records of the heathen world attest.Take their notion in the words of Philo Byblius, the trans­lator of Sanchoniatho. "4 It was the custom of the ancients,in the greatest calamities and dangers, for the governors ofthe city or nation, in order to avert the destruction of all, todevote their beloved son to be slain, as a price of redemptionto the punishing [or avenging] demons ; and those so devotedwere killed after a mystical manner." This the history ofthe king of Moab,5 when he was in great distress in his waragainst Israel and Judah, informs us of; who then took hiseldest son, that should have reigned in his stead, and offeredhim for a burnt-offering upoa the city wall. This also the ' Jer. xxxii. 35. s Ezek. xvi. 20, 21. » Wisdom, xii. 4-6 4 Ap. Marsh. p. 76, 77. 5 2 Kings, iii. 27.