OCR Output 22 ROMAN EMPIRE. errors and passions of a mortal; and his twelve11 anathe­mas still torture the orthodox slaves, who adore the me­mory of a saint, without forfeiting their allegiance tothe synod of Chalcedon. These bold assertions are in­delibly tinged with the colours of the Apollinarianheresy; but the serious, and perhaps the sincere, pro­fessions of Nestorius, have satisfied the wiser and lesspartial theologians of the present times/ Yet neither the emperor nor the primate ofthe east were disposed to obey the mandate ofa" Italian priest; and a synod of the Catholic,June— or rather of the Greek church, was unanimous- October* ly demanded, as the sole remedy that couldappease or decide this ecclesiastical quarrel.' Ephesus,on all sides accessible by sea and land, was chosen forthe place, the festival of Pentecost for the day, of themeeting; a writ of summons was dispatched to eachmetropolitan, and a guard was stationed to protect andconfine the fathers till they should settle the mysteriesof Heaven, and the faith of the earth. Nestoriusappeared, not as a criminal, but as a judge; he depend­ed rather on the weight than the number of his pre­lates, and his sturdy slaves from the baths of Zeuxippuswere armed for every service of injury or defence. Buthis adversary Cyril was more powerful in the weaponsboth of the flesh and of the spirit. Disobedient to theletter, or at least to the meaning, of the royal summons, 1 Concil. torn. 3. p. 943. They have never been directly approved by the church.(Tillemont, Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 368—372.) I almost pity the agony of rageand sophistry. with which Pctavius seems to be agitated in the sixth book of hisDogmata Theologies. 'Such as the rational Basnage, (ad torn. 1. Variar. Lection. Canisii in Pnrfat.c. t. p. 11—23.) and La Croze, the universal scholar. (Christianisme dee Indes,torn. 1. p. 16—20. "De 1'Ethiope, p. 26, 27. Thesaur. Epist. p. 176, &c. 283. 285.)His free sentence is confirmed by that of his friends Jablonski (Thesaur. Epist.torn. 1. p. 193—201.) and Mosheim, (idem, p. 304. Nestorium crimine caruisseest et mea sententia); and three more respectable judges will not easily be found.Asseman, a learned and modest slave, can hardly discern (Bibliothec. Orient,torn. 4. p. 190—224.) the guilt and error of the Nestorians. •The origin and progress of the Nestorian controversy till the synod of Ephesus,may be found in Socrates, (lib. 7. c. 32.) Evagrius, (lib. 1.e. 1,2.) Liberatus,(Brev. c. 1—4.) the original Acts, (Condi, torn. 3. p. 551—991, edit. Veniac,1728.) the Annuls of Baronius and Pagi, and the faithful collections of Tillemont.(Mern. Eccles. torn. 14. p. 283—377.)