OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 23 duty, expecting from others what he had practisedhimself. XXI. The return of this tumultuous body renewed sthe troubles of the camp. The soldiers, without con­trol, issued out of the lines and pillaged the countryround. Some, more heavily loaded with booty thantheir comrades, were apprehended by the orders ofBlesus; and after receiving due. correction, thrown .4o prison, as an example to the rest. The authoritythe general was still in force with the centurions,Lnd such of the common men as retained a sense oftheir duty. The delinquents, however, refused to sub­mit ; they were dragged along, resisting with all theirstrength; they clasped the knees of the multituderound them; they called upon their fellow soldiers byname; they implored the protection of the companyto which they belonged; they invoked the cohorts andthe legions, crying out to all, that the same lot wouldshortly be their portion. Against their general theyomitted nothing that calumny could suggest; theyappealed to heaven; they implored the gods; theytried, by every topic, to excite compassion, to inflameresentment, to awaken terror, and rouse the men toacts of violence. A general insurrection followed: thesoldiers in a body rushed to the prison, burst thegates, unchained the prisoners, and associated withthemselves the vilest of the army, a band of deserters,and a desperate crew of malefactors, then under con­demnation for the enormity of their crimes. XXII. The flame of discord raged with redoubledfury. New leaders joined the mutiny. Amidst thecrowd, one of the common soldiers, a fellow knownby the name of Vibulenus, mounted on the shouldersof his comrades before the tribunal of Blesus, andaddressed the multitude, all wild with fury, and eagerto hear the language of sedition. " My friends," saidhe," you have bravely interposed to save the lives" of these innocent, these much injured men. You" have restored them to new life. But who will re-" store my brother ? who will give him to my arms ?" Sent hither from the German army, in concert with"you to settle measures for our common safety, he