OCR Output C. VIII.] SIEGE OF THE UPPER CITY. 287 by himself, that so they might bring out their families withthem, yet did he receive such as these also. However, he setover them such as were to distinguish some from others, inorder to see if any of them deserved to be punished. And,indeed, the number of those that were sold was immense;but of the populace above forty thousand were saved, whomCaesar let go whither every one of them pleased. 3. But now at this time it was that one of the priests, theson of Thebuthus, whose name was Jesus, upon his havingsecurity given him by the oath of Caesar, that he should bepreserved, upon condition that he should deliver to him cer­tain of the precious things that had been reposited in thetemple,1 came out of it, and delivered him from the wall ofthe holy house two candlesticks, like to those that lay in theholy house, with tables, and cisterns, and vials, all made ofsolid gold, and very heavy. He also delivered to him theveils and the garments, with the precious stones, and a greatnumber of other precious vessels that belonged to their sacredworship. The treasurer of the temple also, whose name wasPhineas, was seized on, and showed Titus the coats and gir­dles of the priests, with a great quantity of purple and scar­let, which were there reposited for the uses of the veil, asalso a great deal of cinnamon and cassia,2 with a large quan­tity of other sweet spices, which used to be mixed together,and offered as incense to God every day. A great manyother treasures were also delivered to him, with sacred orna­ments of the temple not a few; which things thus deliveredto Titus obtained of him for this man the same pardon thathe had allowed to such as deserted of their own accord. 4. And now were the banks finished on the seventh day ofthe month Gorpieus [Elul,] in eighteen days' time, when theRomans brought their machines against the wall. But for 1 What became of these spoils of tho temple that escaped the fire, see Jo-sephus himself hereafter, B. vii. ch. v. sect. 5, and Roland de Spoliis Temj>li,p. 129-138. 3 These various sorts of spices, even, moro than those four which Mosesprescribed, Exod. xxxi. 34, we see were used in the public worship underHerod's temple, particularly cinnamon and cassia; which Reland takes par­ticular notice of, as agreeing with the later testimony of the Talmudists.