OCR Output 90 THE DECLINE AND FALL rations, both of the attack and defence, were conducted with skilful obstinacy; andeach party derived useful lessons from the experience of their past faults. A bat­tering ram was invented, of light construction and powerful effect; it was trans­ported and worked by the hands of forty soldiers; and as the stones were loosenedby its repeated strokes, they were torn with long iron hooks from the wall. Fromthose walls, a shower of darts was incessantly poured on the heads of the assailants;but they were most dangerously annoyed by a fiery composition of sulphur and bi­tumen, which in Colehos might, with some propriety, be named the oil of Medea,Of six thousand Romans who mounted the scaling-ladders, their general Bessaswas the first, a gallant veteran of seventy years of age: the courage of their leader,his fall, and extreme danger, animated the irresistible efforts of his troops; andtheir prevailing numbers oppressed the strength, without subduing the spirit, ofthe Persian garrison. The fate of these valiant men deserves to be more distinctlynoticed. Seven hundred had perished in the siege; two thousand three hundredsurvived to defend the breach. One thousand and seventy were destroyed withfire and sword in the last assault; and if seven hundred and thirty were made pri­soners, only eighteen among them were found without the marks of honourablewounds. The remaining five hundred escaped-into the citadel, which they main­tained without any hopes of relief, rejecting the fairest terms of capitulation andservice, till they were lost in the flames. They died in obedience to the commandsof their prince; and such examples of loyalty and valour might excite their coun­trymen to deeds of equal despair and more prosperous event. The instant demo­lition of the works of Petra confessed the astonishment and apprehension of theconqueror. A Spartan would have praised and pitied the virtue of these heroic slaves; butthe tedious warfare and alternate success of the Roman and Persian arms cannotdetain the attention of posterity at the foot of mount Caucasus. The advantagesobtained by the troops of Justinian were more frequent and splendid; but the forcesof the great king were continually supplied, till they amounted to eight elephantsand seventy thousand men, including twelve thousand Scythian allies, and abovethree thousand Dilemites, who descended by their free choice from the hills ofHyrcania, and were equally formidable in close or in distant combat. The siegeof Archseopolis, a name imposed or corrupted by the Greeks, wasraised with someloss and precipitation; but the Persians occupied the passes of Iberiar Colehos wasenslaved by their forts and garrisons; they devoured the scanty sustenance of thepeople; and the prince of the Lazi fled into the mountains. In the Roman campfaith and discipline were unknown; and the independent leaders, who were invest­ed with equal power, disputed with each other the pre-eminence of vice and cor­ruption. The Persians followed without a murmur the commands of a single chief,who implicitly obeyed the instructions of their supreme lord. Their general wasdistinguished among the heroes of the east by his wisdom in council, and his valourin the field. The advanced age of Mermeroes, and the lameness of both his feet,could not diminish the activity of his mind, or even of his body; and whilst hewas carried in a litter in the front of battle, he inspired terror to the enemy, and ajust confidence to the troops, who, under his banners, were always successful. Af­ter his death, the command devolved to Nacoragan, a proud satrap, who, in con­ference with the inferior chiefs, had presumed to declare that he disposed of victo­ry as absolutely as of the ring on his finger. Such presumption was the naturalcause and forerunner of a shameful defeat. The Romans had been gradually re­pulsed to the edge of the sea-shore; and their last camp, on the ruins of the Gre­cian colony of Phasis, was defended on all sides by strong intrenchments, the river,the Euxine, and a fleet of galleys. Despair united their councils and invigoratedtheir arms; they withstood the assaults of the Persians; and the flight of Nacoraganpreceded or followed the slaughter of ten thousand of his bravest soldiers. He es­caped from the Romans to fall into the hands of an unforgiving master, who severe­ly chastised the error of his own choice; the unfortunate general was flayed alive, andhis skin, stuffed into the human form, was exposed on a mountain; a dreadful warn­ing to those who might hereafter be intrusted with the fame and fortune of Per­sia. (1) Yet the prudence of Chosroes insensibly relinquished the prosecution ofthe Colchian war, in the just persuasion that it is impossible to reduce, or at leastto hold, a distant country against the wishes and efforts of its inhabitants. The % (l) The punishment of flaying alive pould not be introdnced into Persia by Sapor (BrisondeRegn. Pen. lib.h. p. 578.,) nor coo Id it be copied from the foolish tale of Marsyai, the Phrygian piper, most foolishly quoted a»a precedent by Agatbias, (lib. iy. p. US, 13S.)