OCR Output I On his Qualifications as a Historian. " Thucydides. He hath indeed been praised by all; I own" it; but, as a man, who was an explainer of facts with" prudence, severity, and gravity: Not as a speaker at the" bar, but a historical relater of wars. And therefore he was" never numbered amongst the orators." Cicero learnednothing from him: He could not, neither, in his own words," would he if he could." His talents were different; hewas quite in all respects accomplished; he was eloquenceitself. But Demosthenes—and can there be higher praise ?—Demosthenes certainly loved, and studied Thucydides;for whose perfection I am not arguing; I would only esta­blish his character of loftiness and sublimity. Longinus*proposeth him as the model of true grandeur and exaltationin writing history. And now I have mentioned this princely and most ju­dicious critic, let us call Thucydides to take a trial at hisbar, and see whether he hath all the genuine constituents ofthe true sublime.—For elevation of thought, for his powerin alarming and interesting the passions, for his bold and fre­quent use of figures, his character will soon be established.Even Dionysius of Halicarnassus bears testimony here, wholoved him not, and would have been glad to degrade him.Plutarch calls him the most pathetic, and a writer of thegreatest energy and variety that ever was. The scenes inhis history are strong, most expressive paintings. He makesthe past to be present; he makes hearing sight. In thevery words of Plutarchf—" His readers are thrown into" the same astonishment and hurry of passion, as the eye-" witnesses to every scene must have felt. Demosthenes" drawing up his men on the craggy shore of Pylus—Bra-" sidas calling out on his pilot to run the vessel ashore, get-" ting himself on the stairs, then wounded, fainting, falling" down on the gunnel; here, the Spartans fighting a land-" battle from the water, the Athenians a naval-battle from the shore ;—and again, in the Sicilian war, the land-• On the Sublime. Stfctiun 14. t De Gloria Atheniensium.