OCR Output CHAP. 14. ftOMAN HISTORY! 2-23 rigorously exacted of the father; so that having sold thebetter part of his estate, he lived for some time, like anexile, in a retired and solitary cottage, on the other sideof the Tiber. CHAP. XIV. The young Nobility, by their complaisance, get the betterof the Tribunes. J. HIS trial and promulgation of the law, kept thewhole city employed, for there was no foreign war todisturb them. The tribunes, as if they had really ob­tained a victory, concluded, that now, the Patricians be-ing effectually intimidated, by the banishment of Caeso,that they were at last secure of getting the bill passed;and, thai the elder senators, having withdrawn them­selves, in a great measure from the administration, seem­ed to yield to them all authority in the state. The young nobility, especially the late companionsof Caeso, without any diminution of their courage, be­came still more incensed against the plebeians. But inone respect, they were much improved, for they hadlearned to manage their fury with more caution. Themoment the law was proposed, after the banishment ofCaEso, being quite prepared, and supported by a greatnumber of their clients, whenever the tribunes furnished:them with an excuse for violence, by attempting to re­move them from the assembly, they attacked them insuch a manner, that no one of the assailants could besingled out as the author, to incur the odium or the ho­nour. The people complained, that instead of one Caeso,they had now to straggle with a thousand. In the intermediate days, when the law was not inquestion, no men were more composed or complaisant,than these young nobles. They addressed the commons.with the greatest shew of affability, entered into the mostfamiliar conversation with them, inviting them to theirhouses, assembling with them in the forum, and in othermatters, suffering the tribunes to hold their plebeiancouncils, without the least interruption. Neither in pub­lic^ nor in private, did they discover any rancour, ex-