OCR Output 356 THE SULLAN CONSTITCTION. [Book IV. lowest Latin rights.* Sulla thus avoided furnishing theopposition with any nucleus in Italian subject-communitiesof inferior rights; the homeless dispossessed necessarily soondisappeared in the mass of the proletariate. In Campanianot only was the democratic colony of Capua done away andits domain given back to the state, as was naturally to beexpected, but the island of JSnaria (Ischia) was also, pro­bably about this time, withdrawn from the community ofNeapolis. In Latium the whole territory of the large andwealthy city of Praeneste and probably of Norba also wasconfiscated, as was likewise that of Spoletium in Umbria.Sulmo in the Paelignian district was even razed. But theiron arm of the regent fell with especial weight on the tworegions, which had offered a serious resistance up to the endand even after the battle at the Colline gate—Etruria andSamnium. There a number of the most considerable com­munes, such as Florentia, Faesulae, Arretium, Volaterrae,were visited with total confiscation. Of the fate of Samniumwe have already spoken; there was no confiscation there,but the land was laid waste for ever, its flourishing towns,even the former Latin colony of JEsernia, were left in ruins,and the country was placed on the same footing with theBruttian and Lucanian regions.Assigna- These arrangements as to the property of the Italian soil tions to the placed on the one hand those Roman domain lands, whichsoldiers. ^ad been handed over in usufruct to the former allied com­munities and now on their dissolution reverted to theRoman government, and on the other hand the confiscatedterritories of the communities incurring punishment, at thedisposal of the regent; and he employed them for the pur­pose of settling thereon the soldiers of the victorious army.Most of these new settlements were directed towardsEtruria, as for instance to Eaesulae and Arretium, others toLatium and Campania, where Praeneste and Pompeii among * Vol. I. 432. To this was added the peculiar aggravation that, while in otherinstances the right of the Latins like that of the peregn'ni implied membership. in a definite Latin or foreign community, in this case—just as with the laterfreedmeu of Latin and deditician rights (comp. p. 256, note)—it was withoutanv such right of membership. The consequence was, that these Latins weredestitute of the privileges attaching to a civic constitution, and, strictly speak­ing, could not even make a testament, since no one could execute a testamentotherwise than according to the law of his town; they could probably, how­ever, acquire under Roman testaments, and could among the living hold dealingswith each other and with Romans or Latins in the forms of Roman law.