OCR Output 118 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 771 in allusion to the place of his coronation. About thesame time, the Cappadocians, who had been reduced Ito the form of a province, received Quintus Veraniusas their governor. The first measure of his adminis­tration was, to remit part of the taxes heretofore paidto their kings; that from so mild a beginning, thepeople might conceive a favourable idea of Romanmoderation. The Comagenians, in like manner, sub­mitted to the government of a prsetor, and QuintusServseus was appointed to the office. LVII. In this manner tranquillity was establishedin the east. The events were important, and such asmight have given Germanicus reason to congratulatehimself; but his joy was poisoned by the repeatedhostilities and the insolence of Fiso. This man hadorders to march with a detachment of the legions intoArmenia, or, at his option, to give the command tohis son. He complied in neither instance. Theprince met him at Cyrrum, the winter quarters of thetenth legion. At that place they came to an inter­view, both with countenances adjusted to the occa- :sion. Piso with an air of intrepidity, still disdaininga superior; and Germanicus with the serenity of aman, who wished to stifle his resentment. The gen­tle qualities of his nature inclined him at all times tomoderation; but his friends, with the ulSual talent ofmen who love to make bad worse, inflamed the quar­rel. They aggravated what was true; they gavecolour to falsehood ; and omitted nothing to the disad­vantage of Piso, Plancina, and their sons. In the presence of a few select friends, Germanicuscame to an explanation : his language was in thatmeasured style, which anger and prudence, combatingeach other, usually inspire. Piso made an arrogantapology. The meeting broke up, and both retiredwith smothered resentment. From this time Pisorarely attended the tribunals of justice: whenever heappeared in court, his countenance plainly discoveredill-will, and sullen discontent. At a banquet givenby the Nabathean king, a sudden expression fell fromhim, and betrayed his real temper. Golden crownswere presented to the company; two, for Germanicus