OCR Output 720 THE HISTORY $ oo K ill-treatment, and an army was fent to Algidumt J.'1^ . againft the Romans. When the news of thefe tranf-Y.R. 189. actions was brought to Rome, the indignity of theB. C'.463. aftair, rather than the danger, called out the otherconful from the city, and the two confular armies ad­vanced to the enemy in order of battle, prepared foran immediate engagement. But this happeningpretty late in the day, a perfon called out from oneof the enemy's pofts, "Romans, this is making an"oftentatious parade, not waging war: ye draw up"your forces for battle, when night is at hand. We"require a greater length of day-light to decide the"conteft which is to come on: return into the field"to-morrow at fun-rife; ye fhall have an oppor-"tunity of fighting, doubt it not." The foldierswere led back into camp until the next day, highlyirritated by thofe expreffions, and thinking the ap­proaching night too long, which was to occafion adelay to the combat: the intervening time theyemployed in refrefhing themfelves with food andfleep. Next morning, as foon as it was light, theRoman army were the firft, by a confiderable time,to take their poft in the field. At length, the/Equans alfo came forward. The battle was foughtwith great fury on both fides, for the Romans wereitimulated both by anger and hatred, and the ./Equans,confcious that the dangers to which they were ex-pofed were the confequence of their own crimes,and defpairing of ever being treated with confidencein future, felt a necefiity of trying the moft deiperateexertions. However, they were net able to with-ftand the Roman troops. They were driven fromthe field, and retreated to their own territories;where the outrageous multitude, not at all the moredifpofed to peace, cenfured their leaders for havinghazarded fuccefs in a pitched battle in the field; amanner of fighting in which the Romans pofiefiedfuperior frill. The Equans, they faid, were betterfitted for predatory expeditions; and there was bet­ter