OCR Output CHAP. LIT. 513 Christian galleys, which preserved their advantageousstation along the coast. The victory inclined to the sideof the allies, when it was less gloriously decided in theirfavour by a sudden tempest, which confounded the skilland courage of the stoutest mariners. The Christianswere sheltered'in a friendly harbour, while the Africanswere scattered and dashed in pieces among the rocks andislands of a hostile shore. Those who escaped fromshipwreck and hunger, neither found nor deserved mercyat the hands of their implacable pursuers. The swordand the gibbet reduced the dangerous multitude of cap足tives; and the remainder was more usefully employed,to restore the sacred edifices which they had attemptedto subvert. The pontiff, at the head of the citizens andallies, paid his grateful devotion at the shrines of theapostles; and among the spoils of this naval victory,thirteen Arabian bows of pure and massy silver weresuspended round the altar of the fishermen of Galilee.The reign of Leo the Fourth was employed in the de足fence and ornament of the Roman state. The churcheswere renewed and embellished; near four thousandpounds of silver were consecrated to repair the losses ofSt. Peter; and his sanctuary was decorated with a plateof gold the weight of two hundred and sixteen pounds,embossed with the portraits of the pope and emperor,and encircled with a string of pearls. Yet this vain mag足nificence reflects less glory on the character of Leo, thanthe paternal care with which he rebuilt the walls of Hortaand A menu; and transported the wandering inhabitantsof Centumcellae to his new foundation of Leopolis,twelve miles from the sea-shore." By his liberality a co足lony of Corsicans, with their wives and children, wasplanted in the station of Porto at the mouth of the Tyber;the falling city was restored for their use, the fields andvineyards were divided among the new settlers: their Beretti (Thorographia Italis Medii .I'.vi, p. 106. 108.,) has illustrated Cen-i'Ilu., Leopolia, Ciritaa Leonina, and the other places of the Roman dutchy. VOL. VI. 2 L