OCR Output PALAESTINA. I'ALAKSTINA. between Ekron and Gaza, which the Israelites did notoccupy; in the mountains 11+9+ 10+6 + 2 =35 cities, with their villages; and in the wilderness,i. e, the western side of tlie Dead Sea, 6 towns andtheir villages; in nil, according to the Hebrew ver­sion, no less than 112 towns, exclusive of theirfuture capital, of which the Jebusite still held pos­sesion. But the Septuagint version inserts thenames of 11 other cities in the mountain district,among which arc the important towns Bethlehemanil Tekoa, which would make the total 123 in thetribe of Judah alone, implying an enormous popu­lation, even if we admit that these towns were onlylarge villages with scattered hamlets. It must beremarked, however, that tlie tribe of Simeon wascomprehended within the limits above assigned tothe tribe of Judah; and that 17 cities in the southof Judah are referred to Simeon, as is expresslystated: "Out of tlie portion of the children of Judahwas the inheritance of the children of Simeon: forthe part uf the children of Judah was too much forthem; therefore the children of Simeon had theirinheritance within the inheritance of them" (Josh.xis. 1— It.) As Simeon possessed the southern part of the ter­ritory assigned to Judah, so did tlie tribe of Dan im­pinge upon its north-west border; and in the list ofits seventeen cities are some before assigned toJudah (Josh. xix. 41—46); a limited extent ofterritory on the confines of the plain of the Philis­tines, from which they early sent out a colony to theextreme north of the Holy Land, where their city,synonymous with their tribe, situated at the southernbase of Mount Hcrmon, became proverbial in Israelfor the worship of the golden calf. (Jtaiijes, xviii.) Benjamin.— The tribe of Benjamin was boundedby Jud:ili on the south, by the Jordan on the east.The northern line was drawn from Jericho west­ward through the mountains, by Bethel and Ata-roth-adar, to a hill that lay to the south of thelower Belh-horon, from « Inch j*>int the boundary wasdrawn to Kirjath-jcarim of the tribe of Judah.They po*se>sed twenty-six cities, including Jeru­salem. (Josh, xviii. 11—28.) It is evidentthat Josephus is mistaken in stating that they ex­tended in length from Jordan to the sea; for it isclear that tlie tribe of Dan and the plain of 1'hilistialay between them and the Mediterranean. Hisremark that the width of their territory was least ofall, is more accurate, though his explanation of thefact may be doubted, when he ascribes it to thefruitfulness of the hmd, which, he adds, compre­hended Jericho and Jerusalem. Epkmim.—Tlie tribe uf Kphraim was contermi­nous on the south with the tribe of Benjamin, asfar as the western extremity of the hitler; fromwhence it passed by Tappuah and the river Kanahto the sea. On the east side are named Ataroth-addar and Beth-horon the upper, and on the north,beginning at the sea and going east, Michmethah,Taanath-shiloh, Jaiiohah, Ataroth, Xaarath, Jericho,ami the Jordan. The cities of Kphraim are notcatalogue,!; but it is remarked that " the separatecities tor the children of Kphraim were among theinheritance of the children of Manasseh, all thecities with their villages" (xri. f>—9). Accordingto Josephus it extended in width from Bethel evento the great plain of Ksdraelon. Mnnasseh.—The portion of Managed on tlie we>tof Jordan was contiguous to that of Kphraim, andappears to have been allotted to the two tribes I jointly, as the same boundaries are aligned V-V.^I (xvi. L—4. com p. 5-—8 with xvii. "—10). W: ageneral the southern part was Ephraim, i'i :.unorth Manasseh, which latter also possessed ttn<»in the borders of Asher anil Issachar, as Betkbaaand Kndor, on the east, in Issachar. ami Tit-ira.Megiddo, and Dor, on the west, in Asher (vw. Hi­lt will have been seen that these twin tritenot extend as far as the Jordan eastward, bo: taltheir eastern boundary excluded the vaIW of taJordan, and formed, with their northern bwi&iin, icurved line from Jericho to the sea, south ii ileaCarmel. Issachar.—This tribe covered the whole of linorth-east frontier of Manasseh and EphninLOiicomprehended the valley of the Jordan wtUt»bfrom Jericho to Mount Tabor, and the ea^era]*of the plain of Ksdraelon, in which Tabor U siTuatiicontaining sixteen cities, among which were Sua*and Jezreel of Scripture note, the latter tor tusyears the capita! of the kingdom of Israel. Asher.—To the west of Issachar was Ash*.*cupying the remainder of the rmlley of EsIt**now the Plain of Acre, and extending »laa£ Icoast of the Mediterranean, from Mount CanwtSidon. Our ignorance of the modern eeogr^*Upper Galilee does not allow us to assign it^ iwto the east; but there is little doubt that car*inquiry would still recover the sites at least cf*of their twenty-two cities, and so restore toe ***boundary of their territory, which extended illthe western borders of" Zebu Inn and Nsphtnh, witwo tribes occupied the highlands of Galilee »extremity of the Land of Promise,j Zebvlun.— Of these two, Zebulun was toI south, contiguous to Issachar, having toe s*JTiberias for its eastern boundary, as far prrbi:ithe mouth of the northern Jordan. None 4twelve cities can now be identified with ceru*but Japhia is probably represented bvthf3i>ivillage of Yapha, in the plain, not far to tfie *of Nazareth, which was certainly situated *ithe borders of this tribe; and Bethlehem may.1great probability, be placed at the mi J*"T. vi:j<btitlakemy not far from the ruins ot Stryp^e*the north-west. [Caksarea-Dio. J Xophtali.—The northernmost of* tie intoNaphtali, bounded by the Upper Jordan on It*from its source to its mouth, near which «a* iated the city of Capernaum, expresslr drr AT*St. Matthew to have been in the borders of 7Aand Naphtali (iv. 13). On the south was IA\on the west A>her, and on the north tiit r>iLibanus and the valley of Coelesyria, now eau'wBtlkaa. Of their nineteen cities K.cd*sJi i, most noted in Scripture history; and its ruin*.*'ing under tlie same name at this da*. *U«ancient importance. Josephus absnrdlr atheir territory to Damascus, if the reading toj corrupt, as Be land suspects. Having completed this surrey of the trfimay be remarked iu anticipation of lb* ttx4I section, that the subsequent divisions of lb* «followed very much the divisions of the tnsesi1 the district of Judaea was formed \*r £T«I together the tribes of Judah. Simeon, ttea Benjamin; Samaria was coextensive with| and the half of Manasseh; Issachar amd A-V-1[tied Lower Galilee; Zebulun and XaphtaliGalilee. I Trans-Jordanic trCbeg, — A few w-ged* m