OCR Output C. I.] SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. 161 whereas the other sides of that court had so many steps aswould not let them come nigh enough to the cloisters. 6. Thus did John hope to be too hard for his enemies bythese engines, constructed by his impiety ; but God himselfdemonstrated that his pains would prove of no use to him, bybringing the Romans upon him before he had reared any ofhis towers ; for Titus, when he had gotten together part ofhis forces about him, and had ordered the rest to meet himat Jerusalem, marched out of Caesarea. He had with himthose three legions that had accompanied his father when helaid Judea waste, together with that twelfth legion which hadbeen formerly beaten with Cestius: which legion, as it wasotherwise remarkable for its valor, so did it march on nowwith greater alacrity to avenge themselves on the Jews, asremembering what they had formerly suffered from them.Of these legions he ordered the fifth to meet him, by goingthrough Emmaus, and the tenth to go up by Jericho; healso moved himself together with the rest: besides whichmarched those auxiliaries that came from the kings, beingnow more in number than before, together with a consider­able number that came to his assistance from Syria. Thosealso that had been selected out of these four legions, and sentwith Mucianus to Italy, had their places filled up out of thosesoldiers that came out of Egypt with Titus, which were twothousand men, chosen out of the armies at Alexandria. Therefollowed him also three thousand, drawn from those thatguarded the river Euphrates; as also there came TiberiusAlexander, who was a friend of his, most valuable both forhis good-will to him and for his prudence. He had formerlybeen governor of Alexandria, but was now thought worthyto be general of the army under [Titus.] The reason ofthis was, that he had been the first who encouraged Vespasianvery lately to accept this his new dominion, and joined him­self to him with great fidelity, when things were uncertain,and fortune had not yet declared for him. He also followedTitus as a counsellor, very useful to him in this war, both byhis age and skill in such affairs. 14*