OCR Output ISSUS. IS™ A. From the Saras the army marched 5 parasangs tothe Pyramus, which was crossed where it was GOOGreek feet wide; and tin' march from the Pyramusto Issus was 1") parasangs. Accordingly, the wholedistance marched from Tarsus to Issus was 30parusangs. The direct distance from Tarsus to thehead of the gulf is ahout 56 geographical miles; andthese two points are very nearly in the tame lati­tude. The modern road from Tarsus, throughAdana on the Sarus, and Mopsncstia on the Py­ramus, to the head of t lie gulf, lias a general direc­tion from W. to E. The length of Cyrus's march,from Tarsus to the Sarus, exceeds the direct dis­tance "ii the map very much, if we reckon the para-sang at 3 geographical miles; for 10 parasnngs are30 geographical miles, and the direct distance toAdana is not more than 16 miles. Mr. Ahisworthinforms us that the Sarus is not fordable at Adana;and Cyrus probably crossed at some other place.The inarch from the Sarus to the Pyramus was 5para-anus, or 15 geographical miles; and this appearsto he 'v ery nearly tlie direct distance from Adana toJJopsuestia (Muiis), But Cyrus may have crossedsome distance below Mopsuestia, without lengthen­ing his march from the Sarus to the Pyramus; andhe may have done this even if he had to go lowerdown the Sarus than Adana to find a ford. If liedid not go higher up the Pyramus to seek a ford,for the reasons which Mr. Ains worth mentions, hemust have crossed lower down than Mopsuestia.The distance from the point where the supposed oldbed begins to turn to the south, to the NE. end ofthe gulf of Issus,is 40 geographical miles; and thusthe distance of 15 parasangs from the passage ofthe Pyramus to Issus, is more easily reconciled withthe real distance than the measurement from Tarsusto the Sarus. The places not absolutely determined on or nearthe gulf of Issus, are: Myriandrus, Nicopolis, Epi-phaneia [Epiphaneia], Arae Alexandri, and Issus,though we know that Issus, must have been at thehead of the gulf and on it. The following extractfrom Colonel Chesney contains the latest informationoil these sites;—"About 7 miles south-eastwardfrom the borders of Syria are the remains of a con­siderable city, probably those of Issus or Nicopolis,with tlie ruins of a temple, a part of the Acropolis,an extensive aqueduct, generally with a double rowof arches, running ESE. and WNW. These, in ad­dition to the walls of the city itself, are entirely builtof lava, and still exist in considerable perfection.Nearly 14 miles southward from thence, the DeliChaV quits the foot of the Amanus in two branches,which, after traversing the Issic plain, unite at thefoot of tlie mountain just previously to entering thesea. The principal of these brandies makes a deepcurve towards the NE., so that a body of troop*occupying one side might see behind and outflankthose posted on the opposite side, in which, as wellas in other respects, tlie stream appears to answerto the Pinarus of Alexander's historians. A littlesouthward of this river are the castle, khan, bazar,baths, and other ruins of Bay as, once Baiae, withthe three villages of Kuretur in the neighbourhood,situated in the midst of groves of orange and palmtrees. Again. 5 miles southward, is the pass, aboveindit ed, of Sukal-tulan, and at nearly the same dis­tance onward, the fine bay and anchorage of Iskende-run, with an open but convenient landing-place on abold beach; but, in consequence of the accumulationof the sand by which the mouths of the streams j descending from this part of the Amanus are choked,| a pestilential swamp extends from the very edge i>fthe sea almost to the foot of the mountain. In themarsh towards the latter are some trifling ruins,j which may possibly he tlie site of ancient Myrian­drus; and within a mile of the shore are the remainsof a castle and bridge constructed by Godfrey ofBouillon." (Expedition for the Surrey of the RittriEuphrates owl Tigris, vol, i. p. 408.) There is no direct proof here that these remainsare those of Issus. The aqueduct probably belongs! to the Roman period. It seems most likely thatI the remains are those of Nicopolis, and that K>usI on the coast lias disappeared. Colonel Chesney's\ description of the bend of one of the brandies ofthe Deli Tschai corresponds to Arrian's (ii. 2. § 10),who says, " Darius placed at the fixit of the moun­tain, which was on the Persian left and ophite toAlexander's right, about 20.000 men; and some ofthem were on the rear of Alexander's army. Forthe mountain where they were jested in one placeopened to some depth, and so a part became of theform of a bay on the sea. Darius then, by ad­vancing further to the bend, brought the men whowere posted at the foot of the mountain, in the rearof the right wing of Alexander." There still seems some doubt about the site ofMyriandrus, which Mr. Ainswoith (Travels in theTrack of the Ten Thousand, tfc. p. 60) places abouthalf way between Scanderotxi and Hhosus (Arsus);anil he has the authority of Strabo. in his enumera­tion of the places on this coast, and that of Ptolemy,who places Myriandrus 15' south of Alexandria adIssum. As to Arsus, he observes, — "there aremany ruins, and especially a long aqueduct leadingfrom the foot of the mountains." [G. L.] ISTAEVONES. [Germania and Hillevi- ONES.] ISTER. [Dam-ism*.] I'STHMIA, a small district in Thessaly. [Zela- SI I'M.] ISTHMUS. [Cokinthi-s, p. GS2, seq.] ISTO'NE. [Cokcyra.] ISTO'NIUM. [Ckltihkuta.] !'STRIA ('IffTpi'a) or HI'STRIA, was the namegiven by the Greeks and Romans to the countrywhich still bears the same appellation, and forms apeninsula of somewhat triangular form near the headof the Adriatic sea, running out from the coast ofLiburnia, between Tcrgeste (Trieste) and the SinusFlanaticus, or Gulf if Qustmero. It is about 50G. miles in length, and 35 in breadth, while theisthmus or strip of land between the two gulfs ofTrieste and Qtutrnero, by which it is united to themainland, is about 27 G. miles across. The nameis derived both by (.Ireek and Latin authors from thefabulous notion entertained at a very early periodthat one branch or arm of the Danube (the Ister ofthe Greeks) flowed into the Adriatic sea near itshead. (Strab. i. p. 57; Plin. Hi. 18. s. 22.) Thedeep inlets and narrow channels with which thecoasts of the Adriatic are intersected for a consider­able distance below the peninsula of Istria may havecontributed to favour this notion so long as thosecoasts were imperfectly known; and hence we cannotwonder at Seylax speaking of a river named Istnis(which he identifies with the Danube) as flowingthrough the land of the Istrians (Scyl. p. 6. § 20);but it seems incredible that an author like Mela,writing in the days of Augustus, should not onlyspeak of a river Ister as (lowing into this part of the