OCR Output 214 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. had made them very strong, both in the edifices erected, and inthe garrisons placed in them, he came to Joppa, and when hehad taken it, he brought a great garrison into it, for he heardthat the people of Joppa were disposed to deliver up the city toDemetrius' generals. 11. When Simon and Jonathan had finished these affairs, theyreturned to Jerusalem, where Jonathan gathered all the peopletogether, and took counsel to restore the walls of Jerusalem, andto rebuild the wall that encompassed the temple, which had beenthrown down, and to make the places adjoining stronger by veryhigh towers; and besides that, to build another wall in the midstof the city, in order to exclude the market-place from the gar­rison, which was in the citadel, and by that means to hinder themfrom any plenty of provisions; and moreover, to make the for­tresses that were in the country much stronger, and more defen­sible, than they were before. And when these things were ap­proved of by the multitude, as rightly proposed, Jonathan him­self took care of the building that belonged to the city, and sentSimon away to make the fortresses in the country more securethan formerly. But Demetrius passed over [Euphrates,] andcame into Mesopotamia, as desirous to retain that country still,as well as Babylon; and when he should have obtained the do­minion of his upper provinces, to lay a foundation for recover­ing his entire kingdom; for those Greeks and Macedonians whodwelt there, frequently sent ambassadors to him, and promised,that if he would come to them, they would deliver themselvesup to him, and assist him in fighting against * Arsaces, the kingof the Parthians. So he was elevated with these hopes, andcame hastily to them, as having resolved that, if he had onceoverthrown the Parthians, and gotten an army of his own, hewould make war against Trypho, and eject him out of Syria;and the people of that country received him with great alacrity.So he raised forces, with which he fought against Arsaces, andlost all his army, and was himself taken alive, as we have else­where related. * This king, who was of the famous race of Arsaces, is both here, and 1 Mac.Jtiv. 2. called by the family name Arsaces, but Appion says, his proper name wasPhrates. He is here also called by Joscplius the king of the Far/hums, as theGreeks used to call them, but by the elder author of the first Maccabees the kingaf the Persians and Males, according to the language of the eastern nations. Seeftuthent. Rec. part. II. p. 1108.