OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL be reduced by a civil war under the dominion of one master; butif the separation was permanent, the division of the provinces mustterminate in the dissolution of an empire whose unity had hithertoremained inviolate *°.Murder of Had the treaty been carried into execution, the sovereign of Europe Gets a. D. zi2. would soon have been the conqueror of Asia; but Caracalla obtaineda7thFebru- an ea{ier though a more guilty victory. He artfully listened to hismother's entreaties, and consented to meet his brother in her apart­ment, on terms of peace and reconciliation. In the midst of theirconversation, some centurions, who had contrived to conceal them­selves, rushed with drawn swords upon the unfortunate Geta. Hisdistracted mother strove to protect him in her arms; but in the una­vailing struggle, she was wounded in the hand, and covered withthe blood of her younger son, while she saw the elder animating andassisting" the fury of the assassins. As soon as the deed was perpe­trated, Caracalla, with hasty steps and horror in his countenance,ran towards the Prætorian camp as his only refuge, and threw him­self on the ground before the statues of the tutelar deities Thesoldiers attempted to raise and comfort him. In broken and dis­ordered words he informed them of his imminent danger and for­tunate escape; insinuated that he had prevented the designs of hisenemy* and declared his resolution to live and die with his faithfultroops. Geta had been the favourite of the soldiers; but complaintwas useless, revenge was dangerous, and they still reverenced the sonof Severus- Their discontent died away in idle murmurs, andCaracalla soon convinced them of the justice of his cause, by distri­buting in one lavish donative the accumulated treasures of his father'sreign The real sentiments of the soldiers alone were of import­ance to his power or safety. Their declaration in his favour,commanded the dutiful professions of the senate. The obsequiousassembly was always prepared to ratify the decision of fortune;hut as. Caracalla wished to assuage the first emotions of public indig­nation*