OCR Output 416 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. thinking him to be his friend by this advice, gave him presents,upon all occasions, and at length persuaded him to informHerod of what he had heard. So when he related to the kingAlexander's ill temper, as discovered by the words he had hearrlhim speak, he was easily believed by him, and he thereby broughtthe king to that pass, turning him about by his words, and ir­ritating him, till he increased his hatred to him, and made himimplacable, which he showed at that very time, for he imme­diately gave Eurycles a present of fifty talents; who, when hehad gotten them, went to Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, andcommended Alexander before him, and told him that he hadbeen many ways of advantage to him in making a reconciliationbetween him and his father. So he got money from him also,and went away, before his pernicious practices were found out;but when Eurycles was returned to Lacedemon, he did notleave off doing mischief, and so, for his many acts of injustice,he was banished from his own country. 2. But as for the king of the Jews, he was not now in thetempeV he was in formerly towards Alexander and Aristobulus,when he had been content with the hearing their calumnieswhen others told him of them, but he was now come to that passas to hate them himself, and to urge men to speak against them,though they did not do it of themselves. He also observed allthat was said, and put questions, and gave ear to every onethat would but speak, if they could but say any thing againstthem, till at length he heard that Euaratus of Cos was a con­spirator with Alexander, which thing to Herod was the mostagreeable and sweetest news imaginable. 3. But still a greater misfortune came upon the young men;while the calumnies against them- were continually increased,and, as a man may say, one would think it was every one'sendeavour to lay some grievous thing to their charge;, whichmight appear to be for the king's preservation. There weretwo guards of Herod's body, who were in great esteem for theirstrength and tallness, Jucundus and Tyrannus; these men hadbeen cast off by Herod, who was displeased at them; thesenow used to ride along with Alexander, and for their skill intheir exercises were in great esteem with him, and had somegold and other gifts bestowed upon them. Now the king havingan immediate suspicion of those men, had them tortured, whoendured the torture courageously for a long time, but at lastconfessed that Alexander would have persuaded them to killHerod, when he was in pursuit of the wild beasts. That itmight be said he fell from his horse, and was run through withhis own spear, for that he had once such a misfortune formerly.They also showed where there was. money hidden in the stable