OCR Output MEROE. 331 MERTJS. loftiest of these pyramids is about 160 feet inheight. Some of these have evidently been royaltombs. None of the buildings of Men*, indeed,on claim a remote antiquity. The sculptures aswell as the pyramids bear the impress of the declineof Aegyptian art, and even traces of Greek archi­tecture: and this circumstance is one of many in­dications that Meroe derived its civilisation fromAegypt, and did not, as has been supposed, transmitan earlier civilisation to the Nile valley. And yetit is not probable that Meroe received either its artser its peculiar forms of civil polity from Aegypt,either entirely, or at any very remote epoch of time.Their points of resemblance, as well as of difference,forbid the supposition of direct transmission: for,on the one hand, the architecture and sculptures ofMeroe betjay the inferiority of a later age, and itscivil government is not modelled upon that of thePharaohs. One remarkable feature in the latter isthat the sceptre was so often held by female sove­reigns; whereas in Aegypt we find a queen reg­nant only once mentioned — Nitocris, in the 3rddynasty. Again, the polity of Meroe appears tosave been in great measure sacerdotal long afterAegypt had ceased to be governed by a pure theo­cracy. Yet, that the civilisation of Meroe was in­digenous, the general barbarism of the native tribesof this portion of Libya in all ages renders highlyimprobable. From whatever quarter the rulingcute of this ancient kingdom may have come, itbean all the tokens, both in what we know of itstart, and in what is visible of its arts, of the pre­tence of a conquering race presiding over a subjectpeople. The most probable theory appears to be the fol-kming, since it will account for the inferiority of the•its and for the resemblance of the polity of Meroeto that of Aegypt:— Strabo, quoting Eratosthenes (xvii. p. 786), saysthat the Sembritae were subject to Meroe; andacain he relates, from Artemidorus, that the Sem­britae ruled Meroe. The name of Sembritae, headds, signifies immigrants, and they are governed bya qneea. Pliny (vi. 30. s. 31) mentions fourislands of the Sembritae, each containing one orawre towns, and which, from that circumstance, areevidently not mere river-islands, but tracts betweenthe streams which intersect that part of Libya — thenxdem kingdom of Setmnar. Herodotus, in whom■ UK earliest allusion to these Sembritae (ii. 30),catti them Automoli, that is voluntary exiles orimmigrants, and adds that they dwelt as far aboveMeroe, as the latter is from Syene, L e., a twoBooths' voyage np the river. Now, we know that,ia the reign of Psammetichus (b. c. 658—614), thermhtiry caste withdrew from Aegypt in anger,became their privileges had been invaded by thatmonarch; srri tradition uniformly assigns Aethiopia,• ratne came, as their place of refuge. The num­ber of these exiles was very considerable, enough —eves rf we reduce the numbers of Herodotus (ii. 31),itOXXJO, to a tenth — to enable warriors, well armed•od disciplined, to bring under subjection the scat-tewi and barbarous tribes of Sennaar. The islandsof the Sembritae, surrounded by rivers, were easy of**enee: the soil and productions of Meroe proper*oold attract exiles acccustomed to the rich Nile"Bey; while, at the distance of two month's journey,•h"? were secure against invasion from Aegypt.Hiring revolted from a king rendered powerful byka army, they would naturally establish a form of government in which the royal authority was limited;and, recurring to the era when the monarch waselected by or from the sacerdotal caste, they ap­parently reorganised a theocracy, in which the royalpower was so restricted as to admit of its being heldby male or female sovereigns indifferently,—for therewere kings as well as queens of Meroe. Again, the condition of the arts in this southernkingdom points to a similar conclusion. The pyra­mids scattered over the plains of Meroe, thoughcopied from the monuments of the Nile valley, andborrowing names from early Egyptian dynasties, areall of a comparatively recent date; long, indeed, pos­terior to the age when the arts of Aegypt werelikely either to be derived from the south, or to beconveyed up the river by conquest or commercialintercourse. The structures of Meroe, indeed, so faras they have been explored hitherto, indicate less aregular than an interrupted intercourse between thekingdoms above and below Syene, And when itis remembered that these monuments bear also manyvestiges even of later Greek and Roman times, wemay infer that the original Sembritae were, duringmany generations, recruited by exiles from Aegypt,to whom the government of their Macedonian orRoman conquerors may have been irksome or oppres­sive. Finally, the native tribes of Sennaar liveprincipally on the produce of the chase; whereas thepopulation of Meroe was agricultural. New emi­grants from Aegypt wonld naturally revert to tillage,and avail themselves of the natural productiveness ofits alluvial plains. The whole subject, indeed, is in­volved in much obscurity, since the ancient Meroe isin many parts inaccessible; partly from its immen>etracts of jungle, tenanted by wild beasts, and partlyfrom the fevers which prevail in a climate where abrief season of tropical rain is succeeded by manymouths of drought. From the little that has beendiscovered, however, we seem warranted in at leastsurmising that Meroe was indirectly a colony ofAegypt, and repeated in a rude form its peculiarcivilisation. (See Heeren, African Nations, vol. i.Aferoe; Coolev's Ptolemy and the Mile; Cailliaud,title de Mem, &c) [W. B. D." MEROM. [Palaestina.] MEItOZ (Mfpcuf), a town of Palestine, mentionedonly in Judges (v. 23), apparently situated in thevicinity of the battle-field, and in the tribe of Asber.The tradition of its site was lost as early as thetime of Procopius of Gaza, who had attempted invain to recover it. (Reland, Palaestina, 9. v. p.896.) [G. W.] MKRVA. [Gallaecia, p. 934, a.] MERULA (Merula), a river of Liguria, men­tioned only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 7), who places itbetween Albium Intemelium (Vmtimiglia) andAlbium Ingaunum (Albenga). The name is stillretained (according to the best maps) by a streamwhich flows into the Mediterranean near the Capodelle Mele, about 10 miles W. of Albenga, but morecommonly known as the Fiume dAndvra, from thevillage of that name near its mouth. [E. H. II] MEBUS (Mijpos), a town of Plirygia, which ismentioned only in the ecclesiastical writers as situ­ated in Phrygia Salutaris, on the south-east ofCotyaeum. (Hierocl. p. 677; Socrat /list Kecks.iii. 15; Sozomen,v. 11: Constant. Porphyr. de Them.i. 4.) Some believe that the ruins near Dovasldn(commonly called Doganlu), of which Fellows heard(Discov. in lycia, p. 134, &c), belong to Merus.(Cotnp. Leake, Asia Minor, p. 24,&c.) [L. S.]