OCR Output 132 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLTr. ed to the flames. The cathedral of Antioch was in«-deed preserved by the avarice, not the pity, of the con­queror: a more honourable exemption was granted tothe church of St. Julian, and the quarter of the townwhere the ambassadors resided; some distant streetswere saved by the shifting of the wind, and the walls stillsubsisted to protect, and soon to betray, their new in­habitants. Fanaticism had defaced the ornaments ofDaphne, but Chosroes breathed a purer air amidst hergroves and fountains; and some idolaters in his trainmight sacrifice with impunity to the nymphs of that ele­gant retreat. Eighteen miles below Antioch, the riverOrontes falls into the Mediterranean. The haughtyPersian visited the term of his conquests: and, after bath­ing alone in the sea, he offered a solemn sacrifice ofthanksgiving to the sun, or rather to the Creator of thesun, whom the Magi adored. If this act of superstitionoffended the prejudices of the Syrians, they were pleas­ed by the courteous and even eager attention with whichhe assisted at the games of the circus; and as Chos­roes had heard that the blue faction was espoused by theemperor, his peremptory command secured the victoryof the green charioteer. From the discipline of his campthe people derived more solid consolation; and they in­terceded in vain for the life of a soldier who had toofaithfully copied the rapine of the just Nushirvan. Atlength, fatigued, though unsatiated, with the spoil of Sy­ria, he slowly moved to the Euphrates, formed a tempo­rary bridge in the neighbourhood of Barbalissus, and de­fined the space of three days for the entire passage ofhis numerous host. After his return, he founded at thedistance of one day's journey from the palace of Ctesirphon, a new city, which perpetuated the joint names ofChosroes and of Antioch. The Syrian captives recog­nised the form and situation of their native abodes.:baths and a stately circus were constructed for their use;and a colony of musicians and charioteers revived in