OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 187 command of that province in the same manner as theyhad held it the year before. The consuls gave direc­tions for a levy of soldiers, out of whom they might atonce form the new legions for Brnttium, and fill upthe numbers of the other armies; for such were theorders of the senate. 14. Africa had not yet been publicly declared a pro­vince—the senate, I suppose, keeping the matter se­cret, lest the Carthaginians should get intelligence ofit. The city, however, was filled with sanguine hopesthat a decisive blow would soon be struck on thatshore, and that there would be an end to the Punicwar. From this cause arose abundance of supersti­tious notions; and the minds of the people becamedisposed both to believe and to propagate accounts ofprodigies, of which a very great number were re­ported: 'that two suns had been seen, and that in thenight-time light had suddenly appeared: that at Setiaa blaze like that of a torch had been observed, ex­tending from east to west: that at Tarracina a gate,and at Anagnia, both a gate and several parts of thewall had been struck by lightning: that in the templeof Juno Sospita, at Lanuvium, a great noise had beenbeard, succeeded by a dreadful crash.' For the ex­piation of these, there was a supplication of one day'scontinuance; and nine days were set apart for reli­gious offices, on account of a shower of stones thathad fallen. In addition to these matters, they had toconsult on the reception to be given to the Ideeanmother. For, besides the account brought by MarcusValerius, (one of the ambassadors who had come be­fore the rest,) that the goddess would soon be in Italy,a late account had been received that she was at Tar­racina. The senate also was engaged in the decisionof a question of no trifling importance—who was thebest man in the city? A well-grounded preference inthat point, every one would certainly value muchmore highly than any honors which could be conferredby the votes either of the senate or the people. Theygave their judgment, that Publius Scipio, son of