OCR Output 74 THE DECLINE AND FALL the fortifications of the Lower Danube; and laboured to secure the alliance of apeople seated in the direct channel of northern inundation, an interval of two hun­dred miles, between the mountains of Transylvania and the Euxine sea. But theAntes wanted power and inclination to stem the fury of the torrent: and the light-*armed Sclavonians, from a hundred tribes, pursued with almost equal speed thefootsteps of the Bulgarian horBe. The payment of one piece of gold for eachsoldier procured a safe and easy retreat through the country of the Gepidae, whocommanded the passage of the Upper Danube.(l) The hopes or fears of thebarbarians; their intestine union or discord; the accident of a frozen or shallowstream; the prospect of harvest or vintage; the prosperity or distress of the Ro­mans; were the causes which produced the uniform repetition of annual visits,(2)tedious in the narrative, and destructive in the event. The same year, and pos­sibly the same month, in which Ravenna surrendered, was marked by an inva­sion of the Huns or Bulgarians, so dreadful, that it almost effaced the memory oftheir past inroads. They spread from the suburbs of Constantinople to the IonianGulph, destroyed thirty-two cities or castles, erased Potidsea, which Athenshad built and Philip had besieged, and repassed the Danube, dragging at theirhorses' heels one hundred and twenty thousand of the subjects of Justinian. In asubsequent inroad they pierced the wall of the Thracian Chersonesus, extirpatedthe habitations and the inhabitants, boldly traversed the Hellespont, and returnedto their companions, laden with the spoils of Asia. Another party, which seemeda multitude in the eyes of the Romans, penetrated, without opposition, from thestraits of Thermopyls to the isthmus of Corinth; and the last ruin of Greece hasappeared an object too minute for the attention of history. The works whichthe emperor raised for the protection, but at the expense of his subjects, servedonly to disclose the weakness of some neglected part, and the walls, which, by flat­tery had been deemed impregnable, were either deserted by the garrisons, orscaled by the barbarians. Three thousand Sclavonians, who insolently dividedtkemselves into two bands, discovered the weakness and misery of a triumphantreign. They passed the Danube and the Hebrus, vanquished the Roman gene­rals who dared to oppose their progress, and plundered, with impunity, the citiesof Illyricum and Thrace, each of which had arms and numbers to overwhelmtheir contemptible assailants. Whatever praise the boldness of the Sclavonians maydeserve, it is sullied by the wanton and deliberate cruelty which they are accusedof exercising on their prisoners. Without distinction of rank, or age, or sex, thecaptiyte were impaled or flayed alive, or suspended between four posts, and beat­en with clu\>= till they expired, or enclosed in some spacious buildings, and leftto perish in the ft^es wfth the spoil and cattle which might impede the march ofthese savage victors, v?) Perhaps a more impartial narrative would reduce thenumber, and qualify the mature, of these horrid acts; and they might sometimesbe excused by the cruel laws ,f retaliation. In the siege of Topirus, (4) whose ob­stinate defence had enraged the Slavonians, they massacred fifteen thousand males;but they spared the women and chilaien; the most valuable captives were alwaysreserved for labour or ransom; the servitude was not rigorous, and the terms oftheir deliverance were speedy and moderaie. But the subject, or the historian ofJustinian, exhaled his just indignation in the language of complaint and reproach;and Procopius has confidently affirmed, that in a reign of thirty-two years eachannual inroad of the barbarians consumed two hundred thousand of the inhabi­tants of the Roman empire. The entire population of Turkish Europe, whichnearly corresponds with the provinces o5 Justinian, would perhaps be incapableof supplying six millions of persons, the res.u of this incredible estimate. (5) In the midst of these obscure calamities, Europe felt the shock of a revolution,whieh first revealed to the world the name and >atjon 0f the Turks. Like Romu­lus, the founder of that martial people was suckl^j Dy a she-wolf who afterwardmade him the father of a numerous progeny; and th> representation of that animal (1) Procopius, Goth. lib. iv. c. 25. fS) An inroad of the Huns is connected, by Procopius, with a comet: perna- that of Hi i-Persie lib ii r4.) A<rathias, (lib. v. p. 154,155.) borrows from his predecessors some earrvfacls. 531 (Persic, lib. n. e. (3) The cruelties or tbe Sclavonians are related or magninrd by Procopius (Guh lib iii c 19—38 Fortheir mild and liberal behaviour to their prisoners, we may appeal to the authority, nme, hat more recent, oftBe emperor Maurice (Stratagem, lib. ii. c. 5.) J, »mev.nat more recent, oi (4) Topirus was situate near Philippi in Thrace, or Macedonia, opposite to the isle of Thnsos twelve davs'journey from Constantinople (Cellarius, torn. i. p. 076—840.) ' *"■»" —f (s) According to the malevolent testimony of tire Anecdotes, (c. 18.,) these inroads had reduced the nro-vinces, south of the Danube, to the state of a Scythian wilderness. ""««" u«u nuuuu me pro