OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 467 coast of the Atlantic Ocean.* Truthfulness is his nature.In all great matters he has no interest for one state or againstanother, for this man or against that, but is singly and solelyinterested in the essential connection of events, to presentwhich in their true relation of causes and effects seemsto him not merely the first but the sole task of the historian.Lastly, the narrative is a model of completeness, simplicity,and clearness. Still all these uncommon advantages by nomeans constitute an historian of the first rank. Polybiusgrasps his literary task, as he grasped his practical, withgrandeur of intellect, but with the intellect alone. History,the struggle of necessity and liberty, is a moral problem;Polybius treats it as if it were a mechanical one. Thewhole alone has value for him, in nature as in the state; theparticular event, the individual man, however wonderful theymay appear, are yet properly mere single elements, insignifi­cant wheels in the highly artificial mechanism which receivesthe name of the state. So far Polybius was certainly qua­lified as no other was to narrate the history of the Romanpeople, which actually solved the marvellous problem ofraising itself to unparalleled internal and external great­ness without producing a single statesman of genius in thehighest sense, and which resting on its simple foundationsdeveloped itself with wonderful almost mathematical con­sistency. But the element of moral freedom is active in thehistory of every people; and it was not neglected by Polybiusin the history of Rome with impunity. His treatment of allquestions, in which right, honour, religion are involved, isnot merely shallow, but radically false. The same holds truewherever a genetic construction is required; the purelymechanical attempts at explanation, which Polybius substi­tutes, are sometimes altogether desperate; there is hardly,for instance, a more foolish political speculation than thatwhich derives the excellent constitution of Rome from ajudicious mixture of monarchical, aristocratic, and democraticelements, and deduces the successes of Rome from the excel­lence of her constitution. His conception of relations iseverywhere dreadfully jejune and destitute of imagination: * Such scientific travels were, however, nothing uncommon among theGreeks of this period. Thus in Plautus (Men. 248, comp. 235) one who hasnavigated the whole Mediterranean asks— Quin nos hinc domumRedimus, nisi si historiam script uri sumus f