OCR Output B. III. 229 YEAR V*. BEFORE CHRIST 427. come up with them by sea, thought a great point was carried,in. not finding them refuged in any harbour, where theymust have been under a necessity to fortify their station, andoblige him to a regular procedure and attack. In sailing back he touched at Notium of the Colopho-nians, in which at this time the Colophonians resided, theupper city having been taken by Itamenes and the Barba­rians, who had broke in by favour of an intestine sedition.It was taken about the time, that the Peloponnesians madetheir second incursion into Attica. But in Notium asecond sedition broke out, between those who resorted thitherfor refuge and the old inhabitants. The latter having ob­tained an aid of Arcadinns and Barbarians from Pissuthnesskept within a part separated by a traverse wall, and themanagement of affairs was in the hands of some Colophoni­ans of the upper city, who were in the Medish interest, andhad been received amongst them as an aid. But the former,who had resorted hither for refuge, and were a body ofexiles, apply to Paches for protection. He invited Hippias,the commander of the Arcadians within the transverse wall,to come out to a conference, assuring him, " if they came" to no agreement, he would replace him within both safe" and sound." Upon this Hippias came out; And Pachesimmediately put him under an arrest, but laid no bonds uponhim. This done, he on a sudden assaults the wall: by favourof the surprize carries it; and puts all the Arcadians andBarbarians within to the sword. After this, he replacethHippias within, in the same state he had promised; butwhen he had him there, immediately apprehends him againand shoots him to death with arrows. Notium he deliversinto the hands of the Colophonians, excluding those onlywho were in the interest of the Mede. In process of time,the Athenians having sent leaders thither on purpose, anddeclared Notium an Athenian colony, settled in it the Colo­phonians that were any where to be found, under the accus­tomed regulations. Vol. I. 2 V