OCR Output 37* TITUS LIVIUS- BOOK IV. • brother, and both disregarded! There must infallibly-• ,have been some trick here, and Sempronius, in presid-'ing. at the comitia, has discovered more art than hones- • ty. For which reason, they hail a right to con:plaio,'that their friends had been disappointed, by his uncan- • did procedure.' As Atratinus himself was above theirreach, both on account of his known integrity, and thehigh station in which he served, they turned all theirfury against C. Sempronius, his relation; and, by the as­sistance of .M. Canuleius, their colleague, revived theprosecution against him, for the disgrace he had broughtupon the state, in the: war with the Volsci. It was not long after that, till the tribunes proposed inthe senate, a division of the lands among the people; a•motion, which C. Sempronius had always most zealouslyopposed, with a view, as it turned out, to lessen his in­terest with the Patricians, should he appear more pas­sive, or expose himself to the resentment of the people,at the time of his trial, should he persist in his opposition.But, he raiher chose to be the butt of rheir malice, thanexpose his character by deserting the public cause,though at the hazard of his own; and, therefore, .con­tinued firm in his former opinion, ' That it would bebad policy to gratify three factious tribune's, who, infact, did not want to get land for the.people, but toraise the people's resentment against him. For his ownpart, he was determined to stand the storm, withoutflinching; and he saw no reason, why he, or any othercitizen of Rome, should be considered by the senate,jn such an important point of view, that in saving bim,the state should be exposed to any hardship.' Withthe same steadiness, on the day of his trial, he pleadedhis own cause: but when the senators had tried everymethod to soften the people in his favour, thev were stillinexorable, and condemned him in a fine of !5,OOO assesof brass.* This. year too, Posthumia, a vestal virgin, was im­peached for incontinence. She was found innocent, as tothe crime; but she had paid too much attention to dress,3nd been too free in her behaviour for a vestal, which * ,f+8 : 8 : 8.