OCR Output 44 LIVY. day take all the children of the senators. He then di­rected all the military tribunes, prefects of the allies,and centurions, to guard the gates carefully, that noone might go out of the city in the night. This wasnot performed with proper care and diligence; for,before the guards were posted at the gates, or nightcame on, seven principal senators made their escapewith their children. At the first light, on the dayfollowing, the senate being summoned into the forum,they were missed, and their property was sold. Fromthe rest of the senators one hundred and twenty hos­tages were received, who were their own children, andthey were delivered to Caius Terentius to be con­ducted to Rome. He represented every thing to thesenate in such a light as greatly increased their suspi­cions; wherefore, as if the hostile intentions of theEtrurians were no longer to be doubted, an order wasgiven to Caius Terentius himself to lead one of thecity legions to Arretium, and to keep it there, as agarrison to the city. It was at the same time deter­mined that Caius Hostilius, with the rest of the troops,should make a circuit through the whole province;that those who wished to excite disturbances mighthave no opportunity of putting their designs in exe­cution. When Caius Terentius, with the legion, ar-^rived at Arretium, and demanded from the magistratesthe keys of the gates, they told him that they werenot to be found; but he believing rather that they hadbeen put out of the way through some evil design,than lost through negligence, put on new locks, mak­ing use of every precaution to keep all things underhis own power. He earnestly cautioned Hostilius notto expect to retain the Etrurians in quiet by any othermeans than by putting it out of their power to stir. 25. About this time the business of the Tarentinesoccasioned a warm debate in the senate, where Fabiuswas present, exerting himself in favor of those whomhe had subdued by arms, while others spoke of themwith much asperity, charging them as equal in guilt,and deserving equal punishment with the Campanians,