OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 30.1 that could display the greatness and discipline of Rome.. Thelegions stood to their arms in well ordered ranks and awful silence.The principal commanders, distinguished by the ensigns of theirrank, appeared on horseback on either side of the imperial throne.Behind the throne, the consecrated images of the emperor, and hispredecessors the golden eagles, and the various titles of thelegions, engraved in letters of gold, were exalted in the air onlofty pikes covered with silver. When Aurelian assumed his seat,his manly grace and majestic figure 30 taught the barbarians torevere the person as well as the purple of their conqueror. Theambassadors fell prostrate on the ground in silence. They werecommanded to rife, and permitted to speak. By the assistance ofinterpreters they extenuated their perfidy, magnified their exploits*, expatiated' on the vicissitudes of fortune and the advantages ofpeace, and, with an ill-timed confidence, demanded a large subsidy,as the price of the alliance which they offered to the Romans.The answer of the emperor was stern and imperious. He treatedtheir offer with contempt, and their demand with indignation,reproached the barbarians, that they were as ignorant of the arts ofwar as of the laws of peace, and finally dismissed them with thechoice only of submitting to his unconditioned mercy, or awaitingthe utmost severity of his resentment3'. Aurelian had resigned adistant province to the Goths; but it was dangerous to trust or topardon these perfidious barbarians, whose formidable power keptItaly itself in perpetual alarms. Immediately after this conference, it should seem that some un- The Ale-expected emergency required the emperor's presence in Pannonia. faty"1""'He devolved on his lieutenants the care of finishing the destructionof the Alemanni, either by the sword, or by the surer operation offamine. But an active despair has often triumphed over the indo­lent assurance of success. The barbarians, finding it impossible totraverse the Danube and the Roman camp, broke through the posts