OCR Output ». IJ. TEAR L—BEFORE CHRIST 431. 121 soners, till they should send their determination about them ; for they were not yet informed of their having been actually put to death. The first messenger had been sentaway immediately upon the irruption of the Thebans—thesecond so soon as they were defeated and made prisoners—as to what happened afterwards, they were utterly in thedark. Thus ignorant of what had since been done, the Athe­nians dispatched away their herald, who upon his arrivalfound them all destroyed. Yet after this, the Atheniansmarching a body of troops to Plataea, carried thither all ne­cessary provisions, left a garrison in the place, and broughtaway all the hands that would be useless in a siege, with thewomen and children. After this business of Plataea, and so manifest a breachof peace, the Athenians made all necessary preparations forimmediate war. The Lacedaemonians also and their confe­derates took the same measures. Nay, both sides were in­tent on dispatching embassies* to the king\, and to severalother Barbarian powers, wherever they had hope of formingsome effectual interest for themselves, and spared no painsto win those states over to their alliance, which had hithertobeen independent. In the Lacedaemonian league, besidesthe ships already furnished out for them in Italy and Sicily,the confederates there were ordered to prepare a new quota,proportioned to the abilities of the several states, that the • By this means the intestine quarrels of Greece were going to throw apower into the hands of the Persian monarch which he could not obtain byforce. Each party could cringe to tlie common enemy, in order to obtainsubsidies from him to enable them to distress each other. And thus thebalance of power rested at last in his hands, and he became for a time su­preme arbiter of Greece. Aristophanes, in his comedy of The Acarmam,hath described these embassies and the Persian monarch too with exces­sive buffoonery, but quite too low and ridiculous to quote. He bears hardupon the Athenian ambassadors for lengthening out the time of their em-ploy as much as possible for the lucre of the salary paid them by the state,which is there mentioned at two drachmas a day. Was it either avariceor public rapine—this exorbitant salary of 15Jd. a day to an imibassad-jrfrom the republic of Athens to the great kiog of Persia ? \ Artaxerxcs of Longin;anits.