OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. z57 fore, indulged himself in the pleasures of Italy, was almost in thefame instant informed of the success of the revolt, and of the rapidapproach of his aspiring lieutenant. He advanced to meet him asfar as the plains of Spoleto. When the armies came in fight of eachother, the soldiers of Gallus compared the ignominious conduct oftheir sovereign with the glory of his rival. They admired thevalour of Æmilianus; they were attracted by his liberality, for heoffered a considerable increase of pay to all deserters18. The mur- Gallus abaa. . doned and der of Gallus, and of his son Volusianus, put an end to the civil slain,war; and the senate gave a legal sanction to the rights of conquest. May,'The letters of Æmilianus to that assembly, were a mixture of mode­ration and vanity. He assured them, that he should resign to theirwisdom the civil administration; and contenting himself with thequality of their general, would in a short time assert the glory ofRome, and deliver the empire from all the barbarians both of theNorth and of the EastS9. His pride was flattered by the applause ofthe senate; and medals are still extant, representing him with the nameand attributes of Hercules the Victor, and of Mars the Avenger 6". If the new monarch possessed the abilities, he wanted the Valerian re­time necessary to fulfil these splendid promises. Less than four deaofofGal-months intervened between his victory and his fall6'. He had t^"^'^*vanquished Gallus: he funk under the weight of a competitor more emPeror-formidable than Gallus. That unfortunate prince had sent Vale­rian, already distinguished by the honourable title of censor, to bringthe legions of Gaul and Germany 61 to his aid. Valerian executedthat commission with zeal and fidelity; and as he arrived too lateto save his sovereign, he resolved to revenge him. The troops ofÆmilianus, who still lay encamped in the plains of Spoleto, wereawed by the sanctity of his character, but much more by the supe­rior strength of his army; and as they were now become as inca­pable of personal attachment as they had always been of consti­tutional principle, they readily imbrued their hands in the blood of A. D. 253. Vol. I. LI a prince Ausust"