OCR Output AN. 1183.] 179 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. law. And when this was done, Booz marriedRuth, and they had a son within a year'stime. Naomi was herself a nurse to hischild; and by the advice of the women call­ed him Obed, as being to be brought up inorder to be subservient to her in her old age.For Obed in the Hebrew dialect signifies aservant. The son of Obed was Jesse; andking David was his son,* who left his domi­nions to his sons for one and twenty gene­rations. I was therefore obliged to relatethis history of Ruth, because I had a mind todemonstrate the power of God; who, with­out difficulty, can raise those that are ofordinary parentage to dignity and splendour,to which he advanced David, though hewere born of such mean parents. CHAP. X. OF THE BIRTH OF SAMUEL, AND HIS PREDICTION OF THECALAMITY THAT BEFEL THE SONS OF ELI. AND now, upon the ill state of the af­fairs of the Hebrews, they made waragain upon the Philistines. The occasionwas this: Eli the high-priest had two sons,Hophni and Phineas, who were guilty ofinjustice towards men, and of impiety to­wards God; and abstained from no sort ofwickedness. Some of their gifts they carriedoft", as belonging to the honourable employ­ment they had: others of them they tookaway by violence. They also were guilty ofimpurity with the women that came to wor­ship God at the tabernacle. Nay, the wholecourse of their life, was no better than ty-ranny.f Their father therefore was angry atthem for such wickedness, and expected thatGod would suddenly inflict his punishmentsupon them, for what they had done. Themultitude took it heinously also. And assoon as God had foretold what calamitywould befall Eli's sons, which he did both toEli himself, and to Samuel the prophet, who the shoe as a token of investiture, Castell, Lex. Polyg.col. 2342. mentions that the Emperor of the Ahyssiniansused the casting of a shoe as a sign of dominion. SeePsalm lx. 8. To these instances the following may pro­perly be added; "Childebert the Second was fifteenyears old, when Gontram his uncle declared he was ofage, and capable of governing by himself. I have put"gays he, " this Javelin into thy hands, as a token that IVOL. I.—nos. 15 & 16. was yet but a child, he openly shewed hissorrow for his son's destruction. I will first despatch what I have to sayabout the prophet Samuel; and after thatwill proceed to speak of the sons of Eli, andthe miseries which they brought upon thewhole people of the Hebrews. Elcanah, aLevite, one of a middling condition among hisfellow citizens, and one that dwelt at Rama-thaim, a city of the tribe of Ephraim, mar­ried two wives, Hannah, and Peninnah. Hehad children by the latter, but he loved theother best, although she were barren.Now Elcanah came with his wives to thecity Shiloh, to sacrifice; for there it was thatthe tabernacle of God was fixed. Now afterhe had sacrificed, he distributed at thatfestival portions of the flesh to his wives andchildren; and when Hannah saw the otherwife's children round about their mother, sheburst into tears, on account of her barren­ness; and, suffering her grief to prevail overher husband's consolations, she went to thetabernacle to beseech God to make her amother, and to vow to consecrate the firstson she should bear to the service of God;and this in such a way that his manner ofliving should not be like that of ordinarymen. And as she continued at her prayers along time, Eli the high-priest who sat beforethe tabernacle, bade her go away: thinkingshe had been disordered with wine; butwhen she said she had drank water, but wasin sorrow for want of children, and was be­seeching God for them: he exhorted her tobe of good cheer, and told her that Godwould grant her request.J So she came to her husband full of hope,and ate her meal with gladness. And whenthey returned to their own country, she foundherself pregnant, and they had a son born tothem; to whom they gave the name of Samu­el, which may be styled one that was askedof God. They therefore came to the taber­nacle to offer sacrifice for the birth of thechild, and brought their tithes with them; but have given thee all my kingdom." And then turning to­wards the assembly, he added, " You see that my sonChildebert has become a man. Obey him." Montes­quieu, Spirit of Lares, vol. i. p. 361. B. * Ruth iv. 17. t 1 Sam. ii. 12—17. j 1 Sam. i. 17.