OCR Output NIXGUM. 437 NINUS. in Lksu, indeed (Jupiter Tragaed. § 42), theAfTTftisM sacrificed to the element of water, not.ojr, tot universally. Pictorially, the Nile wasrn>«t«d under a round and plump figure, of aiv ctAwr, ud sometimes with female breasts, indi-am 4 its productive and nutritive powers. Ontfa bast of tbc throne of Amenophis-Memnon, atrWa, two figures represent the Nile, similar in all«i#r aspects, except that one is crowned with lotusHasan the upper courses of the river, the othernt patrroA lo designate the lower. [See Aeovp-TtvaJ".] (ttcarllini. Mom. del Cull.; Kenrick's.tumlktfjyt, vol. i. pp. 349—463.) [W.B.D.]MiGCH. (Istoa.JXIX1VE. [Siu-a.]S1SXITACL [Mi-xaticum.]SlSVSd "•»•» °r Hint, Herod i. 193, ii. 150;I'm. 'i 1. § 3; Nu-or i) *al Nirtvt, Ptol. viii. 21.{1; Xrat, Joseph. Ant. Jud ix. 10. § 2; Ninus,Int. Jm. xii 13; Ninive, Amm. Marc xviii. 7,n : 6: A'tA-'Niriot, Steph. B. $. v.), a great city,c. isr msoT centuries the capital of ancient Assy-rm hwilibt convenient to notice here such ac­hats si we have from the Bible and ancient his-i-jii. sod then to state succinctly the curious™as* af the recent discoveries of Mr. Layard,'x»l Bs.linscn, and other modern travellers.L Xiaereb is first mentioned in the Bible among: ' rnmerai cities in Genesis (x.ll), and isMated to have been founded either by Nimrodor. according to another reading, by his''Js-\ Assur, the'Atraovpas of Joseph. Ant.Jud. lymus of A ■ jri i The latter■ ihr mat agreeable to the construction of theaS»»» teit From this period we have no mention« : a HqJt Script a re for more than a thousandjaniaii when it is noticed again, on Jonah being~-'.lrr to preach repentance, it is described as■'orref three days' journey" (Jonah, iii. 3), and* peat city wherein axe six bcore thousandpirn, tatt cannot discern between their rightati ud their left hand." {Jonah, IT. 11.) Sub-^4*7 to this time, it is not referred to by name,ft*'-* ia 2 Kmc*, xix. 37, and Isaiah, xxxvi. 37,--.■>-..t r,f Senn:ichcnb, after his returnaw tat amaion of Judaea; in the prophets Nahumiephaaiia. who predict its speedy downfal; andtat ifwoTphaJ books of Tobit and Judith, thejmm 4 wthac Ions; Ihred in the great city.& Tot evue*t classical mention of Nineveh is'Sandotaa, who places it on the Tigris (i. 193,tttl bm does not state on which bank it stood;ta W « canfirmed by Arrian {Hist. Ind. c. 42)n one place calls it the metropolisV"* la. Assyria (iL p. 84), in another states it to)0r- ■ city more vast than even Babylon, lying1 a** of Atoria (a dialectical change of namegA»yria), beyuod the Lycos (or Grtai Zdb) with^■"•toaxtola (xrL p. 737). Pliny places itft* aut hank of the Tigria "ad aolis occasum°»»* (ri_ 13. s. 16); Ptolemy, along the Tigris,*=^vt accurate definition of ita position (vi. 1.ML Tat an may be said of the notice in Taci-pUsaai xii. 13), and in Ammianus, who calls it^■7 of Adiabene. On the other hand, Dio-ytftaiin to copy Ctesiaa, places it on the■•(a. 3, 7), which is the more remarkable,ft fapaaai of Xiculau* Damascenus, who has*i « portion of Ctesiaa, is still extant, inAonch area pies its correct position on the{Frag, hist Grave, vol. iii. p. 858, ed. Muller.) It may be remarked that in much latertimes the name appears to have been applied to morethan one town. Thus Ammianus in one passageseems to think that Hierapolis was the "vetusNinus" (xiv. 8). Philostratus (Vit. Apoll. Tyan.i. 19) speaks of a Ninus on this side of the Euphra­tes; and Eusebius, in his Chronicon, asserts, that inhis time it was called Nisibis. No doubt much ofthe obscurity in the minds of ancient writers, bothas to its position and the real history of the empireof which it was the capital, arose from the circum­stance that its entire overthrow preceded the ear­liest of the Greek historians by neurly 200 years,and that it does not appear to have been rebuilt atany period of the classical ages. So complete wasits destruction, that, though Xenophoo marchedwithin a few miles of it, he was not aware of its ex­istence, though, in his allusion to the u Median cityof Mespila,*1 he doubtless is describing one of thegreat outworks of the Assyrian capital (Anab. iii. 4.§ 10); while, with the exception of Arrian, none ofthe historians of the campaigns of Alexander, who,like Xenophon, must have parsed it on his way tolight the battle of Arbela, allude to it. That theancients generally believed in its entire destruction,is clear from Pausanias, who classes it with My­cenae, Thebae, and other ruined cities (viii. 33. § 2);from Lucian (Charon, c. 23), and from Strabo(xvi. p. 737). The last, indeed, has on argumentthat Homer, who mentions Thebes in Egypt, andthe wealth of Phoenicia, could not have omittedBabylon, Nineveh, and Ecbatana, had he ever heardof them (xv. p. 735). But though so early a ruin,the ancients generally had a correct idea of thewonderful greatness of Nineveh, and many passagesare scattered through the classical writers, giving amanifest proof of this belief of the people. ThusStrabo himself, as we have seen, considered Ninevehgreater than Babylon (xvi. p. 737); while Piodorushas a long and exaggerated narrative of tlie vastextent of Ninus's capital (which, as we Mated be­fore, he places incorrectly on the Euphrates, ii.p. 7). Some curious incidental facts are preserved.Thus, the vast mound Semiramis erected as a tombfor her husband Ninus, by the river-hide, is almostcertainly the Pyramid at Nimrud, though the re­sults of Mr. Layard's last excavations have notproved that this structure was a tomb. (Diod. ii. 7;comp. with Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p. 128).Again, Amyntas (as quoted by Athenueus) states,that at the town of Ninus was a high mound, whichwas thrown down by Cyrus when he attacked thecity, that this was traditionally the tomb of Sard a-napalus, and bad a stele on it inscribed with Chal-daic (i. e. Assyrian) letters. (Amynt. Fragin p.136, ed. MUller; cf. also Polyaen. vii. 25.) Normust we omit the presence of what has been held byall numismatists to be a traditional representation ofthis celebrated tomb on the Tetradrachms of Anti-ochus VIII., king of Syria, which were struck atTarsus, and on the imperial coins of Anchialus(both places connected with the name of Sarda-napalus). Again we have the legend of Diodorus,that the Assyrians sent assistance to the Trojansagainst the Greeks (ii. 22; cf. Plat. lea. p. 296,ed. Bekker), — the "busta Nini" of Ovid (Ale-tank iv. 88), though referred by him wrongly toBabylon.— and the occurrence, in several of thepoets, of the name of Assaracus (now known throughColonel Rawlinaons interpretations to be a Graecizedform of the genuine Assyrian Assaiac, the 'Av&pax f K 3