OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. to ashes in the port of Syracuse by the burning-glassesof Archimedes ;0 and it is asserted, that a similar expe­dient was employed by Proclus to destroy the Gothicvessels in the harbour of Constantinople, and to protecthis benefactor Anastasius against the bold enterprise ofVitalian.d A machine was fixed on the walls of the city,consisting of an hexagon mirror of polished brass, withmany smaller and moveable polygons to receive and re­flect the rays of the meridian sun; and a consumingflame was darted, to the distance, perhaps, of two hun­dred feet.6 The truth of these two extraordinary factsis invalidated by the silence of the most authentic his­torians; and the use of burning-glasses was never adopt­ed in the attack or defence of places/ Yet the admir­able experiments of a French philosopher5 have demon­strated the possibility of such a mirror; and, since it ispossible, I am more disposed to attribute the art to thegreatest mathematicians of antiquity, than to give themerit of the fiction to the idle fancy of a monk or a so­phist. According to another story, Proclus applied sul­phur to the destruction of the Gothic fleet :h in amodern imagination, the name of sulphur is instantlyconnected with the suspicion of gunpowder, and that c This conflagration is hinted by Lucian, (in Hippia, c. 2.) and Galen, (lib. S. detemperamentis, ton). 1. p. 81. edit. Bazil.) in the second century. A thousand yearsafterward, it is positively affirmed by Zonaras, (lib. 9. p. 424.) on the faith of DionCassias, by Tzetzes, (Chiliad 2. 119. &c.) Eustathius, (ad Iliad E. p. 338.) and thescholiast of Lucian. See Fabricins, (Bibliot. Oreo, lib. 3. o. 23. torn. 1. p. 551,553.)lo whom I am more or leas indebted for several of these quotations. d Zonaras (lib. 14. p. 55.) affirms the fact, without quoting any evidence. e Tzetzes describes the artifioe of these burning glasses, which he had read, per­haps with no learned eyes, in a mathematical treatise of Antheniius. That treatise,<stft •jrct^a.io^an fAu^avrtf^ATW, has been lately published, translated, and illustrated,by M. Dupuys, a scholar and a mathematician. (Memoirs de I'Academie des Inscrip­tions, torn. 42. p. 392—451.) f In the siege of Syracuse, bythe silence ofPoIybius, Plntarch, Livy; in the siegeof Constantinople, by that of Marcellinus, and all the contemporaries of the sixthcentury. t Without any previous knowledge of Tzetzes or Antheniius, the immortal Buttonimagined and executed a set of burning-glasses, with which he could inflame planksat the distance of two hundred feet. (Supplement a l'Hist. Naturelle, torn. 1. p.389—483. quarto edition.) What miracles would not his genius have performedfor the public service, with royal expense, and in the strong sun of Constantinopleor Syracuse! k John Malala (torn. 3. p. 120—124.) relates the fact: but he seems to confuundthe names or persons of Proclu* and Marinus.