OCR Output PUTEOLI. 679 PUTEOLI. The date assigned to this Samian colony byis u Utc as B. c. 521. No mention oceanl>v<wchia in history previous to the conquest! C-.mae by the Campanians: from its serving ■ tie part of Comae it could probably never haveik*a any active or independent part; but there do doubt that it moat have become a populousA nVxu-iahuig town. The name of Dicaearchia»3T»ed to be applied to it by Greek writers long * t it had assumed the new appellation of Puteoli.Jtod. rr. 22. v. 13. &c) r> pcriid of this change is uncertain. It isKxaJry caid that the Romans bestowed on it the■» same when they established their colony there; * :strt Menu good reason to believe that it wasfc Urafaly more ancient. The name of Puteoli is to the city by Livy daring the Second Punic•r (Lir. xxiv. 7). and there is much probability ■ tie coins with the Oscan inscription "Phistlus,"~»*2ae» Graecixed into Phistelia, belong to Puteolinthe period previous to the Roman colony..-mcen. S'umum. de tAnc. ltalie, p. 201; Fried-swr, OtHt.hr Mmse*. p. 29.) According to the the name of Puteoli was derivedthe stem-h arising from the numeroussprings in the neighbourhood, or (withr ratability) from the wells (putei) or sourcesi' j^ranic nature with which it abounded. (Varro,.'. v. 25; Feat- *. P. Puttoli; Plin. xxxi. 2; Strab.s. 245; Slept. B. *. t. IWoAoi)n- fcrat mention of Puteoli in history is duringv—urxl Punic War, when it was fortified by Q. ■ a tT«3cder of the senate, and protected by a«C parriwa to secure it from the attempts ofEaaaL fx. C- 215. That general, indeed, in the * muoa made an attempt, though without — •. to nake himself master of the city, thefvi c J its port being an object of the greatestroom to him. (Liv. xxiv. 7, 12, 13.) LivyH> •/ l*Btenii aa having first become frequentedtar-: na cucwjuencc of the war; and though thise «-r>rtJy correct, as we know that it was fre->■■ ;<iy before under the name of Dicaearchia,vko&e that it then first rose to the high de-rf rcnmerrcial importance which it subsequentlylei later the Rxnaos. Thus in b. c. 212 it■t taa ariaripal port where the supplies of corn ra-jraa and Sardinia were landed for the use» hVmao army thut was besieging Capua (Liv.JJ); aad the next year it was from thencei. zx^iitu Hero am barked with two legions forL (I*, xrri. IT.) Towards the close of theaao (a. a. SOS) it was at Puteoli that thecarruan aunbauaadurs landed, on their way to'I !, xxx. 2i.) It was doubtless the growing-x^-r of Patteoai as a commercial emporiumfci tiw Rornaos to establish a colony there in1M {Lit. »wir. 45: Veil. PaL i. 15): thea iv^ned by a remarkable inscription ofU<5 (M.m3»ett. Inter. ft. A'. 2458), and iti t < have baeoxxsa before the close of the Re­tt f-«ntir.o*»l tinder the Empire, one of ther*M*l«rabse places of trade in Italy. From - . Dr.t really good port on the south ofis* Antiam coakl never deserve that epithet) utt H a mani^r the port of the imperial city,outsail from it not less than 150 miles.i*l traveller* coming from the East to"tt-j»eriirv i^od at Puteoli and proceed from ■ it !».•»•' u> the «-ity, as in the well-known at Paul (Act. Apvst. xxviii. 13) and Cicero on his return to Rome from his quaestor-ship in Sicily (Cic. pro Plane. 26), but the samecoarse was pursued with the greater part of themerchandise brought from the East, especiallywith the costly wares sent from Alexandria, andeven the supplies of corn from the same quar­ter. (Strab. xvii. p. 793; Suet. A tig. 98; Se-nec Ep. 77.) Strabo speaks of Puteoli as one ofthe most important trading cities of his time (v. p.245), and it is evident from the expressions ofSeneca (£ c.) that this had not fallen off in the daysof Nero. The trade with Alexandria indeed, im­portant as it was, was only one branch of its exten­sive commerce. Among other things the irun ofllva, after being smelted at Populonium, was broughtto Puteoli (Diod. v. 13): and the city carried onalso a great trade with the Turdetanians in thesouth of Spain, as well as with Africa. (Strab. iii.p. 145.) We learn also from an inscription still ex­tant, that its trade with Tyre was of such importancethat the Tyrians had a regular factory there (Boeckh,C. I. no. 5853); and another inscription mentions anumber of merchants from Berytus as resident there.(Mommsen, /. ft. A'. 2488.) Indeed there seems nodoubt that it was under the Roman Empire one ofthe greatest—if not the greatest—emporiums offoreign trade in all Italy For this advantage itwas in a great measure indebted to the excellence ofits port, which, besides being naturally well sheltered,was farther protected by an extensive mole or pierthrown out into the bay and supported on stone pileswith arches between them. Hence Seneca speaks ofthe population of Puteoli assembling on this mole(in pilis) to watch for the arrival of the ships fromAlexandria. (Sen. Ep. 77.) Puteoli had peculiarfacilities for the construction of this and similarworks, from the excellent quality of its volcanic sand,which formed a inortar or cement of the greatesthardness and durability, and wholly proof againstthe influence of the sea-water. (Strab. v. p. 245;Plin. xxxv. 13. s. 47.) This kind of cement is stillknown by the name of Pozzotatia. It was from the extremity of the mole of Puteolithat Caligula carried his celebrated bridge acrossthe bay to the opposite shores at Baiae. (Suet. Cat.19, 32; Dion C&ss. lix. 17; Joseph. Ant. xix. 1. §1.) It is scarcely necessary to observe that thisbridge was merely a temporary structure [Baiae],and the remains still visible at Pozzuoli which arepopularly known as the Bridge of Caligula are infact the piles or piers of the mole of Puteoli. Theconstruction of this mole is generally ascribed toAugustus, without sufficient authority; but it isprobable that it dates from at least as early a period:and we learn that there were in his time extensivedocks (navalia) at Puteoli, in which the huge shipsthat had been employed in bringing the obelisksfrom Egypt were preserved,—a sufficient proof of themagnitude of these establishments. (Plin. xxxvi.9. a. 14.) Another proof of the importance ofPuteoli is the fact that Claudius established there,as well as at Oslia, a cohort of troops to guard thecity against fire, in the same manner as was done atRome (Suet. Claud. 25). In A. r>. 95 Domitianconstructed a new line of road leading direct toPuteoli from Sinuessa, where it quitted the AppianWay. (Dion Cass, hcvii. 14; Stat Silv. iv. 3.)Previous to that time its communication with Romemust have been by way of Capua, to which a branchroad (not given in the Itineraries) led direct fromPuteoli.