OCR Output C. III.] OF THE JEWS. 259 pains they had taken; at which procedure of theirs many ofthe most inconsiderate among the Komans, who were carriedaway with violent passions, followed hard after them as theywere retiring, and applied ladders to the cloister, and got upto it suddenly: but the more prudent part of them, whenthey understood this unaccountable retreat of the Jews, stoodstill where they were before. However, the cloister was fullof those that were gone up the ladders; at which time theJews set it all on fire; and as the flame burst out every whereon the sudden, the Romans that were out of the danger wereseized with a very great consternation, as were those thatwere in the midst of the danger in the utmost distress. Sowhen they perceived themselves surrounded with the flames,some of them threw themselves down backwards into thecity, and some among their enemies [in the temple;] as didmany leap down to their own men, and broke their limbs topieces; but a great number of those that were going to takethese violent methods were prevented by the fire, thoughsome prevented the fire by their own swords. However, thefire was on the sudden carried so far as to surround thosewho would have otherwise perished. As for Caesar himself,he could not, however, but commiserate those that thusperished, although they got up thither without any order forso doing, since there was no way of giving them any relief.Yet was this some comfort to those that were destroyed, thatevery body might see that person grieve for whose sake theycame to their end; for he cried out openly to them, andleaped up, and exhorted those that were about him to do theirutmost to relieve them. So every one of them died cheer­fully, as carrying along with him these words, and this inten­tion of Caesar, as a sepulehral monument. Some there were,indeed, who retired into the wall of the cloister, which wasbroad, and were preserved out of the fire, but were then sur­rounded by the Jews; and although they made resistanceagainst the Jews, for a long time, yet were they wounded bythem, and at length they all fell down dead. 2. At the last, a young man among them, whose name wasLongus, became a decoration to this sad affair, and while