OCR Output 720 KOMA. ROMA. seven liills—the site on which the eternal city itselfwas destined to rise — stands on tlie left bank of theTiber. To the N. of tliein is another hill, tin1 Monsrincius or Coll is Hortorum, which was excluded fromthe ancient city, but part of it wis enclosed in thewalls of Aurelian. The Tiber, at its entrance intoKoine, very nearly approaches the foot of this hill,and then describes three bold curves or reaches;fust to the SW., then to the SE., and again to theMY. The distance from the spot where the Tiberenters the city to the SW. point of the Aventine is,in a direct line, about 2 miles. At the extremity ofthe second, or most eastern reach, it divides itself fora short space into two channels and forms an island,called the Insula Tiberina. At this spot, at about3U0 paces from its eastern bank, lies the smallestbut most renowned of the- seven hills, the Mons Ca-pitolinus. It is of a saddle-back shape, depressed inthe centre, and rising into two eminences at its6. and N. extremities. On its N. or rather NE. side, it must in ancient times have akvst tcop'tthe Col lis Quirinalix, the most northerly of the^s,from which a large portion was cut away by Inn,in order to construct his forum. The CJuirmaiis asomewhat in the shape of a honk, rumiing first :othe SW., and then curving its extreme jmn: u> !t»S. Properly speaking, it is not a distinct bill, '-nmerely a tongue, projecting from the sin^ ■—- -ridge which also throws out the adj"inim: Yincniand the two still more southern projections <i EtaEsquiline. It will l>e seen from the anneal jaia,without tlie help of which this description max t*understood, that the Qiurinal. and the boutheniaasand most projecting tongue of the Esquiline, aiax»'.meet at their extremities, and enclose a eonaimitihollow — which, however, is nearly filled op by li*Vimraa], and by the northern and smaller tannedthe Esquiline. These two tongues ot :\\* \l- i ■were originally regarded as distinct hills, imdrr atnames of Cispius, the northern projection, isd Op. FLAH OF THE ROMAN hills. A. Mons Capltollnuii B. Mont Palatlnus.<". Mom Avf-mfmis.J). Mom Caellua. K. Mniis Esquilinui. F. Col lis VimiiuilU. G. Collii Quinnnlis, H. Collia Hortorum (or Mons Tincius). I. Mom Jiiuiculus. a. Velia. b. Gcrmalus. c. Oppius. rf. Ci.|iiu-. re. TiberU Fl. 1. Praia Quinrtia. 2. Praia FUmiuia. 3. Subura. 4. Carinas. 5. Carroliemla. 6. Velabrum. 7. Forum Boarinm. 8. VaUis Murcla.