OCR Output 172 THE ANNALS [A. U.C.774. " lord it over them with pride and arrogance. By the" murder of Germanicus, disaffection was diffused" among the legions, and the opportunity to strike the" blow for liberty was now arrived. Reflect on the" numbers we can bring into the field : remember the" impoverished state of Italy. At Rome every war-" like principle is extinguished. The strength of their" armies is mouldered away. They have no national" strength, but depend altogether on foreign nations" to fight their battles." XLI. A general spirit of revolt prevailed in everypart of Gaul. Scarce a city was free from commo­tion. The flame blazed out among the Andecaviansand the people of Tours ; but by the diligence ofAcilius Aviola, who marched from Lyons at the headof a cohort, the insurgents in the former provincewere reduced to obedience. The same commander,with a legionary force, detached by Visellius Varro,from the Lower Germany, marched into the territoryof Tours, and quelled the insurrection. In this ex­pedition some of the principal chiefs in Gaul joinedthe Roman army, not with zeal for the cause, butpretending friendship, in order, with surer effect, tobe traitors in the end. Even Sacrovir fought withthe Romans: he was seen in the heat of action withhis head uncovered, in order, as he gave out, to sig­nalize his courage and fidelity: but in truth, as wasafterwards collected from the prisoners, to avoid be­ing aimed at by the darts of his countrymen. Anaccount of these disturbances was transmitted to Ti­berius. He doubted the intelligence, and by his in­decision prolonged the war. XLII. Julius Florus, in the mean time, continuedto exert his most vigorous efforts. A regiment ofhorse, raised formerly among the Treveri, but train­ed to the Roman discipline, happened to be quarteredat Treves. He tampered with those troops, in hopesof beginning the war by a general massacre of theRoman merchants. A small number listened to hisadvice, but the rest continued in their duty. Floruswas followed by a rabble of debtors, and a number ofhis own dependants. He marched towards the forest