OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 435 Salona, and to close the eyes of her afflicted father 8'. He entreated,but as he could no longer threaten, his prayers were received withcoldness and disdain; and the pride of Maximin was gratified,in treating Diocletian as a suppliant, and his daughter as a criminal.The death of Maximin seemed to assure the empresses of a favour­able alteration in their fortune. The public disorders relaxed thevigilance of their guard, and they easily found means to escapefrom the place of their exile, and to repair, though with someprecaution, and in disguise, to the court of Licinius. His be­haviour, in the first days of his reign, and the honourable re­ception which he gave to young Candidianus, inspired Valeriawith a secret satisfaction, both on her own account, and on that ofher adopted son. But these grateful prospects were soon succeededby horrour and astonishment, and the bloody executions whichstained the palace of Nicomedia, sufficiently convinced her, that thethrone of Maximin was filled by a tyrant more inhuman thanhimself. Valeria consulted her safety by a hasty flight, and, stiljaccompanied by her mother Prisca, they wandered above fifteenmonths ** through the provinces, concealed in the disguise of.plebeian habits. They were at length discovered at Thessalonica;and as the sentence of their death was already pronounced, theywere immediately beheaded, and their bodies thrown into the sea.The people gazed on the melancholy spectacle; but their griefand indignation were suppressed by the terrors of a military guard.Such was the unworthy fate of the wife and daughter of Diocletian.We lament their misfortunes, we cannot discover their crimes, andwhatever idea we may justly entertain of the cruelty of Licinius, itremains a matter of surprise, that he was not contented withsome more secret and decent method of revenge 8J. The Roman world was now divided between Constantine and QUnre! he.Licinius, the former of whom was master of the West, and the fanti°e«>dlatter of the East. It might perhaps have been expected that the i,ll~iu5' K k k 2 conquerors,