OCR Output 248 j o s e p n u s [b. vl in charge, and this in the Hebrew language.' So he earnestlyprayed them, " To spare their own city, and to prevent thatfire which was just ready to seize upon the temple, and tooffer their usual sacrifices to God therein." At these wordsof his, a great sadness and silence were observed among thepeople. But the tyrant himself cast many reproaches uponJosephus, with imprecations besides ; and at last added thiswithal, — " That he did never fear the taking of the city, be­cause it was God's own city." In answer to which Josephussaid thus with a loud voice : — "To be sure thou hast keptthis city wonderful pure for God's sake ; the temple also con­tinues entirely unpolluted ! Nor hast thou been guilty of anyimpiety against him for whose assistance thou hopest! Hestill receives his accustomed sacrifices ! Vile wretch that thouart! If any one should deprive thee of thy daily food, thouwouldst esteem him to be an enemy to thee; but thou hopestto have that God for thy supporter in this war whom thouhast deprived of his everlasting worship : and thou imputestthose sins to the Romans, who, to this very time, take care tohave our laws observed, and almost compel these sacrifices tobe still offered to God which have by thy means been inter­mitted. Who is there that can avoid groans and lamentationsat the amazing change that is made in the city ? since veryforeigners and enemies do now correct that impiety whichthou hast occasioned; while thou art a Jew, and wast educatedin our laws, art become a greater enemy to them than theothers. But still, John, it is never dishonorable to repent,and amend what hath been done amiss, even at the last ex­tremity. Thou hast an instance before thee in Jechoniah,2the king of tho Jews, if thou hast a mind to save the city,who, when the king of Babylon made war against him, did,of his own accord, go out of this city before it was taken, anddid undergo a voluntary captivity, with his family, that thesanctuary might not be delivered up to the enemy, and that 1 The same that in the New Testament is always so called, and was thenthe common language of the Jews in Judea, which was the Syriac dialect. 2 Our present copies of the Old Testament want this encomium upon KingJechoniah or Jehoiachim, which it seem'! was in Josephus's copy.