OCR Output DEDICATION. 7 "Emperor ! why do you read these things? They are written onlyfor the common people, for farmers or mechanics, or for those who?have nothing else to do; why do you trouble yourself with them?"Indeed, when I undertook this work, I did not expect that youwould sit in judgment on me;' I considered your situation muchtoo elevated for you to descend to such an office. Besides wepossess the right of openly rejecting the opinion of men of learn­ing. M. Tullius himself, whose genius is beyond all competition,uses this privilege, and, remarkable as it may appear, employs anadvocate in his own defence. "I do not write for very learnedpeople; I do not wish my works to be read by Manius Persius,but by Junius Congus."8 And if Lucilius, who first introducedthe satirical style,' applied such a remark to himself, and ifCicero thought proper to borrow it, and that more especially inhis treatise "De Republica;" how much more reason have I to doso, who have such a judge to defend myself against? And by thisvery dedication I have deprived myself of the benefit of chal­lenge ;IO for it is a very different thing whether a person has ajudge given him by lot, or whether he voluntarily selects one; andwe always make more preparation for an invited guest, than forone that comes in unexpectedly. When the candidates for office, during the heat of the canvass,deposited the fine in the hands of Cato, that determined opposerof bribery, rejoicing as he did in his being rejected from what heconsidered to be foolish honours, they professed to do this out ofrespect to his integrity; the greatest glory which a man couldattain. It was on this occasion that M. Cicero uttered the nobleejaculation; "How happy are you, Marcus Porcius, of whom noone dares to ask what is dishonourable!" When L. Scipio Asiati-cus appealed to the tribunes, among whom was Gracchus, heexpressed full confidence that he should obtain an acquittal, evenfrom a judge who was his enemy. Thus it appears that every one 7 "Non eras in hoc albo;" see note inValpy, p. 177. A passage inQuintilian, lib. xii. cap. 4. p. 688, may serve to illustrate this use of the term album;" quorum alii se ad album ac rubricas transtule- runt...." 8 Cicero refers to this remark of Lucilius's in two of his other works,although with a variation in the expression and in the individuals specified;De Orat. lib. ii. sec. 6, and De Fin. lib. i. sec. 3. 9 "Qui primus condidit styli nasum." 1° " Sed haec ego mihi nunc patrocinia ademi nuncupatioue."