OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE: inimitable character of the style of Tacitus; by his reputation, -which guarded his text from the interpolations of pious fraud, andby the substance of his narration, which accused the first Christiansof the most atrocious crimes, without insinuating that they pos­sessed any miraculous or even magical powers above the rest ofmankind 55. 2. Notwithstanding it is probable that Tacitus wasborn some years before the fire of Rbme 36, he could derive onlyfrom reading and conversation the knowledge of an event whichhappened during his infancy. Before he gave himself to the pub­lic, he calmly waited till his genius had attained its full maturity,and he was more than forty years of age, when a grateful regardfor the memory of the virtuous Agricola, extorted from him themost early of those historical compositions which will delight andinstruct the most distant posterity. After making a trial of hisstrength in the life of Agricola and the description of Germany, heconceived, and at length executed, a more arduous work, the his­tory of Rome, in thirty books, from the fall of Nero to the acces­sion of Narva. The administration of Nerva introduced an age ofjustice and prosperity, which Tacitus had destined for the occu­pation of his old age37; but when*he took a nearer view of hissubject, judging, perhaps, that it was a more honourable, or a lessinvidious office, to record the vices of past tyrants, than to cele­brate the virtues of a reigning monarch, he chose rather to relate,under the form of annals, the actions of the four immediate successorsof Augustus. To collect, to dispose* and to adorn a series of fourscoreyears, in an immortal work, every sentence of which is pregnantwith the deepest observations and the most lively images, was an un­dertaking sufficient to exercise the genius of Tacitus himself duringthe greatest part of his life. In the last years of the. reign of Trajan,whilst the victorious monarch extended the power of Rome beyondits ancient limits, the historian was describing, in the second andfourth books of his annals, the tyranny of Tiberius33; and the6-! . emperot