OCR Output 4 IAPYGIA. JAS0N1UM. sascamo (Yutueh, near I'dbbia); Ct.fMnETAE{Grarluilz\ [E. B. J.] IAPV'GIA Clainryia), was the name given bythe Greeks to the SE. portion of Italy, bordering onthe Adriatic Sea, but the term was used with con­siderable vagueness, being sometimes restricted tothe extreme SK. point or peninsula, called also Mcs-sapia. and by the Romans Calabria; at other timesextended so as to include the whole of what theRomans termed Apulia, Thus Scylax describes tbewhole oast from I.urania to the promontory ofDrion (Mt. Gargsnus) as comprised in lapygia, anderru includes under that appellation the cities ofMetapontum and Heraclea on tbe gulf of Tarentum,which arc usually assigned to Lncania. Hence bestates that their coast-line extended for a space ofsix days and nights' voyage. (ScyL § 14. p. 5.)Polvhius at a Utter period used the name in aneigiiullv extended sense, so at to include the wholeof Apulia (iii. 88), as well as the Messapian penin­sula; but he elsewhere appears to use the name ofIapygians as equivalent to the Roman term Apulians,and distinguishes them from the Measapians (it24). This is, however, certainly contrary to theusage of earlier Greek writers. Herodotus distinctlyapplies the term of lapygia to the peninsula, andcalls the Measapians an Iapygian tribe; though heevidently did not limit it to this portion of Italy,and must have extended it, at all events, to tbeland of the Peucetians, if not of tbe Daunians also.( Herod, iv. 99, vii. 170.) Aristotle also clearly iden­tifies the Iapygiani with the Messapians (I'oL v.3), though the limits within which be applies thename of lapygia (lb. vii. 10) cannot be defined.Indeed, the name of the Iapygian promontory (jio«va i\ larvyia), universally given to the headlandwhich formed the extreme point of the peninsula,suftk iently proves that this was considered to belongto lapygia. Strabo confines the term of lapygia tothe peninsula, and says that it was called hy somelapygia, by others Messapia or Calabria. (Strab.vi. pp. 281, 282.) Appian and Dionysiua I'erie-getes, on the contrary, follow Polybius in applyingthe name of lapygia to the Roman Apulia, and tbelatter expressly says that the Iapygian tribes ex­tended as far as Hyrium on the N. side of Mt.Garganus. (Appian, Aim. 45; Dionys. Per. 379.)Ptolemy, as usual, follows the Roman writers, andadopts the names then in use for tbe divisions ofthis part of Italy: hence he ignores altogether thename of lapygia, which is not found in any Romanwriter as a geographical appellation; though theLatin poets, as usual, adopted it from the Greeks.(Virg. An. xi. 247; Ovid, Met. xv. 703.) We have no clue to tbe origin or meaning of tbename of lapygians, which was undoubtedly givento the pniple (Iai-voks, 'Idsvyu) before it wasapplied to the country which they inhabited. Nie-bulir (vol. i. p. 146) considers it as etymologicallyconnected with tbe Latin Apulia, but this is verydoubtful. The name appears to liave been a generalone, including several tribes or nations, amongwhich were the Measapians, Sallentiui, and Peuce­tians: hence Herodotus calls tbe Measapians, lapy­gians flifsvyei Mtaeiwm, vii. 170); and the twonames are frequently interchanged. The Greekniylhngraphers, as usual, derived the name from ahero, Iapyx, whom they represented at a son ofl.vraon, a descent probably intended to indicate theIVLwgic origiii of the lapvgians. (Anton. Liberal.•1; PliailL ILa, 16.) For a further account of the national affinities of the different tribes in thispart of Italy, as well as for n description of its phy­sical geographv, see the articles Ari'LiA and Cala­bria. [E. H. n.] lAPY'GHTM PROMONTO'RIUM ('Aroo lan-71a: Capo Sta. Maria di Aeuca), a headland whichforms the extreme SE. point of Italy, as well asthe extremity of the long peninsula or promontorythat divides the gulf of Tarentum from the Adriaticsea. It is this long projecting strip of land, com­monly termed the ketl of Italy, and designated bytbe Romans as Calabria, that was usually termedby the Greeks lapygia, whence the name of the pro­montory in question. The latter is well describedby Strabo as a rocky point extending far out to seatowards the SE., but inclining a little towards theLacinian promontory, which rises opposite to it, andtogether with it encloses the gulf of Tarentum. Hestates the interval between these two headlands, amiconsequently the width of the Tarentine gulf, atits entrance, at abont 700 stadia (70 G. miles),which slightly exceeds the truth. Pliny calls thesame distance 100 M. P. or 800 stadia; but the realdistance does not exceed 66 G. miles or 660 stadia.(Strab. vi. pp. 258, 281; Plin. iii. 11. s. 16; Pud.iii. 1. § 13; Polyb. x. 1.) The same point was also not nnfrcquently termedtheSalentine promontory (I'nnxoNTomcM Sai.kn-ttni'M, Mel. ii. 4. § 8; Ptnl. £ c), from the peopleof that name who inhabited the country immediatelyadjoining. Sallust applies tbe same name to thewhole of the Calabrian or Messapian peninsula.(Sail. ap. Strv. ad Am. iii. 400.) Its modem nameis derived from the ancient church of Sta. Maria diLeuca, situated close to the headland, and which haspreserved tbe name of the ancient town and port ofLeuca; tbe latter was situated immediately on theW. of tbe promontory, and afTorded tolerable shelterfor vessels. [Leuca.] Hence we find tbe Athenianfleet, in B. c. 415, on its way to Sicily, touching atthe Iapygian promontory after crossing from Cor-cyra (Thue. vi. 30, 44); and there ran be no doubtthat this was the customary course in proceedingfrom Greece to Sicily. [E. H. B.] lA'RHASl.'S ClipSarot), a river on the N. coastof Crete, near the banks of which the Cydoniansdwelt. (Horn. Od. iii. 292.) It is identified withthe rapid stream of the Platanid, which rises in theWhite Mountains, and, after flowing between theHhiziU villages of Therito and lAIci or Ldtus, runsthrough a valley formed by low hills, and filled withlofty platanes; from which it obtains its name. Tberiver of Plntaniii falls into the sea, nearly oppositetlie islet of lldghiot Thtodhorot, where there is goodanchorage. (Pashley, 7"rar. voL U. p. 22 : Hock,Krtta. voL i. pp. 23,' 384.) (E. B. J.] IARDANLS, a river of Elia. [Phkia.] JARZETHA. [LmrA.] IASI. [Uean.J JASONIUM ('laa-eVur Ptnl. vi. 10. $ 3), a townin Margiana, at the junction of tbe Margus (.If m-oA-db) and some small streams which flow into it. (Cf.also Ammian. xxiii. 6.) [V. 1 JASO'NR'M (re WoVior, Plol. vi. 2. §4;Strab. xi. p. 526), a mountain in Media, which ex­tended in a NW, direction from the M Parai hoatras(M. Elireml), forming the connecting link betweenthe Taurus and the outlying sjiurs of tlie Antitaurua.It is placed by Ptolemy U-twicn the Orontes ami theCoronna, [*'•] JASU'N'IL'M ('lafafttor), a promontory on tow