OCR Output ]80 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI, The Goihs The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been as^siege of sembled for the attack, and was almost entirely consumeda.°d?538 m the siege of Rome. If any credit be due to an in­ward, telligent spectator, one-third at least of their enormoushost was destroyed, in frequent and bloody combatsunder the walls of the city. The bad fame and per­nicious qualities of the summer air, might already beimputed to the decay of agriculture and population; andthe evils of famine and pestilence were agravated bytheir own licentiousness, and the unfriendly dispositionof the country. While Vitiges struggled with his for­tune; while he hesitated between shame and ruin, hisretreat was hastened by domestic alarms. . The king ofthe Goths was informed by trembling messengers, thatJohn the Sanguinary spread the devastations of war fromthe Appennine to the Hadriatic; that the rich spoils andinnumerable captives of Picenum were lodged in the,for­tifications of Rimini; and that this formidable chief haddefeated his uncle, insulted his capital, and seduced, bysecret correspondence, the fidelity of his wife, the im­perious daughter of Amalasontha. Yet, before he re­tired, Vitiges made a last effort either to storm or tosurprise the city. A secret passage was discovered inone of the aqueducts; two citizens of the Vatican weretempted by bribes to intoxicate the guards of the Aure-<lian gate; an attack was meditated on the walls beyondthe Tiber in a place which was not fortified with towers;and the barbarians advanced, with torches and scaling-ladders, to the assault of the Pincian gate. But everyattempt was defeated by the intrepid vigilance of Beli-sarius and, his band of veterans, who, in the most pe­rilous moments, did not regret the absence of their com­panions ; and the Goths, alike destitute of hope andsubsistence, clamorously urged their departure, before"the truce should expire, and the Roman cavalry shouldagain be united. One year and nine days after the com­mencement of the siege, an army so lately strong and