OCR Output CHAP. L. 273 at the hour of prayer, was supporting his steps on theshoulders of two slaves. Alas! (he replied) my coffersare empty! but these you may sell: if you refuse, I re­nounce them. At these words, pushing away the youths,he groped along the wall with his 'staff. The charac­ter of Hatem is the perfect model of Arabian virtue:"he was brave and liberal, an eloquent poet and a suc­cessful robber: forty camels were roasted at his hospi­table feast; and at the prayer of a suppliant enemy,he restored both the captives and the spoil. The free­dom of his countrymen disdained the laws of justice:they proudly indulged the spontaneous impulse ofpity and benevolence. The religion of the Arabs," as well as of the Indians,consisted in the worship of the sun, the moon, and thefixed stars, a primitive and specious mode of supersti­tion. The bright luminaries of the sky display the vi­sible image of a deity: their number and distance con­vey to a philosophic, or even a vulgar eye, the idea ofboundless space; the character of eternity is markedon these solid globes, that seem incapable of corrup­tion or decay; the regularity of their motions may beascribed to a principle of reason or instinct; and theirreal or imaginary influence encourages the vain beliefthat the earth and its inhabitants are the object of theirpeculiar care. The science of astronomy was culti­vated at Babylon; but the school of the Arabs was aclear firmament and a naked plain. In their .nocturnalmarches, they steered by the guidance of the stars:their names, and order, and daily station, were familiarto the curiosity and devption of the Bedoween; andhe was taught by experience to divide in twenty­ "D'Herbelot, Bibliot . Orient, p. 458. Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p.118. Caab and Hesnus (Pocock, Specimen, p. 43. 46. 48.) were likewise con­spicuous for i 1 ».•] r liberality; and the latter is elegantly praised by an Arabianpoet:—" Videbis earn cam accesseris ezultantem, ac si dares illi quod ab illopetis.'' * Whatever can be known of the idolatry of the ancient Arabians, may befound in Pocock. (Specimen, p. 89—136. 163,164.) His profound erudition ismore clearly and concisely interpreted by Sale; (Preliminary Discourse, p. 14—24.) and Assemanni (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 580—590.) has added some ralu-»ble remarks. VOL. VI. T