OCR Output 184 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. independent command. In vain deputies from the Romansenate endeavoured to effect a reconciliation; a personalconference between the generals, on which the officers in­sisted, only widened the breach. When Caepio saw Maximusnegotiating with the envoys of the Cimbrians, he fanciedthat the latter wished to gain the sole credit of their subju­gation, and threw himself with his portion of the army alonein all haste on the enemy. He was utterly annihilated, sothat even his camp fell into the hands of the enemy (6 Oct.105. 649); and his destruction was followed by the no less com­plete defeat of the second Soman army. It is asserted that80,000 Roman soldiers and half as many of the immenseand helpless body of camp-followers perished, and that onlyten men escaped: this much is certain, that only a few outof the two armies succeeded in escaping, for the Romanshad fought with the river in their rear. It was a calamitywhich materially and morally far surpassed the day ofCannae. The defeats of Carbo, of Silanus, and of Longinushad passed without producing any permanent impression onthe Italians. They were accustomed to open every warwith disasters; the invincibleness of the Roman arms wasso firmly established, that it seemed superfluous to attend tothe pretty numerous exceptions. But the battle of Arausio,the alarming proximity of the victorious Cimbrian army tothe undefended passes of the Alps, the insurrections break­ing out afresh and with increased force both in the Romanterritory beyond the Alps and among the Lusitanians, thedefenceless condition of Italy, produced a sudden and fear­ful awakening from these dreams. Men recalled the neverwholly forgotten Celtic inroads of the fourth century, theday on the Allia and the burning of Rome: with the doubleforce at once of the oldest remembrauce and the freshestalarm the terror of the Gauls came upon Italy; through allthe west people seemed to be aware, that the Roman empirewas beginning to totter. As after the battle of Cannae,the period of mourning was shortened by decree of thesenate.* The new enlistments brought out the most painfulscarcity of men. All Italians capable of arms had to swearthat they would not leave Italy; the captains of the vesselslying in the Italian ports were instructed not to take onboard any man fit for service. It is impossible to tell what * To this, beyond doubt, the fragment of Diodorus ( Vat. p. 122) relates.