OCR Output an. 1492.J 137 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. prevent any person from rolling down andperishing. Let him that has received any thing in trustfor another, take care to keep it sacred; andlet no one invent any contrivance, whereby todeprive him that hath intrusted it with himof the same; and this whether it be a man ora woman; no, not although he or she were togain an immense sum of gold; and this wherehe cannot be convicted of it by any body; forit is fit that a man's own conscience, whichknows what he hath, should in all cases obligehim to do well. Let his conscience be hiswitness, and make him always act so as may Etrocure him commendations from others; andet him chiefly have regard to God, fromwhom no wicked man can lie concealed. Butif he in whom the trust was reposed, withoutany deceit of his own, lose what he was in­trusted withal; let him come before the sevenjudges, and swear by God, that nothing hathbeen lost willingly, or with a wicked inten­tion; and that he hath not made use of anypart thereof. And so let him depart withoutblame.* But if he hath made use of the least f>art of what was committed to him, and it beost, let him be condemned to repay all thathe had received, after the same manner, asin these trusts, it is to be, if any one defraudthose that undergo bodily labour for him.And let it be always remembered, that we arenot to defraud a poor man of his wages; as be­ing sensible that God has allotted that wagesto him instead of land and other possessions.Nay, this payment is not at all to be delayed,but to be made that very day;f since God isnot willing to deprive the labourer of the im­mediate use of what he hath laboured for. You are not to punish children for <he faultsof their parents ;J but on account of their ownvirtue rather to vouchsafe them commisera­tion, because they were born of wicked pa­rents; than hatred, because they were bornof bad ones. Nor indeed ought we to imputethe sin of children to their fathers; whileyoung persons indulge themselves in manypractices different from those they have beeninstructed in, and this by their refusal of suchinstruction. * Exod. xxii. 7, 11. -f £,evit. xix. 13. Deut. xxiv. 14, 16. i I>e«t. xxiv. 16. Let those that have made themselves eu-nuchs|| be had in detestation; and do youavoid any conversation with them who havedeprived themselves of their manhood, andof that which God had given to men, for theincrease of their kind. Let such be drivenaway, as if they had killed their children;since they beforehand have lost what shouldprocure them. For it is evident, that whiletheir soul is become effeminate, they havewithal transfused that effeminacy to theirbody also. In like manner do you treat allthat is of a monstrous nature, when it islooked on. Nor is it lawful to castrate eithermen, or any other animals.§ Let this be the constitution of your politicallaws, in times of peace; and God will be somerciful as to preserve this excellent settle­ment free from disturbance. And may thattime never come, which may innovate anything, and change it for the contrary; butsince it must needs happen that mankind fallinto troubles and dangers, either undesign­edly, or intentionally, let us make a few con­stitutions concerning them; that so being ap­prised beforehand what ought to be done,you may have salutary counsels ready whenyou want them; and may not then be obligedto seek what is to be done, and so be unpro­vided, and fall into dangerous circumstances.May you be a laborious people, and exerciseyour souls in virtuous actions, and therebypossess and inherit the land without wars;while neither any foreigners make war uponit, and SO afflict you, nor any internal seditionseize upon it; whereby you may do thingsthat are contrary to your fathers, and so losethe laws which they have established. Andmay you continue in the observance of thoselaws which God hath approved, and hath de­livered to you. Let all sort of warlike opera­tions, whether they befall you now, in yourown time, or hereafter in the times of yourposterity, be done out of your own borders.But when you are about to go to war, sendambassages and heralds to those who are yourvoluntary enemies; for it is a right thing tomake use of words to them, before you cometo your weapons of war; and assure them II Deut. xxiii. 1.• § We may hence observe, that the Jews could have nooxen, but only bulls and cows, in Judea.