OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. the Persians had not been accustomed either to dreadthe rigour, or to despise the weakness, of their sovereign.The revolt of Bahram, and the conspiracy of the satraps,were impartially punished by the revenge or justice ofthe conqueror; the merits of Bindoes himself could notpurify his hand from the guilt of royal blood; and theson of Hormouz was desirous to assert his own inno­cence, and to vindicate the sanctity of kings. Duringthe vigour of the Roman power, several princes wereseated on the throne of Persia by the arms and the au­thority of the first Caesars. But their new subjects weresoon disgusted with the vices or virtues which they hadimbibed in a foreign land; the instability of their domi­nion gave birth to a vulgar observation, that the choiceof Rome was solicited and rejected with equal ardour bythe capricious levity of oriental slaves.5 But the gloryof Maurice was conspicuous in the long and fortunatereign of his son and his ally. A band of a thousand Ro­mans, who continued to guard the person of Chosroes,proclaimed its confidence in the fidelity of the strangers;his growing strength enabled him to dismiss his unpo­pular aid, but he steadily professed the same gratitudeand reverence to his adopted father; and till the death ofMaurice, the peace and alliance of the two empires werefaithfully maintained. Yet the mercenary friendship ofthe Roman prince had been purchased with costly andimportant gifts: the strong cities of Martyropolis andDara were restored, and the Persarmenians became thewilling subjects of an empire, whose eastern limit wasextended, beyond the example of her former times, asfar as the banks of the Araxes and the neighbourhood ofthe Caspian. A pious hope was indulged, that the church,as well as the state, might triumph in this revolution;but if Chosroes had sincerely listened to the Christian ■ Experimenlis cognitnm est barbaros malle Roma petere regei qaam habere.These experiments are admirably represented in the invitation and expulsion of Vo­lumes, (Annal. 2.1—3.) Tiridates, (Annal. 6.32—14.) and Meherdates, (Annal. 11.10. 12. 10—f4.) The ejo of Tacitus seems to have transpierced the camp of th*1'arlhians and the walls of the liaraiu.