OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.'—59 BOOK ] VIM. gratify a wanton humor, quit the service whenever theymight choose. The standards would be forsaken : themen would neither assemble in pursuance of orders,nor attend to the difference of fighting by night or byday, on favorable or unfavorable ground. In a word,military operations, instead of the regularity esta­blished under the sanction of a sacred solemnity,would become like those of freebooters directed bychance and accident. Render yourselves then, tri­bunes of the commons, accountable for all these evilsto all future ages. Expose your own persons to theseheavy imputations in defence of the licentious conductof Quintus Fabius.' 35. The tribunes stood confounded, and were nowmore anxiously concerned at their own situation thanat his who sought their support, when they were freedfrom this embarrassment by the Roman people una­nimously having recourse to prayers and intreaties,that the dictator would for their sakes remit the pu­nishment of the master of the horse. The tribuneslikewise, seeing the business take this turn, followedthe example, earnestly beseeching the dictator to par­don human error, to consider the immaturity of theoffender's age, who had suffered sufficiently : and nowthe youth himself, now his father, Marcus Fabius, dis­claiming farther contest, fell at the dictator's knees,and deprecated his wrath. Then the dictator, aftercausing silence, said: ' Romans, it is well. Militarydiscipline has prevailed ; the majesty of governmenthas prevailed; both which were in danger of ceasingthis day to exist. Quintus Fabius, who fought con­trary to the order of his commander, is not acquittedof guilt; but, after being condemned as guilty, isgranted as a boon to the Roman people ; is granted tothe college of tribunes, supporting him with theirprayers, not with the regular power of their office.Live, Quintus Fabius, more happy in this union of allparts of the state for your preservation than in thevictory in which you lately exulted. Live, after hav­ing ventured on such an act, as yoiy father himself