OCR Output »64 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. "How violent soever your resentment and thirst ibr re-"venge, did not the sight of these plains disarm your"rage? And when you came within sight of Rome, did"you not then think within yourself, those walls which I"am about to attack, contain all that is dear tome in the"wortd—mv house—my household gods—my mother—-"my .wife—mv children ! Alas! had I not been a mother, . " Rome would not have been besieged. Had I not had"a son, I should have died free, in a free country. But"1 can suffer nothing now that is not more shameful for"you, than miserable for me; nor can my misery, how-"ever great at present, be of long continuance. Let"these infants be your care, who, if you persist, must"either suffer an untimely death, or a long servitude." His wife and children then saluted him. The tearsand lamentations of all the Roman ladies, for their ownaccount and that of their country, at length softenedCoriolanus. He embraced his relations, and dismissedthem; soon after he decamped, and marched his armyback from the city.—Accoiding to some accounts, theVolsci were so exasperated at his withdrawing the legi­ons from the Roman territory, that they put him to death. .Others give a different account of the matter. Fabius,by far the most ancient author extant, affirms, that helived to a great old age; and mentions a saying of his inthe decline of life, " that banishment was iti all cases in-"supportable, but especially to an old man." The men were not jealous of the encomiums bestowedupon the women: for such was their disinterestedness,that none endeavoured to detract from the glory of ano­ther. To preserve the remembrance of so singular anevent by a public monument, they built and dedicateda temple to Female Fortune. The Volsci once more, inconjunction with the /Equi, returned into the Roman ter­ritory; but the jEqui refused to fight under the commandof Attius Tullus. This contest about the nomination ofa general, who should command both armies, was pro­ductive at first of a quarrel, which ended in a bloodybattle. There the fortune of the Roman people dispatchedtwo formidable armies, in a battle no less fatal to thecombatantsi, than it was obstinate. The consuls for the ensuing year, were T. Sicinius and