OCR Output Chap. II.J AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 73 menfc of aristocratic nobodies. Even the inaction of thegovernment in its outward relations was doubtless connectedwith this policy of the nobility, exclusive towards commoners,and distrustful towards the individual members of their ownorder. By no surer means could they keep commoners,whose deeds were their patent of nobility, aloof from thepure circles of the aristocracy than by giving no opportunityto any one to perform deeds at all; to the existing govern­ment of general mediocrity even an aristocratic conquerorof Syria or Egypt would have proved extremely inconve­nient. It is true that now also there was no want of opposition, Attempts atand it was even to a certain extent effectual. The adminis- reform,tration of justice was improved. The administrative juris- Permanentdiction, which the senate exercised either personally or """"I"1by extraordinary commissions, as occasion required, over ^ons-the provincial magistrates, was confessedly inadequate. Itwas an innovation with a momentous bearing on the wholepublic life of the Roman community, when in 605, on the 149.proposal of Lucius Calpurnius Piso, a standing senatorialcommission (qucestio ordinaries was instituted to try injudicial form the complaints oi the provincials regarding theextortion of their Roman magistrates. An effort was made Vote byto emancipate the comitia from the preponderating influence ballot,of the aristocracy. The panacea of Roman democracy wasvote by ballot in the assemblies of the burgesses, whichwas introduced first for the elections of magistrates by theGabinian law (615), then for the public tribunals by the 139.Cassian law (617), lastly for the voting on legislative pro- 137.posals by the Papirian law (623). In a similar way soon 131.afterwards (about 625) the senators were by decree of the 129.people enjoined to surrender their public horse on admission Exclusion ofto the senate, and thereby to renounce their privilege of the senatorsvoting in the eighteen equestrian centuries (ii. 320). These from tliemeasures, directed to the emancipation of the electoral body e<luestrmnfrom the ruling order, may perhaps have seemed to the partywhich suggested them the first steps towards a regenerationof the state; in fact, they made not the slightest change in 602, with the speoial circumstances of which we are not acquainted, gaveoccasion to the law prohibiting re-election to the consulship altogether (Liv,Ep. 56); especially as this proposal must have been introduced before 605,seeing that it was supported by Cato (p. 55, Jordan). r