OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 321 According to the tradition of the nocturnal journey, the apostle, in his personalconference with the Deity, was commanded to impose on his disciples the dailyobligation of fifty prayers. By the advice of Moses, he applied for an alleviationof this intolerable burden; the number was gradually reduced to five; without anydispensation of business or pleasure, or time or place, the devotion of the faithfulis repeated at day-break, at noon, in the afternoon, in the evening, and at the firstwatch of the night; and, in the present decay of religious fervour, our travellersare edified by the profound humility and attention of the Turks and Persians.Cleanliness is the key of prayer: the frequent lustration of the hands, the face,and the body, which was practised of old by the Arabs, is solemnly enjoined bythe Koran; and a permission is formally granted to supply with sand the scarcityof water. The words and attitudes of supplication, as it is performed either sit­ting, or standing, or prostrate on the ground, are prescribed by custom or authority,but the prayer is poured forth in short and fervent ejaculations; the measure ofzeal is not exhausted by a tedious liturgy; and each Mussulman, for his own per­son, is invested with the character of a priest. Amongst the theists, who rejectthe use of images, it has been found necessary to restrain the wanderings of thefancy, by directing the eye and the thought towards a kcbla, or visible point of thehorizon. The prophet was at first inclined to gratify the Jews by the choice ofJerusalem; but he soon returned to a more natural partiality; and five times everyday the eyes of the nations of Astracan, at Fez, at Delhi, are devoutly turned tothe holy temple of Mecca. Yet every spot for the service of God is equally pure;the Mahometans indifferently pray in their chamber, or in the street. As a dis­tinction from the Jews and Christians, the Friday in each week is set apart for theuseful institution of public worship: the people are assembled in the mosch; and theiman, some respectable elder, ascends the pulpit, to begin the prayer, and pro­nounce the sermon. But the Mahometan religion is destitute of priesthood orsacrifice; and the independent spirit of fanaticism looks down with contempt onthe ministers and the slaves of superstition. II. The voluntary(l) penance of theascetics, the torment and glory of their lives, was odious to a prophet who cen­sured in his companions a rash vow of abstaining from flesh, and women, and sleep;and firmly declared that he would sutler no monks in his religion.(2) Yet he in­stituted, in each year, a fast of thirty days: and strenuously recommended the ob­servance, as a discipline which purifies the soul and subdues the body, as a salu­tary exercise of obedience to the will of God and his apostle. During the monthof Ramadan, from the rising to the setting of the sun, the Mussulman abstainsfrom eating, and drinking, and women, and baths, and perfumes; from all nourish^ment that can restore his strength, from all pleasure that can gratify his senses.In the revolution of the lunar year, the Ramadan coincides by turns with thewinter cold, and the summer heat; and the patient martyr, without assuaging histhirst with a drop of water, must expect the close of a tedious and sultry day. Theinterdiction of wine, peculiar to some orders of priests or hermits, is converted byMahomet alone into a positive and general law:(3) and a considerable portion ofthe globe has abjured, at his command, the use of that salutary, though dangerousliquor. These painful restraints are, doubtless, infringed by the libertine, andeluded by the hypocrite: but the legislator, by whom they are enacted, cannotsurely be accused of alluring his proselytes by the indulgence of their sensual ap­petites. III. The charity of the Mahometans descends to the animal creation;and the Koran repeatedly inculcates, not as a merit, but as a strict and indispen­sable duty, the relief of the indigent and unfortunate. Mahomet, perhaps, is theonly lawgiver who has defined the precise measure of charity: the standard mayvary with the degree and nature of property, as it consists either in money, in cornor cattle, in fruits or merchandise: but the Mussulman does not accomplish the Tournefort (Voyage du Levant, torn. ii. p. 325—360, in octavo) describes what he had seen or the religion ofthe Turks. (1) Mahomet (Sale's Koran, c. ix. p. 157.) reproaches the Christians with taking their priests and monks fortheir lords, besides God. Yet Maracci (Prodromus. part iii. p. 69, 70.) excuses the worship, especially of thepope, and quotes, from the Koran itself, the case of Eblis, or Satan, who was cast from heaven for refusing toadore Adam. (2) Koran, e. v. p. 94 and Sale's note, which refers to the authority of Jallalodilin and Al Beidawi. D'Herhe-lot declares, that Mahomet condemned la vie rcligietise, and that the first swarms of fakirs, dermises, Sec. did notappear till after the year 300 of the Hecira (Riblioih. Orient, p. 292—718.) (3) See the double prohibition (Koran, e. ii. p. 25. c. v. p. 94.:) the One in the style of a legislator, the otherin that of a fanatic. The public aird private motives of Mahomet are investigated by Prideaux (Life of Maho­met, p. 62—64.) and Sale (Preliminary Discourse, p. 124.) Vol. III. . 41