OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 61 Corinth, the first commercial city in Greece, remains a darkstain on the annals of Rome. By express orders from thesenate the Corinthian citizens were seized, and such aswere not killed were sold into slavery; the city itself wasnot only deprived of its walls and its citadel—a measurewhich, if the Romans were not disposed permanently togarrison it, was certainly inevitable—but was levelled withthe ground, and all rebuilding on the desolate site was pro­hibited in the usual forms of accursing; part of its territorywas given to Sicyon under the obligation that the lattershould defray the expense of the Isthmian national festivalin room of Corinth, but the greater portion was declaredto be public land of Rome. Thus was extinguished "theeye of Hellas," the last precious ornament of the Grecian landonce so rich in cities. If, however, we review the wholecatastrophe, the impartial historian must acknowledge—what the Greeks of this period themselves candidly con­fessed—that the Romans were not to blame for the waritself, but that on the contrary the foolish perfidy and thefeeble temerity of the Greeks compelled the Roman inter­vention. The abolition of the mock sovereignty of theleagues and of all the vague and pernicious dreams con­nected with them was a blessing for the country; and thegovernment of the Roman commander-in-chief of Macedonia,however much it fell short of what was to be wished, wasyet far better than the previous confusion and misrule otGreek confederacies and Roman commissions. The Pelopon­nesus ceased to be the great harbour of mercenaries; it isaffirmed, and may readily be believed, that with the directgovernment of Rome security and prosperity in some mea­sure returned throughout the land. The epigram of Themi-stocles, that ruin had averted ruin, was applied by the Greeksof that day not altogether without reason to the loss of Greekindependence. The singular indulgence, which Rome evennow showed towards the Greeks, is brought fully to lightonly by comparison with the contemporary conduct of thesame authorities towards the Spaniards and Phoenicians. Totreat barbarians with cruelty seemed not unallowable, butthe Romans of this period, like the Emperor Trajan in latertimes, deemed it "harsh and barbarous to deprive Athensand Sparta of the shadow of freedom which they stillretained." All the more marked is the contrast betweenthis general moderation and the revolting treatment of