OCR Output THE LIFE OP FLAVHJS JOSEPHU9. 193 tnong the Jews against the Romans. So he slew him. Andwhen this freed-man of Philip did not return again, Philip wasdoubtful what should be the occasion of his stay, and sent a se­cond messenger with letters, that he might, upon his return, in-fcrrn him what had befallen the other that had been sent before,and why he tarried so long. Varus accused this messenger also,when he came, of telling a falsehood, and slew him. For he waspuffed up by the Syrians that were at Cesarea, and had great ex­pectations ; for they said that Agrippa would be slain by the Ro­mans for the crimes which the Jews had committed, and that heshould himself take the government, as derived from their kings ;for Varus was, by the confession of all, of the royal family, as be­ing a descendant of Sohemus, who had enjoyed a tetrarchy aboutLibanus ; for which reason it was that he was puffed up, andkept the letters to himself. He contrived, also, that the kingshould not meet with those writings, by guarding all the passes,lest any one should escape, and inform the king what had beendone. He moreover slew many of the Jews, in order to gratifythe Syrians of Cesarea. He had a mind also to join with theTrachonites in Batanea, and to take up arms and make an assaultupon the Babylonian Jews that were at Ecbatana; for that wasthe name they went by. He therefore called to him twelve ofthe Jews of Cesarea, of the best character, and ordered them togo to Ecbalana, and inform their countrymen who dwelt there,that Varus hath heard, that " you intend to march against the" king ; but, not believing that report, he hath sent us to per-" suade you to lay down your arms, and that this compliance" will be a sign, that he did well not to give credit to those that" raised the report concerning you." He also enjoined them tosend seventy of their principal men to make a defence for themas to the accusation laid against them. So when the twelvemessengers came to their countrymen at Ecbatana, and foundthat they had no designs of innovation at all, they persuadedthem to send the seventy men also ; who not at all suspectingwhat would come, sent them accordingly. So these seventy *went down to Cesarea, together with the twelve * ambassadors;where Varus met them with the king's forces, and slew themall, together with the [twelve] ambassadors, and made an ex­pedition against the Jews of Ecbatana. But one there was of theseventy who escaped, and made haste to inform the Jews of theircoming ; upon which they took their arms, with their wives andchildren, and retired to the citadel at Gamala, leaving their ownvillages full of alll sorts of good things, and having many tenthousands of cattle therein. When Philip was informed of these things, * The famous Jevrhh numbers of twelve and seventy are here remarkaWe.