OCR Output MESSENIA. 343 MESSENIA. tinaed to belong to the kings of Pylus. (Pans, iv.3. § 1.) Hence Euripides, in referring to the mythictunes, makes the Pamisus the boundary of Laconiaand Messenia; for which he is reproved by Strabo,because this was not the case in the time of thegeographer. (Strab. viii. p. 366.) Of the sevencities which Agamemnon in the Iliad (ix. 149)offers to Achilles, some were undoubtedly in Messe­nia ; bat as only two, Phente and Cardamyle, retainedtheir Homeric names in the historical age, it is diffi­cult to identify the other five, (Strab. viii. p. 359;Diod. xr. 66.) With the conquest of Peloponnesus by the Doriansa new epoch commences in the history of Messenia.This country fell to the lot of Cresphontes, who isrepresented as driving the Keleidae out of Pylus andmaking himself master of the whole country. Ac­cording to the statement of Ephorus (ap. Strab. viii.p. 361), Cresphontes divided Laconia into tive parts,of which he made Stenyclerus the royal residence.*In the other four towns he appointed viceroys, andbestowed npon the former inhabitants the same rightsand privileges as the Dorian conquerors. But thispave offence to the Dorians; and he was obliged tocollect them all in Stenyclerus, and to declare this the * Of the other four parts Strabo mentions Pylus,KHium, and Hyameitis; but the passage is corrupt,and the name of Mesola should probably be addedto complete the number. (M tiller, Dorians, vol. i.!'. Ul,transl.) Stephanas B. calls Mesola, a cityof Messeoe, one of the five (*. r. MearfAa); and Straboin another passage (viii. p. 361) describes it aslying towards the gulf between Taygetus and Mes­senia; and as the latter name can only apply to thewestern part of the country, Mesola was probablythe di&trict between Taygetus and the Pamisus.Pylus apparently comprehended the whole westerncoast Khinm is the southern peninsula, oppositeTaenarum. (Strab. viii. p. 360.) The position ofHunwitis, of which the city was called Hyameia(Tf^wa, Steph. B. $. p.), is quite uncertain. only city of Messenia. Notwithstanding these con­cessions, the Dorians put Cresphontes and all hischildren to death, with the exception of Aepytus,who was then very young, and was living with hisgrandfather Cypselus in Arcadia. When this youthhad grown up, he was restored to his kingdom by thehelp of the Arcadians, Spartans, and Argives. FromAepytus the Messenian kings were called Aepytidae,in preference to Heracleidae, and continued to reignin Stenyclerus till the sixth generation,—their namesbeing Aepytus, Glaucus,Isthmius, Dotadas, Sybotas,Phintas,— when the first Messenian war with Sparta.began. (Paus. iv. 3.) According to the commonlegend, which represents the Dorian invaders asconquering Peloponnesus at one stroke, Cresphontesimmediately became master of the whole of Messenia.But, as in the case of Laconia [Laconia], there isgood reason for believing this to be the inventionof a later age, and that the Dorians in Messenia wereat fir&t confined to the plain of Stenyclerus. Theyappear to have penetrated into this plain fromArcadia, and their whole legendary history points totheir close connection with the latter country.Cresphontes himself married the daughter of theArcadian king Cypselus; and the name of his sonAepytus, from whom the line of the Messenian kingswas called, was that of an ancient Arcadian hero.(Horn. //. ii. 604, Schol. ad loc. ] comp. Grote, Histof Greece, vol. ii. p. 437, seq.) The Messenian wars with Sparta are related inevery history of Greece, and need not be repeatedhere. According to the common chronology, the firstwar lasted from B.C. 743 to 724, and the secondfrom B.C. 685 to 668; but both of these dates areprobably too early. It is necessary, however, to glanceat the origin of the first war, because it is connectedwitli a disputed topographical question, which hasonly recently received a satisfactory solution. Mt.Taygetus rises abruptly and almost precipitouslyabove the valley of the Eurotas, but descends moregradually, and in many terraces, on the other side.The Spartans had at a very early period taken pos­ MAP OF THE AGER DKNTIIEUATES,e a. Site of the boundary stones. z 4