OCR Output HLAESTIXA. PALAESTINA. 517 ''i* iocndaries, as do the sacred writers andy*[lax, we may cow take a general view of its>iir«il features which have always so much to dorj) the formation of the character of the inha-l-ianta. It is well described in its principal fea-tsm, b tbe book of Deuteronomy, as " a land oflnii of water, of fountains and depths, that spring*r of TaQets and hills; a land of wheat, and barley,i-klnacs,and fig-trees,and pomegranates: a land of44m, ad hooey; a land wherein thou shalt eatwithout scarceness; thou shalt not lack any-enr b it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of»ha» Mb tioo mayest dip; brass" (viii. 7—9;««& a. 11,12). The great variety of its naturalunices must be ascribed to the diversified cha-kt fortace and the natural richness of itsni. which was obviously taxed to the utmost by=»al*trTof its numerous inhabitants; for thereb fc> jut of tbe hill countrr, however at presentfeta> and depopulated, which does not bear evi-«w -f ancient agricultural labour in it agricultural labour in its scarpedM> ad ruined terrace-walls; while in the vicinity4 a ajodera villages, the rude traditionary style^ taaUnrirr, unimproved and unvaried for 3000•an, raitiea tbe traveller to realise the ancientawufcy at' this highly favoured land, and the oc-flscKWi of its inhabitants, as well as the genius4 tatr pnetrr, all whose images are borrowed fromar-r^nd and pastoral pursuits. As the peculiarcWrterbtie feature in the geography of Greece isfcrsrt proportion of its sea-border to its superficial» toe peculiarity of the geography of Palestinefa? W aul to be tbe undue proportion of mountain,frranW hill country, to its extent. In the districtsf TiW^ Akka, and Damascus, three descriptions£ «. pTTiiL In general that of the mountainousv Palestine and central Syria is dry and stony, tfmvd in a great measure from the debris ofaf which a large portion of the surface of tbe» of Lebanon, the Hauran, and Ledja, withcountries of Judaea, are composed;ft «■ ifd, however, with the alluvium constantlyP(V. d'-wa by the irrigating streams. Thosad richest district are the plains of Es-Kaalbek, part of the Decapolis,castas, as well as the valleys of the JordanEtea, which fur the most part consist of a\ aanr *<il Being almost without a pebble, its-abra dry, a fine brown earth, like garden■"tacit, whm saturated by the rains, is ■ ^^rrire, and in the early part of thef Wanes a marsh: when cultivated, most■t orp of tobacco, cotton, and grain areI TV mnaiDdeT of tbe territory chiefly ■ af toe plains called Barr by the Arabs, and'rr tt* Hebrews, both words signifying simplyt 4 bad left entirely to nature, and beingI t" the pasture tracts about almost everyt Syria, as well as to those spots where vegc-eatirely fails. Such spots prevail inatj 'xwirfM the eastern side of the country,■V «d is mostly an indurated clay, witharntrej of Erne* tone bills separating different4!kr ■trfice. The better description of soillaaawhr diverstned bv bill and dale, and has*4 toe %\ pnuance of some of our downs, butHi *tta the bquorice plant, mixed withhahrtai, and occsu>iuiutlly some dwarf trees, ■ '-i* 'ainari>k and acacia. Many of the•attvaH of the Jordan (Peraea) are of this ^*«. farocsuarly those near the Hauran, which, under the name of Roman Arabia, had Bozrafor its capital. The inferior tracts are frequentlycoated with pebbles and black flints, having little,and sometimes no vegetation. Such are the greaterportions of the tracts southward of Gaza andHebron, and that part of the pashalick which bordersupon Arabia Deserta, where scarcity of water hasproduced a wilderness, which at best is only capableof nourishing a limited number of sheep, goats, andcamels: its condition is the worst in summer, atwhich season little or no rain falls throughout theeastern parts of Syria. Owing to the inequality of its surface, Palestinehas a great variety of temperature and climate,which have been distributed as follows.—(1) Thecold; (2) warm and humid; (3) warm and dry. Thefirst belongs principally to the Lel»anon range andto Mount Hermon, in tho extreme north of thecountry, but is shared in some measure by themountain districts of Kablus, Jerusalem, amiHebron, where the winters arc often very severe,the springs mild, and a refreshing breeze tempersthe summer heat. The second embraces the slopesadjoining the coast of the Mediterranean, togetherwith the adjacent plains of Akka, Jaffa, and Gaza;also those in the interior, such as Esdraelon, thevalley of the Jordan, and part of Peraea. The thirdprevails in the south-eastern parts of Syria, thecontiguity of which to the arid deserts of burningsand, exposes them to the furnace-blasts of thesirocco untempered by the humid winds which pre­vail to the west of the central highlands, while thedepression of the southern part of the Jordan valleyand the Dead Sea gives to the plain of Jericho andthe districts in the vicinity of that sea an Egyptianclimate. (Col. Chesney, Expedition to the Euphrates,$c. vol. i. pp. 533—537.) II. Gkology, Natural Divisions, and Pro­ductions. The general geographical position of Palestine iswell described in the following extract: — "Thatgreat mountain chain known to the ancients underthe various names of Imaus, Caucasus, and Tauru.s,which extends due east and west from China toAsia Minor; this chain, at the point where it entersAsia Minor, throws off to the southward a subor­dinate ridge of hills, which forms the barrier be­tween the Western Sea and the plains of Syriaand Assyria. After pursuing a tortuous course fursome time, and breaking into the parallel ridges ofLibanus and Antilibanus, it runs with many breaksand divergencies through Palestine and the Arabianpeninsula to the Indian Ocean. One of the mastremarkable of these breaks is the great plain ofEsdraelon, the battle-field of the East. From thispoint. . . the ridge or mountainous tract extends,without interruption, to the south end of the DeadSea, or further. This whole tract rises graduallytowards the south, forming the hill country ofEphraim and Judah, until, in the vicinity of Hebron,it attains an altitude of 3250 feet above the level ofthe Mediterranean. At a point exactly opposite tothe extreme north of the Dead Sea, i.e. due westfrom it, where the entire ridge has an elevation ofabout 2710 feet, and close to the saddle of theridge, a very remarkable feature of this rocky pro­cess, so to call it. occurs. The appearance is as ifa single, but vast wave of this sea of rock, risingand swelling gradually from north to south, hadbeen suddenly checked in its advance, and. after a I. L 3 I