OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7Q 1 abused her triumph over the impotence of the laws. VI. The testament of Eulalius, count of the domestics,declared the emperor his sole heir, on condition, how­ever, that he should discharge his debts and legacies,allow to his three daughters a decent maintenance, andbestow each of them in marriage, with a portion of tenpounds of gold. But the splendid fortune of Eulaliushad been consumed by fire; and the inventory of hisgoods did not exceed the trifling sum of five hundredand sixty-four pieces of gold. A similar instance inGrecian history, admonished the emperor of the honour­able part prescribed for his imitation. He checked theselfish murmurs of the treasury, applauded the confidenceof his friend, discharged the legacies and debts, educatedthe three virgins under the eye of the empress Theodora,and doubled the marriage-portion which had satisfiedthe tenderness of their father." The humanity of aprince (for princes cannot be generous) is entitled tosome praise; yet even in this act of virtue we may dis­cover the inveterate custom of supplanting the legal ornatural heirs, which Procopius imputes to the reign ofJustinian. His charge is supported by eminent namesand scandalous examples; neither widows nor orphanswere spared; and the art of soliciting, or extorting, orsupposing testaments, was beneficially practised by theagents of the palace. This base and mischievous tyrannyinvades the security of private life; and the monarch,who has indulged an appetite for gain, will soon be tempt­ed to anticipate the moment of succession, to interpretwealth as an evidence of guilt, and to proceed, from theclaim of inheritance, to the power of confiscation, VII. Among the forms of rapine, a philosopher may bepermitted to name the conversion of Pagan or hereticalriches to the use of the faithful; but in the time of Jus­tinian this holy plunder was condemned by the sec- » A similar or more generous acl of friendship is related by Lncian of Kudanmlasof Corinth, (in Toiare, o. 22, 23. turn. I. p. 530.) and the story hat prodaced an in-jftiious, though feeble, comedy of Fonlencllc.