OCR Output CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. CHAP. XXVII. ^•< . •" Disputes about the debts betvxen the Senate and People. jT\.FrERthe defeat of the Arunci, the Romans whobad been victorious in so many battles, in so short atime, now fully expected, thai the promises made themby the consul and senate, would have been put in execu­tion. But Appius, from the native haughtiness of histemper, and with a view to make void the promise hiscolleague had made the people, adjudged the causes ofthe debtors, with all the rigour the law would admit. Inconsequence of which, they, who before had been prison­ers, were delivered up to (heir creditors again, and otherswere also added to the list. When diligence was to be executed against a soldier,he immediately applied to the other consul. To Servi-lius the multitude crowded for relief. They remindedhim <-f his promises, enumerating their respective ser­vices, and exposing the wounds they had received. Theypressed him to lay their case before the senate, that astheir consul, he might protect his citizens, and as theirgeneral, his soldiers. These arguments had sufficient weight with 'the con­sul, but circumstances obliged him to temporize: for hehad not only his colleague to combat with, but the wholebody of the Patricians were unanimous against him. Inendeavouring to please both parties, he had the good-willof neither. - The senators considered him as a soft easyconsul, that flattered the multitude, and the people pro­nounced him a cheat, and it soon appeared that he wasbated as much as Appius. A dispute arose about the dedication of the temple ofMercury, an honour, which each of the consuls claimedas his right. The senate referred the cognizance of thataffair to the people, aml enacted, that whoever should bepromoted to that honour, should preside in the court ofvictuallers, establish a board of trade, and act as highpriest, within the verge of the temple. The people gave that honourable commission to M.Loetonus, the first centurion of a legion; but it was abuu­