OCR Output 32(5" TITUS^IVIUS' BOOK IV. CHAP. X. T7ie Volsci beat. Peace restored to Ardea. The consultriumphs. JL HE general of the Volsci, who till then had trustedfor victualling his army, to the corn got from day today, in ravaging the lands of the nobility, having pre­pared no magazines for that purpose; when he saw him­self all of a sudden blocked up, and thereby deprived ofevery means of subsistence, invited the consul to an in­terview, and told him, That if he had come with an in­tention to raise the siege, that he was willing instantlyto withdraw the Volsci. The consul, in answer, gavehim to understand, that it was incumbent on the con­quered to receive terms, but^not to prescribe them:and, since they had come to besiege the allies of Rome,at their own pleasure, they must only depart at his plea­sure. Wherefore, he orders them to lay down theirarms, tor give up their general, acknowledge themselvesconquered, and submit to his orders. If they did not,they .might expect no quarter, whether they raised orcarried on the siege; as he would much rather return toRome crowned with victory, than with the terms of atreacherous capitulation. The Volsci, now cut off from all hopes, except whatlittle they placed'in their arms, resolved to give it atrial;but, besides other disadvantages, having engaged in aplace improper for fighting, and still more so for flying,and being slaughtered at all quarters, they put »p theirswords and fell on their knees'; when after they had de­livered up their general, and laid down their arms, thevwere obliged to pass under the yoke, and dismissed withclothes only sufficient to conceal their nakedness, cover­ed, however, with s.hnme and disgrace. When they hadhalted at some distance from Tusculnm, the people thers-,who had long been their declared enemies, rose up on.them, fell upon them unarmed, and scarce left one tocarry home the news of their disaster. The"Roma" consul re-established peace and tranquil­lity at Ardea, having beheaded the principal authors of