OCR Output 382 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. and striving probably appeared to him folly in a world, whichwithal was absolutely governed by chance, and in which, ifmen were to strive after anything at all, this chance could bethe only aim of their efforts. He followed the general tend­ency of the age to be addicted at once to unbelief and tosuperstition. His whimsical credulity was not the plebeiansuperstition of Marius, who got a priest to prophesy to himfor money and determined his actions accordingly ; still lesswas it the sullen belief of the fanatic in destiny ; it was thatfaith in the absurd, which necessarily makes its appearancein every man who has thoroughly ceased to believe in a con­nected order of things—the superstition of the fortunateplayer, who deems himself privileged by fate to throw oneach and every occasion the right number. In practicalmatters Sulla understood very well how to satisfy ironicallythe demands of religion. When he emptied the treasuries ofthe Greek temples, he declared that the man could neverfail whose chest was replenished by the gods themselves.When the Delphic priests reported to him that they wereafraid to send the treasures which he asked, because theharp of the god emitted a clear sound when they touchedit, he returned the reply that they might now send themall the more readily, as the god evidently approved hisdesigns. Nevertheless he fondly flattered himself with theidea that he was the chosen favourite of the gods, and in analtogether special manner of the goddess to whom down tohis latest years he assigned the pre-eminence, Aphrodite. Inhis conversations as well as in his autobiography he oftenplumed himself on the intercourse which the immortalsheld with him in dreams and omens. He had more rightthan most men to be proud of his achievements; he wasnot so, but he was proud of his uniquely faithful fortune.He was wont to say that every improvised enterprise turnedout better with him than those which were systematicallyplanned; and one of his strangest whims—that of regularlystating the number of those who had fallen on his side in battleas nil—was nothing but the childishness of a child of fortune.It was but the utterance of his natural disposition, when,having reached the culminating point of his career andseeing all his contemporaries at a dizzy depth beneath him,he assumed the designation of the Fortunate—Sulla Felix—as a formal surname, and bestowed corresponding appel­lations on his children.