OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 79 When he had seen this dream, he called the magicians togetheragain, and inquired of them about it, and desired them to tellhim what it signified;. but when none of them could find out themeaning of the dream, nor discover it to the king, Daniel wasthe only person that explained it: and as he foretold so it cameto pass; for after he had continued in the wilderness the fore-mentioned interval of time, while no one durst attempt to seizehis kingdom during those seven years, he prayed to God that hemight recover his kingdom, and he returned to it. But let noone blame me for writing down every thing of this nature, asI find it in our ancient books; for as to that matter, J haveplainly assured those that think me defective in any suchpoint, or complain of my management, and have told them inthe beginning of this history, that I intended to do no morethan translate the Hebrew books into the Greek language, andpromised them to explain those facts, without adding any thingto them of my own, or taking any thing away from them. : ';>;-r/i!"-ii.•t f. i''' - -i'' CHAP. XI . :S»rlj' '• - > mcerning Nebuchadnezzar and his successors: and kffw theirgovernment was dissolved by the Persians; and what thingsbefell Daniel in Media, and what prophecies he delivered there. J 1. JN ow when king Nebuchadnezzar had reigned * forty-three years, he ended his life. He was an active man, and morefortunate than the kings that were before him. Now Berosusmakes mention of his actions in the third book of his Chaldaichistory, where he says thus: "When his father Nebuchodonosor"[Nabopollassar] heard that the governor whom he had set"over Egypt, and the places about Celoesyria and Phenicia, had"revolted from him, while he was not himself able any longer to"undergo the hardships [of war], he committed to his son Ne-"buchadnezzar, who was still but a youth, some parts of his"army, and sent them against them. So when Ncbuchadnez-"zar had given battle, and fought with the rebel, he beat him,"and reduced the country from under his subjection, and made able, both in sacred and profane authors, that such vacuity of eight years at theleast, at the latter end of his reign, must be allowed to agree very well with Daniel'saccounts, that after a seven years' brutal life, he might return to his reason, and tothe exercise of bio royal authority, for one whole year at least before his death. * These 45 years for the duration of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar are, as I havejust now observed, the very same number in Ptolemy's canon. Moses Chorenensisdoes also confirm this captivity of the Jews under Nebuchadnezzar, and adds, whatis very remarkable, that one ofthoae Jews that were carried by him into captivity gotaway into Armenia, and raised the great family of the Bagraditx there.