OCR Output 422 [BOOK XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When this decree was read to the king, thatfirst contained the rest that is here inserted,and omitted only those Jews that had former­ly been brought, and those brought after­wards: which had not been distinctly men­tioned: so he added these clauses out of hishumanity, and with great generosity. He alsogave order that the payment, which was like­ly to be made in a hurry, should be dividedamong the king's ministers, and among theofficers of his treasury. When this was over,what the king had decreed was brought to aconclusion in seven days' time: the numberof the talents paid for the captives beingabove four hundred and sixty: and this, be­cause their masters required the hundredand twenty drachmae for the children also:the king having, in effect, commanded, thatthese should be paid for, when he said inhis decree, that they should receive theaforementioned sum for every slave. When this had been done after so magnifi­cent a manner according to the king's incli­nation, he gave order to Demetrius to givehim in writing his sentiments concerning thetranscribing of the Jewish books. For nopart of the administration is done rashly bythese kings; but all things are managed with'great circumspection. On which account Ihave subjoined a copy of these epistles, andset down the multitude of the vessels sent asgifts, to Jerusalem: and the construction ofevery one; that the exactness of the artifi­cer's workmanship, as it appeared to thosethat saw them, and which workman madeevery vessel, may be made manifest: and thison account of the excellency of the vesselsthemselves. Now the copy of the epistle wasto this purpose: "DEMETRIUS TO THE GREAT KING. "When thou, O king, gavest me a chargeconcerning the collection of books that werewanting to fill your library: and concerningthe care that ought to be taken about such asare imperfect; I have used the utmost dili­gence about these matters. And I let youknow, that we want the books of the Jewishlegislation, with some others. For they are and being in written in Hebrew characters: 1 * We have a very great encomium of this Simon theJust, the son of Gnias I. in the fiftieth chapter of Eccle- the language of that nation are to us unknown.It hath also happened to them, that they havebeen transcribed more carelessly than theyought to have been; because they have nothad hitherto royal care taken about them.Now it is necessary that thou shouldst haveaccurate copies of them. And indeed thislegislation is full of hidden wisdom, and en­tirely blameless; as being the legislation ofGod. For which cause it is, as Hecateusof Abdora says, that the poets and historiansmake no mention of it, nor of those men wholead their lives according to it: since it isa holy law, and ought not to be publishedby profane mouths. If then it please thee,O king, thou mayest write to the high-priestof the Jews, to send six of the elders out ofevery tribe; and those such as are most skil­ful in the laws: that by their means we maylearn the clear and agreeing sense of thesebooks, and may obtain an accurate inter­pretation of their contents: and so may havesuch a collection of these as may be suitableto thy desire." When this epistle was sent to the king, hecommanded that an epistle should be drawnup for Eleazar the Jewish high-priest, con­cerning these matters: and that they shouldinform him of the release of the Jews thathad been in slavery among them. He alsosent fifty talents of gold for the making oflarge basons, and vials, and cups; and animmense quantity of precious stones. Healso gave order to those who had the custo­dy of the chests that contained those stones,to give the artificers leave to choose out whatsorts of them they pleased: at the same timeappointing that a hundred talents in moneyshould be sent to the temple, for sacrifices,and for other uses. Now I will give a de­scription of these vessels, and the manner oftheir construction; but not till after I haveset down a copy of the epistle which waswritten to Eleazar, the high-priest; who hadobtained that dignity on the following occa­sion. When Onias, the high-priest, was dead,his son Simon became his successor. Hewas called * Simon the Just; because of bothhis piety towards God, and his kind disposi­tion to those of his own nation. When he siasticus, through the whole chapter. Nor is it improperto consult that chapter itself upon this occasion.