OCR Output MITYI.ENE. 363 MOABITAE ud pave it to a Galatian prince Bogodiatarns, orBragitarus, as he is called on coins. (Strah. xii. p.56;;S*stini, p. 129.) '[L. S.] MITYLE'NE. [Mttilesb.] MITYS, a river of Pieria in Macedonia, whichthe Koman army, in the third campaign againstPerseus, under Q. Marcius. reached on the first dayafter their occupation of Dium. (Liv. xliv. 7.)Tiie Mitys was perhaps the river of Katerina.(Leake, North. Greece, vol. iii. p. 424.) [E. B. J.] M1ZAGUS. [Mnizi-s.] MIZPAH v. MIZPEH (Mumprf). This Hebrewappellative (r. Hrpy), signifying "a commandingheight," "a beacon." "watehtower," and the like(tuervrrtvifttvov tovto crjfjialvei Kara rijv 'EGuaiwv7A«ttoi', Joseph. -4nt. vi. 2. § 1), is used as theproper name of several sites or towns in Palestine,doubtless from their positions. 1. The most important was Mizpah (oncewritten Mizpeh, Josh, xviii. 26), in the tribe of Ben­jamin, where a convocation of the tribes of Israelwas hell on important occasions, dnring the timesof the Judges, and was one of the stations inSamuels annual circuit. (Judges,xx. 1, 3, xxi. 1;1 Sam. vii. 5—17, x. 17, &c.) It was strengthenedby Asa, king of Judah, as a frontier garrison againstIsrael, and he used for his works the materialsbrought from the neighbouring Ramah, whichBi&sha, king of Israel, had built on his southernfrontier, " that he might not suffer any to go out orto come in to Asa. king of Judah." (1 Kings, xv.17—22; comp. 2 Chron. xvi. 6.) After the de-itruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar it be­came, for a short time, the seat of the government,«nd there it was that Gedaliah and his officers werebarbarously murdered by Ishmael and his company.(2 Kmgr, xxv. 22—25; Jeremiah, xl. xli.) It isclear from this narrative that it was situated on thehighroad between Samaria and Jerusalem (xli.5.6); and it is evident from the narrative in Judgesthat it could not be far distant from Gibeah ofBenjamin, as the head quarters of the Israelites*erc at Mizpah while they were besieging Gibeah.It was restored and inhabited soon after the cap­tivity (Xehem. ii. 7, 15), and is mentioned in theb»k of Maccabees as situated over against Jeru­salem (Maff<rr/£a Karivami 'lepowra\fo\ and ashariog been formerly an oratory of Israel; and thereit was that Judas Maccabaeus and his brotherstruuOTrated their great work with fasting andfarer. (1 ifaccab. iii. 46.) It is frequently men­tions! by Josephus in his narrative of the Scripturehistory, but his orthography is far from uniform.Martini (vi 2. § 1), Mcur^ofla (vi. 4. § 4, x. 9.H *. 4, 5), Mtur-pd (viii. 13. § 4). In the lastrtoi passage he informs us that Mizpah was in the«roe pl«e as Ranathon (or Ramah), which hepkces 40 stadia from Jerusalem (§ 3). Eusebius•rsl !>:. Jerome most unaccountably confound thisMopah with the Mizpah of Gilead (infra, No. 3).They place it near Kirjathjearim. ( OnomasL s. v.Iwitfti) Its site has not been satisfactorilyKW.liftea'. Dr. Robinson thinks that either Tell-el-M (Bean-bill), lying about an hour south of Er-*» (Ramah) towards Jerusalem, or Ntby Samwil,•T**bat further distant from Er-R&m, to the west^ the former site, would correspond to the site ofMiiiah. He inclines strongly to the latter site(£"'■ Res. toL it p. 144); which, however, seemst" h» t/o far removed from the highroad betweenJcnoalem and Samaria, on which Mizpah was cer- tainly situated. Possibly the modem village ofShaphat, identical in meaning with Mizpah, situatedon that road, near to Tell-el-Ful, may mark thisancient site; or another site, between this and Er~Ram, on the east of the road, still called 'Ain Nus-peh, may mark the spot. It is worthy of remarkthat the high ground to the north of Jerusalem iscalled by a name of kindred signification with Miz­pah, and doubtless derived its name Sitoirds fromthat town. It is on this ridge that Shaphat lies. 2. Mizpeh (LXX., Morripri) is mentioned amongthe cities of Judah (Josh. xv. 38); and this mustbe either the one which Eusebius mentions as stillexisting under the same name, in the borders ofEleutheropolis to the north, or the other in the tribeof Judah, on the way to Aelia. The former of theseis probably Tell-es-Sa/ieh, the Alba Specula of themiddle ages; the latter may be Beit-Safa, a littleto the south of Jerusalem, between that city andBethlehem. 3. Mizpah, in Mount Gilead, probably identicalwith Ramath-Mizpeh in Gad (Josh. xiii. 26), de­rived its name from the incident mentioned in Ge~nesis, xxxi. 44—55, and was apparently the site ofthe rough monument of unhewn stones called byLnban in Chaldce, " Yegar-sahadutha," and by Ja­cob in Hebrew, "Galeed," both signifying "theheap of witness." The site was called "Mizpah;for, he said, The Lord watch between me and thee,when we are absent one fiom the other." This isdoubtless the Mizpah of Jephtha tire Gileadite,which seems to have had somewhat of a sacredcharacter, and to have served for the national con­ventions of the trans-Jordanic tribes, as its name­sake in Benjamin did in Palestine Proper. (Judges,x. 17, xi. 11, 34.) Eusebius notices it as a Lcviticalcity in the tribe of Gad. (Onomast. s. v. Matnpo.) 4. A fourth Mizpeh is named in Josh. xi. 3,more to the north of Peraea, where we read of " theHivite under Hermon, in the land of Mizpeh;" andpresently afterwards of " the valley of Mizpeh east­ward" (vcr. 8), which cannot be identical with theGileadite Mizpeh, but must have been at the south­ern base of Mount Hermon. 5. Mizpeh of Moab is mentioned (in 1 Sam.xxii. 3) in a manner which seems to intimate thatit was the capital of that country in the time ofDavid, as it was certainly the residence of its king.(Euseb. Onom. s. v. Mao-oTjfpti.) [G. W.] MNI/.US, orMINIZUS, a small town in Galatia,between Lagania and Ancyra, where the Eni]ierorAnastasius must have resided for some time, asseveral of his constitutions are dated from that place,both in the Codex Theodosiantrs and the CodexJustiniancus. (ftin. i/rrroj. p.575 j ft Ant. p. 142;Notit. Episc, where it is called MiTJfos; Hierocl.p. 697, where it bears the name 'PfyeVfi"0': Tab.Pent, calls it Mizagus; Cod. Tlicod. tk his qui adEceles. i. 3; de. Epist. i. 33; de J'oen. i 16.)Mniztis was the see of a bishop, as we know fromseveral councils at which its bishops are mentioned.Kiepert identifies the place with the modernAjas. [L. S.] MOAB (Muds), vallis, regio, campesiria, &c[Moabitae.] The notice of Eusebius may be hereintroduced (OmmiasL s. v. MudS):—"A city ofArabia, now called Areopolis. The country also iscalled Moab, but the city Kabbath Moab." [AitE-opous.] [G. W.] MOABITAE (Maagirai: the country Moot?-tis), the people descended from Moab, the sou of