OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 347 scure sentence of his Koran, or book, is yet extant;(l) and, in the pride of his mis­sion, Moseilama condescended to offer a partition of the earth. The proposal wasanswered by Mahomet with contempt: but the rapid progress of the impostorawakened the fears of his successor; forty thousand Moslems were assembled un­der the standard of Caled; and the existence of their faith was resigned to theevent of a decisive battle. In the first action, they were repulsed with the loss oftwelve hundred men; but the skill and perseverance of their general prevailed;their defeat was avenged by the slaughter of ten thousand infidels; and Moseilamahimself was pierced by an Ethiopian slave with the same javelin which had mor­tally wounded the uncle of Mahomet. The various rebels of Arabia, without achief or cause, were speedily suppressed by the power and discipline of the risingmonarchy; and the whole nation again professed, and more steadfastly held, thereligion of the Koran. The ambition of the caliphs provided an immediate exer­cise for the restless spirit of the Saracens; their valour was united in the prosecu­tion of a holy war; and their enthusiasm was equally confirmed by opposition andvictory. From the rapid conquests of the Saracens a presumption will naturally arise,that the first caliphs commanded in person the armies of the faithful, and soughtthe crown of martyrdom in the foremost ranks of the battle. The courage ofAbubeker,(2) Omar,(3) and Othman,(4) had indeed been tried in the persecutionand wars ot the prophet, and the personal assurance of paradise must have taughtthem to despise the pleasures and dangers of the present world. But they as­cended the throne in a venerable or mature age, and esteemed the domestic caresof religion and justice the most important duties of a sovereign. Except the pre­sence of Omar at the siege of Jerusalem, the longest expeditions were the fre­quent pilgrimage from Medina to Mecca; and they calmly received the tidings ofvictory as they prayed or preached before the sepulchre of the prophet. Theaustere and frugal measure of their lives was the effect of virtue or habit, and thepride of their simplicity insulted the vain magnificence of the kings of the earth.When Abubeker assumed the office of caliph, he enjoined his daughter Ayesha totake a strict account of his private patrimony, that it might be evident whetherhe were enriched or impoverished by the service of the state. He thought him­self entitled to a stipend of three pieces of gold, with the sufficient maintenanceof a single camel and a black slave; but on the Friday of each week, he distri­buted the residue of his own and the public money, first to the most worthy, andthen to the most indigent, of the Moslems. The remains of his wealth, a coarsegarment, and five pieces of gold, were delivered to his successor, who lamentedwith a modest sigh his own inability to equal such an admirable model. Yet theabstinence and humanity of Omar were not inferior to the virtues of Abubeker:his food consisted of barley-bread or dates; his drink was water; he preached in agown that was torn or tattered in twelve places; and a Persian satrap who paidhis homage to the conqueror, found him asleep among the beggars on the steps ofthe mosch of Medina. Economy is the source of liberality, and the increase ofthe revenue enabled Omar to establish a just and perpetual reward for the pastand present services of the faithful. Careless of his own emolument, he assignedto Abbas, the uncle of the prophet, the first and most ample allowance of twenty-five thousand drachms or pieces of silver. Five thousand were allotted to eachof the aged warriors, the relics of the field of Beder, and the last and meanest ofthe companions of Mahomet was distinguished by the annual reVard of threethousand pieces. One thousand was the stipend of the veterans who had foughtin the first battles against the Greeks and Persians, and the decreasing pay, as lowas fifty pieces of silver, was adapted to the respective merit and seniority of thesoldiers of Omar. Under his reign, and that of his predecessor, the conquerorsof the east were the trusty servants of God and the people: the mass of the pub­lic treasure was consecrated to the expenses of peace and war; a prudent mixtureof justice and bounty, maintained the discipline of the Saracens, and they united,by a rare felicity, the despatch and execution of despotism, with the equal and (1) See this text, which demonstrate! a cod from the work of generation, in Abulpharagius, (Specimen HiscArabum. p. 13. and Dynast, p. 103.; and Abulfeda. Annal. p. 63.) (2) His reign in Eutyehius, torn. ii. p. 251. Elmacin, p. 18. Abiilphaiagiui, p. 108. Abulffda, p. 60.D'Herbelot, p. 58. (3) His reign in Eutyehius, p. 264. Elmacin, p. 24. Abulpharagius, p. 110. Abulftda, p. 66. D'Herbelot,p. 686. (4) His reign in Eutyehius, p. 323. Elciacip.p. 36. Abulpharagius, p. 115. Abulfeda, p. 75. D'Herbelot,