OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. parts of the earth In which the oracles were given then becametoo impure to receive the prophetic inspiration. For, as wehave observed in a former note, there must be a concurrence ofproper instruments, times, and places, in order to receive divine in­fluence in a proper manner; so that when all or any of these arewanting, this influence will either be not at all received, or will bereceived mingled with the delusions of error. But let the l eaderwho desires popular conviction of this important fact, that therewas no collusion in general in the ancient oraclce, peruse the firstbook of Cicero De Divinationc \ and unless his intellectual eye isdreadfully Winded by the darkness of perseS at'hcism, which hasnow spread itself among all ranks of men, he must be at least con­vinced that they were not produced by the knavery of priests.That the priests indeed were sometimes corrupted, the passagebefore us of Pausanias, and many other instances which mightbe adduced, sufficiently prove; but this does not in the least in­validate the existence of divine influence, or the reality of ora­cular prediction; because the best thing3 always have been andalways will be perverted, through the weakness and viciousnessof the bulk of mankind. Page 281. Tie Archon EpcnymusS] Sylburgius observes heie,that governors of this kind were called Archons, because theyannually possessed the supreme authority: but that they werecalled Eponymi, because the years in the fasti and annals were in­scribed aster their names; just as among the Romans the yearswere not only numbered from the time in which their city wasbuilt, but were rendered remarkable by the names of their con­suls. Page 290. Jupiter Euanemus.~\ That is, Jupiter the cause osprosperous winds. Page 291. Neptune Hippoeurius.~\ Pindar, in his Isthmian andNemæan odes, (hews that a festival wastelebrated by the Thebaciin honour of Neptune Hippocurius. Page 291. Britomariis.2 This word is a compound of theVot. III. X Creta*