OCR Output 374 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. rate statesmanly spirit, which made its author well worthy,like the old decemvirs, to step forward between the partiesas sovereign mediator with his code of law.Police laws. We may regard as an appendix to these criminal laws thepolice ordinances, by which Sulla, putting the law in roomof the censor, again enforced good discipline and strictmanners, and, by establishing new maximum rates instead ofthe old ones which had long been antiquated, attempted torestrain luxury at banquets, funerals, and otherwise.The Roman Lastly, the development of an independent Roman muni-muiiicipal cipai system was the work, if not of Sulla, at any rate of thei,ys cm. Sullaii epoch. The idea of organically incorporating thecommunity as a subordinate political unit in the higherunity of the state was originally foreign to antiquity; cityand state were throughout the Helleno-Italic worldnecessarily coincident, and it was otherwise only underOriental despotism. In so far there was no proper muni­cipal system originally either in Greece or in Italy. TheRoman policy, in particular, adhered to this view with itspeculiar tenacious consistency; still in the sixth century thedependent communities of Italy were either, in order to theirkeeping their municipal constitution, constituted as formallysovereign states of non-burgesses, or, if they obtained theRoman franchise, were—although not prevented from organ­izing themselves as commonwealths—deprived of strictlymunicipal rights, so that in all burgess-colonies and burgess-municipia even the administration of justice and the chargeof buildings devolved on the Roman praetors and censors.The utmost to which Rome consented was to allow at least themost urgent law-suits to be settled on the spot by a deputy(proefectus) of the prator nominated from Rome (i. 434). Theprovinces were similarly dealt with, except that the governorthere came in place of the authorities of the capital. In thefree, that is, formally sovereign cities the civil and criminaljurisdiction was administered by the municipal magistratesaccording to the local statutes; only, unless altogether spe­cial privileges stood in the way, every Roman might eitheras defendant or as plaintiff request to have his cause de­cided before Italian judges according to Italian law. Forthe ordinary provincial communities the Roman governor wasthe only regular judicial authority, ou whom devolved the su­perintendence of all processes. It was a great matter when,as in Sicily, in the event of the defendant being a Sicilian,