OCR Output Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 313 ten in breadth, and some still larger. But when the haven wasfilled up to that depth, he enlarged that wall which was thus al­ready extant above the sea, till it was two hundred feet wide :one hundred of which had buildings before it, in order to breakthe force of the waves, whence it was called Procumasia, or thefirst breaker of the waves; but the rest of the space was undera stone wall that ran round it. On this wall were very largetowers, the principal and most beautiful of which was calledDrusium, from Drusus, who was son-in-law to Caesar. 7. There was also a great number of arches, where the mari­ners dwelt; and all the places before them round about was alarge valley, or walk, for a key for landing place] to those thatcame on shore; but the entrance was en the north, because thenorth wind was there the most gentle of all the winds. At themouth of the haven were on each side three great Colossi, sup­ported by pillars, where thoseCollossi that arejonyour left handas you sail into the port, are supported by a solid tower, butthose on the right hand are supported by two upright stonesjoined together, which stones were larger than that tower whichwas on the ether side of the entrance. Now there were con­tinual edifices joined to the haven, which were also themselvesof white stone; and to this haven did the narrow streets of thecity lead, and were built at equal distances one from anotheq.And over against the mouth of the haven, upon an elevation,there was a temple for Caesar, which was excellent both in beau­ty and largeness; and therein was a Colossus of Caesar, not lessthan that of Jupiter Olympius, which it was made to resemble.The other Colossus of Rome was equal to that of Juno at Argos.So he dedicated the city to the province, and the haven to thesailors there; but the honour of the building he ascribed to *Caesar, and named it Cesarea accordingly. 8. He also built the other edifices, the amphitheatre, and thea­tre, and market place, in a manner agreeable to that denomina­tion; and appointed games every fifth year, and called them inlike manner, Cedar's Games, and he first himself proposed thelargestprizes upon the hundred ninty-secondOlympiad; in whichnot only the victors themselves, but those thatcamenext to them,and even those that came in the third place, were partakers ofhis royal bounty. He also rebuilt Anthedon, a city that lay onthe coast, and had been demolished in the wars, and named it Agrippeum. « These building« of cities by the name of Cssar/ and institution of solemngame* in honour of Augustus Cassar, as here, and in the antiquities, related of Herrod by Josephus, the Roman historians atteit to' as things then frequent in theprovinces of that empire, as Dean Aldrich observes on this chapter.VOL. III. R r