OCR Output OF ROME. tle time the latter were put to a ftand and diforder- "BOOK.ed j but foon forming two fronts, they faced the ene- ._-t-_'^fmy on both fides; and, at the fame time, the cavalry, Y.R. 1?$.being ordered by the conful to charge, routed andB.C"*73'difperfed the Etrurians. Thus were overcome in thefame hour, two armies of the two greateft, and molj:powerful, of the neighbouring ftates. During thefetranfactions at Veil, the Volfcians and .ffiquans ha4encamped in the Latine territories, and laid waftethe country. The Latines themfelves, being joinedby the Hernicians, without the aid either of Rorna^general, or troops, beat them out of their camp,and there, befides recovering their own effects, .gof•pofieflion of immenfe booty. The conful CaiusNautius was, however, fent againft the Volfciansfrom Rome, where, I fuppofe, it was confidered asimproper, that the allies mould get a cuftom of car­rying on wars, with their own forces, and under theirown direction, without a Roman general and troops.There is no kind of feverity or indignity which wasnot practifed on the Volfcians, yet they could not beforced to come to an engagement in the field. . LIV. THE next confuls were Lucius Furius and Y.R. 1?o.Aulus Manlius. The Veientians fell to the lot of2.C'4?1'Manlius as his province; but the war there did notcontinue. At their requeft a truce for forty yearswas granted them, and they were obliged to furniflicorn, and to pay the foldiers. No fooner was peacereftored abroad, than difcord immediately began at thome. The commons were fet in a flame by theinftigations of the tribunes, on their conftant fubjecV,the agrarian law, which the confuls, not deterred bythe condemnation of Menenius, or the danger incur­red by Servilius, oppofed with all their might. Onthis account, as foon as they went out of office, Ti­tus Genucius, tribune of the commons, laid hold ofthem. They were fucceeded in the confulmip by Y.R. iiuLucius ^Emilius and Opiter Virginius. In fome'B'c.471«o 4 annals.