OCR Output A. D. 19.] 135 OF TACITUS. sixth legion deserted to him with his standard. Sen-tius resolved to carry the place by assault. The sig­nal for the charge was given; scaling ladders wereadvanced to the walls; the foremost in courage beganto mount to the top of the work; while an incessantvolley of darts, and stones, and flaming brands, waspoured in upon the garrison. Piso desired to capitu­late. He offered to lay down his arms, upon condi­tion that he should remain in the castle till the em­peror's pleasure touching the government of the pro­vince should be finally declared. The propositionwas rejected. Sentius allowed him safe conduct toItaly, and shipping for his passage: no other termswere granted. LXXXII. The indisposition of Germanicus wasknown at Rome some time before his death. Thenews, like all distant intelligence, increased everymoment, and bad was made worse by exaggeration.Grief and loud complaints filled every quarter of thecity. " Was it for this, that Germanicus was sent to" distant regions ? For this, was the province of Sy-" ria assigned to Piso ? This is the consequence of"private interviews between Livia and Plancina!" When Drusus, the father of Germanicus, died, it" was observed by men of reflection, and observed" with truth, that if the son of a despotic prince is the" friend of civil liberty, his father never forgives his" virtues. It was for this that Drusus and Gormani-" cus were snatched away from the Roman people." They intended to restore the old constitution, and" they perished in the cause." Such were the senti­ments that prevailed at Rome. The fatal news atlength arrived. In that moment the passions of menknew no bounds. Without waiting for an edict ofthe magistrates, or a decree of the senate, a cessationof all business took place; the courts of justice weredeserted ; houses were shut up; shrieks and' groansburst out, and at intervals a deep and awful silencefollowed. A general mourning covered the face of the city.The exterior forms of grief were observed, but the an­guish of the heart surpassed all outward show. It