OCR Output an. 1056.] 269 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to such as were under any calamities; hewas also righteous and humane; which aregood qualities peculiarly fit for kings; norwas he guilty of any offence in the exerciseof so great an authority, but in the businessof the wife of Uriah. He also left behind himgreater wealth than any other king either ofthe Hebrews, or of other nations ever did. He was buried by his son Solomon, in Je­rusalem, with great magnificence,* and withall the other funeral pomp which kings usedto be buried with; moreover he had immensewealth buried with him;f the vastness ofwhich may be easily conjectured by what Ishall now say; Jfor a thousand and three hundred years afterwards, Hyrcanus the high-priest, when he was besieged by Antiochus,that was called the Pious, the son of Deme­trius, and was desirous of giving him money,to get him to raise the siege, and draw offhisarmy, and having no other method of raisingthe money, opened one room of David's se­pulchre, and took out three thousand talents;and gave part of that sum to Antiochus; andby this means caused the siege to be raised.Nay, many years afterward, Herod the kingopened another room and took away a greatdeal of money; and yet neither of them cameat the coffins of the kings themselves; fortheir bodies were buried under the earth so * 1 Kings ii. 10. 1 Chron. xxix. 26—30. t Among several nations indeed it was customary tobury, along with the princes and other great men, variousthings of value, that they took delight in while they lived.The Egyptians were used to this; and about their mum­mies are frequently found very precious ornaments.When Alexander the Great had Cyrus's tomb opened,there was found therein a bed of gold, a very rich table,drinking cups, and many fine vestments: but, notwith­standing all this, several learned men look upon thiswhole account of Josephus as a mere fable. For to whatpurpose, say they, did Solomon bury all this treasureunder ground, when he had so much occasion for it, whenhe was forced to borrow money of the king of Tyre, andburthen his people with so many heavy taxes to supplyhis excessive expenses? How came it, that the otherkings of Judah, who were frequently put to the necessityof stripping the temple of its precious furniture to satisfytheir greedy enemies, never once adventured to lay holdon this treasure? How came it to escape the hands ofthe Chaldeans, and other nations, that so often had theplundering of Jerusalem? Or why should Hyrcanus vio­late this depositum, which his predecessors esteemed moresacred than the holy vessels of the Lord? These arequestions that cannot easily be resolved; and, what is afarther confutation of this story, in that very book, fromwhence Josephus is supposed to have taken it, it is neveronce said, that Hyrcanus broke open David's tomb. Thewords of that spurious author are that " Hyrcanus, whilehe was besieged by Antiochus, opened a treasure-chamberwhich belonged to some of David's descendants, and that,after he had taken a large sum of money out of it, he stillleft a great deal in it, and sealed it up again:" but thisis quite a different thing, and has no manner of relation tothe sepulchre of David. As to the real sepulchre ofDavid, it is certain, that it was always held in great vene­ration among the Jews. It was in being in St. Peter'stime,' for so he tells the people, Acts ii. 29. Dio (inAdriani vita) informs us, that part of it was fallen downin the emperor Adrian's reign. St. Jerom relates, thathe himself used frequently to go and pray at it; andmodern travellers, as we took notice before, describesome magnificent monuments hewed in a rock, not farfrom Jerusalem, which are doubtless very ancient; but they themselves do not agree, that they were the sepul­chres of the kings of Judah. It was somewhat unaccount­able, however, that the place of this prince's sepulchre,which both the Chaldeans and the Romans, when theytook Jerusalem, thought proper to spare, should now beso entirely lost that we cannot find the least remains of it.But though Providence has so ordered it, that the placeof David's sepulchre should not at present be known, yetthere does not want an eternal monument of his most ex­cellent genius. The Book of Psalms, which for themost part was composed by him, does publish the glory ofits author more than the most pompous eulogies; and theauthor of Ecclesiasticus, chap, xlvii. 2. &c. has conse­crated an epitaph to his memory, which is more durablethan either marble or brass:—As the fat is taken awayfrom the peace-offering, so was David chosen out of thepeople of Israel. He played with lions as with kids, andwith bears as with lambs; he slew a giant when he wasyoung, and took away reproach from the people; for hecalled upon the most high Lord, and he gave strength tohis right hand to slay this mighty warrior, and to set upthe horn of his people. So the people honoured himwith ten thousands, and praised him in blessings of theLord; for he destroyed the enemies on every side, andbrought to nought the Philistines his adversaries :—In allhis works he praised the Holy One most high, and blessedthe Lord with words of glory :—He set singers also beforethe altar, that by their voices they might make sweetmelody, and daily sing praises in their songs. He beau­tified their feasts, and set their solemn times in perfectorder:—The Lord took away his sons, and exalted hishorn for ever; he gave him a covenant of kings, and athrone of glory in Israel. Calmefs Commentary, and hisDictionary, under the word David. B. J Instead of 1300 years, we are here, by Josephus'sown chronology, to read 980, or, at most, in a round andlarge number, 1000 years. But as to some supposals asif the burial of such riches in or near to David's sepulchrewere a thing incredible, I cannot but wonder at great men,when they oppose some vain conjectures against the mostauthentic evidence we have for these histories; andthat from the best contemporary authors. See XIII. 8.XVI. 7. Of the War, 1, 2. and Authentic Records, partI. page 207. 3D2