OCR Output . 28. ROMAN HISTORY. 443 annihilation with theVejeotes, to an accommodation withtbe Capenatesi were unanimously determined to sue forpeace. Nothing was talked of in the forum, or senate-house, but the virtue of the Romans, and the probity oftheir general; and accordingly, with one consent, am*bassadors were dispatched to the camp to Camillus, andby his permissioni to the senate at Rome, to surrenderFalerii. When they had leave of audience, it is said, they ad­dressed the senate in the following terms: Illustrious'fathers, conquered by you, and your general, in a * manner that can give no offence to gods, nor men, we'are-come to surrender ourselves to you, convinced that * we shall live more happy under your government, than'under our own laws, a circumstance that reflects a pe-'culiar honour on the conqueror. The event of this * war furnishes mankind with two excellent examples^ * You, fathers, have preferred justice in war, to imme- * diate conquest: and we,'excited by that justice, do vo-'luntarily present you the victory. We are now en-'tirelv yours. Send commissioners to receive our arms,'our hostages, our city, the gates of which stand open'to you: You will have no reason to complain of our'fidelity, nor we to regret our present submission.' Ca-millus luul both the thanks of the enemy and of hiscountry. To exempt the people from taxes, a year'spay to tte army was exacted from the Falisci; and peacebeing granted them on these terms, the army returnedhome. CHAP. XXVIII. War with the jEqui: various successes. JL HE applauses now given to Camillus upon his re­turn to Rome, and the conquest he had made over the. epemy by his justice and integrity, were far more sin­cere, than those lie had formerly received, when .thewhite horses drew his triumphal chariot through thecity. The senate made honourable mention of his mo*desty, and in order to.discharge his vow with all possibledispatch, L. Valerius, L. Sergius, and A. Manlius, weredeputed to carry a golden cup to Delphos, as a present