OCR Output OSTIA. 503 OSTIA. ft Tie, whkh to* assumed the name of Fossauau,ut is undoubtedly the same which still•lau ladtr lie same of Fiumicino, and forma the/:! arra 0/ tin Tiber, from which it separatescmi 1 six tod a half above the site of Ostia. [ti or* port thus constructed soon gave rise toii prtb if 1 WW town around it, whicli wasrmllT luorn by the name of PoRTf8 Ostiknsis,nxtan alto Portus Urbis or Portus Romae, butm (mfwntlt, at least in later times, simplyroxtn. It seems to have been designed more por-L-iiri; far the importation of corn for the supplyil i» capital, an object of which the importancelanvsa kk more and more, as the population ofIa< aauaaed to increase, while it became moreaWatriy dependent upon foreign produce. The*?ant cutrict on the right bank of the Tiber■» warned cot among a body of colouists beforefciaatof Trajsn (IJi.C ■ p. 222); and a newk / rad fu constructed along tlie right bank ofla Tiber from Borne to the Dew port, whicl) ob-fcifcd lie name./ Via Portuensis. In the reign of(With* the cily of Portns was erected into an<r"H>i nt (Anaatas. Vit. Sileatr. 34); and theto ijiperor surrounded it with strong walls and<i« are still in considerable part extant.Manvbue Ostia itself was far from sinking intor*' aVpated notiies of it during the earherfa <f the Buman Empire show it to hare been■ ■ iauuaiag and populous city, and successiveywimeeorred in improving it and adorning it• jUiit boiahnga. It was particularly indebtedjtis o»of Hadrian (Gruter, Inter, p. 249. 7)U itftmum Sevrroa, numerous inscriptions inMr of wbom have been discovered among its^ (Kiev, Dimtormi, toI. B. pp. 434, 468.)•*na. aar\ are are told, adorned it with a Forum,P* tore baa name, and which was decorated byI Wan Tacitus with 100 columns of Kumidic»* (Vopjte. Amrtl. 45; Tac 10.) The exist-j'Baoa confirm the inference which we should► rnaa theae accounts, and show that Ostia mustto be a flourishing town till towardsof tiie Roman Empire, and fur superior inand apkndour of its public buildings to^l^oanajr ttfwn of Portus. But the securitylatter place, which was well fortified, while*» *bUly unprotected by walls (Procop.MX n.u.-t have cuntrihuted greatly to thew* Porttu; and the artificial port seems toffied an increasing preference over theaath uf the Tiber. Kutilius says that in(ahatt •. d. 414) the left ami, or main<f the river, was so obstructed with sand asdeserted (/(nt. L 181); but this would"»k exaggerated statement, as Procopius1 a oratury later describes them as both(Procop. Le.y. Ostia was, however, in*hnay in a state of great decay, and the«* lad man theace to Rome (the Via Os-') *af setlected and abandoned, while the Viaa» the other side of the Tiber was still<f aaauderable traffic. The importance ofere developed when Rome itself*tfmd to the attacks of hostile barliarians.Aaaric, king of the Goths, made himselfprfat pvt. and with it of the stores of com■J" of the capital, which compelled theP* "p'slatt on the terms that he chose to(Z—a vi. 6); and again during the warsP*»»t«i Vitigee (in 537) the Gotliic king, by making himself master of Portus, was able toreduce his adversary to severe distress (Procop.B. G. i. 26, &c.). The decline of Ostia continuedthroughout the earlier part of the middle ages; in827 it is described as altogether in ruins, and thecontinued incursions of the Saracens throughout thatcentury seem to have completed its desolation. But meanwhile the artificial ports of Claudiusand Trajan were beginning in their turn to sufferfrom the deposit of sand which is constantly goingon along these shores; and no attempt being madein these ages of confusion and disorder to arrest theprogress of the evil, they were both gradually filledup so as to be rendered altogether useless. In the10th century, the port of Trajan was already reducedto a mere lake or pool, altogether cut off from thesea, and only communicating by a ditch with theTiber. (Ughelli, Italia Sacra, vol. i. p. 134.) Theconsequence was that for a tune the trade was againforced to have recourse to the left arm of the river;and the modern Ostia, where a castle or fort hadbeen founded by Pope Gregory IV., a little abovethe ruins of the ancient city, became again for aperiod of some centuries the landing-place of tra­vellers and the port of Rome. It was not till 1612that Pope Paul V. once more caused the canal ofTrajan to be restored and cleared out, and continuedto the present line of sea-coast, where a small portcalled Fiumicino was constructed; and from thistime the whole traffic carried on by the Tiber withRome (which is however but inconsiderable) hasbeen confined to this ami of the river. The maiuchannel, on the other hand, having been completelyneglected, has become so obstructed with sand nearthe mouth as to be wholly impracticable. The modern village of Ottia is a very poor place,with the ruins of an old castle, but retains little morethan 50 permanent inhabitants, who are principallyemployed in the neighbouring salt-works. Its climatein summer is extremely unhealthy. The ruins ofthe ancient city begin about half a mile below il,and extend along the left bank of the Tiber for aspace of near a mile and a half in length, and a milein breadth. Though extensive, they are for the mostpart in a very dilapidated and imperfect state, so asto have little or no interest as architectural monu­ments; but among them may be distinctly tracedthe remains of a theatre, a temple of the Corinthianorder, the forum, with several of the public buildingsthat surrounded it; and near the Torre Boracciana,close to the Tiber, are the ruins of buildings thatappear to indicate this as the site of the actual portor emporium of Ostia in the imperial period. Thegreat number and beauty of the statues and otherworks of art, which have been brought to light bythe excavations carried on ut successive periods onthe site of Ostia, are calculated to give a high notionof the opulence and prosperity of the ancient city. The ruins of Portus, which are also very consi­derable, are of an entirely different character fromthose of Ostia. They are found on the right bankof the Tiber, about 2 miles from the present line ofsea-coast at Fiumicino, and are still known as Porto;while the inner basin of Trajan, the hexagonal formof which may be distinctly traced, though it is ingreat part filled with sand, is still popularly knownby the name of II Trajtmo. The quays of solidmasonry that surrounded it are still well preserved;while extensive, though shapeless, masses of ruinsadjoining it appear to have been those of the inago-attached to the port. TheK K 4