OCR Output 244 ROMAN EMPIRE. visit was a scene of tumult and bloodshed.0 A faintremembrance of their ancestors still tormented theRomans; and they beheld with pious indignation thesuccession of Saxons, Franks, Swabians, and Bohemi­ans, who usurped the purple and prerogatives of theCaesars. There is nothing perhaps more advere to na-domof ture and reason, than to hold in obedience re-A.l5'.774 mote countries and foreign nations, in opposi-—1«50. tion {0 their inclination and interest. A torrentof barbarians may pass over the earth, but an extensiveempire must be supported by a refined system of po­licy and oppression; in the centre, an absolute power,prompt in action, and rich in resources; a swift andeasy communication with the extreme parts: fortifi­cations to check the first effort of rebellion: a regularadministration to protect and punish; and a well dis­ciplined army to inspire fear, without provoking dis­content and despair. Far different was the situationof the German Caesars, who were ambitious to enslavethe kingdom of Italy. Their patrimonial estates werestretched along the Rhine, or scattered in the pro­vinces; but this ample domain was alienated by the im­prudence or distress of successive princes; and theirrevenue, from minute and vexatious prerogative, wasscarcely sufficient for the maintenance of their house­hold. Their troops were formed by the legal or vo­luntary service of their feudal vassals, who passed theAlps with reluctance, assumed the licence of rapineand disorder, and capriciously deserted before the endof the campaign. Whole armies were swept away bythe pestilential influence of the climate: the survivorsbrought back the bones of their princes and nobles/ e In a quarrel at the coronation of Conrad II. Muratori takes leave to observe—doveano ben essere allora, indisciplinati, Barbario, beaiali i Tedeschi. Annal..torn. 8. p. 368. * After boiling away the flesh. The caldrons for that purpose were a necessarypiece of travelling furniture; and a German who was using it for bis brother, pro­mised it to a friend, after it should have been employed for himself. (Schmidt,