OCR Output CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. 277 it, to the Aventine Mount. There, having joined theother army, they gave it in charge to the twenty tribunes,to chuse two of their number to the supreme command.Their choice fell upon M. Oppius and Sex. Manilius. The senators anxious for the commonwealth, sat everyday; but the time which ought to have been employedin concerting prudent measures, was wasted in strife andwrangling. The decemvirs were incessantly reproachedw.ith the murder of-Sicinius, the lust of Appius, and themiscarriages in the war. They resolved, however, tosend Valerius and Horatius to the Mount Aventine; butthey refused to undertake the embassy, till the decem­virs should divest themselves of the ensigns of their au­thority, which they ought to have done twelve monthsago. The decemvirs complained* that they were to bereduced, by force, to the condition of private persons,declaring, they would not lay down their authority, be­fore jhe laws were passed, for enacting which they hadbeen created, which was the only term fixed for the ex­piration of their magistracy. CHAP. LII. The Decemvirs are prevailed on to lay down their authority, \. HE people having got intelligence, by means of M.Duilius, who had been a tribune, that the senate hadcome to no decisive resolution, owing to their constantwranglings, they left the Aventine, and retired to thesacred Mount: Duilius assuring them, that the fatherswould never think seriously of the matter, till they shouldsee the city totally deserted. "But the Mons Sacer will"remind them ol the steady resolution of the commons,"- and convince them, that unless the tribunes be restor-"ed, they will find a re-union impracticable." Marching, therefore, by the Nomantine way, thencalled Ficulensis, they encamped on the sacred Mount,observing the same good discipline, for which their an­cestors had been so much admired. Thither they wereaccompanied by the people, none staying behind, whoseage would permit him to go. Their wives and childrencame after them, asking them mournfully, to whose care N