OCR Output i6 THE DECLINE AND FALL less familiar than that of the sword or pilum; nor is there an •circumstance which more fully demonstrates the excellence of theRoman discipline. Active valour may often be the present of na­ture; but patient diligence can be the fruit only of reflection andhabit * March. Whenever the trumpet gave the signal of departure, the camp was almost instantly broke up, and the troops fell into their rankswithout delay or confusion. Besides their arms, which the legion­aries scarcely considered as an encumbrance, they were laden withtheir kitchen furniture, the instruments of fortification, and theprovision of many days *\ Under this weight, which would oppressthe delicacy of a modern soldier, they were trained by a regularstep to advance, in about six hours, near twenty miles 6\ On theappearance of an enemy, they threw aside their baggage, and by easyand rapid evolutions, converted the column of march into an order ofbattle6*. The {lingers and archers skirmished in the front; theauxiliaries formed the first line, and were seconded or sustained bythe strength of the legions. The cavalry covered the flanks, andthe military engines were placed in the rear.Nambfrand Such were the arts of war, by which the Roman emperors de-disposition of fen(ieci their extensive conquests, and preserved a military spirit, at the legions. * '4 a time when every other virtue was almost extinguished by theprogress of despotism. Tf, in the consideration of their armies, wepass from their discipline to their numbers, we shall not find iteasy to appreciate them with any tolerable accuracy. We maycompute, however, that the legion which was itself a body of sixthousand eight hundred and thirty-one Romans, might, with itsattendant auxiliaries, amount to about twelve thousand five hundredmen. The peace establishment of Hadrian and his successors wascomposed of no less than thirty of these formidable brigades; andmost probably formed a standing force of three hundred and seventy-five thousand men. Instead of being confined within the walls of 4 fortified