OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 179 peopled the temples of antiquity, were offensive to thefancy or conscience of the Christian Greeks; and asmooth surface of colours has ever been esteemed amore decent and harmless mode of imitation/The image The merit and effect of a copy depend on itsof Edema, resemblance with the original: but the primi­tive Christians were ignorant of the genuine features ofthe son of God, his mother, and his apostles: the sta­tue of Christ at Paneas in Palestine8 was, more proba­bly, that of some temporal saviour; the Gnostics andtheir profane monuments were reprobated; and thefancy of the Christian artists could only be guided bythe clandestine imitation of some heathen model. Inthis distress, a bold and dexterous invention assured atonce the likeness of the image and the innocence ofthe worship. A new superstructure of fable wasraised on the popular basis of a Syrian legend, on thecorrespondence of Christ and Abgarus, so famous inthe days of Eusebius, so reluctantly deserted by ourmodern advocates. The bishop of Caesareah recordsthe epistle,' but he most strangely forgets the picture 'This general history of images is drawn from the twenty-second book of theHist, des Eglises Reformees of Basnage, torn. 2. p. 1310—1337. He was a Pro­testant, but of a manly spirit; and on this head the Protestants are so notoriouslyin the right, that they can venture to be impartial. See the perplexity of poorfriar Pagi, Critica, torn. 1. p. 42. * After removing tome rubbish of miracle and inconsistency, it may be allowed,that as late as the year 300, Paneas in Palestine was decorated with a bronze sta-tne, representing a grave personage wrapt in a cloak, with a grateful or suppliantfemale kneeling before him: and that ati inscription—ra.Zvnpi, -T..J tvtfyrn—w.isperhaps inscribed on the pedestal. By the Christians, this groupe was •foolishlyexplained of their founder and the four woman whom he had cured of the bloody-Sax. (Euseb. 7.18. Philostorg. 7. 3, &c.) M. de Beausobre more reasonably con­jectures the philosopher Apollonius, or the emperor Vespasian: in tha latter sup­position, the femal» is a city, a province, or perhaps the queen Berenice. (Bib-Kotheque Germaniuue, torn. I3. p. 1—92.) 'Eoseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. 1. c. IS- The learned Assemanus has brought upthe collateral aid of the three Syrians, St. Ephrem, Josua Stylites, and James bi­shop of Sarug; but I do not find any notice of the Syriac original, or the archivesof Edessa; (Bibliot Orient, torn. 1. p. 318. 420. .v,'t. i their vague belief is pro­bably derived from the Greeks. 1 The evidence for these epistles in stated and rejected by the candid l ,;inlm r.( Heathen Testimonies, vol. 1. p. '279—309.) Among the herd of bigots who areforcibly driven from this convenient bat untenable poM, I am ashamed, with, theGrabes, Caves, Tillemonts, .v. to discover Mr. Addison, an English gentleman(ton Works, vol. t. p. 528. Baskerville's edition); but his superficial tract on tin'Christian religion owei it- credit to bin namp, its style, and the interested applauwof our clergy. x 2