OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 177 their recent ravages ; and the people of that town in­formed him that the enemy carried with them such aquantity of spoil, that they could scarcely observe anyorder in their march ; and that the commanders thendirected publicly that the troops should go immedi­ately to Samnium, deposit the booty there, and returnto the business of the expedition, as an engagementmust not be hazarded while they were so heavilyladen. Notwithstanding that this account carriedevery appearance of truth, he yet thought it necessaryto obtain more certain information: accordingly he de­spatched some horsemen to seize on some of the strag­gling marauders: from these he learned, on inquiry,that the enemy lay at the river Vulturnus ; that theyintended to remove thence at the third watch ; andthat their route was towards Samnium. On receivingthis intelligence, which could be depended on, he puthis troops in motion, and sat down at such a distancefrom the enemy, as was sufficient to prevent their dis­covering his approach, and, at the same time, left it inhis power to surprise them, as they should be comingout of their camp. A long time before day he drewnigh to their post, and sent persons who understoodthe Oscan language, to discover how they were em­ployed : these, mixing with the enemy, which theycould easily do during the confusion in the night,found that the,standards had gone out thinly attended;that the booty, and those appointed to guard it, werethen setting out, a contemptible train : each busiedabout his own affairs, without any concert with therest, or much regard to orders. This the consuljudged the fittest lime for the attack; and, daylightnow approaching, he gave orders to sound the charge,and fell on the enemy as they were marching out.The Samnites being embarrassed with the spoil, andvery few armed, were at a loss how to act. Somequickened their pace, and drove the prey before them ;others baited, deliberating whether it would be saferto advance, or to return again to the camp ; and whilethey hesitated, they were overtaken and cut off. Theliv. " vol. in. M