OCR Output DISSERTATION I. 481 III. The famous clause in this testimony of Josephus con­cerning Christ, This was Christ, or the Christ, did not meanthat this Jesus was the Christ of God, or the true Messiasof the Jews, but that this Jesus was distinguished from allothers of that name, of which there were not a few, asmentioned by Josephus himself, by the addition of the othername of Christ; or that this person was no other than howhom all the world knew by the name of Jesus Christ, andhis followers by the name of Christians. This I esteem tobe a clear case, and that from the arguments following. (1.) The Greeks and Romans, for whose use Josephuswrote his Antiquities, could no otherwise understand thesowords. The Jews indeed, and afterwards the Christians,who knew that a great Messias, a person that was to- beChrist, the Anointed of God, that was to perform the officeof a King, a Priest, and a Prophet, to God's people, mightreadily so understand this expression; but Josephus, as Ihave already noted, wrote here, not to Jews or Christians,but to Greeks and Romans, who knew nothing of this, butknew very well that an eminent person living in Judea, whosoname was Jesus Chrest, or Jesus Christ, had founded a newand numerous sect, which took the latter of those names, andwere every where from him called Chrestians, or Christians ;in which sense alone could they understand theso words cfJosephus, and in which sense I believe he desired they shouldunderstand them: nor does Josephus ever use the Hebrewterm 3Iessiah in any of his writings, nor the Greek termChrist in any such acceptation elsewhere. (2.) Josephus himself as good as explains his own meaning,and that by the last clause of this very passage, where hesays the Christians were named from this Christ, without asyllable as though he really meant he was the true Messiah,or Christ of God. He farther seems to me to explain thishis meaning in that other place, where alone he elsewherementions this name of Christ, that is, when upon occasion ofthe mention of James, when he was condemned by Ananus,he calls him the Brother of Jesus, not that was the trueMessiah, or the true Christ, but only that was called Christ.IV. —41