OCR Output AN. 31.] 549 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. delay, he should by it have his camp fortified.And as the Arabians had the same intentionsupon that place, a contest arose about it. Atfirst they were but skirmishes; but afterwardsthere came more soldiers, and it proved asort of engagement, and some fell on bothsides; till those of the Arabian side werebeaten and retreated. This was no smallencouragement to the Jews: and when Herodobserved that the enemy's army were dis­posed to any thing rather than to come to anengagement, he ventured boldly to attemptthe bulwark itself, and to pull it to pieces;and so to get nearer to their camp, in orderto fight them. For when they were forcedout of their trenches, they went out in dis­order, and had not the least alacrity, or hopeof victory. Yet did they fight hand to hand;because they were more numerous than theJews; and because they were in such a dis­position of war, that they were under a ne­cessity of coming on boldly. So they cameto a terrible battle; while not a few fell oneach side. However, at length the Arabiansfled; and so great a slaughter was made upontheir being routed, that they were not onlykilled by their enemies, but became the au­thors of their own deaths also; and weretrodden down by the multitude, and thegreat current of people in disorder; andwere destroyed by their own armour. Sofive thousand men lay dead upon the spot,while the rest of the multitude soon ranwithin the bulwark for safety; but had nofirm hope of safety, by reason of their wantof necessaries, and especially of water. TheJews pursued them, but could not get in withthem; but sat round about the bulwark, andwatched any assistance that would get in tothem; and prevented any, that had a mind toit, from running away. When the Arabians were in these circum­stances, they sent ambassadors to Herod; inthe first place to propose terms of accommo­dation, and after that to offer him, (so press­ing was their thirst upon them,) to undergo whatsoever he pleased, if he would free themfrom their present distress. But he wouldadmit of no ambassadors, of no price of re­demption, nor of any other moderate termswhatever; being very desirous to revengethose unjust actions which they had beenguilty of towards his nation. So they werenecessitated by other motives, and particu­larly by their thirst, to come out, and deliverthemselves up to him, to be carried awaycaptives. And in five days' time the numberof four thousand were taken prisoners: whileall the rest resolved to make a sally upontheir enemies, and to fight it out with them:choosing rather, if so it must be, to dietherein, than to perish gradually and inglo-riously. When they had taken this resolu­tion, they came out of their trenches; butwere unable to sustain the fight; being toomuch debilitated both in mind and body; andhaving not room to exert themselves; andthought it an advantage to be killed, and amisery to survive. So at the first onset therefell about seven thousand of them. Afterwhich stroke, they let all the courage theyhad put on before fall; and stood amazed atHerod's warlike spirit under his own cala­mities. So, for the future, they yielded, andmade him ruler of their nation. He wasgreatly elevated at so seasonable a success;and returned home, taking great authorityupon him, on account of his bold and gloriousexpedition CHAP. VI. HEROD CAUSES HYRCANUS TO BE PUT TO DEATH; ANDOBTAINS THE CONFIRMATION OF HIS OWN DIGNITY FROMOCTAVIUS CESAR, WHOM HE ENTERTAINED IN A SUMP­TUOUS MANNER. HEROD's other affairs were now veryprosperous; and he was not to be easilyassaulted on any side. Yet did there comeupon him a danger that would hazard his en­tire dominions, after Antony had been beatenat the battle of Actium by Octavius Caesar.* * Antony had provoked Octavinnus against him, by thewrong done to Octavia his sister, whom Antony had mar­ried, and yet divorced her for the gratification of hisadulterous love to Cleopatra, though Octavia was muchthe handsomer of the two. Antony had likewise givenout, that Cleopatra had been married to Julius Caesar, andthat Caesanon, whom she had by him, was his lawful son, and consequently had the proper right to the inheritance,which Octavianus held only as his adopted son. Thesethings were objected against Antony; and Antony, byhis agents and letters, was not forgetful to recriminate.But these things were no more than pretences: thetrue reason of their disagreement was, that both thesetwo great men, being not contented with half of the 4 Q2