OCR Output an. 902.] 313 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sent to Ahab, and desired him to go awayto the city before the storm of rain camedown. So he came to the city Jezreel. Andin a little time the air was all obscured, andcovered with clouds; and a vehement stormof wind came upon the earth, and with it agreat deal of rain. And the prophet wasunder a divine fury, and ran along with theking's chariot unto Jezreel, a city of Izar.* When Jezebel, the wife of Ahab, under­stood what signs Elijah had wrought, andhow he had slain the prophets, she was angry,and sent messengers to him; and by themthreatened to kill him,f as he had destroyedher prophets. At this Elijah was affrighted,and fled to the city called Beersheba; whichis situate at the utmost limits of the countrybelonging to the tribe of Judah, towards theland of Edom. And there he left his servant,and went away into the desert.J He prayedalso that he might die: for that he was notbetter than his fathers; nor therefore needbe very desirous to live when they weredead: and he lay and slept under a certaintree. And when somebody awakened him,and he was risen up, he found food set byhim, and water. So when he had eaten,and renewed his strength by that food, hecame to the mountain called Sinai ;|| where itis related that Moses received his laws fromGod. And finding there a certain hollow cave, he entered into it, and continued tomake his abode in it. But when a certainvoice came to him, and asked, "Why hecame thither, and had left the city?" hesaid, that because he had slain the prophetsof the foreign gods; and had persuaded thepeople that he alone, whom they had wor­shipped from the beginning was God, he wassought for by the king's wife to be punishedfor so doing. And when he had heard ano­ther voice, telling him that he should comeout the next day into the open air, andshould thereby know what he was to do, hecame out of the cave the next day accord­ingly. He then both heard an earthquake,and saw the bright splendour of a fire; andafter a silence, a divine voice exhorted himnot to be disturbed with the circumstances hewas in; for that none of his enemies shouldhave power over him. The voice also com­manded him to return home, and to ordainJehu, the son of Nimshi, to be king overtheir own multitude; and Hazael, of Damas­cus, to be over the Syrians; and Elisha, ofthe city Abel, to be a prophet in his stead.And that of the impious multitude, someshould be slain by Hazael, and others byJehu. So Elijah, upon hearing this charge,returned into the land of the Hebrews. Andwhen he found Elisha, the son of Shaphat,ploughing, and certain others with him * For Izar, we may here read with Hudson and Coc-ceius, Isachar, i. e. of the tribe of Isachar, for to thattribe did Jezreel belong: and presently, chap. xv. wemay read for Izar, with one MS. nearly, and the Scrip­ture, Jezreel; for that was the city meant in the historyof Naboth. t This certainly was the effect of her blind rage, andnot of any prudence in her; for prudence would haveadvised her to conceal her resentment, until she hadbeen ready to put her design in execution; whereas thissending him word was giving him notice of his danger,and admonishing him to avoid it . But, since he had theconfidence to come where she was, she might think per­haps, that he was as courageous as she was furious; that,upon this notice he would scorn to fly; and she too, inher pride, might scorn to kill him secretly or surrepti­tiously, resolving to make him a public sacrifice. Patrick'tCommentary, and Pool's Annotations. B. J 1 Kings xix. 3, 4. II Elijah being now come to the same place, whereGod had delivered the law to his servant Moses, Godwas minded to communicate the like favour to his servantthe prophet, viz. to unveil his Majesty to him, and givehim some signal of his immediate presence: but there issomething very remarkable in the words of the text:—And behold the Lord passed by, and a strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks, hut theLord was not in the wind; and, after the wind, an earth­quake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake; andafter the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in thefire; and, after the fire, a still small voice, 1 Kings xix,11, &c. And various are the speculations which this ap­pearance of the divine Majesty hath suggested to inter­preters. The generality of them have looked upon thisas a figure of the gospel-dispensation, which came, not insuch a terrible manner as the law did, with storms, thun­ders, lightnings, and earthquakes, (Exod. xix. 16.) butwith great lenity and sweetness, wherein God speaks tous by his Son, who makes use of no other but gentle ar­guments and soft persuasions. But, if we take this to bea symbolical admonition to Elijah, according to the cir­cumstances he was then in, we may reasonably suppose,that herein God intended to shew him, that though hehad all the elements ready armed at his command todestroy idolaters, if he pleased to make use of them, yethe had rather attain his end by patience, and tenderness,and long-suffering, (signified by that small still voice,wherein the Deity exhibited himself,) and consequently,that the prophet should hereby be incited to imitate him,bridling that passionate zeal to which his natural com­plexion did hut too much incline him. Le Clerc,>, Col*wietf's, and Patrick's Commentaries.. B,