OCR Output CHAP. LI. 447 criminal cases to the subordinate jurisdiction of their ownlaws and magistrates. But if the justice of Tarik pro­tected the Christians, his gratitude and policy rewardedthe Jews, to whose secret or open aid he was indebtedfor his most important acquisitions. Persecuted by thekings and synods of Spain, who had often pressed thealternative of banishment or baptism, that outcast nationembraced the moment of revenge; the comparison oftheir past and present state was the pledge of their fide­lity; and the alliance between the disciples of Moses andof Mahomet, was maintained till the final era of theircommon expulsion. From the royal .seat of Toledo, theArabian leader spread his conquests to the north, overthe modern realms of Castile and Leon; but it is need­less to enumerate the cities that yielded on his approach,or again to describe the table of emerald,* transportedfrom the east by the Romans, acquired by the Gothsamong the spoils of Rome, and presented by the Arabsto the throne of Damascus. Beyond the Asturian moun­tains, the maritime town of Gijon was the term' of thelieutenant of Musa, who had performed, with the speedof a traveller, his victorious march, of seven hundredmiles, from the rock of Gibraltar to the bay of Biscay.The failure of land compelled him to retreat; and hewas recalled to Toledo, to excuse his presumption ofsubduing a kingdom in the absence of his general.Spain, which, in a more savage and disorderly state, hadresisted, two hundred years, the arms of the Romans,was over-run in a few months by those of the Saracens;and such was the eagerness of submission and treaty, • In the Hiutoria Arabum, (c. 9. p. 17. ad calcem Elmacin), Roderic of Toledodescribes the emerald tables, and inserts the name of Medinat Almeyda in Arabicwords and letters. He appears to be conversant with the Mahometan writers; butI cannot agree with M. de (<ui;ues, (Hist, des Huns, torn. 1. p. 550.) that he badread and transcribed Novairi; because he was dead a hundred years before No-rairi composed his history. This mistake is founded on a still grosser error. M. deGuignes confounds the historian Roderic Ximenes. archbishop of Toledo, in thethirteenth century, with cardinal Ximenes, who governed Spain in the beginning ofthe sixteenth, and was the subject, not the author of historical compositions. 1 Tarik might have inscribed oa the last rock, the boast of Regnard and bis com­panions in their Lapland journey, " Hie tandem stetimns, nobis vbi defuit orbis."