OCR Output VIA SALARIA. VIA VALERIA. 1305 and is marked in the Itineraries as 18 miles fromRome. Here the Via Nomentana again fell intothe Salaria. (Strab. t. p. 228.) Hence to Reatethe latter road traversed a hilly country, but of nogreat interest, following nearly the same line asthe modem road from Rome to liicti. The interme­diate station of Ad Novas or Vicus Korus, as it iscalled in the Antoniuc Itinerary is still marked byruins near the OiUria Xuova, 32 miles from Rome,and 16 from /freer. Here an old church still bore ata late period the name of I'tco A'uoro. The stations on the original Via Salaria, fromRome to Keate, are correctly given, and can clearlybe identified.From Rome to Eretura (Grotla ifarmzti) - xviii. M.P.Vicus Novus (Ott. Suova) - xiv.Keate (Jiieti) - - - - zvLFrom Reate the Via Salaria (or the continuationof it as given in the Itineraries) proceeded nearlydoe E. by Cutiliae, which is identified by its cele­brated lake, or rather mineral springs, to Interocrea(Antrodoeo), situated at the junction of two naturalpasses or lines of communication through the centralApennines. The one of these leads from Interocreato Amiternum, in the upper valley of the A tern us,and was followed by a cross-road given in the Tabula,but of which both the stations and the distances areextremely confused: the other, which is the mainvalley of the Velinus, and bears nearly due N., wasascended by the Via Salaria as far as Falacrinum,16 miles from Interocrea, and near the sources ofthe Velinus. Thence that road crossed the ridgeof tbe Apennines and descended into the valley of theJ'ronto (Truentus), which river it followed to itsmouth at Caslrum Truentinum, passing on the way bythe strongly situated city of Asculum (Aiculi). Thedistances on this line of route are thus correctlygiven in tbe Antonine Itinerary (p. 307):From Reate to Cutiliae (near Paterno) - - viii. ll. r.Interocrea (Antrodoeo) - - vi.Falacrinum (near Cicita HeaW) - xvi.Vicus Badies - - - - ix.Ad Centesimum* - • - x.Ascalum (Ascoli) - xii.Castrum Truentinum - - xx.From this last point two roads branclied oft", theone turning N-, and proceeding along the coast ofthe Adriatic to Ancona; the other proceeding S.along the same coast to Castrum Novum (nearOutiia Atiora), and thence to Adria (Atri). TheLitter branch is given in the Itinerary as a part oftlie Via SaUria; but it is clear that neither of themproperly belonged to that highway, both being in£xct only portions of the long line of road whichfollowed the coast of the Adriatic continuously fromAnruuato Brundusium, and which is given in the An­tonine Itinerary in connection with the Via Elaininia(/tin. Ant. pp.313—316). (The course of the Via * It is clear from the name that this station was■ iistant 100 miles from Rome, while the distancesabove given would make up only 97 miles : but itit uncertain at what precise point the deficiencyoccurs. The Tabula gives 9 miles from Keate toCuli&je, and 7 thence to Interocrea: if these dis­tances be adopted the result is 99 miles, leavinga, discrepancy of only one mile. In either case theapproximation is sufficient to show the general cor­rectness of tha Itineraries. Salaria is examined, and the distances discussed indetail by D'Anville, Analyte Geographiqut de CItaliepp. 163—169.) [E. U. B.] VIA SUBLACENSIS. [Via Valeria.]VIA TIBEKINA, a name found in inscriptions,and noticed by the Notitia and CurioMim among theroads that issued from the gates of Rome, was in allprobability the road that quilted the Via Elaminiaat Saxa Rubra, and followed the right bank of theTiber until it rejoined the Via Elaminia, betweenAcqua Viva and Bergketto, The existence of sucha road is known from remains of it still visible: andit is the only one to which the name of Via Tiberinacan well be applied. (Westphal, Hum. Kamp. pp.134, 138.) [E. H. B.] VIA TIBUBTINA [Via Valeria.]VIA TRAJANA. [Via Appia, No. 4.]VIA VALERIA (h OooAepla *M», Strab.), oneof the most celebrated and important of the Romanhighways, which led from Rome, or, more strictlyspeaking, from Tibur, to the lake Eucinus and theland of the Marsi, and thence was subsequentlycontinued to the Adriatic, at the mouth of ihe Ater-nus. The period of its construction is uncertain.It has indeed been frequently supposed to have de­rived its name from, and to have been the work of,M. Valerius Maximus, who was censor with C. JuniusBubulcus in B. c. 307; but the expression of Livy,that the two constructed roads " per agros," wouldcertainly seem to refer to cross-roads in the neigh­bourhood of Rome; and it is very improbable thatthe construction of so celebrated a highway an thoVia Valeria should not have been more distinctlystated. (Liv. ix. 43.) The Via Valeria, indeed,was properly only a continuation of the Via Tibur-tina, which led from Rome to Tibur; and thuughthe Itineraries include the whole line of route underthe name of the Via Valeria, it appears that the dis­tinction was still kept up in the time of Stnibo, whodistinctly speaks of the Valerian Way as btyinnmgfrom Tibur, and leading to the Marsi, and toCorfiniuui, the metropolis of the I'eligni (Strab. v.p. 238). The expressions of the geographer wouldnaturally lead us to conclude that the Via Valeriawas iu his tune carried as a regular highway as faras Corfinium; but we learn from an inscription, thatthis was not the case, and that the regularly con­structed ruad stopped short at Cerfenuia, at the footof the Mons Imeus or Forca di Ctirwo, a steep anddifficult pass, over which the highway whs not carriedtill the reign of Claudius, who at tbe same time con­tinued it to the month of the Atenius. (Urell. Inter.711.) It appears that the portion thus added atfirst bore the name of the Via Claudia Valeria {Inter.i.e.); but tbe distinction was soon lost sight of,andthe whole line of route from Rome to the Adriatiowas commonly known as the Via Valeria, (/tin.Ant. p. 308.) It will be convenient here to adoptthe same usage, and consider the whole course of theroad under one head. Tho Via Tiburtina, as the road from Rome toTibur was properly called, must undoubtedly havebeen of very ancient origin. There must indeedhave existed from the earliest ages of Rome a fre­quented highway or communication between the twocities; but we are wholly ignorant as to the timewhen a regularly made road, with its solU pavementand all the other accessories of a Roman via. was con­structed from tbe one city to tbe other. Tbe road aait existed in the time of the Roman Empire may bedistinctly traced by portions still remaining of the