OCR Output 1148 THEBAE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE B0E0T1AL the other Boeotian towns. A democratic^! form ofgovernment was established in the different cities,and the oligarchical leaders were driven into exile,(Time. i. 1U8; Diod. xi. 81.) This state of thingslifted barely ten years; the democracy est a!») is liedat Thebes was ill-conducted (Arist. PoL v. 2.§ 0); and in li.c. 447 the various Boeotian exiles,combining their forces, made themselves masters ofOrchomenus, Chacroueia, and some other places.The Athenians sent an army into Boeotia under thecommand of Tolmides; but this general was slain inbattle, together with many of his men, while a stilllarger number were taken prisoners. To recover theseprisoners, the Athenians agreed to relinquish theirpower over Thebes and the other Boeotian cities.Thedemocratica] irovi-rnments were overthrown; theexiles were restored; and Theltes again became thebitter enemy of Athens. (Tbuc. i. 113, iii. C2;Diod. xii. 6.) The 1 hebans were indeed more anti-Athenian than were the Startans themselves, andwere the first to commence the I'einponncMan Warby their attempt to surprise 1'lataea in the night,B.C. 431. The history of this attempt, and of thesub*eqiient siege and capture of the city, in-longs tothe history of l'lataea. [Pi.ataka.] Throughoutthe iVloponnesiun War llie Thebans continued theactive and hitter enemies of the Athenians; and uponits dose after the battle of Aegospotami they joinedthe Corinthians in urging the Lacedaemonians todestroy Athens, and sell its population into slavery.(Xen. Hell. ii. 2. § 19.) But soon after this eventthe feelings of the Thebans towards Athens becamematerially changed in consequence of their jealousyof Sparta, who had refused the allies all participationin the spoil* of the war, and who now openly aspiredto the supremacy of Greece. (Plut. I.ys. 27; Justin,vi. ID.) They consequently viewed with hostilitythe Thirty Tyrants at Athena as the supporters of theSpartan [wwer, and gave a friendly welcome to theAthenian exiles. It was from Thebes that Thrasy-buldB and the other exiles started upon their enter­prise of seizing the l*eiraeeus; and they were sup­ported u|M»n this occasion by lsmeniaa and otherTheban citizens. (Xen. fhll. ii. 4. § 2.) So im­portant was the assistance retidered by the Thebanson this occasion that Thasybulus, after his success,showed bis gratitude by dedicating in the temple ofHercules colossal statues of this god and Athena.(Pans, ix. 11. § 6.) The hostile feelings of Thebes towards Spartacontinued to im-rcase, and soon produced the moatimportant results. When Agesilaus was crossingover into Asia in b. C. 3'J7, in order to carry onwar against the Persians, the Thebans refused totake any part in the exjicdition, and they rudelyinterrupted Agesilaus when lie was in the act ofottering sacrifices at Aulis, in imitation of Aga­memnon; an insult which the Spartan king neverforgave. (Xen. Hell. iii. 5. § 5; Plut. Ayts. 6:Pans. iii. U. §§ 3—5.) During the absence ofAgesilaus in Asia, Tilhraustes, the satrap of AsiaMinor, sent an envoy to Greece to distribute largesums of money among the leading men in theGrecian cities, in order to persuade them to makewar against Sparta. But before a coalition couldbe formed for this purpose, a separate war brokeout between Thebes and Sparta, tailed by Diodoras(xiv. 81) the Boeotian war. A quarrel havingarisen between the Opuntian Locrians and thePhocians respecting a strip of border land, theThebans espoused the cause of the former und Invaded Phocis. Thereupon the l*boca» -itHthe aid of the Lacedaemonians, who werr frirkalto have an opportunity of am^ioc ifc* »r«s»they hail received from the Tbrbans. (I&Miii. 5. §§ 3—5; Paua. iii. 9. § 9.) TV Lwsavmonians matle active preparations to knot BadI.ysander, who had been foremottthe war, was to lay siege to Hahartaa, iwalls of which town Pausanias was t* ]a given day with tbe unitedPelopoimesian forces. Thus menaced, th* Taaeaapplied for assistance to their ancient «Kna\mAthenians, who readily responded to taar itsatthough their city was still undefended by u*ss)they had no ships to resist the martn* f*"*'Sparta. (Xen. Utll iii. 5. § 16; Ben.* (a*}258.) Orchomenus, however, seized tat <n*jtunity to revolt from Thebes, and joined L^aoitin his attack upon Ilaliartus. (Xen.§17; Plut. Lys. 28.) The death of Lnsrifunder the walls of Hal art us, which vat feifcaailythe retreat of Pausanias from Boeotia. eabsmuthe enemies of Sjarta; and not only A: s *Corinth, Argos, and some of the other Gncaaanmjoined Thebes in a league against Sparu. ht b»jfollowing year (b. <'. 394) the war was truant'to the territory of Corinth; and so puauislMmthe confeilerates that tbe Lacedar: n..hi* laanvAgesilaus from Asia. In tbe month ofAgesilaus reached lloeotia on bis bomewxr: ■nnfland fuimd the confederate army drawn as is l|plain of Coroneia to oppose him. The hfttnfland centre of his army were victanoaa, tat flThebans completely defeated tbe OrehnsmHwho formed the left wing. The W'-fcrK^ Tan■now faced about, in order to regain the res: t*nTarmy, which had retreated to Monjt Hnn]Agesilaus advanced to meet them; ami'which ensued was one of the most terrinihad yet taken place in Grecian warim.Thebans at length succeeded in fcrdafthrough, but not without great losa. Tsssifirst time that the Thebans had fongil sbattle with the Spartans; and the cafcarthey showed on this occasion was a preiaavvictories which were soon t«» overthrow tatsnpremacv in Greece. (Xen. UdL a\ ll15—21.) We have dwelt upon these everts sasesnMlength in order to explain the rise of u»> Tmnlpower; but the subsequent history mast be anflmore briefly. After the battle of Cun-r«of events appeaivd at first to deprive Tfc»*w 4ascendency she had lately acquired. Tbe nsa*Antaleidas (u. c. 387), which waa ooorinw s*nthe influence of Sparta, guaranteed the ndeanfcflof all the Grecian cities; and tboamgh tneTaaumJfirst claimed to take the oath, not in tnesraMalone, but for the Boeotian cojthey were compelled by their enemy a\g|swear to the treaty fur their own city iotherwise they wuuld have had to causes**handed with the whole power of Sparta sfjallies. (Xen. IhlL v. 1. §3 32. 3A) B*the Thebans virtually renounced their ■over the Boeotian cities: and A^eaiousi naexert all the Spartan power for the ]weakening Thebes. Not only was the sadof the Boeotian cities pr«claunedTaod a bcuorganised in each city ho&uie to Tbtbm Mable to Sparta, but LacedaemtBuar pea