OCR Output B. III. 273 YEA* V.—BETORE CHRIST 427. despised them so far as to neglect a proper guard, and socontributed to their own destruction. Many such daring outrages were now by way of prece­dent committed at Corcyra; nay, all whatever, that men,who are wreaking revenge upon such as before were theirmasters, and had exerted their superiority with savagenessmore than humanity, can in turn retaliate upon them, wereexecuted there.—Some joined in these acts of violence toprocure a discharge from their former poverty ; but the great­er number, through a passionate desire to seize the propertyof their neighbours. Or, though they were not lured bythe lust of rapine, but engaged in the contest upon fair andopen views, yet hurried to wild extravagance through madand undisciplined anger, they proceeded to cruel acts, anc^;with inexorable fury. The whole order of human life wasfor a season confounded in this city. The human temper,too apt to transgress in spite of laws, and now having gainedthe ascendant over law, seemed pleased with exhibiting thispublic manifestation, that it was too weak for anger, too strongfor justice, and an enemy to all superiority. Men could nototherwise have awarded the preference to revenge over righ­teous duty, and to lucre over that habit of justice in whichenvy never yet had power to annoy them. But more thanthis, when the point in view is revenge upon others, menhaughtily make precedents against themselves, by infringingthose laws which are binding by the ties of nature, and fromwhich alone any hope of safety can be extracted for themselvesin a plunge of misery, precluding thus all possibility of re­dress, should they be reduced in some future extremity tomake the same appeal. And thus the Corcyreans continued to execute the rage ofsuch cruel passions, upon the heads of one another, withinthe precincts of their own city, of which this was the first ex­ample in Greece, till Eurymedon, with the Athenian fleetunder his command, put out again to sea. But, after his departure, they who by flight hr.d preserved