OCR Output 48 INDIA. INDIA. majority of subsequent geographers, from Ptolemy.Subsequent to this date, there are few works whichrail within the range of classical geography, orwhich have added any information of real value onthe nubject of India; while most of them haveborrowed from Ptolemy, whose comprehensive workwas soon a text-book in the hands of learned men.From Agathemerus (at the end of the second century)and Dionysius Periegctcs (towards the end of thethird century) soine few particulars may be gleaned:— as for instance, from the latter, the establish­ment of the Indo-Scythi along the banks of theIndus, in Scmde and Guzerat; and, from a workknown by the name of Periplue Maria Erythraei(the date of which, though late, is not certainlydetermined), some interesting notices of the choresof the Indian Ocean. Kestus Avienus, whose para-]jhrase of Dionysius Perie^etea supplies some lacunaein other parts of his work, adds nothing of interestto his metrical account of Indian Geography. Such may serve as a concise outline of the pro­gress of knowledge in ancient times relative to India.Before, however, we proceed to describe the countryitself under the various heads of mountains, rivers,provinces, and cities, it will be well to say a fewwords on the origin of the name India, with somenotice of the suWivisions which were in use amongthe earlier geographers, but which we have notthought it convenient in this place to perpetuate. The names Indus, India, arc no doubt derivedfrom the Sanscrit appellation of the river, Sindliu,which, in the plural furm, means also the people whodwelt along its banks. The adjoining countries haveadopted this name, with slight modifications: thus,Hani* is the form in the Zend or old Persian, llodduin the Hebrew (Either, i. 1, viii. 9). The Greeklangungto softened down the word by omitting the h,hence "Mot, 'Irdia; though in some instances thenative name was preserved almost unchanged, as inthe 2ir0or of the I'eriplus Maris Erythraei. Plinybears testimony to the native form, when he says,"Indus incolis Sin J us appellator" (vi. 20. s. 23). The great divisions of India which have beenusually adopted are those of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 1),into,—(1) India intra Gangem, a vast district, whichwas bounded, according to that geographer, on theYV. by the Paropaniisadae, Arachosia, and Gedrosia;on the N. by the Imaus, in the direction of the Sog-diani and Sacae; on the E. by the Ganges, and onthe S. by a part of the Indian Ocean: and (2) Indiaextra Gangem (Ptol. vii. 2. § I), which was boundedon the YY. by the Ganges; on the N. by Scythia andSerica; on the E. by the Sinae, and by a line extendedfrom their country to the McydAot mJAs-uv (flulfofSiam); and on the S. by the Indian Ocean, and a linedrawn from the island of Menothias (I'tol. vii. 2.§ I), whence it appears that Ptolemy considered thattho Ganges flowed nearly due N. and S. We haveconsidered that this division is too arbitrary to beadopted here; we merely state it as the one proposedby Ptolemy and long current among geographers.The later ecclesiastical writers made use of otherterms, as 1) Iroiriom "lriia, in which they includedera Arabia (Socrat H. E. i. 19; Theud. i. 23;Theoph. i. 35), and *j '"X^'l "I»*a (Suuxnen, ii.23). The principal mountains of India (considered as awhole) were: — the eastern purtionof the Pamjjainisus(or Hindu-Etui), the lawns (Haiumra), and theKmMus (now known by the generic name nf theHimalaya.) To the extreme K. wcic the Muntes gemanthini, the boundary of the land of the Stoat,the Montes Dnmaasi, and the Bepyrrhus M. (probablythe present Xaraka M.). An extension of the SLDamassi is the Maeandrus M. (now J/uis-Ja'm).In India intra Gangem Ptolemy mentions manymountains, the names of which can with difficulty besupplied with their modern representatives: as theOrudii M., in the S. extremity of the land betweenthe Tyndis and the Chaberus; the U lent us M., tothe N. of them; the Adisathrus M.; the Bittigo M.(probably the range now known as the GhdU). andthe M. Vindius (unquestionably the present V'vtd-hya), which extend NE. and SW. along the N. bankof the Nerbudtla; M. Sardonix (probably the presentSaulpura); and JI. Apocopa (perhaps the presentAravtUi). The principal promontories in India are:—in theextreme E., Promontorium Magnum, the westernside of the Sinus Magnus; Malaei Colon, on the S.coast of the golden peninsula; Promontorium Aun-aeChersonesi, the southern termination of the SinusSabaracus, on the western side of the Cbersonesus;Cory or Calligicum, between the S. Argarico* andthe S. Colchicus, near the SW. end of the peninsulaof Ilindostan; Comaria (now C. Comorin), the mostsouthern point of liindoitdn; Calae Carias (or Calli-caris), between the towns Anamagara and Muriri*;Simylla (or Setnylla, the southern end of the S.Barygazenus, perhaps the present C. SL John), andMaleunu In the same direction from E. to W. are the fol­lowing gulfs and bays:—the Sinus Magnus (now Gm/fof Siam); S. Perimulicus, and Saharicus, on the K.and W. side of the Chersonesus A urea; S. Gangeti-cus {liny of Bengal), S. Argaricus, opposite the X.end of Taprobane (probably Palis Hay); S. Col­chicus (Bay of ifanaar); S. Barygaxenus (Gulf ufCambay), and S. Canthi (most likely the Uvlj' ofCutch). The rivers of India are very numerous, and manyof them of great size. The most important (fnauE. to W.) are the Dorias (Salren f) and Duanas(the Irrawaddy), the Chrysoana, Besynga, theTocosanna (probably the present Arrakan). and theCatabeda (now Curmtui); the Ganges, with manytributaries, themselves large rivers. [Gamoks.]Along the W. side of the Bay of Bengal are theAdainas (Brahmini), Dosaron (Mahanddi), Maraolus(Godtivdri), Tyndis (Kutna), and the Chaberis carChaberus (the Cdveri). Along the shores of theIndian Ocean are the Nanaguna (7orfu), the Na-madus(A*armad(f oriYeroiKiaVi)land lastly the Indus,with its several tributaries. [Indus.] The towns in India known to the ancienta werevery numerous; yet it is remarkable that but fewdetails have been given concerning them in thedifferent authors of whose works fragments stillremain. Generally, these writers seem to have beencontent with a simple list of the names, adding,in sonic instances, that such a place was an im­portant mart for commerce. The probability ia. that,even so late as Ptolemy, few cities had reached suf­ficient importance to command the productions of aaextensive surrounding country; and that, in fad,with one or two exceptions, the towns which be andothers enumerate were little more than the headplaces of small districts, and in no sense capitals «sfgreat empires, such as Ghazna, Delhi, and Calcuttahave become in later periisls of Indian history. Be­ginning from ill* extreme E., the principal stales andtowns mentioned ui the ancient writers are: PerinuiU