OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. *S3 Apollo, to whom the swan is sacred; and consequently this birdplainly signified Plato in the dream of Socrates. Olympiodorustoo, in his Life of Plato, informs us, that when that philosopherwas near his death, he dreamt that he was changed into a (wan,and that, by flying from tree to tree, he gave much trouble to thefowlers in catching him: and this dream, fays he, according to theSocratic Simmias, signified that his meaning would not be appre­hended by his interpreters. For interpreters are similar to fowlers,by attempting to explain the conceptions of the ancients: andPlato's meaning cannot be apprehended, because his discourses,like those of Homer, may be understood physically, ethically,theologically, and in short multifariously. For the souls of Homerand Plato are said to have been produced all-harmonic. Let ithowever be remembered, that though Plato's meaning was byno means apprehended by his more ancient interpreters, yet it is'most divinely and fully unfolded by the latter Platonists, amongwhom Olympiodorus holds a very distinguished place. Page 91. Jipolh changed him into the bird whose name he boreS\Nothing more appears to be signisiedby this fable, than that Cyc-nus was a man wholly given to external harmony, and who there­fore knew nothing of philosophy, which is the greatest music, asPlato in the Phædo beautifully observes. In consequence there­fore of this neglect of his foul he became united with the life ofa swan, as the punishment of his guilt. But observe, that whenthe rational soul is said to be changed into a brute, the meaning is,that the foul becomes bound to the life of a brute in the fame man­ner as otirpresiding dæmons are united with our fouls: for the hu­man foul never becomes the animating part of a brute, any moiethan dæmons become human fouls. I only add, that the doctrine oftransmigration when viewed in this light is extremely beautiful:and Syrianus and Proclus were, I believe, the first by whom it wasthus explained. Page 92. There is a temple of Ceres Tbesmophorui.~\ Cere* wa»with great propriety worshipped by the ancients as Thcsmophorut, or