OCR Output -110 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. though more commonly known as the Fhtme StUaMaddalenat which still forms the extreme limit ofthe suburbs of Naples on the K. .side; from thenceit probably extended as far as the mole ami oldcastle, which bound the port on the W. Pliny■peaks of the small bland which he calls Megaris,and which can be no other than the rock DOW occu­pied by the Castel </t/f Uoro, as situated betweenPawfUypas and Neapofis (Plin. iii. fi. s. 12); it istherefore clear that the city did not extend so far asthis point. Immediately above the ancient portionof the city rises a steep bill, now crowned by theCastU of St. Elmo; and from thence there runs anarrow volcanic ridge, of no great elevation, butsteep ami abrupt, which continues without interrup­tion in a SW. direction, till it ends in a headlandimmediately opposite to the island of Ncsis or SUida.It is the western portion of this ridge which was knownin ancient timet as the Mons Pai'SILYPUs, ami isstill called the Hill of Poiilipo. It formed a markedbarrier between the immediate environs of Xeajvilisand those of Putcoli and Baiae, and must have beena great obstacle to the free communication betweenthe two cities; hence a tunnel was ojiened throughthe hill for the passage of the high-road, which hasserved that purpose ever iince. This passage, calledin ancient times the Crypta Neapolitan*, and nowknown as the Gvutta <H Po$itipot is a remarkablework of its kind, and has been described by manymodern travellers. It is 2244 feet long, and 21feet broad: its height is unequal, but, towards theentrance, is not less than 70 feet. It is probable,however, that the work has been much enlarged inlater times. Seneca, in one of his letters, gives agreatly exaggerated view of its fancied horrors,arising from the darkness and dust. (Sen. Ep. 57.)Strabo assigns its construction to Cocceius, probablythe M. Cocceius Xerva, who was superintendent ofaqueduct* under Tiberius, and who constructed asimilar tunnel from the lake Avcrnus to CUlnae(Strab. v. p. 245); and there is no reason to doubtthis statement, though many Italian antiquarianshave maintained that the work must be much moreancient. On the hill immediately above the E. en­trance of the gmtto is an ancient sepulchre designatedby tradition as the tomb of Virgil; and thoughpopular tradition is a very unsafe guide in suchcases, there seems in this instance no sufficientreason to reject its testimony. We know, from theprecise statement of Donatus, that the poet wasburied on the road to Putcoli, within less than twomiles from Naples (*' via Puteolana intra lapidemsecundem," Donat. Yit. Yirg.; Hieron. Chron. ad01. l'J'>), which agrees well with the site in ques­tion, especially if (as is probable) the hi:;h-road atthat time pa>sed over the hill, and not through thegrotto beneath. The argument of Cluverius, whoinferred, from the description of Statius (Silo, it. 4.50—55), that the tomb of Virgil was situated atthe foot of Mount Vesuvius, is certainly untenable.(Clover. It'll, p. 1153; Eustace's Classical Tour,vol. ii. pp. 370—380; Jorio, Onida tli Pozziioli,j.p. 118, jfC.) Near the Capo di Posilipo, as the headland oppo­site to Niiida is now called, are the extensive ruinsof a II..man villa, which are supposed to be those ofthe celebrated villa of Vedhis Poliio, which gavename to the whole hill, and which he bequeathed byhis will to Augustus. (Dion Cass. Ii v. 23; Plin.ix 53. ?. 78.) Immediately oppose to the head­land, between it and the itland of Ntsida (Nesis). lie two email Islets, or rather rocks, one of vtiAnow serves for the Lazzaretto,—the other, which isuninhabited, is called LaGajola; these are ssffflflto be the islands called by Statius Limon too Ea*ploea, (Stat Sib. ir. 2. 79, iii. 1. 149.) Fnsitheir trifling size it is no wonder that they iff ostnoticed, by any other author. Ilecent fxcavitsanon the sup[>osed site of the villa of Poliio bsstbrought to light far more extensive remains thaiwere previously known to exist, and which a&Tsiistrong illustration of the magnificent scale on vtsSJthese edifices were constructed. Among the rialthus brought to light are those of a theatre, ttnseats of which are cut out of the tufa rock; SIOdeon, or theatre for music; a Iiasilica; besides ss>merous porticoes and other edifices, and exlosiHreservoirs for water. But the mo>t rrmuiafllwork connected with these remains is a tunnel flgallery pierced through the promontory, which Iactually longer than the Grotta dt Posilipo, Wwork appears from an inscription to have bees wstored by the emperor Honorius; the period sflconstruction is wholly uncertain. (BulUiL eUafArch. 1841, pp. 147—160; Avellino, BvUeO. IcheoL XapttL 1843, Nos, 4—6.) Many writingassigned the extensive ruins visible on the bBlPooiUpo to a villa of Lucullan; and it is ceres]that that statesman had a Neapolitan villa data*from that at Misenum (Cic. Acad, ii. 3). buttsite is nowhere indicated; and the supposition^it was the same which afterwards passed into Ihands of Vedius Poliio is not warranted by ■ancient authority. Though the neighbourhood of Xapleo abosasMall sides in ancient remains, those* which are 4extant in the city itself are inconsiderable, %arches of a Hainan theatre in the street called Jflca'/lia, a fragment of an aqueduct known byfname of the Ponti Rossi, and the n mains aftemple dedicated to Castor and Pollux, lacorpBSflinto the church of S. Pooh, are all the ancientUqnow visible. But the inscriptions which haws |Jdiscovered on the site, and are for the mott partiserved in the museum, arc numerous and intsasnaiThey fully confirm the account piven by saufwriters of the Greek character so long retaissnVtho city, and notice its division into Phntriea,nflmust have continued at least as late as the rajsjgHadrian, since we find one of them naxneu afharjfavourite Autinous. Others bore the names «f 1melidae, Kunostidae, &c, the origin of whicaflprobably be traced back to the first ft-uiidanafjthe Cumaean colony. From some of these SBsnjtions we learn that the Greek language routaossslbe u^ed there, even in public documents, aa !■the second century after the Christian era. (BoSaC. I. vol. iii. pp. 714—750; Moaims^n, JlRoan. Neap. pp. 127—131.) COIN OF NEA 1*0103 IS CAMFAJCIA. 2. (.V(fW),a city of Sardinia, and aprstrrotlysjthe most considerable places in that Uland, wna iatcd on the \V. coast, at the southern citrons'