OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 97 7- So when Zorobabel had left off his discourse about truth,and the multitude had cried out aloud that he had spoken themost wisely, and that it was truth alone that had immutablestrength, and such as never would wax old, the king commanded,that he should ask for somewhat over and above what he hadpromised, for that he would give it him because of his wisdom,and that prudence wherein he exceeded the rest; and thou shaltsit with me, said the king, and shalt be called my cousin. Whenhe had said this, Zorobabel put him in mind of the vow he hadmade in case he should ever have the kingdom. Now this vowwas, " to rebuild Jerusalem, and to build therein the temple ot"God; as also to restore the vessels which Nebuchadnezzar had"pillaged, and carried to Babylon." And this, said he, is thatrequest which thou now permittest me to make, on account thatI have been judged to be wise, and understanding: 8. So the king was pleased with what he had said, and aroseand kissed him; and wrote to the toparchs, and governors, andenjoined them to conduct Zorobabel and those that were goingwith him to build the temple. He also sent letters to those rul­ers that were in Syria and Phenicia to cut down and carry cedartrees from Lebanon to Jerusalem, and to assist him in buildingthe city. He also wrote to them, that all the captives who shouldgo to Judea should be free; and he prohibited his deputies andgovernors to lay any king's taxes upon the Jews; he also per­mitted, that they should have all that land which they could pos­sess themselves of without tributes. He also enjoined the Idu-means and Samaritans, and the inhabitants of Celesyria, to restorevillages which they had taken from the Jews; and that besidesall this, fifty talents should be given them for the building of thetemple. He also permitted them to offer their appointed sacri­fices, and that whatsoever the high priest and the priests wanted,and those sacred garments wherein they used to worship God, three of the king's guard themselves: and even the mighty rewards are spo­ken of as proposed by themselves, and the speeches are related to have beendelivered by themselves to the king in writing, while all is contrary in Josephus.I need not say whose account is the most probable, the matters speak for them­selves; and there can be no doubt but Josephus' history is here to be rery muchpreferred before the other. Nor indeed does it seem to me at all unlikely, that the'whole was a contrivance of king Darius* own, in order to be decently and inoffen­sively put in mind by Zorobabel, of fulfilling his old vow for the rebuilding of Je­rusalem and the temple, and the restoration of the worship of the ONE TRUE GODthere. Nor does the full meaning of Zorobabel, when he cries out, 3 Esdras iv. 4O.'* Blessed" be the God of truth;'* and here " God is true and righteous," oreven of all the people, 5" Esdras iv. 41. "Great is truth, and mighty above allthings," seem to nw much different from this, "There is hut ONE TRUE GOD,"the God of Israel. To which doctrine, such as Cyrus, and Darius, &c. the Jews*great patrons, seem not to have been very averse, though the entire idolatry of theirkingdoms made them generally conceal it.