OCR Output NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. 409 Bee is throughout the long wars of the Republic.(Pol. i. 20; Lit. un. 16.) Though Neapolis thus passed gradually into thecondition of a mere provincial town of the Romanstale, and, after the passing of the Lex Julia, becamean ordinary municipal town (Cic pro Balb. 8, adFam. xiii. 30), it continued to be a flourishing andpopulous place, and retained, to a far greater extentthan any other city in this part of Italy, its Greekculture and institutions; while its population wasstill almost exclusively Greek. Thus Strabo tellsus that, in bis time, though they had become Romancitizens, they still had their gymnasia and quin­quennial games, with contests of music and gym­nastic exercises after the Greek fashion; and retainedthe division into Phratries, a circumstance attestedal*> bv inscriptions still extant- (Strab. v. p. 246;Xvr.'L.L. v. 85; Boeckh, C. I. vol. iii. p. 715.)Before the close of the Republic,the increasing love ofGreek manners and literature led many of the upperdashes among the Romans to resort to Neapolis foreducation, or cultivation of these pursuits; whileniany more were attracted by the delightful and luxu­rious climate or the surpassing beauty of the scenery.It possessed also hot springs, similar to those ofBajae. though inferior in number (Strab. 7. c); andall these causes combined to render it one of thefavrmrite resorts of the Roman nobility. Its pros­perity received a rude shock, in B. c. 82, during theCivil War of Minus and Sulla, when a body of thepartisans of the latter, having been admitted bytreachery into the city, made a general massacre ofthe inhabitants (Appiau, B. C. i. 89); but it seemsto have quickly recovered this blow, as it was cer­tainly a flourishing city in the time of Cicero, andcontinued such throughout the period of the RomanEmpire. It is not improbable that it received aholy of fresh colonists under Sulla, but certainlydi 1 not then assume the title of a Colonia, as it isrepeatedly alluded to by Cicero as a Municipium.(Cic ad Fan. xiii. 30, ad Alt. x. 13.) Under theEmpire we find it in inscriptions bearing the title ofa Colonia (Gruter, Inter, p. 110. 8, p. 373. 2);but there is much doubt as to the period when itobtained that rank. It is, however, noticed as suchby Petronius, and would seem to have first receiveda colony under Claudius, to which subsequent addi­tions were made under Titus and the Antonines.(Lib Colon, p. 235; Zumpt, de Colon, pp. 259,384: Petron. Satyr. 44, 76; Boeckh, C. I. voL iii.jp.717,'718.) Besides its immediate territory, Neapolis hadformerly possessed the two important islands of Ca-prrae and Aenaria (Itdiiti); but the latter had beenwrested from it by force of arms, probably at theperi'd of its first war with Rome. Capreae, on theother hand, continued subject to Neapolis withoutinterruption till the time of Augustus, who, havingtaken a fancy to the island, annexed it to the impe­rial domain, giving up to the Neapolitans in ex­change the richer and more important island ofAnuria. (Suet. Aug. 92; Dion Cass. Hi. 43.) The same attractions which had rendered Neapolisa favourite residence of wealthy Romans under theIVpuMic operated with still increased force under theEmpire. Its gymnasia and public games continuedto be still celebrated, and the emperors themselvescorj|»cended to preside at them. (Suet yl tio\ 98.Srr. 40; Veil. Pat. ii. 123; Dion Cass, lxiii. 26.)Its ►trong tincture of Greek manners, which causedU to be frequently distinguished as "the Greek city," attracted thither many grammarians andothers; so that it came to acquire a reputation forlearning, and is called by Martial and Columella"docta Parthenope" (Martial, v. 78. 14; Colum.x. 134); while its soft and luxurious climate renderedit the favourite resort of the indolent and effeminate.Hence Horace terms it " otiosa Neapolis;" and Ovid,still more strongly, "in otia natam Parthenopen."(Hor. Epod. 5. 43; Ovid, Met. xv. 711; Stat Sib.iii. 78—88; Sil. Ital. xii. 31.) The coasts on bothsides of it were lined with villas, among which themost celebrated was that of Vedius Pollio, on theridge of hill between Neapolis and Puteoli, to whichhe had given the name of Pausilvpus (naualAvros);an appellation afterwards extended to the whole hillon which it stood, and which retains to the presentday the name of Monte PosUipo. (Dion Cass. liv.23; Plin. ix. 53. s. 78.) Neapolis was a favouriteresidence of the emperor Nero, as well as of his pre­decessor Claudius; and it was in the theatre therethat the former made his first appearance on thestage, before he ventured to do so publicly at Rome.(Tac. Ann. xiv. 10, xv. 33; Dion Cass. Ix. 6.) Itis well known also that it was for a considerableperiod the residence of Virgil, who composed, or atleast finished, his Georgics there. (Virg. Georg. iv.564.) Thither, also, his remains were transferredafter his death; and his tomb was still extant therein the time of the poets Statins and Silius Italicus,who paid to it an almost superstitious reverence.The last-named poet himself died at Neapolis, wherehe bad a villa, which was his favourite place of resi­dence, as it was also that of Statius, who, in severalpassages, appears to allude to it as the place of hisbirth. (Donat I'it. Virg.'; Plin. Ep. iii. 7; Mar­tial, xi. 49; Stat. Silv. iii. 5. 13, iv. 4. 51—55.) It is clear that Neapolis was at this period a pro­vincial city of the first class; and though we meetwith little historical mention of it during the laterages of the Empire, inscriptions sufficiently provethat it retained its consideration and importance.It appears to have escaped the ravages of the Gothsand Vandals, which inflicted such severe blows uponthe prosperity both of Capua and Nola (But. Mis-cell, xv. p. 553); and under the Gothic king The-odoric, Cassiodorus speaks of it as still possessing anumerous population, and abounding in every kindof delight, both by sea and land. (Cassiod. Var. vi.23.) In the Gothic wars which followed, it wastaken by Belisarius, after a long Biege, and a greatpart of the inhabitants put to the sword, A. i>. 536.(Procop. B. G. i. 8—10.) It was retaken by To-tila in A. D. 542 (lb. iii. 6—8), but again recoveredby Narses soon after, and continued from this timesubject to the supremacy of the Byzantine Empire,as a dependency of the exarchate of Ravenna, butunder the government of its own dukes. In theeighth century Paulus Diaconus still speaks of it asone of the "opulentissimae urbes" of Campania.(Ui»t. Lang. ii. 17.) It was about this period thatit threw off the yoke of the Byzantine emperors, andcontinued to enjoy a state of virtual independence,until it was conquered in A. D. 1140 by the Normans,and became thenceforth the capital of the kingdomof Naples. It is certain that the ancient city of Neapolis didnot occupy nearly so great a space as the modernNaples, which is the largest and most populous cityin Italy, and contains above 400,0(10 inhabitants.It appears to have extended on the E. as far as theriver Sebethus, a small stream still called the Sebeto,