OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPH^S. 211 the practices of their country ; but if, besides these, they shouldsay, they loved me because I was a priest, they should reply,that two of these were priests also. 40. Now, when they had given Jonathan and his companionsthese instructions, they gave them forty thousand [drachmae]out of the public money : but when they heard that there wasa certain Galilean that then sojourned at Jerusalem, whose namewas Jesus, who had about him a band of six hundred armed men,they sent for him, and gave him three month's pay, and gavehim orders to follow Jonathan and his companions, and be obe足dient to them. They also gave money to three hundred menthat were citizens of Jerusalem, to maintain them all, and order足ed them also to follow the ambassadors ; and when they hadcomplied, and were gotten ready for the march, Jonathan and hiscompanions went out with them, having along with them John'sbrother, and an hundred armed men. The charge that wasgiven them by those that Sent them was this, that if I wouldvoluntarily lay down my arms, they should send me alive to thecity Jerusalem, but that, in case I opposed them, they should killme, and fear nothing ; for that it was their command for themso to do. They also wrote to John to make all ready for fight足ing me, and gave order to the inhabitants of Sepphoris and Ga-bara, and Tiberias, to send auxiliaries to John. 41. Now, as my father wrote me an account of this, (forJesus the son of Gamala, who was present in that council, afriend and companion of mine, told him of it), I was very muchtroubled, as discovering thereby, that my fellow-citizens pro足ved so ungrateful to me, as, out of envy, to give order that Ishould be slain ; my father earnestly pressed me also in his letterto come to him, for that he longed to see his son before he died.I informed my friends of these things, and that in three daystime I should leave the country, and go home. Upon hearingthis, they were all very sorry, and desired me, with tears in theireyes, not to leave them to be destroyed; for so they thoughtthey should be, if I were deprived of the command over them :but as I did not grant their request, but was taking care of myown safety, the Galileans, out of their dread of the consequenceof my departure, that they should then be at the mercy of therobbers, sent messengers over all Galilee to inform them of myresolution to leave them. Whereupon, as soon as they heard it,they got together in great numbers, from ail parts, with theirwives and children ; and this they did, as it appeared to me, notmore out of their affection to me, than out of their fear on theirown account; for, while I staid with them, they supposed thatthey should suffer no harm. So they all came into the great.plain, wherein I lived, the name of which was AsoMs.VOL. III. E e 42. But