OCR Output Chap. V.] THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. 187 Of more importance than these measures of revenge was Mariusthe question how the dangerous war beyond the Alps was commandvrto be further carried on, and first of all to whom the su- m"chie*. now inform us, that a law proposed by Lucius Appuleius Saturninusbrought about this catastrophe. This is evidently no other than the Appuleianlaw as to the minuta majestas of the Korean state (Cic. de Or. ii. 25, 107;49, 201), i. e. the proposal of Saturninus for the appointment of an extraordi­nary commission to investigate the treasons that had taken place during theCimbrian troubles. The commission of inquiry as to the gold of Tolosa (Cic.de N. D. iii. 30, 74), arose out of the Appuleian law, in the very same waj- asthe special courts of inquiry—further mentioned in that passage—as to a scan­dalous bribery of judges out of the Mucian law of 613, as to the occurrences 141.with the Vestals out of the Peducaean law of 641, and as to the Jugurthine war H'3.out of the Mamilian law of 644. A comparison of these cases also shows that 110.in such special commissions—different in this respect from the ordinary ones—even punishments affecting life and limb might be and were inflicted. Thefact that elsewhere the tribune of the people, Gaius Norbanus, is named as theperson who set agoing the proceedings against Caipio and was afterwardsbrought to trial for doing so (Cic. de Or. ii. 40, 167; 48, 199; 49, 200;Or. Part. 30,105, et al.) is not inconsistent with the view given above; forthe proposal proceeded as usual from several tribunes of the people (ad Herenn.i. 14, 24 ; Cic. de Or. ii. 47, 197), and, as Saturninus was already dead whenthe aristocratic party was in a position to think of retaliation, they fastenedon his colleague. As to the period of this second and final condemnation ofCsepio, the usual very inconsiderate hypothesis, which places it in 659, ten 95. years after the battle of Arausio, has been already rejected. It rests simply onthe fact that Crassus when consul, consequently in 659, spoke in favour of Caepio 95,(Cic. Brut. 44, 162) ; which, however, he manifestly did not as his advocate,but on the occasion when Norbanus was brought to account by Publins SulpiciusRufus for his conduct toward Caepio in 659. Formerly we placed this second 95.accusation in 650; now that we know that it originated from a proposal of 94.Saturninus, we can only hesitate between 651, when he was tribune of the 103.people for the first time (Plutarch, Mar. 14; Oros. v. 17 ; App. i. 28; Diodor.p. 608, 631), and 654, when he held that office a second time. There are not 100.materials for deciding the point certainly, but the great preponderance of pro­bability is in favour of the former year; partly because it was nearer to thedisastrous events in Gaul, partly because in the tolerably full accounts of thesecond tribunate of Saturninus there is no mention of Quintus Caepio thefather and the acts of violence directed against him. The circumstance, thatthe sums paid back to the treasury in consequence of the decisions as to theembezzlement of the Tolosan booty were claimed by Saturninus in his secondtribunate for his schemes of colonization (De Viris III. 73, 5, and thereonOrelli, Ind. Leg. p. 137), is not in itself decisive, and may, moreover, havebeen easily transferred by mistake from the first African to the second generalagrarian law of Saturninus. The fact that afterwards, when Norbanus was impeached, his impeachmentproceeded on the very ground of the law which he had taken part in suggest­ing, was an ironical incident common in the Roman political procedure of thisperiod (Cic. Brut. 89, 305) and should not mislead us into the belief thatthe Appuleian law was, like the later Cornelian, a general law of high treason.