OCR Output LIVY. Cneius Fulvius. This temptation not inducing anyone to stir from his station, one of the herdsmen, ad­vancing close to the works, called out that others weredriving out those cattle at their leisure from the ruinsof the town ; why did they remain idle, when theymight safely drive them through the middle of the Ro­man camp ? This being interpreted to the lieutenant-general by some natives of Csere, and great impatienceprevailing through every company of the soldiers,who, nevertheless, dared not to move without orders,he commanded some who were skilled in the languageto observe attentively whether the dialect of theherdsmen resembled that of rustics or of citizens:these reported that their accent in speaking, theirmanner and appearance, were all of a more polishedcast than suited such description of persons. ' Gothen,' said he, ' tell them that they may uncover theambush which they vainly conceal; that the Romansunderstand all their devices, and can now be no moretaken by stratagem than they can be conquered byarms.' When these words were heard, and carried tothose who lay in ambush, they immediately arose fromtheir lurking place, and marched out in order into theplain, which was open to view on every side. Thelieutenant-general, thinking their force too powerfulfor his small band to cope with, sent in haste to Vale­rius for support, and in the mean time, by himself,sustained the enemy's onset. 5. On receiving his message, the dictator orderedthe standards to move, and the troops to follow inarms. But every thing was executed more quickly,almost, than ordered. The men in an instant snatchedup their standards, and were with difficulty restrainedfrom running impetuously on, being stimulated bothby indignation at their late defeat, and by the shoutsstriking their ears with increasing vehemence as thecontest grew hotter. They therefore urged each other,and pressed the standard bearers to quicken theirpace. The dictator, the more eagerly he saw thempush forward, took the more pains to repress their