OCR Output CHAP. L, 337 exalted him above the rest of his countrymen,rf Ah' might justify his claim to the vacant throne ofArabia. The son of Abu Taleb was, in his own right,the chief of the family of Hashem, and the hereditaryprince or guardian of the city and temple of Mecca. Thelight of prophecy was extinct; but the husband of Fatimamight expect the inheritance and blessing of her father:the Arabs had sometimes been patient of a female reign;and the two grandsons of the prophet had often beenfondled in his lap, and shewn in his pulpit, as the hopeof his age, and the chief of the youth of paradise. Thefirst of the true believers might aspire to march beforethem in this world and in the next; and if some wereof a graver and more rigid cast, the zeal and virtue of Aliwere never out-stripped by any recent proselyte. Heunited the qualifications of a poet, a soldier, and a saint:his wisdom still breathes in a collection of moral and re足ligious sayings ;f and every antagonist, in the combats ofthe tongue or of the sword, was subdued by his eloquence and valour. From the first hour of his missionto the last rites of his funeral, the apostle was never forsaken by a generous friend, whom he delighted to namehis brother, his vicegerent, and the faithful Aaron of asecond Moses. The son of Abu Taleb was afterward re足proached for neglecting to secure his interest by a solemndeclaration of his right, which would have silenced allcompetition, and sealed his succession by the decrees ofheaven. But the unsuspecting hero confided in himself;the jealousy of empire, and perhaps the fear of opposition,might suspend the resolutions of Mahomet; and the bedof sickness was besieged by the artful Ayesha, thedaughter of Abubeker, and the enemy of Ali. 'Ockley (at the end of his second volume) has riven an English version of onehundred and siity-nine sentences, which he ascribes, with some hesitation, toAli. the son of Aba Taleb. His preface is coloured by the enthusiasm of a trans足lator; vet these sentences delineate a characteristic, though dark, picture of hu足man life. VOL. VI . Z