OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 87 perious and unsociable nature, since the pride of one man requiresthe submission of the multitude. In the tumult of civil discord,the laws of society lose their force, and their place is seldom sup*plied by those of humanity. The ardor of contention, the pride ofvictory, the despair of success, the memory of past injuries, andthe fear of future dangers, all contribute to inflame the mind, and tosilence the voice of pity. From such motives almost every page ofhistory has been stained with civil blood; but these motives willnot account for the unprovoked cruelties of Commodus, who hadnothing to wish, and every thing to enjoy. The beloved son of a. D. 18a.Marcus succeeded to his father, amidst the acclamations of the se­nate and armies 6, and when he ascended the throne, the happyyouth saw round him neither competitor to remove, nor enemies topunish. In this calm elevated station, it was surely natural, that heshould prefer the love of mankind to their detestation, the mildglories of his five predecessors, to the ignominious fate of Nero andDomitian. Yet Commodus was not, as he has been represented, a tiger born character ofwith an insatiate thirst of human blood, and capable, from his Commodau-infancy, of the most, inhuman actions 7. Nature had formed himof a weak, rather than a wicked disposition. His simplicity andtimidity rendered him the slave of his attendants, who graduallycorrupted his mind. His cruelty, which at first obeyed the dictatesof others, degenerated into habit, and at length became the rulingpassion of the foul8. Upon the death of his father, Commodus found himself em- He returns tan*barrassed with the command.of a great army, and the conduct of a Romf''difficult war9. The servile and profligate youth's whom Marcus hadbanished, soon regained their station and influence about the newemperor. They exaggerated the hardships and dangers of a cam­paign in the wild countries beyond the Danube; and they assuredthe indolent prince, that the terror of his name and the arms of his6 lieutenants*.