OCR Output a*. 1096] 223 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tines sending after them those that threwjavelins and shot arrows, he lost all his com­pany, except a few. As for himself he foughtwith great bravery; and when he had re­ceived so many wounds, that he was unableto bear up, or to oppose any longer, and yetwas not able to kill himself; he bade hisarmour-bearer draw his sword, and run himthrough, before the enemy should take himalive. But his armour-bearer not daring tokill his master, he drew his own sword, andplacing himself over against its point, hethrew himself upon it; and when he couldneither run it through him, nor, by leaningagainst it, make the sword pass through him;he turned round, and asked a certain youngman that stood by, who he was? and whenhe understood that he was an Amalekite, hedesired him to force the sword through him;because he was not able to do it with his ownhands, and thereby to procure him such adeath as he desired. 1 his the young mandid accordingly; and he took the goldenbracelet that was on Saul's arm, and his royalcrown that was on his head, and ran away.And when Saul's armour-bearer saw that hewas slain, he killed himself. Nor did any ofthe king's guards escape; but they all fellupon the mountain Gilboa. But when thoseHebrews that dwelt in the valley, beyondJordan, and those who had their cities in theplain, heard that Saul and his sons werefallen, and that the multitude about themwere destroyed; they left their own cities,and fled to such as were best fortified. Andthe Philistines finding those cities deserted,came and dwelt in them. On the next day, when the Philistines cameto strip their enemies that were slain; they got the bodies of Saul, and of his sons, andstripped them, and cut off their heads. Andthey sent messengers all about their country,to acquaint them that their enemies werefallen. And they dedicated their armour inthe temple of Astarte; but hung their bodieson crosses, at the walls of the city of Beth-shan; which is now called Scythopolis. Butwhen the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heardthat they had dismembered the dead bodiesof Saul, and of his sons, they deemed it sohorrid a thing to overlook this barbarity, andto suffer them to be without funeral rights,that the most courageous and hardy amongthem; (and indeed that city had in it menthat were very stout, both in body and mind,)journeyed all night, and came to Bethshan,and approached the enemies' wall, and takingdown the bodies of Saul, and of his sons, theycarried them to Jabesh; while the enemywere neither powerful, nor bold enough tohinder them, because of their great courage.So the people of Jabesh wept all in general,and buried their bodies in the best place intheir country, which was named Aroura; andthey observed a public mourning for themseven days, with their wives and children;beating their breasts, and lamenting the kingand his sons without either tasting drink ormeat,* till the evening. To this end did Saul come, according to theprophecy of Samuel; because he disobeyedthe commandments of God,f about the Amale-kites, and on the account of his destroyingthe family of Ahimelech, the high-priest, withAhimelech himself, and the city of the high-priests. Now Saul, when he had reigned eigh­teen years,J while Samuel was alive, and afterhis death two, ended his life in this manner. * This way of speaking in Josephus, of fasting seven(1 lys, without meat or drink, is almost like that of St.Paul's, Acts xzvii. 33. "This day is the fourteenth daythat ye have tarried, and continued fasting, having takennothing;" and as the nature of the thing, and the impos­sibility of strictly fasting so long, require us here to un­derstand both Josephus, and the sacred author of thishistory, 1 Sam. xxxi. 13. from whom he took it, of onlyfasting till the evening; so must we understand St. Paul,either that this was really the fourteenth day that theyhad taken nothing till the evening, or else that this wasthe fourteenth day of their tempestuous weather in the Adriatic sea, as verse 27, and that on this fourteenth dajalone they had continued fasting, and had takon nothingbefore the evening. The mention of their long absti­nence, verse 21, inclines me to believe the former ex­plication to be the truth, and that the case was then for afortnight, what it was here for a week, that they kept allthose days entirely as fasts till the evening, but notlonger. See Judg. xx. 26. xxi. 2. 1 Sam. xiv. 24. 2 Sam,i. 12. Antiq. VII. 7. t 1 Chron. x. 13. ^ % From an. 1114 to 1096 B. C.