OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII. 19 shall choose to devote himself as Decius did, then ' ifhe who devotes himself die not, he shall not be capa­ble of performing with propriety any act of worshipin behalf either of himself or of the public. Let himhave a right to devote his arms to Vulcan, or to anyother god, he shall do it, either by a victim, or in anyother mode. The enemy should, if possible, be hin­dered from getting possession of the weapon on whichthe consul stood when he uttered his imprecation : butif they chance to attain it, an atonement must be madeto Mars by the sacrifices called Suovetaurilia.' Al­though the memory of every divine and human ritehas been obliterated through the preference given towhat is new and foreign, above that which is ancientand the growth of our own country, yet I thought itnot amiss to recite these particulars as they have beentransmitted to us, and even in the very words in whichthey were expressed. 11. Several authors relate that the Samnites, havingwaited to see the issue of the fight, came up, at length,with support to the Romans, after the battle wasended. In like manner a reinforcement from Lavi-nium, after wasting time in deliberation, set out to theaid of the Latines, after they had been vanquished ;and when the first standards and part of the army hadpassed the gates, receiving information of the over­throw of the Latines, they faced about and returned tothe city ; on which their pretor, named Millionius, isreported to have said, that ' a high price must be paidto the Romans for so short a journey.' Such of theLatines as survived the fight, after being scatteredthrough different roads, collected themselves in abody and took refuge in the city of Vescia. Theretheir general Numisius insisted,.in their meetings,that ' the variable chances of war had ruined botharmies, by equal losses, and that the name only of vic­tory was on the side of the Romans; and that theywere, in fact, no better than defeated. The two pa­vilions of their consuls were polluted ; one by theparricide committed on a son; the other by the death