OCR Output AN. 1030.] 289 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to light. Menander also, one who translatedthe Tyrian archives out of the dialect of thePhoenicians into the Greek language, makesmention of these two kings, where he says:"When Abibalus was dead, his son Hiramreceived the kingdom from him: who whenhe had lived fifty-three years, reigned thirty-four. He raised a bank in a large place, anddedicated the golden pillar which is in Ju­piter's temple. He also went and cut downmaterials of timber out of the mountain calledLi ban us, for the roofs of temples: and whenhe had pulled down the ancient temples, heboth built the temple of Hercules, and thatof Astarte; and he first set up the templeof Hercules in the Peritius; he also madean expedition against the Euchii or *Titii,who did not pay their tribute; and when hehad subdued them to himself he returned.Under this king there was Abdemon, a youthin age; who always conquered the difficult {>roblems which Solomon king of Jerusa-em commanded him to explain." Diusalso made mention of him, where he says,"When Abibalus was dead, his son Hiramreigned. He raised the eastern parts of thecity higher, and made the city itself larger.He also joined the temple of Jupiter, whichbefore stood by itself, to the city, by raisinga bank in the middle between them; and headorned it with donations of gold. More­over he went up to mount Libanus, and cutdown materials of wood for the building ofthe temples.*' He says also, that "Solomon,who was then king of Jerusalem, sent rid­dles to Hiram, and desired to receive thelike from him; but that he who could notsolve them should pay money to him thatdid solve them; and that Hiram acceptedthe conditions, and when he was not able tosolve the riddles, he paid a great deal ofmoney for his fine. But that he afterwarddid solve the proposed riddles by the meansof Abdemon, a man of Tyre: and that Hiramproposed other riddles; which when Solo­mon could not solve, he paid back a greatdeal of money to Hiram." This is it whichDius wrote. CHAP. VI. OF THE FORTIFICATIONS OF JERUSALEM, THE ERECTIONOF THE OTHER CITIES BY SOLOMON J HIS SUBJUGATIONOF SOME OF THE CANAANITES, AND HIS ENTERTAINMENTOF THE QUEEN OF EGYPT AND ETHI0TIA. NOWf when the king saw that the wallsof Jerusalem stood in need of beingbetter secured, and made stronger; (for hethought the walls that encompassed Jerusa­lem ought to correspond with the dignity ofthe city;) he both repaired them and madethem higher, with great towers upon them:he also built cities which might be countedamong the strongest, Hazor and Megiddo,and the third Gezer; which had indeed be­longed to the Philistines; but Pharaoh, theking of Egypt, had made an expeditionagainst it, and besieged it, and taken it byforce; when he had slain all its inhabitants,he utterly overthrew it, and gave it as apresent to his daughter, who had been mar­ried to Solomon. For this reason the kingrebuilt it, as a city that was naturally strong,and might be useful in wars, and the muta­tions of affairs that sometimes happen. More­over he built two other cities not far from it;Beth-horon was the name of one of them, andBaalath of the other. He also built othercities that lay conveniently for these, in orderto the enjoyment of pleasures and delicaciesin them; such as were naturally of good tem­perature of the air, and agreeable for fruitsripe in their proper seasons, and well wateredwith springs. Nay, Solomon went as far asthe desert above Syria, and possessed himselfof it, and built there a very large city, whichwas distant two days' journey from the upperSyria, and one day's journey from Euphrates,and six long days' journey from Babylon thegreat. Now the reason why this city lay soremote from the parts of Syria that are inha­bited is this, that below there is no water tobe had; and that it is in that place only thatthere are springs and pits of water. Whenhe had therefore built this city, and encom­passed it with very strong walls, he gave itthe name of Tadmor: J and that is the name * Pr bably the Tyrians. t About an. 1025. J Tadmor, which, by the Greeks, is called Palmyra,is situated in the wilderness of Syria, upon the bordersof Arabia Deserta, inclining towards the Euphrates. Jo- sephus places it two days' journey from the upper Syria,one day's journey from the Euphrates, and six days'journey from Babylon: and the reason he gives why So­lomon was inclined to build a city in this place, was, be­cause in all the country round about, there was no such