OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 739- tarb hint; outride of that gate, to the E. of the:t* of Astoaimu. It contained 10 Vici, and>** its principal objects were, the temple ofm, tbt arch of Droso>. and the sepulchre of theRegio //.. or Caelimumtana, lay to therf this and comprehended the whole extent of theEoaa hill. It had 7 Vici, and among its monu-t!« nay be mentioned the A reus Dolabellac and ■ sqacdoct of Nero. Regio III., called I sis andvpu, Lay to the N. of the Caelimontana, andarieei the ralley of the Colosseum, and thatiW« portion of the Esquiline anciently knownM<a» Oppu*. H comprehended 12 Vici, and itsr-.jaJ objects were the baths of Titus and therun amphitheatre or Colosseum. Regio IV.,«I Tempimm Pacts and Sacra Via, was situatedW W. at* that of Isis and Serspis, and compre- - : the Vehan ridge and the greater part of there heflu the Palatine, Escjniline, Viminal, <£xmaai, to the exclusion, however, of that'to portion which lay immediately under theitutac. Vet it embraced the buildings on thefife of* the forum, including the temple of •--». thr Basilica Paulli, and the Area Vul-l Its east em boundary ran close to the Colos-n, tone* is incladed the Colossus and the MetaKm. both which objects stood very near that build-la principal monuments, besides those alreadytj2*vL, were the temple of Venus and Rome,u» baulica of Cons tan tine. It embraced theurn, the gieatei portion of the Sacra Via, andF«vd Tran&itorium, and contained 8 Vici.a r_ or /.-,■-. , -w/". included the northern por-•f Inst Evjuiline (Mons Cispius) and tlie Vi-l he>ain a east tract of suburbs lying to thesf the Servian walls and agger. Thus it ex-H w tar as to embrace the AmphitheatrnmBsa, which adjoins the modern clmrch of S. m Oermsaiemme. and the so-called temple ofW Heilica, near the Porta Maggiore. It hadsad anxjng its remaining principal objects It* gardens «>f Maecenas, the arch of Gallienus,ca NyTT phaenim of Alexander Severus. Regioeai'rd Alta Semita, embraced the Quirinal, andtM to the E. so as to include the Praetorianl It had 17 Vici, and its chief objects weresstaa mf Diocletian, the house and gardens ofat. and the ancient Capitol. Regio VII., orLsCmx vas bounded on the E. by the Quirinal,» X. wf the Pincian, on the S. by the Serviansriai the Quirinal and Capitoline, and on theJ tea road called Via Lata till it joined the Via ■ i ■ point which cannot be accurately asoer-t The Yis Lata was the southern portion ofksoera Cormo, and probably extended to the N.* a* *ar aa the Antonine column. The Regionntanaad 15 Vici. Being without the Servian aart af this district was anciently a burying wad the tomb of Bi bolus is still extant.I V111^ or forum Roman urn Magnum, was'rW Mat important and populous in Koine,•carat bnun obtained the name of " Magnuin"ta* vaAixnr of tliat of Caesar. (Dion Cass.'il i This Kepi mi, which formed the centralof aS the rest, embraced not only the ancient «-xrept Use baaldings cn its N. side, but alsoprrsaj fersw tbe Capitoline hill, and the valley•a it aad the Palatine as far as the Velabrum.tevd 34 Wi, among which were the denselyk**J ones Japan us And Tascus. The monu- 3 tits* district are so numerous and well known that it is unnecessary to specify them.Regio IX, called Circus Flamimus, comprehendedthe district lying between the Via Lata on the K.,the Tiber on the W., the Capitoline hill and Servianwall on the S.; whilst on the N. it seems to haveextended as far as the present Piazza Navona andPiazza Colonna. It contained 35 Vici, and amongits objects of interest may be named the circus fromwhich it derived its name, the three theatres ofliulbus, Pompey, and Marcel I us, the Pantheon, undmany other celebrated monuments. The CampusMarti us, or northern jart of the urea betweentbe hills and the Tiber, was not comprehended in.any of the 14 Regions. Regio X., or Palatiuui,consisted of the Palatine hill and its declivities. Ithud 20 Vici. Its boundaries are so well markedthat we need not mention its numerous and well-known monuments till we come to describe itstopography. Regio XI., or Circus Maximus, de­rived its name from the circus, which occupied thegreater part of it. It comprehended the vall*y be­tween the Palatine and Avcntine, and also appa­rel illy the northern declivities of the hitter hill, usfar as the Porta Trigeminy On the N., where itmet the Region of the Forum Romanum, it seems tohave included tbe Velabrum. It contained ID Viciaccording to tbe Notitia, 21 according to the Curio-sum, Regio XII,, called Piscina Publico, wasbounded on the \V. by the Avcntine, on the N. bythe Caelian, on the E. by Regio I. or Porta Capena,and on the S. it probably extended to the line of thoAurelian walls. It had 17 Vici, and its most re­markable monument was the baths of Caracalla.Regio XIII,, or Aventinus, included that hill and.the adjoining banks of the Tiber. It had 17 Viciaccording to t\\? Xotitia, 18 according to the Curio-sum. Regio XIV., Transtiberina, or Transtibtriiit,comprehended all the suburb on the W., or lightbunk of the Tiber, including the Vatican, the Jm.i-culuin. with the dUtrict between them and the river,and the Insula Tiberina. This, therefore, was byfar the largest of all the Regions, and contained 7b"Vici. Municipal Regulations of Augustus.—All theseRegions were under the control of magistrates chosenannually by lot. (Suet. Aug. 30.) The govern­ment of the Regions was not corporative, liko thatof the Vici, but administrative; and one or moreRegions seem to have been intrusted to a singlemagistrate chosen among the aediles, tribunes, orpraetors. (Preller, Rcgionen, p. 77.) The su­preme administration, however, was vested in thePracfeetus Uibi. At a later period other officerswere interposed between the praefect and thesegovernors. Thus the lias is Capilolinn mentions aCurator and Denunciator in each Region, Subse­quently, however, the latter office seems to havebeen aUjli.-shed, and the Xotitia and Curiosuw men­tion two curators in each Region. There were alsosubordinate officers, such as praecones or criers, anda number of imperial slaves, or HU'itini, were ap­pointed to transact any necessary business concerningthe Regions. (Preller, p. 79.) One of the chief objects of Augustus in esta­blishing these Regions seems to have been con­nected with a reform of the city police. For thispurpose he established 7 Cohortes Vigilum, whosestations were so disposed that each cohort might beavailable for two Regions. Each was under thecommand of a tribune, and the whole was superin­tended by a Pracfectus Vigilum. (Suet. Aug. 30;