OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTTQtJITlES OF THE JEWS." 183 the law, he delivered them to be stoned : but as for those whoseemed the most equitable of the citizens, and such as were themost uneasy at the breach of the laws, they disliked what wasdone ; they also sent to the king, [Agrippa], desiring him to sendto Ananus that he should act so no more, for that what he hadalready done was not to be justified : nay *, some of them wentalso to meet Albinus, as he was upon his journey,from Alex­andria, and informed him, that it was not lawful for Ananusto assemble a sanhedrim without his consent. Whereupon Al­binus complied with what they said, and wrote in anger toAnanus, and threatened that he would bring him to punishmentfor what he had done ; on which king Agrippa took the high-priesthood from him, when he had ruled but three months, andmade Jesus, the son of Damneus, high-priest. 2. Now, as soon as Albinus was come to the city of Jerusalem,he used all his endeavours and care that the country might bekept in peace, and this by destroying many of the Sicarii. Butas for the high-priest Ananias f, he increased in glory every day,and this to a great degree, and had obtained the favour andesteem of the citi?.ens in a signal manner ; for he was a greathoarder up of money : he therefore cultivated the friendship ofAlbinus, and of the high-priest [Jesus], by making them pre­sents ; he also had servants who were very wicked, who joinedthemselves to the boldest sort of the' people, and went to thethreshing-floors, and took away the tithes that belonged to thepriests by violence, and did not refrain from beating such as wouldnot give these tithes to them. So the other high-priests acted inthe like manner, as did those his servants, without any one's beingable to prohibit them; so that [some of the] priests, that of old were * Of this condemnation of James the Just, and its causes, as also that he didnot die till long afterwards, see Prim. Christ. Revived, Vol. III. ch. 43.—46.The sanhedrim condemned our Saviour, but could not put him to deaih withoutthe approbation of the Roman procurator; nor could therefore Ananias andhis sanhedrim do more here, since they never had Albinus's approbation for theputting this James to death. t This Ananias was not the son of Nebedeus, as I take it, but he who wascalled Annas or Ananus the elder, the 9th in the catalogue, and who had beenesteemed high.priest for a long time; and besides, Caiaphas his son-in-law hadfive of his own sons high-priests after him, which were those of numbers 11, 14.15,. 17, 14, in the foregoing catalogue. Nor ought we to pass slightly over whatJosephus here says of Annas or Ananias, that he was high-priest a long time be­fore his children were so ; he was the son of Seth, and is set down first for high.priest in the foregoing catalogue, under number 9. He was made by Quirinus,and continued till Ismael, the loth in number, for about 23 years, which longduration of his high-priesthood, joined to the successions of his son-in-law, andfive children of his own, made him a sort of perpetual high-priest, and was pen.haps the occasion that former high-priests kept their titles ever afterwards i fa*! believe it is hardly met with before him.