OCR Output 140 [book IV ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. that this should be the day of my departure tothem, I return him thanks, while 1 am stillalive and present with you, for that provi­dence he hath exercised over you, which hathnot only delivered us from the miseries theylay under, but hath bestowed a state of pros­perity among us; as also that he hath assistedme in the pains I took, and in all the contri­vances I had in my care about you, in orderto better your condition; and hath on all oc­casions shewed himself favourable to us. Orrather he it was who first conducted our af­fairs, and brought them to a happy conclu­sion, by making use of me as a general un-,der him, and as a minister in those matterswherein he was willing to do you good. Onwhich accounts I think it proper to bless thatdivine power which will take care of you forthe time to come; and this in order to repaythat debt which I owe him; and to leave be­hind me a memorial that we are obliged toworship and honour him, and to keep thoselaws which are the most excellent gift of allthose he hath already bestowed upon us; orwhich, if he continue favourable to us, he willbestow upon us hereafter. Certainly, a hu­man legislator is a terrible enemy, when hislaws are affronted, and are made to no pur- Sose. And may you never experience thatispleasure of God, which will be the conse­quence of the neglect of those laws, which he,who is your Creator, hath given you." When Moses had spoken thus, at the endof his life, and had foretold what would be­fall* every one of their tribes afterward, withthe addition of a blessing to them, the multi­tude fell into tears; insomuch that even thewomen, by beating their breasts, evinced thedeep concern they had when he was aboutto die. The children also lamented still more,as not able to contain their grief; and therebydeclared that even at their age they weresensible of his virtue, and mighty deeds; and truly there seemed to be a strife between theyoung and the old, who should most grievefor him. The aged grieved, because theyknew what a careful protector they were tobe deprived of, and so lamented their futurestate; but the young grieved, not only forthat, but also because it so happened, thatthey were to be left by him before they hadwell tasted of his virtue. Now one may formsome idea of the excess of this sorrow and la­mentation of the multitude, from what hap­pened to the legislator himself. For althoughhe was always persuaded that he ought notto be cast down at the approach of death;since the undergoing it was agreeable to thewill of God, and the law of nature; yet whatthe people did, so affected him, that he wepthimself. Now as he went thence to the placewhere he was to vanish out of their sight,they all followed after him, weeping. ButMoses beckoned with his hand to those thatwere remote from him, and bid them stay be­hind in quiet; while he exhorted those thatwere near him, that they would not renderhis departure so lamentable. Whereuponthey thought it their duty to let him departaccording as he desired; so they restrainedthemselves, though weeping still towards oneanother. All those who accompanied himwere the senate, and Eleazar the high-priest,and Joshua their commander. Now as soonas they were come to the mountain calledAbarim, which is a very high mountain situ­ate over against Jericho, and one that affordsto such as are upon it a prospect of the great­est part of the excellent land of Canaan, hedismissed the senate; and, as he was goingto embrace Eleazar and Joshua, and was stilldiscoursing with them, a cloud suddenly over­shadowed him, and he disappeared, in a cer­tain valley;t although he wrote in the holybooks that he died; which was done out offear lest they should venture to say, that be­ * Since Josephus assures us here, as is most naturallyto be supposed, and as the Septuagint gives the text, Deut.xxxiii. 6, that Moses blessed every one of the tribes ofIsrael; it is evident that Simeon was not omitted in hiscopy, as it unhappily now is both in our Hebrew and Sa­maritan copies. t Deut. xrxiv. 6. But notwithstanding all this pre­caution of God, the Christians boast, that they have dis­covered the sepulchre, which had been kept secret for somany ages. For in the year 1655, some goats that wereseparated from the rest of the flock, went to feed in a cer- tain place, in the mountain Nebo, and returned from thenceso odoriferous and perfumed, that the shepherds, asto­nished at so wonderful a prodigy, ran presently to consultwith the patriarch of the Maronites, who sent "thither twomonks from mount Lebanon, and they discovered a monu­ment, on which was this inscription, Moses, the servant ofthe Lord. But there is too much reason to think that thisis all a fiction, on purpose to raise the reputation of theMaronites; as Basnage, in his History and Religion of theJews, has sufficiently proved, lib. 4. cap. 17. B.