OCR Output AN. 1104.] 207 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. a* goat's liver; and when her father, as soonas it was day, sent to seize David, she said tothose that were there, that he had not beenwell during that night; and shewed them thebed cover; and made them believe, by theleaping of the liver, which caused the bed­clothes to move also, that David breathedlike one that was asthmatic. So when thosethat were sent told Saul, that David had notbeen well in the night, he ordered him to bebrought in that condition; for he intended tokill him. Now when they came, and unco­vered the bed, and found out the woman'scontrivance, they told it to the king. Andwhen her father complained that she hadsaved his enemy and had put a trick uponhimself; she invented this plausible defence,and" said, that when he threatened to kill her,she lent him her assistance for his preser­vation, out of fear, for which assistance sheought to be forgiven, because it was not doneof her own free choice, but out of necessity."For," said she, " I do not suppose that thouwast so zealous to kill thy enemy, as thouwast that I should be saved." AccordinglySaul forgave the damsel. But David, whenhe had escaped his danger, came to the pro­phet Samuel, at Ramah, and told him whatsnares the king had laid for him; and howhe was very near to death by Saul throwinga spear at him; although he had been no wayguilty with relation to him; nor had he beencowardly in his battles with his enemies; buthad succeeded well in them all, by God'sassistance, which thing was indeed the causeof Saul's hatred to David. When the prophet was made acquaintedwith the unjust proceedings of the king, heleft the city Ramah, and took David with him, to a certain place called Naioth;t and therehe abode with him. But when it was toldSaul, that David was with the prophet, hesent soldiers to him, and ordered them to takehim, and bring him to him. And when theycame to Samuel, and found there a congre­gation of prophets, they became partakers ofthe Divine Spirit, and began to prophesy.Which when Saul heard of, he sent others toDavid, who prophesying in like mariner asdid the first, he again sent others; whichthird sort prophesying also, at last he wasangry, and went thither in great haste him­self. But when he was just by the place,Samuel, before he saw him, made him pro­phesy also. And when Saul came to him,}he was disordered in mind, and under thevehement agitation of a spirit; and|| puttingoff his garments, he fell down, and lay on theground all that day and night, in the presenceof Samuel and David. And David went thence, and came to Jona­than, the son of Saul, and lamented to himwhat snares were laid for him by his father,and said, that though he had been guilty ofno evil, nor had offended against him, yet hewas very zealous to get him killed. Here­upon Jonathan exhorted him not to give creditto such suspicions, nor to the calumnies ofthose that raised those reports, if there wereany that did so; but to depend on him, andtake courage; for that his father had no suchintentions; since he would have acquaintedhim with that matter, and take his advice,had it been so; as he used to consult withhim in common when he acted in other affairs.But David sware to him, that so it was; andhe desired him rather to believe him, and toprovide for his safety, than to despise what * Since the modern Jews have lost the signification ofthe Hebrew word here used, Cebir; and since the Septu-agint, as well as Josephus, render it the liver of the goat;and since this rendering, and Josephus's account are hereso much more clear and probable than those of others; itis most unaccountable that our commentators should hesi­tate about its true interpretation. t 1 Sam. xix. 18. J It seems that these violent agitations of Saul were noother than demoniacal; and that the same demon whichused to seize him, since he was forsaken of God, and whichthe divine hymns and psalms which were sung to the harpby David used to expel, was now in a judicial way broughtupon him; not only in order to disappoint his intentionsagainst innocent David, but to expose him to the contemptof all that saw him, or heard of his agitations; such violent and wild agitations being never observed in the true pro­phets, when they were under the inspiration of the Spiritof God. Our other copies, which say the Spirit of Godcame upon him, seem not so right here, as Josephus'scopy, which mentions nothing of God at all. Nor doesJosephus seem to ascribe this impulse and ecstacy of Saul'sto any other than his own demoniacal spirit; which on allaccounts appears the most probable. Nor does the formerdescription of Saul's real inspiration by the Divine Spirit,1 Sam. x. 9—12. Antiq. VI. 4. (which was before he wasbecome wicked,) well agree with the description before us.II What is meant by Saul's lying down naked all thatday, and all that night, 1 Sam. xix. 24. and whether anymore than his laying aside his royal apparel, or uppergarments, as Josephus seems to understand it, is by nomeans certain.