OCR Output discourse ii. xlvii which have poetry rather than history for their object; andcensures him for not delighting, when his profession wasonly to instruct. Mr. Hobbes hath gallantly defended hisauthor, and shewn all the arguments of Dionysius to beimpertinent, and to proceed from partiality and envy. Ishall not repeat, it will suffice to refer the curious reader towhat Mr. Hobbes hath written upon this topic. Homer hadcelebrated the Trojan war, and intermingled in his poems allthe historic strokes of that and of preceding ages, enliven­ing and exalting every thing he touched. That splendidpart of the Grecian history, in which his countrymen resist­ed and triumphed over the very formidable arms of the Per­sian monarch, had already been recorded by Herodotus.Should Thucydides plunge back into dark and fabulous ages,and turn a mere legendary and romantic writer ? He had,he could have no subject equal to his ambition and hisabilities, but the war, which broke out in his own days, whichhe foresaw would prove extensive and important, when theefforts of her enemies would be vigorously exerted to pulldown the power of Athens, to demolish that naval strengthwhich gave her the sovereignty of the sea, and made her thedread and envy of her neighbours. Coolly therefore withmy reason as an examiner of things, and warmly with mypassion as an Englishman, I cannot but applaud his choice,who hath projected the soundest and best system of Englishpolitics, so long before the constitution had existence; andhath left us fine lessons, such as his factious countrymenwould not observe, how to support that dominion of the sea,on which our glory is built, and on which our welfare in-tirely depends. In this light it is a most instructive and in­teresting history, and we may felicitate ourselves on thechoice of Thucydides. I must not anticipate : Thucydideswould have his readers pick out their own instructions. I canonly add, that Thucydides is a favourite historian with thestatesmen, and patriots of Great-Britain: This fits him alsoto be a Historian for the people. Other nations have ad­