OCR Output B. III. 267 TEAR. V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. of the malccontents within, and the hostile fleet approach­ing the city. They got sixty ships immediately on float,and each so fast as it was manned advanced to meet the foe.The Athenians indeed proposed, to put out first to sea them­selves ; and that the Corcyreans should afterwards comeout and join them, when they had got all their ships toge­ther. But, as they advanced in a straggling manner to­wards the enemy, two ships went directly over to them ; andon board others the mariners were at blows with one another.In short, there was no manner of order in any of their mo­tions. The Lacedaemonians, perceiving how it was, withtwenty of their ships drew up to engage the Corcyrdans, andopposed the remainder to the twelve Athenian, two of whichwere only the Salaminian and the Paralus. The Corcyrians, who charged in this disorderly manner,and with few ships in a line, were on their side terribly dis­tressed ; whilst the Athenians, fearing, lest the other, vastlysuperior in number, might quite surround their little squa­dron, would not venture to attack them when altogether, norto break upon the middle of the enemy's line ; but, assault­ing them towards one of the extremities, sink one of theirships. Upon this, the Peloponnesians having formed a cir­cle, the Athenians sailed round and round, and endeavouredto break their order. Those who pursued the Corcyreansperceiving this, and fearing what had happened formerly atNaupactus, steered away from thence to support their ownsquadron. And now, with their whole embodied strength,they designed to pour upon the Athenians. They, havingalready shifted the helm, fell gradually away. They weredesirous to favour the flight of the Corcyrtans beyond thepossibility of a chace, and so they fell off entirely at theirown leisure, keeping the enemy in their front still ranged inorder. Such was this engagement, which at the setting ofthe sun was quite ended. The Corcyreans were afraid lest the enemy, in prosecu­tion of their victory, shoidd immediately assault the city, or