OCR Output C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 29 they could not throw at the Romans from a higher place;for they then made sallies out of the city, like privaterobbers, by parties, and pulled away the hurdles that coveredthe workmen, and killed them when they were thus naked:and when those workmen gave way, these cast away the earththat composed the bank, and burnt the wooden parts of it,together with the hurdles, till at length Vespasian perceivedthat the intervals there were between the works were of dis­advantage to him; for those spaces of ground afforded theJews a place for assaulting the Romans. So he united thehurdles, and at the same time joined one part of the army tothe other, which prevented the private excursions of the Jews. 10. And when the bank was now raised, and broughtnearer than ever to the battlements that belonged to thewalls, Josephus thought it would be entirely wrong in him ifhe could make no contrivances in opposition to theirs, andthat might be for the city's preservation : so he got togetherhis workmen, and ordered them to build the wall higher : andwhen they said this was impossible to be done while so manydarts were thrown at them, he invented this sort of cover forthem: he bid them fix piles, and expand before them the rawhides of oxen, newly killed, that these hides, by yielding andhollowing themselves when the stones were thrown at them,might receive them ; for that the other darts would slide offthem, and the fire that was thrown would be quenched by themoisture that was in them: and these he set before the work­men ; and under them these workmen went on with theirworks in safety, and raised the wall higher, and that both byday and by night, till it was twenty cubits high. Ho alsobuilt a good number of towers upon the wall, and fitted to itstrong battlements. This greatly discouraged the Romans,who, in their own opinions, were already gotten within thewalls, while they were now at once astonished at Josephus'scontrivance, and at the fortitude of the citizens that were inthe city. 11. And now Vespasian was plainly irritated at the greatsubtilty of this stratagem, and at the boldness of the citizensof Jotapata; for taking heart again, upon the building of this 3*