OCR Output 808 ROMA. ROMA. Acdis Victorias is said to be not at the foot of tbcVelia, but on the summit of the Palatine. Hut there is another argument brought forwardsby Ciinina against the height in question being theVelia. He observes that the area on which thetemple of Venus and Rome stands is divided from thePalatine by the Sacra Via, and hence could not havebelonged to the Velia ; since the Sacra Via, andall the places on the opposite (northern) side of it,were comprehended in the 1st Regio of Servius, orthe Suburaua, whilst the Palatine, including theVelia, were contained in the 4th Regio (Indicax.Topogr. p. 462, cf.Foro Horn. p. 61). Now ifthis were so. it would certainly he a fatal objectionto Niebuhr's view; but we do not think that anysuch thing can he inferred from Varro's words. Indescribing the 1st Region, in which a place calledCeroliensis was included, he says, "Ceroliensis aCarinarum junctu dictns Carinae, pot tea Ccrolia,qufxl hinc oritur caput Sacrae Viae ab Streniae sa-cello," &c. (/,. L. v. § 47.) The passage is ob-hcnre, hut we do not sec how it can be inferred fromit that the Sacra Via formed the boundary betweenthe 1st and 4th Servian Regions. Varro seemsrather to be explaining the origin of the name Cero-lia, which lie connects with the Sacra Via, but ina manner which we cannot understand. The SacraVia traversed the highest part of the ridge, and thuson Canina's own showing must have included somepart of it in the 4th Region, making a divisionwhere no natural one is apparent, which is not at allprobable. Besides, if tin's height was not called Velia,what other name can be found for it? And it isnot at all likely that an eminence of this sort, whichis sufficiently marked, and lies in the very heart ofthe city, should have been without a name. Assuming the Velia, therefore, to have been thatrising ground which lies between the valley of theforum on the one hand, and that of the Colosseum onthe other, we shall proceed to describe its monuments.The AKDES 1'knatitm, before referred to as standingon the declivity of the ridge, or Sub Velia, and de­scribed by Dionysius (i. 68), seems to have beenone of the most venerable antiquity. In it were^ preserved the images of the household gods said tohave been brought from Troy, having upon them theinscription AENA2, which has given rise to so muchcontroversy ; namely, whether it is a scribe's errorfor IIENA2, that is riENA2I = Penatibus, or whe­ther it should have been AI2 MArNU (Diis Mag-nia), &c. &c. (Sec Ambrosch, Stud. u. Andeut. p.231, seq.; Clausen, Aniens u, die Petmtett, ii. p. 624,ii. 1116; HerUberg, de Diis AW. Patriis, lib. ii.c. 18.) We shall here follow our usual rule, andgive l)ionysius credit for understanding what he waswriting about, as there does not appear to be Anygrave objection to doing so ; and as he immediatelyadds, after citing the above epigraph, that it referredto the Penates(AENA2 eVrypo^r fgowai, dr}\ov-<iav Tour nevdras), we shall assume that this wasreally the temple of the Trojan household gods. TheItalian writers regard it as the temple of Remus. A\e do not find any large buildings mentionedupon the Velia till the time of Nero, who, as we haveseen, occupied it with the vestibule of his palace.A considerable part of it had perhaps been a marketpreviously. Close to its NW. foot, immediately be-liind the Aedes Penatium just indicated, Vespasian,after his triumph over Jerusalem, built his celebrated1 BMPLK of Peace, to which we have already hadoccasion to allude, when describing the imperial fora. (Joseph. B. J. vii. 5. § 7; Suet Yap. 9: Di« Camlxvi. 15.) It stood in an enclosed space, mucahtatsetemple of Venus Genitrix in Caesar's forum, •* theftof .Mars Ultor in the forum of Augustas; and hsHtjthough nut designed like them as aputsrfir lersliness, it was nevertheless sometime*called FaThe temple was built with the greatestand adorned with precious works of art from ]palace, as well as with the easily ?j«iUfrom the temple of Jerusalem, which made it arichest and most magnificent sanctuaries that Iworld ever beheld. (Joseph. I.e.; 1'hn.xxxiT.8.axxxvi. 24; Herodian, i. 14.) Hence itsand notoriety gave a new name to the 4ia 1in which it stood, which was previously calbe*era Via," but now obtained the name of ~ Tell'acis." The exact site of this temple w,subject of dispute, the older topographer*ing that the remains of the three vset;little to the K. of the spot just described, iuniversally allowed to belong to the \stantine, were remnants of it Piraot^i 1doubts on the point, but Kibby was thassigned to these two monuments their tru(Foro Bom. p. 189, seq.); and his views Ifurther developed and con6rmed by Cainna.dicaz. Topogr. p. 131, set].) As Becker Iadopted the same conclusion, it will not be ito slate the grounds which led to it, as they 1occupy considerable space ; and we shallrefer those readers who desire more infothe subject to the works just mentioned,to the temple was a library, in which tkt 1were accustomed to meet for the purpuA i"and literary intercourse. (A. GelL t. J I,Tin.' temple was burnt down a little befow tat 4of Commodus. (Dion Cass, hi. 24; IT nri—.jGalen, de Comp. Med, L 1.) It dors not Ihave been restored, but the ruins still Idisturbed, and the spot is several times ilater writers under the name at KoranForum Vespasian i (Amm. Marc xtlB. G. iv. 21 ; Symm. Ep. x. 78;Pas**, p. 243.) The three arches just alluded toasstavtemple of Peace, and apparently at the cof a road branching off from the Sacra Via,Ias is almost universally admitted, to the fCokstantiki, erected by MaxenUus. and fafter his death in the name of Ojrtslantiaa.architecture has all the characteristics of a Iand could not possibly have been adapted Is Ipie. (Canina, Indicat. p. 124.) Tbe Sn*|which we find of this building is in Aurtisaal{Caesar, 40, 26), who mentions it at havierected by MaxenUus; and this account issby an accident which happened in 193811the falling in of a part of an archthe name of Maxentius was discuveradsonry. {Besckr. iii. 298.) In tbe Cat. ip. 243, it is mentioned as occupying ttaeihorrea piperai/iriat or spicetian (" horrea pipemtaria ubi modo -sUnt iniana et Furum Vespasiani~), rhouses must have been tbe same that iDion Cassius (lxxii. 24) to hare firstflames when the temple of Peace wisbsrand are described as rat jt,.tt, * a< - ^teal twv Aiyvrrtuf eopnw; wfcenaspread towards the Palatine, it mar be jthey stood on the site of tue baai]*caw