OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 193 of justice is in the hands of the magistrate; the moreformidable weapon of excommunication is intrusted tothe clergy; and in the exercise of their divine commis­sion, a zealous son will not spare his offending father:the successor of St. Peter may lawfully chastise thekings of the earth. "You assault us, O tyrant! witha carnal and military hand: unarmed and naked, wecan only implore the Christ, the prince of the heavenlyhost, that he will send unto you.a devil, for the de­struction of your body and the salvation of your soul.You declare, with foolish arrogance, I will dispatch myorders to Rome; I will break in pieces the image ofSt. Peter; and Gregory, like his predecessor Martin,shall be transported in chains, and in exile, to the footof the imperial throne. Would to God, that I might bepermitted to tread in the footsteps of the holy Martin;but may the fate of Constans serve as a warning to thepersecutors of the church. After his just condemnationby the bishops of Sicily, the tyrant was cut off, in thefulness of his sins, by a domestic servant; the saint isstill adored by the nations of Scythia, among whom heended his banishment and his life. But it is our dutyto live for the edification and support of the faithfulpeople; nor are we reduced to risk our safety on theevent of a combat. Incapable as you are of defendingyour Roman subjects, the maritime situation of the citymay perhaps expose it to your depredation; but wecan remove to the distance of four-and-twenty stadia1 to the first fortress of the Lombards, and then you may pursue the winds. Are you ignorant that thepopes are the bond of union, the mediators of peace be­tween the east and west? The eyes of the nations arefixed on our humility; and they revere, as a god upon a-raiix vir^tapim a A;y is-*-./; PK/UHC lif tm ;.T=>l 5ii-;cv TOU?aut/Mtit. (Ki'ist. 1. p. Mil.) This proximity of the Lombards ishard of digestion. Camillo Pellegrini (Dissert 4. de Decatfl Beneventi, in theScript . liul. torn. 5. p. 172, 173.) forcibly reckons the twenty-fourth stadia, notfrom Rome, but from the limits of the Roman dutchy, to the first fortress, perhapsSora, of the Lombards. 1 rather believe that Gregory, with the pedantry of theage, employs itadia for miles, without much inquiry into the genuine measure. VOL. VI. O (