OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 1Q3 fame and merit, in wealth and power, he remained, with­out a rival, the first of the Roman subjects: the voice ofenvy could only magnify his dangerous importance; andthe emperor might applaud his own discerning spiritwhich had discovered and raised the genius of Belisarius. It was the custom of the Roman triumphs, that a slave SecretMs-should be placed behind the chariot to remind the COn~ wife Anto-queror of the instability of fortune, and the infirmities ofmn*'human nature. Procopius, in his Anecdotes, has as­sumed that servile and ungrateful office. The generousreader may cast away the libel, but the evidence of factswill adhere to his memory; and he will reluctantly con­fess, that the fame, and even the virtue, of Belisarius,were polluted by the lust and cruelty of his wife; andthat the hero deserved an appellation which may notdrop from the pen of the decent historian. The motherof Antonina" was a theatrical prostitute, and both herfather and grandfather exercised at Thessalonica andConstantinople the vile, though lucrative, profession ofcharioteers. In the various situations of their fortune,she became the companion, the enemy, the servant, andthe favourite of the empress Theodora; these loose andambitious females had been connected by similar plea­sures; they were separated by the jealousy of vice, andat length reconciled by the partnership of guilt. Beforeher marriage with Belisarius, Antonina had one husbandand many lovers; Photius, the son of her former nup­tials, was of an age to distinguish himself at the siege ofNaples; and it was not till the autumn of her age andbeauty* that she indulged a scandalous attachment to aThracian youth. Theodosius had been educated in the Her loverEunomian heresy; the African voyage was consecrated by J^"io' n The diligence of Alemannus could add hat little to the four first and most curi­ous chapters of Anecdotes. Of these straoge Anecdotes, a part may be true, becauseprohable—and a part true, because improhable. Procopius must have known theformer, and the latter he could scarcely invent. * Procopius insinuates (Anecdot. o. 4.) that, when Belisarius returned fo Italy,(A. D. 543.) Antonina was sixty years of age. A forced, but more polite construc­tion, which refers thai date to the moment when he was writing, (A. D. 559.)wonld be compatible with the manhood of Photius. (Gothic. lib. 1. c. 10.) in 536.