OCR Output xxvi NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. an aureus, and proportional pieces of gold were [i 16] See the lives of Agricola, Vespasian,coined by Alexander's order. Hist. August, p. 127, Trajan, Severus, and his three competitors ; andwith the commentary of Salmasius. indeed of all the eminent men of those times. NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. 11] r I x HERE had beenno example of three suc-JL cefsive generations on the throne; onlythree instances of sons who succeeded their fathers.The marriages of the Cæsars (notwithstanding thepermillion, and the frequent practice of divorces)were generally unfruitful. [2] Hist. August, p. 138. [3] Hist. August, p. 140. Herodian, L vi.p. 223. Aurelius .Victor. By comparing these au­thors, it mould seem, that Maximin had the parti­cular command of the Triballian horse, with thegeneral commission of disciplining the recruits of thewhole army. His Biographer ought to have marked,with more care, his exploits, and the successivesteps of his military promotions. [4] See the original letter of Alexander Severus,Hist. August, p. 149. [5] Hist. August, p. 135. I have softened someof the most improbable circumstances of thiswretched biographer. From this ijl-worded narra­tion, it mould seem, that the prince's buffoon hav-ing accidentally entered the tent, and awakened thellumbering monarch, the fear of punishment urgedhim to persuade the disaffected soldiers to committhe murder. [6] Herodian, 1. vi. p. 223—227. [7] Caligula, the eldest of the four, was onlytwenty-five years of age when he ascended thethrone; Caracalla was twenty-three, Commodusnineteen, and Nero no more than seventeen. [8] It appears that he was totally ignorant of theGreek language; which, from its universal use inconversation and letters, was an essential part ofevery liberal education. [9] Hist. August, p. 141. Herodian, I. vii.p. 237. The latter of these historians hat been most unjustly censured for sparing the vices of■ Maximin. [10] He was compared to Spartacus and Athenio.Hist. August, p. 141. [11] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 238. Zosimus, I. up. 1;. [12] In the fertile territory of Byzacium, onehundred and fifty miles to the south of Carthage.This city was decorated, probably by the Gordians,with the title of colony, and with a fine amphithe­atre, which is still in a very perfect state. SeeItinerar. Wesseling. p. 59, and Shaw's travels,p. 117. [13] Herodian,!, vii. p. 239. Hist. August, p. 153. [14] Hist. August, p. 1J2. The celebrated houseof Pompey in carinis, was usurped by Marc Antony,and consequently became, after the Triumvir'sdeath, a part of the imperial domain. The em­peror Trajan allowed and even encouraged therich senators to purchase those magnificent anduseless palaces (Plin. Panegyric, c. 5c.) ; and it mayseem probable, that on this occasion, Pompey'shouse came into the possession of Gordian's greatgrandfather. [ijl The Claudian.tbe Numidian, theCarystian,and the Synnadian. The colours of Roman mar­bles have been faintly described and imperfectlydistinguished. It appears, however, that the Ca-rystian was a sea green, and that the marble ofSynnada was white mixed with oval spots of purple.See Salmasius ad Hist. August, p. 164. [16] Hist.- August, p. 1,51, 152. He sometimesgave five hundred pair of Gladiators, never less than,one hundred and fifty. He once gave for the use of'the Circus one-hundred Sicilian, and as many Cap-padocian horses. The animals designed for hont- *