OCR Output PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 613 (DuixtiiS.) But in the year 315 n. o. Anti-:<cv Morning victorious fn>m Babylonia, easily■:>!!«! ibf gtrriions of Ptolemy from all the Phoe- toirm «r#pt Tyre, where he experienced an■'-■.rail rnwanre. Eighteen years had sufficed to it in ft considerable degree to its ancient iqJ paver; and although the mole still re--ui-rj it »4S almost as impregnable as before, and»l wt wdowd till after a siege of fifteen months.}m [hi? juried down to near the end of the thirdfloory a. c there was an almost constant sue- of itrog;les for the possession of PhoeniciaWf*« the Ptolemies on one side and the Seleucidae * u* other, Ptolemy Euergetes succeeded in re­nte^ it, and it was held by him and his son Phi-i«.r<J*ni to the year 218 B.C.; when Antiochusn» Gnat, taking advantage of the indolent and character of the latter, and the consequentt*/>n of hi* administration, undertook its re-Tyre and Ace were surrendered to him by * ^achrry of Throdotus, the lieutenant of Phi-w. tnl the Egyptian army and fleet were dc-and and driven to take refuge at Sidon. In the*k»T3£ tw, however, Philopator defeated An->rKit at tUphia near the frontiers of Egypt, andpz*rj paeeanon of Phoenicia and Syria, whichi maaad tOI Jus death, b. c 205. The reign'iafant Ion again tempted the ambition of■staaa. He succeeded in reducing Phoenicia, ■ after rfpohing an attempt of the Egyptians it in B-c. 198, firmly established bis do-3 ib4 bequeathed it to his sons.V:vita4andinff these straggles. Tyre appears toft ir.j sijr<ycd a considerable share of commercial■B*rlT. in which, however, she had now to en-a formidable rival in Alexandria. At first,W- tiat city did not much interfere with her**r*j: f«at the foundation of Berenice on the'•^ by Ptolemy PhiUdelphus, the making of ai tavern that pi are and Coptos, and the re-k-v J. the canal which connected the gulf ofl vua the PeJmiac branch of the Nile (Strab.'*!1 indicted a severe blow upon her commerce,I «*«wtrd Alexandria into the chief emporium ;*oiacta of the East.&* nril «m of the' Seleucidae, and the suffer-I «*ra they entailed, induced the Syrians and*- aaj to place thenwelves under the protectionfovea, king of Armenia, in the year 83 b. c.**,«L I; Appian. .Syr. 48.) Ace, or Ptolemais,ti» mly cfry which, at the instigation of Selene, ■ «* Aati genua, refused to open its gates toa« 7aat monarch held Phoenicia duringaaa wan, whan the Sleucidae regained it for a1' ~* • nooK<)uence of t he victories of Lucullus.r *«n hler Pompey reduced all Syria to theI*" rf a Roman province. During the civil\ 4 aar», Phoenicia was the scene of manyIf* Vrween the Koman generals. Just pre-■> to tW hattit of Pnilippt, Cassias divided * '■tomwml small principalities, which be soldb kfafat bidders; and in this way Tyre hadMia*; called Marion. Antony presented the»-«*tt between Eeypt and the river Eleu- ■ to Qanatlra, but, in spite of her intreaties to^^vnr, aeeurad Tyre and Sidon in their (J,«eph. Ant, xv. 4. § 1.) But» Asrura ri«ted the Ea>t, n. c. 20, he deprived^liberties. (Won Caa*. liv. 7.) the Bman dominion put an end to the6»i '.xUtav* of Tyre and iudon, they retained their manufactures and commerce for a considerableperiod. Mela, who probably wrote during the reignof Claudius, characterises Sidon as11 adhuc opulenta"(L 12); and Pliny, at about the same period, advertsto the staple trade of Tyre as being still in aflourishing condition ('' nunc omnis ejus nobilitasconchy lio at que purpura constat," v. 17). At theinstance of the rhetorician Paul us, Hadrian, as wehave already mentioned, granted to Tyre the title ofmetropolis. It was the residence of a proconsul, andthe chief naval station on the coast of Syria. Duringthe contest of Septimius Severus and PescenniusNiger for imperial power, a. i>.193, Beryttis favouredthe cause of Niger, Tyre that of Septimius; in con-sequence of which, it was taken and burnt by thelight Mauritanian troops of Niger, who committedgreat slaughter. (Herodian, iii. 9. § 10.) Severus,after his success, recruited the population of Tyrefrom the third legion, and, as a reward for itsattachment, bestowed on it the Jus Italtcum andthe title of colony. (Ulpian, Dig. Leg. de Cens.tit 15; Eckhel, vol. iii. p. 387.) In the time ofSt. Jerome, towards the end of the fourth century,it was still the first commercial city of the East{Comm. ad Ezek. xxvi. 7, xxvii. 2); and after thedestruction of Berytus by an earthquake in thereign of Justinian, it monopolised the manufacture ofimperial purple, which it had previously shared withthat city. Beyond this period it is not necessary topursue the history of Phoenicia. We shall only addthat Tyre continued to flourish under the milddominion of the caliphs, and that, in spite of all theviolence which it suffered from the crusaders, itsprosperity was not utterly annihilated till the con­quest of Syria by the Ottoman Turks, a. d. 1516;a result, however, to which the discovery of theNew World, and of a route to Asia by the Cape ojGood Ifope, likewise contributed. V. Political Constitution. Phoenicia consisted of several small independentkingdoms, or rather cities, which were sometimesunited with and sometimes opposed to one another,just as we find Canaan described at the time whenit was invaded by the Israelites. (Strab. xvi. p. 754;Joshua, x.) We have but little information re­specting the constitution of these kingdoms. Thethrone was commonly hereditary, but the peopleseem to have possessed a right of election. (Justin,xviii. 4.) The chief priests exercised great power,and were next in rank to the king. Thus Sicharbas,or Sichaeus, chief priest of the temple of Hercules,was the husband of Dido, and consequently thebrother-in-law of king Pygmalion. There seemsalso to have been a powerful aristocracy, but on whatit was founded is unknown. Thus a body of nobles,who are called senators, accompanied the emigrationof Dido. (Justin, /. c.) During the interregnum atTyre after the ^e^vile insurrection, the governmentwas carried on by elective magistrates, called judgesorsnffetes. (Joseph, c. Ap. LSI.) This institutionalso obtained at Gades and Carthage, and probablyin all the western colonies of Tyre. (Liv. xxviii. 37;com p. Movers, ii. pt i. p. 534.) Kings existed inPhoenicia down to the time of Alexander the GrcaL(Arrian, ii. 24.) The federal constitution of Phoe­nicia resembled a Grecian hegemony: either Tyreor Sidon was always at the head, though Araiiusand Byblus likewise had kings. During the earliestperiod of its history, Sidon appears to have beenthe leading city; but after its capture by the king. B it 3