OCR Output an. 1955.] 27 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. her being in such a miserable case was, thatshe had been ungrateful and arrogant towardsher mistress. He also told her, that it" shedisobeyed God, and went on still on her way,she should perish: but if she would returnback, she should become the mother of a son,who should reign over that country. Theseadmonitions she obeyed, and returned to hermaster and mistress, and obtained forgive­ness. A little while afterwards, she gave birth toIsmael,* which may be interpreted Heard ofGod: because God heard his mother's prayer. This son was born to Abram when he waseighty-six years old.f But when he wasninety-nine, God appeared to- him, and pro­mised that he should have a son by Sarai,and commanded that his name should beIsaac; and shewed him that from this sonshould spring great nations and kings; andthat they should obtain the land of Canaan bywar from Sidon to Egypt. But he charged,in order to keep his posterity unmixt withothers, that they should be circumcised in theflesh of their foreskin, and that this should bedone on the eighth day after they were born.The reason of which circumcision I will ex­plain in another place. And Abram enquiringalso concerning Ismael, whether he shouldlive or not; God signified to him that heshould live to be very old, and should be thefather of great nations. Abram therefore gavethanks to God for these blessings; and thenhe, with his son Ismael, and all his family,were circumcised immediately: the son beingthat day thirteen years of age, and Abramninety-nine. CHAP. XL OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE SODOMITE NATION, ONACCOUNT OF THEIR SINS. ABOUT this time the Sodomites grewproud on account of their riches andgreat wealth: they became unjust towardsmen, and impious towards God; insomuchthat they did not call to mind the advantagesthey received from him: they hated strangersand abused themselves with unnatural prac­tices. God was therefore much displeased * An. 1966.t Gen. xvi. 16. voL. I.—No. 3. at them, and determined as a punishment fortheir pride, to overthrow their city, and laywaste their country, till there should neitherplant nor fruit grow out of it. When God had thus resolved concerningthe Sodomites, Abraham, as he sat by theoak of Mambre, at the door of his tent, sawthree angels;% and thinking them to bestrangers, he rose up, and saluted them, anddesired they would accept of an entertain­ment, and abide with him: to which whenthey agreed, he ordered cakes of meal to bemade, and when he had slain a calf, heroasted it, and brought it to them as they satunder the oak. Now they made a shew ofeating; and besides they asked him abouthis wife Sarah, where she was, and when hesaid she was within, they said they shouldcome again hereafter, and find her become amother. Upon which the woman laughed,and said, that it was impossible she shouldbear children, since she was ninety years ofage, and her husband was an hundred. Thenthey concealed themselves no longer, butdeclared that they were angels of God; andthat one of them was sent to inform themabout the child, and two for the overthrowof Sodom. When Abraham heard this, he was grievedfor the Sodomites; and he rose up, and be­sought God for them, and intreated him thathe would not destroy the righteous with thewicked. But when God had replied, thatthere was no good man among the Sodomites,for if there were but ten such men amongthem he would not punish any of them fortheir sins, Abraham held his peace. And theangels came to the city of the Sodomites, andLot intreated them to accept a lodging withhim ;|j for he was a very generous and hos­pitable man, and one that had learned toimitate the goodness of Abraham. Now whenthe Sodomites saw the young men to be oibeautiful countenances and this to an extra­ordinary degree; and that they took up theirlodgings with Lot, they resolved to possessthose beautiful boys by force; and when Lotexhorted them to sobriety, and not to offerany thing immodest to the strangers, but tohave regard to their lodging in his house, J Gen. xxviii. 2.II Gen. xix. 2. H