OCR Output PREFAGE. himself for an explanation of his own meaning, must exceed­ingly often get quite wide of the sense. The writers ofScholia and the notes of verbal critics put us frequently on awrong scent, and more frequently leave us utterly in the dark.But, if we will be patient at a dead lift, something will soonoccur in the author himself to help us out, the obscurity willvanish, and light beam in upon us. Though sometimes wemay be forced to divine his meaning, since in many cases itis vain to apply to the aids of Grammar to develope the con­struction, yet the context at length will shew whether we havesucceeded, or help us to ascertain the sense. This howeverdemands repeated and attentive revisals. The present trans­lator hath not been frugal of his time or labour in these points.And wliether he hath generally succeeded in ascertaining thethought and properly expressing it in another language, mustbe left to the decision, not of men of no learning nor of merelearning, but to that class of judges, who are well acquaintedwith the state of Athens at the time of the history, and arereally Attic both in taste and judgment. This class, it may­be thought, will be but small: It is larger however, andhigher seated in this our community, than the generality haveeither opportunity enough to discover or good nature enoughto own. The complaints so often made by the most able translatorsare indeed alarming. Their performances (they say) mayvery much disgrace, but can never commend them. Thepraise of all that is clear, and bright, and pleasing, and innstructive, is reflected back upon the original author; butevery appearance of a different nature is laid with severity ofcensure at the door of the translator. If it be so, we knowthe terms beforehand on which, either able or unable, we en­gage, and must patiently acquiesce in the issue. But candoris always expected, nay ever will be had from persons ofgood sense and sound judgment. Few but such may bepleased with Thucydides either in his old native Greek, orin a modern English garb ; and, if such confer the honour of