OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. and renown. Their manners were not less ferocious.The assassination of a royal guest was executed in thepresence, and by the command, of the king's daughter,who had been provoked by some words of insult, anddisappointed by his diminutive stature; and a tribute,the price of blood, was imposed on the Lombards, by hisbrother, the king of the Heruli. Adversity revived asense of moderation and justice, and the insolence ofconquest was chastised by the signal defeat and irrepara­ble dispersion of the Heruli, who were seated in thesouthern provinces of Poland.1 The victories of theLombards recommended them to the friendship of theemperors: and at the solicitation of Justinian, theypassed the Danube, to reduce, according to their treaty,the cities of Noricum and the fortresses of Pannonia.But the spirit of rapine soon tempted them beyond theseample limits; they wandered along the coast of the Ha-driatic as far as Dyrrachium, and presumed, with familiarrudeness, to enter the towns and houses of their Romanallies, and to seize the captives who had escaped fromtheir audacious hands. These acts of hostility, the sallies,as it might be pretended, of some loose adventurers, weredisowned by the nation, and excused by the emperor;but the arms of the Lombards were more seriously en­gaged by a contest of thirty years, which was terminatedonly by the extirpation of the Gepida?. The hostile na­tions often pleaded their cause before the throne of Con­stantinople; and the crafty Justinian, to whom the bar­barians were almost equally odious, pronounced a partialand ambiguous sentence, and dexterously protracted thewar by slow and ineffectual succours. Their strengthwas formidable, since the Lombards, who sent into thefield several myriads of soldiers, still claimed, as theweaker side, the protection of the Romans. Their spirit 1 Two facts in the narrative of Paul Diaconus (lib. 1. c. 20.) are expressive of na­tional manners.—1. Dum ad tabutam luderet—while be played at draughts. 2. Cam-porum viridantia Una. The cultivation of flax supposes property, commerce, agri­culture, and manufactures. -v