OCR Output aN. 1048.] 287 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. now built, to be burnt and spoiled by theirenemies, and that city to be utterly over­thrown by the hands of their enemies; andmake their miseries proverbial, and such asshould hardly be credited for their stupen­dous magnitude; till their neighbours, whenthey should hear of them, should wonder attheir calamities, and earnestly inquire for theoccasion, why the Hebrews, who had beenbefore advanced by God to such wealth andglory, should be then so hated by him? andthat the answer that should be made by theremainder of the people should be, by con­fessing their sins, and their transgression ofthe laws of their country * CHAP. V. OF THE ROYAL PALACE ERECTED BV KING SOLOMON, AND HISSOLUTION OF THE RIDDLES SENT HIM BV HIRAM. AFTER the building of the temple,which, we have before said, wasfinished in seven years, the king laid thefoundation of his palace;")" which he did notfinish under thirteen years. For he was notequally zealous in the building of this palace,as he had been about the temple. Foralthough that was a great work, and re­quired wonderful application; yet God, forwhom it was made, so far co-operated there­with, that it was finished in the aforemen­tioned number of years. But the palace,which was a building much inferior in dignityto the temple, both on account that its mate­rials had not been so long beforehand pre­pared, and on account that this was only ahabitation for kings, and not for God, it waslonger in finishing. However, this buildingwas raised so magnificently, as suited thehappy state of the country of the Hebrews,and of the king thereof. But it is necessarythat I describe the entire structure and dis­position of the parts; that so those who pe- ruse this book may thereby make a conjec­ture, and as it were, have a prospect of itsmagnitude. This house was a large and curious edifice,which Solomon built for hearing causes, andtaking cognizance of suits. It was sufficientlycapacious to contain a great body of men;who would come together to have theircauses determined. It was a hundred cubitslong, fifty broad, and thirty high; supportedby quadrangular pillars, which were all ofcedar; but its roof was according to the JCo-rinthian order, with folding doors, and theiradjoining pillars of equal magnitude, eachfluted with three cavities; which buildingwas at once firm and very ornamental. Therewas also another house so ordered, that itsentire breadth was placed in the middle. Itwas quadrangular, and its breadth was thirtycubits; having a temple over against it, raisedupon many pillars; in which temple therewas a large and magnificent room, whereinthe king sat in judgment. To this was joinedanother house that was built for his queen.There were other smaller edifices for diet,and for sleep, after public matters were over;and these were all floored with boards ofcedar. Some of these Solomon built withstones of ten cubits; and lined the walls withother stones that were of great value; suchas are dug out the earth for the ornaments oftemples, and to make fine prospects in royalpalaces; and which make the mines whencethey are dug famous. Now the contextureof the curious workmanship of these stoneswas in three rows; but the fourth row wasadorned with sculptures which representedtrees, and all sorts of plants, with the shadesthat arose from their branches, and leavesthat hung down from them. These trees andplants covered the stone that was beneaththem, and their leaves were wrought so pro­digiously thin and subtile that you would * 1 Kings ht. 1—9. t 1 Kings vii. 1—12. J This mention of the Corinthian ornaments of archi­tecture in Solomon's palace by Josephus, seems to behere set down by way of prolepsis. For although it ap­pears to me, that the Grecian and Roman most ancientorders of architecture were taken from Solomon's temple,as from their original patterns; yet it is not so clear thatthe last and most ornamental order, the Corinthian, wasso ancient. Although what the same Josephus says, Ofthe War, V. 5. that one of the gates of Herod's templewas built according to the rules of this Corinthian order, is no way improbable; that order being, without dispute,much older than the reign of Herod. However, uponsome trial, 1 confess I have not hitherto been able fullyto understand the structure of this palace of Solomon's,either as described in our Bibles, or even with the addi­tional help of this description here by Josephus. So Iadd no more notes about it. Only the reader may easilyobserve with me, that the measures of this first buildingin Josephus, 100 cubits long, and 50 cubits broad, arethe very same with the area of the court of the taber­nacle of Moses; and just half an Egyptian aroura oracre.