OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. 337 G6. Now, when I had settled the affairs of Tiberias, and hadassembled my friends as a Sanhedrim, I consulted what I shoulddo as to John. Whereupon it appeared to be the opinion of allthe Galileans, that I should arm them all, and march againstJohn, and punish him as the author of all the disorders that hadhappened. Yet was not I pleased with their determination ;as purposing to compose these troubles without bloodshed. Up­on this I exhorted them to use the utmost care to learn the namesof all that were under John ; which when they had done, and Ithereby was apprised who the men were, I published an edict,wherein I offered security and my right hand to such of John'sparty as had a mind to repent; and I allowed twenty days timeto such as would take this qiost advantageous course for them­selves. I also threatened, that unless they threw down theirarms, I would burn their houses, and expose their goods to pub­lic sale. When the men heard of this, they were in no smalldisorder, and deserted John; and to the number of four thou­sand threw down their arms, and came to me. So that no o-thers staid with John but his own citizens, and about fifteenhundred strangers that came from the metropolis of Tyre ; and,when John sawrthat he had been 'outwitted by my stratagem, hecontinued afterward in his own country, and was in great fearof me. 67. But about this time it was that the people of Sepphorisgrew insolent, and took up arms, out of a confidence they hadin the strength of their walls, and because they saw me engagedin other affairs also. So they sent to Cestius Gallus, who waspresident of Syria, and desired that he would either come quick­ly to them, and take their city under his protection, or send thema garrison. Accordingly Gallus promised them to come, butdid not send word when he would come : and, when I had learn­ed so much, I took the soldiers that were with me, and madean assault upon the people of Sepphoris, and took the city byforce. The Galileans took this opportunity as thinking theyhad now a proper time for shewing their hatred to them, sincethey borfe ill-will to that city also. Then they exerted them­selves, as if they would destroy them all utterly, with those thatsojourned there also. So they ran upon them, and set theirhouses on fire, as finding them without inhabitants ; for the menout of fear ran together to the citadel. So the Galileans carriedoff every thing, and omitted no kind of desolation which theycould bring upon their countrymen. When I saw this, I wasexceedingly troubled at it, and commanded them to leave off,and put them in mind that it was not agreeable to piety to doSi*ch things to their countrymen : but since they neither would hearken