OCR Output AN. 40.] 327 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. came to the port of Brundusium. And whenhe was come from thence to Rome, he firstrelated to Antony what had befallen him inJudea; and that Phasaelus his brother wasseized on by the Parthians, and put to deathby them; that Hyrcanus was detained cap­tive by them; and that they had made Anti-gonus king, who had promised them a thou­sand talents, with five hundred women; whowere to be of the principal families, and ofthe Jewish stock; and that he carried off thewomen by night; and that by undergoing agreat many hardships, he had escaped thehands of his enemies. As also that his ownrelations were in danger of being besieged,and taken; and that he had sailed through astorm, and contemned all these terrible dan­gers in order to come, as soon as possible, tohim; who was his hope, and only succour, atthis time. This account made Antony commiserate*the change that had happened in Herod'scondition. And reasoning with himself, thatthis was a common case among those that areplaced in such great dignities, and that theyare liable to the mutations that come fromfortune, he was very ready to give him theassistance he desired; and this because herecollected the friendship he had had withAntipater; because Herod offered him moneyto make him a king, as he had formerly givenit him to make him tetrarch, and chiefly be­cause of his hatred to Antigonus: for he tookhim to be a seditious person, and an enemy tothe Romans, f Caesar was also the forwarderto raise Herod's dignity, and to give him hisassistance in what he desired, on account ofthe toils of war which he had himself under­gone with Antipater, his father, in Egypt;and of the hospitality he had treated himwithal; and the kindness he had alwaysshewn him: as also to gratify Antony, whowas very zealous for Herod. So a senate wasconvened: and Massala first, and then Atra- tinus, introduced Herod into it: and enlargedupon the benefits they had received from hisfather; and reminded them of the good willhe had borne the Romans. At the same timethey accused Antigonus, and declared him anenemy; not only because of his former oppo­sition to them; but that he had now over­looked the Romans, and taken the govern­ment from the Parthians. Upon this the se­nate was irritated: and Antony informedthem farther, that it was for their advantagein the Parthian war that Herod should beking. This seemed good to all the senators;and they made a decree accordingly. This was the principal instance of Antony'saffection for Herod, that he not only pro­cured him a kingdom which he did not ex­pect; (for he did not come with an intentionto ask the kingdom for himself; which he didnot suppose the Romans would grant him;who used to bestow it on some of the royalfamily; but intended to desire it for his wife'sbrother, who was grandson by his father toAristobulus, and to Hyrcanus by his mother;)but that he procured it for him so suddenly,that he obtained what he did not expect, anddeparted out of Italy in seven days. ThisJyoung man, the grandson, Herod afterwardtook care to have slain; as we shall shew inits proper place. But when the senate wasdissolved, Antony and Caesar went out of thesenate house, with Herod between them, andwith the consuls and other magistrates beforethem; in order to offer sacrifices, and to layup their decrees in the capitol. Antony alsofeasted Herod the first day of his reign. Andthus did this man receive the kingdom; havingobtained it in the hundred and eighty-fourthOlympiad; when Caius Domitius Calvinuswas consul the second time, and Caius Asi-nius Pollio the first time. In the mean time Antigonus besieged thosethat were in Massada; who had plenty of allother necessaries, but were only in ||want of * Concerning the chronology of Herod, and the timewhen he was first made king at Rome; and concerningthe time when he began his second reign, without a rival,upon the conquest or slaughter of Antigonus; both prin­cipally derived from this and the two next chapters in Jo-gephus; see the Harm, of the Evang. page 150—155, andthe note on chap. 15. It is, however, very strange, thatin such a violent haste as Herod now was, Josephus shoulduse such words, and that both here, and in the history Ofthe War, I. 14. as almost imply his building a great shipat Rhodes, in his passage to Italy; for which to be sure, he now had no time at all. Spanheim says, on the placeOf the War now quoted, that he only hired a ship now atRhodes; and that as Josephus's affirmation also; which,though not at all unlikely in itself, but rather highly pro­bable, yet has no foundation in the copies. See also forthis chronology of Herod, Josephus's own speech to theJews, Of the War, V. 9. t See Chap. 13. J Aristobulus, jun. See Book XV. chap. 3. II This grievous want of water at Maseada, till theplace had like to have been taken by the Parthians, men