OCR Output CHAP. LI. 427 made, and fled to Mecca, to escape the justice, and ex­pose the ignorance, of the apostle. After the conquestof Mecca, he fell prostrate at the feet of Mahomet: histears, and the entreaties of Othman, extorted a reluc­tant pardon; but the prophet declared that he had solong hesitated, to allow time for some zealous disciple toavenge his injury in the blood of the apostate. Withapparent fidelity, and effective merit, he served the re­ligion which it was no longer his interest to desert: hisbirth and talents gave him an honourable rank amongthe Koreish; and in a nation of cavalry, Abdallah wasrenowned as the boldest and most dexterous horseman ofArabia. At the head of forty thousand Moslems, he ad­vanced from Egypt into the unknown countries of thewest. The sands of Barca might be impervious to aRoman legion; but the Arabs were attended by theirfaithful camels; and the natives of the desert beheldwithout terror the familiar aspect of the soil and climate.After a painful march, they pitched their tents before thewalls of Tripoli,b a maritime city in which the name, thewealth, and the inhabitants, of the province had gradu­ally centred, and which now maintains the third rankamong the states of Barbary. A reinforcement of Greekswas surprised and cut in pieces on the sea-shore; butthe fortifications of Tripoli resisted the first assaults; andthe Saracens were tempted, by the approach of the pre­fect Gregory,0 to relinquish the labours of the siege forthe perils and the hopes of a decisive action. If his * The province and city of Tripoli are described by Leo Africanus (in Naviga-tione et Viaggi di Ramnsio, torn. 1. Venetia, 1550, fol. 76. IT/HI) and Marmol.(Description de 1'Afrique, torn. 2. p. 562.) The first of these writers was a Moor,a scholar, and a traveller, who composed or translated his African geography in aMate of captivity at Rome, where he had assumed the name and religion of popeLeo X. In a similar captivity among the Moors, the Spaniard Marmol, a soldierof Charles V. compiled his description of Africa, translated by d'Ablancourt intoFrench (Paris, 1667, three vols. in quarto): Marmol had read and seen, but he isdestitute of the cnrious and extensive observation which abounds in the originalwork of Leo the African. c Theophanes, who mentions the defeat, rather than the death, of Gregory. Hebrands the prefect with the name of Tupavw;; he had probably assumed the purple.(Chronograph, p. 285.)