OCR Output 274 ROMAN EMPIRE. eight parts, the zodiac 6f (he rrioon, and to Wess dieconstellations who refreshed, with salutary rains, thethirst of the desert. The reign of the heavenly orbscould not be extended beyond the visible sphere; andsome metaphysical powers were necessary to sustainthe transmigration of souls and the resurrection of bo­dies: a camel was left to perish on the grave, that he"might serve his master in another life; and'the invoca­tion of departed spirits implies that they were still en­dowed with consciousness and poWer. I am ignorant,and I am careless, of the blind mythology of the bar-'barians; of the local deities, of the stars, the air, andthe earth, of their sex or titles, their attributed or Isub-ordihation. Each tribe, each family, each indepen­dent warrior, created and changed the rites and theobject of his fantastic worship; but the nation, in everyage, has bowed to the religion, as well as to the'lan-guage, of Mecca. The genuine antiquity of theTheCaa- CAABA ascends beyond the Christian era: intem0ie of describing the coast of the Red sea, the GreekMecca, historian Diodorus7 has remarked, between itheThamudites and the Sabsans, a famous temple, whosesuperior sanctity was revered by all the Arabians: tirelinen or silken veil, which is annually renewed by&eTurkish emperor, was first offered by a pious king ofthe Homerites, who reigned seven hundred years beforethe time of Mahomet." A tent Or a cavern might suf­fice for the worship of the savages, but an edifice ofstone and clay has been erected in its place; and the > Is(-.v ayvframti iifarai rifta/inn iim tarrm ApSi.v irtfirrvfifm. (Diod." Sir ul.torn. 1. fib. 3. p. 211.) The character and position are so correctly appofite, thatI am surprised how this curious passage should have been read without notice orapplication. Yet this famous temple had been overlooked by Agatharcide* (de, Mini liubro, ],. 58. in Hudson, torn. 1.) whom Diodorus copies in the rest of thedescription. Was the Sicilian more knowing than the Egyptian? Or was the(.'fuih;i built between the yean of Rome 650 and 746, the dates of their respec­tive histories? (Dodwell, in Dissert, ad torn. 1. Hudson, p. 72. Fabricius, Bib-liot. Griee, torn. 12. D. 770.) * 1'urtick, Specimen, p. 60, 61. From the death of Mahomet we ascend to 68,from his birth to 129, years before the Christian era. The veil or curtain, whichis now, of silk and gold, was no more than a piece of Egyptian linen. (Abulfedaiin Vit. Mohammed, c. 6. p. 14.)