OCR Output 70 VESPASIAN. [B. III. corrupted the air, insomuch that the misery was not only theobject of commiseration to the Jews, but to those that hatedthem, and had been the authors of that misery. This wasthe upshot of the sea-fight. The number of the slain, in­cluding those that were killed in the city before, was sixthousand five hundred. 10. After this fight was over, Vespasian sat upon histribunal at Taricheae, in order to distinguish the foreignersfrom the old inhabitants; for those foreigners appeared tohave begun the war. So he deliberated with the other com­manders whether he ought to save those old inhabitants ornot. And when these commanders alleged, that the dis­mission of them would bo to his own disadvantage, becausewhen they were once set at liberty they would not be at rest,since they would be people destitute of proper habitations,and would be able to compel such as fled to fight against us,Vespasian acknowledged that they did not deserve to be saved,and that if they had leave given them to fly away, they wouldmake use of it against those that gave them that leave. Butstill he considered with himself after what manner they shouldbe slain;' for if he had them slain there, he suspected thatthe people of the country would thereby become his enemies;for that to be sure they would never bear it, that so manythat had been supplicants to him should bo killed; and tooffer violence to them after he had given them assurances oftheir lives, he could not himself bear to do it. However, his 1 This is the most cruel and barbarous action that Vespasian ever did inthis whole war, as he did it with great reluctance also. It was done bothafter public assurance given of sparing the prisoners' lives, and when allknew and confessed that these prisoners were no way guilty of any seditionagainst the Romans. Nor, indeed, did Titus now give his consent, so far asnppears, nor ever acted of himself so barbarously; nay, soon after thisTitus grew quite weary of shedding blood, and of punishing the innocentwith tho guilty, and gave the people of Gischala leave to keep the JewishSabbath, B. iv. ch. ii. sect. 3, 6, in the midst of their siege. Nor was Ves­pasian disposed to do what he did, till his officers persuaded him, and thatfrom two principal topics, viz.: that nothing could be unjust that was donoagainst Jews, and that when both cannot be consistent, advantage must pre­vail over justice. Admirable court doctrines these!