OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 273 the emperor was soon reduced to the scanty stock of chap.provisions, which continually wasted in his hands.— XIX"Before they were entirely consumed, he might stillhave reached the wealthy and unwarlike cities of Ec- .batana, or Susa, by the effort of a rapid and welldirected march; but he was deprived of this lastresource by his ignorance of the roads, and by theperfidy of his guides. The Romans wandered se­veral days in the country to the eastward of Bagdad;the Persian deserter, who had artfully led them intothe snare, escaped from their resentment; and hisfollowers, as soon as they were put to the torture,confessed the secret of the conspiracy. The visionaryconquests of Hyrcania and India, which had so longamused, now tormented, the mind of Julian. Con­scious that his own imprudence was the cause of thepublic distress, he anxiously balanced the hopes ofsafety or success, without obtaining a satisfactoryanswer either from gods or men. At length, as theonly practicable measure, he embraced the resolutionof directing his steps towards the banks of the Ti­gris, with the design of saving the army by a hastymarch to the confines of Corduene; a fertile andfriendly province, which acknowledged the sovereigntyof Rome. The desponding troops obeyed the signalof the retreat, only seventy days after they had passedthe Chaboras, with the sanguine expectation of sub- June 1C.verting the throne of Persia *. As long as the Romans seemed to advance into the Retreat A A' country, their march was observed and insulted from o" the'StresSa distance, by several bodies of Persian cavalry; who Eomanshowing themselves sometimes in loose, and some­times in closer order, faintly skirmished with theadvanced guards. These detachments were, however, * The march of Julian from Ctesiphon is circumstantially, but not clearly,described by Ammianus (xxiv. 7, 8.), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 134. p. 357.),and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 183.). The two last seem ignorant that their conquerorwas retreating; and Libanius absurdly confines hhn to the banks of the Tigris. VOL. II. T