OCR Output 20 LIVY. of a devoted consul: every part of (heir army had suf­fered great slaughter: their spearmen and their firstrank were cut to pieces; and, both before and behindtheir standards, multitudes were slain, until the vete­rans at last restored their cause. Now, although theforces of the Latines were reduced in an equal propor­tion, yet still, for the purpose of procuring reinforce­ments, either Latium, or the territory of the Volscians,was nearer than Rome. Wherefore, if they approvedof it, he would with all speed call out the youth fromthe states of the Latines and Volscians ; would marchback to Capua, with an army prepared for action, and,while the Romans thought of nothing less than a bat­tle, strike them with dismay by his unexpected arri­val.' The misrepresentations contained in his letters,which he despatched round Latium and the Volsciannation, were the more easily credited by the people,as they had not been present at the battle, and in con­sequence a tumultuary army levied in haste assembledfrom all quarters. This body the consul Torquatusmet at Trisanum, a place between Sinuessa and Min-turnaj. Withput waiting to choose ground for camps,both parties threw down their baggage in heaps, andimmediately began an engagement, which decided thefate of the war: for the strength of the Latines was sointirely broken fljat, on the consul leading his victo­rious army to ravage their country, they all submittedthemselves to his mercy, and their submission was fol­lowed by that of the Campanians. A forfeiture of aportion of their territory was exacted from Latium andCapua. The Latine lands, to which the Privernianwere added, and -also the Falernian, which had be­longed to the people of Campania, as far as the riverVulturnus, were distributed to the Roman commons.Of two acres, the portion allotted to each, three-fourthswere assigned them in the Latine ground, the comple­ment to be made up out of the Privernian. In theFalernian, three acres were given to each, the additionof one being made in consideration of the distance.' Of the Latines, the Laurentians were exempted from,.A