OCR Output 474 LITERATURE AND ART. LBook IV- among them. The consequences of neglecting theory ap­peared practically in the low state of medical knowledge andJurispru- of a portion of the military sciences. Of all the professionaldence. sciences jurisprudence alone was flourishing-. We cannottrace its internal development with chronological accuracy.On the whole the pontifical law fell more and more into theshade, and at the end of this period stood nearly in the sameposition as the canon law at the present day. The finer andmore profound conception of law, on the other hand, whichsubstitutes for outward criteria the motive springs of actionwithin—such as the development of the ideas of offences aris­ing from intention and from carelessness respectively, and ofpossession entitled to temporary protection—was not yet inexistence at the time of the Twelve Tables, but was so in theage of Cicero, and probably owed its elaboration substantiallyto the present epoch. The reaction of political relations onthe development of law has been already indicated on severaloccasions; it was not always advantageous. By the insti­tution of the tribunal of the Centumviri to deal with inherit­ance (P. 372), for instance, there was introduced in the lawof property a college of jurymen, which, like the criminal au­thorities, instead of simply applying the law placed itselfabove it and with its so-called equity undermined the legalinstitutions; one consequence of which among others was theirrational principle, that any one whom a relative had passedover in his testament was at liberty to propose that thetestament should be annulled by the court, and the courtdecided according to its discretion. The development ofjuristic literature admits of being more distinctly recognized.It had hitherto been restricted to collections of formula­ries and explanations of terms in the laws; at this periodthere was first formed a literature of opinions {responsa),which answers nearly to our modern collections of prece­dents. These opinions—which were delivered no longermerely by members of the pontifical college but by every onewho found persons to consult him, at home or in the openmarket-place, and with which were already associatedrational and polemical illustrations and the standing con­troversies peculiar to jurisprudence—began to be noteddown and to be promulgated in collections about the begin­ning of the seventh century. This was done first by the150. younger Cato (+ about 600) and by Marcus Brutus (nearlycontemporary); and these collections were, as it would ap­