OCR Output CHAP. LI. 439 yielded to her unworthy yoke. They no longer hoped,perhaps they no longer wished, the return of their By­zantine sovereigns: their present servitude was not alle­viated by the benefits of order and justice; and the mostzealous Catholic must prefer the imperfect truths of theKoran to the blind and rude idolatry of the Moors. Thegeneral of the Saracens was again received as the saviourof the province; the friends of civil society conspiredagainst the savages of the land; and the royal prophe­tess was slain in the first battle which overturned thebaseless fabric of her superstition and empire. Thesame spirit revived under the successor of Hassan; itwas finally quelled by the activity of Musa and his twosons, but the number of the rebels may be presumed fromthat of three hundred thousand captives; sixty thousandof whom, the caliph's fifth, were sold for the profit ofthe public treasury. Thirty thousand of the barbarianyouth were inlisted in the troops; and the pious laboursof Musa to inculcate the knowledge and practice of theKoran, accustomed the Africans to obey the apostle ofGod and the commander of the faithful. In their cli­mate and government, their diet and habitation, the wan­dering Moors resembled the Bedoweens of the desert.Adoption With the religion, they were proud to adopt thelanguage, name, and origin of Arabs: the bloodof the strangers and natives was insensiblymingled; and from the Euphrates to the Atlantic thesame nation might seem to be diffused over the sandyplains of Asia and Africa. Yet I will not deny thatfifty thousand tents of pure Arabians might be trans­ported over the Nile, and scattered through the Libyandesert; and I am not ignorant that five of the Moorishtribes still retain their barbarous idiom, with the appel­lation and character of white Africans.5 k The first book of Leo Africanus, and the observations of Dr. Shaw, (p. 320.223. 227. 247, Sue.) will throw some light on the roving tribes of Barbary, of Ara­bian or Moorish descent. But Shaw had seen these savages with distant terror;and Leo, a captive in the Vatican, appears to have lost more of his Arabic, than