OCR Output IDS LACONIA. LAC.MON. vol. i. p. 34), a tributary town of tlio Tunliill inHispania Bactica, near the shore of the Mediter­ranean, where its ruins arc still seen at A Ircip/x,near Ciaaret. Ptolemy places it too far inland.(Mela, ii. 6. § 7; Plin. iii. I. s. 3; Carter, TrareU,p. 128; Ukcrt, vol. u. pt. 1. p. 348.) [P. S.] LACMOX (Adjc/taw, Hecat Fr. 70; Herod, iz.92; Steph. B. t. p.) or LACMUS (Aok^oj, Strab.Ti. p. 271, vii. p. 316), the highest suinniit ofMount Pindus, tlie Zggot or ridge of ilebovo.This is geographically the most remarkable moun­tain in Greece; situated in the heart of Pindns asto its breadth, and centrally also in the longitudinalchain which pervades the continent from N. to S.:it gives rise to five principal rivers, in fact to allthe great streams of Northern Greece except theSpercheius; north-eastward to the Haliacmnn,south-eastward to the Peneius, southward to theAchclous, south-westward to the Aruchthiis, andnorth-westward to the Aous. (Leake, NorthernGreece, vol. i. pp.294,411—415, vol. iv. pp.240,261,276.) [E.B.J.] LACOBRI'GA. [ 1. Lusitania j 2. Vaccaki.]LACO'XIA, LACO'NICA, or LACKIJAEMON,the south-easterly district of Peloponnesus. I. Name. Its mast ancient name was Lacedaemm (Aaw-oafjuw), which is the only form found in Homer,who applies this name as well to the country, as toits capital. («. ii. 581, iii. 239, 244, Ac.) Theusual name in the Greek writers was I.aeonica(?) AattmuHi, so. fy), though the form LacedacmonMill continued to bo used. (Herod, vi. 58.) TheRomans called the country Laconica (Plin. xxv.8. s. 53; Laconics, Mela, ii. 3) or Laconia(Plin. vi. 34. s. 39, xvii. 18. s. 30), the latter ofwhich is the form usually employed by modemwriters. Mela (t. c.) also uses Laconis, which isborrowed from the Greek (i Aoxwvli 7aia, Horn.Hymn, in A poll. 410.) The Ethnic names areAaxmv, -uvos, AaKfoaiu.onov, Lat. Laco or Lacon,-nis, Lacedacmonius; fern. Arfxauu, Acuturfs, La-conis. These names are applied to the whole freepopulation of Laconia, both to the Spartan citizensand to the Penned, spoken of below (for authori­ties, see Clinton, F. //. vol. ii. pp. 405,406). Theyare usually derived from a mythical hero, Lacon orLaccdaemon; hut some modem writers think thatthe root Lac is connected with AdVtor, Advicor, lacut,liirunn, and was given originally to the. centraldistrict from its being deeply sunk between moun­tains. (Curtiua, Pclnponnetos, vol. ii. p. 309.) • II. General Description or the Cocktky. The natural features of Laconia are stronglymarked, and exercised a powerful influence upon thehistory of the people. It is a long valley, surroundedon three sides by mountains, and open only on thefourth to the sea. On the north it is bounded bythe southern harrier of the Arcadian mountains,from which run in a parallel direction towards thesouth, the two lofty mountain ranges of TaVgetusand Parnon, — the former dividing I.aconia andMrssenia, and terminating in the promontory ofTacnarum, now C. Matnpan, the southernmost ex­tremity oi (ircece and of Europe, the latter stretch­ing along the eastern eoast, and terminating inthe promontory of Malea. The river Eurotns Howsthrough the entire length of the valley lying between so mountain masses, and falls into the sea, wl.ich was called the Lawman gulf. I-aconia is well de­scribed bv Euripides as a country "hollow, sur­rounded by mountains, rugged, and difficult of treesto an enemy" (ap. Strab. viii. p. 366); and thedifficulty of invading it made even Epaminnndashesitate to enter it with his army. (Xen. Hell, r. 5.§ 10.) On the northern side there are only twonatural passes by which the plain of Sparta can beinvaded. (See below.) On the western side the loftymasses of Target us form an almost insurm>nntaM*barrier; and the pass across them, which WUinto the plain of Sjiarta, is so difficult as scarcelyto be practicable for an army. On the easternside the rocky character of the coast protects it frominvasion by sea. III. Mountains, Kivers, and Plains. Mount Tat<;i:ti;s (Tat-ytrov, to TqGyrrorupos, the common forms; Tatytrot, Lueian, frarvm.19; to. TaiyiTa, Polyacn. vii. 49; Taygeta. YTrg.Georg. ii. 487: the first half of this word is saidby Hesychins to signify great). This mountainis the loftiest in Peloponnesus, and extends in analmost unbroken line for the sp.iee of 70 miles fromL*<mdari in Arcadia to C. MatopaiK Ita vastheight, unbroken length, and majestic form, havebeen celebrated by both ancient and modem writers.Homer gives it the epithet of noip^mvor ( Od. vi.103), and a modem traveller remarks that, "whetherfrom ita real height, from the grandeur of its outlii.e,or the abruptness of its rise from the plain, it createdin his mind a stronger impression of stupendoushulk and loftiness than any mountain be bad Bern iiGreece, or perha|»s in any other part of Europe."(Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 221.) Taygetosrises to its greatest height immediately above Sjarta.Its principal summit was called Taletuji (T«A«Tcr)in antiquity: it was sacred to the Sun, and horxsand other victims were here sacrificed to this gi«i.(Paus. iii. 20. § 4.) It is now called S. Fling, towhose clmjfl on the summit an nttnual pilgrimageis made in the middle of the summer. Its brighthas been ascertained by the French Commission tobe 2409 metres, or 7902 English feet. Anothersummit near Taletum was called Evoras (Ei-oper.Belvedere, Paus. I r.), which Leake identifies withMt. Pazimiilhi, the highest snmmit next to St. Flint,from which it is distant 5} geographical mile*.The ancient names of none of the other heights arementioned. By the Byzantine writers Taygetua was calledPkntedactvi.im (vi ntmteLKTvKor), or tlm'* Five Fingers," on account of its various sum­mits aliove the Spartan plain. (Constant. pnrjjtyr.de Atlm. Imp. c. 50.) In the 13lh century itbore the name of MelinguM (o (uyos roi M<-\jyyov, see Leake, Prhpotmetiaca. p. 138). Atthe base of TaVgetus, immediately above the Spar­tan plain, there is a lower ridgr running paraJWIto the higher summits. This lower ridge ron*i»i»of huge projecting masses of precipitous rrk». n*ieof which are more than 2000 feet high, thooxutbey appear insignificant when coin|urcd with tbrlofty barrier of TaVgetus behind them. After at­taining its greatest elevation, Mt. TaVgetus siokjgradually down towards the south, and scrub 1 nha long and 1 >ftr rnuntcrfork towards the Eurotavnow called L;/h*bt'mi (AuKoGvvr t Wolfs-mountain),whieh bounds the Spirtan plain on the south. Itthere contracts again, and runs down, as the back­bone of a small peninsula, to the southernmost ex­