OCR Output 104 THE PELOP0NNESIAN WAR. Salamjs; and, that out of regard to him, he had preventedthe breaking down of the bridges, which was mere fiction ;)" and now, able to perform great services for you, I am" near at hand, having been persecuted by the Grecians" for my friendship to you. I beg only a year's respite," that I may notify to you in person those points which are" the subject of my journey hither." The king, it is said, was surprized at the spirit* of theman, and ordered him to act as he desired. The time ofrespite he had thus obtained he spent in making all possibleprogress in the Persian language, and in learning the man­ners of the country. When the year was elapsed, appearingat court, he became a favourite with the iing; a greater thanany Greek had ever been before, as well on account of theformer lustre of his life, as the hope he suggested to him ofenslaving Greece ; but above all, by the specimens he gaveof his fine understanding.—For, in Themistocles the strength • The boldness and intrepidity of Themistocles hath been the subject ofadmiration, in throwing himself on the protection of the Persian monarch,who had fixed a price on bis head. And yet be was so high in his esteem,that the night after first giving him audience, he cried aloud thrice in hiasleep, "1 have got Themistocles the Athenian." He afterwards acknow­ledged himself 200 talents (near 40,0001. sterling) in his debt; " For somuch I promised the man that brought you to me." Themistocles soongave him a specimen of his fine understanding. He was desired by theking to speak his mind freely in relation to the affairs of Greece : He an­swered by his interpreter, that " discourse, like a Persian carpet, had in ita variety of figures, which never appeared to advantage unless it was quiteunfolded, but were not to be apprehended, when wrapped up in the piece."By this ingenious plea he obtained a year's respite to learn the Persianlanguage, that he might be enabled to deliver explicitly his own sentimentsto the king in his own words and method. He became afterwards so greata favourite, that the most engaging promise in future times, that the Per­sian monarch could make to a Greek whom he had a mind to inveigle intohis service, was " that he should live with him as Themistocles did with" Artaxerxes." And yet no attachment to his royal friend ever made him anenemy to his country; nor did his disinterested patriotism, of which neverman had more, ever render him ungrateful to his benefactor. Through hisbounty, he lived the remainder of his life in pomp and affluence, and wasused to say humorously to his children, " We had been undone, mychildren, if we had not been undone."