OCR Output Chap. XV. . ANTIQUITIES OI' THE JEWS. 307 3. And now it was that Silo discovered that he had takenbribes: for he set a good number of his soldiers to complainaloud of want of provisions they were in, and to require moneyto buy them food, and that it was fit to let them go intoplaces proper for winter quarters, since the places near the citywere a desert, by reason that Antigonus' soldiers had carriedall away; so he set the army upon removing, and endeavouredto march away: But Herod pressed Silo not to depart; and ex­horted Silo's captains and soldiers not to desert him, when Cae­sar and Antony, and the senate, had sent him thither, for thathe would provide them plenty of all the things they wanted,and easily procure them a great abundance of what they re­quired; after which entreaty, he immediately went out intothe country, and left not the least pretence to Silo for his de­parture, for he brought an unexpected quantity of provisions,and sent to those friends of his who inhabited about Samaria,to bring down corn, and wine, and oil, and cattle, and all otherprovisions, to Jericho, thnt there might be no want of a supplyfor the soldiers for the time to come. Antigonus was sensibleof this, and sent presently over the country such as might re­strain and lie in ambush for those that went out for provisions.So these men obeyed the orders of Antigonus, and got togethera great number of armed men about Jericho, and sat upon themountains, and watched those that brought the provisions. How­ever, Herod was not idle in the meantime, for he took tenbands of soldiers, of whom five were of the Romans, and five ofthe Jews, with some mercenaries among them, and with somefew horsemen, and came to Jericho; and as they found the citydeserted, but that five hundred of them had settled themselveson the tops of the hills, with their wives and children, those hetook and sent away; but the Romans fell upon the city, andplundered it, andfound the houses full of all sorts of good things:So the king left a garrison at Jericho, and came back again, andsent the Roman army to take their winter quarters in the coun­tries that were come over to him, Judea and Galilee, and Sa­maria. And so much did Antigonus gain of Silo for the bribeshe gave him, that part of the army should be quartered at Lid-da, in order to please Antony. So the Romans laid their wea­pons aside, and lived in plenty of all things. 4. But Herod was not pleased with lying still, but sent outhis brother Joseph against Idumea with two thousand armedfootmen, and four hundred horsemen, while he himself cameto Samaria, and left his mother and his other relations there, forthey were already gone out of Massada, and went into Galilee,to take certain places which were held by the garrisons ot Anti­gonus; and he passed on to Senphoris, as God sent a snow, while VOL. II. Q Q 26