OCR Output 104 •"• DECLINE AND FALL [CHA?. XL. the Volga. A fortress, designed by Alexander, perhaps,or one of his successors, tocommand that importantpass, had descended by right of conquest or inheritance toa prince of the Huns, who offered it for a moderate priceto the emperor: but while Anastasius paused, while hetimorously computed the cost and the distance, a morevigilant rival interposed, and Cabades forcibly occupiedthe straits of Caucasus. The Albanian and Iberian gatesexcluded the horsemen of Scythia from the shortest andmost practicable roads, and the whole front of the moun­tains was covered by the rampart of Gog and Magog,the long wall which has excited the curiosity of an Ara­bian caliphb and a Russian conqueror.0 According-to arecent description, huge stones, seven feet thick, twenty-one feet in length, or height, are artificially joined with­out iron or cement, to compose a wall, which runs abovethree hundred miles from the shores of Derbend, overthe hills and through the valleys of Daghestan andGeorgia. Without a vision, such a work might be un­dertaken by the policy of Cabades; without a miracle, itmight be accomplished by his son, so formidable to theRomans under the name of Chosroes; so dear to theOrientals, under the appellation of Nushirwan. ThePersian monarch held in his hand the keys both of peaceand war; but he stipulated in every treaty, that Justinian-should contribute to the expense of a common barrier,which equally protected the two empires from the inroadsof the Scythians.d • ' - VII. Justinian suppressed the schools of Athens andthe consulship of Rome, which had given so many sages b The imaginary rampart of Cog and Magog, which was seriously explored andbelieved by a caliph of the ninth century, appears to be derived from the gates ofMoant Caucasus, and a vague report of the wall of China. (Geograph. Nuhiunsis, p.267—270. Memoires de l'Academie, tom. 31. p. 210—219.) 1 See a learned dissertation of Baier, dsmuro Cuucaseo, in Comment. Acad. Petro-pol. anu. 1726. tom. 1. p. 425—463. but it is destitute of a map or plan. When theCzar Peter I. became master of Derbend in the year 1722, the measure of the wall wasfound to be three thousand two hundred and eighty-five Russian wgygie, or fathom*each of seven feet English ; in the whole somewhat more than four mites in length.- 0 See the forti6cations and treaties of Chosroes or Nushirwan, in Procopius, (Per­sic. lib. 1. c. 16. 22. lib. 2.) and d'Herbeiot. (p. 682.)