OCR Output B. VIII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 197 When the land-army had quitted Teos, Tiflaphernesin person came thither with a body, and, after com­pletely demolishing those parts of the wall before Teoswhich were yet left standing, marched away. Not long after his departure, Diomedon, arrivingthere with ten fail of Athenians, in order to gain a re­ception, made a truce with the Teians. From thencehe coasted along to Eras, and assaulted the place; but,not being able to take it, he sailed away. Coinciding with this in point of time, an insurrectionwas made at Samos by the people against the nobility.The Athenians, who with three ships were then lyingat Samos, assisted the former. On this occasion theS&m'ian people massacred about two hundred persons, allof the nobility. Four hundred others they condemnedto exile; and, having divided amongst themselves theirlands and houses, and obtained from the Athenians adecree of being governed by their own constitutions, asmen whose sidelity was no longer to be suspected, theyassumed the whole civil administration, leaving no shareof it in the hands ofthe landed gentry, and absolutelyprohibiting to the people all alliance for the future withthem, so as neither to give their daughters to them norever to marry theirs. . - . After these transactions, during the same summer,the Chians, proceeding with unabating ardour, left no­thing undone to compass the revolt of the cities. Evenwithout Peloponnesian aid they made them visits withtheir own single force; and, desirous at the same timeto involve as large a number as possible in their owndangers, they undertake a voyage with thirteen failof ships to Lesbos. This squared exactly with the La­cedæmonian plan 1 which was to make the second ac-tempt upon that island, and from thence to proceed toHellespont. The land-force, at the same time, of suchPeloponnesians as were at hand, and their adjacent allies,attended their motions by the route of Clazomenæ andCyme: These were commanded by Eualas, a Spartan;