OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 253 Cologne, and Treves, the perpetual arch-chancellors ofGermany, Italy, and Arles. The great marshal, onhorseback, exercised his function with a silver measureof oats, which he emptied on the ground, and immedi­ately dismounted to regulate the order of the guests.The great steward, the count palatine of the Rhine,placed the dishes on the table. The great chamberlain,the margrave of Brandenburg, presented, after the re­past, the golden ewer and basin, to wash. The king ofBohemia, as great cupbearer, was represented by theemperor's brother, the duke of Luxemburgh and Bra­bant; and the procession was closed by the greathuntsman, who introduced a boar and a stag, with aloud chorus of horns and hounds.0 Nor was the su­premacy of the emperor confined to Germany alone;the hereditary monarchs of Europe confessed the pre­eminence of his rank and dignity; he was the first ofthe Christian princes, the temporal head of the greatrepublic of the west :p to his person the title of majestywas long appropriated; and he disputed with the popethe sublime prerogative of creating kings and assemblingcouncils. The oracle of the civil law, the learned Bar-tolus, was a pensioner of Charles IV. and his school re­sounded with the doctrine, that the Roman emperor wasthe rightful sovereign of the earth, from the rising tothe setting sun. The contrary opinion was condemned,not as an error, but as a heresy, since even the gospelhad pronounced, And there went forth a decree fromCccsar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed?Contrast of If we annihilate the interval of time and spacethepower between Augustus and Charles, strong anddesty of striking will be the contrast between the twougustus' Caesars; the Bohemian, who concealed hisweakness under the mask of ostentation, and the Ro­ "See the whole ceremony in Struvius, p. 629. P The republic of Europe, with the pope and emperor at its head, was neverrepresented with more dignity than in the council of Constance. See Leufant'aHistory of that assembly. i Gravina, Origines Juris C'ivilis, p. 108.