OCR Output DISCOURSE Til. Ixxvii the preceding. The incidents crowd fast upon one another,and politics and oratory are in full employ. The revolt ofLesbos is the first occurrence of importance. The peopleof that isle had been long in the Athenian league : But thenumber of this league were dependents rather than confe­derates. Thucydides always employs the same Greek word(<rvn/uix»i) for the members of either league: The idea itgives is that of companions in war. But there is great dif­ference between such as accompany, because they chuseit; and such as accompany, because they are summonedand cannot help it. The former was in general the case ofthose who sided with Sparta; the latter, of those who sidedwith Athens. The least thought of compulsion is grating toany State, which thinks it ought, and is able, to be quiteindependent. This was the case with the Lesbians, a peopleconsiderable in many respects, but especially for their navalstrength. It was well worth the while of the Lacedaemo-nions to gain such confederates ; it must be a sad blow tothe Athenians to lose such dependents. The fact was; allthe cities of Lesbos, except Methymne, declare a revolt.The Athenians lose no time, but are at once with a powerfulsquadron before Mitylene, and block it up. The Mityle-neans had sent ambassadors to beg immediate aid from theLacedaemonians. They had an audience from them andthe rest of their league at Olympia, so soon as the gameswere ended. The speech they make on this occasion is veryartful, very insinuating, and nicely adapted to carry theirpoint. " They open the nature of a revolt, and the cases in" which it merits protection and succour from others. They" have been ill used by the Athenians; have been made" their tools in inslaving their compatriots of Greece ; have" been long caressed indeed, but are well assured what their" own fate would soon have been. Every State hath a na-" tural right to take preventive measures against the loss of" their liberty, and to stand on their defence. They had