OCR Output Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 435 Roman augurs grown into a prolix system of various celestialomens and rules of conduct associated therewith; in theearlier portion of this period it was even directly enactedby the iElian and Fufian law, that every popular assemblyshould be compelled to disperse if it should occur to anyof the higher magistrates to look for signs of a thunder­storm in the sky; and the Roman oligarchy was proud ofthe cunning device which enabled them thenceforth by asingle pious fraud to impress the stamp of invalidity onany decree of the people. Conversely the Eoman oppositionrebelled against the ancient practice under which the fourprincipal colleges of priests tilled up their own ranks whenvacancies arose, and demanded the extension of popularelection to the stalls themselves, as it had been previouslyintroduced with reference to the presidents of these colleges(ii. 357). This was certainly inconsistent with the spiritof these corporations; but they had no right to complain ofit, after they had become themselves untrue to their spirit,and had played into the hands of the Government at itsrequest by furnishing religious pretexts for the annullingof political proceedings. This affair became an apple ofcontention between the parties: the senate beat off thefirst attack in 609, on which occasion the Scipionic circle i4.-,.especially turned the scale for the rejection of the proposal;on the other hand the project passed in 650 with the proviso 104.already made in reference to the election of the presidentsfor the benefit of scrupulous consciences, that not thewhole burgesses but only the lesser half of the tribesshould make the election (P. 204) ; finally Sulla restoredthe right of co-optation in its full extent (P. 362). "Withthis care on the part of the conservatives for the purenational religion it was of course quite compatible, thattheir very noblest circles should openly make a jest ofit. The practical side of the Roman priesthood was thepriestly cuisine; the augural and pontifical banquets wereas it were the official gala-days in the life of a Eomanepicure, and several of them formed epochs in the historyof gastronomy; the banquet on the accession of the augurQuintus Hortensius for instance brought roast peacocksinto vogue. Eeligion was also found very useful in givinggreater zest to scandal. It was a favourite recreation ofthe young nobles to disfigure or mutilate the images of thegods in the streets by night (P. 218). Ordinary love affairs