OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.} OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. master might alienate or destroy without being responsi­ble to any earthly tribunal. The hand which bestowedthe daily sustenance might resume the voluntary gift,and whatever was acquired by the labour or fortune ofthe son, was immediately lost in the property of the fa­ther. His stolen goods (his oxen or his children) mightbe recovered by the same action of theft ;m and if eitherhad been guilty of a trespass, it was in his own option tocompensate the damage, or resign to the injured partythe obnoxious animal. At the call of indigence or ava­rice, the master of a family could dispose of his childrenor his slaves. But the condition of the slave was farmore advantageous, since he regained by the first manutmission his alienated freedom: the son was again re­stored to his unnatural father; he might be condemned,to servitude a second and a third time, and it was nottill after the third sale and deliverance," that he was en>franchised from the domestic power which had been sorepeatedly abused. According to his discretion, a fathermight chastise the real or imaginary faults of his chil*dren, by stripes, by imprisonment, by exile, by sendingthem to the country to work in chains among the mean­est of his servants. The majesty of a parent was armedwith the power of life and death;° and the examples ofsuch bloody executions, which were sometimes praisedand never punished, may be traced in the annals of,Rom,e, beyond the times of Pompey and Augustus.Neither age, nor rank, nor the consular office, nor thehonours of a triumph, could exempt the most illustriouscitizen from the bonds of filial subjection :p his own de- ■» Pandect.-lib. il. tit. 2. leg. 14. no. 13. leg. 38. no. 1. Suoh was the decisionof Ulpian and Paul.' < Th&trin'a mancipatio is most clearly defined bj Ulpian (Fragment. 10. p. 591,592. edit. Schulting), and best illustrated in the Antiquities of Heineccias. 9 By Justinian, the old law, the jns necis of the Roman father, (fnstltut. lib. 4.lit. 9. no. 7), is reported and reprohated. Some legal vestiges are left in the Pan­dects, (lib. 43. tit. 29. leg. 3. no. 4.) and the Collatio Leguni Romanaruni at Mosai-caram. (tit. 2. no. 3. p. 189.) P Except on public occasions, and in the actual exercise of his office. Inpnblicislocis atqne muneribus, atque actionibus patrum, jura cam filiorum qui in magistrat asunt, potestatibus collata interqoiescere paululum et connivere, &c. (Aal.Gelliun,