OCR Output 204 ROMAN EMPIRE. the walls of Pavia, were the only defence of the Lom­bards; the former were surprised, the latter were in­vested, by the son of Pepin; and after a blockade ofConquest two years, Desiderius, the last of their nativebanty'by princes, surrendered his sceptre and his capi-Charie- tal Under the dominion of a foreign king, magne,' . . A.D.774. but in the possession of their national laws, theLombards became the brethren rather than the subjectsof the Franks; who derived their blood, and manners,and language, from the same Germanic origin.11Pepin and The mutual obligations of the popes and theCharie- Carlovingian family, form the important link ofkings of ancient and modern, of civil and ecclesiastical,A.D. 75i. history. In the conquest of Italy, the champions rss. 768. Qf i^e Roman church obtained a favourable oc­casion, a specious title, the wishes of the people, theprayers and intrigues of the clergy. But the most es­sential gifts of the popes to the Carlovignian race werethe dignities of king of France,1 and of patrician ofRome. I. Under the sacerdotal monarchy of St. Peter,the nations began to resume the practice of seeking, onthe banks of the Tiber, their kings, their laws, and theoracles of their fate. The Franks were perplexed be­tween the name and substance of their government. Allthe powers of royalty were exercised by Pepin, mayorof the palace; and nothing, except the regal title, waswanting to his ambition. His enemies were crushedby his valour; his friends were multiplied by his libera­ pudiated sine aliquo crimine. Pope Stephen IV. had most furiously opposed thealliance of a noble Frank — cum perfida, horrida, nee dicenda, ffetentissima nationeLangobardorum — to whom he imputes the first stain of leprosy. (Cod. Carolin.efiist. 45. p. 178, 179.) Another reason against the marriage was the existence ofa first wife. (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 6. p. 232, *33. 236, 237.) But'Charlemagne indulged himself in the freedom of polygamy or concubinage. '1 See the Annali d'ltalia of Muratori, torn. 6. and the three first dissertationsof bis Antiquitatea Italis Medii /Kvj , torn. 1. 'Besides the common historians, three French critics, Launoy, (Opera, torn. 5.pars 2. lib. 7. epist. 9. p. 477 — 487.) Pagi,(Critica. A.D. 751. no. 1. 6. A.D.T5S.no. 1-10.) and Natalis Alexander, (Hist . NoviTestamenti.dissertat. 2. p. «6— 107.)have treated this subject of the deposition of Childeric with learning and attention,but with a strong bias to save the independence of the crown. Vet they are hardpressed by the text which they produce of Eginhard, Theophanes, and the oldannals, Laureshamemus, Fuldensis, Loisielani.