OCR Output Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. SOI sent it to his brother Pheroras, by way of punishment for theirslain brother, for he was the man that slew Joseph. Now aswinter was going off, Herod marched to Jerusalem, and broughthis army to the wall of it; this vas the third year s>ince hehad been made king at Rome; so he pitched his camp beforethe temple, for on that side it might be besieged, and there itwas that Pompey took the city. So he parted the work amongthe army, and demolished the suburbs, and raised three banks,and gave orders to have towers built upon those banks, and leftthe most laborious of his acquaintance at the works. But hewent himself to Samaria, to take the daughter of Alexander,the son of Aristobulus to wife, who had been betrothed to himbefore, as we have already said; and thus he accomplished thisby the bye, during the siege of the city, for he had his enemyin great contempt already. 9. When he had thus married Mariamne, he came back to Je­rusalem w ith a greater army; Sosius also joined him with alarge army, both of horsemen and footmen, which he sent be­fore him through the midland parts, while he marched himselfalong Phenicia; and when the whole army was gotten together,which were eleven regiments of footmen, and six thousandhorsemen, besides the Syrian auxiliaries, which was no smallpart of the army, they pitched their camp near to the north wall.Herod's dependence was upon the decree of the senate, by whichhe was made king, and Sosius relied upon Antony, who sentthe army that was under him to Herod's assistance. CHAP. XVIII. How Herod and Sosius took Jerusalem by force; and what deathAntigonus came to. Alto concerning Cleopatra's aiiariciouttemper. § 1. "^T'OW the multitude of the Jews that were in the city-L\l were divided into several factions; for the people ihatcrowded about the temple, being the weaker part of them,gave it out, that as the times were, he was the happiest andmost religious man who should die first. But as to the morebold and hardy men, they got together in bodies, and fell a rob­bing others after various manners, and these particularly plun­dered the places that were about the city, and this because therewas no food left either for the horses or the men; yet some ofthe warlike men xvlio were used to fight regularly, were ap­pointed to defend the city during the siege, and these drovethose that raided the banks aivay from the wall, and these werealways inventing one engine or another to be an hindrance to tl*