OCR Output 34 VALUE OF GOLD. 18. WHEN THE CEILINGS 7 WEEF. FIRST GILT.8 The ceilings which now, even in private houses, are coveredwith gold, were first gilt in the Capitol, after the destruction ofCarthage, during the censorship of L. Mummius. The practicewas afterwards adopted with respect to the ceilings, and the wallsof houses, so that these latter were ornamented with gold like ves­sels; there were, however, various opinions entertained at thetime, respecting Catulus, the person who first gilt the brazen tilesof the Capitol. 19, FROM WHAT CAUSES OUR ESTIMATION OF GOLD IS PRINCIPALLY DERIVED. I have given an account of the first discovery of gold, as wellas of the other metals, in the 7th book.' I do not suppose thatthis metal became so much esteemed in consequence of its colour,for that of silver is more brilliant, and more like the light of day,and therefore more suitable for military ensigns, since its splendourwould cause it to be seen at a greater distance. They are obvi- '"Laquearia" or "Lacunaria." The first of these words is used in thetitle of the section, the second in the text itself; hence, it appears, that theywere employed indiscriminately; see also the note in Valpy, p. 4612. Theymean the spaces left between the beams in the ceilings, technically calledcoffers; as well as in other parts of buildings; Vitruvius, iv. 8; vi. 6;vii. 2. Baldus, in his Lexicon Vitruvianum, under the word Lacunar, re­marks, "Lacunaria contignationes sunt." Newton, Trans, of Vitruvius,note in p. 73, describes the Lacunaria to be "coffers or pannels usuallyformed in the soffites of the corona or architrave, as well as in the ceilings,&c." It appears, however, to have been used to signify the ceiling gene­rally; as by Cicero, " .... fulgentem gladium e lacunari — demitti jussit."Tus. Quest, v. 21; and by Horace, "Non ebur neque aureum mea renidetin domo lacunar." Od. ii. 18. 1, 2, by Juvenal, "doctus spectare lacunar,"i. 56, and by Persius, "Et magis aureis pendens laquearibus ensis," iii. 40.It may, therefore, not improbably, be used in this general sense by ourauthor. Rhode supposes that it was employed in this sense by Vitruvius, in -the passage in vii. 2; see lexicon, in loco. 8 We learn from various passages in the Old Testament, that certain partsof Solomon's Temple were covered with gold; see 1 Kings, vi. 21, 2;1 Chron. xxix. 4; 2 Chron. iii. 7, 8, 9. » Lib. 7. §. 57. p. 1424; "Auri metalla et conflaturam, Cadmus Phoenixad Pangseum montem (invenit) &c."