OCR Output NICOPOLIS. 427 NIDUM. the outer port; and there can be little doubt that the»er>nJ harbour, intended by Strabo, was the port ofI ''. / within the gulf, the distance of which fromNicopolis corresponds to the 12 stadia of Strabo, andwhere there are some Roman ruins a little withinand on the eastern shore of the creek. The port ofComarns was doubtless at Mytika, but the name ofComoro is) now given to the wide bay north ofMytih, 1 he rains of Nicopolis are now called Paleopri-rests. On approaching them from Prevail, thetraveller first comes to some small arched buildingsof brick, which were probably sepulchres, beyondwhich are the remains of a strong wall, probably thesouthern enclosure of the city. Near the south­western extremity of tbe lagoon Mdzoma, is thePaieiittutro* or castle. It is an irregular pentagonalenclosure, surrounded with walls and with squaretowers at intervals, about 25 feet in height. Onthe western side, the walls are most perfect, nnd heretoo is the principal gatei The extent of tbe enclosureK about a quarter of a mile. The variety of marblefragments and even the remains of inscriptions oftbe time of the Roman Empire, inserted in themasonry, prove the whole to have been a repair,though perhaps upon the site of the original acro-;••!.-. and restored so as to have been sufficiently largeto receive the diminished population of the place. Itmay have been, as Leake conjectures, the work ofJustinian, who restored Nicopolis. Three hundred yards westward of the Pakokastronare the remains of a small theatre but little dilapi­dated. Col. Leake says that it appears to be about200 feet in diameter; but Lieut. Wolfe describes itas only 60 feet in diameter. Being built upon levelground, the back or highest part is entirely sup­ported npon an arched corridor. Between this iur or tiik NF.iuunoL'iuiooD or sicopolis. A .' XlropoIIS. B. Part Cemarui. Mittta. C. p»rt »«Mj.I)LrSt La Pwata. theatre and the shore, are the ruins of a quadran­gular building of brick, which was perhaps a palace,as it has numerous apartments, with many niches inthe walls fur statues, and some remains of a stonepavement It stands just within an aqueduct, sup­ported upon arches, which entered Nicopolis on thenorth, and was 30 miles in length. Considerableremains of it are met with in different parts ofEpeirus. Farther north, at the foot of a range of hills, arethe remains of the great theatre, which is the mostconspicuous object among the ruins. It is one of thebest preserved Roman theatres in existence. Thetotal diameter is about 300 feet. The scene is 120feet long, and 30 in depth. There are 27 rows ofseats in three divisions. From the back of thetheatre rises the hill of Mikhalitzi, which was un­doubtedly the site of the tent of Augustus before thebattle of Actium. Close to the theatre are theruins of the stadium, which was circular at bothends, unlike all the other stadia of Greece, butsimilar to several in Asia Minor, which hare beenconstructed or repaired by the Romans. Below thestadium are Borne ruins, which are perhaps those ofthe gymnasium, since we know from Strabo (vii. p.325) that the gymnasium was near the stadium.The accompanying map is taken from Lieut. Wolfe'ssurvey. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 185,seq.; Wolfe, in Journal of Geogr. Soc. vol. iii. p.92, seq.) com of mcoroijs IS i.rrint .-;. 2. A town of Thrace, not fnr from the month ofthe Nessus, and therefore called by Ptolemy (iii. 11.§ 13) Niko'to\ij ») xtp\ Nfooov. It appearsto have been founded by Trajan, as it is gurnamedUlpia upon coins. The Scholiast upon Ptolemysays that it was subsequently named Christopolis;but it is still called Nicopolis by Socrates (//". J?,vii. 36) and Hierncles (p. 635). 3. A town of Thrace at tbe foot of Mt. Haemus.(Ptol. iii. 11. § 11.) 4. A town of Thrace, situated at the place wherethe Iatrus flows into the Danube, and erected byTrajan in memory of his victory over the Dacians.(Amm. Marc. xxxi. 5 ; Joniand. rfe Jieb. Get. c. 18;Hierocl. p. 636.) NICO'TERA (Nicotera), a town of Bruttium,known only from the Antonine Itinerary (pp. 106,111), which places it 18 M. P. south of ViboValentia, on the road to Rhegium. It is repeatedlymentioned in the middle ages, and .'till exists underits ancient name as a considerable town and anepiscopal see. [E. H. B.] NIDUM or NIDUS, a town of Britain, situatedaccording to the Itinerary (p. 484), on the road fromIsca Dumnnniorum to Isca Silurum.and consequentlyin the territory of the Belgae. This site, however,is in all probability false; and it appears rather tohave been a town of the Silures, the modern Neath,on the river of that name in Glamorganshire.(Camden, p. 735.) [T. H. D.]