OCR Output B. III. YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. 291 select party, was posted there over-against the Messeniansand Demosthenes. No sooner was the battle joined, and the Peloponnesianson that wing were moving forward their superior numbersto surround the right of their adversaries, than the Acarna-nians, starting up from their ambuscade, falling upon themin the rear, assault and put them to flight. They gave waybefore the very first shock, and struck such a consternationinto the bulk of the army, that they also began to run: Forthey no sooner saw the party with Eurylochus, and whichwas the flower of their strength, intirely broke, than they felta panic for themselves. And the Messenians, who foughtat the same post with Demosthenes, behaved so very wellthat they finished the rout. The Ambraciots in the meantime, and those in the right, had got the better of their oppo­nents, and were pursuing them towards Argos ; for, beyonda doubt, they are the most warlike people of any in thoseparts. But when they were returned from the pursuit, theyperceived the bulk of their army was defeated; and the restof the Acarnanians beginning to charge them, with much dif­ficulty they threw themselves into Olpae. The number of theslain was great, as they had made their attacks without anyorder, and with the utmost confusion: We must except theMantineans, who kept most firmly together, and retreated inthe best order of the whole enemy. The battle was endedonly with the night. The next morning, as Eurylochus was killed and Maca-rius also, the command devolved upon Menedaeus. The de­feat was irrevocably great, and he was highly perplexed—whether he should abide a siege, in which he must not onlybe shut up by land, but by the Athenian ships be blockedup also by sea—or, whether he should ei.deavour to securehis retreat. At length—he treats with Demosthenes andthe Acarnanians for a suspension of arms both for his owndeparture and the fetching off the dtad. The dead theyat once delivered, and set up atrophy themselves, and took