OCR Output 86 THE PELOPOKNESIAN WAR. of force, they landed upon the island, overthrew the Samiansin battle, invested their city with a triple wall, and at thesame time blocked it up by sea. But Pericles, drawing off sixty of the ships from this ser­vice, steered away with all possible expedition towards Cau-nus and Caria, upon receiving advice that " a Phoenician" fleet is coming up against them." Stesagoras also andothers had before been sent from Samos with five ships tomeet that fleet. In this interval, the Samians launched outin a sudden sally, fell upon the unfortified station* of theAthenians, sunk the vessels moored at a distance, by way ofguard, and engaging those who put out against them, victo­riously executed their purpose, were masters of their own seafor fourteen days continuance, and made whatever importa­tions or exportations they pleased: But, as Pericles then re­turned, they were again blocked up by seaf. He afterwardsreceived fresh supplies from Athens, forty ships under Thu-cydides and Agnon and Phormio, and twenty under Tlepo-lemus and Anticles, beside thirty others from Chios andLesbos. And though after this the Samians ventured a shortengagement at sea, yet they now found all farther resistanceimpracticable, so that in the ninth month of the siege theysurrendered on the following terms—" To demolish theirwalls ; to give hostages ; to deliver up their shipping ; andto reimburse by stated payments the expences of the • When the Grecians continued long on a station, or were apprehensiveof being attacked by an enemy, they fortified their naval station and camptowards the land with a ditch and rampart, and towards the sea with apalisade. At other time a number of their ships lay out more to sea, byway of guard or watch to the rest, which were generally dragged ashore,whilst the soldiers lay round them in their tents. Sometimes they wereonly moored to the shore, or rode at anchor, that they might be ready uponon alarm. See Potter'* Archxologia, Vol. II. c. 20. f The manner of doing this was " to environ the walls and harbour" with ships, ranged in order from one side of the shore lo the other, and" so closely joined together by chains and bridges, on which armed men" were placed, that without breaking their order, there could be no pas-" asage from the town to the aea." Potter's Archtologia.