OCR Output 308 LIVY. and the Rhodians pressed Philip vigorously, they mighthave acquired the illustrious title of the deliverers ofGreece; hut by suffering him to pass over again intoHellespontus, and to strengthen himself by seizing theadvantageous posts in Greece, they increased the diffi­culties of the war, and yielded up to the Romans theglory of having conducted and finished it. 16. Philip acted with a spirit more becoming aking; for, though he had found himself unequal tothe forces of Attalus and the Rhodians, yet he wasnot dismayed, even by the prospect of an approachingwar with the Romans. Sending Philocles, one of hisgenerals, with two thousand foot and two hundredhorse to ravage the lands of the Athenians, he gavethe command of his fleet to Heraclides, with orders tosail to Maronea, and marched thither himself by land,with two thousand foot lightly equipped, and twohundred horse. Maronea he took at the first as­sault; and, afterwards, with a good deal of trouble,got possession of jEnus, which was at last betrayed tohim by Ganymede, who commanded there for Pto­lemy. He then seized on other forts, Cypselus, Do-riscos, and Serrheus; and, advancing from thence tothe Chersonesus, received Elaeus and Alopeconnesus,which were surrendered by the inhabitants. Callipo-lis also and Madytos were given up to him, with se­veral forts of but little consequence. The people ofAbydus shut their gates against him, not sufferingeven his ambassadors to enter the place. The siegeof this city detained Philip a long time; and it mighthave been relieved, if Attalus and the Rhodians hadacted with any vigor. The king sent only three hun­dred men for a garrison, and the Rhodians one quadri-reme from their fleet, although it was lying idle atTenedos: and afterwards, when the besieged couldwith difficulty hold out any longer, Attalus, going overin person, did nothing more than show them somehope of relief being near, giving not any real assist­ance to these his allies either by land or sea. 17. At first the people of Abydus, by means of