OCR Output 33G LIVY. rounded on all sides, there was reason to think thatthe Roman might put an end to the war without stirringfrom his seat. Philip, however, considered, that afterhis cavalry had been defeated in two engagements, hecould with much less safety continue in the same post;accordingly, wishing to remove from thence, and atthe same time to keep the enemy in ignorance of hisdesign, he sent a herald to the consul a little beforesunset, to demand a truce for the purpose of buryingthe horsemen; and thus imposing on him, he beganhis march in silence, about the second watch, leavinga number of fires in all parts of his camp. 39. The consul had already retired to take refresh­ment, when he was told that the herald had arrived,and on what business: he gave him no other answerthan that he should be admitted to an audience earlythe next morning: by which means Philip gained whathe wanted, the length of that night and part of the fol­lowing day, during which he might march his troopsbeyond the enemy's reach. He directed his routetowards the mountains, a road which he knew the Ro­mans, with their heavy baggage, would not attempt.The consul, having at the first light dismissed the he­rald, with a grant of a truce, in a short time after dis­covered that the enemy had gone off; but not knowingwhat course to take in pursuit of them, he remained inthe same camp for several days, which he employed incollecting forage. He then marched to Stubera, andbrought thither, from Pelagonia, the corn that was inthe fields. From thence he advanced to Pellina, nothaving yet discovered to what quarter the Macedonianhad bent his course. Philip having at first fixed hiscamp at Bryanium, marched thence through cross­roads, and gave a sudden alarm to the enemy. TheRomans, on this, removed from Pellina, and pitchedtheir camp near the river Osphagus. The king alsosat down at a small distance, forming his intrenchmenton the bank of the river Erigonus. Having there re­ceived certain information that the Romans intendedto proceed to Eordaea, he marched away before them.