OCR Output CHAP. 60. ROMAN HISTORY. 289 of their tribunes, gave a very seasonable check to theimmoderate stretch of power; " declaring, that enoughhad been done, both for the security of their liberties,and the punishment of their enemies; and thereforehe wouM sutler no person to be cited to a trial, norcommitted to prison, during the remainder of the year.With respect to the past, to revive the remembrance ofold faults, which ought to be buried in oblivion, nowthat the decemvirs, in their punishment, had expiatednew ones, would be highly improper. With respectto the future, the steady and unanimous zeal of bothconsuls in guarding the liberty of the people, would besufficient security that nothing will happen to requirethe interposition of the tribunes."This moderation of the tribunes, served in the firstplace to dispel the fears of the senators, but on the otherhand increased their aversion to the consuls, who haddeclared so openly and so entirely for the people, that aPlebeian magistrate should see cause to take upon himthe interest and safety of the senate before a Patrician;and that their enemies had been satisfied with revenge,before the consuls took any measure for opposing theirlicentiousness. Many blamed their own negligence andfacility, in giving their sanction to the laws passed bythose consuls in favour of the people; and it was suffi­ciently obvious, that nothing but the distracted state ofthe Republic had obliged them to comply with the*times. CHAP. LX. . An action with the JEqui and Volsci. X HE domestic troubles being thus settled, and the li­berty of the people firmly established, the consuls wenteach into his respective province. Valerius, by a master­ly stroke of policy, supported the war against the 55quiand Volsci, whose armies were joined at the Aigidus.Had he immediately risked a battle, it is hard to say,considering how the courage of the parties stood aflect-ed, after what happened when the decemvirs command­ed, whether it would not have been of dangerous con­sequence. He kept the army close within their lines,