OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 369 fear of him, yielded to what he required of them, but for suchas were of a more open and generous disposition, and had indig足nation at the force he used to them, he by one means or othermade away with them. He endeavoured also to persuade Polliothe Pharisee, and Sameas, and the greatest part of their scholars,to take the oath; but these would neither submit so to do, norwere they punished together with the rest, out of the reve足rence he bore to Pollio. The Essens also, as we call a sect ofours, were excused from this imposition. These men live thesame kind of life as do those whom the Greeks call Pythagoreans,concerning whom I shall discourse more fully elsewhere. How足ever, it is but fit to set down here the reasons wherefore Herodhad these Essens in such honour, and thought higher of themthan their mortal nature required; nor will this account beunsuitable to the nature of this history, as it will show theopinion men had of these Essens. Now there was one of these Essens, whose name was Ma-nnhem, who had this testimony, that he not only conducted hislife after an excellent manner, but had the foreknowledge of fu足ture events given him by God also. This man once saw Herodwhen he was a child, and going to school, and saluted him asking of the Jews; but he thinking that either he did not knowhim, or that he was in jest, put him in mind that he wasbut a private man, but Manahem smiled to himself, and clappedhim on his backside with his hand, and said, " However that be"thou wilt be king, and wilt begin thy reign happily, for God"finds thee worthy of it. And do thou remember the blows"that Manahem hath given thee, as being a signal of the change"of thy fortune. And truly this will be the reasoning for thee,"that thou love justice [towards men,] and piety towards God,"and clemency towards thy citizens; yet do I know how thy"whole conduct will be, that thou wilt not be such a one, for"thou wilt excel all men in happiness, and obtain an everlasting"reputation, but wilt forget piety and righteousness; and these"crimes will not be concealed from God, at the conclusion of"thy life, when thou wilt find that he will be mindful of them,"and punish thee for them." Now at that time Herod did notat all attend to what Manahem said, as having no hopes of suchadvancement; but a little afterward, when he was so fortunateas to be advanced to the dignity of king, and was in the heightof his dominion, he sent for Manahem, and asked him, How longhe should reign? Manahem did not tell him the full length ofhis reign, wherefore, upon that silence of his, he asked him,farther, Whether he should reign ten years or not? he replied,"Yes, twenty, nay, thirty years," but did not assign the justdeterminate limit of his reign. Herod was satisfied with these