OCR Output 332 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the restitution of the remainder to the rightful pro-xx' prietors. The citizens of London, who had almostdespaired of their safety, threw open their gates ; andas soon as Theodosius had obtained from the court ofTreves the important aid of a military lieutenant,and a civil governor, he executed, with wisdom andvigour, the laborious task of the deliverance of Bri足tain. The vagrant soldiers were recalled to theirstandard: an edict of amnesty dispelled the publicapprehensions; and his cheerful example alleviatedthe rigour of martial discipline. The scattered anddesultory warfare of the Barbarians, who infested theland and sea, deprived him of the glory of a signalvictory; but the prudent spirit, and consummate art,A. D. 308 0f the Roman general, were displayed in the opera- and 309. . . & .' , . , 1 .3 . , , r. tions oi two campaigns, which successively rescuedevery part of the province from the hands of a crueland rapacious enemy. The splendour of the cities,and the security of the fortifications, were diligentlyrestored, by the paternal care of Theodosius; whowith a strong hand confined the trembling Caledo足nians to the northern angle of the island; and per足petuated, by the name and settlement of the newprovince of Valentia, the glories of the reign of Va-lentinian *. The voice of poetry and panegyric mayadd, perhaps with some degree of truth, that the un足known regions of Thule were stained with the bloodof the Picts; that the oars of Theodosius dashedthe waves of the Hyperborean ocean; and that thedistant Orkneys were the scene of his naval victoryover the Saxon pirates t. He left the province * Ammianus has concisely represented (xx. 1. xxvi. 4. xxvii. 8. xxviii. 3.)the whole series of the British war. .f Horrescit ... ratibus ... impervia Thule.Ille ... nec falso nornine PictosEdomuit. Scotumque vago mucrone secutusFregit Hyperboreas remis audacibus undas. Claudian, in iii Cons. Honorii, ver. 53, &c. Maduerunt Saxone fuso Orcades: incaluit Pictorum sanguine Thule.Scotorum cumulos flevit glacialis Ierne. Iniv Cons. lion. ver. 31, &c