OCR Output LONGUM PROMONTORIUM. 205 I.OTOPHAGI LOXGUM PROMONTORIUM. [Sicilia.] LOXGUS, in North Britain, mentioned by Pto­lemy (ii. 3) as a river to the north of the Epi-diau Promontory (Mull of Cantyre). Identitiesin the iionumtnta Britanniea with Lynntltch,lnerloehy, and Loch Melfort. [R. G. L.] LOPADUSSA (AoToSuOo-tro, Strab. xvii. p. 834;AoroSoiwii, Ptol. iv. 3. § 34: Lampedusa), a smallisland off the E. coast of Africa Propria, opposite tothe town of Thapsus, at the distance of 80 stadia,according to an ancient Periplus (Iriarte, Bibl. MatriLCod. Grate, p. 488). Pliny places it about 50 M. P.N. of Cercina, and makes its length about 6 M. P.(Plin. iii. 8. s 14, v. 7. s. 7.) It really lies about60 English miles E. of Thapsus, and about 90 NE.ofCerrina. [P. S.] L0PH1S. [Boeotia, p. 413, a.] LOPOSAGIUM, in Gallia, is placed by the Tablebetween Vesontio (Besaneon) and Epamanduodui urn(Uandeure). It is xiii. leagues from Vesontio. D'An-rille supposes tliat it may be a place called Baumes-fet-.Vones: others guess Bauntes-les-Dames, or aplace near it named Luciol or Luriol. [G. L.] LOPSICA (AA|«*a), a town of Libumia, whichPtolemy (ii. 16. § 2; comp. Plin. iii. 25) placesnear the mouth of the river Tedanius (Zermagna):perhaps the same place as the Ostki.a of theGeosrapher of Ravenna. [E. B. J.] LO'KIUM, or LAU'RIUM, a village in SouthernEtmria and station on the Via Aurelia, 12 milesfr.m Rome. (/tin. Ant. p. 290; Tab. Peut.) Itii chiefly known from the circumstance that the£mily of Antoninus Pius had a villa there, in whichthat emperur was brought up, and where he after­wards constructed a palace or villa on a more mag­nificent scale, which was his place of residence atthe time of his death. (Jul. Capit. Ant. P. 12;Vict, it Cats. 15, Epit. 15; Eutrop viii. 8.) Itwa» afterwards a favourite place of resort with hissuccessor M. Aurelius, as we learn from his letterstoFronto (Pronto, Ep. ii. 18, iii. 20, vi. 3, &c);hot had already fallen into decay in the timeof Capitolinus, who speaks only of its ruins Noother mention of Laurium occurs except in theItineraries, by which we are enabled to fix itspRitiffl with certainty. The 12th mile from Romeopacities with a bridge over a small stream between> farm called Botlaccia and the Caitel di Guido:here the remains of ancient buildings and sepulchreshire been found; and on the high ground above arethe rains of an edifice of a more extensive andMcoptooos character, which, from the style ofconstruction, may probably have belonged to thevilia of the Antonines. (Nibby, vol. ii. p. 271.)The name is variously written Lorium, Lorii, andUiriam, but the first form, which is that adoptedin tie epistles of pronto and M. Aurelius, is theheit warranted. The place appears to have con­tinued to be inhabited during the early ages ofC'brUlianity, and we even meet with a bishop ofLflriam in the 5th century. [E. H. B.] L0 BY MA (tA Aipvua), a small fortified placewith a port, close to Cape Cynossema, on the westeru-mo»t point of the Khodian Chersonesus, in Caria.Iti harbour was about 20 Roman miles distant fromBaodra. (Lir. xxxvii. 17, xlv. 10; Steph. B.«.r.; Plin. r. 29 j Ptol. v. 2. § 11; Thncyd. viii.41; Senec (juaesL fi'at. iii. 19 ; Appian, Bell. Civf. 72.) Strabo (xiv. p. 652) applies the namel*rrroa to the whole of the rocky district, withoutEoiiuoing the town. The Larumna of Mela (i. 16) and the Lorimna of the Tab. Peut. perhapsrefer to Loryma, although it is also possible thatthey may be identical with a place called La-rynina mentioned by Pliny in the same district.Leake (Aria Minor, p. 223) regards the ruins inthe west of Port Aplotheca as belonging to the an­cient town of Loryma. These ruins are seen on thespur of a hill at the south-western entrance of theport; the town was long and narrow, running fromwest to cast; on each of its long sides there are stillvisible six or seven square towers, and one largeround one at each end : the round tower at the eastend is completely demolished. The walls are pre­served almost to their entire height, and built in thebest style, of large square blocks of limestone. To­wards the harbour, in the north, the town had nogate, and on the south side alone there appear threerather narrow entrances. In the interior no remainsof buildings are discernible, tho ground consisting ofthe bare rock, whence it is evident that the placewas not a town, but only a fort. Sculptures and in­scriptions have not been found either within oroutside the fort, but several tombs with bare stelae,and some ruins, exist in the valley at the head ofthe harbour. (Ross, Reisen auf den O'riech. Inseln,vol. iv. pp. 46. &c.) [L. S.] LORNE, a fortress in Mesopotamia, situated onthe northern frontier, upon Mount Izala. (Amm.Marc. xix. 9.) LOSA, a station in Gallia Aquitania. placed bythe Antonine ltin. on the road from Pompelo (Pam-pelona) in Spain to Burdigala (Bordeaux). FromSegosa (Escousse or Escoursc) to Losa is xii.(leagues), from Losa to Boii [Bon] xii., and fromBoii to Burdigala xvi. D'Anville conjectures Losato be at a little canton, as lie calls it, named Leche.Walckenaer fixes it at IheBoisde Licogas. [G. L.] LOSO'HIUM (Aotrdpioy), a fortress in Lazica,built by Justinian (Procop. de Atd. iii. 7), whichDubois de Montpereux ( Voyage Autour du Caucase,vol. ii. p. 360) identifies with the modern village ofLoussiatklteri. [E. B. J.] LOSSONUS. |"Ot>oosotw.]LOTO'PHAGl (AuTotpdyot, i. e. lotus-eaters), apeople on the N. coast of Africa, between the Syrtes,who first appear in mythical, but afterwards in his- j torical geography. Homer (Od. ix. 84, et seqq.) J represents Ulysses as coming, in his wanderings, tothe coast of the Lotophagi, who compassed thedestruction of his companions by giving them thelotus to eat. Por whoever of them ate the sweet , fruit of the lotus, lost all wish to return to hisnative country, but desired to remain- there with the i Lotophagi, feeding on the lotus, and forgetful ofreturn. (The poetical idea is exquisitely wroughtout by Tennyson in his Lotos-Eaters, works, vol. i. I pp. 175—184.) The Greeks of the historicalperiod identified the country of these Lotus-eaterswith the coast between the Syrtes, where they foundan indigenous tribe, who used to a great extent(Herodotus says, as their sole article of food) thefruit of a plant, which they therefore supposed to bethe lotus of Homer. To this day, the aboriginalinhabitants who live in caves along the samecoasts eat the fruit of the plant, which is doubtlessthe lotus of the ancients, and drink a wine madefrom its juice, as the ancient Lotophagi also did(Herod, iv. 177). This plant, the /.izyphus iMusor Rhamnus Lotus (jujube tree) of the botanists(called by the Arabs Seedra), is a prickly branchingshrub, bearing fruit of the size of a wild plum, of a