OCR Output 448 ROMAN EMPIRE. that the governor of Cordova is recorded as the only chiefwho fell, without conditions, a prisoner into their hands.The cause of the Goths had been irrevocably judged inthe field of Xeres; and, in the national dismay, eachpart of the monarchy declined a contest with the anta­gonist who had vanquished the united strength of thewhole." That strength had been wasted by two succes­sive seasons of famine and pestilence; and the governors,who were impatient to surrender, might exaggerate thedifficulty of collecting the provisions of a siege. Todisarm the Christians, superstition likewise contributedher terrors; and the subtle Arab encouraged the reportof dreams, omens, and prophecies, and of the portraits ofthe destined conquerors of Spain, that were discoveredon breaking open an apartment of the royal palace. Yeta spark of the vital flame was still alive: some invinciblefugitives preferred a life of poverty and freedom in theAsturian valleys; the hardy mountaineer repulsed theslaves of the caliph; and the sword of Pelagius has beentransformed into the sceptre of the Catholic kings.*Conquest On ^e intelligence of his rapid success, the applause of Musa degenerated into envy; andA. u. he began, not to complain but to fear, that Tarik would leave him nothing to subdue. At thehead of ten thousand Arabs and eight thousand Africans,he passed over in person from Mauritania to Spain: thefirst of his companions were the noblest of the Koreish;his eldest son was left in the command of Africa; thethree younger brethren were of an age and spirit to se­cond the boldest enterprises of their father. At his land­ing in Algezire, he was respectfully entertained by countJulian, who stifled his inward remorse, and testified, "Sucb was the argument of the traitor Oppae, and every chief to whom it wasaddressed did not answer with the spirit of Pelagius. — Omnis Hispania dudnmsub uno regimine Gothorum, omnis exercitus Hispaniae in uno congregatus Unru 1 -itarum mm valuit sustinere impel urn. Chron. Alphonsi Regis, apud Pagi, torn. :i.p. 177. * The revival of the Gothic kingdom in the Asturias is distinctly, though, con­cisely, noticed by d'Anville. (Etats de 1'Europe, p. 159.)