OCR Output 158 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Boot IV. marched into the region of Cirta, where Metellus was in winter-quarters. They began to negotiate: it was clear, that in the person of Jugurtha he held in his hands the real prize of the struggle for Rome. But what were his intentions —whether to sell his son-in-law dear to the Romans, or to take up the national war in concert with that son-in-law— neither the Romans nor Jugurtha nor perhaps even the king himself knew; and he was in no hurry to abandon his ambiguous position. Marius Thereupon Metellus left the province, which he had been commander- compelled by decree of the people to give up to his former in-duef. lieutenant Marius who was now consul; and the latter assumed the supreme command for the next campaign in 106. 648. He was indebted for it in some degree to a revolution.Relying on the services which he had rendered and at thesame time on oracles which had been communicated to him,he had resolved to come forward as a candidate for theconsulship. If the aristocracy had supported the constitu­tional, and in other respects quite justifiable, candidature ofthis able man, who was not at all inclined to take part withthe opposition, nothing would have come of the matter butthe enrolment of a new family in the consular Fasti. In­stead of this the man of non-noble birth, who aspired to thehighest public dignity, was reviled by the whole governingcaste as a daring innovator and revolutionist; just as theplebeian candidate had been formerly treated by the patri­cians, but now without any such formal ground as there wasthen in law. The brave officer was sneered at in sharplanguage by Metellus—Marius was told that he might waitwith his candidature till Metellus' son, a beardless boy,could be his colleague—and he was with the worst gracesuffered to leave almost at the last moment, that he mightappear in the capital as a candidate for the consulship of 107, 647. There he amply retaliated on his general the wrongwhich he had suffered, by criticising before the gapingmultitude the conduct of the war and the administration ofMetellus in Africa in a manner as unmilitary as it was dis­gracefully unfair; and he did not even disdain to serve up tothe darling populace—always whispering about secret conspi­racies equally unprecedented and indubitable on the part oftheir noble masters—the silly story, that Metellus was de­signedly protracting the war in order to remain as long as pos­sible commander-in-chief. To the idlers of the streets this