OCR Output CHAP. 56. , ROMAN HISTORY. 97 - aud though he made use of the public money, to de­fray i he expence, in the laborious part, he made thepeople the drudges. Though this was a considerableaddition to their military servitude, yet the considera­tion, that they were building a temple to the gods withtheir own hands, induced them to assist in carrying iton with more cheerfulness than usual. This servitudewas afterwards extended to works less honourable, butstill more laborious, as the construction of galleries inthe circus, and of a large drain under ground, for re­ceiving and carrying off the refuse of the city; worksso very considerable, that even the magnificence of thepresent ago can scarce pretend to equal them. Whilst the people were engaged in the execution ofthese designs, because he thought numbers, for whom hecould not find employment, were a burden to the city,that the frontiers of his dominions might be better in­habited, he sent colonies to Circeii* and Sigma, f whichproved a defence to the city, in succeeding ages, bothby sea and land. Whilst he was engaged in these matters, a terribleprodigy appeared. A serpent jumping out of a woodenpillar, spread such terror among-all who saw it, thatthey ran directly to the palace. The king was not somuch concerned for fear of danger, as he was solicitousabout what might fojlow. Therefore, though upon otheroccasions, the Etrurian diviners were thought sufficientiyet this phenomenon having impressed him with un­usual anxiety for his domestic concerns, he resolved tosend to the oracle at Delphi,}; the most famous at thattime in the world. And not daring to trust the oracle's answer to any• other, he dispatched two of his sons into Greece, [A. R.243.] through tracts of land, §at that time, very little,and seas still less known. Titus and Aruns set out, Lu­cia* Junius Brutus, Tarquin's nephew, by a sister Tar-quinia, a young man of a very different turn of mindfrom. what he choosed it should appear to be, was oftheir retinue. • * Monte Circello. f A city in Latium. J A city in Greece, r.o-,v Delfo, Sabona, and Castri.