OCR Output CHAP. S. ROMAN HISTORY. 19' the times, to his mother, or step-mother, and laid the/foundation of another new city tor himself, at the footof mount Alba, which, from its situation, being extendedon the declivity of a hill, was called Longa Alba* From the.time that Lavinium was founded, and thecolony planted at Alba Longa, there was an interval ofnear thirty years. Yet so rapid was the progress of theLatin power, especially after the defeat of the Etrurians,that not even upon .Kneas'sdeath, nor thereafter, duringthe regency of Lavinia, and the first exhibitions of ajuvenile administration, did Mezentius, or the £trurians,or any other neighbouring power, dare to make the leastattempt against it. A peace had been made on theseterms, that the river Albula, which they now call theTiber, should be the line of division, between the Etru-rianTJmd Latins. Sylvius, by some accident born in a wood, succeededhis father Ascaniusf. Him also his son, ./Eneas Sylviasucceeded, who transmitted the kingdom to his son La-tinus Sylvius. This king planted several colonies, andcalled them ancient Latins. After him the name of Syl­vius was assumed by all the succeeding kings of Alba.Alba was the son and successor of Latinus, Alys of Alba,Capys of Alys, Capetus of Capys, and of Capetus Ti-berinus, who was drowned in crossing the Albula, andthereby left it a name famous among posterity. Agrippa was the son and successor of Tiberinus,and Romulus Sylvias of Agrippa. He being killed bylightning, the kingdom devolved on Aventinus, whowas buried on that hill, which is now part of the cityof Rome, and called by his name. After him ProcareigneJ, the father of Numitor and Amulius. ToNumitor, his eldest son, he left. the ancient kingdom ofthe Sylvian family; but power was more prevalentthan the will of a parent, or the deference due to se­niority. Numitor was expelled, aml Amulius usurped the go-. vernment. One crime followed upon the heels of ano­ther. He cut off all his brother's representatives of themale line; and that there might be no hopes of poste- * Patazotta. •(• Some say bis brother.