OCR Output 220 EOMAN BANKS RAISED [B. V. galled : for they had so great a regard to the promises thathad been made of their courage, that they would needs per­severe in their fighting, and at length many of them retired,but not till they were wounded; and then they perceived thattrue Macedonians, if they were to be conquerors, must haveAlexander's good fortune also. 4. Now as the Romans began to raise their banks on thetwelfth day of the month Artemisius [Jyar,] so had theymuch ado to finish them by the twenty-ninth day of the samemonth, after they had labored hard for seventeen days con­tinually. For there were now four great banks raised, oneof which was at the tower Antonia: this was raised by thefifth legion over against the middle of that pool which wascalled Struthius. Another was cast up by the twelfth legion,at the distance of about twenty cubits from tho other. Butthe labors of the tenth legion, which lay a great way offthese, were on the north quarter, and at the pool calledAmygdalon ; as was that of the fifteenth legion about thirtycubits from it, and at the high-priest's monument. And now,when the engines were brought, John had from within under­mined the space that was over against the tower of Antonia,as far as the banks themselves, and had supported the groundover the mine with beams laid across one another, wherebythe Roman works stood upon an uncertain foundation. Thendid he order such materials to be brought in as were daubedover with pitch and bitumen, and set them on fire: and asthe cross-beams that supported the banks were burning, theditch yielded on the sudden, and the banks were shakendown, and fell into the diteh with a prodigious noise. Now,at the first there arose a very thick smoke and dust, as thefire was choked with the fall of the bank; but as the suffo­cated materials were now gradually consumed, a plain flamebrake out, on which sudden appearance of the flame a con­sternation fell upon the Romans, and the shrewdness of thecontrivance discouraged them: and, indeed, this accidentcoming upon them at the time when they thought they hadalready gained their point, cooled their hopes for the timoto come. They also thought it would be to no purpose to