OCR Output 304 LIVY. as if pent up by an enemy. Great numbers of menand cattle perished, and likewise seven of the elephantswhich had survived the battle at the Trebia. 59. Descending therefore from the Apennines, he di­rected his route back towards Placentia; and, havingmarched ten miles, pitched his camp. Next day heled out against the enemy twelve thousand foot andfive thousand horse. Nor did the consul Sempronius(for he had by this time returned from Rome) declinea battle ; and, during that day, the armies lay en­camped within three miles of each other. On the fol­lowing, they fought with the greatest bravery and withvariable success. At the first onset the superioritywas so great on the side of the Romans, that they notonly had the better in the fight, but drove the enemyfrom their ground, pursued them to their camp, andpresently attacked the camp itself. Hannibal, afterposting a few to defend the rampart and gates, collectedthe rest in close order in the middle of the camp, or­dering them to watch attentively the signal for sallyingforth. It was now near the ninth hour of the day,when the Roman, having fatigued his troops withouteffect, and seeing no prospect of success, gave the sig­nal for retreat. As soon as Hannibal perceived thatthey slackened their efforts, and were retiring from thecamp, be instantly sent out bis cavalry against themon the right and left; and he himself, at the head ofthe main body of infantry, rushed out in the middle.Seldom has there been a fight more desperate, andnever perhaps one more remarkable for the loss onboth sides than this would have been, had the daylightallowed it to continue; but night put a stop to thebattle, while its fury was at the highest. The num­bers slain therefore were not great, in proportion tothe violence of the conflict; and as both parties hadmet nearly equal success, so they separated with equalloss. On neither side fell more than six hundred foot,and half that number of horse. But the loss of theRomans was more considerable in regard of the qua­