OCR Output 298 LIVY. all the shrines, that the war which the people had or­dered against Philip might be attended with successand prosperity. The consul Sulpicius, inquiring of theheralds whether they would direct the declaration ofthe war against king Philip to be made to himself inperson, or whether it would be sufficient to publish itin the nearest garrison within the frontiers of his king­dom, they answered that either would do. The consulreceived authority from the seuate to send any personwhom he thought proper, not being a senator, as am­bassador, to denounce war against the king. Theythen proceeded to arrange the armies for the consulsand pretors. The consuls were ordered to levy twolegions, and to disband the veteran troops. Sulpicius,to whom the management of this new and highly im­portant war had been decreed, was allowed permissionto carry with him as many volunteers as he could pro­cure out of the army which Publius Scipio had broughthome from Africa; but he was not empowered to com­pel any veteran soldier to attend him. They orderedthat the consul should give to the pretors, Lucius Fu-rius Purpureo and Quintus Minucius Rufus, five thou­sand of the allies of the Latine confederacy; with whichforces they should hold, one, the province of Gaul, theother, Bruttium. Quintus Fulvius Gillo was ordered,in like manner, to select out of the army which Pub­lius tEHus, late consul, had commanded, such as hadbeen the shortest time in the service, until he alsomade up five thousand of the allies and Latine confe­derates, for guarding his province of Sicily. To Mar­cus Valerius Falto, who, during the former year, hadheld the province of Campania, as pretor, the commandwas continued for a year; in order that he might goover in quality of propretor to Sardinia, and chooseout of the army there five thousand of the allies of theLatine confederacy, who also had been the shortesttime in the service. The consuls were at the sametime ordered to levy two legions for the city, whichmight be sent wherever occasion should require; asthere were many states in Italy infected with an at-