OCR Output Chap. V. WARS OF THE 3EWSi 203 younger Aristobulus with her, as a private person, by reason ofthe warmth of his temper. 2. And now the Pharisees joined themselves to her, to assisther in the government. These are a certain sect of the Jewsthat appear more religious than others, and seem to interpret thelaws more accurately. Now, Alexandra hearkened to them toan extraordinary degree, as being herself a woman of great pietytowards God. But these Pharisees artfully insinuated them­selves into her favour by little and little, and became themselvesthe real administrators of the public affairs: they banished andreduced whom they pleased ; they bound and loosed [men] attheir pleasure * f, and, to say all at once, they had the enjoy­ment of the ro}-al authority, whilst the expences and the difficul­ties of it belonged to Alexandra. She was a sagacious woman inthe management of great affairs, and intent always upon gather­ing soldiers together ; so that she increased the army the onehalf, and procured a great body of foreign troops, till her ownnation became not only very powerful at home, but terrible alsoto foreign potentates, while she governed other people, and thePharisees governed her. 3. Accordingly they themselves slew Diogenes, a person offigure, and one that had been a friend to Alexander ; and accusedhim as having assisted the king with his advice, for crucifyingthe eight hundred men [before-mentioned]. They also pre­vailed with Alexandra to put to death the rest of those who hadirritated him against them. Now, she was so superstitious as tocomply with their desires, and accordingly they slew whomthey pleased themselves ; but the principal of those that were indanger fled to Aristobulus, who persuaded his mother to sparethe men on account of their dignity, but to expel them out ofthe city, unless she took them to be innocent ; so they weresuffered to go unpunished, and were dispersed all over the coun­try. But, when Alexandra sent out her army to Damascus,under pretence that Ptolemy was always oppressing that city,she got possession of it ; nor did it make any considerable re­sistance. She also prevailed with Tigranes, king of Armenia,who lay with his troops about Ptolemais, and besieged J Cleopa­tra, * Matt. xvi. 19. xviii. 18. ,f Here we have the oldest and most authentic Jewish exposition of bindingand loosing, for punishing or absolving men, not for declaring actions lawful orunlawful, as some more modern Jews and Christians vainly pretend. $ Strabo, B. XVI. p. 740. relates, that this Selene Cleopatra was besieged byTigranes, not in Ptolemais, as here, but after she had left Syria in Seleucia, acitadel in Mesopotamia; and adds, that when he had kept her a while in prison,he put her to death. Dean Aldrich supposes here that Strabo contradicts Jose-phus, which does not appear to me ; for although josephus says both here and inthe Antiquities, B. XIII. ch.xvi. sect. 4. that Tigranes besieged her now in Ptole.