OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 33 for her husband softened her fiercer passions, andgave a tincture of delicacy to that haughty spiritwhich nothing could subdue. XXXIV. Germanicus was now advanced nearer tothe imperial dignity; but his zeal for Tiberius rose inproportion. He required from the Sequanians and theBelgic states the oath of fidelity to the emperor; andbeing informed of the commotions that distracted thearmy, he set forward, without delay, to appease thetumult. The legions met him on the outside of theintrenchments, with downcast eyes, and all the exter­nal symptoms of repentance. He was, however, nosooner within the lines, than the camp resounded withgroans and bitter lamentations. Some laid hold ofthe prince's hand, as if going to kiss it; but insertinghis fingers in their mouths, made him feel their bone­less gums, complaining that they had lost their teethin the service: others showed their bodies bent withage, and drooping under a load of infirmities. A tu­multuous crowd gathered round the tribunal: Ger­manicus ordered them to form in their respectivecompanies, that the men might more distinctly hearhis answer; and, to distinguish the cohorts, he di­rected the standards to bo ranged in proper order.The soldiers obeyed, but with reluctance. Germani­cus opened with the panegyric of Augustus; he pro­ceeded to the victories and triumphs obtained by Ti­berius, insisting chiefly on his exploits in Germany,at the head of those very legions, ^he succession,he observed, was quietly settled: Italy consented,both the Gauls remained in their duty, and peaceprevailed in every part of the empire. XXXV. Thus far Germanicus was. heard with si­lence, or at worst with a low and hollow murmur. Hemade a transition to the present disturbances:" Where"is now the sense of military duty? Where that an-"cient discipline, the boast and honour of the Roman"armies? Whither have you driven the tribunes?"Where are the centurions?" At these words, thewhole multitude, as if with one instinct, threw off theirclothes, exposing their bodies seamed with woundsfrom the enemy, and with lashes from the centurion.