OCR Output 200 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. CHAP. LXV. The Volsci defeated, and their camp taken. W HEN the light appeared, the Roman army, quitevigorous and refreshed with sleep, marched out 10 bat­tle; and at the first charge obliged the Volsci to giveway, being already exhausted with standing under theirarms, and watching all night. They were not, how­ever, entirely routed, they only fell back to some steepplaces behind the centre, whither, without breaking theirranks, they retreated in safety. , The consul, when the army had advanced fo the risingground, gave orders to halt. These orders were obeyedwith the greatest relucmncy, the soldiers crying out,and urgently requesting, to be permitted to pursue theenemy already giving ground. The cavalry were par­ticularly urgent, crowding round the general, expressedthe greatest ardour, declaring loudly, that they wouldgo before the ensigns to the charge. While the consulwas balancing between the ardour of his troops, andthe disadvantage of the ground, they all, by a general.shout, expressed their resolution of going on, and im­mediately began to march. To help them over thesteep places, they fixed their javelins in the ground, andthese surmounted, run towards the top of the hill. Whilst they were advancing, the enemy having spentall their darts atthe first attack, tumbled down the stones.upon them, which lay scattered among their feet, ofwhich they discharged such numbers, that their rankswere broke, and they forced to fall back from the emi­nence they had gained. The left wing of the Romanswas so overpowered, that it was on the point of givingway, when the consul reproaching them with their rash­ness, and want of resolution, made shatne get the bet­ter of their (ear. Upon this, then, they renewed theirexertions with the most determined ardour; and as theycould gain a little ground, still continued to advance,and setting up the other shout, encouraged the wholearmy, by repeating their efforts, they got over the diffi­culty of the place. They were now within a little of