OCR Output 272 CONFLAGRATIONS. [B. \L the echo, as well as the mountains round about [the city,]and augmented the force of the entire noise. Yet was themisery itself more terrible than this disorder; for one wouldhave thought that the hill itself, on which the temple stood,was seething hot, as full of fire on every part of it; that theblood was larger in quantity than the fire, and those thatwere slain more in number than those that slew them; forthe ground did nowhere appear visible, for the dead bodiesthat lay on it; but the soldiers went over heaps of thosebodies, as they ran upon such as fled from them. And nowit was that the multitude of the robbers were thrust out [ofthe inner court of the temple] by the Romans, and had muchado to get into the outward court, and from thence into thecity, while the remainder of the populace fled into the cloisterof that outer court. As for the priests, some of them pluckedup from the holy house the spikesl that were upon it, withtheir bases, which were made of lead, and shot them at theRomans instead of darts. But then, as they gained nothingby so doing, and as the fire burst out upon them, they re­tired to the wall, that was eight cubits broad, and there theytarried; yet did two of these of eminence among them, whomight have saved themselves by going over to the Romans,or have borne up with courage, and taken their fortune withthe others, throw themselves into the fire, and were burnt,together with the holy house: their names were Meirug, theson of Belgas, and Joseph, the son of Daleus. 2. And now the Romans, judging that it was in vain tospare what was round about the holy house, burnt all thoseplaces, as also the remains of the cloisters and the gates, twoexcepted; the one on the cast side and the other on thesouth; both which, however, they burnt afterward. Theyalso burnt down the treasury-chambers, in which was auimmense quantity of money, and an immense number ofgarments, and other precious goods there reposited; and, to 1 Reland, I think, here judges well, when he interprets these spikes (ofthose that stood on the top of the holy house) with sharp points: they werefixed into lead to prevent the birds from sitting there, and defiling the holyhouse; for such spikes there were now upon it, as Josephus himself hathalready assured us, B. v. eh. v. sect. 6.