OCR Output 398 KARBO. NARBASORUM FORUM. interview with Hannibal, before the great battle ofthe 19th of October, B.C. 202 (Liv. xxx. 29, thereading Mo/>y.~p<v, l'olyb. xv. 5, is falsi). Narag-gera was 30 or 32 M. P. to the W. of Sicca (12 M.P. Peul. Tab.), and 20 M. P to the E of Thagiira.(Anton. Itin.) Shaw (TraV. p. 130) found atC'ags'r Jebir, some fragments of an aqueduct withother footsteps of an ancient city, which, with thefountains close adjoining, and the absence of goodwater in the neighbourhood, induced him to believethat this was the spot near which Scipio is said tohave encamped for the benefit of the water. These ruins at Kast'r Jebir are marked in theCnrte de la province de Comtaniine, Paris, 1837.Comp. Barth, Karte Von Kurd AfrUcanitchenGetladeland. [E. B. J.] NARBASO'RL'M FORUM. [Gaixafxia, Vol.1,p. 934, a.] NARBO MARTIUS (b Kifigwv: Elh. NopS.-Wfinos, Neu»6WiTijy, NapSahs, Narbonensis: Xar-Jonne), a town of the Provincia or Gallia Nar­bonensis. Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 9) enumerates itamong the inland towns of the Vulcae Tectosages,under the name of Narbon Colonia. He places itfivo minutes south of the latitude of Massalia (Mar­seille), and in 43° N. lat. It is, however, someminutes north of 43° N. lat., and more than fiveminutes south of Massalia. Hipparchus placedNarbo and Massalia nearly in the same latitude.(Strab. ii. p. 106.) Narbo was on the Atax(Awle), and xii. M.P. from the sea. (Plin. iii. 4.)Pliny seems to place Narbo in the territory of theVolcae Tectosages, but his text is obscure. .Strabo(iv. p. 186) distinctly places Narbo in the territory ofthe Volcae Arecomici, but he adds that Nemaususwas their chief city. It seems, indeed, more pro­bable that the Volcae Arecomici possessed the coastabout Narbo, for the chief city of the Tectosageswas Tolosa (Toulovee), in the basin of the Garonne.Mela (ii. 5) calls Narbo a colonia of the Atacini[Atax] and the Decumani. Atisonius (l>eClaris Urbibut, Narbo) does not say, as some havesupposed, that Narbo was in the territory of theTcctosages, but that the Tecto.-agcs formed thewestern part of Narbonensis, which is true. Theconclusion from Caesar (B. G. vii. G) is that Narbowas not in the country of the Arecomici; but Caesardid not trouble himself about such matters. The position of Narbo at Sarbonne is easily de­termined by the name, by the river Atax, and bythe measures along the road from Italy into SpainThe road from Arelate (Aries) through Nemausus(Simes), Cessero (St. Tiberi), and B.ieterrac (Be-ziers) to Narbo, is in the Antonine Itin. There isalso a route both in the Antonine Itin. and in theTable from Bnrdigala (Bordeaux), through Tolosa(Tonlotue)and Careasso (Corcrmonne) to Narbo. The name Narbon (ij Naoffwr) was also onename of the river Atax, for Polybius calls the riverNarbon. [Atax.] Tho form Narbona occurs ininscriptions; and there is authority for this formalso in the MSS. of Caesar. (B. G. iii. 20, ed. Schn.,and viii. 46.) According to Stephanus (*. r.) Mar-cianus calls it Narbonesta; but this is clearly anadjective form. Hecatacus, who is the authorityfor the Ethnic name Nap&uoi, must have supposeda name Narba or Narbe. The origin of the nameMartins is nut certain. The Roman colony of Naibowas settled, n. c. 118, in the consulship of Q. Mar-cius Rex and M. Porcius Cato; but the founder ofthe colony was L. Lkinius Crasius. (Cic. Brut. e. 43.) It has been conjectured that the rum*Martius was given to the place because of the war­like natives of the country against whom tbesettlers had to protect themselves. Bat this i» notprobable. Others, again, have conjectured that itsname is derived from the Login Martin (Veil. Pater.ii. 8, ed. Bnrmann): and the orthography Martia b>defended by an inscription, Narbo Mart. (Grater,cexxix.), and a coin of Golttiim. To this it if eb-jecled.bya writer quoted by I'kert (Galtim. p. 410),that tl« I.egio Martia was first formed by Augoirtta.and that Cicero mentions the title Martins. (AdFam. x. 33.) Forbiger copies Ukert. It appear*that neither of them looked at Cicero's Mter, hiwhich he speaks, not of Narbo Martiua or Mamas,but of tbe Legio Martia, which existed bef .re ttwtime of Augustus. Cicero, however, does speak ofNnrlsj Marcius, as it stands in Orelli's text. (ProFont. c. 1.) The Latin MSS. write the word U<hMarcius and Martius; and the same variation occursin many other words nf the same termination. Tbemost probable conclusion is, that the name Martialor Marcius is the name of the consul Marcius(n-C.118), who was fighting in this year against a Li-gnrian people, named Stoeni. The name may har»been written Narbo Marcius in Cicero's time, andafterwards corrupted. Narbo was an old town, placed in a good posftiooon the read into Spain and into the basin of tbeGaronne; a commercial place, we may certainlyassume, from the earliest time of ita existence.There was a tradition that tin country at Xar-bnnne was once occupied by Bebryces. (l>i»n Cass.Frag. Volf*. vi. ed. Reim., and the reference to Zo-naras.) The earliest writer who mentions Narbo isHccataeus, quoted by Stephanus; and. accordingly,wc conclude that Narbo was well known to tbeGreeks in the fifth century before tbe Christianaera. The first Roman settlement in South Galliawas Aquae Sextiae (Aix), on the east aide of tbtRhone- The second was Narbo Marcioa, by whichthe Romans secured the road into Spain. Cicerocalls Narbo " a colony of Roman citizens, a watchtower of the Roman people, and a bulwark opf»»*dand placed in front of tbe nations in th<*e jtii-ta.-During Caesar's ware in Callia this Roman cokeywas an important position. When P. Craaraa ia-vaded Aquitania (n. c. 56) he got help from Toioaa,Carfaso, and Narbo, at all which places there wasa mnster-roll of the fighting men. (B. G. Hi. SO.)In the great rising of tbe Galli (b. c. 52), Narbowas threatened by Locteritu, but Caesar eaune teits relief. (B. G. vii. 7.) A second colony *■settled at Narbo. or the old one rather strength­ened by a Mippleuioiilmn under the dictator Caesar(Suebin. Tiber, c. 4) by Tiberius Claudius Sirrv*,the father of the emperor Tiberius. Snne *4 thetenth legion, Caesar's favourite legion, wrre willedhere, as we may infer from the luime I>ecuinan,>rumColonia. (Plin. iii. 4.) The name Julia Patera,which appears on inscriptions and in Martial, ifderived from the dictator Caesar. Tbe estatJitb-ment of Narbo was the cause of tbe dr^hne ofMassilia, Strabo, who wrote in the time of Ae-gustus and Tiberius, says (iv. p. 186): " that NarSais the port of the Volcae Arecomici, bat it nuffitmore properly be called the port of the rest i4*Celtice; so much does it surpass oilier town* intrade." (The latter part of Strain's text is eocniMhere.) The tin of the north-west part of the Spam*hpeninsula and of Britain passed by way of Nuba, a*