OCR Output AN. 1800.] 3? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ing fallen asleep, he dreamed that he saw aladder which reached from the earth untoheaven, and persons descending down theladder that seemed more excellent thanhuman; and at last God himself stood aboveit, and calling him by his name, said, " OJacob, it is not fit for thee, who art the son ofa good father, and grandson to one who hadobtained a great reputation for his eminentvirtue, to be dejected at thy present circum­stances, but to hope for better times. Forthou shalt have great abundance of all goodthings, by my assistance. For I brought Abra­ham hither, out of Mesopotamia, when hewas driven away by his kinsmen; and I madethy father a happy man. Nor will I bestowan inferior degree of happiness on thyself.Be of good courage, therefore; and undermy conduct, proceed on thy journey; for the marriage thou goest so zealously about shallbe consummated. And thou shalt have chil­dren of good characters; whose multitude shallbe innumerable. And they shall leave whatthey have to a still more numerous posterity;to whom, and to whose posterity, I give thedominion of all the land, and their posterityshall fill the earth, so far as the sun beholdsthem. But do not thou fear any danger, norbe afraid of the many labours thou mustundergo, for by my providence I will directthee what thou art to do in the time present,and still more in the time to come." Such were the predictions which God madeto Jacob. Whereupon he became very joy­ful at what he had seen and heard; and hepoured oil upon the stones,* because on themthe prediction of such great benefits wasmade. He also vowed a vow that he would * One of the idols in the Pagoda of Jaggernaut is de­scribed, by Captain Hamilton, as a huge black stone, of apy ramidical form, and the Saj/imona Codom of the Siameseis of the same complexion. The Ayeen Akbery mentions anoctagonal pillar of black stone fifty cubits high. Tavernierobserved an idol of black stone in the Pagoda of Benares,and that the statue of Chreeshna, in his celebrated tem­ple of Mathura, is of black marble. It is very remarkable,that one of the principal ceremonies incumbent upon thepriests of these stone deities, according to Tavernier, is toanoint them daily with odoriferous oils: a circumstancewhich immediately brings to our remembrance the similarpractice of Jacob, who, after the famous vision of the ce­lestial ladder, took the stone which he had put for his pillow,and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.It is added, that he called the name of that place, Bethel;that is, the house of God. This passage evinces of howgreat antiquity is the custom of considering stones in asacred light, as well as the anointing them with consecratedoil. From this conduct of Jacob, and this Hebrew appel­lative, the learned Bochart, with great ingenuity andreason, insists that the name and veneration of the sacredstones, called Baetyti, so celebrated in all pagan antiquity,were derived. These Baetyti were stones of a roundform; they were supposed to be animated by means ofmagical incantations, with a portion of the Deity; theywere consulted on occasions of great and pressing emer­gency, as a kind of divine oracles, and were suspended,either round the neck, or some other part of the body.Thus the setting up of a stone by this holy person, ingrateful memory of the celestial vision, probably becamethe occasion of the idolatry in succeeding ages, to theseshapeless masses of unhewn stone, of which so manyastonishing remains are scattered up and down the Asiaticand the European world. Maurice's Indian Antiquities,vol. ii. p. 355. Jacob calls the pillar which he had set up, God's house.It appears strange to as to hear a stone pillar called God'shouse, being accustomed to give names of this kind to suchbuildings only as are capable of containing their worship­pers within them. But this is not the case in every part of the world, as we learn from Major Symes's narrative ofhis Embassy to the kingdom of Ava. The temples of thatpeople, vast as many of them are, are built without cavityof any sort, and he only mentions some of the most ancientof those at Pagahm as constructed otherwise. The fol­lowing extract will sufficiently illustrate this matter: "The object in Pegu that moat attracts, and mostmerits notice, is the noble edifice of Slwemadoo, or thegolden supreme. This is a pyramidical building, composedof brick and mortar, without excavation or aperture ofany sort: octagonal at the base, and spiral at the top.Each side of the base measures one hundred and sixty-two feet. The extreme height of the edifice, from thelevel of the country, is three hundred and sixty-one feet,and above the interior terrace three hundred and thirty-one feet. Along the whole extent of the northern face ofthe upper terrace there is a wooden shed for the con­venience of devotees, who come from a distant part of thecountry. There are several low benches near the foot ofthe temple, on which the person, who comes to pray,places his offering, commonly consisting of boiled rice, aplate of sweetmeats, or cocoa-nuts fried in oil; when it isgiven, the devotee cares not what becomes of it; thecrows and wild dogs often devour it in the presence of thedonor, who never attempts to disturb the animals. I sawseveral plates of victuals disposed of in this manner, andunderstood it was the case with all that was brought. "The temple of Shoedagan, about two miles and a halfnorth of Rangoon, is a very grand building, although not sohigh, by twenty-five or thirty feet, as that of Shoemadoo,at Pegu. The terrace on which it stands is raised on arocky eminence, considerably higher than the circumjacentcountry, and is ascended by above a hundred stone steps,The name of this temple, which signifies Golden Dagon,naturally recalls to mind the passage in the scriptures,where the house of Dagon is mentioned, and the image ofidolatry bows down before the Holy Ark." "Many of the most ancient temples at Pagahm are notsolid at the bottom: a well arched dome supports a pon­derous superstructure; and, within, an image of Gaudona■its enshrined." B.