OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL caufes°bable Although the progress of civilization has undoubtedly contributedto asswage the fiercer passions of human nature, it seems to havebeen less favourable to the virtue of chastity, whose most dangerousenemy is the softness of the mind. The refinements of life cor­rupt while they polish the intercourse of the sexes. The gross ap­petite of love becomes most dangerous when it is elevated, orrather, indeed, disguised by sentimental passion. The elegance ofdress, of motion, and of manners, give a lustre to beauty, and in­flame the senses through the imagination. Luxurious entertain­ments, midnight dances, and licentious spectacles, present at oncetemptation and opportunity to female frailty From such dangers,the unpolissied wives of the barbarians were secured, by poverty,solitude, and the painful cares of a domestic life. The German huts,open, on every side, to the eye of indiscretion or jealousy, were abetter safe-guard of conjugal fidelity, than the walls, the bolts, andthe eunuchs of a Persian haram. To this reason, another may beadded of a more honourable nature. The Germans treated theirwomen with esteem and confidence, consulted them on every occa­sion of importance, and fondly believed, that in their breasts re­sided a sanctity and wisdom, more than human. Some of theseinterpreters of fate, such as Velleda, in the Batavian war, governedin the name of the deity, the fiercest nations of Germany s8. Therest of the sex, without being adored as goddesses, were respected asthe free and equal companions of soldiers; associated even by themarriage ceremony to a life of toil, of danger, and of glory 59. Intheir great invasions, the camps of the barbarians were filled witha multitude of women, who remained firm and undaunted amidstthe sound of arms, the various forms of destruction, and the ho­nourable wounds of their sons and husbands 6o. Fainting armies ofGermans have more than once been driven back upon the enemy,by the generous despair of the women, who dreaded death muchless than servitude. If the day was irrecoverably lost, they well knew