OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 51 of Praxiteles or Lysippus were torn from their lofty chap.pedestals, and hurled into the ditch on the heads of XXXI •the besiegers *. To each of his lieutenants, Beli-sarius assigned the defence of a gate, with the wiseand peremptory instruction, that, whatever might bethe alarm, they should steadily adhere to their re­spective posts, and trust their general for the safetyof Rome. The formidable host of the Goths was in­sufficient to embrace the ample measure of the city:of the fourteen gates, seven only were invested, fromthe Praenestine to the Flaminian way; and Vitigesdivided his troops into six camps, each of which wasfortified with a ditch and rampart. On the Tuscanside of the river, a seventh encampment was formedin the field or circus of the Vatican, for the importantpurpose of commanding the Milvian bridge and thecourse of the Tyber; but they approached with de­votion the adjacent church of St. Peter; and thethreshold of the holy apostles was respected duringthe siege by a Christian enemy. In the ages of vic­tory, as often as the senate decreed some distant con­quest, the consul denounced hostilities, by unbar­ring, in solemn pomp, the gates of the temple ofJanus "\. Domestic war now rendered the admoni­tion superfluous, and the ceremony was superseded bythe establishment of a new religion. But the brazentemple of Janus was left standing in the forum; of asize sufficient only to contain the statue of the god,five cubits in height, of a human form, but with twofaces, directed to the east and west. The double • Praxiteles excelled in Fauns, and that of Athens was his own masterpiece.Rome now contains above thirty of the same character. When the ditch of St.Angelo was cleansed under Urban VIII. the workmen found the sleeping Faunof die Barberini palace; but a leg, a thigh, and the right arm, had been brokenfrom that beautiful statue (Winckelman, Hist . de l'Art, tom. ii. p. 52, 53, tom.iii. p. 265). •f Procopius has given the best description of the temple of Janus, a nationaldeity of Latium (Heyne, Excurs. v. ad 1. vii. /Encid.). It was once a gate in theprimitive city of Romulus and Numa (Nardini, p. 13. 25C. 329). Virgil hasdescribed the ancient rite, like a poet and an antiquarian.