OCR Output 178 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. 110. reached the Danube, and Marcus Minuciua (644), who car­ried his arms along the Morava* and so thoroughly defeatedthe Scordisci, that they thenceforth sank into insignificance,and in their room another tribe, the Dardani (in Servia),began to play the leading part in the region between thenorthern frontier of Macedonia and the Danube.The Cimbri. But these victories had an effect which the victors did notanticipate. For a considerable period an "unsettled people"had been wandering along the northern verge of the countryoccupied by the Celts on both sides of the Danube. Theycalled themselves the Cimbri, that is, the Chempho, thechampions or, as their enemies translated it, the robbers; adesignation, however, which to all appearance had becomethe name of the people even before their migration. Theycame from the north, and the first Celtic people with whomthey came in contact were, so far as is known, the Boii, pro-bly in Bohemia. More exact details as to the cause and thedirection of their migration have not been recorded by con­temporaries, f and cannot be supplied by conjecture, since thestate of things in those times to the north of Bohemia andthe Main and to the east of the Lower R.hine lies whollybeyond our knowledge. But the hypothesis that theCimbri as well as the similar horde of the Teutoneswhich afterwards joined them belonged in the main not tothe Celtic nation, to which the Romans at first assignedthem, but to the Germanic, is supported by the most defi­nite facts : viz., by the existence of two small tribes of thesame name—remnants left behind to all appearance intheir primitive seats—the Cimbri in the modern Denmark,the Teutones in the north-east of Germany in the neighbour­hood of the Baltic, where Pytheas, a contemporary of Alex­ander the Great, makes mention of them thus early inconnection with the amber trade; by the insertion of theCimbri and Teutones in the list of the Germanic peoplesamong the Ingarvones alongside of the Chauci; by the judg­ment of Caesar, who first made the Romans acquainted * As, according to Velleius and Eutropius, the tribe conquered by Minuciuswas the Scordisci, it can only be through an error on the part of Florus thathe mentions the Hebrus (the Maritza) instead of the Margus (Morava). f The account that large tracts on the coasts of the North Sea had beentorn away by inundations, and that this had occasioned the migration of theCimbri in a body (Strabo, rii. 293) does not indeed appear to us fabulous, as itseemed to the Greek inquirers; but whether it was based on tradition or onconjecture, cannot be decided.