OCR Output CHAP. LII. 477 justly denominated by the Greeks, the liquid 01 the maritimefire. For the annoyance of the enemy, it was employedwith equal effect, by sea and land, in battles or in sieges.It was either poured from the ramparts in large boilers,or launched in red-hot balls of stone and iron, or dartedin arrows and javelins, twisted round with flax and tow,which had deeply imbibed the inflammable oil: some­times it was deposited in fire-ships, the victims and in­struments of a more ample revenge, and was most com­monly blown through long tubes of copper, which wereplanted on the prow of a galley, and fancifully shapedinto the mouths of savage monsters, that seemed to vomita stream of liquid and consuming fire. This importantart was preserved at Constantinople, as the palladium ofthe state; the galleys and artillery might occasionallybe lent to the allies of Rome; but the composition of theGreek fire was concealed with the most jealous scruple,and the terror of the enemies was increased and prolongedby their ignorance and surprise. In the treatise of theadministration of the empire, the royal author* suggeststhe answers and excuses that might best elude the indis­creet curiosity and importunate demands of the barbarians.They should be told that the mystery of the Greek firehad been revealed by an angel to the first and greatestof the Constantines, with a sacred, injunction, that thisgift of heaven, this peculiar blessing of the Romans,should never be communicated to any foreign nation:that the prince and subject were alike bound to religioussilence, under the temporal and spiritual penalties oftreason and sacrilege; and that the impious attemptwould provoke the sudden and supernatural vengeanceof the God of the Christians. By these precautions, thesecret was confined, above four hundred years, to theRomans of the east; and, at the end of the eleventh cen­tury, the Pisans, to whom every sea and every art werefamiliar, suffered the effects, without understanding the * Constantin. Porphyrogenit. de Administrat. Imperil, c. 13. p. 6!, 65.