OCR Output 48 [A. U. C. 767. THE ANNALS LII. An account of these events arriving at Rome,Tiberius was variously affected. He received a degree |of pleasure, but it was a pleasure mingled with anxie­ty. That the troubles in the camp were at an end,he heard with satisfaction: but he saw, with a jealousspirit, that by largesses, and dismissions from the ser­vice, Germanicus had gained the affections of the le­gions. The glory of his arms was another circum­stance that touched him nearly. He though fit, not­withstanding, to lay the whole account before the se­nate. He expatiated at large in praise of Germani­cus, but in terms of studied ostentation, too elaborateto be thought sincere. Of Drusus, and the issue ofthe troubles in Illyricum, he spoke with more reserve;concise, yet not without energy. The concessionsmade by Germanicus to the legions on the Rhine,were ratifir d in every article, and at the same timeextended to the army in Pannonia. L1II. In the course of the year died Julia, thedaughter of Augustus. On account of her lasciviouspleasures, she had been formerly banished by herfather to the Isle of Pandataria, and afterward toRhegium, a city on the streights of Sicily. Duringthe life of her sons Caius and Lucius, she became thewife of Tiberius, and by the haughtiness of her car­riage made him feel that she thought him beneath herrank. The arrogance of her behaviour was the secretand most powerful motive for the retreat, which thatprince made to the Isle of Rhodes. At his accessionto the empire, when he was master of the Romanworld, he saw her in a state of destitution, banished,covered with infamy, and, after the murder of AgrippaPosthumus, without a ray of hope to comfort her.Yet this could not appease the malice of Tiberius.He ordered her to be starved to death; concludingthat, after a tedious exile at a place remote, a linger­ing death in want and misery, would pass unnoticed. From the same root of bitterness sprung the cruel­ly with which he persecuted Semprpnius Gracchus;a man descended from a noble family, possessed oftalents, and adorned with eloquence, but eloquence vi­ciously applied. By his wit and rare accomplishments