OCR Output 14 LIVY. .lEmilius, revived an old dispute ; for the patricians in足sisted that Caius Mamilius Vitulus, the only plebeiancandidate, ought not to be allowed to stand, becausenone but a patrician had ever held that office of thepriesthood. The tribunes being appealed to, referredthe business to the senate. The senate voted that thepeople might act therein as they should think proper.Thus Caius Mamilius Vitulus was elected chief curio,being the first plebeian admitted into that office. Pub-lius Licinius, chief pontiff, compelled Caius ValeriusFlaccus, against his will, to be inaugurated flamen ofJupiter. Caius Lsetorius was created decemvir for theperformance of religious rites, in the room of QuintusMucius Scaevola, deceased. I should willingly passover in silence the reason of the flamen being forcedinto the office, laboring as he then did under a badcharacter, had he not afterwards acquired a very goodone. Caius Flaccus had spent his youth in idlenessand debauchery, and his vicious courses had drawn onhim the displeasure of his own brother Lucius Flaccus,and of his other relations; and Publius Licinius wasin hope of reclaiming him. Indeed, when his thoughtsbecame engaged in the care of the sacrifices and re足ligious performances, he quickly made such a completealteration in his conduct, from what it had hithertobeen, that, among all the young men of the time, noone was held in higher esteem, or more intirely ap足proved by the principal patricians, by his own family,and by all. This universal good character inspiringbim with a proper sense of his own worth, he asserteda privilege which had for many years been laid aside,on account of the unworthiness of former flamens, thatof having a seat in the senate. On his coming into thesenate-house, the pretor, Lucius Licinius, led bim out;on which he appealed to the tribunes of the commons,alleging that he only claimed an ancient privilege ofhis priesthood, which was conferred on the office offlamen, together with the purple-bordered robe and thecurule chair. The pretor argued that such a right de足pended not on the copies of annals, rendered obsolete