OCR Output 270 LIVY. where the climate, and likewise the temper of the in­habitants, were of a still milder cast. 38. In this manner, as nearly as can be ascertained,they accomplished their passage into Italy, in the fifthmonth, according to some authors, after leaving NewCarthage, having spent fifteen days in crossing theAlps. As to what number of forces Hannibal had,when he arrived in Italy, writers by no means agree.Those who state them at the highest make them amountto one hundred thousand foot and twenty thousandhorse; while those who state them at the lowest saytwenty thousand foot and six of horse. The authorityof Lucius Cincius Alimentus, who writes that he wastaken prisoner by Hannibal, would have the greatestweight with me, did he not confound the number hyadding the Gauls and Ligurians. He says that, in­cluding these, (who, it is more probable, however,flocked to him afterwards, and so some writers assert,)there were brought into Italy eighty thousand foot andten thousand horse; and that he heard from Hannibalhimself, that from the time of his passing the Rhonehe had lost thirty-six thousand men, together with avast number of horses and other beasts of burden, be­fore he left the country of the Taurinians, the nextnation to the Gauls as he went down into, Italy. Thathe came through this state is agreed on by all. I amtherefore the more surprised at its remaining doubtfulby what road he crossed the Alps, and that the opi­nion should commonly prevail that he passed over thePennine hill, and that from thence that summit of thesemountains got its name. Coelius says that he passedover the hill of Cremo. Either of these passes wouldhave led him, not into the territory of the Taurinians,but through that of the mountaineers, called Salassians,to the Libuan Gauls. Nor is it probable that those\ roads into Hither Gaul should, at that time, have beenopen : those, especially, which lead to the Penninehill would have been blocked up by nations half Ger­man. And besides, if the assertions of the inhabitants