OCR Output A.'D. 14.] 25 OF TACITUS. protect him. The quarrel would have laid a sceneof blood, if the soldiers of the ninth legion had not, byentreaty, or by menacing the obstinate, appeased thefury of both parties. XXIV. When the account of these transactionsreached Tiberius, that abstruse and gloomy temper,which loved to brood in secret over all untowardevents, was so deeply aifected, that he resolved, with­out delay, to despatch his son Drusus, with others ofhigh rank, and two prsetorian cohorts, to quell the in­surrection. In their instructions no decisive orderswere given; they were left to act as emergenciesmight require. To the cohorts was added a selectdetachment, with a party of the pratorian horse, andthe flower of the Germans, at that time the body­guard of the emperor. In the train which accompa­nied Drusus, Elius Sejanus was appointed, by hiscounsels to guide the inexperience of the prince. Se­janus, at that time in a joint commission with hisfather Strabo, had the command of the pranorianbands, and stood high in favour with Tiberius: thearmy would of course consider him as the fountainof rewards and punishments. As soon as they ap­proached the camp, the discontented legions, by wayof doing honour to Drusus, advanced to meet him;not, indeed, with colours displayed, as is usual onsuch occasions; but with a deep and solemn silence,their dress neglected, and their whole appearance un­couth and sordid. In their looks was seen an air ofdejection, and at fhe same time a sullen gloom, thatplainly showed a spirit of mutiny still working intheir heart. XXV. Drusus was no sooner within the intrench-ments, than the malcontents secured the gates. Sen­tinels were posted at different stations, while the restin a body gathered, round the tribunal. Drusus stoodin act to speak, with his hand commanding silence.The soldiers felt a variety of contending passions:they looked around, and viewing their numbers, grew,fierce at the sight: they rent the air with shouts andwere covered with confusion. An indistinct and hol­low murmur was heard; a general uproar followed; Vol. i.—C