OCR Output 76 8 I E G B 0 F G A M A L A . [B. IV. away; for they were so unacquainted with the ways, and thedust was so thick, that they wandered about without knowingone another, and fell down dead among the crowd. 5. Those, therefore, that were able to find the ways outof the city, retired. But now Vespasian always stayed amongthose that were hard set; for he was deeply affected withseeing the ruins of the city falling upon his army, and forgotto take care of his own preservation. He went up graduallytowards the highest parts of the city be/ore he was aware, andwas left in the midst of dangers, having only a very few withhim ; for even his son Titus was not with him at that time,having been then sent into Syria to Mucianus. However, hethought it not safe to fly, nor did he esteem it a fit thing for himto do; but calling to mind the actions he had done from hisyouth, and recollecting his courage, as if he had been excitedby a divine fury, he covered himself and those that were withhim with their shields, and formed a testudo over both theirbodies and their armor, and bore up against the enemies'attacks, who came running down from the top of the city;and without showing any dread at the multitude of the menor of their darts, he endured all, until the enemy took noticeof that divine courage that was within him, and remitted oftheir attacks; and when they pressed less zealously upon him,he retired, though without showing his back to them, till hewas gotten out of the walls of the city. Now a great numberof the Romans fell in this battle, among whom was Ebutius,the decurion, a man who appeared not only in this engage­ment, wherein he fell, but every where, and in former engage­ments to be of the truest courage, and one that had done verygreat mischief to the Jews. But there was a centurion whosename was Gallus, who during this disorder being encompassedabout, he and ten other soldiers privately crept into the houseof a certain person, where he heard them talking at supperwhat the people intended to do against the Romans, or aboutthemselves (for both the man himself and those with him wcroSyrians.) So he got up in the night-time, and cut all theirthroats, and escaped, together with his soldiers, to the Romans. 6. And now Vespasian comforted his army, which was much