OCR Output LACONIA. LACOKIA. 109 tnvnity of Greece. This mountainous district betweenthe Laconian and Messfiiian gulfs is now calledMam, aikl is inhabited by the Mania tes, who alwaysmaintained their independence, while the rest of(ireece was subject to the Turks : the southern partor the peninsula, as well as the promontory, bore thename of Taenaruin in antiquity. [Taenarum.]Although there is no trace of any volcanic action inJit- Taygetus, many of its chasms and the rentforms of its rocks have been produced by the nume­rous and violent earthquakes to which the districthas been subjected. Hence Lacoiiia is called byHomer *' full of hollows" (lojT&Wo-a, 77. ii. 581,(hi. iv. 1). and Strabo describes it as a countryeasily shaken by earthquakes (Strab. viii. p. 367).Id tlie fearful earthquake, which laid Sparta inruins in it. c. 464, and killed more than 20,000Lacedaemonians, huge masses of rocks were rolleddown fruin the highest peaks of Taygetus. (Hut.Cm. 16.) On the sides of Mt. Taygetus are forests of deepgram pine, which abounded in ancient times withpuM and wild animals, among which Pausaniasi;-rations wild goats, wild boars, staffs, and bears.The district between the summits of Taletum andEvoras was called Tiikras (€bjf»as), or the huntingground. (Pans, iii. 20. §§ 4, 5.) Hence Taygetuswas one of the favourite haunts of the huntressArtemis (Od. vi. 103), and the excellence of theLaoonian dogs was proverbial in antiquity. (Aristot.Hist An. vi. 20; Xen. de Ten. 10. § 1; Virg.Gtorg. iii. 405; Hor. Epod. vi. 5.) Modern travellerst*li us tltat trie dogs of the country still supporttheir ancient character for ferocity and courage.(Mare, vol. ii. p. 231.) The southern part of Mount Taygetus is rich inmarble and iron. Near Croceae there were quarries^i green porphyry, which was extensively employedby the Romans. [Crockae.] There was alsoanother kind of marble obtained from quarries moreto the south, called by the Romans Taenarian marble.Tbe whetstones of Mount Taygetus were likewise inmuch request (Strab. viii.p. 367; "Taenarius lapis,"PUn. xsxvi. 22. s. 43; "cotes Laconicae ex Targetomoute," Plin. xxxvi. 22. s. 47.) The iron found inU»e mountain was considered very good, and wastnnch used in the manufacture of warlike weaponsand agricultural in>>trtiments. (Stepb. B. s. v.AtuttHaifutv. Xen. JleU. iii. 3. §7; Plin. vii. 57;Kustath. nd II. p. 298, ed. Rom.) Mocnt PMtNOX (o ndpvuv, Pans. ii. 38. § 7)u of an entirely different character from the oppositerange of Taygetus. It does not form one uninter­rupted line of mountains, but us broken up intovarious detached masses of less elevation, whichfjjm a striking contrast to the unbroken and ma­jestic barrier of Taygetus. The mass to which thename of Parnon was more especially applied wasthe ran^e of mountains, now called Malevo, formingthe natural boundary between Arcadia, I,aconia,ao-1 Argolis, It is 6355 feet high, and its summitU nearly equidistant from the Eurotas and tbeea»Urn coast. This mountain is continued in aET.fral south-easterly direction, hut how far south­wards it continued to bear the name of Parson isunknown. Its eastern declivities, which extend asf« a* tbe coast at a considerable elevation, containtb* <ii»tri<:t now called Tzaiunia, a corruption of the»<rd Lacouia, the inhabitants of which speak a•lutWt cl-a«ly resembling the ancient Greek: of this•■ accanut lias been given elsewhere. [Vol. I. p. 728.] On its western side Mt. Parnon sinkslown more rapidly, and divides itself into separatehills, which bear the names of Barbosthknes,Olympus, Ossa, Tiiornax, and Menelaiim; thetwo last are opjx>sito Sparta, and a modern observerdescribes Menelaium as not remarkable either forheight or variety of outline, but rising gradually ina succession of gentle ridges. (Mure, vol. ii. p. 223.)In its southern continuation, Mt. Parnon still con­tinues of moderate height till near the commence­ment of the peninsula between the Myrtoan andLaconian gulfs, where it rises under the name ofMount Zarax (Zapa£) to a height of 3500 feet,and runs along the eastern coast at a considerableelevation, till it reaches the promontory of Malea. The Ei-kotas (Eypjiras) flows, as already ob­served, throughout the entire length of the valleybetween the ranges of Taygetus and Parnon. Itsmore ancient names were Bomycas (Baijuwtas,Etym. M. s. v.) and Himrrus ("l/i*po$, Plut. deFluv. 17): it is now called Iris and Niris in itsupper and middle course, and Banli-potamo fromthe time it leaves the Spartan plain till it reachesthe sea. In its course three districts may be dis­tinguished;— the vale of the upper Eurotas; thevale of the middle Eurotas, or the plain of Sparta;and the vale of the lower Eurotas, or the maritimeplain. 1. The Vale of tJie Upper Eurotas. Theriver Eurotas rises in the mountains which form thesouthern boundary of the Arcadian plains of Aseaand Megalopolis. It was believed by both Pausaniasand Strabo that the Alpheius and the Eurotas hada common origin, and that, after flowing togetherfor a short distance, they sank under ground; thoAlpheius reappearing at Pegae, in the territory ofMegalopolis in Arcadia, and the Eurotas in theBleminatis in Laconia; but for a fuller account oftheir statements upon this subject the reader isreferred to the article Alpheius. All that weknow for certain is that the Eurotas is formed bythe union of several copious springs rising on thesouthern side of the mountain above mentioned, andthat it flows from a narrow glen, which graduallyopens towards the SSW. On the eastern side itkeeps close to the mountains, while on the westernside there is a little level ground and some moun­tain slopes between the river and the heights ofTaygetus. At the distance of little more than amile from Sparta, the Eurotas receives the Oenl\s(OiVoDs, Polyb. ii. 65,66; Athen. i. p. 31; Liv.xxxiv. 28), now called Kthfina, which risesin the watershed of Mt. Parnon, and flows in ageneral south-westerly direction: the principal tri­butary of the Oenus was the Gorgylus (TdpyvXos,Polyb. ii. 66), probably the river of Vretntend.(Leake, Ptlopotmtshica, p. 347.) Nearly oppositethe union of the Oenus and the Eurotas, the moun­tains of Taygetus press close upon the river, butagain almost immediately withdraw to a greaterdistance than before, and the river emerges into theSpartan plain. 2. The Vide of the Middle Eurotas. Spartais situated at the commencement of this vale on theleft bank of the Eurotas. Between the river andMt. Taygetus the plain is of considerable extent.Its soil is particularly adapted for the growth ofolives, which are in the present day preferred tothose of Athens; and the silk of the Spartan plainis superior to the silk of every other district ofGreece. (Mure, vol. ii. p. 224.) The soil, however,cannot be compared with that of the rich Alcsseuiuu