OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 95 number of their most trusty partisans to the vengeance ofthe multitude, or to assume collectively the responsibilityof the outrage: the latter course was adopted. Theygave an official sanction to the assertion that Gracchus hadwished to seize the crown, and justified this latest crimeby the primitive precedent of Ahala (i. 301); in fact,they even committed the duty of further investigation asto the accomplices of Gracchus to a special commission,and made its head, the consul Publius Popillius, take carethat a sort of legal stamp should be supplementarily im­pressed on the murder of Gracchus by bloody sentencesdirected against a large number of inferior persons (622). 132.Nasica, against whom above all others the multitude breathedvengeance, and who had at least the courage openly toavow his deed before the people and to defend it, was-under honourable pretexts despatched to Asia, and soonafterwards (624) invested, during his absence, with the 130.office of Pontifex Maximus. Nor did the moderate partydissociate themselves from these proceedings of their col­leagues. Gaius Laelius bore a part in the investigationsadverse to the partisans of Gracchus; Publius Scaevola, whohad attempted to prevent the murder, afterwards defendedit in the senate; when Scipio -3£milianus, after his returnfrom Spain (622), was challenged publicly to declare 132.whether he did or did not approve the killing of his brother-in-law, he gave the at least ambiguous reply that, so far asTiberius, had aspired to the crown, he had been justly put todeath. Let us endeavour to form a judgment regarding these The domainmomentous events. The appointment of an official com- questionmission, which had to counteract the continual diminution yle^ed lnof the farmer-class by the continual establishment of newsmall holdings from the resources of the state, was doubtlessno sign of a healthy condition of the national economy; but itwas, under the existing circumstances political and social, ajudicious measure. The distribution of the domains, more­over, was in itself no political parjy-question; it might havebeen carried out to the last sod, without changing the exist­ing constitution or at all shaking the government of thearistocracy. As little could there be, in that case, any com­plaint of a violation of rights. The state was confessedlythe owner of the occupied land; the holder as a possessoron mere sufferance could not, as a rule, ascribe to himself