OCR Output 24 ESSAY ON THE show that the freedom of Latin writers could be abridged by no rigidand arbitrary rules: 'e. g., Ann. I., 18, Plurimi detrita tegmina etnudum corpus exprobantes; Hist. IV. 77, Neque aliud excusandumhabeo, quam quod vos Gallici foederis oblitos praedixerim, memoriamRomani sacramenii lenere credidi. C. Roth has collected and ex­plained many examples in Agr. Ex. XIII. He also makes frequent use of the figures of rhetoric, in order torender his style brilliant, particularly of the antithesis: Hist. L,36, Omnia sEkviLItER pro domiNatioNE ; Ann. II., 52, Spe vicTOkiaEinducti sunt ut yiscEkENTuR ; Hist. I., 65, Uno amne disckETiscoNNExtjm odium. Alliterations also, to which Latin authors aresomewhat tempted by the very nature of their language: e. g., Ann.I., 51, si poenitentiam, quam perniciem malebat; A. 1, virtus ....vicit vitium. Moreover he abounds in what we call in barbarous Latinallusiones. No one is ignorant into what absurdities the scrupulous­ness of commentators has fallen, who, as often as they find certainwords, similar to those of some former writer, cry out at once, " imi­tation." But Tacitus often does not imitate others, but rather alludesto them, especially the poets, by repeating some words, remarkableeither for beauty of sentiment or felicity of expression, and thus ex­citing a pleasing recollection in his readers. And it is often doubtfulwhether he did this wittingly or unwittingly. Now none of the poetswas better known, or more celebrated at that age, than Virgil, whosewords, Haec ubi dicta dedit, Livy long ago had not hesitated to in­troduce into his narrative. Numberless expressions from the sameauthor may be found in Tacitus, scattered here and there. Morerarely will you find the words of Horace ; as, Ann. XV., 37, Ex ilhcontaminatorum grege, coll. Carm. I., 37, 9, for I do not believe, that,in common prose, eunuchs come under the term contaminati. No­where, so far as I know, does he allude to Ovid, a writer entirelyunlike himself in taste and style, for I am not of the opinion that thewords in Agr. 44, were drawn from Ovid. Of prose writers hequoted Sallust most frequently. From a comparison with Livy,Trillerus has made a £ood correction in Hist. II., 80. Near theclose of Agricola he manifestly refers his readers to a most beautifulpassage of Cicero de Oratore. If I have rightly corrected Agr. 42,he has there quoted verbatim the language of Seneca. It were easyalso to traoe resemblances between Tacitus, Demosthenes, Thucy-dides, and Plato; and the verses of Homer are recognised in Hist. I.,80 ; and Agr. 34. Thus much concerning the style of Tacitus. If I had undertaken towrite a book on Tacitus, many topics would still remain to be discussedtouching the genius of the writer, and his political and religious