OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 467 traced the steps of a revolution so pleasing, in Gregory'sopinion, both to heaven and earth ; and Phocas does notappear less hateful in the exercise than in the acquisitionof power. The pencil of an impartial historian has de- Hiscba-lineated the portrait of a monster ;c his diminutive andrac r'deformed person, the closeness of his shaggy eye-brows,his red hair, his beardless chin, and his cheek, disfiguredand discoloured by a formidable scar. Ignorant of let­ters, of laws, and even of arms, he indulged in the su­preme rank a more ample privilege of lust and drunken­ness, and his brutal pleasures were either injurious to hissubjects or disgraceful to himself. Without assumingthe office of a prince, he renounced the profession of asoldier; and the reign of Phocas afflicted Europe withignominious peace, and Asia with desolating war. Hissavage temper was inflamed by passion, hardened by fear,exasperated by resistance or reproach. The flight- ofTheodosius to the Persian court had been intercepted bya rapid pursuit, Or a deceitful message: he was beheadedat Nice, and the last hours of the young prince weresoothed by the comforts of religion and the conscious­ness of innocence. Yet his phantom disturbed the re­pose of the usurper: a whisper was circulated throughthe east, that the son of Maurice was still alive: thepeople expected their avenger, and the widow and daugh­ters of the late emperor would have adopted as their sonand brother the vilest of mankind. In the massacre ofthe imperial family/ the mercy, or rather the discretion,of Phocas, had spared these unhappy females, and they fastigiam perpenisse gaudemus. Ltetentur coeli et exultet terra, et de vestris benig-nia actibus universal reipublica? populas nunc usqae rehementsr afflictus bilarescat,&o. This base flattery, the topic of Protestant invectire, is justly censured by thephilosopher Bayle. (Dictionaire Critiqoe, Gregoire I. not. H. torn. 2. p. 597, 598.)Cardinal Baronius justifies the pope at the expense of the fallen emperor. c The images of Phocas were destroyed; bat even the malioe of bia enemieswould suffer one copy of sach a portrait or caricatare (Cedrenus, p. 404.) to escapethe flames. 4 The family of Maurice is represented by Ducange : (Famiiias Byzaotinae, p. 106—108.) his eldest son Theodosius had been crowned emperor when he was no more <than four years and a half old, and he is always joined with bis father in the salu­tations of Gregory. With the Christian daughters, Auastasia and Theocteste, I amsurprised to find the Pagan name of Cleopatra.