OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. 397 duced Antipater as their antagonist, and imagined that he madea good provision for discouraging their pride, and that after thiswas done to the young men, there might be a proper season forexpecting these to be of a better disposition: But the event provedotherwise than he intended, for the young men thought he didthem a very great injury; and as Antipater was a shrewd man,when he had once obtained this degree of freedom, and began toexpect greater things than he had before hoped for, he had butone single design in his head, and that Was, to distress his bre­thren, and not at all to yield to them the pre-eminence, but tokeep close to his father, who was already alienated from themby the calumnies he had heard about them, and ready to bewrought upon in any way his zeal against them should advisehim to pursue, that he might be continually more and morese-'vere against them. Accordingly, all the reports that were spreadabroad came from him, while he avoided himself the suspicionof those discoveries proceeding from him, for he rather chose tomake use of those persons for his assistants that were unsuspected,and such as might be believed to speak truth by reason of thegood-will they bore to the king; and indeed there were alreadynot a few who cultivated a friendship with Antipater, in hopesof gaining somewhat by him, and these were the men who mostof all persuaded Herod, because they appeared to speak thus out'of their good-will to him: and while these joint accusations,'which from various foundations supported one another's veracity,the young men themselves afforded farther occasions to An­tipater also: for they were observed to shed tears often, on ac­count of the injury that was offered them, and had their motherin their mouths, and among their friends they ventured to re­proach their father, as not acting justly by them; all whichthings were with an evil intention reserved in memory by An­tipater against a proper opportunity; and when they were toldto Herod, with aggravations, increased the disorder so much, that *it brought a great tumult into the family; for while the king wasvery angry at imputations that were laid upon the sons of Mariam-ne, and was desirous to humble them, he still increased the honourthat he had bestowed on Antipater; and was at last so overcome-by his persuasions, that he brought his mother to court also.He also wrote frequently to Caesar in favour of him, and moreearnestly recommended him to his particular care. And whenAgrippa was returning to Rome, after he had finished his ten* years'government in Asia, Herod sailed fromJudea; amiwhen he met with him, he had none with him but Antipater, * This interval of ten years for die duration of Marcus Agrippa's government inAsia, seems to be true, and agreeable to the Roman liiitory. See Usher's AnnalsIt A. M. .1392. vpL. iI. 3 C 2?