OCR Output 136 . T) .... . i- i ', U.C.772 ^ ,ppened, before Germanicus expired, that certain iders from Syria arrived at Rome with favourable: counts. What was wished, was easily believed. ae news spread with rapidity; he who heard imper足fectly made his report with additions ; others did thesame : and thus the story went on, gathering strengthfrom mouth to mouth, and diffusing universal joy.The populace ran wild through the streets; they threwopen the gates of the temples; night came on; thehurry still continued; assertion grew more confidentin the dark, and credulity listened with a greedy ear.Tiberius saw the delusion, but calmly left it to itsown futility. Time disclosed the truth; the peoplerenewed their sorrow with redoubled violence, as ifthe prince had been torn from them a second time. LXXXII1. The senate met to decree honours to hismemory. Friendship put itself to the stretch, andmen of talents exhausted their invention. It wasvoted that the name of Germanicus should be insert足ed in the Salian hymn; that a curule chair, adornedwith a civic crown, should be placed in the college of :Augustan priests; that his statue, wrought in ivory,should be carried in the procession of the Circensiangames; and that the vacancy made by his death inthe list of flamens and augurs, should be filled fromthe Julian family only. Triumphal arches were or足dered to be erected at Rome, on the Rhine, and mountAmanus in Syria, with inscriptions setting forth thesplendour of his actions, and, in direct terms, declar足ing that he died in the service of his country. At. ntioch, where his remains were burnt, a mausoleum as ordered; and at Epidaphne, where he died, a tri-,unal in honour of his memory. Of the several.,1 atues, and the places where they were to be worship-I od, it would be difficult to give a regular catalogue. was farther proposed that a shield of pure gold, ex-ceding the ordinary size, should be dedicated to himin the place allotted to orators of distinguished elo-q uence. Tiberius overruled the motion, declaring his jintention to order one of the common size, and4hesual metal. Superior rank, he said, did not confersuperior eloquence, A place among the great writers