OCR Output On the Life of Thucydides. hath not intirely preserved his memory, and been solely in­strumental in ennobling and perpetuating the man. His education no doubt was such, as might be expectedfrom the splendor of his birth, the opulence of his family,and the good taste then prevailing in Athens, the politestcity that then existed, or ever yet existed in the world. Itis impossible however to give any detail of it. The verylittle to be found about it in writers of any class whatever,seems merely of a presumptive though probable kind. It issaid Anaxagoras was his preceptor in philosophy, becausethe name of Anaxagoras was great at this period of time.Anaxagoras, the preceptor of Euripides, of Pericles, and ofSocrates, is named also by Marcellinus for the preceptor ofThucydides. And he adds, quoting Antyllus for an evi­dence, that " it was whispered about that Thucydides was" atheistical, because he was so fond of the theory of Anax-" agoras, who was generally reputed and stiled an atheist."The solution of an eclipse from natural causes, accountingfor appearances from the laws of motion, and investigatingthe course of nature, were sufficient proofs of atheismamongst a people so superstitious as the Athenians. Thu­cydides, possibly, might be well acquainted with the philo­sophy of Anaxagoras, without having personally attendedhis lectures. However that be, his own history abundantlyshews that he was no atheist; it may be added, and nopolytheist. By his manner of speaking of the oracles andpredictions tossed about in his own time, it is plain helooked upon them as equivocal, or rather insinuates them tobe mere forgeries. " And yet, says Mr. Hobbes*, he con-" firms an assertion of his own, touching the time this war" lasted, by the oracle's prediction." The passage occurs inthe fifth book of this history. But whoever considers it, willfind it only an argumentum ad hominem, to stop the mouthsof such as believed in oracles, from contesting his own com­putation of the. whole time the Peloponnesian war lasted. Of the Life and History of Thucydides.