OCR Output 2C2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. est of the towers was shaken by it, and fell down, and brakedown a part of the fortifications, so the enemy poured in apace,and Cornelius Faustus, the son of Sylla, with his soldiers, firstof all ascended the wall, and next to him Furius the centurion,with those that followed on the other part, while Fabius, whowas also a centurion, ascended it in the middle, with a greatbody of men after him. But now all was full of slaughter; someof the Jews being slain by the Romans, and some by one ano­ther; nay, some there were who threw themselves down the pre­cipices, or put fire to their houses, and burnt them, as not ableto bear the miseries they were under. Of the Jews there felltwelve thousand, but of the Romans very few. Absalom, whowas at once both uncle and father-in-law to Aristobulus, wustaken captive. And no small enormities were committed aboutthe temple itself, which, in former ages, had been inaccessibleand seen by none; for Pompey went into it, and not a few ofthose that were with him also, and saw all that which it wasunlawful for any other men to see but only for the high priests.There were in that temple the golden table, the holy candlestick,and the pouring vessels, and a great quantity of spices; and be­sides these there were among the treasures two thousand ta­lents of sacred money; Yet * did Pompey touch nothing of allthis, on account of his regard to religion; and in this point alsohe acted in a manner that was worthy of his virtue. The nextday he gave order to those that had the charge of the temple tocleanse it, and to bring what offerings the law required to God:and restored the high priesthood to Hyrcanus, both because hehad been useful to him in other respects, and because he hin­dered the Jews in the country from giving Aristobulus any as­sistance in his war against him. He also cut off' those that hadbeen the authors of that war; and bestowed proper rewards onFaustus, and those others that mounted the wall with such alac­rity: and he made Jerusalem tributary to the Romans; andtook away those cities of Coelesyria which the inhabitants of Ju-dea had subdued, and put them under the government of the Ro­man president, and confined the whole nation, which had elevat­ed itself so high before, within its own bounds. Moreover, hef rebuilt Gadara, which had been demolished a little before, togratify Demetrius of Gadara, who was his freed man, and re­stored the rest of the cities, Hippos, and Scy thopolis, and Pellaand Dios, and Samaria, as also Marissa, and Ashdod, and Jam­ * This is fully confirmed by the testimony of Cicero, who says in his oration forFlaccus, That " Cneius Pompeius, when he was conqueror, and had taken Jeru-"salem, did not touch any thing belonging to that temple." f Of this destruction of Gadara litre presupposed, and its restoration by Pompey,see the note on the War, B. I. ch. vii. sect. 7. vol. 111.