OCR Output CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY. "37? The senate, before the tribunes had time to speak ofa distribution of the territory of Lavicum,* and by thatmeans revive the disputes about the Agrarian law; at afull meeting, very judiciously voted, ' that a colony'should be planted at Lavicum,' Fifteen hundred citi足zens went thither, to each of whom were assigned two-Roman acres.f After the capture of Lavicum, for thefirst year, Agrippa Menenius Lanatus, L. Servilins Struc-tus, and, P. Lucretius Tficipitinus, all for the second'time, and Sp. Rutilius Crassus ; and for the year follow足ing, A. Sempronius Atratinus,- for the third time; andM. Papirius Mugilanus, with Sp. Nautius Rutilius, forthe second time, presided in quality of military tribuneswith consular power. During these two years, all wasquiet abroad; but the domestic tranquillity was greatlydisturbed with disputes about the Agrarian law( CHAP. XLVII I. Contests about the Agrarian law. Advice of Appitis. J. HE tribunes wlio at this time kept the people in a -ferment, were Sp. Maecilius and Metilius, who had beenboth elected in their absence; the former for the fourth,and the latter for the third time. They had preferred abill, for an equal .distribution of the conquered landsamong the citizens, f But as the city itself stood on con足quered ground, ana- scarce any land about it, but whathad been the perquisite of their valour, which, by thebye, excepting what the people had in possession, had-neither been exposed to sale, nor distributed by publicauthority, by this bill,) the greatest part of the estates ofthe nobility must hSve been confiscated, which of con足sequence seemed to lay the foundation of very warm,contests between the senate and people. Nor could themilitary tribune.', although they often convened thesenate, and ha'd private conventions of the principal menof the Patrician party, fall on any expedient to" obviatethis dilemma, till Appius Claudius, the grandson of that * A city of the Latins, about 15 miles from Rome,f Jugcrum, 240 by 120 feet, or 5-Tihs of an English acre,'