OCR Output ah. 976.] 297 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was buried in Jerusalem: having been supe­rior to all other kings in happiness, riches,and wisdom; excepting that when he wasgrown in years, he was deluded by women,and transgressed the law, concerning whichtransgressions, and the miseries which befellthe Hebrews thereby, I think proper to dis­course at another opportunity.* CHAP. VIII. of rehoboam's conduct after his father's death; AND THE REVOLT OF TEN TRIBES UNDER JEROBOAM. NOWf when Solomon was dead, and hisson Rehoboam (who was born of anAmmonite wife, whose name was Naamah)had succeeded him in the kingdom, therulers of the multitude sent immediately intoEgypt, and recalled Jeroboam. And whenhe was come to the city Shechem, Rehoboamcame thither also; for he had resolved todeclare himself king of the Israelites, whilethey were there gathered together. So therulers of the people, as well as Jeroboam,came to him and said, that he ought to relax,and to be gentler than his father in the servi­tude he had imposed on them; because theyhad borne a heavyJ yoke,|| and that thenthey should be better affected to him, andbe well contented to serve him under hismoderate government, and should do it moreout of love than fear. But Rehoboam toldthem, they should come to him again in threedays' time, when he would give an answer totheir request. This delay gave occasion to a present suspicion; since he had not giventhem a favourable answer immediately, flow-ever they thought that his consultation aboutit afforded some hope of success. Rehoboam now called his father's friends,and advised with them, what sort of answerhe ought to give to the multitude. Uponwhich they gave him the advice which be­came friends, and those that knew the tem­per of such a multitude; they advised himto speak in a way more popular than suitedthe grandeur of a king; because he wouldthereby oblige them to submit to him withgood will: it being most agreeable to sub­jects, that their kings should be almost upona level with them. But Rehoboam rejectedthis good and profitable advice: (it was suchat least at that time, when he was to be madeking:) God himself, I suppose, causing whatwas most advantageous to be contemned byhim. So he called for the young men whowere brought up with him,§ and told themwhat advice the elders had given him, andbade them speak what they thought he oughtto do. So they advised him to give the lol-lowing answer to the people, (for neithertheir youth, nor God himself, suffered themto discern what was best,) That his littlefinger should be thicker than his father'sloins; and, if they had met with hard usagefrom his father, they should experience muchrougher treatment from him: and if his fatherhad chastised them with whips, they mustexpect that he would do it with scorpions.**The king was pleased with this advice; and * This discourse is now wanting.t An. 976. I Probably in maintaining his court, and, in particular,his numerous wives and concubines. II What the particular grievances were that thesepeople desired to have redressed, we may gather from 1Kings iv. 7, &c. viz. the tribute Solomon exacted for hisbuildings, the expenses of his family, and the maintenanceof his chariots and horses, which being for the honour.if the nation, ought to have been borne more contentedlyby a people enjoying such a large share of peace andplenty, and from a prince who had brought in such vastriches to his subjects, as made silver to be of no valueat all in his days, chap. x. 21. but people are more sen­sible of their pressures than of their enjoyments, andfeel the least burdens when they are most at ease. It isobservable, however, that among all their complaints,they take no notice of Solomon's-idolatry, or the strangeworship which he had introduced, though this, one wouldthink, should have been reckoned among the greatest oftheir grievances. Patrick'* Commentary. B. § It was a common custom among the kings of the east,to have their sons educated among other young lords thatwere of the same age, which, as it created a generousspirit of emulation, and both endeared the prince to thenobles and the nobles to the prince, could not but tendgreatly to the benefit of the public. Sesostris, the mostfamous prince that ever Egypt produced, is said to havebeen educated this way. And by the gallant youths thatwere his cotemporaries and fellow pupils, it was, that heafterwards did so many surprising actions. The samecustom was in use among the Persians, as we may learnfrom the life of Cyrus; and of Alexander the Great weare told, that his father Philip had trained him up in hisyouth, among those young noblemen who became hisgreat captains in the conquest of all Asia. So that Solo­mon's method and design, in the education of his son,was wise and well concerted, though it failed of success.Calmet's Commentary. B. ** That by scorpions is not here meant the small ani­mals so called, which were never used in corrections;but either a shrub with sharp prickles, like the stings