OCR Output 204 ROMAN EMPIRE. virtues of a soldier are insensibly nursed in the habitsand discipline of a pastoral life. The care of the sheepand camels is abandoned to the women of the tribe; butthe martial youth under the banner of the emir, is everon horseback, and in the field, to practise the exerciseof the bow, the javelin, and the scimitar. The long me­mory of their independence is the firmest pledge of itsperpetuity, and succeeding generations are animated toprove their descent, and to maintain their inheritance.Their domestic feuds are suspended on the approach ofa common enemy; and in their last hostilities againstthe Turks, the caravan of Mecca was attacked and pil­laged by fourscore thousand of the confederates. Whenthey advance to battle, the hope of victory is in thefront; in the rear, the assurance of a retreat. Theirhorses and camels, who in eight or ten days can performa march of four or five hundred miles, disappear beforethe conqueror; the secret waters of the desert elude hissearch; and his victorious troops are consumed withthirst, hunger, and fatigue, in the pursuit of an invisiblefoe, who scorns his efforts, and safely reposes in the heartof the burning solitude. The arms and deserts of theBedoweens are not only the safeguards of their ownfreedom, but the barriers also of the happy Arabia,whose inhabitants, remote from war, are enervated by theluxury of the soil and climate. The legions of Augustusmelted away in disease and lassitude ;d and it is only bya naval power that the reduction of Yemen has been suc­cessfully attempted. When Mahomet erected his holystandard,0 that kingdom was a province of the Persianempire; yet seven princes of the Homerites still reignedin the mountains: and the vicegerent of Chosroes was i> Strabo, lib. 16. p. 1127—1129. Plin. Hist. Natur. 6. 3«. .lElius Gallus landednear Medina, and marched near a thousand miles into the part of Yemen betweenMareb and the ocean. The non ante de victis Sabeae regibus, (Od. 1. p. 29.) and theintacti Arabum thesauii (Od. 3. 24.) of Horace, attest the virgin parity of Arabia. 'See the imperfect history of Yemen in Pocock, Specimen, p. 55—-66. of Hira,p. 66—74. of Gassan, p. 75—78. as fai as it could be known or preserved in thetime of ignoiance.