OCR Output Chap. XXTII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 319 grew up to be men, and when they were come to an age fit formarriage, the one of them married their aunt Salome's daughter,which Salome had been the accuser of their mother; t!ie othermarried the daughter of Archelaus, king of Cappadocia. Andnow they used boldness in speaking, as well as bore hatred intheir minds. Now those that calumniated them took a handlefrom such their boldness, and certain of them spake now moreplainly to the king that there were treacherous designs laid againsthim by both his sons, and he that was son-in-law to Archelaus,relying upon his father-in-law, was preparing to fly away, inorder to accuse Herod before Caesar'; and when Herod's head hadbeenlong enough filled with these calumnies,hebroughtAntipater,whom he had by Doris, into favour again, as a defence to him'against his other sons, and began all the ways he possibly couldto prefer him before them. 2. But these sons were not able to bear this change in their af足fairs, but when they saw him that was born of a mother of nofamily, the nobility of their birth made them unable to containtheir indignation; but whensoever they were uneasy, they shew足ed the anger they had at it. And as these sons did day after dayinprove in thattheiranger, Antipateralreadyexercisedallhisownabilities, which were very great, in flattering his father, and incontrivingmany sorts of calumnies against his brethren, while hetold some stories of them himself, and put it upon other properpersons to raise other stories against them, till at length he entire足ly cut his brethern off from all hopes of succeeding to the king足dom ; for he was already publicly put into his father's will ashis successor* Accordingly, he was sent with royal ornaments,and other marks of royalty, to Caesar, excepting the diadem.He was also able in time to introduce his mother again into Mar-riamne's bed. The two sorts of weapons he made use of againsthis brethern, were flattery and calumny, whereby be broughtmatters privately to such a pass, that the king had thoughts ofputting his sons to death. 3. So the father drew Alexander as far as Rome, and chargedhim with an attempt of poisoning him before Caesar. Alexandercould hardly speak for lamentation, but having a judge that wasmore skilful than Antipater,and more wise than Herod, hemodest-ly avoided laying any imputation upon his father, but with greatstrength of reason confuted the calumnies laid against him; andwhen he had demonstrated the innocencyof his brother, who wasin the like danger with himself, he at last bewailed the craftinessof Antipater, and the disgrace they were under. He was enabledalso to justify himself, not only by a clear conscience, which hecarried with him, but by his eloquence; for he was a shrewd man