OCR Output 322 [book it. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK IX. Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Fifty-seven Years. FROM THE DEATH OF AHAB TO THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES. CHAP. I. of jehoshaphat's pious conduct; HIS appointment of JUDGES, AND HIS VICTORIES OVER HIS ENEMIES. WHEN Jehoshaphat was come to Jeru­salem, from the assistance he hadafforded Ahab, king of Israel, against theSyrians, the prophet Jehu met him and ac­cused him for assisting an impious prince;and said to him, that God was displeasedwith him for so doing, but that he deliveredhim from the enemy, notwithstanding he hadsinned, because of his own disposition, whichwas good. Hereupon the king betook him­self to thanksgivings, and sacrifices to God;and soon afterward went over all that countrywhich he ruled round about, and taught thepeople to observe the laws which God gavethem by Moses, and that religious worshipthat was due to him. He also appointedjudges in all the cities of his kingdom; andcharged them to have regard to nothing somuch in judging the multitude as to do jus­tice, and not to be moved by bribes, nor bythe dignity of men eminent for either theirbirth or riches; but to distribute justiceequally to all;* as knowing that God is con­scious of every secret action. When he hadinstructed them thus, and gone over every * The charge or solemn admonition which Jehoshaphatgave the judges, whom he appointed in each city, runs inthese words:—Take heed what ye do, for ye judge not forman, hut for the Lord, who is with you in the judgment:wherefore now, let the fear of the Lord be upon you:Take heed and do it; for there is no iniquity with the Lordour God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of gifts,2 Chron. xix. 6, 7. It is a remarkable saying of Cicero,that judges, being sworn to do justice, should remember,when they come to pass sentence, "Deum habere testem: city of the two tribes, he returned to Jeru­salem. He there also constituted judges outof the priests and Levites,t and principalpersons of the multitude; and admonishedthem to pass all their sentences with careand justice. And that if any of the peopleof his country had differences of great conse­quence, they would send them out of theother cities, to these judges, who would beobliged to give righteous sentences con­cerning such causes, and this with the greatercare, because it is proper that the sentenceswhich are given in that city where the templeof God is, and wherein the king dwells, begiven with the utmost care and equity. Nowhe set over them Amariah, the priest, andZebadiah, of the tribe of Judah. And afterthis manner it was that the king ordered theseaffairs. About the same time the Moabites andAmmonites made an expedition against Je­hoshaphat, and took with them a great bodyof Arabians; and pitched their camp at En-gedi, a city situate near the lake Asphaltites,and distant three hundred furlongs from Je­rusalem. In that place grew the best kindof palm-trees, and the opobalsamum.J NowJehoshaphat heard that the enemies hadpassed over the lake, and had made an irrup- id est ut ego arbitror mentem suatn, qua nihil homini deditipse Deus divinus." De Offic. lib. 3. c. 13. B. t These judges constituted by Jehoshaphat, were akind of Jerusalem Sanhedrim, out of the priests, the Le-vites, and the principal of the people; both here and2 Chron. xix. 8. much like the old Christian Judicaturesof the bishop, the presbyters, the deacons, and thepeople. Concerning this precious balsam, see the note on VI h.