OCR Output 52 ROMAN EMPIRE. pose their hands on his deacon and successor Pelagius,Yet the perseverance of the popes insensibly transferredto their adversaries the appellation of schismatics: theIllyrian, African, and Italian churches, were oppressedby the civil and ecclesiastical powers, not without someeffort of military force ;e the distant barbarians tran­scribed the creed of the Vatican, and in the period of acentury, the schism of the three chapters expired in anobscure angle of the Venetian province/ But the re­ligious discontent of the Italians had already promotedthe conquests of the Lombards, and the Romans them­selves were accustomed to suspect the faith, and to de­test the government, of their Byzantine tyrant.Heres of Justinian was neither steady nor consistent inJustinian, the nice process of fixing his volatile opinions A. D. 564. 'and those of his subjects. In his youth, he wasoffended by the slightest deviation from the orthodoxline; in his old age he transgressed the measure of tem­perate heresy, and the Jacobites, not less than the Ca­tholics, were scandalized by his declaration, that thebody of Christ was incorruptible, and that his man­hood was never subject to any wants and infirmities, theinheritance of our mortal flesh. This fantastic opinionwas announced in the last edicts of Justinian; and atthe moment of his seasonable departure, the clergy hadrefused to transcribe, the prince was prepared to per­secute, and the people were resolved to suffer or resist.A bishop of Treves, secure beyond the limits of hispower, addressed the monarch of the east in thelanguage of authority and affection. Most gracious 'See the complaints of Liberatus and Victor, and the exhortations of popePelagius to the conqueror and exarch of Italy. Schisma .... per potestatespublicas opprimatur, &c. (Concil. torn. 6. p. 467, &c.) An army was detained tosuppress the sedition of an Illyrian city. See Procopius: de Iii.ll. Goth. lib. 4.c. 25.) m Vff svtxa tfv^wiv a.vrott ot Xginriavoi ^mfjtA'/orra.i, He seems to promise anecclesiastical history. It would have been curious and impartial. f The bishops of the patriarchate of Aquileia were reconciled by pope Honorius,A. D. 638; (Muratori, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 5. p. 376.) but they again relapsed,and the schism was not finally extinguished till 698. Fourteen years before, thechurch of Spain had overlooked the fifth general council with contemptuous si­lence. (13 Concil. Toletan. in Concil. torn. 7. p. 487—494.)