OCR Output S72 THE DECLINE AND FALL torians, from whom alone we derive a partial and imperfect know­ledge of this persecution, are at a loss how to account for the fearsand danger of the emperors. Two of these writers, a Prince and aRhetorician, weie eye-witnesses of the fire of Nico.media. The oneascribes it to lightning, and the divine wrath ; the other affirms,that it was kindled by the malice of Galeriusjiimself,5S. .. .Executori of ^ t^e aprajnst trie Christians was designed for a general law the first edict. ° o r- o of the whole empire, and as Diocletian and Galerius, though theymight not wait for the consent, were assured of the concurrenceof the western princes, it would appear more consonant to our ideasof policy, that the governors of all the provinces should havereceived secret instructions to publish, on one and the same day,this declaration of war within their respective departments. Itwas at least to be expected, that the convenience of the public high^ways and established posts would have enabled the emperors totransmit their orders with the utmost dispatch from the palace of Nico-media to the extremities of the Roman world; and that they wouldnot have suffered fifty days to elapse, before the edict was publishedin Syria, and near four months before it was signified to the citiesof Africa ,s6. This delay may perhaps be imputed to the cautioustemper of Diocletian, who had yielded a reluctant consent to themeasures of persecution, and who was desirous of trying the ex­periment under his more immediate eye, before he gave way tothe disorders and discontent which it must inevitably occasion inthe distant provinces. At first, indeed, the magistrates were re­strained from the effusion of blood; but the use of every otherseverity was permitted and even recommended to their zeal; norcould the Christians, though they cheerfully resigned the ornamentsof their churches, resolve to interrupt their religious assemblies,or to deliver their sacred books to the flames. The pious obstinacyof Felix, an African bishop, appears to have embarrassed the sub­ordinate ministers of the government. The curator of the city sent 7 him