OCR Output CHAP. 45. ROMAN HISTORY. 81 voured to extend his empire by good policy, at the sametime that he added to the dignity of the city. At that time, there was a temple of Diana at Ephesus,much celebrated. It is reported to have been built bycontributions from all the states of Asia. Servius tookoccasion to commend these people very highly, for theirunanimity in matters of religion, before the Latin no­bility, with whom, both in his public and private capfi-city, he had studied to live on the most friendly footing Jand by resuming the subject frequently, be at last carriedhis point so far, that the Latins joined with the Romans,in the expence of building a temple to Dtana. This wasa plain acknowledgment, that Rome was their capital,a point, which they had often disputed with their swords. Although the Latins now seemed to have dropped allconcern about what they had so often attempted to esta­blish in vain; fortune seemed to point out to one of theSabines, an opportunity of recovering the superiority tohis country, by a private scheme of his own. A certainSabine had a heifer brought forth among his cattle, re­markable for her size and beauty. Her horns, whichwere hung up in the porch of the temple of Diana, re­mained for many ages, a monument of her enormousbulk. The thing was considered, and it could not wellbe doubted, in the light of a prodigy, and the sooth-savershad foretold, that the man who should sacrifice this heifefto Diana, should certainly fix the sovereignty of his coun­try. This prediction had also reached the ears of thehigh priest of Diana. The Sabine, on the first day thatseemed proper for. the sacrifice, drove the heifer to Rome,led her to the temple of Diana, and set her before the al­tar. Then the Roman priest, struck with the extraordi­nary size of the -victim, which had been so much cele­brated by fame, at the same time, recollecting the pre­diction, thus addresses the Sabine: " What do you pro-"pose, friend?" says he, " to offer sacrifice to Dtana,"with unclean hands? why do you not first wash your-"self in running water? The Tiber runs in the valley"below." The stranger being impressed with a scruple of con­science, and wishing that every thing might be in sucha train, that the event might turn out agreeable to the