OCR Output POMPTINAE PALUDES. 655 POMPTINAE PALUDES. ■ of tint writer; though Theophrastua himselfi u distinctly that the itland was in bis daysas1 to the m»inl.nii bj the accumulated depositsaBsia rivers. (Theophr. //. P. v. 8. § 3; 1'lin.i. a 9.) Another tradition, preserved to us • ;j i'tiny (L c). but wholly at variance withi Ijut, asserted that the tract then covered by iimJ rendered uninhabitable by them, had■riy keen occupied by no less than 24 (or, ac­ta; to some MSS., 33) cities. But no trace ofi Let. which he cites from Mucianus, an authorDeapunry with himself, is to he found in anym writr; and not even the name of one of thesepaed cities has been preserved; there can • •> be little doubt that the whole story hask fr»*n atime misconception. 1' »uptioe Marshes are generally representedsnT.ag their name from the city of Suessa I'o-a, ahkh appears to have been situated some-m «e their borders, though we have no clue to■viae position. [Sl'ES&a Pomktla]. The1*i«bm agtr." which is repeatedly mentionedjn. and which was cultivated with corn, and « it portioned out in lots to Roman colonistsl u. 34. iv. 25, vi. 5, 21) was probably rather sWiiii bordering on the marshes than thea raampy tract, which does not appear to have ever effectually reclaimed; though a veryamount of industry must at any time havemi to bring into cultivation considerable por- «f Use adjoining plain. As early, however, asMr 312 a. c the Appian Way appears to haveearned through the midst of the marshes (Liv.'• I>««J. xx. 36X and a canal conducted along a bum Forum Appii to Tarracina, whichSi also much resorted to as a mode of traffici Ann. 1 The institution of the Pumptine » a. c 358, and of the Ufentine tribe inits (Liv. vii. 15, ix. 20), would seem also to: la the existence of a considerable populationis saufchiiiii hnrrl at least of the l'omptinesb . bat still we have unequivocal testimony ofSKL-.jsd existence of the marshes themselvesIftriais of antiquity. (Sil. Ital viii. 380;li p. 233.&C.) • aery circumstance that the plain is borderedsjp.ni by a chain of considerable and populousi LX^stad on the mountain front, while not oneBread a* existing in the plain itself, is a suffi- - f that the latter was in great part unin- marshes are formed principally by theuf the waters of two streams, theand the Urmia, both rising in theootaina. (Strab. v. p. 233.) Of thesema the most considerable, and appears* bern regarded as the principal stream, ofAmaacnus was only a tributary. Thescribed aa a slow and sluggish stream;Italics*, amplifying the hints of Virgil,picture of its waters, black withthey alow way through the pestiferous(Virg. Aen. Tii. 801; Sil. Ital.: Chaodian. Prob. tt OL Com. 257.)rreral minor streams either flowthe Velacaan mountains, or rise imnic-f at ties- foot in copious springs of clear water,amcaaedy the case with all limestone moun-Tbe S ntrsuEca, which rises at the foot ofI at Xartst, is the most remarkable instanceThxa the whole mass of waters, the stag­ nation of which gives rise to these marshes, is veryconsiderable; and it is only by carrying these off inartificial channels to the sea that any real progresscan be made in the drainage of the district. Various attempts were made in ancient times todrain the Pontine Marshes. The first of these wasin B. c. 160, by the consul Cornelius Cethegus,which, according to the brief notice transmitted tous, would seem to have been for a time successful(Liv. Epit. xlvi.); but it is probable that the resultattained was in reality hut a partial one; and wefind them relapsing into their former state before theclose of the Republic, so that the drainage of thePontine Marshes is noticed among the great publicworkH projected by the dictator Caesar, which hedid not live to execute. (Suet. Can. 44; Plut.Cats. 58; Dion Cass. xliv. 5.) It would appearthat on this occasion also some progress was madewith the works, so that a considerable extent of landwas reclaimed for cultivation, which M. Antoniusproposed to divide among the poorer Roman citizens.(Dion Cass. xlv. 9.) Horace alludes to a similarwork as having been accomplished by Augustus(Hor. Art. Poet. 65; Schol.Crug. ad foe.); but wefind no mention of this elsewhere, and may there­fore probably conclude that no great success attendedhis efforts. Juvenal alludes to the Pontine Marshesas in his time a favourite resort of robbers andhighwaymen (Juv. iii. 307); a sufficient proof thatthe district was one thinly inhabited. The enter­prise seems to have been resumed by Trajan inconnection with his restoration of the Appian Waythrough the same district (Dion Cass. lxviiL 15);but we have no particular account of his works,though inscriptions confirm the account given byDion Cassius of his renovation of the highroad.The next serious attempt we hear of to drain thismarshy tract was that under Theodoric, which isrecorded both by Cassiodorus and by an inscriptionstill extant at Terracma. (Cassiodor. 1'ar. ii. 32,33; Gruter, Inter, p. 152. 8.) But in the periodthai followed the works naturally fell into decay,and the whole tract relajeed into an uninhabitablestate, which continued till the close of the middleages. Nor was it till quite modern times that anyimportant works were undertaken with a view toreclaim it. Pope Pius VI. was the first to reopenthe line of the Appian Way, which had been aban­doned for centuries, and restore at the same time thecanal by its side, extending from Treponti to Ter-racina. This canal takes the place of that w hichexisted in the time of Horace and Strabo, andformed the customary mode of transit for travellersproceeding from Forum Appii to Tarracina. (Hor.Sat. i. 5. 10 — 24; Strab. v. p. 233; Lncan, iii.85.) It is evidently the same which is called by Pro-copius (/»'. G. i.l 1) the Decennovium, a name whichcould only be applied to an artificial cut or canal,though that author terms it a river. The •• nineteenmiles" indicated by the name commenced fromTripontium {Treponti), from whence the canal wascarried in a straight line to within 3 miles of Tar­racina. It was this portion of the road which, aswe learn from an inscription, was restored by Tra­jan; and the canal was doubtless constructed orrestored at the same time. Hence Cassiodorusapplies the name of " Decennovii paludes" to thewhole tract of the Pontine Marshes. (Cassiod. 1'or.ii. 32, 33.) The Saturab Palus, mentioned both by Virgiland Silius Italicus in connection with the river