OCR Output 286 ROMAN EMPIRE. the Jews of Mecca or Medina adored Ezra as the sonof God.' But the children of Israel had ceased to bea people; and the religions of the world were guilty,at least in the eyes of the prophet, of giving sons, ordaughters, or companions, to the supreme God. In therude idolatry of the Arabs, the crime is manifest andaudacious: the Sabians are poorly excused by the pre­eminence of the first planet, or intelligence in their ce­lestial hierarchy; and in the Magian system the conflictof the two principles betrays the imperfection of theconqueror. The Christians of the seventh century hadinsensibly relapsed into a semblance of Paganism; theirpublic and private vows were addressed to the relicsand images that disgraced the temples of the east: thethrone of the Almighty was darkened by a cloud ofmartyrs, and saints, and angels, the objects of popularveneration; and the Collyridian heretics who flourishedin the fruitful soil of Arabia, invested the Virgin Marywith the name and honours of a goddess/ The myste­ries of the Trinity and Incarnation appear to contradictthe principle of the divine unity. In their obvioussense, they introduce three equal deities, and transformthe man Jesus into the substance of the son of God :•an orthodox commentary will satisfy only a believingmind: intemperate curiosity and zeal had torn the veilof the sanctuary; and each of the oriental sects waseager to confess that all, except themselves, deserved c Koran, c. 9. p. 153. Al Beidawi, and the other commentators quoted bySale, adhere to the charge; but I do not understand that it is coloured by the mostobscure or absurd tradition of the Talmudists. 'Iloltingi.r, Hist. Orient, p. 225—228. The Collyridian heresy was carriedfrom Thrace to Arabia by some women, and the name was borrowed from the«Xxu5-i;, or cake, which they offered to the goddess. This example, that of Urryl-lus bishop of Bostra, (Euseb. Hist. Eccles. lib. 6. c. 33.) and several others, mayexcuse the reproach, Arabia hsreeewn ferax. f The three gods in the Koran (c. 4. p. 81. c. 5. p. 92.) are obviously directedagainst our Catholic mystery; but the Arabic commentators understand them of thefather, the Son, and the Virgin Mary, an heretical trinity, maintained, as it iseaid, by some barbarians at the council of Nice. (Eutych. Annal. torn. 1. p. 440.)But the existence of the Marianitii is denied by tin- candid Beausobre, (Hist, deManicheisme.tom. l.p. 532.)andhe derives the mistake from the word Rtush, theHoly Ghost, which in some oriental tongues is of the feminine gender, and Ufiguratively styled the mother of Christ in the Gospel of the Nazarenes.