OCR Output 184 LIVY. The curule ediles were Cneius and Lucius CorneliusLentulus. Lucius held the province of Spain, andbeing elected while there, continued absent during thewhole time of his office. Tiberius Claudius Asellusand Marcus Junius Pennua were plebeian ediles. Inthat year Marcus Marcellus dedicated the temple ofVirtue, at the Capuan gate, seventeen years after ithad been vowed by his father at Clastidium in Gaul,during his first consulate. Marcus jEmilius Regillus,flamen of Mars, died that year. 12. During the two last years the affairs of Greecehad been neglected; a circumstance which enabledPhilip to reduce the jEtolians, thus forsaken by theRomans, on whose aid alone they relied. They weretherefore obliged to sue for, and agree to a peaceon such terms as the king should impose: but hadhe not used every effort to hasten the conclusionof it, Publius Sempronius, proconsul, who succeededSulpicius in the command, would have fallen on him(while engaged in settling the treaty) with ten thou­sand foot, one thousand horse, and thirty-five ships ofwar; no small force in support of an ally. The peacewas scarcely concluded, when news was brought toPhilip that the Romans had come to Dyrrachium;that the Parthinians, and other neighboring nations,seeing a prospect of changing their situation, were inmotion, and that Dimallum was besieged. The Ro­mans had turned their operations to that side, insteadof going forward to the assistance of the jEtolians,whither they had been sent, provoked at the peace thusmade with the king without their concurrence, andcontrary to the treaty. On the receipt of this news,Philip, fearing lest some greater commotions mightarise among the neighboring nations and states, pro­ceeded by long marches to Apollonia, to which placeSempronius had retired, after sending his lieutenant-general. Laetonus, with part of the forces and fifteenships, to jEtolia, that he might take a view of thesituation of affairs, and, if possible, annihilate thecompact of that people with the Macedonian. Philip