OCR Output S80 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. easily be repelled, he rushed forwards to encounterxxxviii. ^g imp]acable enemy of his name and family. Butthe courage of the Gepidae could secure them no morethan an honourable death. The bravest of the nationfell in the field of battle; the king of the Lombardscontemplated with delight the head of Cunimund,and his skull was fashioned into a cup to satiate thehatred of the conqueror, or, perhaps, to comply withthe savage custom of his country*. After this vic­tory, no farther obstacle could impede the progressof the confederates, and they faithfully executed theterms of their agreement t. The fair countries ofWalachia, Moldavia, Transylvania, and the parts ofHungary beyond the Danube, were occupied, with­out resistance, by a new colony of Scythians; andthe Dacian empire of the chagans subsisted withsplendour above two hundred and thirty years. Thenation of the Gepidae was dissolved; but in the dis­tribution of the captives, the slaves of the Avars wereless fortunate than the companions of the Lombards,whose generosity adopted a valiant foe, and whosefreedom was incompatible with cool and deliberatetyranny. One moiety of the spoil introduced intothe camp of Alboin more wealth than a Barbariancould readily compute. The fair Rosamond was per­suaded, or compelled, to acknowledge the rights ofher victorious lover; and the daughter of Cunimundappeared to forgive those crimes which might be im­puted to her own irresistible charms.Alboin The destruction of a mighty kingdom established undertakes the conquest the fame of Alboin. In the days of Charlemagne,A.DJ567. tne Bavarians, the Saxons, and the other tribes of the * It appears from Strabo, Pliny, and Ammianus Marcellinus, that the samepractice was common among the Scythian tribes (Muratori, Scriptores Rer. Italic.tom. i. p. 424). The scalpt of North America are likewise trophies of valour.The skull of Cunimund was preserved above two hundred years among the Lom­bards; and Paul himself was one of the guests to whom duke Ratchis exhibitedthis cup on a high festival (1. ii. c. 2ft). f Paul, 1. i. c. 27. Menander, in Excerpt. Legat. p. 110, 111.