OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 161 position. His declining the suggestion would probably leadto a breach; his accepting it would throw his most aristo­cratic and bravest officer iuto the hands of a man more thanuntrustworthy, who, as every one knew, played a doublegame with the Bomaus and with Jugurtha, and who seemedalmost to have contrived" the scheme for the purpose of ob­taining for himself provisional hostages from both sides inthe persons of Jugurtha and Sulla. But the wish to termi­nate the war outweighed every other consideration, andSulla agreed to undertake the perilous task which Mariussuggested to him. He boldly departed under the guidanceof Volux the son of king Bocchus, nor did his resolutionwaver even when his guide led him through the midst of Ju-gurtha's camp. He rejected the pusillanimous proposals offlight that came from his attendants, and marched, with theking's son at his side, uninjured through the enemy. Thedaring officer evinced the same decision in the discussionswith the sultan, and induced him at length seriously to makehis choice. Jugurtha was sacrificed. Under the pretext that all his sarremkrrequests were to be granted, he was allured by his own and execu-father-in-law into an ambush, his attendants were killed, tl°"°t''"'and he himself was taken prisoner. The great traitor thus gurfell by the treachery of his nearest relatives. Lucius Sullabrought the crafty and restless African in chains along withhis children to the Roman headquarters; and the war whichhad lasted for seven years was at an end. The victory wasprimarily associated with the name of Marius. King Ju­gurtha in royal robes and in chains, along with his two sons,preceded the triumphal chariot of the victor, when heentered Eome on the 1st of January 650: by his orders the 10i.son of the desert perished a few days afterwards in the sub­terranean city-prison, the old tullianum at the Capitol—the"bath of ice," as the African called it when he crossed thethreshold in order either to be strangled or to perish fromcold and hunger there. But it could not be denied, thatMarius had the least important share in the actual suc­cesses: the conquest of Numidia up to the edge of thedesert was the work of Metellus, the capture of Jugurthawas the work of Sulla, and between tha two Marius playeda part somewhat compromising the dignity of an ambitiousupstart. Marius reluctantly tolerated the assumption byhis predecessor of the name of conqueror of Numidia; he VOL. III. M r