OCR Output 020 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. fleet, and seventy thousand captives were transplanted"from Hyrcania to the isle of Cyprus. On the return of spring, Justinian descended into the fertile plainsof Assyria, the flames of war approached the re-A^nTi)* sidence of Nushirvan, the indignant monarch sunkinto the grave, and his last edict restrained his suc­cessors from exposing their person in a battle againstthe Romans. Yet the memory of this transient affrontwas lost in the glories of a long reign; and his for­midable enemies, after indulging their dream of con­quest, again solicited a short respite from the calami­ties of war*.Tyranny The throne of Chosroes Nushirvan was filled byhis son Hormouz, or Hormisdas, the eldest or the most fa-a.°r 579 voured of his sons. With the kingdoms of Persia—590. and In(Jia, he inherited the reputation and exampleof his father, the service, in every rank, of his wiseand valiant officers, and a general system of admini­stration, harmonized by time and political wisdom topromote the happiness of the prince and people. Butthe royal youth enjoyed a still more valuable blessing,the friendship of a sage who had presided over hiseducation, and who always preferred the honour tothe interest of his pupil, his interest to his inclina­tion. In a dispute with the Greek and Indian phi­losophers, Buzurgt had once maintained, that themost grievous misfortune of life is old age withoutthe remembrance of virtue; and our candour willpresume that the same principle compelled him,during three years, to direct the councils of the Per­sian empire. His zeal was rewarded by the gratitude • For these Persian wars and treaties, see Menander, in Excerpt. Legat.p. 113—125. Thijophanes Byzant. apud Photium, cod. lxiv. p. 77- 80, 81.Evagrius, 1. v. c. 7— 15. Theophylact, 1. iii. c. 9—16. Agathias, 1. iv. p. 140. ■f Buzurg Mihir may be considered, in his character and station, as the Senecaof the East; but his virtues, and perhaps his faults, are less known than timeof the Roman, who appears to have been much more loquacious. The Persiansage was the person who imported from India the game of chess and the fables ofPilpay.