OCR Output AW. 451 163.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. X. OF THE UNSUCCESSFUL EXPEDITION OF BACCHIDES, THEGENERAL OF DEMETRIUs's ARMV, AGAINST JUDEA J THESUBSEQUENT DEFEAT OF N1CANOR; THE DEATH OF AL-CIMUS, AND THE SUCCESSION OF JUDAS. ABOUT the same time Demetrius, theson of Seleucus, fled away from Rome,and took Tripoli, a city of Syria, and set thediadem on his own head. He also gatheredcertain mercenary soldiers together, and en­tered into his kingdom; and was joyfullyreceived by all, who delivered themselvesup to him. And when they had taken An-tiochus the king, and Lysias, they broughtthem to him alive: both of whom were im­mediately put to death by the command ofDemetrius,* when Antiochus had reignedtwo years. But there were now many ofthe wicked Jewish runagates, that cametogether to him; and with them Alcimus thehigh-priest, who accused the whole, nation,and particularly Judas and his brethren,and said, that they had slain all his friends;and that those in his kingdom that were ofhis party, and waited for his return, wereby them put to death; that these men hadejected them out of their own country; andcaused them to be sojourners in a foreignland; and they desired, that he would sendsome one of his own friends, and know fromhim what mischief Judas's party had done. At this Demetrius was very angry, andsent Bacchides, a friend of Antiochus Epi-phanes, fa good man, and one that had beenintrusted with all Mesopotamia; and gavehim an army, and committed Alcimus, thehigh-priest, to his care; and gave him chargeto slay Judas, and those that were with him.So Bacchides made haste, and went out ofAntioch, with his army; and when he wascome into Judea, he sent to Judas and hisbrethren, to discourse with him about a leagueof friendship and peace. For he had a mindto take him by treachery. But Judas did notgive credit to him: for he saw that he camewith so great an army, as men do not bring * 1 Mace. vii. 2, 3. t It is no way probable that Josephus would call Bac­chides, that bitter enemy of the Jews, as our presentcopies have it, av<W xflS0V> "a good man," or "kind andgentle:" (in which latter sense he uses the word xfIS°Ssoon afterward:) what the author of the first book of voL. I.—NOS. 37 & 38. when they come to make peace, but to makewar. However, some of the people acqui­esced in what Bacchides caused to be pro­claimed. And supposing they should undergono considerable harm from Alcimus, who wastheir countryman, they went over to them;and when they had received oaths from bothof them, that neither they themselves, northose of the same sentiments, should cometo any harm, they intrusted themselves withthem. But Bacchides troubled not himselfabout the oaths he had taken; but slewthreescore of them: although by not keepinghis faith with those that first went over, hedeterred all the rest, who had intentions togo over to him, from doing it. But as he wasgone out of Jerusalem, and was at the villagecalled Bethzetho, he sent out and caughtmany of the deserters, and some of the peo­ple also, and slew them all; and enjoinedall that lived in the country to submit to Al­cimus. So he left him there, with some partof the army; that he might have wherewithto keep the country in obedience; and re­turned to Antioch, to king Demetrius. But Alcimus was desirous to have the do­minion more firmly assured to him. And un­derstanding that if he could bring it aboutthat the multitude should be his friends, heshould govern with greater security, he spakekind words to them all, and discoursed toeach of them after an agreeable and pleasantmanner. By which means he quickly had agreat body of men, and an army about him:although the greater part of them were of thewicked and the deserters. With these, whomhe used as his servants and soldiers, he wentall over the country, and slew all that hecould find of Judas's party. But when Judassaw that Alcimus was already become great;and had destroyed many good and holy men,he also went all over the country, and destroy­ed those that were of the other party. WhenAlcimus saw that he was not able to opposeJudas, nor was equal to him in strength, heresolved to apply himself to king Demetriusfor his assistance. So he came to Antioch, Maccabees, whom Josephus here follows, instead of thatcharacter, says of him is this; that he was a great manin the kingdom, and zsigmru Gaifikii faithful to the king.Which was very probably Josephus's meaning also.Perhaps, therefore, he wrote wjov, faithful, for XflS0V>good or gentle. 4D