OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Ill vailed among the Magi; that the nobles were haughty,the courtiers servile, and the magistrates unjust; thatthe guilty sometimes escaped, and that the innocent wereoften oppressed. The disappointment of the philoso­phers, provoked them to overlook the real virtues of thePersians; and they were scandalized, more deeply per­haps than became their profession, with the plurality ofwives and concubines, the incestuous marriages, and thecustom of exposing dead bodies to the dogs and vultures,instead of hiding them in the earth, or consuming themwith fire. Their repentance was expressed by a preci­pitate return, and they loudly declared, that they hadrather die on the borders of the enjpire, than enjoy thewealth and favour of the barbarian. From this journey,however, they derived a benefit which reflects the purestlustre on the character of Chosroes. He required, thatthe seven sages, who had visited the court of Persia,should be exempted from the penal laws which Justinianenacted against his Pagan subjects; and this privilege,expressly stipulated in a treaty of peace, was guarded bythe vigilance of a powerful mediator/ Simplicius and ™e last ofhis companions ended their lives in peace and obscurity : Pher«.and as they left no disciples, they terminate the long listof Grecian philosophers, who may be justly praised, not­withstanding their defects, as the wisest and most vir­tuous of their contemporaries. The writings of Simpli­cius are now extant. His physical and metaphysicalcommentaries on Aristotle have passed away with thefashion of the times; but his moral interpretation ofEpictetus is preserved in the library of nations, as a clas­sic book, most excellently adapted to direct the will, topurify the heart, and confirm the understanding, by ajust confidence in the nature both of God and man. About the same time that Pythagoras first invented ne Ro.m,n J ^ consulship extinguish* r Agathias (lib. 2. p. 69—71.)relates tins cnrious story. Chosroes ascended the eil by Jus-throne in the year 531, and made his first peace with the Romans in the beginning of t■ nian' , (Asse 533, a date most compatible with his young fame and old age of Isidore. (Astemail, a, jj# 54].Bibliot. Orient, tom. 3. p. 401. Pajfi, tom. 2. p. 543.5i0.)