OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIEK. 473 was exercised in the name of their young sovereign, chap.Two rivals only remained to dispute the claims, and to XX1IJ,provoke the vengeance, of Stilicho. Within the limitsof Africa, Gildo, the Moor, maintained a proud anddangerous independence; and the minister of Con­stantinople asserted his equal reign over the emperor,and the empire, of the East. The impartiality which Stilicho affected, as the The failcommon guardian of the royal brothers, engaged him *f Rufinus,to regulate the equal division of the arms, the jewels, yj^gfifcand the magnificent wardrobe and furniture of thedeceased emperor. But the most important objectof the inheritance consisted of the numerous legions,cohorts, and squadrons of Romans, or Barbarians,whom the event of the civil war had united underthe standard of Theodosius. The various multitudesof Europe and Asia, exasperated by recent animosi­ties, were overawed by the authority of a single man;and the rigid discipline of Stilicho protected the landsof the citizen from the rapine of the licentious soldier *.Anxious, however, and impatient, to relieve Italyfrom the presence of this formidable host, which couldbe useful only on the frontiers of the empire, he list­ened to the just requisition of the minister of Arca-dius, declared his intention of re-conducting in per­son the troops of the East; and dexterously employedthe rumour of a Gothic tumult to conceal his pri­vate designs of ambition and revenge |- The guiltysoul of Rufinus was alarmed by the approach of awarrior and a rival, whose enmity he deserved; hecomputed, with increasing terror, the narrow space * Tantoque remoto Principe, mutatas orbis non sensit habenas.This high commendation (i. Cons. Stil. i. 149), may be justified by the fears ofthe dying emperor (de Bell. Gildon. 292—301); and the peace and good orderwhich were enjoyed after his death (i Cons. Stil. i. 150--1C8). f Stilicho's march, and the death of Rufinus, were described by Claudian (inRutin. I. ii. 101-453), Zosimus (1. v. p. 29fi, 297), Sozornen (1. viii. c. 1),Socrates (1. vi. c 1), Philostorgius, (1. xi. c. 3. with Godefroy, p. 141), and theChronicle of Marcellinus.