OCR Output 60 TOUCHSTONES. 42. OF GILDING SILVER. Silver is now almost the only metal which is gilt by means ofquicksilver, although it ought to be also employed in the gildingof copper. But the same kind of cunning, which is so very in­genious in every department of life, has discovered some cheapermaterial, as I have mentioned above.* 43. OF TOUCHSTONES FOR GOLD. In speaking of gold and silver it is necessary to take notice ofwhat is styled the touchstone, formerly found only in the riverTmolus, according to the account of Theophrastus, but now foundin many situations; some call it the Heraclian stone, others theLydian.3 They are of moderate size, not exceeding four inchesin length, and two in breadth. The side which has been exposedto the sun is thought to be better than that which has lain upon theearth. Those who are practised in the use of these stones, whenthey have rasped off a fragment of ore from the vein for the pur­pose of experiment, can immediately say how much gold, or sil­ver, or copper it contains, being able from their wonderful skill toascertain the quantity with great minuteness. 44. SPECIES OF SILVER AND TESTS. There are two different kinds of silver. A small portion of themetal in question being placed on heated iron bars, if it remainswhite it is considered pure; the next best kind becomes red;when it becomes black, it is very bad. But fraud is often prac­tised in this experiment. The bars are kept in the urine of men,and hence when the specimen is heated its colour is affected, and • Sec. 32. » The Basanitc of Kirwan, i. 307; the Lydian stone of Jameson, L 107;the Pierre de Lydie of Brochant, i. 286, the Lapis Lydius of Aikin, ii. 3,and Thomson, iii. 302. It is mentioned by Theophrastus, Opera, p. 397, 8;De Lap. sec. 78. Salmasius, in reference to the subject, accuses Pliny ofhaving fallen into a gross error in confounding the Heraclean with theLydian stone; Exer. Plin. p. 776.; it appears, however, that, in this in­stance, this learned critic has committed an oversight; for Theophrastusexpressly informs us, that the touchstone was called indifferently by eitherof these names; Op. p. 392; De Lap. sec. 10.