OCR Output 20* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II "That they had it in commission from Q. Fabius, the•• consul, to inform them, that he once carried peace• ' from the ^Equi to Rome, and that from Rome, he was"now carrying war to the jEqui, the same right-hand"being armed against them, which before he hadgiven them in token of peace. By whose perjuryand perfidious conduct, this reverse had happened,the gods were the witnesses now, and ere long wouldbe the avengers. For his own part, however, with­out descending to particular.-, he would even at thismoment, rather wish they would, by a voluntarysubmission, express a conviction of their error, thanoblige him to subject them to all the calamities ofwar. Were they only to repent, they should be re­ceived into the protection of that clemency, they"had formerly experienced: but, if they exulteS in"their perjury, they would do well to remember they"had the wrath of the gods, rather than the arms of"an enemy to contend with." So far was this embassy from influencing the /E<jui,that the deputies were in danger of being insulted, andan army was sent to the Algidus,* to oppose the pro­gress of the Romans. The moment advices of these transactions were trans­mitted to Rome, the other consul left the city, rousedrather by indignation, than any fear of danger. Thustwo consular armies approached the enemy, drawn upin form, determined to make an immediate attack. Butas it happened that the day was far spent, one of theenemy's advanced guard, cried out; " Romans, this is"not fighting, but an empty parade; vou draw up in"battalia, for the approach of night. More sun will"be necessary to render the action before us decisive."To-morrow, the moment light appears, return to the"field, and you shall have enough of fighting, I will"be bound for it." Stung with this reproachful commentary, the Romansoldiers were led back to the camp, to wait till nextmorning; and -the hours of the night seemed to passheavity on, which kept them from measuring swordswith the enemy. They refreshed themselves with vie- * A bill twelve miles from Rome,