OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 765 and renewed the attempt at lower points;I cJ»e loot of the Hundred Steps, for instance, on» wit, and at the bottom of the I.nrus Asyli on»ttir; on both whirh aides they again attemptedmat. The Palazzo de Coniervatori, thoughi ti» highest point of the hill, is above them Becker, as we hare shown, has adopted themrriy erroneous opinion that the "Capitolinaer» fares" belonged to the Capitol itself (noteif) tud that consequently the Vitellians wererauae it from the Viazztt del Campidoglio (note41. But the portiro from which they were driven■ was on the clivus, and consequently they couldE have reached the top of the hill, or piazza. Therwtwat that the temple must have been on theI. briarfat, because the Vitellians attempted tom it by mounting the Centum Gradus (Becker,rvae, p. 4:i). may be retorted by those whoI tli: the attack was directed against the Arx.i p-"?ra* spM of the Lncus Asyli cannot be indi-A ; hat from Livy's description of it, it was evi-t!y •orarwbrre on the descent of the hill ("locunisoar septus descendentibut inter duos lucos est,Ira a peril." i. 8). It is probable, as 1'rellerpan (PkiloL y. 99), tli.it the "aditus juxtan Asrli" was) on the NE. side of the hill near.not anrh of Sererus. The Clivus Asyli isturn, there was only one clivus on the Capitoline.IV lava only one more remark to make on thisacre. It is plain that the fire broke out nearLorss Aayli, and then spreading from house to*_ i i.-i t at last the front of the temple. ThisM from Tacitus' account of tho portico and the»• watch supported the Jattigium or pediment,rj-.bmg fire. The back-front of the Capito-'*rrpi« was plain, apparently a mere wull;LSonrahta (nr. 61) does not say a single wordt .:. thwogh be particularly describes the frontaatar a triple row of columns and the sides* laaa. But as we know that the temiletie aonth. such an accident could not have~W except it stood on the NE. height, or that a i£at. therefore, by substituting Caffarellithe triumphant remark with whichhie explanation of this passage: "ToaWatbrs, who would seek the temple of Jupiterr >'ghl ot" CnfartlU, the description of Ta-a at every respect inexplicable."a era next argument in favour of the W. xtuivex an equivocation. It is, "that thei waa built om that summit of the billbate tire name of Moris Tarpeius." Nowataiaraoaot — and as we have already esta-I r. w« need not repeat it here — that before■dtaaj of toe Capitol the it-hole hill was calledlira, iwe The passages cited by Becker in\j (Lie. L 55; Lhonys. iii. 69) mean nothingban tana ; indeed, the latter expressly states'I f'im j rcVrc SMS* fVaAcrro Tafnrfjios, vv» iireAiVff) Capitolinm gradually becamelwm bar the whole bill; bot who can believejaw ««f Tarpeia continued to be retained atsrr pnrtaon of it where the Capitoline temple■Jr. f The process was evidently as follows:-. -~rn bright, on which the temple waa built,tnt alone called Capitolium. Gradually itsgave name to the whole hill;pirtion. the most remote from thetbe primitive name of llupes Tar-> eat us in a mutilated fragment, — not however so mutilated but that the sense is plain—" Noluerunt fnnestnm locum [cum altera parte]Capitoli conjungi" (p. 343), where Mtiller remarks,"non multum ab Ursini supplemento disorderslicebit." Becker then proceeds to argue that the temple ofJuno Moneta was built on the site of the house ofM. Manlius Capitolinns, which was on the Arx(Liv. v. 47; Plut. Com. 36; Dion Cass. Fr. 31,&c); and we leam from Ovid (Fcut. i. 637) thatthere were steps leading from the temple of Concord,to that of Juno Moneta. Now as the former templewas situated under the height of Araceli, near thearch of Severus, this determines the question of thesite of Juno Moneta and the Arx. Ovid's words areas follows:—- "Candida, te niveo posuit lux pmxima temploQua fert sublimes alta Moneta gradus;Nunc bene prospicies Latiam, Concordia, tur-bam," &c. This is very obscure; but we do not see how it canbe inferred from this passage that there were stepsfrom one temple to the other. We should rathertake it to mean that the temple of Concord wasplaced close to that of Moneta, which latter waaapproached by a flight of lofty steps. Nor do wethink it very difficult to point out what these stepswere. The temple of Juno was on the Arx; thatis, according to our view, on the S\V. summit; andthe lofty steps were no other than the CentnmGradus for ascending the Rupes Tarpeia, as de­scribed by Tacitus in the passage we have just beendiscussing. Had there been another flight of stepsleading up to the top of the Capitoline hill, theVitellians would certainly have preferred them toclambering over the tops of houses. But it will beolijected that according to this view the temple ofConcord is placed upon the Arx, for which there isno authority, instead of on the forum or clivus,for which there is authority. Now this is exactlythe point at which we wish to arrive. There wereseveral temples of Concord, but only two of any re­nown, namely, that dedicated by Kurius Camillus,B. c. 367, and rcdedicated by Tiberius after hisGerman trinmph, which is the one of which Ovidspeaks; and another dedicated by the consul Opi-mius after the sedition and death of Gracchus. Ap-pian says that the latter temple was in the forum:tj Of fiov\i] Koi vtiiv 'Ouoyuias a&rbv iv o/yopf lrpoff-ira(i» iytipai (B.C. i. 26). But in ordinary lan­guage the clivus formed part of the forum; and itwould be impossible to point out any place in theforum, strictly so called, which it could have occupied.It is undoubtedly the Eame temple alluded to byVarro in the following passage: "Scnaculum supraGraecostasim ubi aedisConcordiae ct basilica Opimia"(/../,. v. p. 156, Mill!.): from which we may inferthat Opimius built at the same time a basilica,which adjoined the temple. Becker (ffandb. p.309) denied the existence of this basilica; but bythe time be published his Warnung he had grownwiser, and quoted in the Appendix (p. 53) the fol­lowing passage from Cicero (/). Sett. 67): " L. Opi­mius cujus monumentum celeberrimnm in foro, se-pulcruin desertissimum in littorc Dyrrachino estrelictum ;" maintaining, however, that this passagerelated to Opimius' temple of Concord. But I'rliclis(Horn. Top. p. ii6), after pointing out that the epi­thet celeberrimum, " very much frequented," suitedbetter with a basilica than with a temple, produced