OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 'character of a divine ambassador: a German chieftain was transformed into theLord's anointed; and this Jewish rite has been diffused and maintained by the su­perstition and vanity of modern Europe. The Franks were absolved from theirancient oath; but a dire anathema was thundered against them and their posterity,if they should dare to renew the same freedom of choice, or to elect a king, exceptin the holy and meritorious race of the Carlovingian princes. Without apprehend­ing the future danger, these princes gloried in their present security; the secretaryof Charlemagne affirms, that the French sceptre was transferred by the authorityof the popes;(l) and in their boldest enterprises, they insist, with confidence, onthis signal and successful act of temporal jurisdiction. II. In the change of manners and language, the patricians of Rome(2) were farremoved from the senate of Romulus, or the palace of Constantine, from the freenobles of the republic, or the fictitious parents of the emperor. After the reco­very of Italy and Africa by the arms of Justinian, the importance and danger ofthose remote provinces required the presence of a supreme magistrate; he wasindifferently styled the exarch or the patrician; and these governors of Ravenna,who fill their places in the chronology of princes, extended their jurisdiction overthe Roman city. Since the revolt ot Italy and the loss of the exarchate, the dis­tress of the Romans had exacted some sacrifice of their independence. Yet, evenin this act, they exercised the right of disposing of themselves; and the decreesof the senate and people successively invested Charles Martel and his posteritywith the honours of patrician of Rome. The leaders of a powerful nation wouldhave disdained a servile title and subordinate office; but the reign of the Greekemperors was suspended; and, in the vacancy of the empire, they derived a moreglorious commission from the pope and the republic. The Roman ambassadorspresented these patricians with the keys of the shrine of St. Peter, as a pledgeand symbol of sovereignty; with a holy banner, which it was their right andduty to unfurl in the detence of the church and city. (3) In the time of CharlesMartel and of Pepin, the interposition of the Lombard kingdom covered the free­dom, while it threatened the safety, of Rome; and the patriciate represented onlythe title, the service, the alliance, of these distant protectors. The power andpolicy of Charlemagne annihilated an enemy, and imposed a master. In his firstvisit to the capital, he was received with all the honours which had formerly beenpaid to the exarch, the representative of the emperor: and these honours obtainedsome new decorations from'the joy and gratitude of Pope Hadrian I. (4) No soonerwas he informed of the sudden approach of the monarch, than he despatched themagistrates and nobles of Rome to meet him, with the banner about thirty milesfrom the city. At the distance of one mile, the Flaminian way was lined with theschools, or national communities, of Greeks, Lombards, Saxons, &c.: the Romanyouth were under arms; and the children of a more tender age, with palms andolive branches in their hands, chanted the praises of their great deliverer. At theaspect of the holy crosses, and ensigns of the saints, he dismounted from his horse,led the procession of his nobles to the Vatican, and, as he ascended the stairs, de­voutly kissed each step of the threshold of the apostles. In the portico, Hadrianexpected him at the head of his clergy: they embraced, as friends and equals;but in their march to the altar, the king or patrician assumed the right hand of thepope. Nor was the Frank content with these vain and empty demonstrations ofrespect. In the twenty-six years that elapsed, between the conquest of Lombar-dy and his imperial coronation, Rome, which had been delivered by the sword, borrowed from the Latins in the last age of the empire. Constantine Manasses mentions that of Charlemagneas a foreign, Jewish, incomprehensible ceremony. See Seidell's Tilles of Honour, in his Works, vol. iii. part i.p. 234—249. (0 See Eginhard, in Vita Caroli Magni, c. 1. p. S, See. c. 3. p. 24. Cliildeiic was deposed—^ujjk, the Carlo­vingian* were established—avctoritate, Pontifices Komani, Launoy, &c, pretend that these strong words aresusceptible of a very soft interpretation. Be it so; yet £ginhard understood the world, the court, and the La­tin language. (2) For the title and powers of patrician of Home, see Ducange, (Glo.s. Latin, torn. v. p. 149—151.) Pagi.(Critiea, A. I). 740. no. S—11.) Muratori, (Annali d'ltalia, torn. vi. p. 30H—329.) and St. Marc. (Abrege Chro-nologique d'ltalie, torn. i. p. 379—382.) Of these the Franciscan Pagi is the most disposed to make the patriician a l-eutenant of the church, rather than of the empire. (3) The papal advocates can soften the symbolic meaning of the banner and the keys; hut the style of adregnwn ditnisimus, or direximus, (Codex Carolin. epist. i. torn. iii. pavsii. p. 76.) seems to allow of no pallia-lion or escape. In the MS. of the Vienna library, they read, instead of regnwn^ rogum, prayer or request; (seeDucange) and the royally of Charles Martel is subverted by this important correction. (Catalini, in his Criti­cal Prefaces Annali d'llalia, torn. xvii. p. 95—99.) . (4) In the authentic narrative of this reception, the Liher Pontificalis observes—obviam illi ejus sanctiras di-ngens venerabiles crnces, id est stgna; sicut, mos est ad exarchum, ant patiicium suscipiendum, cum cum fn-ighenu honore suscipi ftcit. (font, iii, pais i. p. I8J0