OCR Output 138 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. then the command of a garrison somewhere near Methone.He was sensible of the danger it was in, and set forwards withone hundred heavy-armed to its relief. The Athenian armywas then scattered about the country, and their attention di­rected only to the walls ; by which means, making a quickmarch through the midst of their quarters, he threw himselfinto Methone, and, with the loss of but a few who were inter­cepted in the passage, effectually secured the town. For thisbold exploit, he was the first man of all who signalized them­selves in this war, that received the public commendation atSparta. Upon this the Athenians re-embarked and sailedaway, and coming up to Pheia, a town of Elis, they ravagedthe country for two days together. A body of picked men ofthe lower Elis, with some other Eleans, that were got togetherfrom the adjacent country, endeavoured to stop their devas­tations, but coming to a skirmish, were defeated by them.But a storm arising, and their ships being exposed to dangeron the open coast, they went immediately on board, and sail­ing round the cape of Icthys, got into the harbour of Pheia.The Messenians in the mean time, and'some others who hadnot been able to gain their ships, had marched over-land andgot possession of the place. Soon after, the ships, being nowcome about, stood into the harbour, took them on board, andquitting the place put out again to sea. By this time a greatarmy of Eleans was drawn together to succour it, but theAthenians were sailed away to other parts of the coast, wherethey carried on their depredations. About the same time, the Athenians had sent a fleet ofthirty sail to infes}; the coast about Locris, and at the sametime to guard Euboea. This fleet was commanded by Cleo- qualities which did honour to the Spartans ; and was free from all theblemishes, which their peculiarity of education was apt to throw upon them,such as haughtiness of carriage, ferocity of temper, and an arrogance whichstudied no deference or condescension to others. He serves his countrymuch by his valour and military conduct, and more by his gentle, humane,and engaging behaviour. In a word, the distinguishing excellencies both ofthe Spartan and Athenian characters seem to have been united in thisBrasidas.