OCR Output 470 TITUS LIVIUS' , BooicV. his commission from the army. Having then got thesenate's decree, ordaining, ' That Camillas should, by'an act of the comitia assembled by curia, be recalled'from banishment; and by authority of the people be'immediately appointed dictator, at the same time, thatc the arrny should have the general they desired.' Re­turning the same way, he posted to Veii with the news;whence the commissioners were sent Camillas at Ardea,who conducted him to Veii: or rather an act repealinghis banishment, was passed in the comitia assembled bycuria-, and he declared dictator in his absence; for it »more likely that he did not move from Ardea, till hehad certain advices of the act passed by the senate; be­cause he qould not change the place of bis retreat, with­out the voices of the people, nor take the auspices regu­larly in the army, in order to their entering upon action,till he was appointed dictator. CHAP. XLVII. An attempt of the Gattls frustrated by the gallantry of Manlius. D. rURING these transactions at Veii, the citadel andcapitol of Rome were in extreme danger. The Gauls,whether they had observed the impressions of a man'sfeet, in that place where the messenger from Veii badclimbed the rock, or of themselves had discovered thatit wa& accessibte by the rock Carmemalis, it is certain,that one night, when it was pretty clear, ihey first sent*man before to examine the way, without his arms, whichthey afterwards handed up to him; and where it wassteep, they supported, lifted and lent each other a band,as the difficuty of the place required, till they had reach­ed the top. This they did with so much silence, thatneither the centinels, nor even the dogs, animals thatare apt to stir at the least noise in the night-time, werein the least alarmed. But they did not escape unnoticedby the geese, which being sacred to Juno, the Romans,in all their scarcity of provisions, had preserved alive.This saved the capitol. For by their gagling and beat­ing their wmgs, they raised M. Manlius, a great soldier,who had been consul three years before; he snatching