OCR Output IS4 LIGURIA. LIGURIA. Iberia, thus pointing to a still wider extension oftheir power (Thuc vi. 2.) But while the Ligu­rian settlements to the W. of the Rhone are moreobscure and uncertain, the tribes thai extended fromthat river to the Maritime Alps and the confines ofItaly—the Salyes, Oxybii, and Deciates—are as­signed on good authority to the Ligurian race.(Strah. iv. pp. 202, 203; Pol. xxxiii. 7, 8.) On theireastern frontier, aUo, the Ligurian* were at one timemore widely spread than the limits above described.Polyhius tells ua that in his time they occupied thewa-coast as far as Pi.sae, which was the tir»t city ofEtruria: and in the interior they held the mountaindistricts as far as the confines of the Arretines. (Pol.ii. 16.) In the narrative of their wars with Romein the 2nd century B.C., as given in Livy, we findthem extending to the same limits: and Lycophronrepresents them at a much earlier period as stretch­ing far down the coast of Ktruria. before the arrivalof the Tyrrhenians, who wrested from them by forceof .inns the site of Pisae and other cities. (Lycophr.AUx, 1356.) The population of Corsica alsois ascribed by Seneca, and probably with goodreason, to a Ligurian stock. [Corsica.] On theN. of the Apennines, in like manner, it is probablethat the Ligurians were f:ir more widely spread,before the settlement of the Gauls, who occupied thefertile plains and drove them hack into the moun­tains. Thus the Laevi and Libici, who occupied thebanks of the Ticinus, appo:ir to have been of Ligurianrace (Plin. iii. 17. s, 21; Liv. v. .'35): the Taurit.i,who certainly dwelt on both banks of the Patlns,were unquestionably a Ligurian tribe; and therefieeina much reason to assign the same origin to theSalassi alio. In regard to the national affinities or origin of theLigurians themselves, we are almost wholly in thedark. We know only that they were not eitherllK-rians or Gauls. Strabo tells us distinctly thatthey were of a different race from the Gauls or Celtswho inhabited the rest of the Alps, though they re­sembled them in their mode of life. (Strab. ii. p.128.) And the same thing is implied in the markeddistinction uniformly observed by Livy and otherHuman writers between the Gaulish and Liguriantribes, notwithstanding their close geographicalproximity, and their frequent alliance in war. Dio-nysius says that the origin and descent of theLigurians was wholly unknown, and Cato aptiears tohave arqaieaed in a similar conclusion. (Dionys.i. 10; Cato. ap. Srrv. ad Am. xi. 715.) But ailancient authors appear to have agreed in regardingthem as one of the most ancient nations of Italy;and on this account Philistus represented the Siculias a Liiiurian tribe, while other ant born assigned thesame origin to the Aborigines of Latium. (Dionys.I. 10. 22.) Several modern writers have maintainedthe Celtic origin or affinity of the Ligurians.(Cluver. Ital. pp. 49 — 51; Grotefend. AU.-ItalUn,voL ii. pp. 5 — 7.) But the authority of Straboseems decisive against any close connection betweenthe two races: and it is impossible, in the absence ofnil remains of their language, to form even a reason­able conjecture as to their more remote affinities. Afact mentioned by Plutarch (J/ar. 19). according towhom the Ligurians in the army of Marius calledthemselves in their own language Ambrones, thoughcurious, is much too isolated and uncertain to be re­ceived as reasonable proof of a common origin withthe Gauls of that name. The name of the Ligurians appears to hare been obscurely known to the Greeks from a very earlyperiod, for even Hesied noticed them, in conjunctionwith the Scythians and Aethiopians,—evidently uone of the most distant nations of the then kiwwnworld. (Hesiod. ap. Strab. vii. p. 300.) Bat fromthe time of the foundation of the flourishing Grtrkcolony of Massilia, which speedily extended ivA onlyits commerce but its colonies along the shores ofLiguria, as well as those of Iberia, the name of t!*Ligurians must have become familiar to the Greeksand was, as we have seen, well known to Hecaur-..and Aeschylus. The Ligurians seem also from anearly period to have been ready to engage as mer­cenary troops in the service of more civilised nation*;and we find Ligurian auxiliaries already mentionedin the great army of the Carthaginian generalHamilcar, in n.c 480. (Herod, vii. 165; Diod.xi. 1.) The Greek despots in Sicily continued torecruit their mercenary forces from the same quarteras late as the time of Agathocles. (Diod. xxi. :\)The Greeks of Massilia founded colonies along thecoast of Liguria as far as Nicaea and the Port-^sHerculis Monoeti, but evidently never establishedtheir power far inland, and the mountain tribes ofthe Ligurians were left in the enjoyment of nadis-turl>ed independence. It was not till the year 237 B. c. that the Ligu­rians, for the first time, came into contact with thearms of Home ; and P. Lentulns Candinua, one of theconsuls of the following year, was the first who cele­brated a triumph over them. (Eutrop. iii. 2; Liv.Epit. xx.: Fast, Capit.) But the successes of th«Romans at this period were evidently very partialand incomplete, and though we find one of this con­suls for several years in succession sent against il>eLigurians), and the name of that people appears threetimes in the triumphal Fasti (b. c. 233—223). itis evident that nothing more was accomplished thanto prevent them from keeping the field and compelthem to take refuge in the mountains (Zonar. viiL18, 19). The Ligurian tribes with whom tieRomans were at this time engaged in hostilitieswere exclusively those on the X. of the Apennines,who made common cause with the neighbouringGaulish tribes of the Boians and Insubrian*. The**petty hostilities were for a time interrupted by tltemore important contest of the Second Punic War.During that struggle the Ligurians openly aidedwith the Carthaginian.*: they sent support to Han­nibal, and furnished an important contingent to Us*army with which Hasdruhal fought at the Metauru*.Again, before the close of the war, when Mac*landed in their territory, and made it the base of hUoperations against Cisalpine Gaul, the Librariansespoused his cause with zeal, and jvepared to sup-.]«>rt him with their whole forces (Liv. xxii 33,xxvii. 47, xxviii. 46, xxix. 5). After the untimelyfate of Mago, and the close of the war, the Romanswere in no haste to punish the Ligurians and Gaukfor their defection, but those nations were the firstto take up arms, and, at the instigation of the Car­thaginian Hamilcar, broke out into open hostilities,(n.c 200), and attacked the Roman colonies) ofPkueutia and Cremona. (Liv. xxxL 10.) From this time commenced the long series of wanbetween the Romans and Ligurians, which continuedwith little intermission for above eighty years. It wouldbe impossible to give here any detailed accuunt ufthese lung protracted, but desultory hostilities; in­deed we ]*w>es*, in reality, rt-ry little information reo-cerning them. So long aa the books of Livy are pre-