OCR Output 2 If, LUI'IAE. LUNA. Ac. But it was speedily adopted for statuary pur­poses also, for which it was esteemed a finer mate­rial even than tiie Parian, (l'lin. xxxvi. 5. s. 4,C. 5. 7; Strab. v. p. 222 ; Sii. Ital. viii. 4SU ; Kutil./. e.; Stat. Stiv. iv. 2. 29, 4. 23.) Tho buildingsof Luna itself, ami even its walls, are said to havebt'en constructed wholly of it, whence Hutilius callsthcin *' camlcutia inoeni.i:" ami Cyriacus, an anti­quarian of the 15th century, who visited the ruinsof Luna, attests the same fact. The period of the final decay of Luna is uncertain.It was taken and plundered by the Normans in 857,hut was probably not destroyed ; and Dante, writingafter 1300, speaks of Luni as a city that had sunkgradually into complete decay (Par. xvi. 73); whichwas doubtless accelerated by the malaria, from whichthe neighbourhood now suffers severely. When itwas visited by Cyriacus of Ancona, the ruins werestill extensive anil in good preservation; but littlenuw remains. Vestiges of an amphitheatre, of asemi-circular building which may have been a theatre,of a circus, and piscina, as well as fragments ofcolumns, pedestals, &c, are still however visible.All these remains are certainly of Human date, andno vestiges of Etruscan antiquity have been found onthe spot. The ruins, which are obviously those ofa small town, as it is called by Strabo, are situatedubotit 4 in. S. of Struma, aid little more than amile from the sea. (Dennis's Etiitria, vol. ii. pp.78—84; Targioni-Tazzetti, Viaf/yia in Totcana,ml. x. pp. 403 —466; Promis, Memorie delta CUladi Lima, 4to. Turin, 1838.) Far more celebrated in ancient times than Lunaitself was its port, or rather the magnificent gulf thatwas known by that name (l'mms Li.nak, Liv., l'lin.,&c.; JfA^nis Aujife, Strab.), now called the GulfofSjxzia. Thus is well described by Strabo as oneof the largest and finest harbours in the world,containing within itself many minor ports, and sur­rounded by high mountains, with deep water close into shore. (Strab. v. p. 222; Sil. Ital. viii. 482.) Headds, that it was well adapted for a people that hadso long iiossessed the dominion of the sea.—a remarkthat must refer to the Etruscans or Tyrrhenians ingeneral, as we have no allusion to any naval supre­macy of Luna in particular. The great advantagesof this port, which is so spacious as to be capable ofcontaining all the navies of Europe, seem to have-early attracted the attention of the Homans ; andlong tefu.e the subjection of the mountain tribes ofLiguria was completed, they were accustomed tomake the Lunae Port us the station or rendacoiu oftheir Beets which were destined either for Spain orSardinia. (Liv. xxxiv. 8, xxxix. 21, 32.) It musthave been on one of these occasions (probably incompany with 1L Cato) that it was visited by i'.n-nius, who was much struck with it, and celebrated itin the opening of his Annals (Ennius, op. Peri. Hat.vi. 9.) At a later period it seems to bare been re­sorted to also for it* mild and delightful climate.(Pers. Lc.) No doubt can exist that the port ofLuna is identical with the modem Gulf if Spexia:but it is certainly curious that it should have derivedthat name from the town or city of Luna, whichwas situated on the left bank of the Magra, at leastfive mile* from the gulf, and separated from it. Dot ionly by tho river Magra, but by a considerable jrange of rocky hills, which divide the Gulf of Spexiafrom the valley of the Magra, so that the gulf is noteven within sight of Luna itself. It is this range ofhills which at their cxtre.uily form a prwuwutory, I called by Ptolemy, Lunao I'romontorium (X»A.^rwvOKpov, Ptol. iii. 1. § 4), now the 1'untn iiinxca.It is true that Stralw places Luna on the right b»nkof the Mncra ; but this is a mere mistake, ukucertainly speaking of the Human town of Luna: itis possible that the Etruscan city of that name maynot have occupied the same site with the l*uiiancolony, but may have been situated on the nehtbank of the Macra, but even then it would banbeen at some distance from the port. lloUtrniaaand some other writers have endeavoured to pr^vrthat the port of Luna was situated at the immLh ofthe Macra ; and it is probable that the town mayhave had a small port or landing-place at ilia:t»oint ; but the celebrated Port of Lima, describedby Strabo and extolled by Ennius, can certainly beno other than the Gulf <f Sputa. The Gulf of Spezin is about 7 miles in depth by3 in breadth: it contains within itself (as justly un­served by Strabo) several minor ports, two of whichare noticed by Ptolemy under the names of 1'oKTVaVeneris ('A^poof-rnj Aijcije), still called Porta Ve­ntre, and situated near the western extremity of thegulf; and PoRTi'8 Emcis ('Eoixni nAioi). iw»Lerici, on the E. shore of the gulf. The formername is found also in the Maritime Itinerary. (1'luLiii. 1. § 3; Itin. Marit. ]>. 502.) [E. H. B.] LUNAE MONIES (2«Ai}k7ij boot Ai'eVowuu,Ptol. iv. 8. §§ 3, 6), from which mountains, and fruiuthe lakes formed by their melting snows, Plolemyderives the sources of the Nile. Their [uoiiuais unknown, and if they liave any real existeis*,they must be placed S. of the Equator. [W. B. !>.] LUNAE PORTUS. [Li.ha.] LUNAE PROMONTO'KIl'M (2tA«r»i iftattpor, Ptol. ii. 5. § 4), a headland on the W. coastof Lusitania, placed by Ptolemy 10 minutes N. Uthe mouth of the Tagus, and therefore corresis'&Uto the C. da Jioca, near Cititnt, where Horudiuifound ruins of what he took for a temple of the Sioand Moon, with inscriptions (Anti/j. Luxit. p. *,2).Others, however, identify it with the more nnrttierQC. Carcoeiro; and, in fact, the accounts of the head­lands on this coast are given in a confused mannerby the ancient writers. [P.N] LUNA'HIl'M PKOMONTO'RIUM (A.t»a*awixpov, Ptol. ii. 6. § 19: C. Turdtra, NE. of Bar­celona), a headland on the coast of the Baetoh, inllispaiiia Tarraconensis, formed by vuo of the .">L-spurs of the Pyrenees. [P. S.] LU'NtiONES. [Asti-res.] LUNNA, in (iallia, was on a road from Lug-dimum (Lyon) to Augustodunum (Avian), lbefirst station after Lugdunum is Asa Paulini, 15 M. P.from Lugdunura, and theu Lunna 15 M. P. frunAsa Paulini, according to the Antouiue Itin. [AaAI'm uni.] In the Table it is 24 M. P. from Lug-iliiuuin to Ludnam, as the name is written in theTable, and Asa Paulini is omitted. Luuna andLudnam arc probably the same place; and tlie site iauncertain. [Ii. L.J LU'PIA. [Luppia.] LU'PIAE (Aoirriai, Strab,; Aoinrio, Pans.: Aev**-rlai, Ptol.: Kih. Lupiensis; L*cce), an an« irnt cityof the Salentines, in lite Human province of Calabcia,situated oa the high road from brunduaium to Hy-druntum, and just about 25 M.P. distant from eachof these cities (/fin. AhL p. 1I8> It was about amiles from the sea, whence Strabo correctly issscnbasit as situated, together with Kbudiae, in the uilrnarof Calabria (Strab. v. p. 382), though both 1'kuj ana