OCR Output 660 rOITLONH'M. frequented, and a town had grown up around it atthe loot of the hill. (Strab. V. p. 233.) Its nameis Mill mentioned as an existing town by all theother geographers, and Ptolemy especially not iresthe city as well as promontory of Populoniom (Mel.ii. 4. § 9; Plin. iii. 5. s, 8; Ptol. iii. 1. § 4); hutthis is the last evidence of its existence; and beforethe close of the Western Empire it had fallen intocomplete decay. It is described by Rutilius at thebeginning of the fit'th century as entirely desolate,nothing remaining bnt fragments of its massivewalls and the fallen ruins of other edifices. Gregorythe Great also describes it towards the close of thesixth century as in a state of complete decay, thoughretaining an episcopal see; but at a later period ofthe middle ages a feudal castle was erected on thesite, which, with the few adjacent houses, still bearsthe name of Popuhmin, and is a conspicuous objectfrom a distance. (Until, /tin. i. 401—414; Gregor.Ep. ap. Cluver. Itrii. p. 514.) The only Etruscan remains now existing atPopuloniuin (with the exception of a few tombs ofno interest) are those of the ancient walls, whichmay be traced in fragments all round the brow ofthe hill, throughout the entire circuit of the city.This did not exceed a mile and a half in circum­ference; it was of an irregular form, adapted to therequirements of the ground. The walls are con­structed of rude masses of stone, arranged, like thoseof VolUrra, in horizontal layers, but with littleregularity; they are not, however, nearly so giganticin character as those of I'vltrrra, Fiesnlr, or Cor-tona. Within the circuit of the walls are to lie seensome vaulted chambers, six in a row (which havebeen erroneously called an amphitheatre) a mosaicpavement, and some reservoirs of water, all unques­tionably ofBoman date. (Dennis's Etrur'm, vol. ii.p. 236—238.) On the highest point of the hill, in the days ofRutilius, stood a lonely watch-tower, serving at thesame time as a b<aeon for ships. (RutiL /tin. i.407.) It was from this point that, according toStniho, the view comprised not only Corsica (whichis visible from many points of the mainland), butSardinia also. (Strab. i. c\) But this last as­sertion, though it has been repeated by manywriters, is certainly erroneous, as, even if the dis­tance were not too great, the nearer mountains ofElba would effectually conceal those of Sardiniafrom the view. (Dennis, vol. ii. p. 230.) We learn from the Tabula that there were hotsprings in the territory of Populonium, which hadgiven rise to a bathing-place called the AQUA!PoruLuNiAE {Tab. Petti.'). These were evidentlythe same now known as Lt Cah?>uu?% at the foot ofCampiffUa, about f» miles from Populonium, whichhave been identified by some writers with the*' aquaecalidae ad Vetulonios" mentioned by Pliny (ii. 10.s. 106); but there is no authority for placing V'etu-lonia in this neighbourhood. (Dennis, vol. ii. p.225.) [VlCTULONIA.] Populonium was the only city of Etruria whichhad a silver coinage of its own, of a very peculiarstyle, the reverse being generally quits plain, with­out type or legend, and not incuse or indented, as onthe earliest Greek coins. The ordinary type is aGorgon's head or mask, similar to that on manyEtruscan monuments. The copper coins give theEtruscan name of the city "l'upluna" at full —mTlATNA. It is not improbable (as suggested byMUlingen) that the Populoniazu derived the art of coinage from the Phocsicertainly no ground forPhocaean colony nt PotjVumwm. fie I'Anc. IttVet. A need. pp. 10—ll PORC1FERA (Pairflowing | in to the sea aThe name is written Pithe only one of the gebut in a curious inscrijvariously written roR[Genua.] PORDOSELE'NE ((T€\t7i/itt7s), the chief osmall islands lying betAsia. It contained a blax. p. 36, Hudson; Sts.v.). Strabo says (/.avoid the dirty aUuakcalled it Poroseleue (form employed by Ptol31. s. 38), and Aefiailater time the name \under which form thesee. (Hierocl. p. GSG; PORINA& [PhbPOROSELTNE. |PoRPHY'REoX (1 aVlOf, Uofxpuptwyirristioned by Scylax (p. 4and Sidon, and niarke-(where it is written Paas 8 Roman miles N. Iit a village upon thelf>4, Bonn.) It is m<from whose narrative| neighbourhood of Platait seems to be correctlFtbMf, where Pocockehe saw some broken ]and ru'ms on each sidethe side of the mount,there are extensive ex(belonging to an ancieigarded Haifa as thithere is no authoritystood in the bay of Vliof the Virgin at Porv. 9, p. 328); and itportanee to be made ipelitan of Tyre. (Rovol. iii. p. 432.)PO'RPHYRIS. [>