OCR Output CHAP. U. ROMAN HISTORY. 369 * of the Roman army, but by the shouts and cries whichhe heard, he judged, that the action continued tillnight. Considering the enemy's numbers, he did potbelieve it was possible to force a passage to the risingground which he had seized. That he knew not wherethe army was, but he had reason to imagine, for thepreservation of the army, the consul had retired to someplace of greater safety than his, own camp, as he him­self, in a case of necessity, had secured himself and fol­lowers, by the natural strength of the ground he hadtaken. That it was his own opinion,'the affairs of theVolsci were in no better condition than, those of theRomans; and that the darkness had concealed fromboth parties, their own situation, and that of eachother.' He was then, at his request, that they woulddetain him no longer, as he was quite exhausted withthe fatigue of his march, and the pain of his wounds,dismissed with the applauses of all the people, for hismoderation, still more than for his valour and good con­duct. This scene was scarcely over, when the consul ap­peared at the temple of Quies, in the Lavinian way.Thither horses and carriages and other conveyances weresent from the city, to take up the soldiers, quite spentwith the fatigue of the battle, and travelling all night.A little after, the consul made his entry into the city,and was not at greater pains to clear himself, with re­spect to the late miscarriage, than to give Tempanius thepraises due to his merit.; Whilst the state was afflicted, on account of their latedisaster, and highly dissatified with their generals, M.Posthumius, who had been one of the military tribunes,with consular power, that commanded at Veil, was im­peached before, the people, and fined 16,000 asses ofbrass.* Titus Quinciius, his colleague,. laid the wholeblame of that miscarriage upon Posihumius, who wasalready condemned; and out of regard to his great ser-vjces agai.ist the Volsci, when consul, under the dicta­tor Posthumius Tubertus; and at Fidense, in quality oflieutenant-general to Mamercus ^Emilius, another dicta- * .£32:5:10.