OCR Output 244 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. death ofLupus There he attacked the other Roman corps under Lupusunexpectedly during the crossing, and partly cut it down,90. partly drove it into the river (11th June 664). The consulDefeat and in person and 8000 of his troops fell. It could scarcely becalled a compensation, that Marius, becoming at lengthaware of Scato's departure, had crossed the river and notwithout loss to the enemy occupied their camp. Yet thispassage of the river, and a victory at the same time obtainedover the Paelignians by the general Servius Sulpicius, com­pelled the Marsians to draw their line of defence somewhatback, and Marius, who by decree of the senate succeededLupus as commander-in-chief, at least prevented the enemyfrom gaining further successes. But, when Quintus Caepiowas soon afterwards associated in the command with equalpowers, not so much on account of a conflict which he hadsuccessfully sustained, as because he had recommended him­self to the equites then leading the politics of Rome by hisvehement opposition to Drusus, he allowed himself to be luredinto an ambush by Silo on the pretext that the latter wishedto betray to him his army, and was cut to pieces with a greatpart of his force by the Marsians and Vestinians. Marius,after Caepio's fall once more sole commander-in-chief, throughhis obstinate resistance prevented his antagonist from profit­ing by the advantages which he had gained, and graduallypenetrated far into the Marsian territory. He long refusedbattle; when he at length gave it, he vanquished his im­petuous opponent, who left on the battle-field among otherdead Herius Asinius the chieftain of the Marruciui. In asecond engagement the army of Marius and the corps ofSulla which belonged to the army of the south co-operatedto inflict on the Marsians a still more considerable defeat,which cost them 6000 men; but the glory of the day re­mained with the younger officer, for, while Marius had givenand gained the battle, Sulla had intercepted the retreat ofthe fugitives and destroyed them. While the conflict was proceeding thus warmly and withvarying success by the Fucine lake, the Picenian corps underStrabo had also fought with alternations of fortune. Theinsurgent chiefs, Gaius Judacilius from Asculum, PubliusVettius Scato, and Titus Lafrenius had assailed it with theirunited forces, defeated it, and compelled it to throw itselfinto Firmum, where Lafrenius kept Strabo besieged, whileJudacilius moved into Apulia and induced Canusium, Venu- Pireniun