OCR Output THESSALIA. 11G9 THESSALIA. 'the *4dien to take the command. So greatlym Alexander »trengthened in his power by tinsklon that all tbe Thessalian cities submittal tom, ind the influence of Thebes in Thessaly wns furtone destroyed. Subsequently a second expeditiona tent into Tbessaly under the command ofToiwYidas, who compelled the tyrant to releasei^Jis and Ismenias, but without restoring Thebes•ht commanding position which she had formerlyUmTbewUy. (Diod. xv. 71—75; Plot Felnp.—29; Cornel. Kep. Ptlop. 5; Paus. ix. 15. § 1.)i» nrcttnued oppressions of Alexander of Pheraemen intolerable that the Thessalian cities onceit implied to Thebes for assistance. Accordinglylie. .164 Pelopidas was again sent into Thessalyfiw hetil of a Theban army. In the first engage -st I'elopidas was slain, but Alexander was de­led. (Diod. xt. 80, 81; Plut. Ptlop. 31, 32;ml Nop. Ptlop. 5 ; respecting the different expe-*m uf IM-ipiiLas into Tbessaly, as to which thereiwrepancie* in the accounts, see Grote, Hut. ofmot, vol x. p. 361, note, p. 391, note.) The:h of iM»pida«, however, proved almost fatal touairr. Burning to revenge bis loss, the The- ■ teat a powerful army into Thessaly, whichjrlloi him to renounce his supremacy in Thessaly,.«:-Sne himself to Pherae, and to submit to allfananda of Thebes. (Plut, Pelop. 35.) ift#* the death of Epaminondas at the battle ofithwa (b. c 36*2) the supremacy of Thebes in■walv was weakened, and Alexander of Pherae>*rml much of his power, which he continued totm with bis accustomed cruelty and ferocityuis aaau*ination in b. c. 359 by his wife ThebeIwr brothers. One of there brothers, Tisiphonus,Tm\n\ to tbe supreme power, under tbe directiontirtw; but his reign lasted only a short time, andijjt Mlowed in the government by Lycophnm,i*r brother. (Xen. IltlL vi. 4. § 37; Diod. 14: Pint. Ptlop. 35.) Meanwhile Philip, whounaided tbe throne of Macedon in B.C. 3G9,Urn steadily extending his dominions and his'Ur; and the Aleuodae of Larissa now had re-to him in preference to Thebes. Accordingly>a marched into Tbessaly in n. c. 353. Lyco-•i unable to resist him, invoked the aid of.ujriiiu and tbe Phocians; and Philip, after af ttniggle was driven out of Thessaly. (Diodor. vj.) In the following year Philip returned■<&-aIy, and gained a signal victory overuutiraa and Lycophron. Onomarchus was ■-\ the battle; and when Philip followed up c!<tv by laying siege to Pherae, Lycophronndered tbe city to him, upon being allowedare to PbocU with bis mercenaries. (Diodor.37.) Thus ended the powerful dynasty of the'i vf Pherae. Philip established a popularumeot at Pherae (Diod. xvi. 38), and gave=al independence to the Thecal tan cities. But ■ tame time he garrisoned Magnesia and the4 i'agatae with his troops, and kept steadily intii© subjugation of the whole country. Ani< trade in b.c 344 to restore the dynasty of:v rants at Pherae gave him an opportunity ofing hie designs into effect. Not only did he■t. Pherae with his own troops, but he revived division of th« country into four tetrarchjesand placed at the bead of each some; t-bttU of the Alcuadae, who were entirely de-to oil interests. The result of this arrange-«u the entire subjection of Thessaly to Philip, who drew from the country a considerable additionto his revenues and to his military resources. (Har-pocrat. s. v. 'VtTpapxla; Dein. Ohjnth. i. § 23; Strab.ix. p. 440; Thirl wall. Hist, of Greece, vol. vi. pp.12—14.) Upon the death of Philip the Thessalianawere the first Grecian people who promised to sup­port Alexander in obtaining the supremacy of Greece.(Diod. xvii. 4.) After tbe death r,f Alexander theThessalians took an active part with the other Gre­cian Mates in attempting to throw off the Macedonianyoke, but by the victory of Antipatcr they were againunited to the Macedonian monarchy, to which theyremained subject till the defeat of Philip by theRomans at the battle of Cynoscephalae, B.C. 197.The Roman senate then declared Thessaly free (Liv.xxxiii. 32); but from this time it was virtuallyunder the sovereignty of Rime. The governmentwas vested in the hands of the more wealthy person.'*,who formed a kind of senate, which was accustomedto meet at Larissa. (Liv. xxxiv. 52, xxxvi. 8, xlii.38 ) When Macedonia was reduced to the form of aRoman province, Thessaly was Incorporated with it.(Strab. xvii. p. 840.) Under Alexander Severtis itformed a separate province governed by a procurator(Grnter, Inter, p. 474. 4); and in the later consti­tution of the Empire after the time of Constantine,it also appears as a separate province under theadministration of a praeses. {Sot. Dig. i. p. 7;Booking, i. p. 151; Marquardt, in Becker's Rom.Alterth. vol. iii. pL i. p. 117.) In giving an enumeration of the Thessalian tribesand cities, we will first describe the four tetrarchiesalready mentioned, and then take the other divisionsof the country. 1. Hkhtmeotis or Histiaeotis ('Eoriaiarrn,'IfTTiawTis), inhabited by the HestiaeoUe ('Eo-n-atwrai), was the northern part of Thessaly, of whichthe Peneius may be described in general as itssouthern boundary. It occupied the passes of Olym­pus, and extended westward as far as Pindus. (Plin.iv. 1; Strab. ix. pp. 430,437, 438.) It was the seatof the Perrhaebi (ru^cugui), a warlike and powerfultribe, who possessed in historical times seveial townsstrongly situated upon tbe mountains. They arementioned by Homer (II. ii. 749) as taking partin the Trojan War, and were regarded as genuineHellenes, being one of the Amphictyonic states(Aeschin. de FaU. Leg. p. 122). The part of Hes-tiaeotis inhabited by them was frequently calledPerrhaebia, but it never formed a separate Thessalianprovince. The Perrhaebi are said at one time tohave extended south of the Peneius as far as thelake Boebeis, but to hare been driven out of this dis­trict by the mythical race of the Lapithae. (Strab.ix. pp. 4'U*. 440.) It is probable that at an earlyperiod the Perrhaebi occupied the whole of Hesthieoti*,but were subsequently driven out of the plain andconfined to tbe mountains by the Thessalian con­querors from Thesprotia. Strabo states that lies-tiaeotis, was formerly, according to some authorities,called Doris (ix. p. 437), and Herodotus relates thatthe Dorians once dwelt in this district at the foot ofMU. Qssa and Olympus (t. 5G). It is said to havederived the name of Hestiaeotis from the district ofthis name in Eutxea, the inhabitants of which weretransplanted to Tbessaly by the Perrhaebi (Strab.ix, p. 437); but this is an uncertified statement, pro­bably founded alone upon simiUrity of name. Homermentions another ancient tribe in this part of Thessalycalled the Aethices, who arc placed by Strabo upuu 4 r