OCR Output 410 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. 6. But when Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, heard of thestate that Herod was in, and being in great distress about hisdaughter, and the young man [her husband,] and grieving withHerod, as with a man that was his friend, on account of so greata disturbance as he was under, he came [to Jerusalem] on pur­pose to compose their differences; and when he found Herod insuch a temper, he thought it wholly unseasonable to reprove him,or to pretend that he had done any thing rashly, for that heshould thereby naturally bring him to dispute the point withhim, and by still more and more apologizing for himself to be themore irritated. He went therefore another way to work, in or­der to correct the former misfortunes, and appeared angry at theyoung man, and said, that Herod had been so very mild a man,that he had not acted a rash part at all. Healsosaid, hewoulddis-solve his daughter's marriage with Alexander, nor could in jus­tice spare his own daughter, if she were conscious of any thing,and did not inform Herod of it. When Archelaus appeared tobe of this temper, and otherwise than Herod expected or imag­ined, and for the main, took Herod's part, and was angry on hisaccount, the king abated of his harshness, and took occasion fromhis appearing to have acted justly hitherto, to come by degreesto put on the affection of a father, and was on both sides to bepitied; for when some persons refuted the calumnies that werelaid on the young man, he was thrown into a passion, but whenArchelaus joined in the accusation, he was dissolved into tearsandsorrow after an affectionatemanner. Accordingly, hedesiredthathe would not dissolve his son's marriage, and became not so an­gry as before for his offences. So when Archelaus had broughthim to a more moderate temper, he transferred the calumniesupon his friends; and said, it must be owing to them that soyoung a man, and one unacquainted with malice, was corrupted,and he supposed that there was more reason to suspect the bro­ther than the son. Upon which Herod was very much displeasedat Pheroras, who indeed now had no one that could makea reconciliation between him and his brother; so when he saw-that Archelaus had the greatest power with Herod, he betookhimself to him in the habit of a mourner, and like one that hadall the signs upon him of an undone man. Upon this Archelausdid not overlook the intercession he made to him, nor yet did heundertake to change the king's disposition towards him imme­diately, and he said, that it was better for him to come himselfto the king, and confess himself the occasion of all, that thiswould make the king's anger not to be extravagant towards him,and that then he would be present to assist him. When he hadpersuaded him to this, he gained his point with both of them;and the calumnies raised »gainst the young man were, beyond