OCR Output A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS. 163 lusius, and Sallustius Crispus. The former was ofan ancient family, at all times highly honoured,though never raised above the prsetorian rank. Thedeceased was the first of his house that rose to theconsulship. When it was afterwards necessary toregulate the classes of the equestrian order, he wasfor that purpose advanced to the dignity of censor.In the course of his time he accumulated an immo­derate fortune, and laid the foundation of that rankand splendour, in which his family flourished afterhim. The ancestors of Crispus were of equestrian rank.By the maternal line, he was grand-nephew to CaiusSallustius, the accomplished Roman historian. Beingadopted by that illustrious writer, he assumed the fa­mily name; and, though the road to honours lay openbefore him, the example of Msecenas was the model,on which he formed his conduct. Never aspiring tothe rank of senator, he lived in a degree of splendourthat eclipsed the consular magistrates, and even thecommanders of armies, who had triumphed for theirvictories. The austerity of ancient manners was tohis taste. In his apparel and equipage he was gayand costly; in his style of living, fond of elegance,and even of luxury. Uniting in his character oppo­site qualities, he was at once a man of pleasure, anda statesman of consummate ability. The vigour of hismind, though often relaxed in indolence, was such asqualified him for the most arduous affairs. Whenoccasion called, he returned to business with an clas­tic spring, that showed he gained new strength frominactivity. While Msecenas lived and flourished,Crispus acted the second character. Succeeding af­terwards to that minister, he took the lead in the ca­binet, the first in favour, and in all secret transactionsthe confidential manager. Agrippa Posthumus wascut off under his direction. In the decline of life heretained the appearance of power, without the reality;a reverse of fortune which had been felt by Msecenas,and which, by some fatality, is the usual end of allwho bask in the sunshine of a court. • Between theprince and his favourite, weariness and satiety sue­