OCR Output Chap. XIX. WARS or THE JEWS. / 437 were the kinsmen of Monobazus king of Adiabene, and theirnames were Monobazus and Kenedius; and next to them wereNiger of Perea, and Silas of Babylon, who had deserted fromKing Agrippa to the Jews; for he had formerly served in hisarmy. When the front of the Jewish army had been cut off,the Jews retired into the city; but still Simon, the son of Gio-ra fell upon the backs of the Romans, as they were ascendingup Bethoron, and put the hindmost of the army inta disorder,and carried off many of the beasts that carried the weapons ofwar, and led them into the city. But as Cestius tarried therethree days, the Jews seized upon the elevated parts of the city,and set watches at the entrances into the city, and appeared o-penly resolved not to rest, when once the Romans should beginto march. 3. And now when Agrippa observed that even the affairs ofthe Rorhans were likely to be in danger, while such an immensemultitude of their enemies had seized upon the mountains roundabout, he determined to try what the Jews would agree to bywords, as thinking that he should either persuade them all to de足sist from fighting, or, however, that he should cause the soberpart of them to separate themselves from the opposite party. Sohe sent Borceus and Phebus, the persons of his party that werethe best known to them, and promised them, that Cestius shouldgive them his right hand, to secure them of the Romans entireforgiveness of what they had done amiss, if they would throwaway their arms, and come over to them; but the seditious,fearing lest the whole multitude, in hopes of security to them足selves, should go over to Agrippa, resolved immediately to fallupon and kill the ambassadors: accordingly they slew Phebusbefore he said a word, but Borceus was only wounded, and soprevented his fate by flying away; and when the people werevery angry at this, they had the seditious beaten with stonesand clubs, and drove them before them into the city. 4. Sftit now Cestius, observing that thedisturbances that werebegun among the Jews afforded him a proper opportunity to at足tack them, took his whole army along with him, and put theJews to flight, and pursued them to Jerusalem. He then pitch足ed his camp upon the elevation called Scopus, [or watch tower],which was distant seven furlongs from the city; yet did not heassault them in three days time, out of expectation that thosewithin might perhaps yield a little; and in the mean time hesent out a great many of his soldiers into neighbouring villages,to seize upon their corn. And on the fourth day, which wasthe thirtieth of the month Hyperbereteus [TisriJ, when he hadput his army in array, he brought it into the city. Now for 3 H 2 the