OCR Output PALAESTLNA.palaestina: 525 sw£nr; off a solid surface of salt, several inches in ; they were collecting it and loading it on'(Tramb, p. 139.) It has been sometimesthat the water is so saturated with saltlaal salt cannot be dissolved in it The experi-bbbbs waa tried by Lieut. Lynch with the followingr>-=Jc; —44 Tried the relative density of the wateraf law aw and of the Atlantic — distilled wutertosga* 1. Toe water of the Atlantic was 1*02,that of thai aca 1*13; the last dissolved fa, the water«f tW Atlantic £. and distilled water ^, of its■vizhl mf salt The boats were found to draw 1rati lata water when afloat upon this sea than intar rtwar." (Lynch, p. 377.) The experiment tried> Vrspaakian baa been repeated by nearly all tra­ct" cuur*e with the same result The densityof the waters is such that it is im-ik in it "A muscular man floatedhigh, without the least exertion."of the waters have been made withta, to be accounted for, as Or. Kobinson■aaM, by the various states of the sea at dif-irva: nm; far its body of water is increased tofl» awgat of 7 feet or more in the rainy seasontlyori, pk. 289), oar, according to Dr. Robinson, 100? 13 imwt; for he found traces of its high-waterawn. at Use south end, in the month of May, moreith of its limit at that time. Theare the results of' the analyses, the standardfur the specific gravity being distilledat 1000: — . Res. ii. pp. 224,225.)aya;—u The excessive saltoeas of theis maily accounted for by the washing•"the ■amanuua and extensive salt-beds, whichmfcer to the formation of the basin, in whichrr bvmd bituminous rocks in sufficient quan-■ ■ ihJw na* without doing violence to science, toat aeveraU chemical and physical peculiarities■» Aar-water bj the continual contact of theseCfcj vita wmter strongly impregnated with salt." ••». — Tb« enormous quantity of|r tmmr.ht down by the Jordan, particularly init won. and by the other streams around1 ntne of which are very considerable,C tbm Arnoo was found to be 82 feet widen omrft ml it* mouth, — is all carried off by■am; and. wbeo the small extent of the seaarva, H at eleau- that the decomposition of itst xt be very rapid. The ancient writers•f a mtt arms amell, of bubbles like those ofmt uracil seot, and an invisible vapour,naetala, and deleterious to the intu­it* change of aspect thrice a day mayto the same cause. Now it isthat nemrir all these phaenomena haveby parent explorers, and the single onem sax cooBrnwd m accounted for in a mannerit the ancient geographers from the charge of misrepresentation or exaggeration; andit may well be believed that the enormous chemicalprocesses, perpetually going forward in the depths ofthe sea, may occasionally produce effects upon thesurface which have not been chronicled by anymodern traveller. Lieut. Lynch, while encampednear Engedi, remarked, "a strong smell of sul­phuretted hydrogen," though there are no thermalsprings in this vicinity; and again," a foetid sul­phureous odour in the night;" — " the north wind,quite fresh,and accompanied with a smell of sulphur."Lieut Molyneux detected the same disagreeablesmell the night he spent upon the sea, which lieascribed to the water (Journal of the R. Oeog.Soc. vol. xviii. p. 127, 1848.) But Lieut Lynchstates that, M although the water was greasy, acrid,and disagreeable, it was perfectly inodorous." Heis therefore inclined to attribute the noxious smell tothe foetid springs and marshes along the shores ofthe sea, increased, perhaps, by exhalations fromstagnant pools in the flat plain which bounds it tothe north. (Expedition, pp. 292, 294, 296, 300.)The 11 pale-blue misty appearance over the sea.""the air over the sea, very misty," and "the twoextremities of the sea misty, with constant evapora­tion" (p. 294), are other notes indicating the un­natural state of the atmosphere surcharged with thegases disengaged by the process. On a stormy night"the surface of the sea was one wide sheet of pho-<-phorescent foam, so that a dark object could havebeen discerned at a great distance" (p. 281; comj>.Molyneux, /. c. p. 129). A kind of mirage, no­ticed by many travellers, may be attributed to thesame cause. "A thin haze-like vapour over thesouthern sea:—appearance of an island between thetwo shores" (p. 288). This phaenomenon is morefully noticed by Irby and Mangles: M This evening,at sunset, we were deceived by a dark shade on thesea, which assumed so exactly the appearance of anisland that we entertained no doubt regarding it,even after looking through a telescope. It is notthe only time thst such a phaenomenon has pre­sented itself to us; in two instances, looking up thesea from its southern extremity, we saw it apparentlyclosed by a low, dark line, like a bar of sand to thenorthward; and, on a third occasion, two smallislands seemed to present themselves between a longsharp promontory and the western shore. We wereunable to account for these appearances, but feltlittle doubt that tliey are the same that deceivedMr. Seetzen into the supposition that he had dis­covered an island of some extent, which we havehad op|>ortunity of ascertaining, beyond all doubt,does not exist It is not absolutely impossible,however, that he may have seen one of those tem­porary islands of bitumen, which Pliny describes asbeing several acres in extent" (Travel*, p. 141.)Two effects of the heavy atmosphere of the searemain to be noticed: one, the irresistible feeling ofdrowsiness which it induced in all who navigatedit; the other, confirming, in a remarkable manner,the ancient testimonies, above cited, that the waterappeared to be destructive to everything it touched,particularly metals; viz. that ;t everything in the bo;ttwas covered with a nasty slimy substance, irondreadfully corroded, and looked as if covered withcoal-tar." (Molyneux, I. c. p. 128.) The " bubbleslike those of boiling water," mentioned by Strabo,may be identified with the curious broad strip offoam, lying in a straight line nearly north and souththroughout the whole length of the sea, which