OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 25 nister; who related his ineffectual efforts to prevent orannul the hasty violence of the Egyptian. With equalhaste and violence, the oriental synod of fifty bishop sdegraded Cyril and Memnon from their episcopal ho­nours, condemned, in the twelve anathemas, the purestvenom of the Apollinarian heresy, and described th eAlexandrian primate as a monster, born and educatedfor the destruction of the church.* His throne was dis­tant and inaccessible; but they instantly resolved tobestow on the flock of Ephesus the blessing of a faith­ful shepherd. By the vigilance of Memnon, the churcheswere shut against them, and a strong garrison wasthrown into the cathedral. The troops, under the com­mand of Candidian, advanced to the assault; the out-guards were routed and put to the sword, but the placewas impregnable: the besiegers retired; their retreatwas pursued by a vigorous sally; they lost their horses,and many of the soldiers were dangerously woundedwith clubs and stones. Ephesus, the city of the Virgin,was defiled with rage and clamour, with sedition andblood; the rival synods darted anathemas and excom­munications from their spiritual engines; and the courtof Theodosius was perplexed by the adverse and con­tradictory narratives of the Syrian and Egyptian fac­tions. During a busy period of three months, the em­peror tried every method, except the most effectualmeans of indifference and contempt, to reconcile thistheological quarrel. He attempted to remove or inti­midate the leaders by a common sentence of acquittal orcondemnation; he invested his representatives at Ephe­sus with ample power and military force; he summonedfrom either party eight chosen deputies to a free andcandid conference in the neighbourhood of the capital,far from the contagion of popular frenzy. But the ori- > '» 5= He' c\i6(a tm uxXwism it^flti; iwi Tpa$ei;. After the coalition of John andCyril, these invectives were mutually forgotten. The style of declamation mustnever be confounded with the genuine sense which respectable enemies entertain,of each other's merit. (Concil. torn. 3. p. 1241.)