OCR Output SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM. 893 cthfr Vobdua [Privbrxuh]. But the power oftit Vohciins seems to have been by this time veryi.och broken op; and it was apparently during this:n:irril that the Samnites on their side carried onu-msfn] hostilities against that people, and wrestedf-m them or destroyed the cities of Sora andFrrcrilat in the valley of the Liris, while theytinatnrd Fabrateria with the same fato (Liv. viii.H. 23, x. 1). This movement, however, gaveiibare to Uie Romans, while the Samnites on theiresald not view with indifference the reduction<f the Sdirini. and it was evident that a freshrjpf ore between the two nations could not be long de-ut«d(ld. viii. 17,19). The attention of the Samnites*«. however, drawn off for a time by the dangertbt threatened them from another quarter, and theywith their kinsmen the Lucanians to opposelb arms of Alexander, king of Epirus, who wasuiriwui): from Paestum into the heart of the>xsut. Both Samnites and Lucanians were defeated■5 Lirn in a pitched battle; but he subsequentlyoraeii bis arms towards the south, and his death in; 326 relieved the Samnites from all appre-•vita in that quarter. (Liv. viii. 17, 24.) The urn year (n. c. 326) witnessed the outbreak''!* Second Samnite War. The immediate occasionf tha was the assistance furnished by the Samnites1 liie Greek cities of Palaepolis and Keapolis,;i.tut which the Romans had declared war, when'•• M-nnitef and Nolans (who were at this time inlaaacw with Samnium) threw into their cities an n; body of auxiliaries as a garrison. They didt. .Wtver, avert the fall of Palaepolis; while Nea-'*» escaped a similar fate, only by espou*ing theL-.rf of Rjme, to whicli it ever after steadilyistrod (Liv. viii. 22—26). The Romans liad about» one time secured a more important alliance in■i'^r quarter; the Lucanians and Apulians, withan, as Livy remarks, the republic had previouslyi! a> relations, either friendly or hostile, now con-atej an alliance with Rome (76. 25). The Lu-ij»s» indeed were soon persuaded by the Tarcntines'I'Udtn it again (lb. 27), bnt the Apuliansftnaed steadfast; and though it is evident thati vb4e nation waa not united, and that many of>rharf towns took part with the Samnites, whilecontinued to side with Rome, yet such alenao must have been of the greatest consequence,an throughout the war we find the contest divided; portions, the Romans on the one side beingrved with the Samnites on the frontiers of Cam-■ia, and in the valley of the Vulturous, from•not they gradually pushed on into the heart ofaxuam; and on the other carrying on the war inK>a, in support of their allies in that country,'-1 the hostile cities supported by the Samnites.■ "-lent that the Frentani must have at this* already separated themselves from the Samniteare*, otherwise it would have been impossible fori Kamaos to march their armies, as we find them«u>lly doing, along the coast of the Adriatic'Apulia. (Lit. ix. 2, 13.)H» £rst operations of the war were unimportant; Kenans conquered some small towns in the*T U the Vultumus (Liv. viii. 25): anil we aret that Q. Fabius and L. Papirius gained repeated* -3 over Uie Samnites, so that they even suedgon, bat obtained only a truce for a year, and,-'i: <*«erriag even this, resumed the contest withreaasa forces. (lb. 30, 36, 37.) It is evidentrr&n that no real impression had been made upon their power. Nor did the victory of A. Cor­nelius Arvina in the following year (b. c. 322),thongh it again induced them to sue for peacewithout success, produce any permanent effect; forthe very next year (u. c. 321) the Samnites underthe command of C. Pontius were not only able totake the field with a large army, but inflicted onthe Romans one of the severest blows they had eversustained in the celebrated pass of the CaudineForks. [Caudium.] There can be little doubtthat the circumstances and character of that disasterare greatly disguised in the accounts transmitted tous; but, whatever may have been its true nature, itis certain that it caused no material interruption ofthe Roman arms, and that, after repudiating thetreaty or capitulation concluded by the consuls, theRomans renewed the contest with undiminishedvigour. It is impossible here to follow in detail theoperations of the succeeding campaigns, which werecontinued for seventeen years with many fluctuationsof fortune. The disaster at Candium shook thafaith of many of the Roman allies, and was followedby the defection even of their own colonies of Sa-tricnm, Fregellae, and Sora. Some years later(n. c. 315) the capture of Saticnla by the Romansand of Plistia by the Samnites shows that botharmies were still engaged on the very frontiers ofSamnium; while the advance of the Samnites tothe pass of Lautulae, and the victory which theythere a second time obtained over the Romans (Liv.ix. 22, 23; Diod. xix. 72), once more gave a shuckto the power of the latter, and for a moment endan­gered their supremacy in Campania. But theyspeedily recovered the advantage, and the victorygained by them at a place called Cinna (of uncertainsite) decided the submission of the revolted Cam-pnnians. (Liv. ix. 27 ; Diod. xix. 76.) Their armshad meanwhile been successful in Apulia, andhad ultimately effected the reduction of the wholeprovince, so that in B.C. 316 the consul Q. AemiliusBarbula was able to carry the war into Lucania,where he took the town of Nerulutn. (Liv. ix. 20.)The decisive victory of the consuls of n. c. 314 hadalso for the first time opened the way into theheart of Samnium, and they laid siege to Bovianuin,tho capital of the Pentri. The next year wasmarked by the fall of Kola, followed by that ofAtina and Calatia (Cajazso); and it seemed pro­bable that the war was at length drawing to a closein favour of the Romans, when the outbreak of afresh war with the Etruscans in B. c. 311 dividedthe attention of that people, and, by occupying alarge part of their forces in another quarter, operateda powerful diversion in favour of the Samnites. Tothese additional enemies were added the Umbrianaas well as the Marsi and Pcli^ni; yet the Romansnot only made head against all these nations, but atthe same time carried their victorious arms into theheart of Samnium. Bovianum, the capital city ofthe Pentri, was twice taken and plundered, once in311 by C. Junius, and again in 305 by T. Minucins.At the same time Sora and Arpinuin were finallyadded to the Roman dominion. These successivedefeats at length compelled the Samnites to sue forpence, which was granted them in B. c. 304; but onwhat terms is very uncertain. It seems impossible tobelieve that the Romans, as asserted by Livy, shouldhave restored them their ancient treaty of alliance,and it is probable that they in some form consented toacknowledge the supremacy of Rome. (Liv. ix. 45;Dionyt. Exc. p. 2331; Niebuhr, vol iii.p. 2C9.)