OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. dart from an uncertain hand. Before he expired, a patriotic senti- ^rj^ *£9,ment riling in the mind of Gallienus, induced him to name a Death of . . Galhenus. deserving successor, and it was his last request, that the imperialornaments should he delivered to Claudius, who then commanded adetached army in the neighbourhood of Pavia. The report at leastwas diligently propagated, and the order cheerfully obeyed by theconspirators, who had already agreed to place Claudius on thethrone. On the first news of the emperor's death, the troops ex­pressed some suspicion and resentment, till the one was removed andthe other asswaged by a donative of twenty pieces of gold to eachsoldier. They then ratified the election, and acknowledged themerit of their new sovereign \ The obscurity which covered the origin of Claudius, though it Character and '6 ° elevation of might leave room for some flattering fictionssufficiently reveals the emperorthe meanness of his birth. We can only discover that he was anative of one of the provinces bordering on the Danube; that hisyouth was spent in arms, and that his modest valour attracted thefavour and confidence of Decius. The senate and people already •considered him as an excellent officer, equal to the most importanttrusts; and censured the inattention of Valerian, who suffered himto remain in the subordinate station of a tribune. But it was not longbefore that emperor distinguished the merit of Claudius, by declaringhim general in chief of the Illyrian frontier, with the command ofall the troops in Thrace, Mæsia, Dacia, Pannonia, and Dalmatia, theappointments of the præfect of Egypt, the establishment of the pro­consul of Africa, and the sure prospect of the consulship. By hisvictories over the Goths, he deserved from the senate the honour of astatue, and excited the jealous apprehensions of Gallienus. It wasimpossible that a soldier could esteem so dissolute a sovereign, nor is iteasy to conceal a just contempt. Some unguarded expressions whichdropt from Claudius, were officioufly transmitted to the royal ear.The emperor's answer to an officer of confidence, betrays his ownVol. I. Pp character