OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419 had exposed hhn to the fatal effects of their resent- chap.ment. The orthodox bishops bewailed his death, XXILand their own irreparable loss; but they were soon Baptismcomforted by the discovery, that Gratian had com- d» S£tsmitted the sceptre of the East to the hands of a prince ^J^60"whose humble faith, and fervent zeal, were supported a. d. 38o,by the spirit and abilities of a more vigorous character.Among the benefactors of the church, the fame ofConstantine has been rivalled by the glory of Theodo-sius. If Constantine had the advantage of erecting thestandard of the cross, the emulation of his successorassumed the merit of subduing the Arian heresy, andof abolishing the worship of idols in the Romanworld. Theodosius was the first of the emperorsbaptised in the true faith of the Trinity. Althoughhe was born of a Christian family, the maxims, or atleast the practice, of the age, encouraged him to delaythe ceremony of his initiation ; till he was admonishedof the danger of delay, by the serious illness whichthreatened his life, towards the end of the first yearof his reign. Before he again took the field againstthe Goths, he received the sacrament of baptism fromAcholius, the orthodox bishop of Thessalonica: and,as the emperor ascended from the holy font, stillglowing with the warm feelings of regeneration, hedictated a solemn edict, which proclaimed his ownfaith, and prescribed the religion of his subjects."It is our pleasure (such is the Imperial style) that"all the nations, which are governed by our clemency"and moderation, should stedfastly adhere to the"religion which was taught by St. Peter to the Ro-"mans; which faithful tradition has preserved; and"which is now professed by the pontiff Uamasus,"and by Peter, bishop of Alexandria, a man of apo-"stolic holiness. According to the discipline of the"apostles, and the doctrine of the gospel, let us be-"lieve the sole deity of the Father, the Son, and the"Holy Ghost; under an equal majesty, and a pious E E 2