OCR Output ■l II. YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431. pompus the son of Clinias, who, making several descents,plundered many maritime places, and took Thronium. Hecarried from thence some hostages, and at Alope defeated abody of Locrians who were marching to its relief. The same summer, the Athenians transported from iEginaall the inhabitants, not only the men but the children and thewomen, reproaching them as the principal authors of the pre­sent war. And judging they might securely keep possessionof iEgina, which lay so near to Peloponnesus, if they peopledit with a colony of their own—with this view, not long after,they fixed some of their own people in possession of it. TheLacedaemonians received the iEgineta e on their expulsion, andassigned them Thyraa for their place of residence, and thecountry about it for their subsistence, not only on account oftheir own enmity to the Athenians, but the particular obliga-tions they lay under to the .(Eginet*, for the succour they hadgiven them in the time of the earthquake and the insurrec­tion of the Helots. The district of Thyraa lies between Ar-gia and Laconia, declining quite down to the sea. Here someof them fixed their residence, but the rest were dispersed in­to other parts of Greece. The same summer, on the first day of the lunar month, atwhich time alone it can possibly fall out, there was an eclipseof the sun in the afternoon. The sun looked for a time likethe orescent of the moon, and some stars appeared, but thefull orb shone out afterwards in all its lustre. The same summer also, the Athenians, who had hithertoregarded as their enemy Nymphodorus, the son of Pythes ofAbdera, whose sister was married to Sitalces, and who had agreat influence over him, made him their public friend, and in­vited him to Athens. They hoped by this to gain over Sital­ces, the son of Teres king of Thrace, to their alliance. ThisTeres, father of Sitalces, was the first who made the kingdomof Odrysa the largest in all Thrace: For the greater part ofthe Thracians are free, and governed by their own laws. Butthis Teres was not in the least related to Tereus, who marri­