OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 113 hundred men, but found affairs on that side in a verydifferent posture; the Romans driven from theirground, and the victorious enemy pressing on theirdisordered battalions. However, the arrival of theconsul effected a speedy change in every particular ;for, on the sight of their leader, the spirit of the sol­diers was revived, and the bravery of the men whocame with him rendered them a more powerful rein­forcement than even their number; while the news ofsuccess in the other wing, of which they soon had visi­ble proof, restored the vigor of the fight. From thistime the Romans became victorious through the wholeextent of the line, and the Samnites, giving up thecontest, were slain or taken prisoners, except such asmade their escape to Maleventum, the town which isnow called Beneventum. Thirty thousand of theSamnites were slain or taken, according to accountsof historians. 28. The consuls, after this important victory, ledforward the legions to lay siege to Bovianum; andthere they continued during part of the winter, untilCains Petilius being nominated dictator, with MarcusFoslius master of the horse, received the command ofthe army from the new consuls, Lucius Papirius Cursora fifth, and Caius Junius Bubulcus a second time.[A.U.C. 441. B.C. 311.] On hearing that the citadelof Fregellas was taken by the Samnites, be left Bovia­num, and proceeded to that city, of which he recoveredpossession without any contest, the Samnites abandon­ing it in the night: he then placed a strong garrisonthere, and returned to Campania, directing his opera­tions principally to the recovery of Nola. Within thewalls of this place the whole multitude of the Sam­nites, and the inhabitants of the country about Nola,shut themselves up on the approach of the dictator.Having taken a view of the situation of the city, inorder to open the approach to the fortifications, he setfire to all the buildings which stood round the walls,which were very numerous; and, in a short time after,Nola was taken, either by the dictator Petilius, or the LIV. VOL. III. H