OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 259 made war against, and prosecuted, the oppressed multitudeand the middle party which advised a modification of therigid letter of the law; once more Rome stood on the vergeof that abyss, into which the despairing debtor drags hiscreditor along with him. But since that time the simplecivil and moral organization of a great agricultural city hadbeen succeeded by the social antagonisms of a capital of manynations, and by that demoralization in which the prince andthe beggar meet; now everything had come to be on abroader, more abrupt, and fearfully grander scale. Whenthe Social war brought all the political and social elementsfermenting among the citizens into collision with each other,it laid the foundation for a new revolution. An accidentled to its outbreak. It was the tribune of the people Publius Sulpicius Rufus The Snipi-who in 666 proposed to the burgesses to declare that every cian 1:lws-senator, who owed more than 2000 denarii (£82), shouldforfeit his seat in the senate; to grant to the burgessescondemned by non-free jury courts liberty to return home;to distribute the new burgesses among all the tribes, andlikewise to allow the right of voting in all tribes to thefreedmen. They were proposals, which from the mouth ofsuch a man were at least somewhat surprising. Publius SulpiciusSulpicius Rufus (born in 630) owed his political importance Kut'ua.not so much to his noble birth, his important connections, m"and his hereditary wealth, as to his remarkable talent asan orator, in which none of his contemporaries equalledhim. His powerful voice, his lively gestures sometimesbordering on theatrical display, the luxuriant copiousnessof his flow of words arrested, even if they did not convince,his hearers. As a partisan he was from the first on the sideof the senate, and his first public appearance (659) had been 95the impeachment of Norbanus who was mortally hated bythe government party (P. 217). Among the conservativeshe belonged to the section of Crassus and Drusus. We donot know what primarily gave occasion to his soliciting thetribuneship of the people for 666, and on its account re- 88.nouncing his patrician nobility; but he seems to have beenby no means rendered a revolutionist by the fact that he,like the whole middle party, had been persecuted as revolu­tionary by the conservatives, and to have by no meansintended an overthrow-of the constitution in the sense ofGaius Gracchus, It would rather seem that, as the only