OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 3 death. The Romans who escaped the slaughter of thisdisastrous day fled, half armed, by different roads intoSamnium, to the consul Marcellus. 2. Marcellus, not too much dismayed by so great adisaster, wrote to Rome to the senate an account of thegeneral and army being lost at Herdonea; adding, thatnotwithstanding this misfortune, ' he, who had quelledthe haughty spirit of Hannibal, when his confidencewas at the highest, in consequence of his victory atCannae, was now going against him, with the samedegree of resolution, and would take effectual carethat his present joy and exultation should be short.'At Rome, as people's grief for the past was great, sowere their fears of the future. The consul, passingover from Samnium into Lucania, pitched his camp atNumistro, on level ground, within view of Hannibal,who was posted on a bill. He gave, besides, anotherproof of confidence in his own strength, for he was thefirst to offer battle: nor did Hannibal, on seeing thestandards advance through the gates, decline the chal­lenge. However, they drew up their forces in sucha manner, that the right wing of the Carthaginiansstretched up the hill, and the left wing of the Romanswas brought close to the town. From the third hourthe action had lasted until night, and the fatigue offighting for such a length of time had overpowered theforemost lines, consisting, on the side of the Romans,of the first legion and the right wing of allies; onHannibal's side, of the Spanish infantry, Balearicslingers, and the elephants, which, at the beginning ofthe engagement, had been brought into the field. Andnow the fight flagged for a considerable time, neitherparty having gained any advantage, when the thirdlegion advanced into the place of the first, and the leftwing of the allies into that of the right; on the side ofthe enemy, likewise, the wearied were relieved byfresh troops. On this, both parties being in full spi­rits and vigor, instead of the former languid efforts, afurious conflict at once arose; but night separated thecombatants before the victory could be decided. Next