OCR Output TARENTUM. TARENTUM. lire of seven arches. This w«s already the case>[Tibo'» time;, though no mention of it is foundlie time of the siege by Hannibal,rbe general form and arrangement of the citysnot be better described than they are by Strabo.i says: "While the whole of the rest of the[ratine gulf is destitute of ports, there is hererery large and {air port, closed at the entrance s large bridge, and not less than 100 stadiaurrumrerence. [This is beneath the truth: thesr* Piccolo is more than 16 miles (128 stadia)arcoit] On the side towards the inner recess of> p>tt it forms an isthmus with the exterior sea,:lul the city lies upon a peninsula; and the neck the i-thmus is so low that ships can easily beivn over the bind from one side to the other.im whole city also lies low, but rises a littlerjrjj the citadel. The ancient wall comprises aiuit of great extent; but now the greater part of? rpace adjoining the isthmus is deserted, andi t tual part still subsists which adjoins the mouth the port, where also the Acropolis is situated. * pftkui still remaining is such as to make up aw.erable city. It has a splendid Gymnasium,>! * good-sixed Agora, in which stands the bronze • *wl statue of Jupiter, the largest in existenceit to that at Khodes. In the interval between ■ A^ora and the mouth of the port is the Acropolis,:> ti retains only a few, remnants of the splendidTju-ncnts with which it was adorned in ancientm_ For the greater part were either destroyedtbs Carthaginians when they took the city, ornrd off as booty by the Romans, when they made■nudres masters of it by assault. Among thesetiif colossal bronze statue of Hercules in thepitol, a work of Lysippos, which was dedicated t as an ortering by Fabius Maximus, who tookretry." (Strab. ri. p. 278.)In the absence of all extant remains there is veryh to be added to the above description. lintIjbroa, in his detailed narrative of the capture of city by Hannibal, supplies as with some localm sad details. The principal gate on the E.- .< the city, in the outer line of walls, seems toi > been that called the Temenid Gate (ai vukat^ulai. PoL viii. 30); outside of which was aml or tomulos called the tomb of Hyacinthus,mm worship had obviously been brought fromma. A broad street called the Batheia, or Lowr-x led apparently from this gate towards the in-•r of the city. This from its name may be con-tared to have lain close to the port and thelev's edge, while another broad street led froman to the Agora, (/4. 31.) Another streetej the Soteira (Itrrt'tpa) was apparently on the j ■ •ate aide of the city from the Batheia, and mustTwin have adjoined the outer sea. (/A. 36.):a*«uatery adjoining the Agora was the Museumu*rilar\ a public building which seems to have |red for festivals and public banquets, rather than any purposes connected with its name. (Ib.t>.) There is nothing to indicate the site oftheatre, alluded to by Polybius on the samelawn, except that it was decidedly vithin the'. which was not always the case. Strabo doesaoties it, bat it must have been a building of>e ana, so as to be adapted for the general assent-u ef the people, which were generally held in it,mm the case also at Syracuse and in other Greek-V This is particularly mentioned on several•aijoj; it was there that the Roman ambassadors received the insult which finally led to the ruin ofthe city. (Flor. i. 18. § 3; Val. Max. ii. 2. § 5;Appian, Samait. 7.) Livy inaccurately describes the citadel as standingon lofty cliffs ("praealtis rupibus," xxv. 11): thepeninsula on which it stood rises indeed (as observedby Strabo) a little above the rest of the city, and itis composed of a rocky soil; but the whole site islow, and no part of it rises to any considerable ele­vation. The hills also that surround the Mare Pic­colo are of trifling height, and slope very graduallyto its banks, as well as to the shore of the outer sea-There can be no doubt that the port of Tarentum,properly so called, was the inlet now called the Mar*IHccolo or " Little Sea," but outside this the sea onthe S. side of the city forms a bay or roadstead,which affords good shelter to shipping, being par­tially sheltered from the SW. by the two smallislands of S. Pietro and S. Paolo, apparently thesamo which were known in ancient times as theChokrapes. (Thnc. vii. 33.) Tarentum was celebrated in ancient times for thesalubrity of its climate and the fertility of its terri­tory. Its advantages in both respects are extolledby Horace in a well-known ode (Carat, ii. 6), whosays that its honey was equal to that of Hymettus,and its olives to those of Venafrum. Varro alsopraised its honey as the best in Italy (op. Macrob.Sat. ii. 12). Its oil and wines enjoyed a nearlyequal reputation; the choicest qnslity of the latterseems to have been that produced at Aulon (Hut.(. c; Martial, xiii. 125; I'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8), a val­ley in the neighbourhood, on the slope of a hill stmcalled Monte Melone [Auix>m]. But the choicestproduction of the neighbourhood of Tarentum wasits wool, which appears to havo enjoyed an acknow­ledged supremacy over that of all parts of Italy.(Plin. xxix. 2. s. 9; Martial, /. a; Vsrr. R. H. ii.2. § 18; Strab. vi. p. 284; Colura. vii. 2. § 3.)Nor was this owing solely to natural advantages, aswe learn that the Tarentines bestowed the greatestcare upon the preservation and improvement ofthe breed of sheep. (Coluin. vii. 4.) Taren­tum was noted likewise for its breed of hordes,which supplied the famous Tarentine cavalry, whichwas long noted among the Greeks. Their territoryabounded also in various kinds of fruits of thechoicest quality, especially pears, figs, and chestnuts,and though not as fertile in corn as the westernshores of the Tarentine gulf, was nevertheless welladapted to its cultivation. At the same time itsshores produced abundance of shell-fish of all de­scriptions, which formed in ancient times a favouritearticle of diet. Even at the present day the in­habitants of Toronto subsist to a great extent uponthe shell-fish produced in the More Piccolo in aprofusion almost incredible. Its l'ectens or scallopsenjoyed a special reputation with the Roman epi­cures. (Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 34.) But by far the moatvaluable production of this class was the Murex,which furnished the celebrated purple dye. TheTarentine purple was considered second only to theTyrian, and for a long time was the most valuableknown to the Romans. (Corn. Nep. op. Plin. ix.39. s. 63.) Even in the time of Augmtus it con­tinued to enjoy a high reputation. (Hor. £p. ii. I,207.) So extensive were the manufactories of thisdye at Tarentum that considerable mounds are stillvisible on the shore of the Mare Piccolo, composedwholly of broken shells of this species. (Swinburne'sTrarcU, vol i. p. 239.)