OCR Output 214 ROMAN EMPIRE. by danger and dissimulation, and she could onlylabour to protect and promote some favourite monkswhom she drew from their caverns, and seated on themetropolitan thrones of the east. But as soon as shereigned in her own name and that of her son, Irenemore seriously undertook the ruin of the Iconoclasts;and the first step of her future persecution, was ageneral edict for liberty of conscience. In the resto­ration of the monks, a thousand images were exposedto the public veneration; a thousand legends wereinvented of their sufferings and miracles. By the op­portunities of death or removal, the episcopal seats werejudiciously filled: the most eager competitors for earth­ly or celestial favour, anticipated and flattered thejudgment of their sovereign; and the promotion of hersecretary Tarasius, gave Irene the patriarch of Constan­tinople, and the command of the oriental church. Butthe decrees of a general council could only be repealedby a similar assembly;1 the Iconoclasts, whom she con­vened, were bold in possession, and averse to debate; andthe feeble voice of the bishops was re-echoed by the moreformidable clamour of the soldiers and people of Con­stantinople. The delay and intrigues of a year,general the separation of the disaffected troops, and thechoice of Nice for a second orthodox synod, re-moved these obstacles; and the episcopal con-Sept. 24-1 science was again, after the Greek fashion, inthe hands of the prince. No more than eigh­teen days were allowed for the consummation of thisimportant work: the Iconoclasts appeared, not asfudges, but as criminals or penitents; the scene was de­corated by the legates of pope Hadrian and the easternpatriarch,11 the decrees were framed by the president Ta­ 'See the Acts, in Greek and Latin, of the second council of Nice, with a num­ber of relative pieces, in the seventh volume of the councils, p. 645—1600. Afaithful version, with some critical notes, would provoke, in different readers,»sigh or a smile. k The pope's legates were casual messengers, two priests without any specialcommission, and who were disavowed on their return. Some vagabond monkt