OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 431 was rejected with the deepest abhorrence; and the popeasserted, most probably with truth, that a linen whichhad been sanctified in the neighbourhood of his body,or the filings of his chain, which it was sometimes easyand sometimes impossible to obtain, possessed an equaldegree of miraculous virtue/ But the power as well asvirtue of the apostles resided with living energy in thebreasts of their successors; and the chair of St. Peter wasfilled under the reign of Maurice by the first and great­est of the name of Gregory.5 His grandfather Felix had Birth andhimself been pope, and as the bishops were already bound of Grego-"by the law of celibacy, his consecration must have beenry tlle Ro" J * mait. preceded by the death of his wife. The parents of Gre­gory, Sylvia and Gordian, were the noblest of the senate,and the most pious of the church of Rome: his femalerelations were numbered among the saints and virgins;and his own figure with those of his father and motherwere represented near three hundred years in a familyportrait,' which he offered to the monastery of St. An­drew. The design and colouring of this picture affordah honourable testimony, that the art of painting was cul­tivated by the Italians of the sixth century ; but the mostabject ideas must be entertained of their taste and learn­ing, since the epistles of Gregory, his sermons, and his r Gregor. lib. 3. epist. 24. edict. 12, &c. From the epistles of Gregory, and theeighth volume of the Annals of Baronins,-the pious reader may collect the particlesof holy iron which were inserted in keys or crosses of gold, and distributed in Bri­tain, Gaul, Spain, Africa, Constantinople, and Egypt. The pontifical smith who han­dled the file must have understood the miracles which it was in his own power to ope­rate or withhold ; a circumstance which ahates the superstition of Gregory at the ex»pense of his veracity. • Besides the epistles of Gregory himself, which are methodised by Dupin, (Br-blintheque Eccles. tom. 5. p. 103—126.) we have three lives of the pope; the twofirst written in the eighth and ninth centuries (de Triplici Vita St. Greg. Preface tothe fourth volume of the Benedictine edition), by the deacons Paul (p. 1—18.) andJohn, (p. 19—188.) and containing much original, though doubtful, evidenee; thethird, a long and laboured compilation by the Benedictine editors, (p, 199—305.)The Annals of Barouius are a copious but partial history. His papal prejudices aretempered by the good sense of Fleury, (Hist. Ecoles. tom. 8.) and his chronologyhas been rectified by the criticism of Pagi and Muratori. 1 John the deacon has described them like an eye-wituess, (lib. 4. c. 83, 84.) andhis description is illustrated byAngelo Rocca, a Roman antiquary, (St. Greg. Opera,tom. 4. p. 312—326.) who observes, that some Mosaics of the popes of the seventhcentury are still preserved in the old churches of Rome. (p. 321—323.) The samewalls which represented Gregory's family, are now decorated with the martyrdom ofSt, Andrew, the noble contest of Pominichino and Guide. ,