OCR Output xcvi A Survey of the History. At this juncture, some drunken frolics, in which Alcibi-ades was engaged, threw Athens into consternation. Theywere soon construed by his enemies into a plot to bring abouta revolution in the government. Informers came in, and hewas directly accused of being a party. He avowed his inno­cence, insisted on an immediate trial, which he was surewould end in his justification. The plot, which in fact was aplot against Alcibiades, was not yet ripe enough to ruin him ;and therefore, by a strange preposterous stroke of cunning, heis ordered to proceed in the expedition, and take his trial athis return. Our author next describes the departure of the grand ar­mament in all its solemnity, and with all the medley of hopesand fears shewn by the whole people of Athens on this occa­sion. He lays open to our view the very hearts of the spec­tators. The prime flower of their strength, nay Athens itself,is now sailing out of the Pineus, never again to return.They make the best of their way to Corcyra, where they areleft for a time, that we may be made privy to the consulta­tions and defensive measures of Sicily. The scene is nowremoved to Syracuse, the most powerful state in that island,inhabited by Grecians, and if indeed inferior, yet second atthis time to no other State in Greece but Athens alone. Ithad frequently been harassed by seditions, had often beenplagued with tyrants, but was at present under a democraticconstitution. Advice had been received there of the intended invasion.The people are convened about it. Harangues are made ;and the temper of mankind, when party is fermenting, justlyexemplified. Some are incredulous; others magisteriallypronounce it all a falsehood. At length Hermocrates risethup, and gives them his own sense of the affair. He assures them " his country is eminently indangered," and neither incredulity nor ridicule shall awe him into si-" lence. To his certain knowledge, the Athenians are already" at sea. fully bent on the conquest of Sicily. The Syracusan"?