OCR Output 008 SARDINIA.nawrwiaa Cic. ad (I Fr, ii. 3; Tac. Uist. ii. 85; SSL IUl.xii. 371.) There can be no doubt that this wasmainly owing to the extensive marshes and laguneson the coast, formed at the mouths of the rivers;and as these naturally adjoined the more level tractsand plains, it was precisely the most fertile parts ofthe island that suffered the moat severely from ma­laria. (Strab. I. <•.) The more elevated and moun­tainous tracts in the interior were doubtless then, asnow, free from this scourge; but they were inhabitedonly by wild tribes, and rarely visited by the more ci­vilised" inhabitants of the plains and cities. Hencethe character of unhcalthiuess was naturally appliedto the whole island. II. History.The statements of ancient writers concerning theorigin of the population of Sardinia are extremelyvarious and conflicting, and agree only in represent­ing it as of a very mixed kind, and proceeding frommany different sources. According to Panaanias,who lias given these traditions in the greatest detail,its first in habitant! were Libyans, who crossed overunder the command of Sard OS, the son of a nativehero or divinity, who was identified by the Greekswith Hercules. (Pans. x. 17. § 2.) This Sarduswas supposed to have given name to the island,which was previously called, or at least known tothe Greeks, by that of Ichnusa (Tx^icra), from theresemblance of its general form to the print of aman's foot. (Paus. I. c. § 1; Sil. Ital. xii. 35S—360; Pseud. Arist. Mirab. 104.) Timaeus, ac­cording to Pliny, called it Sandaholis from the samecircumstance (Pirn, iii. 12. s. 17); but it is clearthat neither of these names was ever in general use.Tiie fact that the earliest population came fromAfrica is intrinsically probable enough, though littlevalue can be attached to such traditions. Pausaniasindeed expressly tells us (/. c. § 7) that the popu­lation of the mountain districts (the people whomho calls Ilienses) resembled the Libyans both intheir physical characters and their habits of life.The next settlers, according to Pausanias, were aGreek colony under Aristaeus, to whom some writersascribe the foundation of Caralis; and these werefollowed by a body of Iberians under a leader namedNorax, who founded the city called Nora in theSW. part of the island. Next to these came a bodyof Greeks fr m Thespiae and Attica, under thecommand of Iolaus, who founded a colony at Olbiain the NE. corner of the island. After this came abody of Trojans, a part of those who had escapedfrom the destruction of their city, and establishedthemselves in the southern part of the island. Itwss not till long afterwards that they were expelledfrom thence by a fresh body of Libyans, who drovethem up into the more rugged and inaccessible partso; the island, where they retained down to a late periodthe name of Ilienses {'l\ius, Paus. x. 17. 2—7;Sil. Ital. xii. 360—368). The existence of a moun­tain tribe of this name is a well attested fact, asthe/ are mentioned by Livy as well as by the geo­graphers; and it is probable that the casual resem­blance of name gave occasion to the fable of theirTrajan origin. [Ilienses.] The Iolai or Iolaenses,on the other hand, bad lost their name in the timeot Strsbo, and were called, according to him, Dis>gheabians (ftmyejefra, v, p. 225), a name which is,however, not found in any other ancient author.Another tribe, whose name is found in historicaltimes, ii that of the Baiari, who, according to Pau- sanias, derived their origin from a bnh 4 merce­naries in the service of Carthage, that bd nVi mrrefuge to the mountains. (Pass. L t § 9.) Tthese must be added the Corsi, whose orina a sdciently indicated by their name. Tbev dwtk aa 1mountains in the N. of the island (the MimtmgmLimbarra), and had evidently erased tro fna« 1adjacent island of Corsica, as they are dtmftaa1Pausanias as having done. | V ..-. Lc) It is idle to attempt to criticise such tra&liraithese; they are related with many wother writers, some of whom term tbeothers tbe Ilienses, the most ancientthe island (Diod. iv. 29, v. 15: Mel n. 7- JStrab. v. p. 225; Sil. Ital. ('..-.■■that the different mountain tribes were 4mmfounded with one another. Strata ake» Istatement that the earliest inhabitants *£ Sas(before the arrival of Iolaus) were Tip. 225), by which he must probably neaa flgians, rather than Etruscans. We have a* aeaof any Greek colonies in Sardinia dunnf thetorical period; though the bland was certaintyknown to them, and seems to hare been knkri |as affording a tempting field fir cokinaiiTwawe are told by Herodotus that when Pboraeawere taken by Harpagus (b. c. 545) thesuggested that all the remaining lociansceed in a body to Sardinia, and establishin that island. (Herod, i. 170.) A.^jk.Histiaeus of Miletus promised Darius to sdmmwhole island for him; and it appears that the piof emigrating there was seriously eotertaawaVv. 106, 124.) Pausanias indeedseniaus as thinking of emigrating thenearlier period, j ust after the dose of thenian War, b. c. 668 (Paus. iv. 23. § 5);these projects were realised, and it seemsthere were no Greek settlements in tbe itime when it fell into the hands of tbe The Carthaginian conquest is indeed tbeiu the history of Sardinia that can to ias resting on any sure historical foundationof this the date cannot be fixed with eatis probable indeed that at a much earlier penai^Phoenicians had not only visited tbe coast* ofdinia for commercial purposes, but had eattMtrading stations or factories there, Diodoraaiexpressly tells us that they planted colonies iidinia, as well as in Sicily, Spain, and Africa (v. 35); and there seems some reason to seathem the first foundation of tbe imjCaralis, Nora, and Sulci. (Movers, dievol. iii. pp. 55S, 573.)- But in thismany others, it is impossible towhat was done by the Phoenicianswhat by their descendants tbeis, however, certain that it waslatter to form extensive and pennaiient senin the island, of which they reduced the.part under their authority. According tatthe first Carthaginian expedition took pWa leader named Malchus, who was, hmmmfeated in a great battle by the native hm(Justin, xviiL 7.) The next inra*ka «ducted by Hasdrubal, the son of Ma^o, telder brother (if we may trust to the maaJustin) of Hamilcar, who was killed ax 1b. c. 480. Hasdrubal himself, after mmcesses, was shuu in battle; but the Oseem to have from this time ■ lintai—d