OCR Output 414 [BOOK XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. feasted on the fourteenth day, and that whichfollowed it. Whence it is, that even now allthe Jews that are in the habitable earth keepthese days as a festival; and send portionsto one another. Mordecai also wrote to theJews that lived in the kingdom of Artaxerxes,to observe these days, and celebrate them asfestivals: and to deliver them down to pos­terity: that this festival might continue forall time to come; and that it might never beburied in oblivion. For since they were aboutto be destroyed by Haman, they would do aright thing, upon escaping the danger in them,and on their inflicting punishment on theirenemies; to observe those days, and givethanks to God on them. For which causethe Jews still keep the aforementioned days, and call them days* of Purim. And Mor­decai became a great and illustrious personwith the king, and assisted him in the govern­ment of the people. He also lived with thequeen. So that the affairs of the Jews were,by their means, better than they could everhave hoped for. And this was the state of theJews under the reign of Artaxerxes.f CHAP. VII. of John's assassination of his brother jesvs in thetemple, and of the injuries offered to the jewsby bagoses; and what sanballat did. WHEN Eliashib the high-priest wasdead, his son Judas succeeded inthe high-priesthood. And when he was dead stars appear, they make use of three forms of prayer:in the first of these, they praise God for counting themworthy to attend this divine service; in the second, theythank him for the miraculous preservation of their an­cestors; and in the third, they bless his holy name, forhaving continued their lives to the celebration of anotherfestival in commemoration of it. Then they read overthe whole history of Haman from the beginning to theend, but not out of any printed book, (for that is notlawful,) but out of a Hebrew manuscript, written onparchment. There are five place* in the text, whereinthe reader raises his voice with all his might: when hecomes to the place that mentions the names of the tensons of Haman, he repeats them very quick, to shew thatthey were all destroyed in a moment; and every timethat the name of Haman is pronounced, the children, withgreat fury, strike against the benches of the synagogues,with the mallets that they bring for that purpose. Afterthat the reading is finished, they return home and have asupper, not of flesh, but of spoon-meat; and early nextmorning they arise, and return to the synagogue: where,after they have read that passage in Exodus, which makesmention of the war of Amalek, they begin again to readthe book of Esther, with the same ceremonies as before;and so conclude the service of the day, with cursesagainst Haman and his wife Zeresh, with blessings uponMordecai and Esther, and with praises to God, for havingpreserved his people. Their resting on this day is ob­served so religiously, that they will not so much as set orsow any thing in their gardens, with full persuasion that itwould not come up if they did; and therefore they ei­ther play at chess, and such like games, or spend thetime in music and dancing, until it be proper to begintheir feasting, wherein they indulge themselves to such animmoderate degree, that their feast of Purim has, withgreat justice, been called the Bacchanals of the Jews.They allow themselves to drink wine to excess, nay,even to such a pitch, as not to be able to distinguish be­tween the blessings of Mordecai and the curse of Haman,as themselves speak; and amidst the other sports anddiversions of the day, they used formerly to erect a gib­bet, and burn upon it a man made of straw, whom theycalled Haman; but herein it was thought, that they mighthave a design to insult Christians, upon the death of our crucified Saviour; and therefore Theodosius the second(anno Dom. 408) forbade them to use this ceremony,under the penalty of forfeiting all their privileges. Wehave only further to remark concerning this festival, thatit is always kept for two days together, and the reasonhereof is this—The Jews at Shushan had two days al­lowed them to revenge themselves of their enemies,Esther ix. 13. but the rest of the Jews in other nationshad but one. This caused, at first, some difference intheir time of feasting; for the Jews in all other parts ofthe kingdom, having done execution on their enemies onthe thirteenth day, kept their rejoicing feast on the four­teenth; but the Jews at Shushan, being engaged in thiswork both on the thirteenth and fourteenth days, kepttheir festival for their deliverance on the fifteenth. WhenMordecai however had made a record of this great de­liverance, he sent letters to all the Jews throughout thedominions of Ahasuerus, to establish it as a standing ordi­nance among them, that they should keep both the four­teenth and fifteenth of the month Adar every year, as thedays whereon the Jews rested from their enemies: andthis is the reason why the festival continues for two days,though the former of them is only kept with great solemnity.Patrick's Commentary; Hotvcl's History, in the notes; andCalmefs Dictionary, under the word Purim. B. * Take here part of Reland's Note on this disputedpassage: "In Josephus's copies these Hebrew words,days of Purim, or Lots, as the Greek copies of Estherix. 26, 28, 29, 31, 32. is read days of phurim, or days ofprotection, but ought to be read days of purim, as in theHebrew. Than which emendation nothing is more cer­tain." And had we any assurance that Josephus's copymentioned the casting of lots, as our copies do, Esther iii.7. I should fully agree with Reland; but as it now stands,it seems to me by no means certain. t As to this whole book of Esther in the present Hebrewcopy, it is so very imperfect, in a case where the providenceof God was so very remarkable, that the Septuagint andJosephus have so much of religion, that it has not so muchas the name of God once in it; and it is hard to say whomade that epitome which the Masorites have given us forthe genuine book itself. No religious Jews could well bethe authors of it: whose education obliged them to havea constant regard to God, and whatsoever related to hit