OCR Output LEONTINI. LEONTINI. 159 freedom and independence of Leontini. (Diod. xiii.89, 113, 114; Xen. IlelL ii. 3. § 5.) This con­dition was not Ion;; observed by Dionrsius, who nosooner found himself free from the fear of Carthagethan he turned hU arms against the Chalcidic cities,and, after reducing Cataua and Nairn, compelledthe Leontines, who were now bereft of all their allies,to surrender their city, which was for the secondtime de>ened, and the whole people transferred toSyracuse, b. c 403. (Id xiv. 14, 15.) At a laterperiod of hU reign (b. o. 396) Dionysius found him­self compelled to appease the discontent of his mer­cenary troops, by giving up to them both the cityanil the fertile territory of Leontini, where they esta­blished themselves to the number of 10,000 men.(Id.xiv. 78.) From this time Leontini is repeatedlymentioned in connection with the civil troubles andrevolutions at Syracuse, with which city it seems tohave constantly continued in intimate relations;bnt, as Strabo observe:*, always shared in its dis­asters, witliout always partaking of its prospe-rity. (Strab. vi. p. 273.) Thus, the Leon tineswere among the first to declare against the youngerDionysius and open their gates to Dion (Diod. xvi.16; Plut. Jjion. 39, 40). Some years afterwardstheir city was occupied with a military force byHicetas, who from thence carried on war with Ti-moleon (lb. 78, 82) ; and it was nut till after thegreat victory of the latter over the Carthaginians(b.c.340) that he was able to expel Hicetosarnl make himself master of Leontini. (lb. 82;Plut. TimoL 32.) That city was not, like almostall the others of Sicily, restored on this occasion tofreedom and independence, but was once more incor-:pcated in the Syracu-an state, and the inhabitantstransferred to that city. (Diod. xvi. 82.) At a later peri<xl the Leontincs again figure as an Iir^fpendeut state, and, during the wars of Agathocles ,with the Carthaginians, on several occasions tookpart against the Syracusans. (Diod. xix. 110, xx.32.) When Pyrrhus arrived in Sicily, B.C. 278,they were subject to a tyrant or despot of the nameof Heracleides, who was one of the first to make hissubmi»don to that monarch. (Id. xxii. 8, 10, Exc.//. [i. 4^7.) But not long after they appear to haveazain fallen under the yoke of Syracuse, and Leon-tiaiwas one of the cities of which the sovereignty»a» secured to Hieruii, king of Syracuse, by thetreaty concluded with him by the Romans at thecommencement of the First Punic War, b. c. 263.(Id. xxiii. Exc. If. p. 502.) This state of thingscontinued till the Second Punic War, when Leontiniagain figures conspicuously in the events which ledto the fall of Syracuse. It was in one of the longArid narrow streets of Leontini that llicrouymus*ia a-vskss"mated by Dinornenes, B.C. 215 (Liv.xxir. 7; Polyb. vii. 6); and it was there that,ihurtly after, Hippocrates and Epicydes first raisedthe standard of open war against Kome. Marcel I usBattened to attack the city, and made himself masterof it without difficulty; but the severities exercisedby him on this occasion inflamed the minds of theSrncu*an» to such an exteut as to become the im­mediate occasion of the rupture with Kome. (Liv.Hxv. 29. 30, 39.) Under the Roman governmentLeontini was restored to the position of an inde-jendent municipal town, but it seems to have sunkiatoaitate of de<\iy. Cicero calls it " misera civitas»tque inanis" ( Verr. ii. 66); and, though its fertileterritory was still well cultivated, this was done almost*hffly by farmers from other cities of Sicily, par- ticularly from Centuripa. (lb. iii. 46, 49.) Straboalso speaks of it as in a very declining condition,and though the name is still found in Pliny andPtolemy, it seems never to have been a place ofimportance under the Roman rule. (Strab. vi.p. 273; Mel. ii. 7. § 16; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol.iii. 4. § 13.) But the great strength of its positionmust have always preserved it from entire decay,and rendered it a place of some consequence in themiddle ages. The modem city of Lcntini, whichpreserves the ancient site us well as name, is a poorplace, though with about 5000 inhabitants, andsuffers severely from malaria. No ruins are visibleon the site; but some extensive excavations in therucky sidei of the hill on which it stands are be­lieved by the inhabitants to be the work of theLaestrygones, and gravely described as such byEaacllo. (Fazcll. dc Btb. Sic. iii. 3.) The situation of Leontini is well described byPolybius : it stood on a broken hill, divided into twoseparate summits by an intervening valley or hollow;at the foot of this hill on the W. side, flowed a smallstream, which he calls the Lisst'S, now known asthe Fiume Ruina, which falls into the Lake ofLcntini, a little below the town. (Pol. vii. 6.) Thetwo summits just noticed, being bordered by pre­cipitous cliffs, formed, as it were, two natural citadelsor fortresses; it was evidently one of these whichTliucydides mentions under the name of Piiuceak,which was occupied in b. c. 422 by the Leon tineexiles who returned from Syracuse. (Time. v. 4.)Both heights seem to have been fortified by theSyracusaus, who regarded Leontini as an importantfortress; and we find them alluded to as "theforts" (rh <ppovpta) of Leontini. (Diod. xiv. 5S,xxii. 8.) Diodorus ulso mentions that one quarterof Leontini was known by the name of " The NewTown" (t) N«'a irdAis, xvi. 72); but we have nomeans of determining its locality. It is singularthat no ancient author alludes to the Lake (or as itis commonly culled the Bivierc) of Lentim, a sheetof water of considerable extent, but stagnant andshallow, which lies immediately to the N. of thecity. It produces abundance of fish, but is con­sidered to bo the principal cause of the malaria fromwhich the city now suffers. (D'Orville, Sicula,p. 168; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 157, 153.) The extraordinary fertility of the territory ofLeontini, or the Lkontlnus Campus, is celebratedby many ancient authors. According to a traditioncommonly received, it was there that wheat grewwild, and where it was first brought into cultiva­tion (Diod. iv. 24, v. 2); and it was always regardedas the most productive district in all Sicily for thegrowth of corn. Cicero calls it " campus ille Leon-tinus nobilissimus ac feracissimua," "uberrimaSiciliae pars," ''caput rei frumentariac/' and saysthat the Romans were accustomed to consider it asin itself a sufficient resource against scarcity. (Cic.Verr. iii. 18, 44, 46. pro Scaur. 2, PhiL viii. 8.)The tract thus celebrated, which was known also bythe name of the Lakstkygomi Cami-i [Laestky-gonks], was evidently the plain extending from thofoot of the hills on which Leontini was situated tothe river Symaethus, now known as the Piano diCatania. We have no explanation of tho traditionwhich led to the fixing on this fertile tract as thoabode of the fabulous Laestrygones. Leontini was noted as tho birthplace of the cele­brated orator Gorgias, who in b. c. 427 was thehead of the deputation sent by his native city to