OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE 345 noontide heat, retire into the cave of Faunus. On a spreadingbeech they discover some recent characters. The rural deity haddescribed, in prophetic verses, the felicity promised to the empire,under the reign of so great a prince. Faunus hails the approach ofthat hero, who, receiving on his moulders the sinking weight of theRoman world, shall extinguish war and faction, and once againrestore the innocence and security of the golden age 7°. It is more than probable that these elegant trifles never reached Cams defeatithe ears of a Veteran general, who, with the consent of the legions, [j]^3™"was preparing to execute the long suspended design of the Persian jj^Eart-'"'*war. Before his departure for this distant expedition, Carus con­ferred on his two sons, Carinus and Numerian, the title of Cæsar,and investing the former with almost an equal share of the im­perial power, directed the young prince, first to suppress sometroubles which had arisen in Gaul, and afterwards to fix the featof his residence at Rome, and to assume the government of thewestern provinces 7'. The safety of Illyricum was confirmed bya memorable defeat of the Sarmatians; sixteen thousand of thosebarbarians remained on the field of battle, and the number of captivesamounted to twenty thousand. The old emperor, animated with thefame and prospect of victory, pursued his march, in the midst of winter,through the countries of Thrace and Asia Minor, and at length, withhis younger son Numerian, arrived on the confines of the Persian mo­narchy. There, encamping on the summit of a lofty mountain, hepointed out to his troops the opulence and luxury of the enemywhom they were about to invade. The successor of Artaxerxes, Varanes or Bahram, though he had A. d. 283.subdued the Segestans, one of the most warlike nations of Upper dience^the P C Asia '\ was alarmed at the approach of the Romans, and endea- basladors."1voured to retard their progress by a negociation of peace. Hisambassadors entered the camp about sunset, at the time when thetroops were satisfying their hunger with a frugal repast. TheVol. I. Y y Persians