OCR Output C. VIII.] MAS A DA AND THE SICARII. 338 hind that tower which secured the road that led to the palaceand to the top of the hill, from the west, there was a certaineminency of the rock, very hroad and very prominent, butthree hundred cubits beneath the highest part of Masada; itwas called the white promontory. Accordingly, he got uponthat part of the rock, and ordered the army to bring earth ;and when they fell to that work with alacrity, and abundanceof them together, the bank was raised, and became solid, fortwo hundred cubits in height. Yet was not this bank thoughtsufficiently high for the use of the engines that were to be setupon it; but still another elevated work of great stones com­pacted together was raised upon that bank: this was fiftycubits both in breadth and height. The other machines thatwere now got ready were like to those that had been firstdevised by Vespasian, and afterwards by Titus, for sieges.There was also a tower made of the height of sixty cubits, andall over plated with iron, out of which the Romans threwdarts and stones from the engines, and soon made those thatfought from the walls of the place to retire, and would not letthem lift up their heads above the works. At the same timeSilva ordered that great battering-ram which he had made tobe brought thither, and to be set against the wall, and tomake frequent batteries against it, which, with some difficulty,broke down a part of the wall, and quite overthrew it. How­ever, the Sicarii made haste, and presently built another wallwithin that, which should not be liable to the same misfor­tune from the machines with the other : it was made soft andyielding, and so was capable of avoiding the terrible blowsthat affected the other. It was framed after the followingmanner : — They laid together great beams of wood length­ways, one close to the end of another, and the same way inwhich they were cut: there were two of these rows parallelto one another, and laid at such a distance from each otheras the breadth of the wall required, and earth was put intothe space between those rows. Now, that the earth mightnot fall away upon the elevation of this bank to a greaterheight, they farther laid other beams over across them, andthereby bound those beams together that lay lengthways.