OCR Output MESSANA. 835 MESSANA. subjection by Anaxilas must have occurred someyears prior to his death in B. a. 476. It is certainthat «t that period he had been for some time rnlerboth «t Rhegium and Zancle, the latter of which,according to one account, he had placed under thenominal government of his son Cleophron or Lco-pbroo. (Diod. xi. 48; Schol. ad Piml Pyth. ii. 34.)It is certain, also, that before the close of his reignZancle had assumed the name of Messene or Mes-sana, by which it has ever since been known. Theerror of Pausanias, who carries back the whole set­tlement, and with it the reign of Anaxilas to theclose of the Second Mcssenian War, B. c. 668, hasbeen sufficiently refuted by Bentley (Diss, on Pha-laris, pp. 204—224.) It is probable that he con­founded the Second Measenian War with the Third,which was really contemporaneous with the reign ofAnaxilas (Clinton, F.H. vol. i. p. 257); ar.d it isnot unlikely that some fugitives from the latter wereimonj the fresh settlers established by Anaxilas atthe time of the colonisation of Messana. It is pro­bable also that the Samians were by no meansabsolutely expelled, as stated by Thucydides, butcontinued to inhabit the city together with the newcolonists, thongh deprived of their exclusive ascend -mcT. (Herod, rii. 164; Siefert, ZancU-Masana,p. 16.) The Messanians for some time followed the for­tunes of their neighbours of Rhegium: they passed,after the death of Anaxilas, under the governmentof Micythus, and subsequently of the two sons ofAnajilaj: but, after the death of Hieron, and the ex­pulsion of his brother Thrasybulus from Syracuse,tbey took the opportunity, in conjunction with theother cities of Sicily, to drive out their despots and«-*rt their freedom and independence, B. c. 461.(Dial xi. 59, 66, 76.) A large body of thefcrripi settlers, who had been introduced into Sicilyby the tyrants, were upon this occasion establishedio the territory of Messana, a proof that it was atticis period still thinly peopled; but the city seemsto Dare participated largely in the prosperity whichthe Sicilian republics in general enjoyed during thep-riod that followed, B.C. 460 — 410. The greatfertility of its territory, and the excellence of itspst, were natural advantages which qualified it tobecome one of the 6rst cities of Sicily: and this ap­pears to have been the case throughout the jieriod inijuestion. In b. c. 426, their tranquillity was, how­ever, interrupted by the arrival of the Athenian fleetonder Laches, which established itself at Khegium,a: the opposite side of the straits; and from thencerraje an attack on Mylae, a fortress and dependencyof the Messanians, which, though occupied by astrong earrUon, was compelled to surrender. Laches,v:th bis allies, hereupon marched against MessanaHath", which was unable to resist so large a force,and was compelled to accede to the Athenianallicnee. (Thuc iii. 86, 90; Diod. xii. 54.) Butt» aeit year (b. c. 425) the Messanians hastenedto desert their new alliance, and join that of theSytvasans; and from thenceforth their port became"« chief naval station of the combined Syracusanami Locrian fleets. (Thuc. iv. 1, 24, 25.) Theythrnjeltea, also, on one occasion, took courage toKale a vigorous attack on their Chalcidic neigh-»wjn> of Xaios, and were able to defeat the Na-*-"* themselves, and shut them up within their»>'j; but were in their turn defeated by the Sicu-hata ind Leontines, who had hastened to the relief<i Kara, and who for a short time laid siege, but without effect, to Messana itself. (Thuc. iv. 25.)The Messanians were included in the general pacifi­cation of Sicily, B. c. 424; but were themselves stilldivided by factions, and appear at one time to havefor a short period passed under the actual dominionof the Locrians. (Id. v. 5.) At the time of theAthenian expedition to Sicily (b. c. 415) they wereagain independent, and on that occasion they per­sisted in maintaining a neutral position, though invain solicited by the Athenians on one side, andthe Syracusans on the other. An attempt of theformer to make themselves masters of the city bytreachery proved wholly ineffectual. (Diod. xiii. 4;Thuc. vi. 48, 74.) A few years later, the Messa­nians afforded a hospitable refuge to the fugitivesfrom Himera, when that city was taken by theCarthaginians, B. c 409 (Died. xiii. 61), and sentan auxiliary force to assist in the defence of Agri-gentum against the same people. (Id. 86.) It appears certain that Messana was at thisperiod, one of the most flourishing and considerablecities in Sicily. Diodorus tells us, that the Messa­nians and Khegians together could equip a fleet ofnot less than 80 triremes (xiv. 8); and their combinedforces were viewed with respect, if not with appre­hension, even by the powerful Dionysius of Syracuse.(Id. 44.) 'But though unfavourably disposedtowards that despot, the Messanians did not share inthe strong sympathies of the Khegians with theChalcidic cities of Naxos and Catana [Khegium],and pursued an uncertain and vacillating policy.(Diod. xiv. 8, 40, 44.) But while they thussought to evade the hostility of the Syracusandespot, they were visited by a more severe calamity.Himilcon, the Carthaginian general, who had landedin Sicily in b. c. 396, having compelled Dionysius tofall back upon Syracuse, himself advanced with alarge army from Panormus, along the N. coast ofthe island. Messana was the immediate object ofthe campaign, on account of the importance of itsport; and it was bo ill prepared for defence, thatnotwithstanding the spirited resistance of its citizens,it was token by Himilcon with little difficulty.Great part of the inhabitants made their escape tothe surrounding country; but the rest were put tothe sword, and not only the walls of the city levelledto the ground, but all its buildings so studiouslydestroyed as, according to the expression of Diodorus,to leave scarcely a trace of where it had formerlystood. (Diod. iiv. 56—58.) After the defeat and expulsion of the Cartha-ginans, Dionysius endeavoured to repeople Messanawith the fugitive citizens who survived, to whomhe added fresh colonists from Locri and Medina,together with a small body of Messanian exiles, butthe latter were soon after transferred to the newlyfounded city of Tyndaris. (Diod. xiv. 78.) Mean­while, the Khegians, who viewed with dissatisfactionthe footing thus established by Dionysius on theSicilian straits, endeavoured to obtain in their turnan advanced post against the Messanians by forti­fying Mylae, where they established the exiles fromNaxos, Catana, and other cities, who had beendriven from their homes by Dionysius. (Id. xiv.87.) The attempt, however, proved abortive: theMessanians recovered possession of Myltte, and con­tinued to support Dionysius in his enterprises againstKhegium. (Id. 87, 103.) After the death ofthat despot, we hear but little of Messana, whichappears to have gradually, but slowly, risen again toa flourishing condition. In B. c. 357 the Mess*­