OCR Output RATOMAGUS. RAVENNA. C93 yrlme it Reh, which are near Machecoul and onhm 7>jn, a small river in the department of LaI ^ire. The 7Vrh enters the sea near Bourgneuf,to the hie Noirmoutier (DAnville, Notice,ft; Ck»rt- CoUiea, p. 393). [0. L.] RATOMAGUS. [Rotomaous.]KAl'DA (•P««at Ptol. ii. 6. § 50), a town ofa* Vactaei in Hispania Tarracnnensis, on the rood-~i Aaturica to Caesar Augusta (/fin. Ant. p.>W). miw Aoo, on the Douro. (Comp. Florez. Etp.ay. »i p. 274.) [T. H. D.J KAl'DII CAHPI. [Cami-i Raudii.]fUVEXNA (Pmvma, Strab.; 'PdCswo, Ptol.eiv • Etk. Rarennas -atis: Jta&nna), one of the: << isip>ctant cities of Gallia Cispadana, situatedatari distance from the sea-coast, at the southernivrrmtT of the extensive range of marshes ander e*, which occupied the whole const of Venetia■ws ihmr to Altinum. (Strab. v. p. 213; Itia.sat f. 126.) It was 33 miles N. of Ariminum.»■ -trfc lficloded within the limits of Cisalpine■si, according to the divisions established in ther» t Strain and Pliny, it does not appear to have•v Wo a Ganlitb city. Strabo tells us that itat & Tbe^taiian colony, which probably meant thatwai • IVlaagic settlement, and was connectedMath* traditions tliat ascribed to the Pelasgi theiikj of tiie neighbouring city of Spina,wo » ] But they subsequently, according to thec* writer, received a body of Umbrian colonists,wir tc maintain themselves against the growingtar tf the Etruscans, and thus became an Um-a* car, to which people they continued to belongt^y passed under the Roman government,ksw v. pp.214, 217.) Pliny, on the otherat r&, i: a Sabine city, — a strange statement,later are wholly unable to explain. (Plin. ili. 15.% i I: seems probable that it was really anwrau aetxleiiient, and retained its national cha-liaoczti surrounded by the Lingonian Gauls,• i: received a Roman colony. No mention ofKara* i» f.und in history till a late period of thean Opnbitc, but it appears to have been thenfxtv a place of some consequence. In B. c 82,|y raw civil wars of Marius and Sulla, it was(pea by Metellus, the lieutenant of the latter,(SW 'n it tiie point of departure from whence hefat cs hi> operations. (Appian, B. C. i. 89.)pi rt was ooe of the places wliich was frequentlylit br Caesar daring his command in Gaul, foran !■ m of raising levies, and communicatingI ta frvradat mt Rone (Cic ad Att. Til l, adLit, visi- 1): and just before the outbreak■ Civil War it was there that he establishedpai-<raartrrs; from whence he carried on nego-§• witfc the senate, and from whence he ulti-(• art sax am but march to Ariminum. (Id. ib.i. Cae*. B. C- '.. 5; Suet Caei. 30; Appian,t i 35.) Its name again figures repeatedly inmrt wars brtweeo Antony and Octavian, espe-f*snar tl»e war of 1'ernsia (Appian, B. C. iii.(C, v 33, SO, cfcc); and it is evident that itavnadv becrxne one of the most importantpb taat part oaf Cisalpine GauLle arjrwrtaun at what period Ravenna receivedtau ct±»v. Strabo speaks of it as having inwell as Ariminum, received a body of ■a aolaacawa (». p. 217): but the date is not(axr.1 and it certainly did not, like Ariminum,'an ti«r eaodilictfi of a regular Colonia, nume-t wliich give it the title of a Municipium. It is probable that the settlementalluded to by Strabo took place under Augustus,and it is certain that it was to that emperor that Ra­venna was indebted for the importance which it sub­sequently enjoyed during the whole period of theRoman Empire. The situation of the city was verypeculiar. It was surrounded on all sides by marshes,or rather lagunes, analogous to those which nowsurround the city of I'enice, and was built, likethat city, actually in the water, so that its housesand editices were wholly constructed on piles, and itwas intersected in all directions by canals, whichwere crossed either by bridges or ferries. The la­gunes hud a direct communication with the sea, sothat the canals were scoured every dHy by the fluxand reflux of the tides, — a circumstance to whichStrabo attributes, no doubt with justice, the healthi­ness of the city, which must otherwise have beenuninhabitable from malaria. (Strab. v. p. 213;Jomand. Get. 29; Sidon. Apoll. Eput. i. 5: Procop.B. G.i. 1; Claudian, de VI. Com. lion. 495.) Theold city had a small port at the mouth of the riverBedesis, mentioned by Pliny as flowing under itsv<alls (Plin. iii. 15. s. 20); but Augustus, havingdetermined to make it the permanent station of hisfleet in the Adriatic, constructed a new and spaciousport, which is said to have been capable of contain­ing 250 ships of war (Jornand. /. c), and was fur­nished with a celebrated Pharos or lighthouse tomark its entrance. (Plin. xxxvi. 13. s. 18.) Thisport was near 3 miles distant from the old city, withwhich it was connected by a long causeway: a con­siderable town rapidly grew up around it, whichcame to be known by the name of Portls Classisor simply Classis; while between the two, butnearer to the city, there arose another suburb,scarcely less extensive, which bore the name ofCaesarea. (Jornand. /. c.; Sidon. Apoll. I. c.; Procop.B. G. ii. 29; Geogr. Rav. iv. 31.) In addition to theseworks Augustus constructed a canal, called fromhim the Fossa Augusta, by which a part of thewaters of the Padus were carried in a deep artificialchannel under the very walls of Ravenna and hadtheir outlet at the port of Classis. (Plin. iii. 16.s. 20; Jornand. /. c.) From this time Ravenna continued to be thepermanent station of the Roman fleet which wasdestined to guard the Adriatic or Upper Sea, asMisenum was of that on the Lower (Tac. ^4nn. iv.5, But. ii. 100, iii. 6,40; Suet. Aug. 49: Veget.de R Mil. v. 1; Not. Dign. ii. p. 118); and it roserapidly into one of the most considerable cities ofItaly. For the same reason it became an importantmilitary post, and was often selected by the em­perors as their head-quarters, from which to watchor oppose the advance of their enemies into Italy.In A. D. 193 it was occupied by Scverus in hismarch upon Rome against Didius Julian (Spartian,Did Jul. 6: Dion Cass, lxxiii. 17) j and in 238 itwas there that Pupienus was engaged in assemblingan army to oppose the advance of Maximin whenhe received the news of the death of that emperorbefore Aquileia. (lierodian, viii. 6, 7; Capit. Maxi­min. 24, 25, Max. et Balb. 11,12.) Its strong andsecluded position also caused it to be selected as afrequent place of confinement for prisoners of dis­tinction, such as the son of the German chieftainArminius, and Maroboduus. chief of the Suevi. (Tac.Am. i. 58, ii. 63; Suet. Tib. 20.) The same cir­cumstances at a later period led to its selection bythe feeble and timid Honorios as the place of his Y T 3