OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 26 commanding that all, both infantry and cavalry, shouldbe ready under arms on the following day. The as­sembly was now dismissed, all acknowleging that thereproofs which they had received were not more se­vere than they deserved; for that no person in theRoman army had, that day, behaved like a man, ex­cept the general alone, to whom they ought to makeatonement, either by their death or by a glorious vic­tory. On the day following they attended accordingto orders, armed and accoutred. The general thencommended them, and said, that ' he would bring for­ward, into the first line, those who had fled first theday before, and the cohorts which had lost their stan­dards; that he now gave notice, that it was incumbenton them to fight and to conquer, and to exert them­selves vigorously, one and all, to prevent the news ofyesterday's flight reaching Rome before that of thepresent day's triumph.' They were then ordered torefresh themselves with food, that in case the fight-should last longer than usual, they might have strengthto go through it. After every thing had been said anddone to rouse the courage of the soldiers, they marchedout to the field. 14. When this was told to Hannibal, he said, ' Wehave to deal with an enemy who can neither bear goodfortune nor bad: if he gets the better, he pursues thevanquished with presumption and vehemence: if he isworsted, he renews the contest with the victors.' Hiethen ordered the signal to be sounded, and led outhis forces. Both parties fought now with much morevigor than the day before; the Carthaginians strug­gling to maintain the glory acquired yesterday, theRomans to remove their disgrace. On the side of theRomans, the left wing and the cohorts which had losttheir standards, fought in the front line; while thetwentieth legion was drawn up on the right wing.Lucius Cornelius Lentulus, and Cains Claudius Nero,lieutenants-general, commanded the wings; Marcellushimself took the charge of the centre, that he mightanimate the men by his presence, and be an immediate