OCR Output £06 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS* round about him, was terrified, and complied ; and as for thoseof his followers that were excluded, when they were informedthat he was seized, they ran away. I then called Jesus to me byhimself, and told him, that " I was not a stranger to that treach-" erous design he had against me, nor was I ignorant by whom** he was sent for ; that, however, I would forgive what he had*' done already, if he would repent of it, and be faithful to me** hereafter."' And thus, upon his promise to do all that I de­sired, I let him go, and gave him leave to get those whom hehad formerly had with him together again. But I threatenedthe inhabitants of Sepphoris, that, if they would not leave offtheir ungrateful treatment of me, I would punish them sufficiently. 23. A( this time it was that two great men, who were underthe jurisdiction of the king [Agrippa], came to me out of theregion of Trachonitis, bringing their horses and their arms, andcarrying with them their money also ; and when the Jews wouldforce them to be circumcised, if they would stay among them, Iwould not permit them to have any force put upon them *, butsaid to them, u Every one ought to worship God according tort his own inclinations, and not to be constrained by force ; andu that these men, who had fled to us for protection, ought not*' to be so treated as to repent of their coming hither." Andwhen I had pacified the multitude, I provided for the men thatwere come to us whatsoever it was they wanted, according totheir usual way of living, and that in great plenty also. 24. Now king Agrippa sent an army to make themselvesmasters of the citadel of Gamala, and over it Equiculus Modius;but the forces that were sent were not enow to encompass thecitadel quite round, but lay before it in the open places, and be­sieged it. But when Ebutius the decurion, who was intrustedwith the government of the great plain, heard that I was at Si-monias, a village situated in the confines of Galilee, and was dis­tant from him sixty furlongs, he took an hundred horsemen thatwere with him by night, and a certain number of footmen, a-bout two hundred, and brought the inhabitants of the city Gi-bea along with him as auxiliaries, and marched in the night,and came to the village where I abode. Upon this I pitched mycamp over against him, which had a great number of forces init; but Ebutius tried to draw us down into the plain, as great­ly depending on his horsemen t but we would not come down ; for * Josephns's opinion is here welllworth noting, that every one is to be permit t-ed to worship God according to his own conscience, and is not to be compelled inmatters of religion ; as one may here observe on the contrary, that the rest of theJews were still for obliging all those who married Jews to be circumcised, andbecome Jews, and were ready to destroy all that would not submit to do so. Seelest, 31. and Luke, ix. 54.