OCR Output 166 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. that bent down on their knees, and so drank,to be men of courage, but for all those thatdrank hastily and tumultuously, that he shouldesteem them to do it out of fear, and as indread of their enemies. And when Gideonhad done as God had suggested to him, there-were found three hundred men that tookwater with their hands, tumultuously. So Godbid him take these men, and attack the enemy.Accordingly they pitched their camp at theriver Jordan; as ready the next day to passover it. Gideon was in great fear, because God hadtold him beforehand that he should set uponhis enemies in the night time. But God beingwilling to free him from his fear, bid him takeone of his soldiers, and go near the Midian-itcs' tents; for that he should from that veryplace have his courage raised,* and growbold. So he obeyed, and went and took hisservant Phurah with him. And as he camepear to one of the tents, he discovered thatthose that were in it were awake, and thatone of them was telling his fellowvsoldier adream of his own; and that so plainly, thatGideon could hear him. The dream was this:he thought he saw a barley-cake, such an oneas could hardly be eaten by men, it was sovile, rolling through the camp, and overthrow­ing the royal tent, and the tents of all thesoldiers. Now the other soldier explainedthis vision to signify the destruction of thearmy; and told them what his reason was,which made him so to conjecture: viz. Thatthe seed called barley was all of it allowedto be of the vilest sort of seed; and that theIsraelites were known to be the vilest of allthe people of Asia; agreeably to the seed ofbarley. And that what seemed to look big among the Israelites, wasthis Gideon and thearmy that was with him. "And since thousayest, thou didst see the cake overturningour tents," said he, " I am afraid lest Godhath granted the victory over us to Gideon."When Gideon had heard this dream, he wasinspired with courage, and commanded hiesoldiers to arm themselves, telling them ofthis vision of their enemies. They also tookcourage upon what was told them, and wereready to perform what he should command;so Gideon divided his army into three parts,and brought it out about the fourth watch ofthe nightjt each part containing a hundredmen; they all bare empty pitchers and lightedlamps in their hands, that their onset mightnot be discovered by their enemies. Eachman had also a ram's horn in his right hand,which he used instead of a trumpet. Theenemies' camp took up a large space ofground, for they had a great many camels;and as they were divided into different na­tions, so they were all contained in one circleNow when the Hebrews did as they wereordered upon their approach to their ene­mies, and, on the signal given, sounded withtheir rams' horns, and brake their pitchers,and set upon their enemies with their lamps,and a great shout, and cried, "Victory toGideon, by God's assistance," a disorder anda fright seized on the other men, while theywere half asleep, for it was night time, as Godwould have it; so that a few of them wereslain by their enemies, but the greatest partby their own soldiers, on account of the di­versity of their language; and when theywere once thrown into disorder they killedall that they met with, as thinking thorn to beenemies also. Thus there was a great slaugh­ token of their temperance, and of the nobleness of theirspirit, which made them so desirous to engage the enemy,that they would not stay to drink, but (though they werevery thirsty) contented themselves to moisten their mouths,as we say, with a little water; whereas the rest indulgedthemselves so fir, as to drink their bellyful. But afterall, the true reason and design of this method seems to beonly this: That God was minded to reduce Gideon's armyto a very small number, which might very likely be doneby this means. For as the season of the year was hot, andthe generality of the soldiers weary, thirsty, and faint, itw;is most probable that they would lie down, as indeed theydid, and refresh themselves plentifully, and scarce to beexpected that any great number would deny themselves inthis matter. Patrick's Comment, and Saurin's Gideonclef ait des Madianies. B. * Judg. vii. 10, 11. t The expression in the text is, in the beginning of themiddle watch. For though the Romans in after ages, di­vided the night into four watches, (Matt. xiv. 25.) yet, inthe eastern parts, and in more ancient times, it consistedbut of three, whereof the first began at six, and continuedfour hours. The second therefore is called the middlewatch, and began at eleven; so that we may suppose, thatit was some time after this, that Gideon alarmed the Midi-anitish camp; and the reason why he chose this part ofthe night to do it in, is obvious, because the trumpetswould then seem to sound louder, and the lights to shinebrighter, and so both increase the consternation of theenemy, and conceal the smailness of his own army. Pool'sAnnot. B.