OCR Output A. D. 19.] OF TACITUS. 139 row limits. What topic could be safely handled?The emperor was the enemy of civil liberty, and hedetested flattery. LXXXVUI. In the memoirs of some of the senatorsof that day, and also in the works of contemporarywriters, mention, 1 find, is made of letters from Ad-gandestrius, prince of the Cattians, which were readin the senate. They contained a proposal to despatchArminius, provided poison for that purpose were sentfrom Rome. The answer was magnanimous: theGerman was told that the Roman people were in thehabit of waging war, not by fraud and covert strata­gem, but sword in hand, and in the field of battle. Inthis instance, Tiberius vied with the generals of an­cient Rome, who with scorn rejected the scheme ofpoisoning Pyrrhus, and even delivered up the traitorwho harboured that base design. Arminius, however, did not long survive. The Ro­man army being withdrawn from Germany, and Ma-roboduus ruined, he had the ambition to aim at *hesovereign power. The independent spirit of hiscountrymen declared against him. A civil war en­sued. Arminius fought with alternate vicissitudes offortune, and fell at last by the treachery of his ownrelations: a man of warlike genius, and, beyond allquestion, the deliverer of Germany. He had not, likethe kings and generals of a former day, the infancyof Rome to cope with; he had to struggle with agreat and flourishing empire; he attacked the Ro­mans in the meridian of their glory. He stood at bayfor a number of years with equivocal success; some­times victorious, often defeated, but in the issue of thewar still unconquered. He died at the age of seven-and-thirty, after twelve years of fame and power. In'the rude poetry of the barbarians, his name is cele­brated to this hour; unknown indeed to the annalistsof Greece, who embellish nothing but their own story.Even amongst the Romans, the character of this illus­trious chief has met with little justice, absorbed asthe people are in their veneration of antiquity, whileto the virtue of their own times they remain insensi­ble and incurious.