OCR Output 76 THE DECLINE AND FALL vestige maybe discovered of the form and situation of Kamtschatka, of a people ofhunters and fishermen, whose sledges were drawn by dogs, and whose habitationswere buried in the earth* The Turks were ignorant of astronomy; but the obser­vation taken by some learned Chinese, with a gnomon of eight feet, fixes the royalcamp in the latitude of forty-nine degrees, and marks their extreme progress with­in three, or at least ten degrees, of the polar circle. (1) Among their southern con­quests, the most splendid was that of the Nepthalites or White Huns, a polite andwarlike people, who possessed the commercial cities of Bochara and Samarcand,who had vanquished the Persian monarch, and carried their victorious armsalong the banks, and perhaps to the mouths, of the Indus. On the side of thewest, the Turkish cavalry advanced to the Lake Mxotis. They passed thatlake on the ice. The khan, who dwelt at the foot of mount Altai, issued his com­mands for the siege of Bosphorus,(2) a city, the voluntary subjects of Rome, andwhose princes had formerly been the friends of Athens>(3) To the east, theTurks invaded China, as often as the vigour of the government was relaxed:and I am taught to read, in the history of the times, that they mowed downtheir patient enemies like hemp or grass; and that the mandarins applauded thewisdom of an emperor who repulsed these barbarians with golden lances. Thisextent of savage empire compelled the Turkish monarch to establish three sub­ordinate princes of his own blood, who soon forgot their gratitude and allegiance.The conquerors were enervated by luxury, which is always fatal, except to anindustrious people; the policy of China solicited the vanquished nations to resumetheir independence; and the power of the Turks was limited to a period of twohundred years. The revival of their name and dominion in the southern countriesof Asia, are the events of a later age; and the dynasties, which succeeded to theirnative realms, may sleep in oblivion; since their history bears no relation to thedecline and fall of the Roman empire. (4) In the rapid career of conquest, the Turks attacked and subdued the nation ofthe Ogors or Varchonites on the banks of the river Til, which derived the epithetof black from its dark water or gloomy forests.(5) The khan of the Ogors wasslain with three hundred thousand of his subjects, and their bodies were scatteredover the space of four days* journey; their surviving-countrymen acknowledgedthe strength and mercy of the Turks; and a small portion, about twenty thousandwarriors, preferred exile to servitude, They followed the well-known road of theVolga, cherished the error of the nations who confounded them with the Avars,and spread the terror of that false though famous appellation, which had not how­ever, saved its lawful proprietors from the yoke of the Turks. (6) After a longand victorious march, the new Avars arrived at the foot of Mount Caucasus, in thecountry of the Alani(7) artd Circassians, where they first heard of the splendourand weakness of the Roman empire. They humbly requested their confederate,the prince of the Alani, to lead them to this source of riches; and their ambassa­dor, with the permission of the governor of Lazica, was transported by the Euxinesea to Constantinople. The whole city was poured forth to behold with curiosityand terror the aspect of a strange people; their long hair, which hung in tressesdown their backs, was gracefully bound with ribbons, but the rest of their, habit,appeared to imitate the fashion of the Huns. When they were admitted to theaudience of Justinian, Cand'wsh, the first of the ambassadors, addressed the Romanemperor in these terms:—" You see before you, O mighty prince, the representa- (1) VUdeIon, p. 141.151. The fact, though it strictly belongs to a subordinate and successive tribe, may be-introduced here. ' & (2) Procopius, Persic, lib. i. c. 12. lib. ii. c. 3. Peysstmuel (Observations sur les Peuples Barbares, p. 99 ioo.)defines the distance between Caffa and the old Bosphoru, at sixteen long Tartar leagues. (3) See, in a Memoir of M. de Boze (Mem. de I'Academie des Inscriptions, torn. vi. p. 549-565..) the ancientkings and medals ot the Cimmerian Bosphorus; and the gratitude of Athens, in the Oration of Demosthenesagainst Leptines (in Reiske, Orator. Greec. torn. i. p. 468,467.) (4) For the origin and revolutions of the first Turkish empire, the Chinese details are borrowed from DeGuignes (Hist, des Hons, torn. i. p. 2. p. 367-462,,) and Visdelou (Supplement a la Bibliotheque Orient. d'Her-helot, p. 82—114.) The Greek or Roman hints are gathered in Menander (p. 108—164.) and Theophylact Si-mocatta (lib. vu. c. 7, 8.) 1K (5?,TJie "ler V Tnl"' accnrdinB «o the geography of De Guignes (torn. i. part 2. p. 58. and 352.,) is asmall though grateful stream of the desert, that Alls into the Orhou, Selinga, &c. See Bell, Journey fromPetersburg!; to Pekin (vol. ii.p. 124.;) yet his own description of the Keat, down which he sailed into the Oby,represents the name and attributes of the black river (p. 139.) (6) Theophylact, lib. vii. c. 7,8. And yet his true Avars are invisible even to the eyes of M. de Guignes: andwhat canibe moreitllustripns than the false? The right of the fugitive Ogors to that national appellation isconfessed by the 1 urks theiuselves. (Menander, p. 108.) (7) The Alani are still found in the Genealogical History of the Tartan, (p. 617.) and in d'Anville's maps.They opposed the march of the generals of Zingis round the Caspian Sea, and were overthrown in a grea*battle (Hist. deGengitcan, ]ib.iv. c. 9. p. 447.1