OCR Output A. D. 19.] 13 woman of the name of Martina, well known throughout the province for her practices in the trade (poisoning, and also for her intimacy with PlancinThis measure was adopted at the request of VitelliiVeranius, and a number of others, who were thactually busy in collecting evidence, and in preparithe charge with as much assiduity, as if the prose­cution had been already commenced in due form oflaw. LXXV. Meanwhile Agrippina, pierced to the heartand her health impaired by affliction, resolved, not­withstanding, to surmount every obstacle that mightretard the hand of justice. She embarked for Italywith the ashes of Germanicus, and her orphan chil­dren. All eyes beheld her with compassion; all weregrieved that a woman of the highest distinction, solately happy with the best of men, and in the splen­dour of a court seen with a universal homage, shouldundertake a melancholy voyage, with the urn of himshe loved, not sure of a just revenge, alarmed for her­self, and by the fruitfulness of her marriage bed ex­posed to calamities yet unknown. Piso was at theisle of Coos. He there received advice that Germa­nicus was no more. Transported with joy beyond all' bounds, he hastened to the temples, and offered victimsas a public thanksgiving. Plancina was still more ex­travagant: she laid aside her mourning for a deceasedsister, to celebrate in her gayest apparel an event sograteful to her heart.' LXXVT. The centurions flocked in crowds to Piso,assuring him that the legions were devoted to his ser­vice, and for that reason exhorted him to resume acommand unjustly taken from him. Piso called acouncil of his friends: his son, Marcus Piso, was forhis returning to Rome without delay. " What had"been done, might well be justified: suspicions, un­supported by proof, would soon evaporate; and" vague reports were of no moment. The long con­tention with Germanicus might perhaps be cen­sured: it was unpopular, but could not amount to" a crime. Piso had lost his government, and 'by that* circumstance the rage of his enemies would be ap­