OCR Output 528 DISSERTATION III. Chap. XIII.] Such prodigies' had happened as this nation,-which is superstitious enough in its own way, would not agreeto expiate by the ceremonies of the Roman religion, norwould they atone to the gods by sacrifices and vows, as theseused to do on the like occasions. Armies were seen to fightin the sky, and their armor looked of a bright red color,and the temple shone with sudden flashes of fire out of theclouds. The doors of the temple were opened on a sudden,and a voice greater than human was heard, that the godswere retiring; and at the same time was there a great motionperceived, as if they were going out of it, which some esteemedto be causes of terror. The greater part had a firm beliefthat it was contained in the old sacerdotal books, that at thisvery time the cast would prevail, and that some that cameout of Judea should obtain the empire of the world, whichebscure oracle foretold Vespasian and Titus; but the gene足rality of the common people, as usual, indulged their owninclinations, and when they had once interpreted all to fore足bode grandeur to themselves, adversity itself could not per足suade them to change their minds, though it were from false足hood to truth.5 We have been informed that the number of the besieged,of every age, and of both sexes, male and female, was sixhundred thousand.3 There were weapons for all that couldcarry them, and more than could be expected, for theirnumber were bold enough to do so. The men and thewomen were equally obstinate; and when they supposedthey were to be carried captive, they were more afraid oflife than of death. Against this city and nation Titus Caesar resolved to fight, 1 These prodigies, and more, arc at large in Joscphus, Antiq. b. vi. chap.v. sect. 3. 2 This interpretation and reflections are in Josephus, Antiq. b. vi. chap,v. seet. 4. 8 The number 000,000 for the besieged is nowhere in Josephus, but is therefor the poor buried at the publio charge, Antiq. b. v. chap. xiii. sect. 7,which might be about the number of the besieged under Cestius Gallus,though they were many more afterward at Titus's siege, as Joscphusimplies, Antiq. b. vi. ch. ix. sect. 3.