OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, SIX generosity and valour was the darling theme of their song; and when they pointedtheir keenest satire against a despicable race, they affirmed, in the bitterness ofreproach, that the men knew not how to give, nor the women to deny.(l) Thesame hospitality, which was practised by Abraham and celebrated by Homer, isstill renewed in the camps of the Arabs. The ferocious Bedoweens, the terror ofthe desert, embrace, without inquiry or hesitation, the stranger who dares to con­fide in their honour and to enter their tent. His treatment is kind and respectful;he shares the wealth or the poverty of his host: and, after a needful repose, he isdismissed on his way, with thanks, with blessings, and perhaps with gifts. Theheart and hand are more largely expanded by the wants of a brother or a friendjbut the heroic acts that could deserve the public applause, must have surpassedthe narrow measure of discretion and 'experience. A dispute had arisen, whoamong the citizens of Mecca, was entitled to the prize of generosity, and a suc­cessive application was made to the three who were deemed most worthy of thetrial, Abdallah, the son of Abbas, had undertaken a distant journey, and his footwas in the stirrup when he heard the voice of a suppliant:—"O son of the uncleof the apostle of God, I am a traveller and in distress!" He instantly dismountedto present the pilgrim with his camel, her rich caparison, and a purse of four thou­sand pieces of gold, excepting only the sword, either for its intrinsic value, or asthe gift of an honoured kinsman. The servant of Kais informed the second sup-pliant that his master was asleep; but he immediately added, "Here is a purse ofseven thousand pieces of gold (it is all we have in the house,) and here is an order,that will entitle you to a camel and a slave:" the master, as soon as he awoke,praised and enfranchised his faithful steward, with a gentle reproof, that, by re­specting his slumbers, he had stinted his bounty. The third of these heroes, theblind Arabah, at the hour of prayer, was supporting his steps on the shoulders oftwo slaves. "Alas!" he replied, " my coffers are empty! but these you may sell: ifyou refuse, I renounce them." At these words, pushing away the youths, hegroped along the wall with his staff. The character of Hatem is the perfect modelof Arabian virtue:(2) he was brave and liberal, an eloquent poet and a successfulrobber: forty camels were roasted at his hospitable feast; and at the prayer of asuppliant enemy, he restored both the captives and the spoil. The freedom of hiscountrymen disdained^he laws of justice: thqy proudly indulged the spontaneousimpulse of pity and benevolence. The religion of the Arabs,(3) as well as of the Indians, consisted in the worshipof the sun, the moon, and the fixed stars, a primitive and specious mode of super­stition. The bright luminaries of the skv display the visible image of a deity: theirnumber and distance convey to a philosophic, or even a vulgar eye, the idea of aboundless space; the character of eternity is marked on these solid globes, thatseem incapable of corruption or decay; the regularity of their motions may bfrascribed to a principle of reason or instinct; and their real or imaginary influenceencourages the vain belief that the earth and its inhabitants are the object of theirpeculiar care. The science of astronomy was cultivated at Babvlon; but the schoolof the Arabs was a clear firmament and a naked plain. In the nocturnal marches,,they steered by the guidance of the stars: their names, and order, and daily station,were familiar to the curiosity and devotion of the Bedoween; and he was taught byexperience to divide in twenty-eight parts, the zodiac of the moon, and to bless-the constellations who refreshed, with salutary rains, the thirst of the desert. Thereign of the heavenly orbs could not be extended beyond the visible sphere; andsome metaphysical powers were necessary to sustain the transmigration of soulsand the resurrection of bodies: a camel was left to perish on the grave, that hemight serve his master in another life; and the invocation of departed spirits im­plies that they were still endowed with consciousness and power. I am ignorant,and I am careless of the blind mythology of the barbarians; of the local deities, ofthe stars, the air, and the earth, of their sex or titles, their attributes or subordi­nation. Each tribe, each family, each independent warrior, created and changedthe rites and the object of his fantastic worship; but the nation, in every age, hasbowed to the religion, as well as to the language, of Mecca. The genuine antiquity of (1) Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p. 29.30. (2) D'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 458. Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. iii. p. 118. Caab and Hesnus (Po-cock, Specimen, p. 43. 48. 48.) were likewise conspicuous for their liberality; and the latter is elegantly praisedby an Arabian poet:—" Videbis eum cum accessens t?xultantem, ac si dares illi quod ab illo petis." (3) Whatever can be known of the idolatry of the ancient Arabians, may be found in Pocock, (Specimen,p.89—136. 153,164.) His profound erudition'is more clearly and concisely interpreted by Sale; (PreliminaryDiscourse, p. 14—24,) and Assemanni (Mibltot. Orient, torn. iv. p. 580 — 598.) has added some valuable remarks