OCR Output AN. 610.] 365 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. days.* And Jeremiah the prophet com­posed! an elegy to lament him; which isstill extant. Moreover this prophet de­nounced beforehand the sad calamities thatwere coming upon the city. He also leftbehind him in writing a description of thatdestruction of our nation, which has latelyhappened in our days, and the taking ofBabylon. Nor was he the only prophet whodelivered such predictions beforehand tothe multitude; but so did Ezekiel also; whowas the first person that wrote, and left be­hind him in writing Jtwo books concerningthese events. Now these two prophets werepriests by birth. But of them Jeremiahdwelt in Jerusalem, from the ||thirteenthyear of the reign of Josiah, until the cityand temple were utterly destroyed. How­ever, as to what befell this prophet, we willrelate it in its proper place. Upon the death of Josiah, his son, Jehoahazby name, took the kingdom, being abouttwenty-three years old. He reigned in Jeru­salem; and his mother was Hamutal, of thecity Libnah. He was an impious man, andimpure in his course of life. But as the kingof Egypt returned from the battle, he sent forJehoahaz to come to him, to the city of Ha-math,§ which belongs to Syria; and whenhe was come, he put him in bands, and de­livered the kingdom to a brother of his bythe father's side, whose name was Eliakim;and changed his name to Jehoiakim; and laid a tribute upon the land of a hundred talentsof silver, and a talent of gold: and this sumof money Jehoiakim paid by way of tribute.But Necho carried away Jehoahaz into Egypt;where he died, when he had reigned threemonths and ten days. Now Jehoiakim'smother was called Zebudah, of the cityRumah. He was of a wicked disposition;and prone to mischief: nor was he either re­ligious towards God, or good-natured to­wards men.** CHAP. VI. op Nebuchadnezzar's expedition against the kings ofegypt and judea j the death of jehoiakim, and thesuccession of his son jehoiachin. IN the fourth year of Jehoiakim, one whosename was Nebuchadnezzar took the go­vernment over the Babylonians; who at thesame time went up with a great army to the1city Carchemish, which was at Euphrates;upon a resolution that he had taken to fightwith Necho king of Egypt, under whom allSyria then was. And when Necho under­stood the intention of the king of Babylon,and that this expedition was made againsthim, he did not despise his attempt; but madehaste with a great band of men to Euphrates,to defend himself from Nebuchadnezzar. Andwhen they had joined battle he was beaten,and lost many thousands of his soldiers. Sothe king of Babylon passed over the Eu­phrates, and took all Syria, as far as Pelusium, * The Jews were wont to make lamentations, or mourn­ful songs, upon the death of great men, princes, andheroes, who had distinguished themselves in arms, or byany civil art had merited well of their country. By an ex­pression in 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. Behold they are writtenin the lamentations, one may infer, that they had certaincollections of this kind of composition. The author of thebook of Samuel has preserved those which David madeupon the death of Saul and Jonathan, of Abner and Ab­salom: but this mournful poem, which the disconsolateprophet made upon this immature death of good Josiah,we no where have, which is a loss the more to be de­plored, because, in all probability, it was a master-piecein its kind: since never was there an author more deeplyaffected with his subject, or more capable of carrying itthrough all the tender sentiments of sorrow and com­passion. Calmet'a Commentary, and Preface sur lesLamentations de Jeremie. B. t Whether Josephus, from 2 Chron. xxxv. 25. heremeans the book of the Lamentations of Jeremiah, stillextant; which chiefly belongs to the destruction of Je­rusalem under Nebuchadnezzar: or any other melan­choly poem now lost, but extant in the days of Josephus, belonging peculiarly to Josiah, cannot now be deter­mined. J Of these two books of Ezekiel, see Authentic Re­cords, part II. page 778. II Jeremiah i. 2. § This ancient city, Hamath, which is joined with Ar-pad or Aradus, and with Damascus, 2 Kings xviii. 34. Isa.xxxvi. 19. Jer. xlix. 23. cities of Syria and Phoenicia,near the borders of Judea, was also itself evidently nearthe same borders: though long ago utterly destroyed.Nor ought the moderns to dream here of Antioch at avast distance from those borders; or even of Epiphania, orEmesa, or any other neighbours; as being still much tooremote for the situation of this city. It was, I think, in orvery near a famous passage between Judea and Libanus orAntilibanus, so frequently called the entrance of Hamath«see Antiq. VIII. 6. Reland, Palestin. lib. I. page 119, 120,121, 122. and Maundrell, page 24, 25. who very well ob­serves from 1 Mace. xii. 25, 30. that the river Eleutherus»which ran somewhat north of Sidon, ran also through thiscountry of Amathis or Hamath. See Antiq. XIII. 4. whichaccurately determines the situation of that country. ** 2 Chron. xxxvi. 5. 3Q2