OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 109 with which he repeopled Constantinople and the Thra-cian cities. They reluctantly praise his activity and cou足rage; he was on horseback in the field at the head ofhis legions; and, although the fortune of his arms wasvarious, he triumphed by sea and land, on the Euphratesand the Danube, in civil and barbarian war. Hereticalpraise must be cast into the scale, to counterbalance theweight of orthodox invective. The Iconoclasts reveredthe virtues of the prince: forty years after his death, theystill prayed before the tomb of the saint. A miraculousvision was propagated by fanaticism Or fraud; and' theChristian hero appeared on a milk-white steed, brandish足ing his lance against the Pagans of Bulgaria: an absurdfable (says the Catholic historian), since Copronymus ischained with the demons in the abyss of hell. Leo IV. the son of the fifth, and the father ofA.D.775, the sixth Constantine, was of a feeble constitu-pt" * *' tion both of mind and body, and the principalcare of his reign was the settlement of the succession.The association of the young Constantine was urgedby the officious zeal of his subjects; and the emperorconscious of his decay, complied, after a prudent hesi足tation, with their unanimous wishes. The royal infant,at the age of five years, was crowned with his motherIrene; and the national consent was ratified by everycircumstance of pomp and .solemnity, that could dazzlethe eyes, or bind the conscience, of the Greeks. Anoath of fidelity was administered in the palace, thechurch, and the hippodrome, to the several orders of thestate, who abjured the holy names of the son and mother,of God. Be witness, O Christ! that we will watch overthe safety of Constantine the son of Leo, expose our livesm his service, and bear true allegiance to his person andposterity. They pledged their faith on the wood of thetrue cross, and the act of their engagement was depo足sited on the altar of St. Sophia. The first to swear, andthe first to violate their oath, were the five sons of Co-