OCR Output CHAP. L. 331 wise man may deceive himself, how a good man maydeceive others, how the conscience may slumber in amixed and middle state between self-illusion and volun­tary fraud. Charity may believe that the originalmotives of Mahomet were those of pure and genuinebenevolence; but a human missionary is incapable ofcherishing the obstinate unbelievers who reject his claims,despise his arguments, and persecute his life; he mightforgive his personal adversaries, he may lawfully hatethe enemies of God; the stern passions of pride and re­venge were kindled in the bosom of Mahomet, and hesighed like the prophet of Nineveh, for the destructionof the rebels whom he had condemned. The injusticeof Mecca, and the choice of Medina, transformed thecitizen into a prince, the humble preacher into the leaderof armies; but his sword was consecrated by the ex­ample of the saints; and the same God who afflicts asinful world with pestilence and earthquakes, might in­spire for their conversion or chastisement the valour ofhis servants. In the exercise of political government,he was compelled to abate of the stern rigour of fana­ticism, to comply, in some measure, with the prejudicesand passions of his followers, and to employ even thevices of mankind as the instruments of their salvation.The use of fraud and perfidy, of cruelty and injustice,were often subservient to the propagation of the faith;and Mahomet commanded or approved the assassinationof the Jews and idolaters who had escaped from the fieldof battle. By the repetition of such acts, the characterof Mahomet must have been gradually stained; and theinfluence of such pernicious habits would be poorly com-.pensated by the practice of the personal and social vir­ pa mmu o at ftOAia wftma, irftrfWiu ti owrort, (Plato, in Apolog. Sociat, c. 19.p. 111. 122. edit. Fischer.) The familiar examples, which Socrates urges in MsDialogue with Theages, (Platon Opera, torn. l.p. 128, 129. edit. Hen. Stephan.)are beyond the reach of human foresight: and the divine inspiration (the A i;i ...o> /of the philosopher, in clearly taught in the Memorabilia of Xenophon. The ideasof the most rational Platonints are expressed by Cicero, (ds Divinat. 1.54.) and in&• fourteenth and fifteenth Dissertations of Maximus of Tyre, (p. 153—172. edit.Darin.)