OCR Output ZACYNTHUS. ZAI.ECUS. 1335 assisted Dion in bia expedition to Syracuse with the view of expelling the tyrant Dionysius, b. c. 357.( Died. xvi. 6, seq.; Plot. Oion, 22, seq.) At the timeof the Roman wars in Greece we find Zacynthns inthe possession of Philip of Macedon. (Polyb. v. 102.)In B. c. 211 the Roman praetor M. Valerius Lae-vinus, took the city of Zacynthus, with the exceptionof the citadel. (I.iv. xxvi. 24.) It was afterwardsrestored to Philip, by whom it was finally surren­dered to the Romans in B. c. 191. (Id. xxxvi. 32.)In the Mithridatic War it was attacked by Archelaus,the general of Mithridates, but he was repulsed.(Appian, ilitkr. 45.) Zacynthus subsequentlyshared the fate of the other Ionian islands, and isnow subject to Great Britain. The chief town of the island, also named Zacyn-thtu (I.iv. xxri. 14 ; Strab. x. p. 458; Ptol. iii.14. § 13), was situated npon the eastern shore. Itssite is occupied by the modern capital. ZmU, butnothing remains of the ancient city, except, a fewcolumns and inscriptions. The situation of thetown npon the margin of a semi-circular bay isvery picturesque. The citadel probably occupiedthe aite of the modem castle. The beautifulsituation of the city and the fertility of the islandhave been celebrated in all ages (a-oAd wi\u aZixvrtos, Theorr. Id. iv. 32; Slrab., Plin , 11. cc).It no longer deserves the epithet of " woody," givento it by lliimer (L c.) and Virgil (" nemorosa Za-cyntoos," Aem. iii. 270) ; but its beautiful olive-gardens, vineyards, and gardens, justify the Italianproverb, which calls Zante the "flower of theLevant." The most remarkable natnral phenomenon inZante is the celebrated pitch-wells, which are accu­rately described by Herodotus (iv. 195), and arementioned by Pliny (xxxv. 15. s. 51). They aresituated about 12 miles from the city, in a smallmarshy valley near the shore of the Bay of Chieri,on the SW. coast. A recent observer has given thefollowing account of them: "There are two springs,the principal surrounded by a low wall; here thepitch is seen bubbling np under the clear water,which is about a foot deep over the pitch itself, withwhich it comes out of the earth. The pitch-bubblesrise with the appearance of an India-rubber bottleuntil the air within bursts, and the pitch falls backand run* off. It produces about three barrels a day,and can be nsed when mixed with pine-pitch, thoughin a pure state it is comparatively of no value. Theother spring is in an adjoining vineyard ; but thepitch dues not bubble np, and is in fact only discern­ible by the ground having a burnt appearance, andby the feet adhering to the surface as one walksover it. The demand for the pitch of Zante isnow very small, vegetable pitch being preferable."(Bow en, in Murray's Handbook for Greece, p. 93.)The existence of these pitcb-wells, as well as ofhot springs, is a proof of the volcanic cow or ZACTSTIIUS. agency at work in tho island ; to which it may beadded that earthquakes are frequent. Pliny mentions Jit. Elatus in Zacynthus (" MonsElatus ibi nobilis," Plin. /. c), probably Mt. Siopo,which raises its curiously jagged summit to theheight of 1300 feet above the eastern extremity ofthe bay of Zante. (Dodwell, Tour through Grttct,vol. i. p. 83, scq.) ZADRACARTA [Taoae] ZAGATIS (Zd-verru), a coast river in the E. partof Pontus, discharging itself into the Euxine about7 stadia to the east of Athenae; probably the sameriver as the modern Sttcha Dere. (Arrian, Peripl.P.E.p.\7; Anon. Peripl P. £. p. 15.) [L. S.] ZAGO'RUS, or ZAGO'RL'M {Zayupoy or Zayu-pov, Marcian. p. 73: Zdyttpa, Ptol. v. 4. § 5; Zd-y»pa, Arrian, Peripl. P. E. p. 15; Zacoria, Tab./'■-.'. i. a town of Paphlagonia, on the coast of theEuxine, between Sinope and the mouth of the Halys,from the latter of which it was distant about 400stadia. [L. S.J ZAGRUS MONS '& Ziypot, rb Zdypoy bpot,Polyb. v. 44; PtoL vi! 2. § 4 ; Strab. xi. p. 522),the central portion of the great chain of mountainswhich, extending in a direction nearly N. and & withan inclination to the W. at the upper end, connectsthe mountains of Armenia and the Caucasus withthose of Susiana and Persia. It separates Assyriafrom Media, and is now represented by the middleand southern portion of the mountains of KurduUin,the highest of which is the well known Jiovandiz.Near this latter mountain was the great highroadwhich led from Assyria and its capital Nineveh intoMedia, and, at its base, was in all probability thesite of the pass through the mountains, called by Ptolemy cu too 7.j> voAtu (vi. 2. § 7). and by Strabo, r) MnSov)) sriiAij (xi. p. 525). Polybiuanotices the difficulty and danger of this pass (v. 44),which, from Colonel Rawlinson's narrative, wouldseem to have lost none of its dangers (Rawlinson, inTrans. Geogr. Soc. vol. x., Pau and Pillar of Aefi-Shm). [V.] ZAITUA or ZAUTHA (ZaoHo, Zosim. iii. 14), asmall town or fortified place in Mesopotamia, on the Euphrates, to the SE. of mm. It is said by Ammianua to have been called Zaitha (or more pro­perly Zaila) from the olive trees (xxiii. 5. § 7), wiiichwe must suppose grew there, though the climate isvery hot for that tree. He adds that it was celebratedfor the monument erected by the soldiers to theemperor Gordianus. Zosimus, on the other hand,places this monument at Dara (/. c), in whichEutropius agrees with him (ix. 2). Ptolemy callsit Zeitha (Z«9o, v. 18. § 2). [Dura.] [V.] ZALACUS (rb ZdAaKor Spot, Ptol. iv. 2. §§ 14,19), a mountain chain of Mauritania near the riverChinalaph, the highest and most rugged branch ofthe Atlas in this neighbourhood. Now the Wan-nashreete or Gueneteril. (Cf. Shaw, TrartU, i. p.74.) [T. H. D.] ZALDAPA (ZdAfcnro, Proeop. de Aed. iv. 11.p. 308), a town in the interior of Lower Moesia.It is called Saldapa by Theophylact (2 'A!a»a,i. 8), and Zeldepa by Hierocles. (ZiAJVva, p.637). [T. H. D.] ZALE'CUS (ZdATixot, or ZdAi<rarof, in Ptol. v. 4.§ 3), a small river on the coast of Paphlagonia, dis­charging itself into the Euxine at a distance of 210stadia west of the Halys. (Marcian. p. 73.) Atits mouth there was a small town of the same name,about 90 stadia from Zagorus, or Zagorum (Anon. 4«4