OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 779: "era! paesigp in incient authors. Thus we teamMm i>MDniaa (ii. 66) that it was in the forum,kl that tie temple of the Dioscuri, whose site we■jii pomt out farther on, was subsequently builtne to it (Id. vi. 13; Mart. i. 70. 2). It is alsoul lo (art been near the lake, or fountain, of■urea. (VaL Max. i. 8. 1; Ov. F. i. 707.) Allmr eirrunatances indicate its site to have beenmi tbe present church of &. Maria Liberatrice;an, inoVd tbe graves of twelve vestal virgins,xt. Loscriptions, were discovered in the 16th .ascriptions, itarv. (AUroandns, Memorie, n. 3; Lucio Fauno,aaei. eK Roma, p. 206.) In all its subse<jnenttAUces the original round form was retained, asnlafc il of the earth, which Vesta represented>. F. vi. 265). The temple itself did not imme-i'.i abut upon the forum, but lav somewhat backimi» the Palatine; whilst the Regia, which layfcwt, and a little to the K. of it, marked the- -r; of tbe forum on that side. The bitter, • cdled Atrium Vestae, and Atrium Regium,•fa bmC a ssnaUl building, was originally inba-■i by «t*a (Or. ib. 265; Plut A'wm. 14, &c).u 1 lay close to the forum is shown by the account.sews body being burnt before it (App. B. C.148); and, indeed, Servius says expressly thatly * is radiciboa Palatii finibusqoe Romani fori"in, via. 363). At the back of both the build-i oust have been a sacred grove which ran to­ts the Palatine. It was from this grove that of the city byrepair their wallsMas. The admonition was neglected; but thisetv was subsequently expiated by building atspat an altar or sacellum to Aius Loquens.. lew. L 4ft.) i-rjM Hrotilma, after the capture of Alba Longs,•■ri tbe brum with a curia or senate-house,a **s called after him the Curia Hostiua, andanes almost down to the imperial times to beant naual place for holding assemblies of thea. (Varr.X. /.. v. § 155, Mull.; Lir. i. 30.)I ibt same spoils be also improved the co­ca- * Fecitque idem et sepsit de manubiis co­xa at ~—"(Cic Rep. ii. 17); wbenco weaviiy infer that be surrounded the comitium a fcao» or avail, bat more probably that heI ■ r, more distinctly from the forum by•X it higher, so as to be approached by steps.Curat Hostilia, which from its pre-eminence isally railed simply curia, most have adjoinedasters side of tbe Vnlcanal. Niebuhr (Betchr.a. p. 60) was tbe first who indicated that it mustawad an tbe N. side of the forum, by pointingat Mowing passage in Pliny, in which theat af observing noon from it is described:—utin tabalia ortoa tantum et occasua norni-r ; post aiiqtjot annos adjectus est meridies,m fuBeniam id pnmnntiante, com a curia in-raara at giassoostaaim prospexisset solem."ML) Hence, since the snn at noon couldserved from it, it most have faced the south. frao, however, was parallel with the north-aa of the forum, as it appears to have been,■at ban looked a little to the W. of &.;that ane dove not run doe £., but a few de­ls the & of K. Hence tbe necessity, in orderarre the true meridian, of looking between tbeacasai and rostra. Now the Graecostasis—prrort of coarse, lone; after Tullus Hostilius, • has nud-daT began to be observed in this manner—was a lofty substruction on the right at.W. side of the curia; and the rostra were also anelevated object situated directly m its front. Thisappears from tbe passage in Varro just alluded to:—** Ante hone (curiam) rostra: quojus loci id vo-cabulum, quod ex hoetibus capta fixa sunt rostra.Sub dextra kujvt (curiae) a comitio locus sub-structus, ubi nutionum subsisterent legati, qui adsenatum essent missi. Is graecostasis appellatus, aparte nt multa. Senacolum supra Graecostasim,ubi aedis Concordise et Basilica Opimia." (/*. L. v.§ 155, 156.) When Varro says that the Graeco­stasis was sub dextra curiae, be is of course lookingtowards the south, so that the Graecostasis was onhis right. This appears from his going on to saythat tbe senaculum lay above the Graecostasis, andtowards tbe temple of Concord; which, as we havehad occasion to mention, was seated on the side ofthe Capitoline hilL It further appears from thispassage that the Graecostasis was a substruction, orelevated area (locus substructus) at the side of, oradjoining the comitium (comp. Flin. xxxiii. 6); andmust hare projected in front of the curia. Therelative situation of these objects, as here described,is farther proved by Pliny's account of observingmidday, with which alone it is consistent. For,as all these objects faced a little to the W. of S., itis only on the assumption that the Graecostasis layto the W. of the curia, that the meridian sun couldbe observed with accuracy from any part of thelatter between the Graecostasis and rostra. A singular theory is advanced by Mommsen re­specting the situation of the Curia Host ilia, whichwe cannot altogether pass over in silence. He isof opinion (L c. p. 289, seq.) that it lay on theCapitoline hill, just above the temple of Concord,which he thinks was built np in front of it; andthis he takes to be the reason why the curia wasrebuilt on the forum by Sulla. His only authorityfor this view is the following passage in Livy •"(Cen&ores) et clivum Capitolinum silice sternen-dum enraverunt et porticum ab aede Saturni inCapitolium ad Senaculum ac super id Curiam" (xli.27) From these words, which are not very in­telligible, Mommsen infers (p. 292) that a porticoreached from the temple of Saturn to the senaculum^and thence to tbe curia above it, which stood onthe Capitol on the spot afterwards occupied by theTabularium (p. 292). But so many evident ab­surdities follow from this view, that Mommsen, hadhe given the subject adequate consideration, couldhardly, we think, have adopted it. Had the curiastood behind the temple of Concord, the ground planof which is still partly visible near the arch of Se-verus, it is quite impossible that, according to theaccount of Pliny, mid-day could have been observedfrom it between the rostra and Graecostasis, since itwould have faced nearly to the east. Mommsen,indeed (p. 296), asserts tbe contrary, and makesthe Career Mamertinns and arch of Titus lie al­most due N. and S., as is also shown in his plan atthe end of the volume. But the writer can affirmfrom his own observation that this is not the factTo a person standing under the Capitol at the headof the forum, and opposite to tbe column of Pbocas,the temple of Faustina bears due K. by the com­pass, and the arch of Titus a few degrees to the S.of £. To a person standing by the arch of Severns,about the assumed site of the curia, the arch ofTitus wonld of course bear a little more S. still.Something must be allowed for variation of the