OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL and destroying their feeble enemy, continued inactive in those nar­row streights where its superiority of numbers was of little use oradvantage. Crispus, the emperor's eldest son, was intrusted withthe execution of this daring enterprise, which he performed withso much courage and success, that he deserved the esteem, and mostprobably excited the jealousy of his father. The engagementlasted two days, and, in the evening of the first, the contendingfleets, after a considerable and mutual loss, retired into theirrespective harbours of Europe and Asia. The second day aboutnoon a strong south wind ,08 sprang up, which carried the vesselsof Crispus against the enemy, and as the casual advantage was im­proved by his stcilful intrepidity he soon obtained a complete"victory. An hundred and thirty vessels were destroyed, five thou­sand men were slain, and Amandus, the admiral of the Asiaticfleet, escaped with the utmost difficulty to the mores of Chalcedon.As soon as the Hellespont was open, a plentiful convoy of pro­visions flowed into the camp of Constantine, who had alreadyadvanced the operations of the siege. He constructed artificialmounds of earth of an equal height with the ramparts of Byzan­tium. The lofty towers which were erected on that foundation,galled the besieged with large stones and darts from the militaryengines, and the battering rams had shaken the walls in severalplaces. If Licinius persisted much longer in the defence, he ex­posed himself to be involved in the ruin of the place. Before hewras surrounded he prudently removed his person and treasures toChalcedon in Asia; and as he was always desirous of associatingcompanions to the hopes and dangers of his fortune, he now be­stowed the title of Cæsar on Martinianus, who exercised one of themost important offices of the empire„. , , Such were still the resources, and such the abilities, of Licinius, Battle of Chrysopoiis. that, after so many successive defeats, he collected in Bithynia a 4 new