OCR Output LATIUM. 141 LATIUM. which the ancient Latiura is known in moderntimes. [Campasia, p. 494.] V. Political and Religious Institutions. It is for the most port impossible to separate theLatin element of the Roman character and insti­tutions from that which they derived from the Sa­bine?: at the same time we know that the con­nection between the Romans and the Latins was sointimate, that we may generally regard the Romansacred rites, as well as their political institutions, inthe absence of all evidence to the contrary, as ofLatin origin. But it would be obviously here out« place to enter into any detail as to those parts ofthe Latin institutions which were common to thetwo nations. A few words may, however, be added,concerning the constitution of the Latin League, asit existed in its independent form. This was com­posed, as has been already stated, of thirty cities,all apparently, in name at least, equal and inde­pendent, though they certainly at one time admitteda kind of presiding authority or supremacy on thepart of Alba, and at a later period on that of Rome. The general councils or assemblies of deputiesfrom the several cities were held at the Lucus Fe-reatinae, in the immediate neighbourhood of Alba;a custom which was evidently connected in the firstinstance with the supremacy of that city, but whichwas retained after the presidency had devolved onR*meT and down to the great Latin War of n. c.340. (Cincius, ap. Fest. v. Praetor, p. 241.)Each city had undoubtedly the sole direction of itsown affairs: the chief magistrate was termed aDictator, a title borrowed from the Latins by theRomans, and which continued to be employed as thename of a municipal magistracy by the Latin citieslung after they had lost their independence. It isremarkable that, with the exception of the mythicalor fictitious kings of Alba, we meet with no trace ofmonarchical government in Latium; and if the ac-coant given by Cato of the consecration of thetemple of Diana at Aricia can be trusted, even atthat early period each city had its chief magistrate,with the title of dictator. (Cato, ap. Prixcian. iv.p. 629.) They must necessarily have had a chiefmagistrate, on whom the command of the forces ofthe whole League would devolve in time of war, asis represented as being the case with Mamilius Oc­tavos at the battle of Reg ill us. But such a com­mander may probably have been specially chosenlit each particular occasion. On the other hand,Lrrj speaks in b. c. 340 of C. Annius of Setia andL Xmntsius of Circeii, as the two "praetors of theLatins,'' as if this were a customary and regularmagistracy. (Liv. vlii. 3.) Of the internal govern­ment or constitution of the individual Latin citieswe have no knowledge at all, except what we may(rather from the analogy of those of Rome or of theirlater municipal institutions. As the Lucus Ferentinae, in the neighbourhood ofAlba, was the established place of meeting for po-Otiaii parposes of all the Latin cities, so the templeof .Jupiter, on the summit of the Alban Mount(Monte Cavo), was the central sanctuary of thewhole Latin people, where sacrifices were offered ontheir behalf at the Keriae Latinae, in which everyc.tj was bound to participate, a custom retained■^■n to a very late period by the Romans themselves.(Liv. xxxii. 1; Cic. pro Plane. 9; Plin. in. 6. s. 9.)is like manner there can be no doubt that the cus­tom sometimes adopted by Roman generals of ccle- brating a triumph on the Alban Mount was derivedfrom the times of Latin independence, when thetemple of Jupiter Latiaris was the natural end ofsuch a procession, just as that of Jupiter Capitolinuswas at Rome. Among the deities especially worshipped by theRomans, it may suffice to mention, as apparently ofpeculiarly Latin origin, Janus, Saturnus, Faunus,and Picus. The latter seems to have been so closelyconnected with Mars, that he was probably only ano­ther form of the same deity. Janus was originally agod of the sun, answering to Jana or Diana, thegoddess of the moon. Saturnus was a terrestrialdeity, regarded as the inventor of agriculture and ofall the most essential improvements of life. Hencehe came to be regarded by the pragmatical mytho-logers of later times as a very ancient king of Latium;and by degrees Janus, Saturnus, Picus, and Faunusbecame established as successive kings of the earliestLatins or Aborigines. To complete the series Latin uswas made the son of Faunus. This last appears asa gloomy and mysterious being, probably originallyconnected with the infernal deities; but who figuresin the mythology received in later times partly as apatron of agriculture, partly as a giver of oracles.(Hartung, Religion der Romer. vol. ii.; Schwegler,R. G. vol. i. pp. 212—234.) The worship of the Penates also, though not pe­culiar to Latium, seems to have formed an integraland important part of the Latin religion. ThePenutes at Lavinium were regarded as the tutelarygods of the whole Latin people, and as such continuedto be the object of the most scrupulous reverence tothe Romans themselves down quite to the extinctionof Paganism. Every Roman consul or praetor, uponfirst entering on his magistracy, was bound to re­pair to Lavinium, and there offer sacrifices to thePenates, as well as to Vesta, whose worship wasclosely connected with them. (Macrob.Sat. iii. 4;Varr. L.L. v. 144.) This custom points to Laviniumas having been at one time, probably before the riseof Alba, the sacred metropolis of Latium: and itmay very probably have been, at the same earlyperiod, the political capital or head of the Latin con­federacy. VI. Topoorapiit. The principal physical features of Latium havealready been described ; but it remains here to noticethe minor rivers and streams, as well as the namesof some particular hills or mountain heights whichhave been transmitted to us. Of the several small rivers which have their riseat the foot of the Alban hills, and flow from thenceto the sea between the mouth of the Tiber andAntium, the only one of which the ancient name ispreserved is the Numicics, which may be iden­tified with the stream now called Rio Tor'to, betweenLavinium and Ardea. The Astura, rising also atthe foot of the Alban hills near VeUetri, and flowingfrom thence in a SW. direction, enters the sea alittle to the S. of the promontory of Astura: it isnow known in the lower part of its course as theFiume di Conca, hut the several small streams bythe confluence of which it is formed have each theirseparate appellation. The Nymphakus, mentionedby Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9), and still called La Ninfa,rises immediately at the foot of the Volscian moun­tains, just below the city of Norba: in Pliny's timeit appears to have had an independent course to thesea, but now loses itself in the Pontine Marshes,