OCR Output VfA APPIA. VIA APPIA. I!i93 valley of the Caudlne Forks, reached Candium,which must have been situated about 4 miles beyondArpaja, on the road to Benevcntum. The distancesgiven along this line are :—From Capua to Calatia - - - vi. m. f.Ad Novas - - - vi.Candium - - - Is.Benevcntum - - xi.(/tm. Ant. p. 111; /(in. //iff. p. 610; Tab. Pent.)It was at Benevcntum, as above shown, that the twomain branches of the Appian Way separated : theone proceeding by Venusia and Tarentum to Brun-dusium; the other by Equus Tuticus and Canusium toBarium, and thence along the coast of the Adriatic.We proceed to give these two branches separately. 3. Fmm Beneventum to Brundusium, throughVenusia and Tarentum. The line of this road is given in the Antonine Itine­rary (p. 120) as well as in the Tabula; bat in this lastit appears in so broken and confused a form that itwould be unintelligible without the aid of the otherauthority. But that this line was the original ViaAppia is proved not only by the dUtinct testimonyof Sirabo. and by incidental notices which show thatit was the frequented and customary route in thetime of Cicero (Cic. ad Alt. v. 5, 7), but still moreclearly by an inscription of the time of Hadrian, inwhich the road from Beneventum to Aeculanuin isdistinctly called the Via Appia. The greater partof the line from Beneventum to Venusia, andthence to Tarentum, was carried through a wildand mountainous country; and it is highly pro­bable that it was in great measure abandoned aftertlie more convenient line of the Via Trajana wasopened. It appears that Hadrian restored the por­tion from Beneventum to Aeculanuin, but it isdoubtful whether he did so farther on. Neverthe­less the general conge of the road can be traced,though many of tile stations cannot be fixed withcertainty. The latter are thus given in theAntonine Itinerary :—From Beneventum to Aeculanum ----- XT. af. P. Sub Kumulea - xxi. Tons Aufidi ----- xxii. Veuusia (t'rnosa) - xviii. Silvium (Garaijnone) • - xx. Blent (Gravitia) ... xiii. Sub Lupatia .... xir. Canales ------ xiii. Tarentum (Toronto) - - xx.Aeculanum, or Kclanum as the name is written inthe Itineraries, is fixed beyond a doubt at Lt Grotte,near Mirabrlla, just 15 miles from Beneventum,where a town grew up on its ruins in the middleapes with the name of Quintndecimum. [Akcula-stm.] The site of Koniulea is much less certain,but may perhaps be placed at Buaccia, and the sta­tion Sub Romulea in the valley below it- The PonsAufidi is the Pimte Sla Kenrre, on the road fromIjictdogna to IVn/ua, which is unquestionably auancient bridge, and the distance from Vcnnsia agreeswith that in the Itinerary, which is confirmed also inthis instance by the Tabula. The latter authoritygives as an intermediate station between Sub Romu­lea and the Pons Aufidi, Aquilonia, which is pro­bably Lacedngna; but the distances giren are cer­tainly incorrect. In this wild and mountainouscountry it is obviously impossible at preseut to de­termine these with any accuracy. From Venusia againthe Via Appia appears to have-passed, in as direct a line as the nature of the country will allow, toTarentum; the first station, Silvium, may probablybe placed at Garagnow, and the second, Plera, orBlera, at or near Gravina; but both determinationsare very uncertain. Those of Sub Lupatia andCanales are still more vague, and, until the courseof the ancient road shall have been traeed upon thespot by some traveller, itis idle to multiply conjectures. From Tarentum to Brundusium the AntoninoItinerary gives 44 M. P., which is nearly correct; butthe intermediate stations mentioned in the Tabula,Mesochoron, Urbius, and Scamnum, cannot be iden­tified. Urbiu* may perhaps be a corruption of Uriumor Hyriuin, the modern Oria, which is nearly mid­way between the two cities. Besides the main line of the Via Appia, as abovedescribed, the Itineraries mention several branches,one of which appears to have struck off from Ve­nusia to Potentia, and thence to have joined thehighroad to Rhenium, while another descendedfrom Venusia to Hcraclea on the gulf of Tarentum,and thence followed the K. coast of the Bruttianpeninsula. These lines are briefly noticed in thearticles Lucania and BitUTni, but they are veryconfused and uncertain. 4. From Beneventum by Canusium and Bariumto Brundusium. It waa this line of road, first constructed by Trajan,and which was originally distinguished as the ViaTkajana, that became after the time of that em­peror the frequented and ordinary route to Brundu­sium, and thus came to be commonly considered asthe Via Appia, of which it had in fact taken theplace. Its line is in consequence given in all theitineraries, and can be traced with little diiSculty.It passed at first through a rugged and mountainouscountry, as far as Aecae in Apulia, from which placeit was carried through the plains of Apulia to Ba­rium, and afterwards along the sea-coast to Brun­dusium; a line offering no natural difficulties, andwhich had the advantage of pasting through anumber of considerable towns. Even before theconstruction of the Via Trajana it was not uncom­mon (as we learn from the journey of Horace) fortravellers to deviate from the Appian Way, and gainthe plains of Apulia as speedily as possible. The first part of this mad from Beneventum toAecae may be traced by the assistance of ancientmilestones, bridges, Ac. (Momnisen, Topogr. dcgliIrpini, in the Bulkt. dtlC /tut. Arch, for 1848,pp. 6, 7.) It proceeded by the villages of 7'odWi,Buonalbergo, and Camlburt, to a place called 8.Eleuterio, about 2 miles S. of Castel/ranco, whichwas undoubtedly the site of Equus Tuticus, a muchdisputed point with Italian topographers- [EquusTiTICfs.] This is correctly [laced by the Anto­nine Itinerary 21 miles from Beneventum ; the Je­rusalem Itinerary, which makes it 22 miles, dividesthe distance at a station called Forum Novum, whichmust have been situated at or very near Btumalbergo.From Equua Tuticus, the road followed a NE.direction to Aecae (the aite of which is clearlyknuwn as that of the modern Troja), and thenceturned in a direction nearly due E. to Herdonia(OrdWi). The object of this great bend was pro­bably to open a communication with Luceria and theother towns of Northern Apulia, as well as perhapsto avoid the defile of the Cerroro, above Borino,through which the modern road passes. At Aecaethe Via Trajana descended into the great plain ofApulia, across which it was carried in a nearly