OCR Output CHAP. L. . 311 the Gospel. But the mild tenor of the evangelic stylemay explain an ambiguous text, that Jesus did not bringpeace on the earth, but a sword: his patient and humblevirtues should not be confounded with the intolerant,zeal of princes and bishops, who have disgraced thename of his disciples. In the prosecution of religiouswar, Mahomet might appeal with more propriety to theexample of Moses, of the judges and the kings of Israel.The military laws of the Hebrews are still more rigidthan those of the Arabian legislator.1 The Lord of hostsmarched in person before the Jews: if a city resistedtheir summons, the males, without distinction, were putto the sword : the seven nations of Canaan were devotedto destruction; and neither repentance nor conversioncould shield them from the inevitable doom, that nocreature within their precincts should be left alive. Thefair option of friendship, or submission, or battle, wasproposed to the enemies of Mahomet. If they professedthe creed of Islam, they were admitted to all the tempo­ral and spiritual benefits of his primitive disciples, andmarched under the same banner to extend the religionwhich they had embraced. The clemency of the pro­phet was decided by his interest; yet he seldom tram­pled on a prostrate enemy: and he seems to promise,that, on the payment of a tribute, the least guilty of hisunbelieving subjects might be indulged in their wor­ship, or at least in their imperfect faith. In the firstmonths of his reign, he practised the lessons of holywarfare, and diplayed his white banner before the gatesof Medina; the martial apostle fought in person at ninebattles or sieges ;k and fifty enterprises of war were 1 The tenth andtwentieth chapters of Deuteronomy ,with the practical commentsof Joshua, David, &e. are read with more awe than satisfaction by the pious Chris­tians of the present age. But the bishops, as well as the rabbles of former times,have beat the drum-ecclesiastic with pleasure and success. (Sale's PreliminaryDiscourse, p. 142,143.) k Abulfeda, in ViJ. Moharn. p. 156. The private arsenal of the apostle consistedof nine swords, three lances, seven pikes or half-pikes, a quiver and three bow9,seven cuirasses, three shields, and two helmets, (Gagnier, torn. 3. p. 328—334.)