OCR Output am. 727.] 353 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the priests and the LeviteB. The king alsomade garners and receptacles lor these fruits,and distributed them to every one of thepriests and Levites, and to their wives andchildren. And thus did they return to theirold form of divine worship. Now when theking had settled these matters after themanner already described, he made warupon the Philistines, and defeated them, andpossessed himself of all their cities, fromGaza to Gath. And when the king of Assyriagent to him, threatening to overturn all hisdominions, unless he would pay him the tri­bute which his father paid formerly, Heze­kiah was not alarmed; but depended on hispiety towards God, by whom he inquired,and accurately knew all future events. Andthus much shall suffice for the present con­cerning king Hezekiah. CHAP. XIV. OP THE REDUCTION OF SAMARIA BY SHALMANE9ER, ANDTHE REMOVAL OF THE TEN TRIBES INTO MEDIA. WHEN Shalmaneser, king of Assyria,was informed that Hoshea had sentErivately to So, the king of Egypt, desiringis assistance against him, he was veryangry; and made an expedition against Sa­maria, in the seventh year of the reign ofHoshea. And on being refused admittanceinto the city, he besieged Samaria threeyears,* and took it by mere force, in theninth year of the reign of Hoshea, and in theseventh of Hezekiah king of Jerusalem; andquite demolished the government of the Is­raelites, and transplanted all the people intoMedia and Persia; among whom he tookking Hoshea alive; and when he had removedthese people out of their land, he transplantedother nations out of a place called Cuthah,into Samaria, and into the country of theIsraelites. So the tten tribes of the Israeliteswere removed out of Judea, nine hundredand forty-seven years after their forefathers came out of the land of Egypt, and possessedthemselves of this country; but eight hundredyears after Joshua had been their leader;and two hundred and forty years, sevenmonths, and seven days, after they had re­volted from Rehoboam, the grandson ofDavid, and had given the kingdom to Jero­boam. And such a conclusion overtook theIsraelites, when they had transgressed thelaws, and would not hearken to the prophets,who foretold that this calamity would comeupon them, if they would not leave off theirtransgressions. What gave birth to thesedoings, was that sedition which they raisedagainst Rehoboam, the grandson of David;when they set up his servant Jeroboam to betheir king; who by sinning against God, andbringing them to imitate his bad example,made God to be their enemy; while himselfunderwent that punishment he justly de­served. And now the king of Assyria invaded allSyria and Phoenicia in a hostile manner. Thename of this king is also set down in the ar­chives of Tyre; for he made an expeditionagainst Tyre in the reign of Eluleus. AndMenander attests to it; who, when he wrotehis Chronology, and translated the archivesof Tyre into the Greek language, gives us thefollowing history: "One whose name wasEluleus reigned thirty-six years: the king,upon the revolt of the Citteans, sailed tothem and reduced them again to submission.Against these did the king of Assyria send anarmy, and in a hostile manner over-ran allPhoenicia; but soon made peace with them,and returned back. But Sidon and Ace Pa-loetyrus revolted, and many other cities therewere which delivered themselves up to theking of Assyria. Accordingly when the Ty-rians would not submit to him, the king re­turned, and fell upon them again; while thePhoenicians had furnished him with sixtyships, and eight hundred men to row them.And when the Tyrians had come upon them * This siege of Samaria, though not given a particularaccount of either in our Hebrew or Greek Bibles, or inJosephus, was so very long; no less than three years;that it is no way improbable but that parents, and particu­larly mothers, might therein be reduced to eat their ownchildren, as the law of Moses had threatened upon theirdisobedience, Levit. xxvi. 29. Deut. xxviii. 53—57. andas was accomplished in the other shorter sieves of boththe capital cities, Jerusalem, and Samaria; the former mentioned, Jer. xix. 9. Lam. ii. 20. iv. 10. Antiq. IX. 4.Of the War, VI. 3, 4. the latter mentioned, 2 Kings vi.26—29. See my Boyle's Lectures, page 209—214. t That our Chronology is certain, as far backward asthis captivity of the ten tribes; and that to a single year,during the interval of 2456 years, see demonstrated fromthe sabbatical years, in the Supplement to the LiteralAccomplishment of the Prophecies, page 75.