OCR Output 272 ROMAN EMPIRE. their keenest satire against a despicable race, they af­firmed, in the bitterness of reproach, that the men knewnot how to give, nor the women to deny.' The Examples . • •,• i • i • i i «i of genero- same hospitality, which was practised by Abra-81ty' ham and celebrated by Homer, is still renewed inthe camps of the Arabs. The ferocious Bedoweens, theterror of the desert, embrace, without inquiry or hesita­tion, the stranger who dares to confide in their honourand to enter their tent. His treatment is kind and respect-'ful; he shares the wealth or the poverty of his host: and,after a needful repose, he is dismissed on his way, withthanks, with blessings, and perhaps with gifts. Theheart and hand are more largely expanded by the wantsof a brother or a friend; but the heroic acts that coulddeserve the public applause, must have surpassed thenarrow measure of discretion and experience. A dis­pute had arisen, who, among the citizens of Mecca,was entitled to the prize of generosity, and a successiveapplication was made to the three who were deemedmost worthy of the trial. Abdallah, the son of Abbas,had undertaken a distant journey, and his foot was inthe stirrup, when he heard the voice of a suppliant,—O son of the uncle of the apostle of God, I am a travel­ler and in distress! He instantly dismounted to presentthe pilgrim with his camel, her rich caparison, and apurse of four thousand pieces of gold, excepting onlythe sword, either for its intrinsic value, or as the gift ofan honoured kinsman. The servant of Kais informedthe second suppliant that his master was asleep; buthe immediately added, Here is a purse of seven thou­sand pieces of gold (it is all we have in the house), andhere is an order, that will entitle you to a camel and aslave: the master, as soon as he awoke, praised andenfranchised his faithful steward with a gentle reproof,that, by respecting his slumbers, he had stinted hisbounty. The third of these heroes, the blind Arabah, 1 Sale's Preliminary Discourse, p. 29, 30.