OCR Output C. II.] TOWER OF ANTONIA. 247 were Malachias, and Judas the son of Merto, and James theson of Sosas, the commander of the Idumeans; and of thezealots two brethren, Simon and Judas, the sons of Jairus. CHAPTER II. DOW TITUS GAVE ORDERS TO DEMOLISH THE TOWER OF AN­TONIA, AND THEN PERSUADED JOSEPHUS TO EXHORT THEJEWS AGAIN [TO A SURRENDER.] § 1. And now Titus gave order to his soldiers that werewith him to dig up the foundations of the tower of Antonia,and make him a ready passage for his army to come up;whilst he himself had Josephus brought to him (for he hadbeen informed that on that very day, which was the seven­teenth1 day of Panemus [Tamuz,] the sacrifice called thedaily sacrifice had failed, and had not been offered to God,for want of men to offer it, and that the people were griev­ously troubled at it,) and commanded him to say the samethings to John that he had said before, that, " if he had anymalicious inclination for fighting, he might come out with asmany of his men as he pleased, in order to fight without thedanger of destroying either his city or temple; but that hedesired he would not defile the temple, nor thereby offendagainst God: that he might, if he pleased, offer the sacrificeswhich wore now discontinued, by any of the Jews whom hoshould pitch upon. Upon this Josephus stood in such a placewhere he might be heard, not by John only, but by manymore, and then declared to them what Caesar had given him 1 This was a remarkable day indeed, the 17th of Panemus [Tamuz,] A. D.70, when, according to Daniel's prediction, 006 years before, the Romans,ia half a week, caused the sacrifice and oblation to cease, Dan. ix. 27. For fromthe month of February, A. D. 66, about which time Vespasian entered onthis war, to this very time, was just three years and a half. See Bp. Lloyd'sTables of Chronology, published by Mr. Marshall, on this year. Nor is it tobe omitted what very nearly confirms this duration of the war, that fouryears before the war began was somewhat above seven years and five monthsbefore the destruction of Jerusalem, ch. v. sect. 3.