OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 41 However, these four went along with them, and conducted themas far as Jericho, which is not far from Jerusalem, and return­ed to Samaria. 3. Hereupon king Ahaz having been so thoroughly beaten bythe Israelites, sent to Tiglath-Pileser, king of the Assyrians,and sued for assistance from him in his war against the Israel­ites, and Syrians, and Damascenes, with a promise to send himmuch money; he sent him also great presents at the same time.Now this king, upon the reception of those ambassadors, cameto «ssist Ahaz, and made war upon the Syrians, and laid theircountry waste, and took Damascus by force, and slew Rezintheir king, and transplanted the people of Damascus into theupper Media, and brought a colony of Assyrians, and plantedthem in Damascus. He also afflicted the land of Israel, andtook many captives out of it. While he was doing thus withthe Syrians, king Ahaz took all the gold that was in the king'streasures, and the silver, and what was in the temple of God,and what precious gifts were there, and he carried them withhim, and came to Damascus, and gave it to the king of Assy­ria, according to his agreement. So he confessed that he owedhim thanks for all they had done for him, and returned to Jeru­salem. Now this king was so sottish, and thoughtless of whatwas for his own good, that he would not leave off worshippingthe Syrian gods when he was beaten by them, but he went onin worshipping them, as though they would procure him thevictory: and when he was beaten again he began to honourthe gods of the Assyrians; and he seemed more desirous tohonour any other gods than his own paternal and true God,whose anger was the cause of his defeat; nay, he proceeded tosuch a degree of despite and contempt [of God's worship],that he shut up the temple entirely, and forbade them to bringin their appointed sacrifices, and took away the gifts that hadbeen given to it. And when he -had offered these indignitiesto God, he died, having lived thirty-six years, and of themreigned sixteen; and he left his son Hezekiah for his successor. CHAP. XIII. HowPeJcah died by the treachery of Hoshea, who was a little af-ter subdued by Shalmaneser: And how Hezekiah reigned in­stead of Ahaz ; and what actions of piety and justice he did. J 1. ABOUT the same tune, Pekah, the king of Israel, died,by the treachery of a friend of his, whose name was Hoshea,who retained the kingdom nine years time, but was a wicked