OCR Output 524 rALAESTINA. FALAESTIKA. which circumstance its name is derived. It receivesin) animal body; bulls ami camels float in it; andthis is the origin of the report that nothing sinksin it. In length it exceeds 100 miles; its greatestbreadth is 25 miles, its least C. On the east of itlies Arabia Nomadum, on the south Macherus, for­merly the second fortress of Judaea alter Jerusalem.On the same side there is situated a hot- sprint;,possessing medicinal properties, named Callirrhoe,indicating by its name the virtues of its waters."(//;.<( XaL fib. v. 16.) The last author who will be here cited is Tacitus,whose account may he given in the original. lieappears in this, as in other passages, to havedrawn largely on Josephus, hut had certainly con-Milted other writers. He wrote a. p. 97. "Lncus immensoainbitu, specie maris, sapore cor­rupter, gravitate odoris aeeolis pestifer, nequeventojmpellitur, neque piscesaut suet as aquis volucres pati-tur. Incertae undae : superjacta, ut solido. 1'erunt: pe- irili imperitique nandi perinde attolluntur. Certoanni, bitumen egerit: eujus legendi usum, ut cetcnisartes, experientia d-jcuit. Ater suaptt* natura liquor,et sparso accto coneretus, innatat: hunc manu cap-tum, quibus ea cura, in Minima navis trahunt. Inde,iiullo juvante, inHuit, oneratque, donee abscindas:nec abscindere acre ferrovc possis: fugit cruoremvestemque infectam sanguine, quo feminae ]*r mensesexsolvuntur: sic veteres auctores. Sed gnari lo-eorum tradunt, undautes bitumine moles pelli, ma-nuque trahi ad littus: mox, ubi vapore terrae, solisinaruerint securibus cuneisque, ut trabes aut saxa,discindi. Haud proculinde campi, quos ferunt olimuberes, magnisque urbibus tiabitatos, fulminum jactuai^i>se: et manere vestigia, terramque ipsam si>ecietorridam, vim frugiferam perdidisse. Nam cum tasponte edita, aut manu sata, sive herba tenus aut flore,sen solitam in speciem adolevere, atra et iuania velutin cinerem vanescunt Ego sieut inclvtas quondamiirbes igne coelcsti flagrasse concesserim, ita halitulacus infiei terrain, eorrumpi su[*rfusuin spiritum,eoque foetus segetum et autumni putresceie reor,s<i]o rocloque juxt.i gravi." (Hist. v. 6.) This sea is sulwquently noticed by Galen (a. d.16-1) and Pausanhis (cir. a. i>. 174). but their ac­counts are evidently borrowed from some of thoseabove cited from Greek, Jewish, and Latin writers;in illustration of whose statements reference willnow he made to modern travellers, who have hadbetter opportunities of testing the truth than werepresented to them; and it will appear that thosestatements, even in their most marvellous particu­lars, are wonderfully trustworthy; and that the hy­potheses by which they endeavoured to account forthe phenomena of this extraordinary lake are con­tinued by the investigations of modern science. 1. General Remarks,— It is deeply to he regrettedthat the results arrived at by the American explor­ing expedition, under Lieut. Lynch, have been givento the world only in the loo*e, unsystematic andthoroughly unsatisfactory notes scattered throughthe personal narrative published by that officer; andthat his official report to his government has notbeen made available for scientific purposes. The fewmeagre facta worth chronicling have been extractedin a number of the Bibliotheea Sacra, from whichthey are here copied. (Vol. v. p. 767, and vol. vii,p. 396.) The distance in a straight line from thefountain '.4iii-el-Ftskkhah, on the west, directlyacross to the eastern shore, was nearly 8 statutemiles. The soundings gave 690 feet as the greatest depth. Another line was run diagonally fn*asame point to the south-east, to a chain) fcnuaf ttaoutlet of the hot-springs of Callirrhoe. The \t*\mof tlte northern half of the sea is almost an er.tinplain. Its meridional lines at a short d*ULafrom the shore scarce vary in depth. The <lfTpeisoundings thus far are 188 fathoms, or II SB MNear the shore the bottom is generally an inn-ustation of salt; but the intermediate one is wn\ •!:!many rectangular crystals, mostly cul«s» ff pwsalt. The southern half ot the sea i* as shallow ithe northern one is deep, and for a boat one-ft«ft b <its entire length the depth does not exceed 3 u\maor 18 feet. Its southern lwd presented no crr»:aabut the shores are lined with incrustations of mi Thus, then, the bottom of the Dead .V* farm t»submerged plains, an elevated and a depressed <aThe first, its southern part, of slimy mud a>vwiby a shallow bay: the last, its northern and Wr*jHirti'tn, of mud with incrustations and rntasjolcrystals of salt, at a great depth, with a iu-tiravine running through it, corresponding with ubed of the river Jordan at one extremity a^l tl Wady-el-Jrib at the other. The opposite st*rof the peninsula and tiie west coast present eitiemarks of disruption. 2. Dimensions. — It will have been seen thai iancient authorities differ widely as to the snethe sea: Diodorus stating it at 5iH> stadia by 4Pliny at 100 milt's in length, by 25 m.les mwidest, and 6 miles in its narrowest part; J«**jiat 280 stadia by 150. Strabo's measure er+x*belongs to tlie SirUjiiis Lac us. with which t* afounded the I>ead Sea, and is copied from 1>,od ndescription of that lake. Of these rneasnna 1earliest, viz. that of DiodoTOS, conies wanSmodern measurement. W'c have seen that a arrayline from 'Ain-el-Ftshkhah to the east shi n asured nearly 8 statute miles: from 'Aim Jh*w cimacross to the mouth of the Anion the di*:*u»iabout 9 statute miles. The length of the <*a 4not seem to have been measured by the An»-nribut tlie near agreement ot their actual mee*e*vflof the width with the computation of Dr. K*t-Jmay give credit to his estimate of the letrrii <Bis observations resulted in fixing the bnaddthe sea at 'Ain Jithf at about 9 geographical xand the length about 39,— Ain Jiiiy beingnearly at the middle point oi" the meters a{Bib. Res. vol. ii. p. 217.) 3. Soilness and i>pectjic Grijrify. —. Its *isive saltness, noticed by Joseph us, is «oni«all travellers; and is indicated by the pr«--«atcrystals of salt in profusion over the t»-d -Jsea, — "at one time Stellwagen's lead brc«£bnothing but crystals,"—as well as l>v the daof rock-salt at the south-west quarter of ih*where the American officers diseorenesi ■ a Iround pillar, standing detached from the r*mass, composed of solid salt, capped with » -of lime, cylindrical in front and pvramidal 'jwabout 40 feet high, resting on a kind of eradestal from 40 to 60 feet above th« ievri asea." (Lynch, JCxjxdition, p. 3o7.) In the statbay of the sea, where the water eDcna*£«ior less according to the season, it *2riv*shallows and small pools, which in the nd ja SJilt as tine and as well bleach**!, xa mtstances, as that in regular salt-fans. In tbvwhere the salt water stagnates ai»d evapors;^and A Ling lea "found several |>enHms> evrx: