OCR Output BOOk in. 387 ?H> 9. Inliumana securitas. Inhuman indifference. Cf. note, 2, ^O.jgg 10. Velut.... accederet. As if this pleasure also (sc. of see­ing the fight) were added to the usual entertainments of these festivedays. The punctuation of the last clause is different in different edi­tions, some placing a semicolon after exsvltabant, others after frue-bantur, and others still, allowing no such pause. Exsultahant impliesmore outward demonstrations of pleasure; fruebantur, inward enjoy­ment. Imagination never portrayed a more vivid and moving pictureof mingled ferocity and voluptuousness than the pen of our historianhas sketched. Its credibility has been called in question. But Florus(3, 21) affirms the same of the civil war between Marius and Sylla.The last grievous calamity that befell the Romans, was a war wagedby parricides within the walls of Rome, in which citizens were engagedagainst citizens with the rage of gladiators exhibiting a spectacle in theforum. Ch. LXXXIV.—13. Oppugnatione castrorum. The camp ofthe praetorian guards, a little way out of the city, where it was firstlocated by Sejanus in the time of Tiberius. Ann. 4,2. Cf. Diet . Antiq.sub voce, Praetoriani, and note, 1, 39: vocibus in urbem. 21. Becipiantur, sc. castra. The veteres cohortes, i. e. the oldpraetorians discharged by Vitellius, might with special propriety speakof retaking their old camp. 24. Suprema .... solatia. These words are in appos. with in-quietare, morari and foedare, all which depend ou amplectebantur;these acts of vengeance were the last solace of the conquered. Ernestiunderstands by suprema ... solatia their wives and children! 2T. Contrariis vuineribus. With wounds in front. Versi inhoslem (a superfluous clause in the view of some), gives the cause olthis: since they faced the enemy to the last. So Wr. Ch. LXXXV.—30. Sellula. Dim. of sella, on which see note,1,27. 31. Diem stands opposed to noctu understood, when he wouldhave fled to Tarracina, had he escaped the peculiar dangers of theday. 3T. Pudenda latebra. A dog's kennel, according to Xiph. 65,20 ; according to Suet. Vitel. 16, the porter's lodge. 3. E .. . mllltibus. Doubtless one of the emperor's body-guard. JijjJ 4. Per iram, etc. T. here adverts to three distinct suppositions: 1. That the soldier aimed a hostile blow at Vitellius out of resentment; 2. That he did it out of compassion, to rescue him from further insults; 3. That the blow was intended for the tribune. According to Xiph.65, 21, the soldier said, I will give you the best assistance in my pow­er, and thereupon he stabbed Vitellius and dispatched himself. 11. Una vox. Al. vox una. Una vox has the authority of allthe MSS. and lays the emphasis, where it belongs, on the number.