OCR Output 140 THE DECLINE AND FALL cc Murder ofCaracalla.A. D. 217.8 th March. army, and to esteem the rest of his subjects as of little moment,7."But the liberality of the father had been restrained by prudence,and his indulgence to the troops tempered by firmness and autho­rity. The careless profusion of the son was the policy of one reign,and the inevitable ruin both of the army and of the empire. The vi­gour of the soldiers, instead of being confirmed by the severe disci­pline of camps, melted away in the luxury of cities. The exces­sive increase of their pay and donatives58 exhausted the state toenrich the military order, whose modesty in peace, and service inwar, is best secured by an honourable poverty. The demeanor ofCaracalla was haughty and full of pride; but with the troops lieforgot even the proper dignity of his rank, encouraged their inso­lent familiarity, and neglecting the essential duties of a general, af­fected to imitate the dress and manners of a common soldier. It was impossible that such a character, and such a conduct aathat of Caracalla, could inspire either love or efleem; but as longas his vices were beneficial to the armies, he was secure from thedanger of rebellion. A secret conspiracy, provoked by his own jea­lousy, was fatal to the tyrant. The Prætorian præfecture was di­vided between two ministers. The military department was in­trusted to Adventus, an experienced rather than an able soldier; andthe civil affairs were transacted by Opilius Macrinus, who, by hisdexterity in business, had raised himself, with a fair character, tothat high office. But his favour varied with the caprice of the emrperor, and his life might depend on the slightest suspicion, or themost casual circumstance. Malice or fanaticism had suggested to anAfrican, deeply skilled in the knowledge of futurity, a very dan­gerous prediction, that Macrinus and his son were destined to reignover,the empire. The report was soon diffused through the pro­vince; and when the man was sent in chains to Rome, he stillasserted, in the presence of the præfect of the city, the faith of hisprophecy. That magistrate, who had received the most pressing instructions