OCR Output 350 JONATHAN. [B. Til. 2. Now Catullus easily admitted of these his calumnies,and aggravated matters greatly, and made tragical exclama­tions, that he might also be supposed to have had a hand inthe finishing of the Jewish war. But what was still harder,he did not only give a too easy belief to his stories, but hetaught the Sicarii to accuse men falsely. He bid this Jona­than, therefore, to name one Alexandei a Jew (with whomhe had formerly had a quarrel, and openly professed that hehated him ;) he also got him to name his 'vife Bernice as con­cerned with him. These two Catullus ordered to, be slain inthe first place; nay, after them he caused all the rich andwealthy Jews to be slain, being no fewer in all than threethousand. This he thought ho might do safely, because heconfiscated their effects, and added them to Caesar's revenues. 3. Nay, indeed, lest any Jews that lived elsewhere shouldconvict him of this villany, he extended his false accusationsfarther, and persuaded Jonathan and certain others that werecaught with him, to bring an accusation of attempts for inno­vation against the Jews that were of the best character bothat Alexandria and at Rome. One of these against whomthis treacherous accusation was laid was Josephus, the writerof these books. However, this plot, thus contrived by Ca­tullus, did not succeed according to his hopes; for though hecame himself to Rome, and brought Jonathan and his com­panions along with him in bonds, and thought he should havehad no farther inquisition made as to those lies that wereforged under his government or by his means; yet did Ves­pasian suspect the matter, and make an inquiry how far itwas true. And when he understood that the accusation laidagainst the Jews was an unjust one, he cleared them of thecrimes charged upon them, and this on account of Titus'sconcern about the matter, and brought a deserved punish­ment upon Jonathan; for he was first tormented and thenburnt alive. 4. But as to Catullus, the emperors were so gentle to him,that he underwent no severer condemnation at this time: yetwas it not long before he fell into a complicated and almostincurable distemper, and died miserably. He was not only