OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 108 they loudly complained of the timid, though jealous chap.policy, of detaining their ambassadors, and denying xxxv-the arms which they had been allowed to purchase inthe capital of the empire*. Perhaps the apparent change in the dispositions of Embassiesthe emperors may be ascribed to the embassy which Turks andwas received from the conquerors of the Avars. The A°rT569immense distance which eluded their arms could not —582-extinguish their resentment: the Turkish ambassa­dors pursued the footsteps of the vanquished to theJaik, the Volga, mount Caucasus, the Euxine, andConstantinople, and at length appeared before thesuccessor of Constantine, to request that he wouldnot espouse the cause of rebels and fugitives. Evencommerce had some share in this remarkable negotia­tion: and the Sogdoites, who were now the tributariesof the Turks, embraced the fair occasion of opening,by the north of the Caspian, a new road for the im­portation of Chinese silk into the Roman empire.The Persian, who preferred the navigation of Ceylon,had stopped the caravans of Bochara and Samarcand:their silk was contemptuously burnt: some Turkishambassadors died in Persia, with a suspicion of poison;and the great khan permitted his faithful vassal Ma-niach, the prince of the Sogdoites,. to propose, at theByzantine court, a treaty of alliance against theircommon enemies. Their splendid apparel and richpresents, the fruit of Oriental luxury, distinguishedManiach and his colleagues from the rude savagesof the north: their letters, in the Scythian characterand language, announced a people who had attainedthe rudiments of science t: they enumerated the con- • The embassies and first conquests of the Avars may be read in Menander(Excerpt. Legat . p. 99, 100, 101. 154, 155), Theophanes (p. 196), theHistoriaMiscella (1 . xvi. p. 109), and Gregory of Tours (1. iv. c. 23.29, in the Historiansof France, tom. ii. p. 214. 217). f The Russians have found characters, rude hieroglyphics, on the Irtish andYenisei, on medals, tombs, idols, rocks, obelisks, &e. (Strahlenberg, Hist, ofSiberia, p. 324. 346. 406. 429). Dr. Hyde (de Religione Veterum Persarum, H 4