OCR Output SAMOTMRACE. 901 SAMOTHRACE. /tM river and a safe asylum on the western side."i v lente ww therefore instructed to seize and bold»-**ion of Samoiata. (£. J. Tii. 7. § 1.) Thism gave birth to Lucian, and became infamous inthird century in connection with the heretical•top * Paul of Samosata," who first broached them%f of the simple humanity of our Lord; and wastlmmed in a council assembled at Antioch (a. d."J. Eweb. U. E. vii. 27, 28). The modern namef the town is Semptai or Samitat, about 40 miles. «f the cataracts of the Euphrates, where it passesEnat Taurus, but Pococke could hear of no ruinsxre. (Utterraliont on Syria, vol. ii. pt 1, p.Si) [G.W.] CODI or SAMOSATA. SAMOTHRACE, SAMOTHRA'CA, or SAMO-IEAC1A (20*00(4x71: Elk. 2an66pa(; 2ouo-fc» in Herodotus, who uses the adjective Sa/xo-hnwt, mad calls the inhabitants 2a)io9pi)iK's. In■7 (iv. 23) we find the form Samothrace; in thek Aut (p. 522, Wess.), Samothraca; in Livya IS, SO, xlir. 45, 46), both Samotbraca andi«aracia. Properly it is "the Thracian Samoa."f Uomer calls it sometimes 2d/ior QfniiKirj,minaa simply Zomos. Hence the line in Virgila. vii. SOU): Pirnriamqae Samum quae nunc Samothraciaiertnr- tte modern Greeks it is called Samothraki, and2 alao Samandraki (is to /xavopaxi), which isl? a oocmption of the other, formed in ignorance,• :be analii^j of Stamboul and Stalimni,—|iav-t dnsoting "a aheepfold"). An island in thei c? the Aegaean, opposite the mouth of the He-,tai lying N. of Imbrus, and NE. of Lemnos.bstaace from the coast of Thrace is estimated atri.es by Pliny (L c). who says its circuit is 32i. It is of an oval shape, and, according to theMh aorrrr, 8 miles in length and 6 in breadth,■s traditionally said to hare been diminished ino consequence) of an outburst of waters fromBc^eapatit; and perhaps some great physicalfm took place in this part of the Aegaean at nomnoce period. (See Admiral Smyth's Medi-■vm, pp. 74, 119.) However this may be, Sa-taci ia remarkable for its extreme elevation. Nox the north of the Archipelago is so conspicu-unpt 1ft. At ho*; and no island in the wholej$*Ia£o ia so high, except Candia. The eleva­te the highest point, called Saoce by Pliny (I.e.),rked 5240 fact in the Admiralty Chart (No.) The geographical position of this point (ther> name of which is ML Fagarte) is 40° 26'L JaL, and 25° 36' 23" E. long. Though therenrrxl enchorajres on the coast of Samothrace,m an entire absence of good harbours, a circum-r a harmony with the expression of Pliny, who'L-ipiTtTtrinif im» omnium.'' Scylax, however (p. 280, ed. Gail), mentions a port, which possihlywas identical with the harbour Demetrium spoken ofby Livy. The ancient city (of the same name asthe island) was on the north, in the place markedPataepolit on the chart. The common name of the Thracian and the IonianSamos was the occasion of speculation to Strabo andPausanias. The latter (vii. 4. § 3) says that theThracian island was colonised by emigrants fromthe other. The former (x. pp. 457, 472) mentionsa theory that it might be named from the Saii, apeople of Thrace. Scymnns Chius (692) says, thataid came from Samos to Samothrace in a timeof famine, and that this brought settlers fromthe Ionian to the Thracian Island. The truthseems to be, that a duos denotes any elevated landnear the sea, and that the name was thereforegiven to the island before us, as well as to others.[CBrHALLE.HA; Samos.] The earlier names of Sa­mothrace were Dardania, Electris, Melite, and Leu­cosis. Diodorns Siculus (v. 47) speaks of its in­habitants as Autochthons,and dwells on peculiaritiesof their language as connected with their religiousworship. The chief interest of this island is con­nected with the Cabeiiu. For these mysteriousdivinities we must refer to the Diet, of Biographyand Mythology. Pelasgians are said by Herodotus(ii. 51) to have first inhabited the island, and tohave introduced the mysteries. The lofty height of Samothrace appears in Homerin a very picturesque connection with the scenery ofTroy. He describes Poseidon as gazing from thisthrone on the incidents of the war: and travellersin the Troad have noticed the view of Samothracetowering over Imbros as a proof of the truthfulnessof the Iliad. Bearing in mind this geographicalaffinity (if we may so call it) of the mountain-topsof Saoce and Ida, we shall hardly be surprised to findScymnus Chins (678) calling Samothrace a Trojanisland (rijffM Tovurq). The tradition was thatDardanus dwelt there before he went to Troy, andthat he introduced the Cabeiric mysteries fromthence into Asia. A few detached points may be mentioned whichconnect this island with Greek and Roman history.Its inhabitants joined Xerxes in his expedition againstGreece; they are spoken of as skilful in the use ofthe javelin; and a Samothracian ship is said to havesunk an Athenian ship, and to have been sunk inturn by an Aeginetan one, at the battle of Salami*.(Herod, viii. 90.) At that time the Samothracianspossessed forts erected on the mainland. (Ib. vii.108.) Philip of Macedon and his wife Olympiaswere both initiated in the mysteries. It would seemthat such initiation was regarded as a preservationfrom danger. (Aristoph. Pax, 277, and SrhoL)Samothrace appears also to have had the rights ofasylum; for Perseus took refuge there, after he wasdefeated by the Remans in the battle of Pydna.(Liv. xlv. 6.) Germanicus sailed to the island withthe view of being initiated: bat he was preventedby an omen (Tac Ann. ii. 54.) St. Paul passedthe night at anchor here on bis first voyage fromAsia to Europe. (Acl>, xvi. 11.) In Pliny's timeSamothrace was a free state ((. c). In the Synecdemuswe find it, with Thasos, in the province of Illyricum.(Wess. p. 640.) In the later division described byConstant. Porphyrog. (De Them. p. 47, ed. Bonn)it is in the Thracian subdivision of the First Eu­ropean or Thracian Theme. Samothrace appears to have no modern history 3m 3