OCR Output 80 THE ANNAL9 (A. U. C. 769. by the sword, if Stertinius had not checked the im­petuosity of Flavius, who stood burning with resent­ment, and calling aloud for his horse and arms. Ar-minius behaved with equal fury, in his slorm ofpassion denouncing vengeance, and threatening* theissue of a battle. What he said was perfectly under­stood. He had commanded the auxiliaries of his coun­try, acting in conjunction with the legions, and, hav ingconversed in the Roman camp, was able to interlardhis discourse with Latin expressions. XI. On the following day, the Germans appearedon the other side of the Visurgis, drawn up in orderof battle. Germanicus, till he had thrown bridges overthe river, and made each pass secure, did not thinkit advisable to expose his legions to the hazard of anongagement. In the mean time, to cause a diversionof the enemy, he ordered the cavalry, under the con­duct of Stertinius, and jEmilius, one of the principalcenturions, to ford over at two different places. Ca-riovalda, at the head of his Batavians, advancedwhere the current was most rapid. The Cheruscansfeigned a flight. Cariovalda, pursuing with too mucheagerness, pushed on to a place encompassed withwoods, and fell into an ambuscade. The enemyrushed onto the attack with impetuous fury. Theybore down all who resisted, and pressed on such asgave way. The Batavians formed a ring, and weresurrounded on every side. The Germans, at a dis­tance, discharged a volley of darts, while some ofthem, more eager than the rest, fought hand to handin close engagement. Cariovalda sustained the shockwith undaunted valour. Finding himself, at length,in danger of being overpowered, he exhorted his mento form in platoons, and bravely opened a passagethrough the ranks of the enemy. He rushed forwardinto the heat of the action; but his horse being killed,he fell under a shower of darts, and died sword inhand. Several of the prime nobility of his countryperished with him. The rest found their safety ei­ther in their own valour or the timely succour ofStertinius aud iEniilhis, who came up with the cavalry. XII. Germanicus, in the mean lime, having passed