OCR Output Chap. XIII. ATmyvmES OF THE JEWS. 4S caught them, and slew them: nor did this degree of transgress­ing suffice them, but they had more wicked contrivances thanwhat have been described: Nor did they leave off, before God,as a punishment for their impiety, brought them under theirenemies; but of that more hereafter. However, many there wer»of the tribe of Manasseh, and of Zebulon, and of Issachar, wh<twere obedient to what the prophets exhorted .them to do, andreturned to the worship of God. Now all these came runningto Jerusalem^ to Hezekiah, that they might worship God[there]. 3. Where these men were come, king Hezekiah went up intothe temple, with the rulers' and all the people, and offered forhimself seven bulls, and as many rams, with seven lambs, and asmany kids of the goats. The king also himself, and the rulers,laid their hands on the heads of the sacrifices, and'perrnitted thapriests to complete the sacred offices about them. So they bothslew the sacrifices, and burnt the burnt-offerings, while the Le-vites stood round about them, with their musical instruments,and sang hymns to God, and played on their psalteries, as theywere instructed by David to do, and this while the rest of the;priests returned the music, and sounded the trumpets whichthey had in their hands : and when this was done, the king.andthe multitude threw themselves down upon their face and wor­shipped God; He also sacrificed seventy bulls, one hundredrams, and two hundred lambs. He also granted the multitudesacrifices to feast upon, six hundred oxen, and three thousandother cattle; and the priests performed all things according tothe law. Now'the king was so pleased herewith, that he feastedwith the people, and returned thanks to God: But as the feastof unleavened bread was now come, when they had offered thatsacrifice which is called the Passover, they after that offeredother sacrifices for seven days : When the king had bestowed onthe multitude, besides what they sanctified of themselves, twothousand bulls, and seven thousand other cattle, the same thingwas done by the rulers; for they gave them a thousand bulls,and a thousand and forty other cattle. Nor had this festivalbeen so well observed from the days of king Solomon, as it wasnow first" observed with great splendour and magnificence: andwhen the festival was ended, they went out into the country, andpurged it; and cleansed the city of all the pollution of the idols.The king also gave order that the daily sacrifice should be offer­ed, at his own charges, and according to the law ; and appoint­ed that the tythes, and the first fruits should be given by themultitude to the priests and Levites, that they might constantlyattend tipon divine service, and never be taken off from the wor­ship of God. Accordingly, the multitude brought together all VOL. II. I 17