OCR Output 190 LIVY. in the war in Samnium, under the proconsul LuciusVolumnius. The first encounter was supported, withstrength so equal on both sides, that had the Etruriansand Umbrians been present at the action, either in thefield or at the camp, in whichever place they mighthave employed their force, the Romans must have beendefeated. 28. However, although the victory was still unde­cided, Fortune not having declared in favor of eitherparty, yet the course of the fight was by no meanssimilar on both right and left wings. The Romans,under Fabius, rather repelled than offered assault; andthe contest was protracted until very late in the day;for their general knew very well that both Samnitesand Gauls were furious in the first onset; so that, toprevent their progress, was as much as could well beeffected. It was known, too, that in a longer disputethe spirits of the Samnites gradually flagged, and eventhe bodies of the Gauls, remarkably ill able to bearlabor and heat, became quite relaxed; and although intheir first efforts they were more than men, yet in their-last they were less than women. He therefore re­served the strength of his men, for the aforesaid rea­sons, until the time when the enemy were the morelikely to be worsted. Decius, more impetuous, asbeing in the prime of life and full flow of spirits, ex­erted his whole force to the utmost in the first encoun-«ter; and thinking the infantry not sufficiently power­ful, brought up the cavalry to their aid. Putting him­self at the head of a troop of young horsemen of distin­guished bravery, he besought those youths, the flowerof the army, to follow him, and charge the enemy :telling them ' they would reap a double share of gloryif the victory should commence on the left wing, andthrough their means.' Twice they compelled the Gal­lic cavalry to give way. At the second charge theyadvanced nearer, and were briskly engaged in themidst of the enemy's squadrons, when, by a method offighting to which they were utter strangers, they werethrowp into dismay. A number of the enemy, mounted