OCR Output 222 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEFHtTS. men, to the borders of Galilee, in order to watch the roads that ledfrom the country to the city Jerusalem, and gave him charge tolay hold of such as travelled with letters about them, to keep themen in bonds upon the place, but to send me the letters. 47. When I had laid these commands upon them, I gave themorders, and bid them to take their arms and bring three daysprovision with them, and be with me the next day. I also part­ed those that were about me into four parts, and ordained thoseof them that were most faithful to me to be a guard to my bo­dy. I also set over them centurions, and commanded them totake care that not a soldier which they did not know shouldmingle himself among them. Now, on the fifth day following,when I was at Gabaroth, I found the entire plain that was beforethe village full of armed men, who wer'e come out of Galilee toassist me : many others of the multitude, also, out of the village,ran along with me. But as soon as I had taken my place, andbegan to speak to them, they all made an acclamation, and call­ed me the benefactor and saviour of the country. And when Ihad made them my acknowledgements, and thanked them [fortheir affection to me], I also advised them to fight * with nobody, nor to spoil the country ; but to pitch their tents in theplain, and be content with their sustenance they had brought withthem ; for I told them I had a mind to compose these troubleswithout shedding any blood. Nowit came to pass, that on theverysame day those who were sent by John with letters, fell amongthe guards whom I appointed to watch the roads ; so the menwere themselves kept upon the place, as my orders were, but Igot the letters, which were full of reproaches and lies ; and 1 in­tended to fall upon these men, without saying a word of thesematters to any body. 48. Now, as soon as Jonathan and his companions heard ofmy coming, they took all their own friends, and John with them,and retired to the house of Jesus, which indeed was a large castle,and no way unlike a citadel; so they privately laid a bandof armed men therein, and shut all the other doors but one, whichthey kept open, and they expected that I should come out of theroad to them, to salute them. And indeed they had given or­ders to the armed men, that when I came they should let nobody besides rue come in, but should exclude others 5 as sup­posing that, by this means, they should easily get me under theirpower : but they were deceived in their expectation ; for I per­ceived » Josephus's directions to his soldiers here are much the same that John theBaptist gave, Luke, iii. 14. " Do Violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely," and be content with your wages." Whence Dr Hudson confirms this conjec­ture, that Josephus, in some things, was, even now, a follower of John the Baptist, which is no way improbable. See the note on sect. z.