OCR Output av. 396.] 419 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWa BOOK XII. Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Seventy Years. FROM THE DEATH OP ALEXANDER THE GREAT, TO THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEUS. CHAP. I. or THE TREACHEROUS SEIZURE OF JERUSALEM AND JUDEABV PTOLEMY, THE SON OF LAGUS; WHO CARRIED MANYOF THE JEWS THENCE, AND PLANTED THEM IN EGYPT. "¥T7"HEN Alexander king of Macedon,j j had put an end to the dominion ofthe Persians, and had settled the affairs inJudea after the aforementioned manner, heended his life. And as his government fellamong many, Antigonus obtained Asia; Se-leucus, Babylon; and of the other nationswhich were there, Lysimachus governed theHellespont; Cassander possessed Macedonia;and Ptolemy the son of Lagus seized uponEgypt. And while these princes ambitiouslystrove one against another, every one for hisown principality, it came to pass that therewere continually wars; and the cities weresufferers, and lost a great many of the inha­bitants in these times of distress: insomuchthat all Syria, by the means of Ptolemy theeon of Lagus, underwent the reverse of thatdenomination of Saviour which he then had.He also seized upon Jerusalem: and for thatend made use of deceit and treachery. Foras he came into the city on a sabbath day,as if he would offer sacrifice, he, without any trouble, gained the city: while the Jews didnot oppose him. For they did not suspecthim to be their enemy; and he gained it thus,because they were free from suspicion of him;and because on that day they were at restand quietness: and when he had gained it, heruled over it in a cruel manner. Nay, Aga-tharchides of Cnidus, who wrote the acts olAlexander's successors, reproaches us withsuperstition: as if we, by it, had lost ourliberty: where he says thus; "There is anation called the nation of the Jews; whoinhabit a city strong and great, named Jeru­salem. These men took no care, but let itcome into the hands of Ptolemy: as not will­ing to take arms: and thereby they submittedto be under a hard master, by reason oftheir unseasonable superstition." But whenPtolemy had taken a great many captives,both from the mountainous parts of Judea,and from the places about Jerusalem andSamaria; and the places near mount Geriz-zim; he led them all into *Egypt and settledthem there. And as he knew that the peopleof Jerusalem were fmost faithful in the ob­servance of oaths and covenants; and thisfrom the Janswer they made Alexander, whenhe sent an ambassage to them, after he had * The great number of these Jews ami Samaritans thatwere formerly carried into Egypt by Alexander, and nowby Ptolemy the son of Lagus, appeared afterwards in thevast multitude who, as we shall see presently, were soonransomed by Philadelphus, and by him made free, beforehe sent for the seventy-two interpreters; in the manygarrisons and other soldiers of that nation in Egypt in thefamous settlement of the Jews, and the number of thosesynagogues at Alexandria, long afterward, and in the ve­hement contention between the Jews and the Samaritansunder Pliilometor, about the place appointed for publicVOL. I.—NOS. 35 & 36. worship in the law of Moses; whether at the Jewish tem­ple of Jerusalem, or at the Samaritan temple at Gerizzim:of all which our author treats hereafter. And as to theSamaritans carried into Egypt under the same princes,Scahger supposes that those who have a great synagogue atCairo; as also those whom the Arabic geographer speaks of,as having seized on an island in the Red Sea, are remainsof them at this very day; as the notes here informs us. t Of the sacredness of oaths among the Jews in the OldTestament, see Scripture Politics, page 54—65. J See Book XI. chap. 8. 3Z