OCR Output SlISUDATA. 1051 SYAGRdfc PROM. «ts, (here seems to Iihtc been no city of im-■■laiice in Snsiana, excepting Sasa itself. [V.] STSUDATA (XowrovftdTa), a place in the south-rf Germany, probably in the country inhabitedf (he Silingae, at the foot of the Vandalici Monte*.i*wL u. 11. § 28.) Its exact site cannot be ascer-md. [L. S.] HJIUUL, t town and fortress in the interior ofimiidia, where Jugurtha had a treasury. (Sail..,.37.) [T.H.D.] SUTBIUM (loirptov: Fth. Sutriensis: Sutri),atj of Etruria, situated in the southern part ofba country. 32 miles from Rome, on the line ofw Via Cassia. There is no doubt that it wasi inrient Etruscan site, but apparently a smallma, and in all probability a mere dependency ofit of its more powerful neighbours. It was notII after the fall of Veil that the Romans carriedssr arms as far as Sutrium, which they firstvk.il in B. c. 391, with what success is uncertainMod. xiv. 98); but it must hare fallen into theiroris either in that or the following year, as wetl it in a state of dependency on Rome immediatelyha the Gaulish invasion. (Liv. vi. 3.) The veryv after that event (it. c. 389) the neighbouringInucans laid siege to Sutrium with a large force;»city fell into their hands, but was recovered (as • tradition related) by the dictator Camillus on • mm day. (Liv. vi. 3; Diod. xiv. 117.) Verywly the same story is told again in B. c. 385,in tbe city was half taken by the Etruscans, butwered by Camillas and Valerius. (Liv. vi. 9.) doubtless with a view to guard against thepetition of these surprises that two years after-irii Sotrium received a Roman colony, B. c. 383«ll. PaL i. 14), and henceforth became, in con-Brtioa with the neighbouring Nepete, one of thesa'pal frontier fortresses of the Roman terri-J on this side; hence Livy terms it "claustraBjriae." (Liv. ix. 32.) We do not find anyiw[timt mention of it in history till B. c. 311,■a the Etruscans again laid siege to the city& their united forces, but were defeated in a■t battle under its walls by Acmilius Barbnla.i. L e.) The next year (a. c. 310) they were • to renew the siege at the opening of the cam-rn. but were once more defeated by the consulFabius Maximus, and took refuge in the Ci-i:n forest, which lay only a few miles distant,i 33, 35.) But this barrier was now for theI t:me passed by the Roman arms, and hence-a the wars with the Etruscans were transferredi mure northerly region. From this time, there-, we hear bat little of Sutrium, which was, how.', still for a time the outpost of the Roman powerilie side of Etruria. (Liv. x. 14.) Its namerxt mentioned after a long interval during thend Punic War, as one of the Coloniae Latinae,lb, in B. c. 209, declared their iuability to bearlonger the burdens of the war. It was in con-mce punished at a later period by the impositiontill heavier contributions. (Liv. xxvii. 9, xxix.i Its territory was one of those in which per-uon was given to the exiled citizens of Capua toa. (Id. xiTt. 34.) atrium continued under the Roman governmentr a small and unimportant country town: it isnois again mentioned in history, at the out-k of tin Perusian War (b. c. 41), when it waspied by Agrippa, in order to cut off the commu-lioos of Lucius Antonius with Rome. (Appian, B. C. v. 31.) But its position on the Cassion Waypreserved it from falling into decay, like so many ofthe Etruscan cities, under the Roman Empire: it isnoticed by all the geographers, and its continuedexistence down to the close of the Western Empireis proved by inscriptions as well as the Itineraries.We learn that it received a fresh colony underAugustus, in consequence of which it bears in inscrip­tions the titles " Colonia Julia Sutrina." (Strab. v.p. 226; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; PtoL iii. 1. § 50; Ilin. Ant.p. 286; Tab. Pent; Lib. CuL p. 217; Gruter, Inter.p. 302. 1; Zumpt, de Col. p. 351.) The modern town of Sutri is but a poor placewith only about 2000 inhabitants, but retains itsepiscopal see, which it has preserved throughout themiddle ages. It occupies the site of the nncientcity, as is shown by many fragments of columns andother architectural ornaments built into the ihouses, as well as by some portions of the iwalls, which resemble in their 6tyle of constructionthose of Nepe and Falerii. The situation is, likethat of most of the towns in this ]«rt of Etruria,on a nearly isolated hill bounded by precipitous cliffsor banks of tufo rock, of no great elevation, amisurrounded by small glens or ravines on all m i. .In the cliffs which bound these are excavatednumerous tombs, of no great interest. But themost remarkable relic of antiquity at Sutri is itsamphitheatre, which is excavated in the tufo nn k,and is in thus respect unique of its kind. It is,however, of small size, and, though irregular inconstruction, its architectural details are all of alate character: hence it is probable that it is reallyof Roman and Imperial times, though great im­portance has been sometimes attached to it as aspecimen of an original Etruscan amphitheatre. Itsanomalies and irregularities of structure are pro­bably owing only to the fact that it was worked outof a previously existing stone-quarry. (Dennis'sEtruria, vol. i. pp. 94—97; Nibbv, Dintirrni,vol. iii. pp. 142, 143.) [E. H. B.] SUZAE1 (Sovfaioi), a tribe of ancient Persia,noticed by Ptolemy (vi, 4. § 3). Lassen considersfrom this name that they were connected with thepeople of Susa, and that they were of the samerace as the Uxii, one of the mountain races of Sn-siana. (Ersch. u. Griiber's EncycL iii. sect. vol.xvii. p. 438.) [V.] SYAGROS PROMONTORIUM (Joorypoj Skoo),a promontory of the S. coast of Arabia, at the easternextremity of the Adramitae, the westernmost of thegulf of the Sachalitae, placed by Ptolemy in long.90°, lat. 14° (vi. 7. § 11). He comments on anerror of his predecessor, Marinus, who, he says, plai esthe gulf > u halites on the W. of Cape Syagros, whileall who had navigated those seas distinctly assertedthat the country Sachalitis and its synonymous baywere to the E. of Syagros (i. 17. §•} 2, 3). Mara-anus (p. 23, ap. Hudson Gevgr. Mm. torn, i.) agreeswith Ptolemy. The author of the Periplus ascribedto Arrian seems, however, to confirm the testimonyof Marinus, by placing the Sinus Sachalitcs next toCane Emporium, between that and Syagros Prouion-tonum, and naming the bay to the E. of Syagros,Omana, which he reckons as 600 stadia in width;but as he mentions still further to the E., MoschaPortus, as a magazine for the spicery of Sachalitis,which he there more fully describes, it is possiblethat he may have included all the country as far E.as Moscha under this name. It is at least clear thatthe Omana Sinus could be no part of the present