OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 289 The Roman government, appealed to for aid by the Aquilliuskings Ariobarzanes and Nicomedes in person, despatched sent t0to Asia Minor in support of Lucius Cassiua who was gover- Asla,nor there the consular Manius Aquillius, an officer triedin the Cimbrian and Sicilian wars—not, however, as generalat the head of an army, but as an ambassador—and directedthe Asiatic client states and Mithradates in particular tolend armed assistance in case of need. The result was asit had been two years before. The Roman officer accom­plished the commission intrusted to him with the aid of thesmall Roman corps which the governor of the province ofAsia had at his disposal, and the levy of the free Phrygiansand Galatians; king Nicomedes and king Ariobarzanesagain ascended their tottering thrones; Mithradates, althoughunder various pretexts evading the summons to furnish con­tingents, gave to the Romans no open resistance; on thecontrary the Bithynian pretender Socrates was even put todeath by his orders (664). 90. It was a singular complication. Mithradates was fully The state ofconvinced that he could do nothing against the Romans in things in-open conflict, and was therefore firmly resolved not to allow (e!'med,atematters to come to an open rupture and war with them. war an!tHad he not been so resolved, there was no more favourable peace.opportunity for beginning the struggle than the present: justat the time when Aquillius marched into Bithynia and Cappa-docia, the Italian insurrection was at the height of its powerand might encourage even the weak to declare against Rome;yet Mithradates allowed the year 664 to pass without profit- 90.ing by the opportunity. Nevertheless he pursued with equaltenacity and activity his plan of extending bis territory inAsia Minor. This strange combination of a policy of peaceat any price with a policy of conquest was certainly in itselfuntenable, and was simply a fresh proof that Mithradates didnot belong to the class of genuine statesmen; he knew neitherhow to prepare for conflict like king Philip nor how to sub­mit like king Attalus, but in the true style of a sultan wasperpetually fluctuating between a greedy desire of conquestand the sense of his own weakness. But even in this pointof view his proceedings can only be understood, when werecollect that Mithradates had become acquainted by twenty-years' experience with the Roman policy of that day. Heknew very well that the Roman government were far fromdesirous of war; that they in fact, looking to the seriousvol. in. v