OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 457 also foreign nationalities—the Transalpine Gauls, theSyrians ; above all, the various trades frequently appear onthe boards. The sacristan, the soothsayer, the bird-seer,the physician, the publican, the painter, fisherman, baker,pass across the stage: the criers were severely assailed andstill more the fullers, who seem to have played in theRoman fool-world the part of our tailors. While thevaried life of the city thus received its due attention, thefarmer with his joys and sorrows was also represented inall aspects. The copiousness of this rural repertory may beguessed from the numerous titles of that nature, such as"the Cow," "the Ass," "the Kid," "the Sow," "theSwine," "the Sick Boar," "the Farmer," "the Country­man," "Harlequin Countryman," "the Cattle-herd,""the Vinedresser," "the Figgatherer," "Woodcutting,""Pruning," "the Poultry-yard." In these pieces it wasalways the standing figures of the stupid and the artfulservant, the good old man, the wise man, that delighted thepublic; the first in particular might never be wanting—the Pulcinello of this farce—the gluttonous filthy Maccus,hideously ugly and yet eternally in love, always on the pointof stumbling across his own path, set upon by all with jeersand with blows and eventually at the close the regularscapegoat. The titles "Maccus Miles," "Maccus Copo,""Maccus Virgo," "Maccus Exul," "Macci Gemini" may fur­nish the good-humoured reader with some conception of thevariety of entertainment in the Roman masquerade. Al­though these farces, at least after they came to be written,accommodated themselves to the general laws of literature,and in their metres for instance followed the Greek stage,they yet naturally retained a far more Latin and more po­pular stamp than even the national comedy. The farceresorted to the Greek world only under the form of travestiedtragedy;* and this species appears to have been cultivatedfirst by Novius, and not very frequently in any case. Thetone, as a matter of course, was not the most refined; veryunambiguous ambiguities, coarse rustic obscenities, ghostsfrightening and occasionally devouring children, formed part * It was probably merry enough in this form. In the Phanissm of Novius,for instance, there was the line:— Sume arma, jam te occidam clava scirpea, just as Menander's Teuoiipa/cAijs makes his appearance.