OCR Output 268 LIVY. streams, and the plain inclosed between them is calledThe Island. The adjacent country is inhabited by theAllobroges; a nation, even in those times, inferior tonone in Gaul in power and reputation, but at thatjuncture weakened by discord. Two brothers dis­puted the sovereignty. The elder, who had been in­vested with the government, by name Brancus, wasdispossessed by the younger brother, and a combina­tion of the younger men ; on which side, though therewas less justice, there was more strength. Most op­portunely, the parties in this dissension referred theirpretensions to the judgment of Hannibal, who beingappointed arbitrator of the disputed'sovereignty, gavea decision agreeable to the sense of the senate, and ofthe principal men in the state : that the governmentshould be restored to the elder. In requital of whichfavor, he was assisted with a supply of provisions, andplenty of all kind of necessaries, particularly of cloth­ing, which the terrible accounts of the cold of thehigher regions made it necessary to provide. Aftersettling the disputes of the Allobroges, though nowbent on proceeding to the Alps, he took not the directroad thither, but turned to the left into the country ofthe Tricastines ; thence, through the extreme bounda­ries of the Vocontian territory, he advanced into thatof the Tricorians, meeting no obstruction until he^cameto the river Druentia. This also, deriving its sourcefrom the Alps, is, of all the rivers in Gaul, the mostdifficult to pass ; for though conveying a vast body ofwater, it admits not the use of ships ; because, beingconfined by no banks, it flows in several, and not al­ways the same channels, continually forming new shal­lows, and new whirlpools, so that a person is in dan­ger of missing his way ; and besides rolling down loosegritty stones, the footing is unsteady. Happening too,at that time, to be swelled by rains, it caused the ut­most disorder amo^ig -the troops on their passage, andwhich was much increased by their own hurry andconfused clamors. 32. In about three days after Hannibal's moving