OCR Output 233 MASADA. MASDOKAKL collected the property into one heap, and destroyedit all by fire, they cast lots for ten men, who shouldact as executioners of the others, while they lay inthe embrace of their slaughtered families. Oue wasthen selected by lot to slay the other nine sur­vivors; and be at last, having set fire to the palace,with a desperate effort drove his sword completelythrough his own body, and so perished. The totalnumber, including women and children, was 960.An old woman, with a female relative of Eleazarandfive children, who had contrived to conceal them­selves in the reservoirs while the massacre wasbeing perpetrated, survived, and narrated these factato the astonished Komans when they entered thefortress on the following morning and had oculardemonstration of the frightful tragedy. The scene of this catastrophe has been lately re­covered, and the delineations of the artist and thedescription of the traveller have proved in this, asin ao many other instances, the injustice of thecharge of exaggeration and extravagance so oftenpreferred against the Jewish historian. Mr. EliSmith was the first in modern times to suggest theidentity of the modern Svbbeh with the Masada ofJosephus. He had only viewed it at a distance, fromthe cliffs above Engeddi, in company with Dr. Ro­binson {Biblical Researches, vol. hi. p. 242, n. 1);but it was visited and fully explored, in 1842, byMessrs. Woolcot and Tipping, from whose descrip­tions the following notices are extracted. The firstview of it from the west strikingly illustrates theaccuracy of Strabo's description of its site. "Rockyprecipices of a rich reddish-brown colour sur­rounded us; and before us. across a scorched andde.sulate tract, were the cliff of Stbbeh, with itsruins, the adjacent height with rugged defiles be­tween, and the Dead Sea lying motionless in its bedbeneath. The aspect of the whole was that oflonely and stern grandeur.11 So on quitting thespot they found the ground "sprinkled with volcanicstones." The base of the cliff is separated fromthe water by a shoal or sand-bank; and the rockprojects beyond the mountain range, and is com­pletely isolated by a valley, even on the west side,where alone "the rock can now be climbed: the passon the east described by Josephus seems to havebeen swept away. The language of that historianres j tec ting the loftiness of the site, is not very ex­travagant. It requirea firm nerves to stand over itssteepest sides aud look directly down. The depth at these points cannot be less than 1000 feet The whole area we estimated at three-quarters of amile in length from N. to S.t and a third of a milein breadth. On approaching the rock from thewest, the 'white promontory,' as Josephus appro­priately calls it, is seen on this side near the northernend. This is the point where the siege was pressedand carried. Of ' the wall built round about the en­tire top of the hill by King Herod,1 all the lower partremains. Its colour ja of the same dark red as theruck, though it is said to have been 'composed ofwhite stone;' but on breaking the stone, it appearedthat it was naturally whitish, and had been burntbrown by the sun.* The ground-plan of the store­houses and barracks can still be traced in the found­ations of the buildings on the summit, and thecisterns excavated in the natural rock are of enor­mous dimensions: one is mentioned as nearly 50 feetdeep, 100 long, and 45 broad; its wall still coveredwith a white cement. The foundations uf a roundtower, 40 or 50 feet below the northern tuininit, may have been connected with the palace, -and Uwwindows cut in the rock near by, which Mr. Woolcotconjectures to have belonged to some large cistern,now covered up, may pussibly have lighted the rock-hewn gallery by which the palace communicatedwith the fortress. From the summit of the rockevery part of the wmII of circumvallatiun could betraced,—carried along the low ground, and, whereverit met a precipice, commencing again on the h;»hsummit above, thus making the entire circuit of theplace. Connected with it, at intervals, were th*walls of the Hoinan camps, opposite the M\V. *niSE. corners, the former being the spot where J-sephus places that of the Roman general A thirdmay be traced on the level near the shore. Toooutline of the works, as seen from the height* above,is as complete as if they had teen bat recentlyabandoned. The lEoman wall is G feet broad bull:,like the fortress walls and buildings above, withrough stones laid loosely together, and the intersticesfilled ill with small pieces of stone. The w&L uhalf a mile or more distant from the rock, so aa tobe without range of the stones discharged by thegarrison. No water was to be found in the neigh­bourhood but such as the recent rains had left inthe hollows of the rocks; confirming the remark ofJosephus, that water as well as food was broughtthither to the Roman army from a distance, ltaposition is exactly opposite to the peninsula lintruns into the Dead Sea from its eastern shore, to­wards its southern extremity. (Bibltothtca •Sacra,1843, pp. 62—67; Traill's Jostphus, voL ii. pp.109—115: the plates are given in vol. i. p. l'Jti.vol. ii. pp. 87, 238.) It must be admitted that Lheidentification of Stbbeh with Maxula ia most com­plete, and the vindication of the accuracy of theJewish historian, marvellous as his narrative ap}*"a\rswithout confirmation, so entire as to leave no duut«tthat lie was himself familiarly acquainted with thstfortress. [G. W.l MASAITICA (MaffoiTiJcn), a river the *• em­bouchure" of which is placed by Arrian (PeripLp. 18) on the S. coast of the Eaxine, 90 stadia fromthe Nesia. Itennell (Comp. Gtog. voL ii. p. 3:25)has identified it with the Kamuslar. [E. B. J.] If AS AX I (Mao-orof), a people of Arabia Dexrra,mentioned only by Ptolemy (v. 19. § 2), aittutted.above the RhaabeoL (Forster, Gtog. of Arabia^vol. i. pp. 284, 285.) [G. W.J MASCAS (McuTKas, Xenoph. Anai. L 5. § 4j,a small river of Mesopotamia, mentioned by X*-nophon in the march of Cyrus the Younger throughthat country. It flowed round a town which hocalls Corsote, and was probably a tributary of Lls>Euphrates. Forbiger imagines that it U the sauxstas the Saocoras of Ptolemy (v. 18. § 3), whiih hadits rise in the neighbourhood of Nisi bis, [V.J MASCIACUM, a place in Rhaetia, on the i\»s4leading from Veldidena to ]'>>ns Aeni (/£ A*L p»259), identified with Gmurul on the /'eoerawr, orwith J/otem, near Rattenbtrg. [L &.] MASCLIANA or MASCLIANAE, a umn iaDacia, which the Peutinger Table fixes at 11 M. P.from Gagana. The Geographer of Ravenna call* itMarsclunis; its position must be sought for nearKaransebe*. [E B. J.J MASDORA'NI (Mao&*paro\ or Mat>swr»), *wild tribe who occupied the mountain range ofMasdoranus, between Parthiaand Ariana, exlei*din£SW. towards the desert part of Cannania ie Ktr»man. (Ptol. vi. 17. § 3.) [V.J