OCR Output $58 ." DECLIKE A If D FALL pCHAP, XLlYi was unwilling to relinquish his slave. When the Romanmatrons became the equal and voluntary companions oftheir lords, a new jurisprudence was introduced, thatmarriage, like other partnerships, might be dissolved bythe abdication of one of the associates. In three centu-ries of prosperity and corruption, this principle was en-.Jarged to frequent practice and pernicious abuse. Pas- • • sion, interest, or caprice, suggested daily motives for thedissolution of marriage; a word, a sign, a message, a let­ter, the mandate of a freedman, declared, the separation;the most tender bf human connexions was degraded to atransient society of profit or pleasure. According to thevarious conditions of life, both sexes alternately felt thedisgrace and injury; an inconstant spouse transferredher wealth to a new family, abandoning a numerous, per*haps a spurious, progeny to the paternal authority andcare of her late husband; a beautiful virgin might bodismissed to the world, old, indigent and friendless; butthe reluctance of the Romans, when they were pressedto marriage by Augustus, sufficiently marks, that tb»prevailing institutions were least favourable to the males,A specious theory is confuted by this free and perfeet ex­periment, which demonstrates, that the liberty of divorcedoes not contribute to happiness and virtue. The faci­lity of separation would destroy all mutual confidence,and inflame every trifling dispute': the minute differencebetween a husband and a stranger, which might so easilybe removed, might still more easily be forgotten; andthe matron, who in five years can submit to the em­braces of eight husbands, must cease to reverence thechastity of her own person.1 Limiia- Insufficient remedies followed, with distant and tardy tions of 'r the liberty k -iSio fiunt octo niariti of divorce. . Quinque per automnos. Juvenal. Satir. C. 20. A rapid succession, which may yet be credible, as well as the non consilium numere,sed maritorum annos suos computant, of Seneca, (de Uencficiis, 3.16.) Jerome saw atKome a triumphant hushand bury his twenty-first wife, who had interred twenty-twoof his less sturdy predecessors. (Opp. tom. 1. p. 90. ad Geroutiam.) Bat the tenhusbands iu a month of the poet Martial, is an extravagant bypei bule. (lib. 4. epi­gram. 7.) "..' .