OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL himself from the luxury of the palace, he appeared in arms at the headof his legions, and advanced beyond the Po to encounter his com­petitor. The corrupted name of Pontirolo 1 still preserves thememory of a bridge over the Adda, which, during the action, musthave proved an object of the utmost importance to both armies.The Rhætian usurper, after receiving a total defeat and a dangerouswound, retired into Milan. The siege of that great city was im­mediately formed; the walls were battered with every engine inuse among the ancients; and Aureolus, doubtful of his internalstrength, and hopeless of foreign succours, already anticipated thefatal consequences of unsuccessful rebellion. His last resource was an attempt to seduce the loyalty of thebesiegers. He scattered libels through their camp, inviting the troopsto desert an unworthy master, who sacrificed the public happiness tohis luxury, and the lives of his most valuable subjects to theslightest suspicions. The arts of Aureolus diffused fears and discon­tent among the principal officers of his rival. A conspiracy wasformed by Heraclianus the Praetorian Præfect, by. Marcian a generalof rank and reputation, and by Cecrops, who commanded anumerous body of Dalmatian guards. The death of Gallienus wasresolved, and notwithstanding their desire of first terminating thesiege of Milan, the extreme danger which accompanied every mo­ment's delay, obliged them to hasten the execution of their daringpurpose. At a late hour of the night, but while the emperor stillprotracted the pleasures of the table, an alarm was suddenly given,that Aureolus, at the head of all his forces, had made a desperatesally from the town; Gallienus, who was never deficient in personalbravery, started from his silken couch, and, without allowing himselftime either to put on his armour, or to assemble his guards, hemounted on horseback, and rode full speed towards the supposedplace of the attack. Encompassed by his declared or concealedenemies, he soon, amidst the nocturnal tumult, received a mortal dart