OCR Output c. viii.] eleazar's speeches. 341 and not in betraying their liberty; but as to the multitude ofthose that are now under the Romans, who would not pitytheir condition ? and who would not make haste to die, beforehe would suffer the same miseries with them ? Some of themhave been put upon the rack, and tortured with fire andwhippings, and so died. Some of them have been half-devoured by wild beasts, and yet have been reserved aliveto bo devoured by them a second time, in order to affordlaughter and sport to our enemies; and such of those asare alive, still are to be looked on as the most miserable,who being so desirous of death could not come at it. Andwhere is now that great city, the metropolis of the Jewishnation ? which was fortified by so many walls round about,which had so many fortresses and large towers to defendit, which could hardly contain the instruments prepared forthe war, and which had so many ten thousands of men tofight for it ? Where is this city that was believed to haveGod himself inhabitant therein ? It is now demolished to thevery foundations, and hath nothing but that monument of itpreserved, I mean the camp of those that have destroyed it,which still dwells upon its ruins; some unfortunate old menalso lie upon the ashes of the temple, and a few women arethere preserved alive by the enemy for our bitter shame andreproach. Now, who is there that revolves these things inhis mind, and yet is able to bear the sight of the sun, thoughhe might live out of danger ? Who is there so much his coun­try's enemy, or so unmanly, and so desirous of living, as notto repent that he is still alive ? and I cannot but wish thatwe had all died, before we had seen that holy city demolishedby the hands of our enemies, or the foundations of our holytemple dug up after so profane a manner. But since we hada generous hope that deluded us, as if we might, perhaps,have been able to avenge ourselves on our enemies on thataccount, though it be now become vanity, and hath left usalone in this distress, let us make haste to die bravely. Letus pity ourselves, our children, and our wives, while it is inour own power to show pity to them ; for we were born to 29 *