OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. received an edict which deducted from their pay the priceof their arms and clothing, they execrated the avarice ofa prince insensible of the dangers and fatigues from whichhe had escaped. The camps both of Asia and Europewere agitated with frequent and furious seditions;5 theenraged soldiers of Edessa pursued, with reproaches, withthreats, with wounds, their trembling generals: theyoverturned the statues of the emperor, cast stones againstthe miraculous image of Christ, and either rejected theyoke of all civil and military laws, or instituted a danger­ous model of voluntary subordination. The monarch,always distant, and often deceived, was incapable of yield­ing or persisting according to the exigence of the mo­ment. But the fear of a general revolt induced him tooreadily to accept any act of valour, or any expression ofloyalty, as an atonement for the popular offence; thenew reform was abolished as hastily as it had been an­nounced, and the troops, instead of punishment and re­straint, were agreeably surprised by a gracious proclama­tion of immunities and rewards. But the soldiers accept­ed without gratitude the tardy and reluctant gifts of theemperor; their insolence was elated by the discovery ofhis weakness and their own strength; and their mutualhatred was inflamed beyond the desire of forgiveness orthe hope of reconciliation. The historians of the timesadopt the vulgar suspicion, that Maurice conspired to de­stroy the troops whom he had laboured to reform; the mis­conduct and favour of Commentiolus are imputed to thismalevolent design; and every age m ust condemn the inhu­manity or avarice' of a prince, Who by the trifling ransomof six thousand pieces of gold, might have prevented themassacre of twelve thousand prisoners in the hands of the • See the mutinies under the reign of Maurice, in Theophylact, lib. 3. e. 1—4;lib. 6. o. 7, 8. 10; lib. 7. o. 1; lib. 8. c. 6, &c. 4 Theophylact and Theophanes seem ignorant of the conspiracy and avarice ofMaurice. These charges, so unfavourable to the memory of that emperor, are 6rstmentioned by the author of the Paschal Chronicle; (p. 379* 380) from whence Zona-ras (tom. 1. lib. 14. p. 77, 78.) has,transcribed them. Cedrenus (p. 399.) baa fol­lowed another computation of the ransom.