OCR Output NOTES ON THE SIXTEENTH CHAPTER have imagined, all that Epiphanius has received,and all that Tillemont has copied. M. de Beau-sobre (Hist, du Manieheisme, L ix. c. 8, 9.) hasexposed with great spirit, the disingenuous arts ofAugustin and Pope Leo I. [22] When Tertullian became a Montanist, heaspersed the morals of the church which he hadso resolutely defended. Sed majoris est Agape,"quia per hanc Adolefcentes tui cum Sororibus"dormiunt, appendices scilicet gulae lascivia et"luxuria." De Jejuniis, c. 17. The 35th canonof the council of Illiberis provides against thescandals which too often polluted the vigils of thechurch, and disgraced the Christian name, in theeyes of unbelievers. [73] Tertullian (Apolog. c. a.) expatiates onthe fair and honourable testimony of Pliny, withmuch reason, and some declamation. [74] In the various compilation of the AcgcstanHistory, (a part of which was composed underthe reign of Constantine) there are not six lineswhich relate to the Christians; nor has the dili­gence of Xiphilin discovered their name in the largehistory of Dion Cassius. [2,-] An obscure passage of Suetonius (in Claud,c. 25.) may seem to offer a proof how strangely theJews and Christians of Rome were confoundedwith each other. [26] See in the xviiith and xxvth chapters of theActs of the Apostles, the behaviour of Gallio, pro­consul of Achaia, and of Festus, procurator ofJudea. [27] In the time of Tertullian and Clemens ofAlexandria, the glory of martyrdom was confinedto St. Peter, St. Paul, and St. James. It wasgradually bestowed on the rest of the apostles, bythe more recent Greeks, who prudently selectedfor the theatre of their preaching and sufferings,some remote country beyond the limits of the Ro­man empire. See Molheim, p. 81, and Tillemont,Memoires Ecclesiafliques, torn. i. part iii. [28] Tacit. Annal. xy. 38—44. Sueton. inNeron.^r. 38. Dion Caflius, 1. lxii. p. 1014. Oro-sius, vii. 7. [29] The price of wheat (c robably of the nodtiti)was reduced as low as ttrmi Nummi; which would beequivalent to about fifteen shillings the Englishquarter. [30] We may observe, that the rumour is men­tioned by Tacitus with a very becoming distrust andhesitation, whilst it is greedily transcribed by Sue­tonius, and solemnly confirmed by Dion. [31] This testimony is alone sufficient to exposethe anachronism of the Jews, who place the birth ofChrist near a century sooner (Basnage, Histoire desJuifs, 1. v. c. 14, 15.). We may learn from Jose-phus (Antiquitat. xviii. 3.), that the procuratorlhipof Pilate corresponded with the last ten years ofTiberius, A. D. 27—37. As to the particular timeof the death of Christ, a very early tradition fixedit to the 25th of March, A. D. 29, under the con­sulship of the two Gemini (Tertullian adv. Judæos,c. 8.). This date, which is adopted by Pagi, cardi­nal Norris,and LeClerc, seems, at least, as probableas the vulgar æra, which is placed (I know not fromwhat conjectures) sour years later. [32] Tacit. Annal. xv. 44. [33] Nardini Roma Antica, p. 387. Donatusde Roma Antiqua, 1. iii. p. 449. [34] Sueton. in Nerone, c. 16. The epithet ofmaltfica, which some sagacious commentators havetranslated magical, is considered by the more rationalMostieim as only synonymous to the exitiabilii ofTacitus. [35] The passage concerning Jesus Christ, whichwas inserted into the text of Josephus, between thetime of Origen and that ofEusebius, may furnishan example of no vulgar forgery. The accom­plishment of the prophecies, the virtues, miracles,and resurrection of Jesus, are fairly related. Jose­phus acknowledges that he was the Messiah, andhesitates whether he should call him a man. [36] See the lives of Tacitus by Lipsius and theAbbe de la fileterie, Dictionnaire de Bayle a Par-tide Tacite, and Fabricius, Biblioth. Latin, torn,ii. p. 386. Edit. Ernest. [37] Principatum Divi Nerva?, et imperiumTrajani, uberiorem securioremque materiam se-nectuti sepofui, Tacit. Hist. i. [38] See Tacit. Annal. ii. 61. iv. 4. [39] The player's name was Aliturus. Throughthe fame channel, Josephus (de Vita fua, c. 3.)about two years before, had obtained the pardon and