OCR Output OEPIMENT. 41 in the mode that was first mentioned, with such immense labour,is washed in this water, lest it should fill up the pits. The goldwhich is procured from the Arrugige is not smelted, being foundin the metallic state. Lumps of it are met with in this situation,and also in the trenches, of more than ten pounds each; theSpaniards call them Palacae, others call them Palacurnae; whenvery small they are called Balucae.9 The furze, after being dried,is burnt, and the ashes are washed; a sod being laid under it onwhich the gold may settle. Some writers have asserted, that inthis way 20,000 lbs. weight are procured every year from Asturia,Gallaecia, and Lusitania; Asturia, however, produces the greatestproportion of it; and it is said, that in no part of the world havethe mines been equally productive for so long a period. I havealready mentioned, that in consequence of an ancient prohibitionof the senate, mines have never been sunk in Italy, otherwise nocountry would have been richer in metals. A prohibitory law islikewise extant respecting the gold mine of the Ictimuli, in thecountry of the Vercellenses, which orders that those who farm thismine should be allowed to employ uo more than 5,000 men. 22. ORPIMENT. * - Gold is also obtained from Orpiment, a substance which is gotin Syria for the use of painters: it lies near the surface of the et canales." The French translation is as follows; "Les sedimens de ces."eaux ont deja recule sensiblement les limites du continent de l'Espagne." 9 For some remarks on these terms, see the note in Valpy, p. 4357, 8.Strabo has the following observation; "Ev Et roig iptiyfiaoi .... fwepagKaOapaiuiq StoptvaQ." "Csterum inter auri ramenta aiunt inventas aliquando"selibres glebas, quas ipsi palas (iroXac) nominant, exigua purgationc"indigentes." lib. iii. p. 216. 1 "Auripigmentum." This appears to be orpiment, the sulphuret ofarsenic; the word occurs in only one other passage of Pliny, lib. xxxv. sec.12, where he is enumerating the " colores austeri qui nascuntur." It is notmentioned in the section which treats on arsenic, our author perhaps notbeing aware of its connexion with the substance; see lib. xxxiv. sec. 56.The word auripigmentum is not, I believe, to be found in the text ofDioscorides, although Virgilius and his commentators generally have trans­lated the Greek word apatviKov by the Latin word auripigmentum, while itappears that the substance which is described by Dioscorides under thetitle of apaivnov is not the white oxide but the sulphuret of arsenic; seelib. v. cap. 75. p. 671, 5. Celsus, lib. v. cup. 5. sec. 1, speaks of auripig­