OCR Output S54 WARS OF THE JRW3. Book I. then made an expedition against the Jews ; but when he was af­terward driven away by Simeon, who was Jonathan's brother,and was enraged at his defeat, he put Jonathan to death. 2. However, Simeon managed the public affairs after a cou­rageous manner, and took Gazara, and Joppa, and Jamnia, whichwere cities in the neighbourhood. He also got the garrison un­der, and demolished the citadel. He was afterward an auxiliaryto Antiochus, against Trypho, whom he besieged in Dora, beforelie went on his expedition against the Medes ; yet could not hemake the king ashamed of his ambition, though he had assistedhim in killing Trypho ; for it was not long ere Antiochus sentCendebeus his general with an army to lay waste Judea, and to-subdue Simeon ; yet he, though he were now in years, conduct­ed the war as if he were a much younger man. He also sent hishons with a band of strong men against Antiochus, while he tookpart of the army himself with him, and fell upon him from ano­ther quarter : lie also laid a great many men in ambush in manyplaces of the mountains, and was superior in all his attacks uponthem ; and when he had been conqueror after so glorious a man­ner, he was high-priest, and also freed the Jews from the domi­nion of the Macedonians, after an hundred and seventy years ofthe empire [of Seleucus], 3. This Simeon also had a plot laid against him, and was slainat a feast by his son-in-law Ptolemy, who put his wife and twosons into prison, and sent some persons to kill John, who was al-'so * called Hyrcanus. But when the young man was informedof their coming beforehand, he made haste to get to the city, ashaving a very great confidence in the people there, both on ac­count of the memory of the glorious actions of his father, andof the hatred they could not but bear to the injustice of Ptolemy.Ptolemy also made an attempt to get into the city by anothergate ; but was repelled by the people, who had just then admit­ted' Hyrcanus ; so he retired presently to one of the fortressesthat were about Jericho, which was called Dagon. Now, when.Hyrcanus had received the high-priesthood, which Uis fatherhad held before, and had offered sacrifice to God, he madegreat haste to attack Ptolemy, that he might afford relief to hismother and brethren. 4. So he laid siege to the fortress, and was superior to Ptolemy in * Why this Johntbe son of Simeon, the high-priest, and governor of the Jews,was called Hyrcanus, Josephus no where informs us; nor is he called other thanJohn at the end of the first book of the Maccabees. However, Sixtus Senensis,when he gives us an epitome of the Greek version of the book here abridged byJosephus, or of the Chronicles of this John Hyrcanus, then extant, assures us thathe was called Hyrcanus from his conquest of one of that name. See Authent. Rec.' Part I. p. 27. Bat of this younger Antiochus, see Dean Aldrich's note here.