OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 31 for 300 elephants, in the upper range stalls for horses,magazines, and barracks.* The citadel-hill, the Byrsa(Syriac, Urtha = citadel), a comparatively considerable rockhaving a height of 188 feet and at its base a circumferenceof fully 2000 double paces,t was dovetailed into this wall atits southern end, just as the rock-wall of the Capitol wasdovetailed into the city-wall of Rome. Its summit bore thehuge temple of the God of Healing, resting on a basement ofsixty steps. The south side of the city was washed partly bythe shallow lake of Tunes towards the south-west, which wasseparated almost wholly from the gulf by a narrow and lowtongue of land running southwards from the Carthaginianpeninsula, J partly by the open gulf towards the south-east.At this last spot was situated the double harbour of the city,a work of human hands: the outer or commercial harbour,a longish rectangle with the narrow end turned to the sea,from whose entrance, only seventy feet wide, broad quaysstretched along the water on both sides, and the innercircular war-harbour, the Cothon,§ with the island containingthe admiral's house in the middle, which was approachedthrough the outer harbour. Between the two passed thecity wall, which turning eastward from the Byrsa excludedthe tongue of land and the outer harbour, but included thewar-harbour, so that the entrance to the latter must beconceived as capable ot\ being closed like a gate. Not farfrom the war-harbour lay the market-place, which wasconnected by three narrow streets with the citadel open on * The rooms of a horse-shoe shape brought to light in excavation have adepth of 14, and a breadth of 11, Greek feet; the width of the entrance is notspecified. Whether these dimensions and the proportions of the corridor sufficefor our recognizing them as elephants' stalls, remains to be settled by a moreaccurate investigation. The partition-walls, which separate the apartments,have a thickness of 1 • I metre = 3J feet. f Ores. lv. 22. Fully 2000 paces, or—as Tolybius must have said—16Stadia, are = about 3000 metres. The citadel-hill, on which the church of St.Louis now stands, measures at the top about 1400, half way up about 2600,metres in circumference (Beule\ p. 22); for the circumference at the base thatestimate will very well suffice. 1 It now bears the fort Goletta. § That this Phoenician word signifies a basin excavated in a circular shape,is shown both by Diodorus (iii. 44), and by its being employed by the Greeksto denote a " cup." It thus suits only the inner harbour of Carthage, and inthat sense it is used by Strabo (xvii. 2, 14, where it is strictly applied to theadmiral's island) and Kest. Ep. v. Cotlumes, p. 37. Appian, Pun. 127, is notquite accurate in describing the rectangular harbour in front of the Cothon aspart of it. ,