OCR Output 712 MM A. ROMA. 21): tod the reign of Claudius was distinguished bythe completion of two aqueducts and the construc-tiuo of several beautiful fountains (Id. Claud. 20).Tin* factious struggles Irttween Otho and Yitelliuswere marked by the ominous burning of the Capitol.At length the happier era of the public-spiritedVespasian was distinguished alike by hi.s regardfur the civil liberties of the Ilomans, and fur theirmaterial comfuru, by the attention which he paidto the improvement of the city, and by his restoringto the public use and enjoyment the vast frpace ap­propriated by Xero for his own selfish gratitication.The Inunds of the imperial |>alace were again re­stricted to the limits of the Palatine, and on the siteof Nero's lake rose a vast amphitheatre destined forthe amusement of so many thousands of the Romanpeople, whose ruins we still gaze at with wonderand admiration. Vespasian was likewise the founderof tlie temple of Peace, near the Korum, and of atemple to Claudius on theCaelian hill. Titus pursuedthe popular designs of his father, and devoted a largeportion of the former imperial gardens on theJvuiuilinc to the foundation of public baths, (Suet.Tit. 7; Mart. iii. 20. 15.) Under this emperoranother destructive fire raged for three dajra andnights at Koine, and again laid a great pari of thecity in ashes. (Suet. Tit S.) The chief works ofDomitian were the rebuilding of the temple of JupiterCapitolinua, which had again been burnt, on themere external gilding of w hich he is said to haveexpended 12,000 talents, or nearly three millionssteiling; and the foundation of a new forum, winch,however, was not finished till the time of Xerva,whose name it bore. (Id.Am.5.) Trajan constructedthe last of the imperial fora, with which was con­nected the Basilica Ulpia. (Dion Cass. lxix. 4.)Pome probably attained its highest pitch of archi­tectural splendour under the reign of his successorHadrian, That emperor had a passion for building,and frequently furnished his own designs, which,however, were-not always in the best taste. Hismost remarkable works were the Mausoleum on theright bank of the Tiber, now the CasUllo tU S. An-gthy the Temple of Venus and Rome near theColosseum, and the enormous villa whose ruins maystilt be seen at the foot of the ascent which leads toTivoH. (Spart. ffadr. 19; Procop. B. G. i. 22.) It would be tedious and unprofitable to recountthe works of succeeding emperors down to the time ofAurelian; and it may suffice to mention that thosewho most contributed to renovate or ad"rn the cityuciv Septiuiiu.t Sfvents, Caraialla, and AlexanderSeverus. During this period Pome betrayed unequi­vocal symptoms of her approaching decline and tall.Large bodies of the barbarians had already penetratedinto Italy, and, in the reign of the accomplished butfeeble Gallienua, a horde of the Alemanni had me­naced and insulted Pome itself. After a lapse ofeight centuries its citizens again trembled for thesafety of their families and homes; and the activeand enterprising Aurelian, whilst waging successfulwars in Egypt and the East, found himself com­piled to secure his capital by fortifying it with awall. This great undertaking, commenced A. D. 271,was completed in the reign of Probus, the successor ofAurelian. (Vopise..lM/\ 21. 39; Aur. Vict.Cost, 35;Kutrop. ix. 15; Zo>im. i. 49). The accounts of thecircumference of this wall are discrepant and impro.bable, Vopiscill {Antrl. c. 39) mentions the absurdmid extravagant measure of nearly SO miles; which, however, has been adopted by Lipe-ios aai 1Yossius, as well as by Xibby (A7*ro, -V.seq.). The walla of Aurelian were rfpaired bnorius. and with the exception of that part ithe Tiber, and some modem additions by tbtfare substantially the same as those 1exist, as appears from tbe inscriptions a t!Without the additions referred to, their c'would be between 11 and 12 miles.tbwrcity to about the same dimensions as tinPliny in the time of Vespasian; dot ii treason to believe that, in the sinking stale of tlpire, the city would have received say iinhabitants. Another measurement by Jgeometrician, jast before tbe siege of un>4Alaric, gave a circumference of 21!BAL 80, p. 63, ed. Bekk.);though adopted by Gibbon, and lcannot be accepted any more than that oi Vej(tiibbon, DecL and Fall, vol. iL p. 17, elland notes.) Piale suggested that Vu|iiar—jjwkt instead of passu*, andboth the passages have been proposed; bol*discussing tbe merit of these, it is ithat the texts are undoubtedly either »erroneous. This may be briefly botshown from the following considerations, ifor the most part, apply to both the state1st, the incredible extent of the work;absence of any traces of such walls; 3rd,eft|buildings within their supposed Units, Iwould naturally belong to a city; 4th, tetfthe extant inscriptions ascribe to Ii rstoration of an old line of walls andconstrwetiom of a new one. (Buiibary, IMm. iii. p. 368.) VI. Decline axd Fall of tkx i The history of the city from tbe tiroeef jfl presents little more than a propped of *■decline. The walls of that emperor wees Oaflits sinking fortunes; but the reign of IfcochfJ^ the Brat marked aera of its decay. Thtlthat emperor and of his collesirtie |303, was the last ever celebrated at 1ilistinguished by the trophies of an ivictory. (Eutrop. ix. 27.) The |had long ceased to be of Romancletian, the descendant of slavev, »ir.atia; Maximian, the son of afellow countryman; andby any ties of birth or;glories of the eternal city,emperors who deserted the capital u> txtdence in the provinces. Maxiunaacourt at Milan, whilst Diocletianmedia, on the embellishment uf 1all the treasures of the East, inrender it a rival worthy uf Rome,the ancient capital seems to bare 1sion of his triumph ; it was n*>ttwo months, and was closed withcipitation and abruptness. (Lact.e. 17.) Yet his reign is distin&raaconferred upon the city one of themagnificent of its monuments, — taw 1Quirinal which bear his name, by tax 1Rome, whose enormous ruins may sand aftord room enough for var.oasvents, and gardens. (Vopisc Inter, 1056.)