OCR Output AN. 168.] 441 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. who compelled them to sacrifice, with a fewof his soldiers. He also overthrew the idolaltar; and cried out, "If any one be zealousfor the laws of his country, and for the wor­ship of God, let him follow me." And whenhe had said this, he hastened into the desertwith his sons, and left all his substance in thevillage. Many others did the same, and fledwith their children and wives into the desert;and dwelt in caves. But when the king'sgenerals heard this, they took all the forcesthey then had in the citadel at Jerusalem,and pursued the Jews into the desert. Andwhen they had overtaken them, they, in thefirst place, endeavoured to persuade them torepent, and to choose what was most fortheir advantage; and not put them to the ne­cessity of using them according to the law ofwar. But when they would not comply withtheir persuasions, but continued to be of adifferent mind, they fought against them onthe sabbath day; and they burnt them, asthey were in the caves, without resistance;and without so much as stopping up the en­trances of the caves. And they avoided todefend themselves on that day, because theywere not willing to break in upon the honourthey owed the sabbath, even in such dis­tresses. For our law requires that we restupon that day. There were about a thousand,with their wives and children, who weresmothered, and died in these caves. Butmany of those that escaped, joined them­selves to Mattathias, and appointed him to be their ruler; who taught them to fight, evenon the sabbath day;* and told them, thatunless they would do so, they would becometheir own enemies, by observing the law sorigorously, while their adversaries would stillassault them on this day, and they would notthen defend themselves; and that nothingcould hinder, but they must all perish, with­out fighting. This speech persuaded them;and this rule continues among us to the pre­sent time; that if there be a necessity, wemay fight on sabbath days. So Mattathiasassembled a great army and overthrew theiridol altars, and slew those that brake thelaws; even all that he could get under hispower. For many of them were dispersedamong the nations round about them, for fearof him. He also commanded that those boyswhich were not yet circumcised, should becircumcised now; and he drove those awaythat were appointed to hinder such circum­cision. But when he had ruled one year, and wasfallen into a distemper, he called for hissons,f and set them round about him, andsaid, " O my sons, I am going the way of allthe earth, and I recommend to you my reso­lution; and beseech you not to be negligentin keeping it; but to be mindful of the de­sired of him who begat you, and brought youup; and to preserve the customs of yourcountry; and to recover your ancient form ofgovernment, which is in danger of being over­turned; and not be carried away with those * By the law of Moses, the Jews were commanded todo no manner of work on the sabbath day; but this wasa precept which would admit of some exceptions, andwhat some people took in a more rigorous sense thanothers. The Samaritans, for instance, thought themselvesobliged to observe it to such a degree of strictness, as notto stir out of their places on that day, because the law isliterally so expressed, Exod. xvi. 29. but the Jews wereof opinion, that they were permitted to make their escapefrom danger, or to walk such a compass of ground, (whichthey call a sabbath day's journey,) if it were for anynecessary occasion, on that day. In our Saviour's time,it was allowable, they thought, to pull any animal out of apit, or a ditch, on that day, Matt. xii. 11. but the Talmu-dical doctors were for revoking that permission, andfound fault with him for even healing the sick and thelame, on the sabbath. Mattathias, and his company, bysundry experiences, were convinced, that too scrupulousan observance of the sabbath had brought several cala­mities upon their nation; that Ptolemy, the son of Lagus,the first king of Egypt of that name, by assaulting Jeru­salem on the sabbath day, (wherein the Jews would do nothing to defend themselves,) became master of it with­out opposition; and that (but just lately,\ a great numberof their brethren had been passively slain, because theywould not so much as handle their arms on that day; andthereupon they came to a resolution to defend themselves,whenever they were attacked, be the day what it would;but we do not find, that they came to any decision, whe­ther they themselves were to attack the enemy on thesabbath. On the contrary, it seems as if they had de­termined that they were only permitted to repel force byforce; and therefore we read, that, when Pompey be­sieged the temple, observing that the Jews did barelydefend themselves on the seventh day, he ordered hismen to offer no hostilities, but only to raise the batteries,plant their engines, and make their approaches on thatday, being well assured, that in doing of this, he shouldmeet with no molestation from them; and, by this meanshe carried the place much sooner than he otherwisewould have done. Jemsh Antiq. lib. 14. c. 8. JewishWars, lib. 1. c. 5. and Calmefs Commentary on 1 Macca­bees ii. 14. B.t 1 Mace. ii. 49.