OCR Output IBERIA. IBKRIA. 9 p. 160; Ruche, Lex. Nvm. s. v.; Eckho], vol. 1. pp.SO. 51; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp. 416, 417; Ford,Haixlkook of Spain, p. 210.) [P. S.] IBERIA (i) 'ISripia), the extensive tract ofcountry which lies between the Euxine and Caspian■ear, to the S. of the great chain of the Caucasus,and which, bounded on the W. by Colchis, on the £.by Albania, and the S. by Armenia, ia watered bythe river Cyma (K&r). (Strab. xi. p. 499, comp. i.pp. 45, 69; Pomp. Mel. iii. 5. § 6; Plin. vi. 11;Ptol. v. 11.) From these limits, it will be seenthat the Iberia of the ancients corresponds verynearly with modem Georgia, or Gruaia, as it iscalled by the Russians. Strabo (p. 500) describesit as being hemmed in by mountains, over whichthere were only four passes known. One of thesecrossed the Moschi'cki Momtes, whicli separatedIberia from Colchis, by the Colchian fortress Sara-fas a (Scharapani), and is the modern road fromMingrelta into Georgia over Suram. Another, onthe N-, rises from the country of the Nomades in asteep ascent of three days' journey (along the valleyof the Terek or TergT); after which the road passesthrough the defile of the river Araous, a journeyof four days, where the pass is closed at the lowerend by an impregnable wall. This, no doubt, isthe pass of the celebrated Caucasian Gates [Cav-casiae Portae], described by Pliny (vi. 12) as aprodigious work of nature, formed by abrupt pre­cipices, and having the interval closed by gates withiron bars. Beneath ran a river which emitted astrong smell (" Subter medias (fores), amne diri odorisf.uente," Plin. /. c). It is identified with the greatcentral road leading from the W. of Georgia by thepass of Darn/el, so named from a fortress situatedon a rock washed by the river Terek, and called bythe Georgians Shevis Kari, or the Gate of Shevi.The third pass was from Albania, which at itscommencement was cut through the rock, but after­wards went through a marsh formed by the riverwhich descended from the Caucasus, and is the sameas the strong defile now called Derbend or "narrowpus," from the chief city of Daghettan, which is atthe extremity of the great arm which branches outfrom the Caucasus, and, by its position on a steepand almost inaccessible ridge, overhanging theCaspian sea, at once commands the coast-road andthe Albanian Gates. The fourth pass, by whichPompeius and Canidius entered Iberia, led up fromArmenia, and is referred to the high road fromKrzrxm, through Kan, to the N. [Aragus.] The surface of the country is greatly diversifiedwith mountains, hills, plains, and valleys; the bestportion of this rich province is the basin of the Kir,with the valleys of the Aragavi, Alazan, and othertributary streams. Strabo (p. 499) speaks of thenumerous cities of Iberia, with their houses havingtiled roofs, as well as some architectural pretensions.Besides this, they had market-places and otherpublic buildings. The people of the Ibkres or Ibebi fICnpei,Steph. B. J. r.) were somewhat more civilised thantheir neighbours in Colchis. According to Strabo(p. 500), they were divided into four castes :— (1.) The royal horde, from which the chiefs, bothin peace and war, were taken. (2.) The priests,who acted also as arbitrators in their quarrels withthe neighbouring tribes. (3.) Soldiers and husband­men. (4.) The mass of the population, who were•laves to the king. The form of government wastatriarchaL. The people of the plain were peaceful, and cultivated the soil; while their dress was thesame as that of the Armenians and Mcdes. Themountaineers were more warlike, and resembled theScythians and Sarmatians. As, during the time ofHerodotus (iii. 9), Colchis was the N. limit of thePersian empire, the Iberians were probably, in name,subjects of that monarchy. Along with the othertribes between the Caspian and the Kuxine, theyacknowledged the supremacy of Mithridates. TheRomans became acquainted with them in the cam­paigns of Lucullus and Pompeius. In B. c. 65, thelatter general commenced his march northwards inpursuit of Mithridates, and had to fight against theIberians, whom he compelled to sue for peace. (Plut,Pomp. 34.) A. D. 35, when Tiberius set up Tiri-dates as a claimant to the Parthian throne, heinduced the Iberian princes, Mithridates and hisbrother Pharasmanes, to invade Armenia; whichthey did, and subdued the country. Cl&c.Ann. vi. 33—36; comp. Diet, of Biog. Pharasmanes.) InA. i>. 115, when Armenia became a Roman provinceunder Trajan, the king of the Iberians made a furmof submitting himself to the emperor. (Eutrop. viii.3; comp. Dion Cass. lxix. 15; Spartian. Hadrian.17.) Under the reign of Constantino the Iberians wereconverted by a captive woman to Christianity,which has been preserved there, though mixed withsuperstition, down to the present times. One of theoriginal sources for this story, which will be foundin Neander (Altgemein Gesch. der ChriitL Kelig.vol. iii. pp. 234—236; comp. Milman, Hut. ofChristianity, vol. ii. p. 480), is Rufinus (x. 10),from whom the Greek church historians (Socrat.i. 20; Sozom. ii. 7; Theod. i. 24; Mos. Choren. ii. 83)have borrowed it. In a. d. 365—378, by theignominious treaty of Jovian, the Romans renouncedthe sovereignty and alliance of Armenia and Iberia.Sapor, after subjugating Armenia, marched againstSauromaces, who was king of Iberia by the per­mission of the emperors, and, after expelling him,reduced Iberia to the state of a Persian province.(Aiuin. Marc, xxrii. 12; Gibbon, c xxv; Lc Beau,Bat Empire, vol. iii. p. 357.) During the wars between the Roman emperors andthe Sassanian princes, the Iberian Gates hadcome into the possession of a prince of the Huns,who offered this important pass to Anastasius; butwhen the emperor built Darns, with the object ofkeeping the Persians in check, Cobades, or Kobad,seized upon the defiles of the Caucasus, and forti­fied them, though less as a precaution against theRomans than against the Huns and other northernbarbarians. (Procop. B. P. i. 10 ; Gibbon, c. xl.; LeBeau, vol. vi. pp. 269, 442, vol. vii. p. 398.) Fora curious history of this pass, and its identificationwith the fabled wall of Gog and Magog, see Hum­boldt, Asie Centrale, vol.ii. pp.93—104; Eichwald,Peripl. da Catp.Meeret, vol. i. pp. 128—132. Onthe decline of the Persian power, the Iberian frontierwas the scene of the operations of the emperorsManrice and Heraclius. Iberia is now a province ofRussia. The Georgians, who do not belong to the Indo-Enropean family of nations, are the same race as theancient Iberians. By the Armenian writers theyare still called Virk, a name of perhaps the sameoriginal as "lSfipes. They call themselves Kartli,and derive their origin, according to their nationaltraditions, from an eponymous ancestor, Kartlos.Like the Armenians, with whom, however, there b