OCR Output 578 Book llr WARS OF THE JEWS. sity of their mind. And as for death, if it will be for theirgloryi they esteem it better than living always; and indeed ourwar with the Romans gave abundant evidence what great soulsthey had in their trials, wherein, although they were torturedand distorted, burnt and torn to pieces, and went through allkinds of instruments of torment, that they might be forcedeither to blaspheme their legislator, or to eat what was forbid足den them, yet could they not be made to do either of them, no,nor once to flatter their tormentors, or to shed a tear; but theysmiled in their very pains, and laughed those to acorn who in足flicted the torments upon them, and resigned up their souls withgreat alacrity, as expecting to receive them again. II. For their doctrine is this, That bodies are corruptible,and that the matter they are made of is not permanent; but thatthe souls are immortal, and continue for ever, and that they comeout of the most subtil air, and are united to their bodies as toprisons, into which they are drawn by a certain natural entice足ment; but that when they are set free from the bonds of theflesh, they then, as released from a long bondage, rejoice andmount upward. And this is like the opinion of the Greeks, thatgood souls have their habitations beyond the ocean, in a regionthat is neither oppressed with storms of rain, or snow, or withintense heat, but that this place is such as is refreshed by thegentle breathing of a weit wind, that is perpetually blowing fromthe ocean i while they allot to bad souls a dark and tempestuousden, full of never-ceasing punishments. And indeed the Greeksseem to me to have followed the same notion, when they allotthe islands of the blessed to their brave men, whom they call he足roes, and demigods; and to the souls of the wicked, the regionof the ungodly, in Hades, where their fables relate that certainpersons, such as Sisyphus, and Tantalus, and Ixion, and Tityus,are punished; which is built on this first supposition, that soulsare immortal; and thence are those exhortations to virtue, anddehortations from wickedness collected, whereby good men arebettered in the conduct of their life by the hope they have ofreward after their death, and whereby the vehement inclination*of bad men to vice are restrained, by the fear and expectationthey are in, that although they should lie concealed in this life,they should suffer immortal punishment after their death. Theseare the divine doctrines of the Essens * about the soul, whichlay an unavoidable bait for such as have once had a taste of theirphilosophy. IS}. There * Of these Jewish or Essene, and indeed Christian, doctrines concerning souls,both good and bad, in Hades, see that excellent discourse or homily, of our lots-phus's concerning Hades, at the end of vol, IV.