OCR Output 366 MOERIS LACUS. MOERIS LACUS. king of the same name. This supposition is in­credible, and runs counter both to local traditionand actual observation. "Nothing," says a moderntraveller (Browne, Travels in Egypt, p. 169), "canpresent an appearance so unlike the works of men.On the NK. and S. is a rocky ridge, in even' ap­pearance primeval ;r and Strabo (xvii. p. 112) ob­serve.* upon the marine confirmation of its shoresand the billowy colour and motion of its waters.So far as it lias been hitherto surveyed, indeed,Moeris is known to have been inclosed by ele­vated lands; and, in early times, the bed of theNile was too low to admit of its waters flowinginto the basin of the lake, even if there had beena natural communication between the river andMoeris. Strabo believed it to be altogether anatural reservoir, and that the canal which con­nected it with the Nile was alone the work of humanart. His opinion is doubtless the correct one, butadmits perhaps of some modification. The wholeof the Arsinoite nome was indebted to human enter­prise for much of its extent and fertility. Geologi­cally speaking, it was, in remote periods, a vastlimestone valley, the reservoir of waters descendingfrom the encompassing hills, and probably, if con­nected with the Nile at all, the coiumuniciiion wassubterraneous. As the accumulated waters graduallysubsided, the summits and sides of the higherground were cultivated. The richness of the soil—a deposit of clay and muriate of lime, like that ofthe Oasts—would induce its occupiers in every ageto rescue the land from the lake, and to run duuisand embankments into the water. In the dryseason, therefore, Moeris would exhibit the spectacleof a body of water intersected by peninsulas, andbroken by islands, while, at the period of inundation,it would wear the aspect of a v:ist basin. Ac­cordingly, the accounts of eye-witnesses, such aswere Strabo and Herodotus, would vary accordingto the season of the year in which they inspectedir. Moreover, there are grounds for supposing thatancient travellers did not always distinguish betweenthe connecting canal, the bahr~Juxuj\ and Moerisitself. The cmal was unciue.stioiubly constructedby man's labour, nor would it present any insupc-rab v ditlicultics to a people so laborious as theAegyptians. There was also a further motive forredeeming the Mocriote district generally, for thelands opposite to it, on the eastern bank of the Nile,were generally barren, bein^ either a sandy levelor stone quarries, while the soil of the Arsinoitenome was singularly fertile, and suited to variouscrops, corn, vegetables, and fruit. It' then we dis­tinguish, as Strabo did, the canal (5i(£pu{) from thelake (Af/xyij), the ancient narratives may be easilyreconciled with one another and with modern surveys.Even the words of Herodotus (St* Si x**?0*0''/1"^1ion kqX bpvKT-rj) may apply to the canal, whichwas of considerable extent, beginning at Hcnnopolis(Adununecn), and running 4 leagues \V., and thenturning from K. to S. for 3 leagues more, untilit reaches the lake. Modern writers frequentlyreproach the ancient* with assigning an incredibleextent to the lake; and some of them surmise thatHerodotus and Strabo do not speak of the samewaters. But the moderns Itave mostly restrictedthemselves to the canal, and have either not explored!Moeris itself, the NW shores of which are scarcely jknown, or have not made allowance for its dimi- {nut ion by the encroaching sands and the detritus!of (alien embankment* I We infer, therefore, that the lake Moeris is tnatural lake, about the size of th:»t of Orwra. *>iwas originally a depression of the limestone i4s!r»a.which intersects in this latitude the rallry of theNile. Even in its diminished extent it is still atleast 30 miles long, nnd 7 broad. Its din"rt>siis from SW. to NK.( with a considerable curve -relbow to the E. The present level of its surface isnearly the same with that of the Mediterranean,with which indeed, according to a tradition ment>xi*dby Herodotus, it was connected by a subterraneanoutlet into the Syrtes. If the lake", indeed, enrdischarged any portion of its waters into the ki,it must have been in pre-historic times. The waters of Moeris are impregnated with thtalkaline salts of the neighbouring desert, and willthe depositions—muriate of lime — of the «r-rounding hills. But, although brackish, they are n*4so saline as to be noxious to fish or to the crocoJ.l*,which in ancient times were kept in preserve*, andtamed by the priests of the Arsinoite nome. (Strife,xvii. p. 112; Aelian, J fist. A. x~ 24.) The fish­eries of the lake, especially at the point where thesluices regulated the influx of the Bakr-Jmsuf, werevery productive. The revenue derived from thruwas, in the Pharaonic era, applied to the parrhsatof the queen's wardrobe and jierfumes*. l"iv>r '.*■#Persian kings they yielded, during the *ea*i4i ofinundation, when the canal fed the lake, a talent ofsilver daily to the royal treasury (150/.) Ihirir^the rest of the year, when the waters ebbed towanlithe Nile, the rent was 30 minae, or GO/., daily. Ismodern times the right of fishing in the lirrbtt-ft-Ktrun has been farmed for 13 purses, or about $4/.,yearly. (Laborde. He cue Fran^aist, 1829. p. 67.)It is probable, indeed, that a copious infusion uf Nilewater is required to render that of Moeris pslstahisto man, or salutary for list). To Thoutmosis III. the Aegyptians were pro­bably indebted for the canal which connected thelake of Moeris with the Nile. It may haw been,in part, a natural channel, but its dykes and em­bankments were constructed and kept hi repair byman. There is, indeed, some difficulty respectm?the influx and reflux of the water, since the level ofthe liahr-Jusuf is much higher than tliat of theArsinoite nome and the lake; and Herodotus seemsto say (ii. 149) that the waters returned by thesame channel by which they eutered Moeris. Asmention is made, however, of sluices at their pratof Junction, it is possible that a series of Aoodj^at**retained or impelled the water. The main dykeran between the Memphite and Arsinoite mime*. Belzoni found remains of ancient cities on lbswestern side of Moeris, and is disposed to place t**Great Labyrinth in that quarter. But if w« torn?trust the accounts of the best ancient writers, itcertainly was not on that side of the lake. Itsshores and islands were, however, covered withbuildings. Of the ruins of Arsinoe mem ■« hasbeen made already, lint Herodotus tells an extra­ordinary story of pyramids seated in the lake it**./(/. c):—** About the middle of it are two pyramal*.each rising 300 feet above the water; thai partthat is under the water is just the same 1m :*bt tnthe top of each is a colossus of st*>ne sntvd i» achair.** This account is singular, as implying thatpyramidal buildings were sometimes employed asthe lu>es of statues. Hut it is impomibie to re­concile this statement with the ascertained d«*j<h vtthe litritt tl-Kc, tin, which uu an average tkra