OCR Output 336 ', TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. equivocal expression he generally made use of, was con-strueO by the Fidenates 11110 an order to murder the aru-bassuviiM.-. But it is hardly possible, that the kingwould have been so very intent on his game, as not tobe diverted by the arrival of his new allies the Fidenates,to consult him concerning a murder, contrary to the lawof nations; or that afterwards, he should not have ex­pressed his detestation of so horrible a deed. It is moreprobable, that it was a digested plan, to secure the Fide-nates fftectaally to his interest, by the guilt of so blacka crime; which must make a breach betwixt the Ro­mans and them never to be made up. The statues of the ambassadors, who were murderedat Fidenae, were erected in the Rostra at the public ex-pence. The prospect of a bloody battle, won with- theconfederate troops of the Vejentes and Fidenates, whobesides their living in the neighbourhood, had in effectcommenced hostilities, in au instance of the most shock­ing barbarity, kept the people and their tribunes fromraising a disturbance, or clogging the wheels of govern­ment, so that M. Geganius for the third time, with L.Sergius Fidenas were chosen consuls without opposition.It is very probable that Sergius got the sirname of Fi­denas, from the war which he conducted afterwards.For he was the first who measured swords with the kingof the Vejentes, on this side the Anio, and came off vic­torious: bu| it cost him dear: for which reason, Romewas more afflicted for the loss of many citizens, thanelated with joy for the defeat of the enemy. Upon this event, as was usual in cases of danger, thesenate ordered Mamcrcus .SSmilius to be created dictator.For master of the horse he named L. QuinctiusCincinna-tus, a young nobleman worthy of so great a father,who the year before had been one of his colleagues inthe office of military tribune with consular power. Atthe levy made by the consuls, the old centurions, ofgreat valour and experience, entered themselves for theservice, and the places of those who fell in the last ac­tion were totally filled up. The dictator ordered Quin-tius Capitol in us , and M. Fabins Vibulanu? , to atiend himin quality of lieutenants. The enemy fmding they ha.1now to do with a general invested with unlimited power,