OCR Output an. 538.] 385 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. they had filled themselves, he gave fartherorder that Daniel's enemies should be castinto the den; that he might learn whetherthe lions, now they were* full, would touchthem or not.* And it appeared plainly toDarius, after the princes had been cast to thewild beasts, that it was God who preservedDaniel. tFor the lions spared none of them;but tore them all to pieces, as if they hadbeen very hungry and wanted food. I sup­pose therefore it was not their hunger, whichhad been a little before satisfied with abun­dance of flesh, but the wickedness of thesemen that provoked them to destroy theprinces. For if it so please God, that wick­edness might by even those irrational crea­tures, be esteemed a plain foundation fortheir punishment. When therefore those that had intendedthus to destroy Daniel by treachery, werethemselves destroyed, king Darius sent lettersover all his country, and praised that Godwhom Daniel worshipped; and said, that hewas the only true God, and had power. Healso held Daniel in very great esteem; andmade him the principal of his friends. Nowwhen Daniel was become so illustrious andfamous, on account of the opinion men hadthat he was beloved of God, he built a Jtowerat Ecbatana in Media. It was a most ele­gant building, and wonderfully made, and itis still remaining, and preserved to this day.And to such as see it, it appears to have beenlately built, and to have been no older thanthat very day when any one looks upon it;it is ||so fresh and beautiful, and no waygrown old in so long a time. For buildingssuffer the same as men do, they grow old, as well as they, and by numbers of years theirstrength is dissolved, and their beautywithered. Now they bury the kings of Media,of Persia, and Parthia in this tower, to thisday, and he who was intrusted with the careof it, was a Jewish priest; which thing is alsoobserved to this day. But it is proper togive an account of what this man did; for hewas so happy, as to have strange revelationsmade to him, and those as to one of thegreatest of the prophets; insomuch thatwhile he was alive, he had the esteem andapplause both of kings and of the multitude;and now he is dead he retains a remembrancethat will never fail. For the several booksthat he wrote and left behind him, are stillread by us, till this time; and from them webelieve that he conversed with God; for henot only prophesied of future events, as didthe other prophets; but he also determinedthe time of their accomplishment. And whileprophets used to foretell misfortunes, and onthat account were disagreeable both to thekings and the multitude; Daniel was to thema prophet of good things, and this to such adegree, that, by the agreeable nature of hispredictions, he procured the good will of allmen; and by the accomplishment of them heprocured the belief of their truth, and theopinion of a sort of divinity for himself amongthe multitude. He also wrote and left be­hind him what evinced the accuracy andundeniable veracity of his predictions. Forhe saith, that when he was in Susa the metro­polis of Persia, and went out into the fieldwith his companions, there was on the suddena motion and concussion of the earth; andthat he was left alone by himself, his friends * The lex talionis condemned all calumniators to thesame sort of punishment which they intended to havebrought upon others; and in this case, among the Per­sians, it was a frequent thing to include all the family inthe penalty inflicted on the father; but, abominandae leges(says Ammianus Marcellinus) per quas, ob novara unius,omnis propinquitas perit. Calmed Comtnentary. B. t It is no way improbable that Daniel's enemies mightsuggest this reason to the king, why the lions did notmeddle with him; and that they might suspect the king'skindness to Daniel had procured these lions to be so filledbeforehand; and that thence it was that he encouragedDaniel to submit to this experiment, in hope of comingoff safe! and that this was the true reason of making soterrible an experiment upon those his enemies and alltheir families. Daniel vi. 24. Though our other copiesdo not directly take notice of it. % Of this Baris or tower, built by Daniel, whether it were at Ecbatana in Media, as Josephus's present copieshave it; or at Susa in Persia, as Jerome quotes it fromhis copies of Josephus, is hard to determine. Dean Pri-deaux thinks Jerome's to be the true reading; and thatthis tower was at Susa. Connex. part 1. at the year 634.I! What Josephus here says, that the stones of the se­pulchres of the kings of Persia at this Baris, or those per­haps of the same sort that are now commonly called theruins of Persepolis, continued so entire and unaltered inhis days, as if they were lately put there, " 1," says Re-land, " here can shew to be true, as to those stones of thePersian king's mausoleum which Corn. Brunius brake offand gave me." He ascribed this to the hardness of thestones; which scarcely yields to iron tools; and provesfrequently too hard for cutting by the chisel, but often­times breaks the chisel to pieces. See the like as to theArmenian buildings of Semiramis, in Moses Chorenensis,page 46.