OCR Output THESSALIA. 1167 THESSALIA. rtes (fl^t itAe*. vi. p. 265), this can only be truei * put of them tribe*, as we know that the Penestaetit entirely distinct from the subject Perrhaebians,la^arlea, and Achaean*. (AristoU Polit ii. 6. § 3.)v iVorttae, like the Laconian Helots, frequentlyw ia revolt against their masters.Jn tlie Homeric poems the names of Perrhaebi,Ucnrte*, Achaeaus, and Do)opes occur; ami Aehaeaf.Uiiotb was the residence of the great hero Acliiltes.",m district was the seat of llellen, the founder of,e Hrlknic race, and contained the original Hellas,hi which the Hellenes gradually spread over the-i J Greece. (Horn. 11 ii. 683; Time. i. 3;;r»k ix, p. 431; Dicaearch. p. 21, ed. Hudson;■ryh. B. #. c. 'EAAotf)- The Achaean* of Phthi-it nay fairly be regarded as the same race as therosesns of Peloponnesus. I'hrvaly Proper was divided at an early period:>j four districts or tetrsxehies, named Thessaliotis,•kviotia, Hibtiaeotia and Phthiotis. When thisruioo was introduced is unknown. It was older->n Ilecatseus (Steph. B. a. v. Kpavvwv), and was<T.t»d to Aleuas, the founder of the family of the>-uulae, (Hellenic Fraym. 28, ed. Didot; Jlar-ml.».r. T«Tpapxia; Strsb. ix. p. 430.) ThisxJruple division continued to the latest times, and'".«to have been instituted for political purposes; respecting the internal government of each we<e no precise information. The four districtstv nominally united under a chief magistrate,l«l Tagus; but he seems to have been only ap-i'Ued in war, and his commands were frequently-Vyed by the Tbessalian cities. "When ThessalytiinJer a Tagus," said Jason, despot of Pherae,its* can send into tlie field an army of 6000'dry ami 10.000 hoplitcs.** (Xen. Hell. vi. 1. ). But Thessaly was rarely united. Tlief-rrnt cities, upon which the smaller towns were1' odent, not only administered their own affairsi-prndnit of one anotlter, but the three mostrwrtant, Larinsa, Pharsalus and Pherae, wereipently at feud with one another, and at the same■* t.irn with intestine faction. Hence they werein to (tfer little resistance to invaders, and nevertapted that position in Grecian history to whichnr population and wealth would seem to have'•t>d them. (Respecting the Thessalians in■serai, ace sir. Grote's excellent remarks, Hist. Irrrrce, vol. U. p. 363, f«|.) lit* hUtsry of Theasaly may be briefly dismissed,it* most important events are related under thevite cities. Before the Persian invasion, thehad extended their power as far asireatened to overrun Phocisd the country of the Locrians. The Phociansill a wall across the pass of Thermopylse to keepthe Tbeasalians; and though active hostilitiesas to bare ceased before the Persian invasion, as■ wall wss at that time in ruins, the two nationstinned to cherish bitter animosity towards one•*a#r. (Herod, vii. 176.) When Xerxes invaded-"^e. tlie Tnessalians were st first opposed to tlie-tins. It is true that the powerful family of» Akruadas, whom Herodotus calls (vii. 6) kingsr>nasaly. had urged Xerxes to invade Greece,i Itssi promised tlie early submission of their■o trims; but it is evident that their party wasit is probable that they werein exile, like the Athenian Peisistratidue.of the Thessalians sent envoys to theat the Isthmus, urging them to send a force to the pass of Tempo, and promisingthem active co-operation in the defence. Tlieir re­quest was complied with, aud a body of 10,000heavy-armed infantry was despatched to Thessaly;but the Grecian commander.-, upon arriving atTempe, found that there was another pass acrossMount Olympus, and believing it impossible tomake any effectual resistance north of Thermopylae,retreated to their ships and abandoned Thessaly.(Herod, vii. 172, seq.) The Thessalians, thus de­serted, hastened to make their submission to Xerxes;and under the influence of the Alcuadae, who nowregained the ascendency in Thessuly, they renderedzealous and effectual assistance to the Persians.Afier the death of Leonidas and his heroic com­panions at Thermopylae, the Thessalians gratifiedtheir enmity against the Phocians by directing tliemarch of tlie Persians against the Phucian townsand laying their country waste with fire and sword. Prom tlie Persian to the PelopouneMan wars theThessalians are rarely mentioned. After the battleof Oenophyta (u. c. 456) had given the Atheniansthe ascendency in Boeotia, Locris, and Phocis, theyendeavoured to extend their power over Thessaly.With this view they marched into Thessaly underthe command of Myronides in ». c 454, for thepurpose of restoring Orestes, one of tlie exiled no­bles or princes of Pharsalus, whom Thucydidcs callsson of the king of the Thessalians. Tlie progressof Myronides was checked by tlie powerful Thes-saiiau cavalry; and though he advanced as faras Pharsalus, he was unable to accomplish any.thing against the city, and was compelled to re­treat. (Time. i. Ill; Diodor. xi. 85.) In thePeloponnesi.w War the Thessalians took no jart;but the mass of the population wus friendly to theAthenians, though the oligarchical governmentsfavoured the Spartans. With the assistance of theUtter, combined with his own rapidity and address,Brasidas contrived to march through Thessaly inn. c 424, on his way to attack the Athenian de­pendencies in Macedonia (Thuc. iv. 78); butwhen tlie Lacedaemonians wished to send rein­forcements to Brasidas in the following year, theThessalians positively refused them a passagethrongh tlieir country. (Thuc. iv. 132.) In b. c395 the Thessalians joined the Boeotians and theirallies in the league against .Sparta; and whenAgesilaus marched through their country in thefollowing year, having been recalled by the Spartangovernment from Asia, they endeavoured to intercepthim on his return; but their cavalry was defeatedby the skilful manoeuvres of Agesilaus. (Xen.UtU. vi. 3. § 3, seq.) About this time or a little earlier an importantchange took place in the political condition and re­lative importance of the Tbessalian cities. Almostdown to the end of the Peloponnesian War thepowerful families of the Aleuadae at Larissa, of tlieScopadae at Crannon, and of the Creondac atPharsalus, possessed the chief power in Thessaly.But shortly before the close of thia war Pherae roseinto importance under the administration of Lyco-pliron, and aspired to the supremacy of Thessaly.Lycophron overthrew the government of tlie noblesat Pherae, and made himself tyrant of the city. Inprosecution of his ambitious schemes he attackedLarissa; and in B.C. 404 he gained a great victoryover the I-arissaeans and the other ThessslianVwho were opposed to him. (Xen. I/tlL ii. 3. § 4.)In n. c. 395 Lycouhron was blill engaged in a aw*-