OCR Output 514 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. thers, and to persist therein. It will be there­fore good for you, if you have made any de­cree against these our friends and confede­rates, to abrogate the same; by reason oftheir virtue and kind disposition towards us." Now after Caius was slain, when MarcusAntonius and Publius Dolabella were con­suls, they both assembled the senate, and in­troduced Hyrcanus's ambassadors into it, anddiscoursed of what they desired, and made aleague of friendship with them. The senatealso agreed to grant them all they desired.I add the decree itself: that those who readthe present work, may have ready by them ademonstration of the truth of what we say. "The decree of the senate, copied out ofthe treasury, from the public tables belongingto the quaestors; when Quintus Rutilius, andCaius Cornelius, were quaestors; and takenout of the second table, of the first class. Onthe third day before the ides of April, in thetemple of Concord. There were present atthe writing of this decree, Lucius CulpurniusPiso, of the Menenian tribe; Servius Papi-nius Potitus, of the Lemonian tribe; CaiusCaninius Rebilius, of the Tarentine tribe;Publius Tidetius; Lucius Apulinus, the sonof Lucius, of the Sergian tribe; Flavius, theson of Lucius, of the Lemonian tribe; Pub­lius Platius, the son of Publius, of the Papy-rian tribe; Marcus Acilius, the son of Mar­cus, of the Mecian tribe; Lucius Erucius, theson of Lucius, of the Stellatine tribe; MarcusQuintius Plancillus, the son of Marcus, of thePollian tribe; and Publius Serius. PubliusDolabella, and Marcus Antonius, the consuls,made this reference to the senate; that as tothose things which, by the decree of the se­nate, Caius Caesar had adjudged about theJews, and yet had not hitherto that decreebrought into the treasury; it is our will,as it is also the desire of Publius Dolabella,and Marcus Antonius, our consuls, to havethese decrees put into the public tables, andbrought to the city quaestors, that they maytake care to have them put upon the doubletables. This was done before the fifth of theides of February, in the temple of Concord.Now the ambassadors from Hyrcanus thehigh-priest were Lysimachus, the son of Pau-sanias; Alexander, the son of Theodorus;Patroclus, the son of Chereas; and Jonathan,the son of Onias." Hyrcanus sent also one of these ambassa­dors to Dolabella, who was then the prefectof Asia, and desired him to dismiss the Jewsfrom military services; and to preserve tothem the customs of their forefathers; and topermit them to live according to them. Andwhen Dolabella had received Hyrcanus's let­ter, without any farther deliberation, he sentan epistle to all the Asiatics; and particularlyto the city of the Ephesians, the metropolisof Asia, about the Jews. A copy of whichepistle here follows:— "When Artemon was prytanis, on the firstday of the month Leneon, Dolabella, impera-tor, to the senate, and magistrates, and peopleof the Ephesians, sendeth greeting. Alexan­der, the son of Theodorus, the ambassador ofHyrcanus, the son of Alexander, the high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews, appearedbefore me, to shew that his countrymen couldnot go into their armies, because they are notallowed to bear arms, or to travel on the sab­bath days; nor there to procure themselvesthose sorts of food which they have been usedto eat, from the times of their forefathers. Itherefore grant them a freedom from goinginto the army, as the former prefects havedone; and permit them to use the customs oftheir forefathers, in assembling together forsacred and religious purposes, as their lawrequires; and for collecting oblations neces­sary for sacrifices; and my will is, that youwrite this to the several cities under yourjurisdiction." Those were the concessions that Dolabellamade to our nation, when Hyrcanus sent anambassage to him. But Lucius the consul'sdecree ran thus: "I have at my tribunal setthose Jews, who are citizens of Rome, andfollow the Jewish religious rites, and yet liveat Ephesus, free from going into the army, onaccount of the superstition they are under.This was done before the twelfth of the ca­lends of October, when Lucius Lentulus andCaius Marcellus were consuls. In the pre­sence of Titus Appius Balgus, the son of Ti­tus, and lieutenant, of the Horatian tribe; ofTitus Tongius, the son of Titus, of the Crus-tamine tribe; of Quintus Resius, the son ofQuintus: of Titus Pompeius Longinus, theson of Titus; of Caius Servilius, the son ofCaius, of the Tarentine tribe; of Brncchus,the military tribune: of PuWiup Lucius Gal