OCR Output PHOCUSAE.605 PHOENICIA. s «nd the Boeotian frontier, D.ui.ts,iunn, Tbachu. On Mount Parnassus, Ly-*iia, Daunt, Cbissa, Axemoreia. Cypakis-la. Wat of Panaaeua. and in the neighbourhoodti- Corinthian gulf from N. to S„ Cirriia, thert-urwn of Crista and Delphi, CliU'His, Medeox, RI-OAHEU, A.VTK'YRA. AmBKYSCS. MaKA- ita. Sims, Piilygosiim, Boua with its portIran. (DodweJl, Clatrical Tour, vol. i. p. 155,r. Leake, S -rtl.rm Greece, vol. ii. p. 69, seq.) coia or mocis. fHiXIU-SAE, PHUCUSSAE (♦»«w<u, PtoL: ,"5 ; +wro£ffffai, Athen. i. p. 30, d.; Hesych.. Steps. B.), islands lying off Zephyrium in-iiTa(W«r«i Labtit), wlu'ch theCoast-describer■fans, $ SO) calls Delpiiises. [K. It. J.]HotfiATAE, PHOEBA'TIS. [Dassaue- LBLA. [Hii-iiia.]i- -LSI C'E (♦ou/iaTi), a city of Chaonia inraw ataated a little inland north of Buthrotum■e. rn_ p. 324), upon a river, the ancient namesaa a nut recorded. It is described by Polybius,. • 2 to, as Use strongest, most powerful, andac x toe cxtwa of Epeirus. (Polyb. ii. 5, 8.)at fear it was captured by a party of Iilyrians,an ry some Gallic mercenaries; and the Epirots, a- uarcbed to the rescue of the place, were•ami by a sally of the Iilyrians from the city,am a> the root with great slaughter. (Polyb. rhomce continued to be an important city,t was hare that a treaty of peace was negotiatedan Ptibp and the Komans towards the close of■bad Panic War, B. c. 204. (Liv. xxix. 12;a axoi. X7.) Pbuenice appears to have escapeda> of the* other Epeirot cities, when tfiey werejaai by order of the senate, through the influ-af Caarena, one of its citizens. (Polyb. xxxiLi h a ■•rationed by Ptolemy (iii. 14. § 7) and■am (p. ($2), and was restored by Justinian,■a ai Ardif. 1.) Procopios says that itBaaed in a low spot, surrounded by marshes,(as Jattiaian built a citadel upon a neigh-ar, af The remains of the ancient city are tanas a till which still bears the name of* Tan entire bill was surrounded by Hellenicth-eastern extremity was then length, some of the walls offrom 12 to 20 feet in height,middle of the height is the cm*Large theatre, the only remains1 piece of rough wail, which en-tbe upper seats; at the bottom,af the scene, is a small circular found-of a town of a later date. ft gsn, si— north western end of the citadelteaasna af a Hot nan construction, built in- (Leake Sorthern Greece, vol. i. era KPCIA, atar k. by on the coast of Syria, I. Name. Its Greek name was ♦oiWxn (Horn. Oil. iv. 83;Herod, iii. 5; Thnryd. ii. 69; Strab. p. 756: Ptol.v. 15. § 21, &c), which in the best Latin writers isliterally rendered Phoenice (Cic. Acad. ii. 20; Tac.//. v. 6; Mela, i. 12; Plin. v. 13, &c), and in laterauthors Phoenicia (Serv. ad Virg. Aen. i. 446; Mart.Capell. vi. 219, &c), and once in a 6uspected passagoof Cicero, (fin. iv. 20.) The latter form has,however, prevailed among the moderns. By thePhoenicians themselves, and by the Israelites, theirland was called Canaan, or Chna; an appellationwhich embraced the whole district between theriver Jordan and the Mediterranean. In Genesisthe name of Canaan ocenrs only as that of a per­son, and the country is described as "the land ofCanaan." In the tenth chapter of that book thefollowing tribes are mentioned; the Arvadites,Sinites, Arkites, and Zeuiarites, whose sites may beidentified with Aradns, Sinna, Area, and Simyra;whilst the name of Sidon, described as the firstbornof Canaan, marks one of the most important of thePhoenician towns. Tho abbreviated form Chna(XfS) occurs in a fragment of Hecataeus (Fragm.llistor. Graec. p. 17, Paris, 1841), and in Ste­phanos Byzantinns («. c.): and the translation ofSanconiatho by Philo, quoted by Eusebius (Praejj.Erang. i. p. 87, ed. Gaisford) records the change ofthis appellation into Phoenix. The Septuagint fre­quently renders the Hebrew Canaan and Canaaniteby Phoenicia and Phoenician. In Hebrew, Chna orCanaan signifies a low or flat land, from W3, "tobslow," in allusion to the low land of the coast. ItsGreek name ♦of»'i{ has been variously deduced fromthe brother of Cadmus, from the palm-tree, from thepurple or blood-red dye. (potv6s, which formed thostaple of Phoenician commerce, and from tho RedSea, or Mare Erythraean), where the Phoeniciansare supposed to have originally dwelt. (Steph. Ii.■■. v.; Sil. Ital. i. 89; Hesych. ». r. Qotvdv • Ach.Tatius, ii. 4; Strab. i. p. 42, &c.) Of all theseetymologies the second is the most probable, as itaccords with the practice of antiquity in many otherinstances. II. Physical Geography.The boundaries of Phoenicia arc not very clearlylaid down in ancient writers. The Mediterraneansea on the W. and Lebanon on the E. form naturallimits; but on tho N. and S. they are variouslyfixed. According to Herodotus the N. boundary ofPhoenicia was tho bay of Myriandrus, whilst on the 5. it terminated a little below Mount Camiel, orwhere the territory of Judaea touched the sea (iu. 6, iv. 38. vii. 89). Strabo makes it extend fromOrthosis on the N., to Pelusium in Egypt on theS. (xvi. pp. 753, 756). But Phoenicia, consideredas a political confederation, neither reached so farN. as the lioundary of Herodotus, nor so far S. asthat of Strabo. Myriandrus was indeed inltabiteilby Phoenicians; but it appears to have been onlya colony, and was separated from Phoenicia, pro­perly so called, by an intervening tract of the Syriancoast. (Xcnoph. AmU>. i. 4. § 6.) The more accu­rate boundaries of Phoenicia, and which will beadopted here, are those laid down by Pliny (v. 17),which include it between Aradus on the N., and theriver Chorseas or Crocodilon on the S. The samelimits are given in Ptolemy (v. 15. § 4), except