OCR Output 368 ROMAN EMPIRE. suers; the gorgeous trophy was presented to the com­mander of the faithful, and the gravest of the com­panions condescended to smile when they beheld thewhite beard, hairy arms, and uncouth figure, of theveteran, who was invested with the spoils of the greatking.0 The sack of Ctesiphon was followed by its de­sertion and gradual decay. The Saracens dis-tion of liked the air and situation of the place, and Omarwas advised by his general to remove the seat ofgovernment to the western side of the Euphrates. Inevery age the foundation and ruin of the Assyrian citieshas been easy and rapid; the country is destitute ofstone and timber, and the most solid structures'1 are com­posed of bricks baked in the sun, and joined by a cementof the native bitumen. The name of Cufa" describes ahabitation of reeds and earth; but the importance of thenew capital was supported by the numbers, wealth, andspirit, of a colony of veterans; and their licentiousnesswas indulged by the wisest caliphs, who were appre­hensive of provoking the revolt of a hundred thousandswords. Ye men of Cufa (said Ali, who solicited theiraid), you have been always conspicuous by your valour.You conquered the Persian king, and scattered his forces,till you had taken possession of his inheritance. Thismighty conquest was achieved by the battles of Jalulaand Nehavend. After the loss of the former, Yezdegerdfled from Holwan, and concealed his shame and despairin the mountains of Farsistan, from whence Cyrus haddescended with his equal and valiant companions. Thecourage of the nation survived that of the monarch;among the hills to the south of Ecbatana or Hamadan,one hundred and fifty thousand Persians made a third 1 See Gagnier. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 376, 377. I may credit the fact,without believing the prophecy. * The most considerable ruins of Assyria are the tower of Belus at Babylon, andthe hall of Chosroes at Ctesiphon: they have been visited by that vain and curioustraveller Pietro della Valle. (torn. 1. p. 713—718. 731—735.) <• Consult the article of Coufah in the Bibliotheque of d'Herbelot, (p. 277, ¥16.)and the second volume of Ocklry's History, particularly p. 40. and 153.