OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 33 they could not work next day. Nevertheless the Romansventured on the assault; but they found the breach andthe portions of the wall and houses in the neighbourhoodso strongly occupied, and advanced with such imprudence,that they were repulsed with severe loss and would havesuffered still greater damage, had not the military tribuneScipio jEmilianus, foreseeing the issue of the foolhardyattack, kept together his men in front of the walls and thusintercepted the fugitives. Manilius accomplished still lessagainst the impregnable wall of the citadel. The siege thuslingered on. The diseases engendered in the camp by theheat of summer, the departure of Censorinus the ablergeneral, the ill-humour and inaction of Massinissa who wasnaturally far from pleased to see the Romans taking forthemselves the booty which he had long coveted, and thedeath of the king at the age of ninety which ensued soonafter (end of 605), utterly arrested the offensive operations 149.of the Romans. They had enough to do in protecting theirships against the Carthaginian incendiaries and their campagainst nocturnal surprises, and in securing food for their menand horses by the construction of a harbour-fort and byforays in the neighbourhood. Two expeditions directedagainst Hasdrubal remained without success; and in factthe first, badly led over difficult ground, had almost termi­nated in a formal defeat. But, while the course of the warwas inglorious for the general and the army, the militarytribune Scipio achieved in it brilliant distinction. It washe who, on occasion of a nocturnal attack by the enemy onthe Roman camp, starting with some squadrons of horse andtaking the enemy in rear, compelled him to retreat. Onthe first expedition to Nepheris, when the passage of theriver had taken place in opposition to his advice andhad almost occasioned the destruction of the army, by abold attack in flank he relieved the pressure on the retreat­ing troops, and by his devoted and heroic courage rescued adivision which had been given up as lost. While the otherofficers, and the consul in particular, by their perfidy, deterredthe towns and party-leaders that were inclined to negotiate,Scipio succeeded in inducing one of the ablest of the latter,Himilco Phameas, to pass over to the Romans with 2200cavalry. Lastly, after he had in fulfilment of the charge ofthe dying Massinissa divided his kingdom among his threesons, Micipsa, Gulussa, and Mastanabal, he brought to the VOL. III. D