OCR Output 438 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVL perience of seven hundred years might convince the ri­val nations of the impossibility of maintaining their con­quests, beyond the.fatal limits of the Tigris and Eu­phrates. Yet the emulation of Trajan and Julian wasawakened by the trophies of Alexander, and the sove­reigns of Persia indulged the ambitious hope of restoringthe empire of Cyrus.a Such extraordinary efforts ofpower and courage will always command the attention ofposterity; but the events by which the fate of nations isnot materially changed, leave a faint impression on thepage of history, and the patience of the reader would beexhausted by the repetition of the same hostilities, un­dertaken without cause, prosecuted without glory, andterminated without effect. The arts of negotiation, un­known to the simple greatness of the senate and theCassars, were assiduously cultivated by the Byzantineprinces ; and the memorials of their perpetual embassies1"repeat, with the same uniform prolixity, the language offalsehood and declamation, the insolence of the barba­rians, and the servile temper of the tributary Greeks.Lamenting the barren superfluity of materials, I havestudied to compress the narrative of these uninterestingtransactions: but the just Nushirvan is still applaudedas the model of oriental kings, and the ambition of hisgrandson Chosroes prepared the revolution of the east,which was speedily accomplished by the arms and thereligion of the successors of Mahomet.Conquest In the useless altercations that precede and justify theby Ne™e" quarrels of princes, the Greeks and the barbarians ac-a'd'wo ^use^ eacn other of violating the peace which had been&c. concluded between the two empires about four years be­fore the death of Justinian. The sovereign of Persia andIndia aspired to reduce under his obedience the province * Miss! qui. . . reposcerent. . . veteres Persarum ac Macedonum terminos, sequeinvasurum posscssa Cyro et post Alexandre, per vaniloquentiam ac minus jaciebat.Tacit. Annal. 6. 31. Such was the language of the Arsacidae; I have repeatedlymarked the lofty claims of the Sassanians. h See the emhassies of Menander, extracted and preserved in the tenth century bythe order of Constautiae Porpbyrogcuitus.