OCR Output Discourse hi. lvii give, perhaps applaud him, for his great care to preventconfusion, and to give a neat and precise conception of allthat passeth. He constantly gives notice, when he is ne­cessitated, by the method he laid down for himself, to makesuch transitions: And, when we have been amused withwhat looks like a ramble from an engaging part of history,but is really a coincidence of events not to pass unheeded jwhen we have been so long at it, that we are convinced itlies in the road, and is no excursion at all; yet we are gladto see him re-connect, and land us on a spot, where we arealready well acquainted. He shews a steady and inviolableattachment to chronology, a necessary attendant upon his­tory. But the chronology of Thucydides is like a herald,that exactly marshals a long stately procession, adjusts therank, clears the way, and preserves every step distinct andunincumbered. No writer had done this before him. No settled JErawas yet in use, not even the famous one of the Olympiad.The several States of Greece computed time by a methodof their own. It was not easy to make those methods coin­cide with one another. The Athenians reckoned by theirannual archons; the Lacedaemonians by their ephori; theArgives by the years of the priestess of Juno. The seasonsof the year, when the two former entered on their offices,were fixed, but did not suit together in point of time ; thebeginning of the years of the latter was variable, since itdepended on the death or removal of a predecessor. Thu­cydides, to avoid confusion, left all these artificial jarringrules, and adhered to the course of nature. He divided thenatural year into two halves, into a summer and winter. Hissummer includes the spring, and reacheth from the vernalto the autumnal equinox; the other half-year is compre­hended in his winter. He always records eclipses, as strangeevents, and proper concomitants for the horrors of this war.I must not be so sanguine as to imagine, that he supposedsuch appearances might some time or other be reduced to Vol. I. H