OCR Output SYRACUSAE. SYRACUSAE. 1063 'r the purpose of facilitating the communicationnth "toe outer city," as that on the mainland wasKen railed. At a later period it was again severedram the land, probably by the elder Dionysius, whenie constructed his great docks in the two ports.It was, however, undoubtedly always connected withtie mainland by a bridge, or series of bridges, as iti »t the present day. The citadel or castle, con­tacted by Dionysius, stood within the island, but^mediately fronting the mainland, and closely ad-uaing the docks or navalia in the Lesser Port.:* front towards the mainland, which appear? toare been strongly fortitied, was known as the Pen-apyla (v« wtrrdwuXa, Plut. JHon. 29); and thiskids to hare looked directly upon the Agora or"rum, which we know to have been situated on theinland. It is therefore clear that the citadel mustnve occupied nearly the same position with the..•jdern fortifications which form the defence of Sy-mne on the land side. These were constructedi the reign of Charles V., when the isthmus byrhkh Ortygia had been reunited to the mainland-i cut through, as well as a Roman aqueduct de­igned to supply this quarter of the city with water, i utracted, as it appeared from an inscription, bylie emperor Claudius. (Fazell. Sic. iv. i. p. 169 ) Ortygia was considered from an early time as^serrated to Artemis or Diana (Diod. v. 3),!*Tire Pindar terms it "the couch of Artemis,"id "the sister of Delos" (hiuviov 'AprtfuBos,t.-Ui U maakyv6.ro., A em. L 3). Hence, as we learn>«n Cicero (J. c), one of the principal edifices in> island was a temple of Diana. Some remainsT this are supposed to be still extant in the NK. rner of the modern city, where two columns, with{(Ttiou of their architrave, of the Doric order, areMill into the walls of a private house. From theand character of these it is evident that theiJice was one of very remote antiquity. Much;«t# considerable remains are extant of the other■n:p]i\ ni diced by the orator in the same passage—u: uf Minerva. This was one of the most mag-ifecent in Sicily. Its doors, composed of gold andary, and conspicuous for their beautiful workman-up, were celebrated throughout the Grecian world:Ue the interior was adorned with numerous paint-r*. among which a series representing one of theitti» of Agathocles was especially celebrated. All*•* works of art, which had been spared by thetv-r«jtv of Marccllus, were carried off by the in-ttaole Verres- (Cic. Verr. iv. 55, 56.) On theuanrit of the temple was a shield, which served asU-'klinark to sailors quitting or approaching theTt. (Polemon, ap. A then. xi. p. 462.) Thereli be no doubt that this temple, which must haveood en the highest point of the island, is the same: u l has been converted into the modern cathedral- church of Sia Maria delle Colonne. The co-r:;n» <«" the sides, fourteen in number, are still per-■t, though built into the walls of the church; butfirtico and Jaqade were destroyed by an earth-take. It was of the Doric order, and its dimcn-cs (185 feet in length by 75 in breadth), whicharty approach those <if the great temple of Nep- ii * at Paestum, show that it must have belongedLSe first class of ancient edifices of this deserip- au. The style of the architectural details and^-portions of the columns would render it probableBit temple may be referred to the sixth cen-rr n, c, that confirming an incidental notice ofisdantt (viii. Fr. 9), from which it would ap­ pear that it was built under the government of theGeomori, and therefore certainly prior to the des­potism of Gelon. No other ancient remains are nowextant in the island of Ortygia; but the celebratedfountain of Arethusa is still visible, as described byCicero, near the son them extremity of the island, onits western shore. It is still a very copious source,but scarcely answering to the accounts of its mag­nitude in ancient times; and it is probable that ithas been disturbed and its supply diminished byearthquakes, which have repeatedly afflicted themodern town of Syracuse. At the extreme point of the island, and outsidethe ancient walls, probably on the spot where thecastle built by John Maniacea now stands, was situ­ated a temple of the Olympian Juno, with an altarfrom which it was the custom for departing sailorsto take a cup with certain offerings, which they flunginto the sea when they lost sight of the shield on thetemple of Minerva (Polemon, ap. Athen. lc). Ofthe other edifices in the island the most remarkablewere the Hexecontaclinus (oTa-or 6 *E(i}KOKTcUAtForKa\ovfi€vos. Diod. xvi. 86), built, or at least finished,by Agathocles, but the purpose and nature of whichare uncertain ; the public granaries, a building of somassive and lofty a construction as to serve the pur­poses of a fortress (Lir. xxiv. 21); and the palaceof king Hieron, which was afterwards made the resi­dence of the Roman praetors (Cic. Verr. iv. 52).The site of this is uncertain: the palace of Diony­sius, which had been situated in the citadel con­structed by him, was destroyed together with thatfortress by Timoleon, and a building for the courtsof justice erected on the site. Hence it is probablethat Hieron, who was always desirous to court popu­larity, would avoid establishing himself anew uponthe same site. No trace now remains of the ancientwalls or works on this side of the island, whichhave been wholly covered and concealed by the mo­dern fortifications. The remains of a tower are,however, visible on a shoal or rock near the N. angleof the modern city, which are probably those of oneof the towers built by Agathocles to guard the en­trance of the Lesser Harbour, or Portus Lacccius(Diod. xvi. 83); but no traces have been discoveredof the corresponding tower on the other side. 2. Aciihadina ('AxpaMvy, Diod., and this seemato be the more correct form of the name, though it isfrequently written Acradina; both Livy and Cicero,however, give Achradina), or " the outer city," as itis tenned by Thucydides, was the most importantand extensive of the quarters of Syracuse. It con­sisted of two portions, comprising the eastern partof the great triangular plateau already described,which extended from the angle of Epipolae to thesea, as well as the lower and more level space whichextends from the foot of this table-land to the GreatHarbour, and borders on the marshes of Lysimcleia.This level plain, which is immediately opposite tothe island of Ortygia, is not, like the tract beyond itextending to the Anapus, low and marshy ground,but has a rocky soil, of the same limestone with thetable-land above, of which it is as it were a lowerstep. Hence the city, as soon as it extended itselfbeyond the limits of the island, spread at once overthis area; but not content with this, the inhabitantsoccupied the part of the table-laud above it nearestthe sea, which, as already mentioned in the generaldescription, is partly separated by a cross valley ordepression from the upper port of the plateau, or theheights of Epipolae. Hence this part of the city 3 t 4