OCR Output 3r6 NOTES ON THE a flying eagle. See likewise Suidas, and Eustathius on the lastbook of the IKad. Ptolemy therefore, from consuming most pro­bably a great part of every day and night on the roof o? thetemple of Canobus, in the open air, for the space of forty years,is very properly compared by Olympiodorus to Endymion. Page io. They ought to consult the Delphic Apollo, about themeans of being freed from the evils, &cj] The prodigious ad­vantages which mankind derived from prophecy, arc beautifullyffiewn by Plato in the following passage from his Phædrus: "In­deed, in the greatest diseases and labours, to which certain personsare sometimes subject, through the indignation of the gods, inConsequence of guilt; fury, when It takes place, predicting whatthey stand in need of, discovers a liberation of such evils, byflying to prayer and the worship of the gods. Hence, obtainingby this means purifications, and the advantages of initiation, itTenders such a one free from disasters, both for the present andsuture time, by discovering to him a solution of his present evil,through the means of one who is properly furious and divinelyinspired. Page 15. Homer.'] Iliad II. v. 72 r. Page 19. The golden race.] The different ages of mankindwhich are celebrated by Hefiod in his Worh and Days, signify thedifferent lives which the individuals of the human species passthrough; and, as Proclus on Hefiod beautifully observes, theymay be comprehended in this triad, the golden, the JSver, andthe brazen age. But by the golden age an intellectual life isimplied. For such a life is pure, impassive, and free from for- • row; and of this impassivity and purity gold is an image,through its never being subject to rust or putrefaction. Sucha life too is very properly said to be under Saturn, becauseSaturn, as we have before (hewn, is an intellectual god. By the Jifoer age a rustic and natural life is implied, in which the at­tention of the rational foul is entirely directed to the care ofthe body, but without proceeding to the extremity of vice. And