OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. extent, but the extent of a camp would be easily circum­scribed within the limits of a city; and its martial inha­bitants must be thinly scattered over the face of a largecountry. When Alboin descended from the Alps, heinvested his nephew, the first duke of Friuli, with thecommand of the province and the people; but the pru­dent Gisulf would have declined the dangerous office,unless he had been permitted to choose, among the no­bles of the Lombards, a sufficient number of families' toform a perpetual colony of soldiers and subjects. In theprogress of conquest, the same option could not be grant­ed to the dukes of Brescia or Bergamo, of Pavia or Tu­rin, of Spoleto or Beneventum; but each of these, andeach of their colleagues, settled in his appointed districtwith a band of followers who resorted to his standard inwar and his tribunal in peace. Their attachment was freeand honourable: resigning the gifts and benefits whichthey had accepted, they might emigrate with their fami­lies into the jurisdiction of another duke; but their ab­sence from the kingdom was punished with death, as acrime of military desertion.5 The posterity of the firstconquerors struck a deeper root in the soil, which, byevery motive of interest and honour, they were bound todefend. A Lombard was born the soldier of his kingand his duke; and the civil assemblies of the nation dis­played the banners, and assumed the appellation, of a re­gular army. Of this army, the pay and the rewards weredrawn from the conquered provinces; and the distribu­tion, which was not effected till after the death of Alboin,is disgraced by the foul marks of injustice and rapine.Many of the most wealthy Italians were slain or banished;the remainder were divided among the strangers, and atributary obligation was imposed (under the name ofhospitality), of paying to the Lombards a third part of the r Paul, lib. 2. o. 9. He calls these families or generations by the Teutonic nameof Faras, which is likewise used in the Lomhard laws. The humble deacon was not in­sensible of the nohility of his own race. See lib. 4. c. 39. ■ Compare no. 3 aud 177 of the laws ot Rotharis.