OCR Output 394 FLAVIHS JOSEPHUS [b. t durst not tell the king of these things; but that he left awriting behind him about all those matters, and then slewhimself, which made the king disconsolate." After whichhe writes thus verbatim: "After those that were sent to workin the quarries had continued in that miserable state for along while, the king was desired that he should set apart thecity of Avaris, which was then left desolate of the shepherds,for their habitation and protection ; which desire he grantedthem. Now this city, according to the ancient theology,was Typho's city. But when these men were gotten into it,and found the place fit for a revolt, they appointed them­selves a ruler out of the priests of Heliopolis, whose namewas Osarsipk, and they took their oaths that they would beobedient to him in all things. He then, in the first place,made this law for them, that they should neither worship theEgyptian gods, nor should abstain from any one of thosesacred animals which they have in the highest esteem, butkill and destroy them all: that they should join themselvesto nobody but to those that were of this confederacy. Whenhe had made such laws as these, and many more such as weremainly opposite to the customs of the Egyptians,1 he gaveorder that they should use the multitude of the hands theyhad in building walls about their city, and make themselvesready for a war with king Amenophis, while he did himselftake into his friendship the other priests, and those thatwere polluted with them, and send ambassadors to thoseshepherds who had been driven out of the land by Tethmosisto the city called Jerusalem ; whereby he informed them ofhis own affairs, and of the state of those others that hadbeen treated after such an ignominious manner, and desiredthat they would come with one consent to his assistance inthis war against Egypt. He also promised that he would,in the first place, bring them back to their ancient city andcountry, Avaris, and provide a plentiful maintenance fortheir multitude; that he would protect them and fight for 1 This is a very valuablo testimony of Manctho, that the laws of Osarsiphor Moses were not nmde in compliance with, but in oppos'tion to, the customsof the Egyptians. Sic the note on Antiq. B. iii. ch. viii sect. 9.