OCR Output 81* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. he pitched that camp before the temple, intending to make hisattacks in the same manner as did Pompey; so he encompassedthe place with three bulwarks, and erected towers, and em­ployed a great many hands about the work, and cut down thetrees that were round about the city; and when he had ap­pointed proper persons to oversee the works, even while thearmy lay before the city, he himself went to Samaria, to com­plete his marriage, and to take to wife the daughter of Alex­ander, the son of Aristobulus; for he had betrothed her already,as I have before related. CHAP. XVI. How Herod, when he had man-led Mariamne, took Jerusalem,-with the assistance of Sosius, by force; and how the govern­ment of the Asamoneans was put an end to. § 1. AFTER the wedding was over, came Sosius throughPhenicia, having sent out his army before him over the mid­land parts. He also, who was their commander, came him­self, with a great number of horsemen and footmen. Theking also came himself from Samaria, and brought with him nosmall army, besides that which was there before, for they wereabout thirty thousand: and they all met together at the walls ofJerusalem, and encamped at the north wall of the city, beingnow an army of eleven legions, armed men on foot, and sixthousand horsemen, with other auxiliaries out of Syria. Thegenerals were two, Sosius, sent by Antony to assist Herod, andHerod on his own account, in order to take the government fromAntigonus, who was declared an enemy at Rome, and that hemight himself be king, according to the decree of the senate. 2. Now the Jews that were inclosed within the walls of thecity fought against Herod with great alacrity and zeal, (for thewhole nation was gathered together;) they also gave out manyprophecies about the temple, and many things agreeable to thepeople, as if God would deliver them out of the dangers they werein; they had also carried off what was out of the city, that theymight not leave any thing to afford sustenance either for men orlor beasts: and by private robberies, they made the want of ne­cessaries greater. When Herod understood this, he opposed am­bushes in the fittest places against their private robberies, and hesent legions of armed men to bring in provisions, and that fromremote places, so that in a little time they had great plenty of pro­visions. Now the three bulwarks were easily erected, because somany hands were continually at work upon them; for it was sum­mer time, and there was nothing to hinder them in raising the:r