OCR Output CHAP. 46. ROMAN .HISTORY. 469 sacrifice peculiar to the Fabian family, which could beperformed nowhere, but on the Quirinal hill. For thispurpose, C. Fabius Dorso came down from the capitol,having his gown tucked up, and the sacred things in hishands ; passed through the enemy's guards; and withoutregard to their threats or noise, got safe to the Quirinalhill. Having performed there all the necessary cere­monies, he retumed the same way, with the same gravityof air and gesture, to the capitol, in full confidence ofthe protection of those gods, whose worship he had pre­served even at the risk of his life. The Gauls wereeither astonished at his surprising boldness,or moved witha sense of religion, which they by no means neglect. In the mean time, the army at Veii not only gainedfresh spirits, but were every day considerably reinforced,not only by 'many Romans, who had been dispersed upand down the country, after the defeat of Allia, and thecapture of Rome, but also by crowds of Latin volunteers,who joined them, that they might come in for their shareof the spoil. Now, they concluded, was the time to savetheir country, and deliver it out of the hands of the ene­my: but though they were a formidable party, they hadnone among them able to take the command. The place itself reminded them of Camillus; besidesthat, a great part of that very army had fought succes-fully under the command and auspices of that greatcaptain. Caedicius protested, ' That he would do nothing'to provoke either gods or men to put an end to his* command; but not forgetful of his rank, he would'himself demand a general.' It was unanimously agreedto send for Camillus from Ardea, but not before theyhad consulted the senate at Rome; such was their regardto propriety, and to the order prescribed by law, in all -things, even at a time when the Republic was on thebrink of ruin. To pass through the enemy's guards tothe citadel, was a dangerous attempt. Pontius Com-minius, however, a sprightly young fellow, promised to<lo his best in the business; and laying himself on thebark of a tree, was carried safely down the current of theTiber to the city. By a steep rock, on the side nextthe river, which the enemy thought unnecessary to guard,he got up with difficulty to the capitol. He was brought before the magistrates, and delivered