OCR Output 556 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tators; as it was principally by her thepoor woman was to suffer. For at the firstshe gave her not a word, nor was discom­posed at her peevishness; and only lookedat her: yet did she out of a greatness of souldiscover her concern for her mother's offence;and especially for her exposing herself in amanner so unbecoming. But as for herself,she went to her death with an unshaken firm­ness of mind and without changing colour:and thereby evidently discovered the nobilityof her descent to the spectators, even in thelast moments of her life. And thus died Mariamne: a woman of anexcellent character, both for chastity andgreatness of soul: but she wanted moderation,and had too much of contention in her nature;yet had she all that can be said in the beautyof her body, and her majestic appearance inconversation: and thence arose the greatestpart of the occasions why she did not proveso agreeable to the king, nor live so pleasantlywith him, as she might otherwise have done.For while she was most indulgently used bythe king, out of his fondness for her; and didnot expect that he could do any thing hardto her; she took too unbounded a liberty.Moreover, that which most afflicted her was,what he had done to her relations: and sheventured to speak of all they had suffered byhim. And at last greatly provoked both theking's mother and sister, till they becameenemies to her: and even he himself also didthe same; on whom alone she depended forher expectations of escaping the last ofpunishments. But when she was dead, the king's affec­tions for her were kindled in a more outra­geous manner than before: for his love to herwas not of a calm nature; nor such as weusually meet with among other husbands.For at its commencement, it was of an enthu­siastic kind. Nor was it by their long co­habitation and free conversation togetherbrought under his power to manage. Butat this time his love to Mariamne seemed toseize him in such a peculiar manner, aslooked like divine vengeance upon him, forthe taking away her life. For he would fre­quently call for her; and frequently lamentfor her, in a most violent manner. He alsobethought him of every thing he could makeuse of to divert his mind from thinking of her; and contrived feasts and assemblies forthat purpose. But nothing would suffice.He, therefore, laid aside the administrationof public affairs; and was so far conqueredby his passion, that he would order his ser­vants to call for Mariamne; as if she werestill alive, and could still hear them. Andwhen he was in this way, there arose a pes­tilential disease, and carried off the greatestpart of the multitude, and of his best andmost esteemed friends: and made all mensuspect, that this distemper was broughtupon them by the anger of God, for the in­justice that had been done to Mariamne.This circumstance affected the king stillmore; till at length he forced himself to gointo desert places; and there under pre­tence of going a hunting, bitterly afflictedhimself. Yet had he not borne his griefthere many days, before he fell into a mostdangerous distemper himself. He had aninflammation upon him, and a pain in thehinder part of his head, joined with madness.And the remedies that were used, did himno good at all; but proved contrary to hiscase, and so at length brought him to des­pair. All the physicians also that were abouthim, partly because the medicines theybrought for his recovery could not at all con­quer the disease; and partly because his dietcould be no other than what his disease in­clined him to; desired him to eat whateverhe had a mind to; and so left the small hopesthey had of his recovery in the power of thatdiet, and committed him to fortune. Andthus did his distemper go on while he was atSamaria, now called Sebaste. Alexandra, in the mean time, abode at Je­rusalem: and being informed what conditionHerod was in, she endeavoured to get pos­session of the fortified places that were aboutthe city, which were two, the one belongingto the city, the other belonging to the temple.And those that could get them into theirhands had the whole nation under theirpower. For without the command of them" itwas not possible to offer their sacrifices. Andto think of leaving off those sacrifices, is toevery Jew plainly impossible; who are stillmore ready to lose their lives, than to leaveoff that divine worship which they have beenwont to pay unto God. Alexandra, there­fore, discoursed with those that had the keep •;