OCR Output 252 TITUS LIVIUS". BOOK III.' protection of their tribunes, since the decemvirs allowedcauses which had been determined by one of tiiem to bere-heard by another. - •' CHAP. XXXV.' . . Decemvirs chosen a-neu). A HE assembly for the election of new decemvirs beingfixed twenty-seven days after, the canvassing for thatoffice raised such a ferment, that the principal men ofthe state, fearing, no doubt, that an office of so greatauthority, were they not to appear as candidates, mightlay open to persons, by no means worthy of it, used alltheir influence to get themselves returned in the nomina­tion to a dignity, of the establishment whereof, they hadbeen the wannest opposers, although they now humblysolicited the favour of that very people, agamst whomthey had contended with so much vehemence before. Appius, seeing*men so respectable for their years, whohad passed through all the dignities ot the state,so warmin the pursuit of this, began to be seriou.-iy alarmed. Itwas difficult to say, from his behaviour at thii.time,whether he was then in office, or wanted to be so. Onlyon some occasions, he showed more of the candidatethan the decemvir. He spoke lightty of the nobitity,but the lowest" and most contemptible of the competitorshe extolled to the skies; strutting in the forum amongthe Dulii and Julii, his advocates among the people,with whom their influence- was very considerabte. Atlast his colleagues, who till then had been entirety at hisdevotion, began to mark him more attentively, bemg ata loss to unravel the mystery of his intentions. To themit appeared, that he wus all a mask together. " What!"said they, " is i! possible, that a man, who inherits all"the pride of the Claudian family, should all at once"degenerate into such servile obsequiousness, without"views of the most interested kind? To descend so"much from his stateliness;—to put himself so much"under restraint;—and to mingle m the face of the sun"with private persons, had not the appearance thai he"was in haste to abdicate, tut rather, that he was pur-"suing every plan to be continued in his office."