OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 247 opening of a war of prosecutions, in which the most passionate Revolutiondefenders of patriotic selfishness, the capitalists, took ven- in politicalgeance on all those who were suspected of having counselled Processes-moderation and seasonable concession. On the other handthe tribune Marcus Plautius Silvanus, who entered on hisoffice on the 10th of December of the same year, carried alaw which took the commission of high treason out of thehands of the capitalist juryman, and intrusted it to otherswho were nominated by the free choice of the tribes withoutclass-qualification; the effect of which was, that that com­mission was converted from a scourge of the moderate partyinto a scourge of the ultras, and sent into exile among othersits own author, Quintus Varius, who was blamed by thepublic voice for the worst democratic outrages—the poison­ing of Quintus Metellus and the murder of Drusus. Of greater importance than this singularly candid political Bestowal ofrecantation, was the change in the course of their policy the fran-toward the Italians. Exactly three hundred years had "hls.e on thepassed since Home had last been obliged to submit to the j^t^Jdictation of peace; Rome was now worsted once more, and faithful orthe peace which she desired could only be got by yielding to submitted,the terms of her antagonists. With the communities doubt­less, which had already risen in arms to subdue and todestroy Rome, the feud had become too bitter for the Romansto prevail on themselves to make the required concessions;and, had they done so, these terms would now perhaps havebeen rejected by the other side. But, if the original demandswere conceded under certain limitations to the communitiesthat had hitherto remained faithful, such a course would onthe one hand preserve the semblance of voluntary concession,while on the other hand it would prevent the otherwise in­evitable consolidation of the confederacy and thereby pavethe way for its subjugation. Accordingly the gates of Romancitizenship, which had so long remained closed againstentreaty, now suddenly opened when the sword knocked atthem; yet even now not fully and wholly, but in a mannerreluctant and annoying even for those admitted. A lawcarried by the consul Lucius Caesar* conferred the Roman * The Julian law must have been passed in the last months of 664, for 90.during the good season of the year Caesar was in the field; the Plautio-Papi-rian was probably passed, as was ordinarily the rule with tribunician propo­sals, immediately after the tribunes entered on office, consequently in Dec.664 or Jan. 665. 90. 89.