OCR Output C. V.] TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN BMPERORS. 311 that was had been by him taken by force; nay, he frequentlycursed those that had been the authors of their revolt, andhad brought such a punishment upon the city; insomuch thatit openly appeared, that he did not desire that such a calamityas this punishment of theirs amounted to should be a demon­stration of his courage. Yet was there no small quantity ofthe riches that had been in that city still found among itsruins, a great deal of which the Romans dug up; but thegreatest part was discovered by those who were captives, andso they carried it away : I mean the gold and the silver, andthe rest of that most precious furniture which the Jews had,and which the owners had treasured up under ground againstthe uncertain fortunes of war. 3. So Titus took the journey he intended to Egypt, andpassed over the desert very suddenly, and came to Alexan­dria, and took up a resolution to go to Rome by sea. Andas he was accompanied by two legions, he sent each of themagain to the places whence they had before come; the fifthhe sent to Mysia and the fifteenth to Pannonia: as for theleaders of the captives, Simon and John, with the other sevenhundred men, whom he had selected out of the rest, as beingeminently tall and handsome of body, he gave order that theyshould be soon carried to Italy, as resolving to produce themin his triumph. So when he had had a prosperous voyage tohis mind, the city of Rome behaved itself in his reception,and their meeting him at a distance, as it did in the case ofhis father. But what made the most splendid appearance inTitus's opinion was, when his father met him and receivedhim; hut still the multitude of the citizens conceived thegreatest joy when they saw them all three' together, as theydid at this time: nor were many days overpast when theydetermined to have but one triumph, that should be commonto both of them, on account of the glorious exploits they hadperformed, although the senate had decreed each of them aseparate triumph by himself. So when notice had been givenbeforehand of the day appointed for this pompous solemnityto be made on account of their victories, not one of the im- 1 Vespasian, and bis two sons, Titus and Domitian.