OCR Output CHAP. L. 329 mournful event; the army halted at the gates of Medina;the chiefs were assembled round their dying master.The city, more especially the house, of the prophet, wasa scene of clamorous sorrow or of silent despair: fana­ticism alone could suggest a ray of hope and consolation.How can he be dead, our witness, our intercessor, ourmediator with God? By God he is not dead; like Mosesand Jesus he is wrapt in a holy trance, and speedily willhe return to his faithful people. The evidence of sensewas disregarded; and Omar, unsheathing his scimitar,threatened to strike off the heads of the infidels, whoshould dare to affirm that the prophet was no more. Thetumult was appeased by the weight and moderation ofAbubeker. Is it Mahomet (said he to Omar and themultitude), or the God of Mahomet, whom you worship!The God of Mahomet livethfor ever, but the apostle wasa mortal like ourselves, and according to his own prediction,he has experienced the common fate of mortality. He waspiously interred by the hands of his nearest kinsman, onthe same spot on which he expired:" Medina has beensanctified by the death and burial of Mahomet: and theinnumerable pilgrims of Mecca often turn aside from theway, to bow in voluntary devotion,0 before the simpletomb of the prophet.p His cha- At the conclusion of the life of Mahomet, itracier. raav perhaps be expected, that I should balance n The Greeks and Latins have invented and propagated the vulgar and ridiculousstory that Mahomet's iron tomb is suspended in the air at Mecca (a-ii/ua /uiriaifi^o-l*tm; Laonicas Chalcocondyles des Rebus Turcicis, lib. 3. p. 6C.) by the action ofequal and potent loadstones, (Dictionnaire de Bayle, MAHoMET, Kem. EE. "FF.)Without any philosophical inquiries, it may suffice, that, l.'l'he prophet was notburied at Mecca; and, 2. That his tomb at Medina, which has been visited by mil­lions, is placed on the ground, (Reland de Relig. Moharn. lib. 2. c. 19. p. 209—111.) Gagnier. (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 263—268.) 0A1 Jannabi enumerates (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 373—391.) the multifa­rious duties of a pilgrim who visits the tomb of the prophet and his companions, andthe learned casuist decides, that this act of devotion is nearest in obligation andmerit to a divine precept. The doctors are divided which, of Mecca and Medina,be the most excellent, (p. 391—394.) * The last sickness, death, and burial, of Mahomet, are described by Abulfedaand Gagnier. (Vit. Moharn. p. 133.—142. Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 220—271.)The most private and interesting circumstances were originally received fromAyesha, Ali, the sons of Abbas, &c. and as t y dwelt at Medina, and survivedthe prophet many years, they might repest the pious tale to a second or third pp-neration of pilgrims.