OCR Output 322 THE HISTORY B Oi? K galloped acrofs to the other wing; they carried with. _TI _j them an account of this fuccefs; and, at the fameY.R. 306, time, made a charge on the enemy, difheartened byB. c. 446. tne defeat of the ftrohger wing of their army. Nonedifplayed, in that battle, more confpicuous bravery.The conful's attention was every where employed.He commended the brave, and reproved the remifs.Thefe immediately on being rebuked, exerted them-felves like men of fpirit; fhame ftimulating them aspowerfully, as commendation had done the others.The mout being raifed anew, and all uniting theirefforts, they drove the enemy from their ground,and then the force of the Romans could no longerbe refifted. The Sabines were difperfed all overthe country, and left their camp a prey to the enemy.There the Romans recovered not the effects of theirallies, as was the cafe in Algidum, but their own,'which they had loft, in the devaftation of the coun­try. For this double victory obtained in two bat­tles, in different places, the fenate, fo unwilling werethey to gratify the confuls, decreed a fupplication,in their name, of one day only. The people, how-. ever, went in great numbers, on the fecond day alfb,to offer thankigivings, and this irregular, and popu­lar fupplication, was celebrated with rather greaterzeal than the other. The confuls by concert cameto the city within a day of each other, and called outthe fenate to the field of Mars; where, while theywere relating the fervices which they had performed,the principal fenators began to complain, that thefcnate was, purpolely, held in the midft of the fol-diers, to keep them in terror. The confuls therefore,to take away all grounds for fuch a charge, removedthe fenate into the Flaminian meadows, to a placewhere the temple of Apollo now ftands, called, evenat that time, the Circus of Apollo. Here, a vaftmajority of the fenators concurring in refufing a tri-«mph, Lucius Icilius? tribune of the commons, pro-pofed to the people, the ordering a triumph to the10 confuls,