OCR Output CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 55 the father, nor sufficiently admire the undaunted spiritof the son, which was proof against every danger. Hewas therefore acquitted, rather out ot a regard to hisbravery, than from a conviction of the justice ot his cause.But not to leave so manifest a murder wholly unpunish­ed, the father was ordered to make satisfaction for.himout of the public treasury. At the same time, havingmade some expiatory sacrifices, which were ever afterkept up in the Horatian family, he set up a gallows inthe high-way, under which his son behoved to pass,hood-winked, as if he had passed under the yoke. Theremains of the galiows may be seen at this day, repair­ed at the public expense, known by the name of theSister's Rafter. A tonfb of square stones was erected forHoratia, in the place where she was killed. CHAP. XXVII. The Atbans revolt. 1 HE peace with Alba did not hold long. The peoplewere highly offended, that the fate of the whole nationhad been committed toMhe arms and gallantry of threecombatants, which put the fluctuatmg genius of the dic­tator upon new schemes, with a view, since good policyhad not succeeded with him, to recover the' esteem andconfidence of his citizens, by the most perfidious de­signs. Wherefore, as but lately he had courted peace,when he had war for an alternative, so now, in peace,he wishes for war. And conscious that the power of theAlbans was by no means equal to their inclination, hemakes it his business to stir up other states to make waropenly and avowedly, whilst he and his people, underthe mask of allegiance, should act as traitors. The Fidenates, a Roman colony, in concert with theVejentes, their allies, assured of the revolt of the Albans,take the field. The Fidenates having thus openly de­clared themselves, Tullus sends for Mettus and his armyfrom Alba, and marches against the enemy. Havingcrossed the Anio, he encamped at its conflux with theTiber; between which place and Fnlenae, the Vejenteshad crossed the Tiber. They draw up on the right to­wards the river, and the Fidenates on the left, towards