OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 217 should be their leader; and that instead of Judas and Jonathanhis brethren, he should have the government over them: and theypromised that they would readily obey him in whatsoever heshould command them. So he got together immediately all hisown soldiers that were fit for war, and made haste in rebuildingthe walls of the city, and strengthening them by very high andstrong towers, and sent a friend of his, one Jonathan the son ofAbsalom, to Joppa, and gave him orders to eject the inhabitantsout of the city, for he was afraid lest they should deliver up thecity to Trypho, but he himself stayed to secure Jerusalem. 5. But Trypho removed from Ptolemais with a great army,and came into Judea, and brought Jonathan with him in bonds.Simon also met him with his army at the city Adida, which isupon a hill, and beneath it lie the plains of Judea. And whenTrypho knew that Simon was by the Jews made their governor,he sent to him, and would have imposed upon him by deceit andtreachery; and desired him, if he would have his brother Jonathanreleased, that he would send him a hundred talents of silver, andtwo of Jonathan's sons as hostages, that when he shall be released,he may not make Judea revolt from the king, for that at pre­sent he was kept in bonds on account of the money he had bor­rowed of the king, and now owed it to him. But Simon wasaware of the craft of Trypho, and although he knew that if hegave him the money he should lose it, and that Trypho wouldnot set his brother free, and withal, should deliver the sons ofJonathan to the enemy, yet because he was afraid that he shouldhave a calumny raised against him among the multitude as thecause of his brother's death, if he neither gave the money, norsent Jonathan's sons, he gathered his army together, and toldthem what offers Trypho had made, and added this, that theoffers were ensnaring and treacherous, and yet that it was moreeligible to send the money and Jonathan's sons than to be liableto the imputation of not complying with Trypho's offers, andthereby refusing to save his brother. Accordingly, Simon sentthe sons of Jonathan and the money; but when Trypho had re­ceived them, he did not keep his promise, nor set Jonathan free,but took his army, and went about all the country, and resolvedto go afterward to Jerusalem by the way of Idumea, while Si­mon went over against him with his army, and all along pitch­ed his own camp over against his. 6. But when those that were in the citadel had sent to Try­pho, and besought him to make haste and come to them, and tosend them provisions, he prepared his cavalry as though he wouldbe at Jerusalem that very night, but so great a quantity of snowfell in the night, that it covered the roads, and made them so deep,that there was no passing, especially for the cavalry. This