OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 107 soldiers, through steep and almost impassable ways,into the citadel, where a quantity of missive weaponshad heen collected, larger than bore proportion to thenumber of men. There were stones, besides ; somelying at random, as in all craggy places, and othersheaped up by the townsmen, to add to the security ofthe place. Having posted the Romans here, and shownthem a steep and narrow path leading up from thetown to the citadel, * From this ascent,' said he, ' eventhree armed men would keep off any multitude what­ever. Now you are ten in number; and, what is more,Romans, and the bravest among the Romans. Thenight is in your favor; which, by concealing the realstate of things, magnifies every object to people whenonce alarmed. I will immediately fill every place withterror: be you alert in defending the citadel.' Hethen ran down in haste, crying aloud, ' To arms, citi­zens ; we are undone ; the citadel is taken by the ene­my ; run, defend it.' This he repeated as he passedthe doors of the principal men ; the same to all whomhe met; and also to those who ran out in a fright intothe streets. The alarm, communicated first by one,was soon spread by numbers through all the city.The magistrates, dismayed on hearing from scouts thatthe citadel was full of arms and armed men, whosenumber they multiplied, laid aside all hopes of reco­vering it. Flight began on every side ; and the towns­men, half asleep, and for the most part unarmed, brokeopen the gates, through one of which the body of Ro­man troops, roused by the noise, burst in, and slewthe terrified inhabitants who attempted to skirmish inthe streets. Sora was now taken, when, at the firstlight, the consuls arrived, and accepted the surrenderof those whom Fortune had left remaining after theflight and slaughter of the night. Of these, they con­veyed in chains to Rome two hundred and twenty-five,whom all men agreed in pointing out as the authorsboth of the revolt and also of the horrid massacre ofthe colonists. The rest were left in safety at Sora,where they placed a garrison. All those who were