OCR Output 172 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. standing in great fear of Aristeus, lest upon escape he mightdo them further mischief, since before this he had been theauthor of all the projects to their prejudice both at Potidaeaand in Thrace, put them to death on the very day of theirarrival, unjudged and suing in vain to be heard, and castthem into pits. This cruel usage of them they justified fromthe example of the Lacedaemonians, who had in the samemanner put to death and cast into pits the Athenian mer­chants and those of their allies, whom they had seized inthe trading vessels upon the coasts of Peloponnesus. For,in the beginning of the war, the Lacedaemonians had put todeath as enemies all those whom they could take at sea—not those only who belonged to the States in alliance withthe Athenians, but even such as were of the yet neutral com­munities. About the same time in the end of summer, the Ambra-ciots in conjunction with many of the Barbarians whomthey had excited to take up arms, invaded Argos of Amphi-lochia, and made excursions over all its dependent territory.Their enmity against the Argives took its original from hence. This Argos was first built, and this province of Amphilochia first planted by Amphilochus the son of Am-phiaraus, immediately after the Trojan war, who on his re­turn home, being dissatisfied with the state of affairs in thatether Argos, founded this city in the gulf of Ambracia, andgave it the same name with the place of his nativity. Itsoon became the largest city of Amphilochia, and the inha­bitants were most powerful of any thereabouts. Yet manygenerations after, being sunk by misfortunes, they pre­vailed upon the Ambraciots bordering upon Amphilochiato unite with them. This community of residence broughtthem to their present use of one common language, theGreek: But the rest of the Amphilochians are still Barba­rians. Yet in process of time, the Ambraciots drive theArgives from amongst them, and keep possession of the cityfor themselves. Upon this event the Amphilochians threw