OCR Output 218 OBSTINACY OF THE SEDITIOUS. [B. V. the wall of the city. This miserable procedure made Titusgreatly to pity them, while they caught every day five hun足dred Jews; nay, some days they caught more: yet did it notappear to be safe for him to let those that were taken by forceto go their way; and to set a guard over so many he sawwould be to make such as guarded them useless to him. Themain reason why he did not forbid that cruelty was this, thathe hoped the Jews might, perhaps, yield at that sight, out offear lest they might themselves afterwards be liable to the samecruel treatment. So the soldiers, out of the wrath and hatredthey bore the Jews, nailed those they caught, one after oneway, and another after another, to the crosses, by way of jest,when their multitude was so great that room was wanting forthe crosses, and crosses wanting for the bodies. 2. But so far were the seditious from repenting at this sadsight, that on the contrary, they made the rest of the multi足tude believe otherwise; for they brought the relations of thosethat had deserted upon the wall, with such of the populace aswere very eager to go over upon the security offered them,and showed them what miseries those underwent who fled tothe Romans : and told them that those who were caught weresupplicants to them, and not such as were taken prisoners.This sight kept many of those within the city who were soeager to desert, till the truth was known: yet did some ofthem run away immediately as unto certain punishment, es足teeming death from their enemies to be a quiet departure, ifcompared with that by famine. So Titus commanded thatthe hands of many of those that were caught should be cutoff, that they might not be thought deserters, and might becredited on account of the calamity they were under, and sentthem in to John and Simon, with this exhortation, that " theywould now at length leave off [their madness,] and not forcehim to destroy the city, whereby they would have those advan足tages of repentance, even in their utmost distress, that theywould preserve their own lives, and so fine a city of their own,and that temple which was their peculiar." He then wentround about the banks that were cast up, and hastened them,in order to show that his words should in no long time bo