OCR Output CHAP. LI. 41$> sult, and the obstinacy of the resistance, provoked himto swear, that if a third time he drove the infidels intothe sea, he would render Alexandria as accessible on allsides as the house of a prostitute. Faithful to hispromise, he dismantled several parts of the walls andtowers, but the people were spared in the chastisementof the city, and the mosch of Mercy was erected on thespot where the victorious general had stopped the furyof his troops. .. r I should deceive the expectation of the reader,andnan if I passed in silence the fate of the Alexandrianra library, as it is described by the learned Abul-pharagius. The spirit of Amrou was more curious andliberal than that of his brethren, and in his leisure hours,the Arabian chief was pleased with the conversation ofJohn, the last disciple of Ammonius, and who derivedthe surname of Philoponus from his laborious studies ofgrammar and philosophy." Emboldened by this familiarintercourse, Philoponus presumed to solicit a gift, ines­timable in his opinion, contemptible in that of the bar­barians; the royal library, which alone among the spoilsof Alexandria, had not been appropriated by the visitand the seal of the conqueror. Amrou was inclined togratify the wish of the grammarian, but his rigid inte­grity refused to alienate the minutest object without theconsent of the caliph; and the well-known answer ofOmar was inspired by the ignorance of a fanatic. Ifthese writings of the Greeks agree with the book of God,they are useless and need not be preserved: if they dis­agree, they are pernicious, and ought to be destroyed. Thesentence was executed with blind obedience: the vo­lumes of paper or parchment were distributed to the four 1 Many treatises of this lover of labour (ifiX*BroMf) are still extant; but for readersof the present age, the printed and unpublished are nearly in the same predicament.Moses and Aristotle are the chief objects of his verbose commentaries, one of whichis dated as early as May 10, A. D. 617. (Fabric. Bibliot. Grsc. torn. 9. p. 458—468.) A modem (John Le Clerc), who sometimes assumes the same name, wasequal to old Philoponus in diligence, and far superior in good sense and realknowledge. 2E2