OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 71 after he had been tetrarch of Trachonitis and Gaulanitis, and ofthe nation of the Bataneans also, thirty-seven years. He hadshewed himself a person of moderation and quietness in the con­duct of his life and government; he constantly lived in that coun­try which was subject to him * ; he used to make his progresswith a few chosen friends; his tribunal also, on which he sat injudgment, followed him in his progress; and when any one methim who wanted his assistance, he made no delay, but had histribunal set down immediately, wheresoever he happened to be,and sat down upon it, and heard his complaint: he there orderedthe guilty that were convicted to be punished, and absolved thosethat had been accused unjustly. He died at Julias ; and whenhe was carried to that monument which he had already erectedtor himself before-hand, he was buried with great pomp. Hisprincipality Tiberius took, for he left no sons behind him, andadded it to the province of Syria, but gave order that the tri­butes which arose from it should be collected, and laid up in histetrarchy. CHAP V. Herod the tetrarch makes war with Gretas, the king of Arabiarand is beaten by him ; as also concerning the death of ^jfohn theBaptist: bow Vitellius went up to Jerusalem ; together withsome account of sigrippa, and of the posterity of Herod the Great. § 1. A BOUT this time, Aretas, the king of Arabia Petrea,,**• and Herod, had a quarrel on the account following :—Herod the tetrarch had married the daughter of Aretas, and hadlived with her a great while, but when he was once at Rome,he lodged with Herod f, who was his brother indeed, but notby the same mother ; for this Herod was the son of the high-priest Simon's daughter. However, he fell in love with Hero-dias, this last Herod's wife, who was the daughter of Aristobu-lus their brother, and the sister of Agrippa the Great; this manventured to talk to her about a marriage between them, whichaddress when she admitted, an agreement was made for her to change * An excellent example this. t This Herod seems to have had the additional name of Philip, as Antipaswas named Herod-Antipas, and as Antipas and Antipater seem to be in a mannerthe very same name, yet were the names of two sons of Herod the Great; somight Philip the tetrarch and this Herod-Philip be two different sons of the samefather, all which Grotius observes on Matt. xiv. 3. Nor was it, as 1 agree with.Grotius and others of the learned, Philip the tetrarch, but this Herod-Philip,Whose wife Herod the tetrarch had married, and that in her first husband's life­time, and when her first husband had issue by her; for which adulterous andincestuous marriage, John the Baptist justly reproved Herod the tetrarch, andfor which reproof Salome, the daughter of Herodias, by her first husband Herod.Philip, who was still alive, occasioned him to be unjus'ly beheaded.