OCR Output OS THE ROHAN EMPIRE". 361 discharge by an executioner. The refusal of Alexius to march against a fourthrebel, the husband of his sister, destroyed the merit or memory of his past services:the favourites of Botaniates provoked the ambition which they apprehended andaccused; and the retreat of tne two brothers might be justified by the defence oftheir life or liberty. The women of the family were deposited in a sanctuary,respected by tyrants: the men, mounted on horseback, sallied from the city, anderected the standard of civil war. The soldiers, who had been gradually assem­bled in the capital and tne neighbourhood, were devoted to the cause of a victori­ous and injured leaden the ties of common interest and domestic alliance securedthe attachment of the house of Ducas: and the generous dispute of the Comneni wasterminated by the decisive resolution of Isaac, who was the first to invest hisyounger brother with the name and ensigns of royalty. They returned to Con­stantinople, to threaten rather than besiege that impregnable fortress; but thefidelity of the guards was corrupted: a gate was surprised; and the fleet was occu­pied by the active courage of George Pelzologus, who fought against his father,without foreseeing that he laboured for his posterity. Alexius ascended thethrone; and his aged competitor disappeared in a monastery. An army of variousnations was gratified with the pillage of the city; but the public disorders wereexpiated by the tears and fasts of the Comneni, who submitted to every penancecompatible with the possession of the empire. The life of .the emperor Alexius had been delineated by a favourite daughter,who was inspired by a tender regard for his person, and a laudable zeal to perpe­tuate his virtues. Conscious of the just suspicion of her readers, the princess AnnaComnena repeatedly protests, that, besides her personal knowledge, she hadsearched the discourse and writings of the most respectable veterans; that after aninterval of thirty years, forgotten by, and forgetful of, the world, her mournful soli­tude was inaccessible to hope and fear; and that truth, the naked perfect truth, wasmore dear and sacred than the memory of her parent. Yet, instead of the simpli­city of style and narrative which wins our belief, an elaborate affectation of rhetoricand science betrays in every page the vanity of a female author. The genuinecharacter of Alexius is lost in a vague constellation of virtues: and the perpetualstrain of panegyric and apology awakens our jealousy, to question the veracityof the historian and the merit of the hero. We cannot however refuse her judi­cious and important remark, that the disorders of the times were the misfortuneand the glory of Alexius; and that every calamity which can afflict a declining em­pire was accumulated on his reign by the justice of Heaven and the vices of hispredecessors. In the east, the victorious Turks had spread, from Persia to Hel­lespont, the reign of the Koran and the crescent: the west was invaded by the ad­venturous valour of the Normans; and in the moments of peace, the Danube Eoured forth new swarms, who had gained, in the science of war, what they had*t in the ferociousness of manners. The sea was not less hostile than the land;and while the frontiers were assaulted by an open enemy, the palace was distract­ed with secret treason and conspiracy. On a sudden the banner of the cross wasdisplayed by the Latins: Europe has precipitated on Asia; and Constantinople hadalmost been swept away by this impetuous deluge. In the tempest, Alexiussteered the imperial vessel with dexterity and courage. At the head of his ar­mies, he was bold in action, skilful in stratagem, patient of fatigue, ready to im­prove his advantages, and rising from his defeats with inexhaustible vigour. Thediscipline of the camp was revived, and a new generation of men and soldiers wascreated by the example and the precepts of their leader. In his intercourse withthe Latins, Alexius was patient and artful: his discerning eye pervaded the new sys­tem of an unknown world; and I shall hereafter describe the superior policy withwhich he balanced the interests and passions of the champions of the first crusade.In along reign of thirty-seven years, he subdued and pardoned the envy of his equals:the laws of public and private order were restored: the arts of wealth and sciencewere cultivated: the limits of the empire were enlarged in Europe and Asia; andthe Comnenian sceptre was transmitted to his children of the third and fourthgeneration. Yet the difficulties of the times betrayed some defects in his charac­ter; and have exposed his memory to some just or ungenerous reproach. Thereader may possibly smile at the lavish praise which his daughter so often bestowson a flying hero: the weakness or prudence of his situation might be mistaken for awant of personal courage; and his political arts are branded by the Latins with thenames of deceit and dissimulation. The increase of the male and female branchesof his family adorned the throne and secured the succession: but their princely