OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of the Christians, who were spared by the excessive lenity of thegovernment, had at length provoked the Divine Justice? It wasnot among a licentious and exasperated populace, that the forms oflegal proceedings could be observed; it was not in an amphitheatrestained with the blood of wild beasts and gladiators, that the voiceof compassion could be heard. The impatient clamours of themultitude denounced the Christians as the enemies of gods andmen, doomed them to the severest tortures, and venturing to accuse-by name some of the most distinguished of the new sectaries, re­quired with irresistible vehemence, that they should be instantlyapprehended and cast |to the lions \ The provincial governors-and magistrates who presided in the public spectacles were usuallyinclined to gratify the inclinations, and to appease the rage of thepeople, by the sacrifice of a few obnoxious victims. But the wisdomof the emperors protected the church from the danger of thesetumultuous clamours and irregular accusations, which they justlycensured as repugnant both to the firmness and to the equity of theiradministration. The edicts of Hadrian and of Antoninus Pius ex­pressly declared that the voice of the multitude should never be ad~mitted as legal evidence to convict or to punish those unfortunate per­sons who had embraced the enthusiasm of the Christians 6'. III. Punishment was not the inevitable consequence of conviction, Trials os the-,and the Christians, whose guilt was the most clearly proved by Ck"*1"***-tbje testimony of witnesses, or even by their voluntary confession,,still retained in their own power the alternative of life or death*Lt was not so much the past offence, as the actual, resistance, which,excited the indignation of the magistrate. An easy pardon wasgranted to repentance, and if they consented to cast a few grains* o£incense upon the altar, they were dismissed from the tribunal in:safety and with applause. It was esteemed the duty of a humane-judge to endeavour to reclaim, rather than to punissi, those deludedenthusiasts. Varying his tone according to the age, the sex, or the- situation.