OCR Output 312 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. force of arms. Justice moreover was exercised, as the victorsunderstood the term. The most noted adherents of Mithra-dates and the authors of the massacre of the Italians werepunished with death. The persons liable to taxes were obligedimmediately to pay down in cash according to valuation thewhole arrears of tenths and customs for the last five years;besides which they had to pay a war-indemnity of 20,000talents (£4,880,000) for the collection of which Luculluswas left behind. These were measures fearful in theirrigour and dreadful in their effects; but, when we recall theEphesian decree and its execution, we feel inclined to regardthem as a comparatively mild retaliation. That their exac­tions in other respects were not unusually oppressive, isshown by the value of the spoil afterwards carried intriumph, which amounted in precious metal to only about£1,000,000. The few communities on the other hand thathad remained faithful—particularly the island of Rhodes, theprovince of Lycia, Magnesia on the Maeander—were richlyrewarded; Rhodes received back at least a portion of thepossessions withdrawn from it after the war against Perseus(ii. 307). In like manner compensation was made as far aspossible by free charters and special favours to the Chiansfor the hardships which they had borne, and to the Iliensesfor the insanely cruel maltreatment inflicted on them byTimbria on account of the negotiations into which they hadentered with Sulla. Sulla had already brought the kings ofBithynia and Cappadocia to meet the Pontic king at Dar-danus, and had made them all promise to live in peace andgood neighbourhood ; on which occasion, however, thehaughty Mithradates had refused to admit Ariobarzanes whowas not descended of royal blood—the slave, as he calledhim—to his presence. Gaius Scribonius Curio was commis­sioned to superintend the restoration of the legal order ofthings in the two kingdoms evacuated by Mithradates. The goal was thus attained. After four years of war thePontic king was again a client of the Romans, and a singleand settled government was restored in Greece, Macedonia,and Asia Minor; the requirements of interest and honourwere satisfied, if not adequately, yet so far as circumstanceswould allow; Sulla had not only brilliantly distinguishedhimself as a soldier and general, but had the skill in a pathcrossed by a thousand obstacles to preserve the difficultmean between bold perseverance and prudent concession.