OCR Output .-ins MEGALOPOLIS. MEGALOPOLIS. insisted upon preserving the former dimensions ofthe city. The former party, through the mediationof Aratus, appear to have prevailed, and the citywhs unfortunately rebuilt in its original magnitude.(Polyb. v. 93.) The fortifications were sufficientlystrong to resist the attack of the tyrant Nabis(I'lut. PkSap. 13); but they were again suffered tofall into decay; and even as soon as B.C. 175, wefind that Antiochus IV. Kpiphanes promised theMegalopolitans to surround their city with a wall,and gave them the greater part of the necessarymoney. (Liv. xli. 20.) Pnlybius remarks (ix. 21)that the population of Megalopolis in his time wasonly the half of that of Sparta, although it was twostadia greater in circumference. So much was itreduced, that a comic poet, quoted by Strabo, de­scribed "the Great City as a great desert" (ipritiiafityi\rt VtIk r\ M«7aA?j woAir, viii. p. 388). Ac­customed as rausania* was to the siizht of fallencities, the ruined condition of Megalopolis appears tohave particularly impressed him, and gave rise tothe reflections which he has inserted after his de­scription of the city (viii. 33). Megalopolis wasthe birthplace of Pbilopoemen, and of the historianPolybius. Megalopolis was situated in the middle of a plain,and, unlike the generality of Grecian cities, possessedno height, which might be converted into an acro­polis. Mantineia, which was also rebuilt about thesame time, was placed in a level situation, instead ofits old position upon a hill. A level situation ap­pears to have been chosen as more convenient for alarge population than the rocky heights upon whichthe old Greek cities were built; while the improve­ments which had been made in the art of fortifyingcities enabled their inhabitants to dispense withnatural defences. The city lay upon either bank ofthe Helisson, which flowed through it from cast towest, and divided it into nearly two equal parts. RUINS OF MfcOAUll'OUS. A A. Orettla, B R. The Helluon. C. Theatre. D. Staillum. K. Thrr«lllum.K. Agora. O. Temple of Athena Pollaj.II. Tempi* of Hera Teleia.I. The II,,ihj Ihi,. The Helisson flows into the Alpheins about 2\English miles from the city. The southern half ofthe city was called Okkstia ('Optima), from anancient settlement of the Maenalians upon this spot.(Steph. U. t. v. Ktya\n roAii.) The ruins of Me- galopnlis are near the modem village of Soufcia ; hotalmost all trace of the walls has disappeared, be­cause they were probably built, like those of Man­tineia (Xen. HelL v. 2. § 5; Pans. viii. 8. § 5\ ofunburnt bricks. Pausanias has given a particulardescription of the public buildings (viii. .TO—3-2). thesite of some of which may still be fixed by the exrst-ing remains. The two most important building? werethe theatre, on the left or southern side of the rirer,and the Agora on the right. The colossal remains isfthe theatre are conspicuous in the whole plain.Several of the seats remain, and a part of the wallof the cavca. It is described by Pausanias (viii 32.§ 1) as the greatest theatre in Greece, and was 480feet in diameter. Pausanias says that in the theatrethere was a perennial fountain, which Leake couldnot find, but which Ross noticed in the Orchestral itis now covered with rubbish, so that it is nut visible,but in dry seasons it makes the ground quite moistand slippery. On the eastern side of the theatrewas the stadium, the position of which is abdicatedin the shape of the ground near the river. Here isa fountain of water, which Pausanias says was inthe stadium, and was sacred to Dionysus. On theeastern side of the stadium was a temple of IKony-sus; and below the stadium, towards the river, werea sanctuary of Aphrodite, and an altar of Area.Ross supposes a circular foundation close to the bankof the rirer to be the altar of Ares, and a quadran­gular foundation between this and the theatre to hathe temple of Aphrodite. East of the temple ofDionysus there is another source of water, also men­tioned by Pausanias, by which we can fix the posi­tion of the temple of Asclepins the Boy; atomwhich, on a gently sloping hill, was a temple ofArtemis Agrotera. West of the theatre was theThersilium, named from the person who built it. inwhich the Ten Thousand were accustomed to meet;and near it was a house, built originally by Use Me­galopolitans for Alexander, the son of Philip, lathis same locality there were a few foundations of atemple sacred to Apollo, Hermes, and the Mmici Opposite the western end of the theatre there are,on both sides of the river, but mors especially on thenorthern bank, large masses of square stones. The**are probably the remains of the principal bridge overthe Helisson, which led from the theatre to theAgora on the northern side of the river. The Annwas built on a magnificent scale, and extended aVer;the river close to the western walls of the city; sinrePausanias, who entered Megalopolis upon this sad*.immediately came upon the Agora. As I'lamiiuhas given a fuller description of the Agora of Mea-a-lopolis than of any other in Greece, the full.*nnfrestoration of it (taken from Curtins) may be foonsluseful in understanding the general form and ar­rangement of such buildings. In the centre of the Ag <ra was an inrlorare tarredto Zeus Lycaeus, who was the tutelary deity of sJaArcadia. It had no entrance; but the objects itcontained were exposed to public view; here was*seen two altars of the god, two tables, two esurtra,and a statue in stone of Pan. Before the sacred m-cltaure of Zeus there wss s statue of ApuUo in brass*,12 feet high, which was brought from Bawaat bythe Phigalians, to adorn the new capital; it ssar-rived the destruction of the city, and is repon coins of Septimius Severus. This colossaltue probably stood on the west side of theluary of Zeus. To the right of the colossal ■was the temple of the Mother of the Gods, of •