OCR Output an. 570.] 379 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When Nebuchadnezzar heard this, andrecollected his dream, he was astonished atthe nature of Daniel:* and fell upon his face,and saluted Daniel in the manner that menworship God; and gave command that heshould be sacrificed to as a god. He alsoimposed the name of his own god Baltasarupon him, and made him and his kinsmen,rulers of the whole kingdom. These kins­men, however, happened to fall into dangerby the envy and malice of their enemies: forthey offended the king upon the followingoccasion. The king made an image of gold,whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadthsix cubits; and set it in the great plain ofBabylon;! and when he was going to dedi­cate the image, he invited all the principalmen that were under his dominion, and com­manded, that when they should hear thesound of the trumpet, they should then falldown and worship the image; and he threat­ened that those who did not do so, should becast into a fiery furnace.J When thereforeall the rest, upon hearing the sound of the * Nebuchadnezzar seems, in a sudden transport, tohave looked upon Daniel as having something more thanhuman in him, just as the barbarians thought of St. Paul,Acts xxviii. 6. and therefore it is said, that he fell on hisface and worshipped him; because the doing of reve­rence, by way of prostration, is not only an act of worshippaid to God, but frequently given to kings and great menin the Old Testament, according to the custom of easterncountries, 2 Sam. ix. 6. and sometimes even to prophets, onaccount of the sanctity of their office, 1 Kings xviii. 7. norwas it usually refused by them, except such circumstanceswere added to it, as made it look like divine worship, andthen it was always rejected, as in the case of St. Peter,Acts x. 26. Lowtk's Commentary on Daniel ii. 43. B. t Grotius is of opinion that the image which Nebuchad­nezzar set up was the figure of his father Nebopolassar,whom, by this means, he intended to deify; but othersthink, that it was his own statue which he erected, togain the adorations of his people in this form. We can­not, however, in what we find Nebuchadnezzar saying toDaniel's friends, perceive that he any where upbraidsthem with contempt offered to his person, or his statue,bat only that they would not serve his gods, nor worshipthe image which he had set up, Daniel iii. 14. Andtherefore others have imagined, that this was neither hisown nor his father's statue, but that of Jupiter, which wasafterward found in the temple of Belus, when Xerxesplundered it of its immense riches, among which wereseveral images of massy gold, but one more especially fiftyfeet high, which might be the same that Nebuchadnezzarconsecrated in the plains of Dura. For though that issaid to have been sixty cubits, i. e. ninety feet high, yetwe may suppose that it stood upon a pedestal of forty feethigh, and so the image and the pedestal together, mightmake ninety, (vide vol. i. page 310, in the notes,) other- VOL. I.—NOS. 31 & 32. trumpet, worshipped the image; Daniel'skitismen did not do it, because they wouldnot transgress the laws of their country. Sothese men were convicted, and cast imme­diately into the fire; but were saved byDivine Providence, and after a surprisingmanner escaped death: for the fire did nottouch them. And I suppose it touched themnot, as if it reasoned with itself, that theywere cast into it without any fault of theirs;and that therefore it was too weak to burn theyoung men when they were in it. This wasdone by the power of God, who made theirbodies so far superior to the fire, that it couldnot consume them. This it was which recom­mended them to the king as righteous men,and men beloved of God: on which accountthey continued in great esteem with him. A little after this, the king saw in his sleepanother vision: intimating that he should fallfrom his dominion, and feed among the wildbeasts;|| and that when he had lived in thismanner in the desert for seven years,§ heshould recover his dominion again. When wise there would be no proportion between its height andits breadth, according to the description we have of it inDaniel iii. 1. Prideaux's Connection, anno 573. B. J This kind of punishment was pretty common in theseparts of the world, so that some will have it, that Abra­ham, before he departed from Chaldea, was made toundergo it, but escaped by a miraculous preservation,founding their opinion on Gen. xi. 31. Of this furnace, inparticular, it is related, that the king's servants having re­ceived the command to heat it seven times hotter, ceasednot to make the oven hot with rosin, pitch, tow, and smallwood; so that the flame streamed forth above the furnaceforty and nine cubits; and passed through and burnt theChaldeans it found about the furnace. The Song of theThree Holy Children, ver. 23, &c. B. || God delayed the execution of his threats against thisprince, and gave him a whole year's reprieve, chap. iv.29. to see if he would repent, and turn unto him; butperceiving that he still persisted in his crimes, as soon asthe measure of his iniquity was full, he smote and re­duced him to the condition of a beast. This is Theodoret'snotion of the matter; but St. Jerome rather thinks, thatthis king being terrified with the threats, and touched withthe exhortations of the prophet, began to set about his re­formation, and by acts of charity and mercy, to reconcilehimself to God, for which he obtained a delay of hispunishment for a year's space; but that instead of perse­vering in these good purposes, he suffered himself to fallinto pride, upon the contemplation of the mighty workshe had done, and so, by his vanity, lost what he hadgained by his charity. Bonum misericordiae perdidit malosuperbiae. Calmet't Commentary. B. § Since Josephus here explains the seven prophetictimes which were to pass over Nebuchadnezzar, Danieliv. 16. to be seven years, we thence learn how he most 3S .