OCR Output TEARI JULIENSES. 1117 TECELIA. CJrt (Cales). The moat important are those of animpttitbeatre and a theatre, situated near the Via.Utiiia; bat numerous remains of other buildingsvt fiund scattered over a considerable space, thoughIt the most part in imperfect preservation. They»r**H constructed of brick, and in the reticulatediril*, and may therefore probably be all referred toJw :■ of the Roman Empire. Numerous in-tripiiuos hare also been found, as well as coins,r«n, intaglios, fee, all tending to confirm the ac-•Jint given by Strabo of its ancient prosperity.Ft manetli, vol. iii. p. 456; Hoare's Class. Tour,iJ. i. pp. 249—264; Mommsen, Inscr. JL N. pp.:09, 209). At a short distance from Tea no are some mineralprates, now called Le Caldarelie, which are evi- ''r the same with the "aquae acidulae,** men-'•oed both by Pliny and Vitruvius as existing nearVanum. (Plin. xxxi. 2.8.5; Vitruv. viii. 3. § 17.)V remains of some ancient buildings, called //■>y*o Xnoro, are still visible on the spot. [E. H. B.] COIN OF TXAJfUX SIDKINL'M. TEARl JULIENSES, Uie inhabitantsofa town ofe lkrcaonea in Hispania Tarraconensis (Plin. iii. J 4). It is called by Ptolemy TtaptovXta, andjcnbablv the modem Traygvera. [T. H. D.] TEARUS (Plin. iv. 11. s. 18; Tiapos, Herod, iv.i) now Teare, Drara,ov Drrc, a river in the SE. Thrace, flowing in a S\V. direction, until it joins • < <*itadrndos, their united waters fulling into the"ur*-5, one of the prim-iral eastern tributaries ofi H'brna. Herodotus (L c.) states that thel^~w of the Team* are equidistant from Heraeumthe Propootie and Apollonia on the Euxine; thatt are thirty-eight in number; and that, though * a1! issue from the same rock, some of them are4, others warm. Their waters had the reputation,*n; the neighbouring people, of being pre-eminently:ktnal, especially in cases of itch or mangeV>). On hia n.arch towards the Danube, Da- i halted bia army for three days at the sources ofTeams, and erected a pillar there, with an in-p:>ja commcniorative of their virtues, and of his [J. R-] TATE (TeaWa, Strab. Ptol.: Eth. Teatinus:fft). the chief city of the Marrucini, was situated> tull about 3 miles from the river Aternus, and•tn the Adriatic. All the ancient geographersur in representing it as the metropolis or capital of* the tribe (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin. iii. 12.T: PliJ. iii- I. § 60); and Silius Italicus re-rdly do*ice* it with the epithets "great" andutnoos** (M magnum Teste," Sil. ItaL viiL. Clarurn Teste, Id. xvii. 453); but, not with-iing thia, we find no mention of it in his-Ittscriptioaa, however, as well as existingir.t, concur in proving it to have Wen aLtlang and important town under the Romaniiic. It was apparently the only municipal in the land of the Marrucini, and heuce the limits of its municipal district seem to have coincidedwith those of that people. We learn from the LiberColoniarum that it received a body of colonistsunder Augustus, but it did not bear the title of acolony, and is uniformly styled in inscriptions amunicjpium. (Lib. Colon, p. 258; Orell. Inscr.2175, 3853; Mommsen, Inscr. R. N. pp. 278,279.) It derived additional splendour in the earlydays of the Empire from being the native place ofAsinius Pollio, the celebrated statesman and orator;indeed the whole family of the A&inii seem to havederived their origin from Teate. Herius Asiniuswas the leader of the Marrucini in the &>cial War,and a brother of the orator is called by Catullus"Marrucine Asini." (Liv. Epit. lxxiii.; Catull.12. 1.) The family of the Vettii also, to whichbelonged the Vettius Mareellus mentioned by Plinyii. S3, s. 85), appears to have belonged to Teate.Mommsen, /. c. 5311.)The Itineraries place Teate on the Via Valeria,though from the position of the town, on a hill tothe right of the valley of the Atemus, the roadmust have made a considerable dttour in order toreach it (//in. Ant. p. 310; Tab. Prut.) Its nameis also noticed by P. Diaconus (ii. 20), and thereseems no doubt that it continued throughout themiddle ages to be a place of importance, and thecapital of the surrounding district. Chieti is stillone of the most considerable cities in this part ofItaly, with above 14,000 inhabitants, and is thesee of an archbishop. Still existing remains provethat the ancient city occupied the same site as themodern Chieti, on a long ridge of hill stretchingfrom N. to S., though it must have been con­siderably more extensive. Of these the most im­portant are the ruins of a theatre, which musthave been of large size; those of a large edificesupposed to have been a reservoir for water, andtwo temples, now converted into churches. One ofthese, now the church of 5. Paolo, and considered,but without any authority, as a temple of Hercules,was erected by the Vettius Mareellus above noticed;the other, from the name of Sta Maria del 7Vi-caglio which it bears, has been conjectured to havebeen dedicated to Diai.a Trivia. All these edifices,from the style of their construction, belong to theearly period of the Roman Empire. Besides these,numerous mosaics and other works of art have beendiscovered on the site, which attest the flourishingcondition of Teate during the first two centuriesof the Christian era. (Romanelli, vol. iii. pp. 104—109; Craven, Abruzzit vol. ii. pp. 8,9.) [E.H. B.] COIN OF TKATB. TEBENDA (Tc'&roa), a town in the interior ofPontus Galaticus (Ptol. v. 6. § 9), is no doubt thesame as the Tebcnna mentioned by Anna Comnena(p. 364, b.) as situated in the vicinity of Tra-pezus. [L. S.] TECE'LIA (TfKfAfa), a town placed by Ptolemy C