OCR Output 84 LIVY. off in a body, without any certain leader, withoutstandards, without order or subordination, and thatthey might all be cut off, if one squadron of horse weresent against them, he answered, 'Let some be leftalive, to carry home accounts of the enemy's losses,and of our valor.' 50. On the night which followed the battle Neroset out on his return; and by marches even speedierthan he had made in coming, on the sixth day afterreached his former post opposite the enemy. Thecrowds of people attending him were less than before,because no messenger had preceded him; but theseexhibited such demonstrations of joy, as to seem trans­ported almost beyond their reason. It is impossibleto express or describe the emotions that agitated theminds of all persons at Rome, either while waiting indoubtful expectation of the event, or when they re­ceived the news of the victory. The senators neverquitted the senate-house, nor the magistrates, nor thepeople, the forum, from the rising to the setting sun,during the whole of Claudius' march; so eager werethey to greet him. The matrons, incapable themselvesof contributing aid, had recourse to prayers and sup­plications; and going about from one temple to ano­ther, wearied the gods with their intreaties and theirvows. While the public were in this painful sus­pense, first an unauthenticated rumor spread that twoNarnian horsemen had come from the field of battle tothe camp which stood on the frontiers of Umbria,with intelligence that the enemy were utterly defeated.For some time this news, though listened to, was butlittle credited, as being too great, and too joyful, forthe people's minds to admit, or readily believe; andeven the quickness of the conveyance was urged as anobjection to the truth of it; as the account said thatthe battle was fought only two days before. Soonafter this a letter was brought from the camp by Lu­cius Manlius Acidinus, confirming the arrival of theNarnian horsemen. This letter being carried throughthe forum to the pretor's tribunal, brought out the