OCR Output 412 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. the Po, and the foreigners domiciled in Italy, have to beadded, while the Roman burgesses domiciled abroad are tobe deducted. It kwill accordingly be scarcely possible toestimate the free population of the peninsula at more thanfrom six to seven millions. If its whole population at thattime was equal to that of the present day, we should have toassume accordingly a mass of slaves amounting to thirteenor fourteen millions. It needs however no such fallaciouscalculations to render the dangerous character of thisstate of things apparent; this is loudly enough attested bythe partial servile insurrections, and by the appeal whichfrom the beginning of the revolution was at the close of everyouthreak addressed to the slaves to take up arms against theirmasters and to fight out their liberty. If we conceive ofEngland with its lords, its squires, and above all its City,but with its freeholders and farmers converted into prole­tarians, and its labourers and sailors converted into slaves,we shall gain an approximate image of the population of theItalian peninsula in those days.Monetary The economic relations of this epoch are clearly mirroredsystem. to us even now in the Eoman monetary system. Its treat-Gold and ment shows throughout the sagacious merchant. For longsilver. gold and silver stood side by side as general means of pay­ment on such a footing that, while for the purpose of generalcash-balances a fixed ratio of value was legally laid downbetween the two metals (ii. 382), the giving one metal forthe other was not, as a rule, optional, but payment was tobe in gold or silver according to the tenor of the bond. Inthis way the great evils were avoided, that are otherwise in­evitably associated with the setting up of two precious150. metals; the severe gold crises—as about 600, for instance,when in consequence of the discovery of the Tauriscan gold-seams (P. 174) gold as compared with silver fell at once inItaly about 33^$—exercised at least no direct influence onthe silver money and retail transactions. The nature of thecase implied that, the more transmarine traffic extended,gold the more decidedly rose from the second place to thefirst; and that it did so, is confirmed by the statements asto the balances in the treasury and as to its transactions;but the government was not thereby induced to introducegold into the coinage. The coinage of gold attempted in theexigency of the Hannibalic war (ii. 173) had been longallowed to fall into abeyance; the few gold pieces, which