OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Jl 1 Mountains, and the Girdle of the Earth. The sides ofthe hills were productive of minerals; and the iron forges,*for the purpose of war, were exercised by the Turks, themost despised portion of the slaves of the great khan ofthe Geougen. But their servitude could only last till aleader, bold and eloquent, should arise, to persuade hiscountrymen, that the same arms, which they forged fortheir masters, might become, in their own hands, theinstruments of freedom and victory. They sallied fromthe mountain ;b a sceptre was the reward of his advice;and the annual ceremony, in which a piece of iron washeated in the fire, and a smith's hammer was successivelyhandled by the prince and his nobles, recorded for agesthe humble profession and rational pride of the Turkishnation. Bertezena, their first leader, signalized theirvalour and his own in successful combats against theneighbouring tribes; but when he presumed to ask inmarriage the daughter of the great khan, the insolentdemand of a slave and a mechanic was contemptuouslyrejected. The disgrace was expiated by a more noblealliance with a princess of China % and the decisive battle,which almost extirpated the nation of the Geougen, es­tablished in Tartary the new and more powerful empireof the Turks. They reigned over the north; but theyconfessed the vanity of conquest, by their faithful attach­ment to the mountain of their fathers. The royal en­campment seldom lost sight of mount Altai, from whencethe river Irtish descends to water the rich pastures of the The mountain is endowed with a sensitive action in its roots or nerves; and their vi­bration, at the command of God, is the cause of earthquakes. (D'H«rbelot, p. 230,231.) a The Siberian iron is the best and most plentiful in the world ; and in the southernparts, above sixty mines are now worked by the industry of the Russians. (Strablen-berg, Hist, of Siberia, p. 342, 387. Voyage en Siberie, par l'Abbe Chappe d'Auter-oche, p. 603. 608. edit! in 12mo. Amsterdam, 1770.) The Turks offered iron forsate; yet the Roman amhassadors, wi#i strange obstinaoy, persisted in believing thatit was all a trick, and that their country produced none. (Menander in Excerpt. Leg.p. 152.) b Of Irgana-kon. (Abulghazi Khan, Hist. Genealogique des Tartars, P. 2. 0. 5.p. 71—77. c. 15. p. 155.) The tradition of the Moguls, of the four hundred andfifty years which they passed in the mountains, agrees with the Chinese periods ofthe history of the Huns and Turks, (De Guignes, tom. 1. part 2. p. 376.) and thetwenty generations, from the restoration to Zingis.