OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP; XLJ potamia were diligently strengthened, and the posts whichappeared to have any command of ground or water,were occupied by numerous forts, substantially built ofstone, or more hastily erected with the obvious materialsof earth and brick. The eye of Justinian investigatedevery spot; and his cruel precautions might attract thewar into some lonely vale, whose peaceful natives, con­nected by trade and marriage, were ignorant of nationaldiscord and the quarrels of princes. Westward of theEuphrates, a sandy desert extends above six hundredmiles to the Red sea. Nature had interposed a vacantsolitude between the ambition of two rival empires: theArabians, till Mahomet arose, were formidable only asrobbers: and, in the proud security of peace, the fortifica­tions of Syria were neglected on the most vulnerable side. But the notional enmity, at least the effects of thatenmity, had been suspended by a truce, which continuedabove fourscore years. An ambassador from the empe^ror Zeno accompanied the rash and unfortunate Perozes,in his expedition against the Nepthalites or White Huns,whose conquest had been stretched from the Caspian tothe heart of India, whose throne was enriched with eme-rraids,5 and whose cavalry was supported by a line of twothousand elephants.' The Persians were twice circum-fvented, in a situation which made valour useless andflight impossible; and the double victory of the Hunswas achieved by military stratagem, They dismissed superstitions, of Herodotus. The promise was not in th,e primitive lie of Eusehius,but dates at least from the year 400; and a third lie, the Veronica, was soon raisedon the two former. (Evagrius, lib. 4. c. 27.) As Edessa has been taken, Tillemontmust disclaim the promise. (Mem. Ecules. tom. 1. p. 362.383. 617.) • They were purchased from the merohants of Adulis who traded to India; (Cos-mas, Topograph. Christ. lib. 11. p. 339.) yet, in the estimate of precioas stones, theScythian emerald was the first, the Bactrian the second, the jEthiopian only thethird. (Hill's Theophrastus. p. 61. &c. 92.) The production, mines, &c. of eme­ralds, are involved in darkness; and it is doubtful whether we possess any of thetwelve sorts known to the ancients. (Goguet. Origine des'Loix, &c. part 2. lib. 2. o. 2.art. 3.) In this war Ihe Huns got, or at least Perozes lost, the fmest pearl in the'world, of which Procopius relates a ridiculous fable. ■• 1 The Indo-Scythai continued to reign from the time of Augustus (Dionys. Perie-get. 1088. with the Commentary of Eustathius, jo Hudson, Geograph. Minor, tom.4.)to that of the eldest Justin. (Cosmas, Topograph. Christ. lib. 11. p. 338, 339.) Ontheir origin and conquests, see d'Anville (sur l'lude, p. 18. 45. &c. 69. 83. 8,9.) I».the second century they were musters of Larice or Guezernl,