OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 25 and sea, and to hasten the declaration of war. After afurther embassy of ten men had confirmed the statementthat Carthage was in reality arming (602), the senate 152.rejected the demand of Cato for an absolute declaration ofwar, but resolved in a secret sitting that war should bedeclared if the Carthaginians would not consent to dismisstheir army and to burn their materials for a fleet. Mean­while the conflict had already begun in Africa. Massinissahad sent back the men whom the Carthaginians had banished,under the escort of his son Gulussa, to the city. Whenthe Carthaginians closed their gates against them and killedalso some of the Numidians returning home, Massinissaput his troops in motion, and the patriot party in Carthagealso prepared for the struggle. But Hasdrubal, who wasplaced at the head of their army, was one of the usual inca-pables whom the Carthaginians were in the habit of employingas generals; strutting about in his general's purple like atheatrical king, and pampering his portly person even in thecamp, that vain-glorious and unwieldy man was little fittedto render help in an exigency which perhaps even thegenius of Hamilcar and the arm of Hannibal could have nolonger averted. Before the eyes of Scipio -32milianus, who,at that time a military tribune in the Spanish army, hadbeen sent to Massinissa to bring over African elephants forhis commander, and who on this occasion looked down onthe conflict from a mountain "like Zeus from Ida," theCarthaginians and Numidians fought a great battle, inwhich the former, though reinforced by 6000 Numidianhorsemen brought to them by discontented captains ofMassinissa, and superior in number to the enemy, wereworsted. After this defeat the Carthaginians offered tomake cessions of territory and payments of money to Massi­nissa, and Scipio at their solicitation attempted to bringabout an agreement; but the project of peace was frus­trated by the refusal of the Carthaginian patriots to sur­render the deserters. Hasdrubal however, closely hemmedin by the troops of his antagonist, was compelled to grantto the latter all that he demanded—the surrender of thedeserters, the return of the exiles, the delivery of arms, themarching off under the yoke, the payment of 100 talents(£24,400) annually for the next fifty years. But even thisconvention was not kept by the Numidians; on the contrarythe disarmed remnant of the Carthaginian army was cut topieces by them on the way home.