OCR Output 134 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. or if, when he is dead, her first husband wouldmarry her again, it shall not be lawful for herto return to him. If a woman's husband die,and leave her without children, let his brothermarry her, and let him call the son that isborn to him, by his brother's name, and edu­cate him as the heir of his inheritance; forthis procedure will be for the benefit of thepublic; because thereby families will not fail,and the estate will continue among the kin­dred; and this will be for the solace of wivesunder their affliction, that they are to be mar­ried to the next relations of their former hus­bands. But if the brother will not marry her,let the woman come before the senate, andprotest openly that his brother will not admither for his wife, but will injure the memoryof his deceased brother, while she is willingto continue in the family, and to bear himchildren. And when the senate have enquiredof him, for what reason it is that he is averseto this marriage, whether he gives a bad orgood reason, the matter must come to thisissue; that the woman shall loose the sandalsof the brother, and shall spit in his face, andsay, " He deserves this reproachful treatmentas having injured the memory of the de­ceased." And then let him go away out ofthe senate, and bear this reproach upon himall his life long; and let her marry to whomshe pleases, of such as seek her in marriage.*But if any man take captive either a virgin,or one that hath beenf married, and has amind to marry her, let him not be allowed tobring her to his bed, or to live with her as hiswife, before she hath her head shaven, andhath put on her mourning habit, and lamentedher relations and friends that were slain inthe battle; that by this means she may give vent to her sorrow for them, and after thatmay betake herself to feasting, and matri­mony; for it is good for him who takes a wo­man in order to have children by her, to becomplaisant to her inclinations, and not merelyto pursue his own pleasure, while he hath noregard to what is agreeable to her. But whenthirty days are past, as the time of mourning,(for so many are sufficient for prudent per­sons for lamenting the dearest friends,) thenlet them proceed to the marriage. But incase when he hath gratified his desires, he betoo proud to retain her for his wife, let himnot have it in his power to make her a slave,but let her go away whither she pleases, andhave that privilege of a free woman.J As to those young men that despise theirparents, and do not pay them honour, butoffer them affronts; either because they areashamed of them, or think themselves wiserthan they. In the first place, let their parentsadmonish them in words; (for they are bynature of authority sufficient for becomingtheir judges,) and let them say thus to them:"That they cohabited together, not for thesake of pleasure, nor for the augmentation oftheir riches, by joining both their stocks to­gether; but that they might have children, totake care of them in their old age; and mightby them have what they then should want;"and say farther to him, " When thou wast bornwe took thee up with gladness; and gave Godthe greatest thanks for thee; and brought theeup with great care, and spared for nothingthat appeared useful for thy preservation, andfor thy instruction in what was most excellent.And now, since it is reasonable to forgive thesins of those that are young, let it suffice theeto have given so many indications of thy con-many other customs of that ancient people, in common withthe inhabitants of Syria, and with the Arabians in general."' * Deut. xxv. 5. From this ancient custom the Athe-uians appear to have that remarkable law, that no heiressmust marry out of her kindred, but shall resign up her­self and fortune to her nearest relations: and by the samelaw the nearest relation was obliged to marry her. Pot­ter's Gr. Ant. vol. i. p. 159. Among the modern eastern nations we still meet withthe law, or custom, of marrying the brother's widow.Thus Olearius (Ambassador's Travels into Persia, p. 417,Eng. edit.) informs us concerning the Circassians: "Whena man dies without issue, his brother is obliged to marrythe widow, to raise up seed to him." Volney, (Voyageen Syrie, tom. ii. p. 74,) observes, that "the Druzes re­tain, to a certain degree, the custom of the Hebrews,which directed a man to marry his brother's widow: butthis is not peculiar to them, for they have this as well as Amongst the Arabians, if a father left one or morewidows, the sons often marry them, provided they werenot their own mothers. This usage was suppressed byMohammed; and before this time it was marked with adegree of detestation. Lord Haile's (Annals of Scotland,p. 39,) informs us, that this custom prevailed in Scotlandso late as the eleventh century: and he supposes that itmight have originated from avarice, in order to relievethe heir from the payment of a jointure. B. t Here it was supposed that this captive's husband, ifshe were before a married woman, was dead before, orrather was slain in this battle. Otherwise it would havebeen adultery in him that married her t Deut. xxi. 14