OCR Output CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 343 <*. CHAP. XXVII. The Dictator marches against the Mqui and Volsci. ./\LL these things were performed with remarkabledispatch, and the consul, C. Julius being left for the de­fence of the city; and L. Julius, general of the horse, toprovide for the sudden exigencies of the war, that theirmotions might not be retarded with any thing they mightwant in the camp, the dictator vowed, in a form pre­scribed by A. Cornelius, the pontifex Maximus, the greatgames, on account of the present confusion. Theninarching out of the city, and dividing his commandwith the consul Quinctius, he came up with the enemy.As they had observed that the enemy had two camps, atno great distance from each other, they likewise encamp­ed about a mile from them, the dictator at a place nearTusculum, and the consul near Lnnuvium. Thus theyhad tour armies, and as many fortified camps, .with aplain in the middle, not only large enough to admit ofskirmishes between small parties, but to,contain the ar­mies on both sides, drawn up in battalia. From the mo­ment the camps lay in this opposite direction, a singleday did not pass without small encounters; the dictatorgiving the soldiers full liberty to try their strength withthe enemy, that the event of these skirmishes might gra­dually lead them to hopes of victory m a general battle.Wherefore, the enemy despairing of success, by fight­ing it fairly in the open plain, attacked the consul'scamp in the night, staking their all upon a very uncer­tain event. The sudden shout they raiser", not onlyalarmed the consul's guards, and afterwards his wholearmy, but roused the dictator himself. In cases of im­mediate danger, the consul wanted not courage, norconduct. A party was ordered to reinforce the guards,at the gates, and others to post themselves round therampart. In the dictator's camp, as there was less hurryand confusion, so he could the better provide'for thepresent exigence. Wherefore, having immediately dis­patched a reinforcement to the consul's camp, under thecommand of his lieutenant-general, Sp. Posthumius,Q