OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL presence and example; and we are informed that Hadrian, as wellas Trajan, frequently condescended to instruct the unexperiencedsoldiers, to reward the diligent, and sometimes to dispute with;them the prize of superior strength or dexterity40, Under thereigns of those princes, the science of tactics was cultivated with suc­cess; and as long as the empire retained any vigour, their militaryinstructions were respected, as the most perfect model of Romandiscipline. The legions Nine centuries of war had gradually introduced into the serviceperoT*. n^any alterations and improvements. The legions described byPolybius*', and commanded by the Scipios, differed very materiallyfrom those which atchieved the victories of Caesar, or defended themonarchy of Hadrian and the Antonines. The constitution of theImperial legion may be described in a few words 4\ The heavy-armed infantry, which composed its principal strength 4J, was di­vided into ten cohorts, and fifty-five companies, under the ordersof a correspondent number of tribunes and centurions. The firstcohort, which always claimed the post of honour and the custody ofthe eagle, was formed of eleven hundred and five soldiers, themost approved for valour and fidelity. The remaining nine cohortsconsisted each of five hundred and fifty-five; and the whole bodyof legionary infantry amounted to six thousand one hundred men.Arms. Their arms were uniform, and admirably adapted to the nature oftheir service: an open helmet, with a lofty crest; a breast-plate, orcoat of mail j greaves on their legs, and an ample buckler on theirleft arm. The buckler was of an oblong and concave figure, four sectin length, and two and a half in breadth, framed of a light wood,covered with a bull's hide, and strongly guarded with plates ofbrass. Besides a lighter spear, the legionary soldier grasped in hisright hand the formidable pilumt a ponderous javelin, whose utmostlength was about six feet, and which was terminated by a massytriangular point of steel of eighteen inches4*. This instrument was