OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 293 padocian territories, while the Bithyno-Roman fleet continuedto blockade the Bosporus. In the beginning of the spring of 666 Mithradates as- Mith- [85.sumed the offensive. On a tributary of the Halys, the radates oc-Amnias (near the modern Tesch Kopri), the Pontic van- cl:Ples Asiaguard of cavalry and light-armed troops encountered the l mor'Bithynian army, and notwithstanding its very superior num­bers so broke it at the first onset that the beaten army dis­persed and the camp and military chest fell into the handsof the victors. It was mainly to Neoptolemus and Archelausthat the king was indebted for this brilliant success. The farmore wTetched Asiatic militia, stationed further back, there-ujion gave themselves up as vanquished even before theyencountered the enemy; when the generals of Mithradatesapproached them, they dispersed. A Roman division was de­feated in Cappadocia; Cassius sought to keep the field inPhrygia with the militia, but he discharged it again withoutventuring on a battle, and threw himself with his few trust­worthy troops into the towns on the upper Meander, par­ticularly into Apamea. Oppius in like manner evacuatedPamphylia and shut himself up in the Phrygian Laodicea;Aquillius was overtaken while retreating at the Sangarius inthe Bithynian territory and so totally defeated, that he losthis camp and had to seek refuge at Pergamus in the Romanprovince; the latter also was soon overrun and Pergamusitself fell into the hands of the king, as likewise the Bosporusand the ships that were there. After each victory Mithra­dates had dismissed all the prisoners belonging to the militiaof Asia Minor, and had neglected no step to raise to a higherpitch the national sympathies that were from the first di­rected towards him. Now the whole country as far as theMaeander was with the exception of a few fortresses in hispower; and news at the same time arrived, that a new revo­lution had broken out at Rome, that the consul Sulla des­tined to act against Mithradates had instead of embarkingfor Asia marched on Rome, that the most celebrated Romangenerals were fighting battles with each other in order tosettle to whom the chief command in the Asiatic war shouldbelong. Rome seemed zealously employed in the work of Anti-self-destruction: it is no wonder that, though even now R°ma"minorities everywhere adhered to Rome, the great body of ™°vememsthe natives of Asia Minor joined the Pontic king. Hellenesand Asiatics united in the rejoicing which welcomed the