OCR Output 50 QUICKSILVER. remain, and retain the names given them by their discoverers.7One of these, now called Bebulo, yielded Hannibal 300 weightdaily; it runs into the mountain for 1500 paces; and through thisspace the Aquitani draw off the water night and day, measuringtheir time by the burning of their lamps, and discharge a streamas large as a river. When a vein of silver is found at the surface,it is called Crudaria.» The antients continued to dig down untilthey came to a stratum of Alumen;9 beyond this they made nofarther search. But a vein of white copper 1 having been latelyfound below the alumen, the miners are induced to go still lower.The vapour which arises from silver mines is injurious to all ani­mals, and especially to dogs. Both gold and silver are the morebeautiful the softer they are. It is generally thought to be re­markable that silver should leave a black streak behind it 32. OF QUICKSILVER. There is in these veins a stone, which discharges a substancethat always remains fluid, called Quicksilver, but which is deathto every thing.* It corrodes and destroys the vessels in which itis Jcept, oozing through them with its baneful poison. All things,except 'gold, float in it; that substance alone is attracted to it.On this account it is very useful in refining gold, separating it fromall the impurities, by repeatedly shaking it in earthen vessels whichcontain pieces of leather. The quicksilver is then separated fromthe gold by pressing the prepared skins, through which it exudeslike perspiration, leaving the pure gold behind. For the samereason, in gilding bronzes,3 if quicksilver be rubbed over them,the gold leaves will adhere firmly to the bronze. But by the light ? Aristotle speaks of the great quantity of silver brought from Spain bythe Phoenicians; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 127. We have likewise an accountof the silver mines of Spain in Diodorus Siculus, lib. v. sec. 35, 6. s The French translator informs us that cruda ria are two Castilianwords, signifying veine crue; t. x. note in p. 616. 9 Alumen is treated of in lib. xxxv. sec. 52; also by Dioscorides, lib. v.cap. 77. The word appears to have been applied both to the aluminousores and to the salt obtained from them; although it was probably in animpure state. 1 Probably arsenicated copper. • Here is probably intended to be a kind of pun between the words " ar-gentum vivum" and " venenum.' • " Mia."