OCR Output 354 ROMAN EMPIRE. the law are the guides of their conscience and the ora­cles of their faith. From the Atlantic to the Ganges,the Koran is acknowledged as the fundamental code,not only of theology, but of civil and criminal jurispru­dence; and the laws which regulate the actions and theproperty of mankind, are guarded by the infallible andimmutable sanction of the will of God. This religionsservitude is attended with some practical disadvantage;the illiterate legislator had been often misled by his ownprejudices and those of his country; and the institutionsof the Arabian desert may be ill adapted to the wealthand numbers of Ispahan and Constantinople. On theseoccasions, the cadhi respectfully places on his head theholy volume, and substitutes a dexterous interpretationmore apposite to the principles of equity, and the man­ners and policy of the times. His beneficial or pernicious influence on the His merit *~ , towards Ms public happiness is the last consideration in thecouutiy' character of Mahomet. The most bitter or mostbigoted of his Christian or Jewish foes, will surely allowthat he assumed a false commission to inculcate a salu­tary doctrine, less perfect only than their own. He pi­ously supposed, as the basis of his religion, the truth andsanctity of their prior revelations, the virtues and mira­cles of their founders. The idols of Arabia were brokenbefore the throne of God; the blood of human victimswas expiated by prayer, and fasting, and alms, the laud­able or innocent arts of devotion; and his rewards andpunishments of a future life were painted by the imagesmost congenial to an ignorant or carnal generation. Ma­homet was perhaps incapable of dictating a moral andpolitical system for the use of his countrymen: but hebreathed among the faithful a spirit of charity and friend­ship, recommended the practice of the social virtues, andchecked, by his laws and precepts, the thirst of revengeand the oppression of widows and orphans. The hostiletribes were united in faith and obedience, and the valour