OCR Output 1054 SVMAKTIIUS. SYCE. as lie speaks of a Tillage of this name (ivKautvuviniA.is)on the cout between Ptolctna'is and Caesareia,near Mount Carntel, called also Ilepha ('H<f>ct) in hisday. (Onomait. s. v. '\a<p€&.) Dr. Wilson, however,thinks that the modern Haifa '* more probably oc­cupies the site of the ' Mutatio Calamon,' given inthe Jerusalem Itinerary as 12 Roman miles fromPtolemaif, while the ' Mansio Sicamenos' of the samework was 3 miles farther on. Ruina have been dis­covered along the shore, about 2 Roman miles to thethe W. of Haifa ; . . . these ruins may have beenthose of Syeaminos." (Lands of' the Bible, vol. ii.p. 241.) Haifa is a small walled town to the S. ofthe Bay of Acre, at the northern base of the pro­montory of Mount Cannel, distant about 10 milesfrom Ptolemaia (Acre); a distance far too small toHtiafy the statement of the Itinerary of Antoninus,or even that of the Jerusalem Itinerary. But, not­withstanding this, its identity with Syeamina seemsto be sufficiently established by the testimony ofEuscbius, joined to the historical fact recorded byJoaephua, which better suits this than any otherplace on the coast, being in fact the very place whereIbrahim Pasha, when engaged in a similar enterpriseagainst Acre, landed some of his troops and concen­trated his army, in 1831, preparatory to formingthe siege of the town. (Aldcrson, Note* on Acre,pp. 23, 24.) [G. W.] SYCE (SuVij), a town of Cilicia, which accord­ing to the Ravenna Geographer, who calls it Sycae(i. 17), was situated between Arsinoe and Celenderis.(Athen. iii. 5; Steph. B. s. v. 2u*ai'.) Leake(Asia Minor, p. 202) looks for its site near themoder Kizliman. [L. S.] SYCKON, a town of Galatia, situated at thepoint where the river Siberis flowed into theSangarina, (Procop. tie Aed. v. 4: ViL Theod.Syceotae, 2; Weasel, ad Bierod. p. 697.) [L. S.] SYCU'RIUM, a town of Theaulj in the districtPelasgiotis, at the foot of Mt. Ossa, which Leakeidi-uiities with Marmarianu (Lav. xhi. 54; Leake,Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 374.) SYEBI MONTES (to. 2inj€a Uprj, PtoL vi 14.§ 8). a mountain chain in Sevthia, running fromthe Tapori mountains in a NE. direction towardsImaua. [T. H. D.] SYEDRA (2iJ*Spa: Eth. 2uefy«i>'s), a coast-townin the west of Cilicia, between Coracesium andSelinua (Strab, xiv. p. 669, when the commonbut erroneous reading is Arsinoe; Steph. B. s. v.;PtoL v. 8. § 1; HierocL p. 683; Lucati, viii. 259;Klor. iv. 2.) It should, however, be observed thatStephamu B. calls it a town of Iaauria, and thatHierocles assigns it to Pamphylia. Beaufort(Karamania, p. 178) observed some ruins on asteep hill in that district, which he thinks may murkthe site of Syedra; and Mr. Hamilton, in his mapof Asia Minor, also marks the ruins of Sydre onthe same spot, a little to the south-cast of Alaya,the ancient Coracesium. [L. S.] SYENE (SvftffV, Herod, ii. 30; Strab. ii. p. 133,xvii. p. 797, acq.; Steph. B. s. v.; PtoL vii. 5. §15, viii. 15. § 15; 1'lin. ii. 73. a. 75, v. 10. s. 11,vi. 29. s. 34; It. Ant. p. 164), the modern Assouan,was the frontier town of Aegypt to the S. Syene•tood upon a peninsula on the right bank of theNile, immediately below the Great Falls, which ex­tend to it from Phi lee. It is supposed to have de­rived its name from Suan, an Aegypt ian goddess,the llithya of the Greeks, and of which the importis "the opener;" and at S\eue Upper Aegypt was in all ages, conceived to open or begia.quarries of Syene were celebrated f«r tierand especially for the marble called Zyende.furnished the colossal statues, obelisks, udiithal shrines which are found throughoutand the traces of the quarrymen whothese 3000 years ago are still risible is the Irock. They lie un either bank ut the Nik. iroad, 4 miles in length, was cut b*-<iie ti-eaSyene to Philae. Syene was equally lmmilitary station and as a plait- "I t-ar: .every dynasty it was a garrison town; aed ftwere levied toll and custom on all boats awsouthward and northward. The latitude of Sreai24° 5' 23" — was an object of great interest*ancient geographers. They believed that it iseated immediately under the tropic, tattthe day of the summer solstice a vertical staff tno shadow, and the suns disc was reflected iaa<at noonday. This statement U iadeed tnosnthe ancients were not acquainted with tat Itropic: yet at the summer-sulst ice the lengthefshadow, or Ti^th of the atari", could scareeiy be Icemed, and the northern limb of the sunsdit***:be nearly vertical. The Nile is neaxir *} **j mwide above Syene. From this frontier tewa tonorthern extremity of Aegypt it flows tor mm t!750 miles without bar or cataract. Tfte «ajJfrom Syene to Alcxaudreia usually occupied few*21 and 28 days in favourable weather. [W.BJ SYGAMBKL [Sicambkl] SYLIXA INSULA. [Shara.] SYLUUM (SoAAiOK), a fortified unPamphylia, situated on a lofty height mtmAapendus and Side, and between the rivendon and Ce>trus, at a distance of 40 stadiathe coast. (Strab. xiv. p. 667; Amin, Am25; Scylax, p. 40; PtoL v. 5. § 1; HwrorL p,Polyb. sxii. 17; Steph. B. mention* iiname iv\tiov, while in other passages it n\aiov, SuAAoy, and Xt\ouov.) Sir C. Feiaiwa(JMimr, p. 200) thinks that the remains of at*town which he found in a wood on the oaterocky hill near Bolcascooe belong to the aadSyIlium; but from his description they do not ^to exist on a lofty height. [L ■ SYMAETHUS (iv/uutos: &wt>>, mm ef'most considerable rivers of Sicily, which nan iichain of lions Nebrodes, in the great tare? Icalled the Bosco di Car\mia, and flows from litema southerly direction, skirting the U*»* of Aer=a,it turns to the K. and flows into the ten atai,miles S. of Catania. In the lower part of *cso*it formed the boundary between the terrifcwjLeontini and that of Cat ana. (Thuc n 6S)receives in its course many tributaries, ofmost considerable are, tne Fiuate Saim,from the neighbourhood of AVvm andprobably the Cyamosorus o:' Polyoma (L 9\he describes as flowing near <-::... (Oand the ItUtaino, which rises in theAsaro, the ancient Asaorus. This is und--alstr&im called in ancient times Chkyaas. Skof Byzantium apparently gives the nam* efto the upper part or main branch of theitself, which flows under the walls of Ji(Ailerno). This part of the river is stiflthe Simeto; but in the lower part of nawhere it approaches the sea, it is now knawaOiarrcUa. Such differences of name are cin modern, as well as in ancient turn*. The!