OCR Output 366 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. excepting Judea. But when Nebuchadnez­zar had already reigned four years, whichwas the eighth of Jehoiakim's governmentover the Hebrews, the king of Babylon madean expedition with mighty forces against theJews, and required tribute of Jehoiakim;threatening upon his refusal to make waragainst him. He was affrighted at his threat­ening, and bought his peace with money;and brought the tribute he was ordered tobring for three years. But on the third year, upon hearing thatthe king of Babylon made an expeditionagainst the Egyptians, he did not pay histribute; yet was he disappointed of his hope,for the Egyptians durst not fight at this time.And indeed the prophet Jeremiah foretoldevery day how vainly they relied on theirhopes from Egypt; and how the city wouldfoe overthrown by the king of Babylon,* andJehoiakim the king would be subdued byhim. But what he thus spoke, proved to beof no advantage to them, because there werenone that should escape. For both the mul­titude, and the rulers when they heard him,had no concern about what they heard: butbeing displeased at what was said, as if theprophet were a diviner against the kings,they accused Jeremiah; and bringing himbefore the court, they required that a sen­tence of punishment might be given againsthim. Now all the rest gave their votesfor his condemnation; but the elders pru­dently sent away the prophet from the courtof the prison, and persuaded the rest to dohim no harm. For they said he was not theonly person who foretold what would cometo the city, but that Micah signified the samebefore him, as well as many others; none ofwhom suffered any thing of the kings thatthen reigned, but were honoured as the pro­phets of God. So they appeased the multi­tude with these words, and delivered Jere- miah from the punishment to which he wascondemned.f Now when this prophet hadwritten all his prophecies, and the peoplewere fasting, and assembled at the temple, onthe ninth month of the fifth year of Jehoiakim,he read the book he composed, containinghis predictions of what was to befall the city,the temple, and the multitude. And whenthe rulers heard of it, they took the bookfrom him, and bade him and Barucb thescribe to go their ways, lest they should bediscovered by one or the other. They thencarried the book to the king, who gave orderin the presence of his friends, that his scribeshould read it: but when he heard what itcontained, he was angry, and tore it, and castit into the fire, where it was consumed. Healso commanded they should seek for Jere­miah, and Baruch the scribe, and bring themto him that they might be punished. How­ever, they escaped his anger. A little time afterward, the king of Baby­lon made an expedition against Jehoiakim;who received him into the city; and this outof fear of the foregoing predictions of Jere­miah, as supposing he should suffer nothingthat was terrible; because he neither shutthe gates, nor fought against him. Yet whenhe was come into the city, he did not observethe covenants he had made; but he slewsuch as were in the flower of their age, andsuch as were of the greatest dignity; togetherwith their king Jehoiakim, whom he com­manded to be thrown before the walls, with­out any burial, and made his son Jehoiachirjking of the country, and of the city; he alsotook the principal persons in dignity for cap­tives, three thousand in number, and ledthem away to Babylon. Among whom wasthe prophet Ezekiel, who was then but young.And this was the end of king Jehoiakim,when he had lived thirty-six years, and reigned eleven.J But he was succeeded in —.—. . —- . -— * The prophet's words upon this occasion, are these:Because ye have obeyed the commandments of Jona-dab, your father, and kept all his precepts, and done ac­cording to all that he hath commanded you; thus saiththe Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Jonadab, the sonof Rechab, shall not want a man to stand before me forever, Jer. xxxv. 18, 19. To stand before a prince, or to■ee his face, in Scripture-phrase, denotes the honourwhich accrues from being in his service, but the Recha-bites were neither priests nor Levites. Hitherto theyhad lived in the fields, separate from towns and villages, and were averse indeed to any employment either inchurch or state; but from the time of their captivity,(for they were carried along with the two tribes,) we-hnd them employed as singers and porters in the serviceof the temple. To serve in this capacity, there was nonecessity for their being of the tribe of Levi; the decla­ration of the divine will by the mouth of the prophetJeremiah, was in this case a sufficient vocation. Colmei'sCommentary on Jer. xxv. 19. B. t Jeremiah xxvi. 8—24. j From an. 610 to an. 599.