OCR Output AN. 1148.] 185 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. This assembly did not escape the notice ofthe Philistines. So when they had learnedthat so large a company had met together,they fell upon the Hebrews with a greatarmy, and mighty forces, as hoping to assaultthem when they did not expect it, nor were Erepared for it. This thing affrighted the[ebrews, and put them into disorder and ter­ror. So they came running to Samuel, andsaid, "Our souls were sunk by our fears,and by the former defeat we had received:and thence it was that we lay still, lest weshould excite the power of our enemiesagainst us. Now while thou hast brought ushither to offer up our prayers and sacrifices,and take oaths to be obedient; our enemiesare making an expedition against us, whilewe are naked and unarmed. Wherefore wehave no other hope of deliverance but thatby thy means, and by the assistance God shallafford us upon thy prayers to him, we shallobtain deliverance from the Philistines."Hereupon Samuel bid them be of good cheer,and promised that God would assist them.And taking a sucking lamb, he sacrificed itfor the multitude;* and besought God tohold his protecting hand over them whenthey should fight with the Philistines, andnot to overlook them, nor suffer them tocome under a second misfortune. Accord­ingly God hearkened to his prayers; and, ac­cepting their sacrifice with a gracious inten­tion, he granted them a victory over theirenemies. Now while the altar had thesacrifice of God upon it, and had not yetconsumed it wholly by the sacred fire; theenemy's army marched out of their camp,and was put in order of battle; and this inhope that they should be conquerors, sincethet Jews were caught in distressed circum­stances; as neither having their weapons with them, nor being assembled in order tofight. But things so fell out, that they wouldhardly have been credited though they hadbeen foretold by any body. For in the firstplace God disturbed their enemies with anearthquake, and moved the ground underthem to such a degree, that he caused it totremble, and made them to shake; insomuchthat by its trembling he made some unable tokeep their feet, and made them fall down;and by opening its chasms he caused thatothers should be hurried down into them.After which he caused such a noise of thunderto come among them, and made fiery light­ning shine so terribly round about them, thatit was ready to burn their faces; and he sosuddenly shook their weapons out of theirhands, that he made them flee, and returnhome naked. So Samuel, with the multitude,pursued them to a place called Bethcar; andthere he set up a stone as a boundary of theirvictory, and their enemies' flight; and calledit the stone of power; as a signal of thatpower God had given them against theirenemies. So the Pnilistines, after this stroke, madeno more expeditions against the Israelites;Jbut lay still out of fear, and out of remem­brance of what had befallen them. And whatcourage the Philistines had formerly againstthe Hebrews, after this victory, was trans­ferred to the Hebrews. Samuel also made anexpedition against the Philistines, and slewmany of them, and entirely humbled theirproud hearts, and took from them that countrywhich, when they were formerly conquerors,they had cut off from the Jews; which wasthe country that extended from the bordersof Gath to the city Ekron. But the remainsof the Canaanites were at this time in friend­ship with the Israelites. most probable opinion is, that this water was, upon thisoccasion, poured out, by way of libation, before God.And for support of this it is commonly alleged, that liba­tions of this kind were very customary in ancient times;that Theophrastus, as he is cited by Porphyry, (De Abstin.lib. 2.) tells us, that the earliest libations were of water,though afterwards honey and wine came into request:that Virgil (jEneid. iv.) mentions the practice of sprink­hng the water of the lake Avernus: and that Homer(Odyss. 12.) remarks, that for want of wine, the com­panions of Ulysses poured out water in a sacrifice, whichthey offered to the Gods. It is certain, that David pouredout unto the Lord the water which the three gallant men in his army brought him from the well of Bethlehem, atthe hazard of their lives, 2 Sam. xxiii. 16. and, therefore,though the law does not enjoin any such libations of water;yet, since there is no positive prohibition of them, whymay we not suppose, that upon this extraordinary occasion,something singular and extraordinary might have beendone? Patrick's and Calmet's Comment. B. * 1 Sam. vii. 9. t This is the first place, so far as I remember, in theseAntiquities, where Josephus begins to call his nation Jews,he having hitherto usually, if not constantly, called themeither Hebrews or Israelites. | 1 Sam. vii. 13.