OCR Output A. D. 16.] 87 OF TACITUS. bravest of the Germans, who dared to face everydanger, died under repeated wounds. The enemywas dislodged from the rampart. Germanicus, atthe head of the prsetorian cohorts, advanced into thowoods: the battle there was fierce and obstinate:both sides fought hand to hand. Behind the barba­rians lay the morass; in the rear of the Romans theriver and the woods; no room to retreat; valour theironly hope, and victory their only safety. XXI. The martial spirit of the Germans yieldedin nothing to the Romans; but their weapons, andtheir manner of fighting, were a great disadvantage.Pent up in a forest too close for such a multitude,they could neither wound at a distance, nor managetheir weapons with their usual agility. The Romans,on the contrary, with their bucklers close to thebreast, and their hands covered with the hilt of theirswords, found the large proportions of the enemy aneasy mark. They gashed the barbarians in the face,and drove them from their ranks. Arminius no longerfought with his usual ardour. Ill success, so oftenrepeated, depressed his spirit; or perhaps the wound,which he had received in the late engagement, hadexhausted his strength. Inguiomer, performing won­ders, and busy in every part of the field, was aban­doned by his fortune, not by his courage. Germani­cus threw off his helmet, that his person might bobetter distinguished; and rushing among the ranks,exhorted his men to give no quarter. He cried aloud," We have no need of prisoners: extirpate the barba­dians; nothing less will end the war." Tho daybeing far advanced, he ordered one of the legions toquit the field, in order to prepare an encampment: therest had their measure of revenge, till the approachof night put an end to the effusion of blood. In thisbattle the Roman cavalry fought with undecidedsuccess. XXII. Germanicus in a public harangue commend­ed the valour of his army; and afterwards raised apile of arms as a trophy of victory, with this splendidinscription: "The army of Tiberius Cesar, having