OCR Output TAREXTIM. TARENTUM. 1097 in territory. Meanwhile, however, he had quar-'I-nl with his allies the Tarentines, so that he.~j«r.i against them, took their colony of lleracleia,-.1 endeavoured to transfer the congress of therwk cities from thence to a place on the rivertalaodrtw, in the territory of Thurii. (Strab. vi.2*0 : Liv. viii. 24; Justin, xii. 2.) Hence hisin B.C. 226, only liberated the Tarentinesu-n an enemy instead of depriving them of an ally,try appear from this time to have either remained.r ,uil or carried on the conlest single-handed, tillc. 903, when we find them again invoking foreigntrance, and, as on a former occasion, sending toart* for aid. This was again famished them,1 a Urge army of mercenaries landed at Tarentumirr Clronytnus, the uncle of the Spartan king..* though he compelled the Mcssapians and Luca-i:-^ to sue for peace, Cleonymus soon alienated theui> of hi* Greek allies by his arrogance andrinous habits, and became the object of generaltrei before he quitted Italy, (biod. xx. 104.) ■ i»rdmg to Strabo, the Tarentines subsequently in the assistance of Agathocles (Strab. vi. p.U i; but we find no mention of this elsewhere, and; ru» tells us that he concluded an alliance with ■ UfTciam and Peucetians, which could hardlyre Urn dune with favourable intentions towardsmitum, (Died. xxi. p. 490.) V< looe after this trie Tarentines first came into.**. 3Q with a more fonnidable foe than their neigh-:r», the Mosapians and Lucanians. The wars ofRomans with the Samnites, in which the de-iuiU of the latter people, the Apulians and».*.ana, were from time to time involved, had«to1 the name and power of Home familiar toGreek cities on the Tarentinc gulf and coast ofAgnatic, thotich their arms were not carried> that part of Italy till about b. c. 283, whenv rendered assistance to the Thurians against theraruans [TilUBll]. But lunt; before this, asry as the commencement of the Second Samnitea-(n.C- 326), the Tarentines are mentioned in:tin history as supporting the Neapolitans withautea of succour, which, however, tliey nevert; aftd afterwards exciting the Lucanians to warzi*t the Romans. (Liv. viii. 27.) Again, in - 321 vrc are told that they sent a haughty em- ■ • i j command tlte Samnites and Romans toy! from hostilities, and threatened to declare war»h.«: never party refused to obey. (Id. ix. 14.)L on this occasion also they did nut put theirrat is execution. At a subsequent period, pro-.y aboot B. C. 303 (Arnold's Home, vol. ii. p.>j, the Tarentines concluded a treaty with Rome,*hich it vtt stipulated that no Roman ships oflUmJd pass the Lacinian cape. (Appian, iiam-7) It was therefore a direct breach of this tfy when, in B. c. 302, a Roman squadron of ten• ander L. Cornelius, which had been sent toa*at»tanee of the Thurians, entered the Tarrn-r-jlf. and even approached within sight of theThe Tarantines, whose hostile disposition wasady only half concealed, and who are said to - iwen the prime movers in organising the con-racy against Rom* which led to the Fourth S.mi- War (Zooar. viii. 2.), immediately attacked theaao snips, sank four of them, and took one. Afteri Utrj proceeded to attaclTOie Thurians on ac-aa of their having called in the Romans, expelled Ionian garrison, and made themselves masters~r city. (Appian, Samn. 7. § 1 ; Zooar. viii. 2.) The Romans sent an embassy to Tarentnm tocomplain of these outrages; but their demands beingrefused, and their ambassador treated with con­tumely, they had now no choice hut to declare warupon the Tarentines. B.C. 281. (Appian, /. c. § 2;Zonar. I.e.; Dion Cass. Fr. 145.) Nevertheless,the war was at first carried on with little energy;but meanwhile the Tarentines, following their usualpolicy, had invited Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, to theirasMstance. That monarch readily accepted the over­ture, and sent over his general Milo to occupy thecitadel of Tarentum with 3000 men, while he himselffollowed in the winter. (Zonar. viii. 2; Plut. J'yrrh,15. 16) It is usual to represent the Tarentines as at thisperiod sunk in luxury and effeminacy, so that theywere unable to defend themselves, and hence com­pelled to have recourse to the assistance of Pyrrhus.But there is certainly much exaggeration in thisview. They were no doubt accustomed to rely muchupon the arms of mercenaries, but so were all themore wealthy cities of Greece; and it is certain thatthe Tarentines themselves (apart from their alliesand mercenaries), furnished not only a considerablebody of cavalry, but a large force or phalanx ofheavy-armed infantry, called the Leucaspids, fromtheir white shields, who are especially mentioned asserving nnder Pyrrhus at the battle of Asculum.(Dionys. xx. Fr. Didot. 1, 5.) It is unnecessaryhere to repeat the history of the campaigns of thatmonarch. His first successes for a time savedTarentum itself from the brunt of the war : butwhen he at length, after his final defeat by Curius,withdrew from Italy (b. c. 274), it was evident thatthe full weight of the Koman arms would fall uponTarentum. Pyrrhus, indeed, left Milo with a gar­rison to defend the city, but the Tarentines them­selves were divided into two parties, the one of whichwas disposed to submit to Koine, while the otherapplied for assistance to Carthage. A Carthaginianfleet was actually bent to Tarentnm, but it arrivedtoo late, for Milo had already capitulated and sur-rendeied the citadel into the hands of the Romanconsul Papirius, B.C. 272. (Zonar. viii. 6; Oros.iv. 3.) From this time Tarentum continued subject toRome. The inhabitants were indeed left in posses­sion of their own laws and nominal inde|»endence,but the city was jealously watched; and a Komanlegion seems to have been commonly stationed there.(IVl. ii. 24.) During the First Punic War theTarentines are mentioned as furnishing ship* to theRomans (Pol. i. 20): but with this exception wehear no more of it till the Second Punic War, whenit became a military post of great importance.Hannibal was from an early period desirous to makehimself master of the city, which, with its excellentport, would at once have secured his communicationswith Africa. It is evident also that there was a strongCarthaginian party in the city, who shortly afterthe battle of Cannae, opened negotiations with Han-nibal, and renewed them upon a subsequent occasion(Liv. xxii. 61, xxiv. 13); hut they were kept downby the presence of the Koman garrison, and it wasnot till b. c. 212 that Xico and Pliilemenus, two ofthe leaders of this party, found an opportunity tobetray the city into his hands. (Liv. xxv. 8—10;Pol. viii. 2C—33.) Even then the Roman garrisonstill held the citadel; and Hannibal having failed ini his attempts to carry thU f.irtress by assault, was1 compelled to resort to a blockade. Ue cut it off on