OCR Output 516 DISSERTATION III. and the [great] sea. They have a prospect of Syria on theirnorth quarter, as at some distance from them.1 The bodies of the men are healthy, and such as will beargreat labors. They have not many showers of rain: their soil is veryfruitful: the produce of their land is, like ours, in greatplenty.2 They have also, besides ours, two trees peculiar to them足selves, the balsam-tree and the palm-tree. Their groves ofpalms are tall and beautiful. The balsam-tree is not verylarge. As soon as any branch is swelled, the vines quake asfor fear, if you bring an iron knife to cut them. They areto be opened with the broken piece of a stone, or with theshell of a fish. The juice is useful in physic. Libanus is their principal mountain, and is very high, andyet, what is very strange to be related, it is always shadowedwith trees, and never free from snow. The same mountainsupplies the river Jordan with water, and affords it its foun足tains also. Nor is this Jordan carried into the sea; it passesthrough one and a second lake undiminished, but it is stoppedby the third.3 This third lake is vastly great in circumference, as if itwere a sea.4 It is of an ill taste and is pernicious to the ad足joining inhabitants by its strong smell. The wind raises nowaves there, nor will it maintain either fishes, or such birdsas use the water. The reason is uncertain, but the fact isthus, that bodies cast into it are borne up, as by somewhatsolid. Those who can and those who cannot swim are equally 1 Seo the chorography of Judea in Josephus, Of the War, b. iii. sect. 3;whence most probably Tacitus framed this short abridgement of it. Itcomes in both authors naturally before Vespasian's first campaign. 2 The latter branch of this Tacitus might have from Josephus, Of the War,b. iii. ch. iii. sect. 2, 3, 4. The other is not in the present copies. 3 These accounts of Jordan, of its fountains derived from Mount Libanus,and of the two lakes it runs through, and its stoppage by the third, are ex足actly agreeable to Josephus, Of the War, b. iii. ch. x. sect. 7, 8. * No less than 080 furlongs long and 150 broad, in Josephus, Of the War,b. iv. ch. viii. sect. 4.