OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL, &C. {CHAP. XLVI. France and India: and the feme of Moses, Alexander,and Hercules," was eclipsed, in the popular estimation, bythe superior merit and glory of the great Heraclius. Yetthe deliverer of the east was indigent and feeble. Of thePersian spoils, the most valuable portion had been ex­pended in the war, distributed to the soldiers, or buried,by an unlucky tempest, in the waves of the Euxine.The conscience of the emperor was oppressed by the ob­ligation of restoring the wealth of the clergy, which hehad borrowed for their own defence: a perpetual fundwas required to satisfy these inexorable creditors; theprovinces, already wasted by the arms and avarice of thePersians, were compelled to a second payment of thesame taxes; and the arrears of a simple citizen, the trea­surer of Damascus, were commuted to a fine of one hun­dred thousand pieces of gold. The loss of two hundredthousand soldiers* who had fallen by the sword, was ofless fatal importance than the decay of arts, agriculture,and population, in this long and destructive war: andalthough a victorious army had been formed under thestandard of Heraclius, the unnatural effort appears tohave exhausted rather than exercised their strength.While the emperor triumphed at Constantinople or Je­rusalem, an obscure town on the confines of Syria waspillaged by the Saracens, and they cut in pieces sometroops who advanced to its relief: an ordinary and triflingoccurrence, had it not been the prelude of a mightyrevolution. These robbers were the apostles of Maho­met; their fanatic valour had emerged from the desert;and in the last eight years of his reign, Heraclius lost tothe Arabs the same provinces which he had rescued fromthe Persians. « George of Pisitlia, Acroas. 3. de Expedit. contra Persas, 415, &c. and Hera-cleid, Acroas. 1. 65—138. I neglect the meaner parallels of Daniel, Timotheus, &c.Chosroes and the chagan were of course compared to Belshazzar, Pharaoh, the ordserpent, &c. * Suidas (in Excerpt. Hist. Byzant. p. 46.) gives this number; but either thePersian must be read for the I saurian war, or this passage does not belong to the em­peror Heraclius. END OF VOL. V. Printed by J. F. Dove, St. John's Square, London.