OCR Output 286 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. But Demosthenes the Athenian (for he had continuedat Naupactus ever since the vEtolian miscarriage) havingreceived intelligence of this army, and dreading the loss ofthis place, had addressed himself to the Acarnanians, andwith some difficulty, owing to his departure from Leucas,persuades them to send a succour to Naupactus. Accord­ingly, they put a thousand of their heavy-armed under hisorders, whom he threw into the town by sea, which effec­tually preserved it. For the danger before was manifest, asthe wall was very large in compass, and the number of de­fendants inconsiderable. When Eurylochus and his council had discovered thatsuch a succour had been received into the town, and thatits reduction was now impracticable, they marched awaytheir forces, not towards Peloponnesus, but to that iEtoliawhich is now called Calydon, to Pleuron, to the neighbour­ing towns, and to Proschion of iEtolia. The Ambraciotshad now been with and prevailed upon them, to join insome attempts upon Argos in Amphilochia, upon the restof that province, and Acarnania ; assuring them, that couldthese be reduced, the whole continent there would instantlygo over to the Lacedaemonian league. Eurylochus havingassured them of his concurrence, and given the iEtolianstheir dismission, halted thereabouts with his army, till theAmbraciots had entered upon the expedition against Argos,and it was time for him to join them. And here the sum­mer ended. The Athenians in Sicily, the beginning of the winter,putting themselves at the head of their Grecian allies, andas many of their Sicilian as unable to support the Syracusanyoke had revolted from Syracuse to join them, began freshoperations of war in concert, and assaulted Nessa a town ofSicily, the citadel of which was in the hands of the Syra-cusans. But the attempt was unsuccessful, and they againdetermined to draw off. During the retreat, the Syracusanssallying forth, fell upon those allies of the Athenians whomarched in the rear, and with such force, that they put