OCR Output CHAP. XLIv] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 185 garrison. Datius, the orthodox bishop, who had se­duced his countrymen to rebellion' and ruin, escaped tothe luxury and honours of the Byzantine court ;s butthe clergy, perhaps the Arian clergy, were slaughteredat the foot of their own altars by the defenders of theCatholic faith. Three hundred thousand males werereported to be slain ;h the female sex, and the more pre­cious spoil, was resigned to the Burgundians; and thehouses, or at least the walls of Milan, were levelled withthe ground. The Goths, in their last moments, were Destructionrevenged by the destruction of a city, second only t0ofM,llu'-Rome in size and opulence, in the splendour of its build­ings, or the number of its inhabitants; and Belisariussympathized alone in the fate of his deserted and devotedfriends. Encouraged by this successful inroad, Theode-bert himself, in the ensuing spring, invaded the plainsof Italy with an army of one hundred thousand barba­rians.1 The king, and some chosen followers, weremounted on horseback, and armed with lances; the in­fantry, without bows or spears, were satisfied with ashield, a sword, and a double-edged battle-axe, which, intheir hands, became a deadly and unerring weapon.Italy trembled at the march of the Franks; and boththe Gothic prince and the Roman general, alike ignorantof their designs, solicited, with hope and terror, thefriendship of these dangerous allies. Till he had securedthe passage of the Po on the bridge of Pavia, the grand- r Baronius applauds his treason, and justifies the Catholio bishops—qui ne sub he-retico principe degant omnem lapidem movent—an useful caution. The more rationalMuratori (Annali d' Italia, torn. 5. p, 54.) hints at the guilt of perjury, and blames atleast the imprudence of Datius. K St. Datius was more successful against devils than against barbarians. He tra­velled with a numerous retinue, and occupied at Corinth a large house. (Baronius, A. •D. 538. no. 89. A. D. 539. no. 20.) b MupiaSec Tjiaxwra. (compare Procopius, Goth. lib. 2.0. 7. 21.) Yet such popu­lation is incredible; and the second or third city of Italy need not repine if we onlydecimate the numbers of the present text. Both Milan and Genoa revived in lessthan thirty years. (Paul Diacon. de Gestis Langobard, lib. 2. c. 38.) 1 Besides Procopius, perhaps too Roman, see the Chronicles of Marius and Mar-cellinns, Jornandes, (in Success. Regn. in Muratori, torn. 1. p. 241.)and Gregory ofTours, (lib. 3. c. 32. in torn. 2. of the Historians of France.) Gregory supposes adefeat of Belisarius, who, in Aimoin, (de Gestis Franc, lib. 2. c. 23. in torn. 3. p. 59.)is slain by the Franks. VOL. V. O