OCR Output 48 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. were dropped, they retired again within the walls, and theMacedonians marched away to the Athenians: so that thecavalry of neither side had any share in the action. Afterthe battle the Athenians erected a trophy, and granted a sus­pension of arms to the Potida?ans for fetching off their dead.There were killed of the Potidaeans and allies very near threehundred, and of the Athenians one hundred and fifty, withCallias their general. The Athenians, without loss of time, throwing up a workagainst the wall which faceth the isthmus, blockaded theplace on that side, but the wall towards the Pallene they leftas they found it. For they thought their number was byno means sufficient to keep the guard within the isthmus,and to pass over to the Pallene side, and block it up alsothere. They were apprehensive, that thus divided the Poti-daeans and their allies might fall upon them. And the Athe­nians at home, hearing there was no work on the Palleneside, send thither a thousand and six hundred heavy-armedof their own people, under the Command of Phormio the sonof Asopius, who arriving upon the Pallene, and havinglanded his men at Aphytls, marched forwards to Potidaea,advancing slowly and laying waste the country as he movedalong. And, as nobody ventured out to give him opposi­tion, he also threw up a work against that side of the wallwhich faceth the Pallene. By these methods was Potidaeaclosely blocked up on either side, and also by the shipswhich lay before it at sea. The blockade being thus perfected, Aristeus, destitute ofany means of saving the place, unless some relief should ar­rive from Peloponnesus, or some miracle should happen, pro­posed it as his advice that " all excepting five hundred menshould lay hold of the first favourable wind to quit the place,that the provisions might for a longer time support the rest;"declaring " his own readiness to be one of those who stayedbehind." Though he could not prevail with them, yetwilling in this plunge to do what could be done, and to man­age affairs abroad in the best manner he was able, he made