OCR Output NOTES ON THE FIFTEENTH CHAPTER. [91] See a chain of tradition, from JuSia Mar­tyr to Jerome, in the Morale des Peres, c. iv. 6—26. [92] See a very curious Dissertation on the Vestals,in the Memoires de l'Acaderoie des Inscriptions,torn ii. p. 161—227. Notwithstanding the ho­nours and rewards which were bestowed on thosevirgins, it was difficult to procure a sufficient num­ber; nor could the dread of the most horrible deathalways restrain their incontinence. [93] Cupiditatem procreandi aut unam scimusautnullam. Minucius Fælix.c. 31. Justin. Apolog.Major. Athenagoras in Legat. c. 28. Tertulliande Cultu Fcemin. 1. ii. [94] Eusebius, 1. vi. 8. Before the fame ofOrigen had excited envy and persecution, this ex­traordinary action was rather admired than censured.As it was his general practice to allegorize scrip*ture; it seems unfortunate that, in this instanceonly, he sliould have adopted the literal fense. [95] Cyprian. Epistol. 4. and Dodwell Difler-tat. Cyprianic. iii. Something like this rash at­tempt was long afterwards imputed to the founderof the order of Fontevrault. Bay le has amusedhimself and his readers on that very delicate subject. [96] Dnpin (Bibliotheque Ecclefiastique, torn. i.P- '95-) gives a particular account of the dialogueof the ten virgins, as it was composed by Metho­dius, Bishop of Tyre.. The praises of virginity areexcessive. [97] The Ascetics (as early as the second cen­tury) made a public profession of mortifying theirbodies, and of abstaining from the use of flesh andwine. Mofheim, p 310. [98] See the Morale des Peres. The fame pa­tient principles have been revived since the Refor­mation'by the Socinians, the modern Anabaptists,and the Quakers. Barclay, the apologist of theQuakers, has protected his brethren, by the autho­rity of the primitive christians, p. 542—549. [99] Tertullian, Apolog. c. 21. De Idolatria, c.17, 18. Origen contra Celsum, 1. v. p. 253. Lvii. p. 348. L viii. p. 423—418. [too] Tertullian (de Corona Militii, c. 11.) sug­gests to them the expediences deserting; a counsel, which, if it had been generally known, was notvery proper to conciliate the favour of the empe­rors towards the chriijian sect. [101] As well as we can judge from the muti-,lated representation of Origen, (1. viii. p. 423 ) hisadversary, Celsus, had urged his objection withgreat force and candour. [102! The Aristocratical party in France, as wellas in England, has strenuously maintained the di­vine origin of bishops. But the Calvinistical presrbyters were impatient of a superior; and the Ro­man pontiff refused to acknowledge an equal. SeeFra-Paolo. [103] In the history of the christian hierarchy,I have, for the most part, followed the learned andcandid Mofheim. [104] For the prophets of the primitive church,,fee Mofheim, Dissertation es ad Hist. Ecclef. per-tihentes, torn. ii. p. 132—208. [105] See the epistles of St. Paul, and ofClemens, to the Corinthians. [106] Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity, I vii. [107] See Jerome ad Titum, c. 1. and Eplstol.85 (in the Benedictine edition, tot). What heobserves of the bishop and presbyters of Alexandria,receives a remarkable confirmation from the patri­arch Eutychius (Annal. torn. i. p. 330. Vers.Pocock); whose testimony I know not how to reject,in spite of all the objections of the learned Pearson,irr his Vindici* Ignatianx, part i. c. 11. [108J See the introduction to the Apocalypse,Bishops, under the name of Angels, were alreadyinstituted in seven cities of Asia. And ytt theepistle of Clemens (which is probably of as ancienta date) does not lead us to discover any traces os'episcopacy either at Corinth or Rome. [109J Nulla Ecclesia sine Episcopo, was a fact aswell as a maxim from the time of Tertullian andIrenæus. [110] After we have passed the difficulties of thefirst century, we find the episcopal governmentuniversally established, till it was interrupted by the republican