OCR Output AN. 1531.] 113 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. one should have it for all time to come, andhad made it secure and firm to him, to haverefused it. However, he himself will judgeagain, who it shall be whom he would haveto offer sacrifices to him, and to have the di­rection of matters of religion. For it is ab­surd that Corah, who is ambitious of this ho­nour, should deprive God of the power ofgiving it to whom he pleases. Put an end,therefore, to your sedition and disturbanceon this account, and to-morrow morning letevery one who desires the priesthood bring acenser from home, and come hither with in­cense and fire.* And do thou, O Corah,leave the judgment to God; and await to seeon what side he will give his determinationupon this occasion. But do not thou makethyself greater than God. Do thou also come,that this contest about this honourable em­ployment may receive determination. Andsuppose we may admit Aaron without of-ence, to offer himself to this scrutiny; sincele is of the same lineage with thyself; andlas done nothing in his priesthood that canbe liable to exception. Come ye thereforetogether, and offer your incense in public be­fore all the people: and when you offer it,he whose sacrifice God shall accept shall beordained to the priesthood, and shall be clearof the present calumny on Aaron, as if I hadgranted him that favour because he was mybrother." CHAP. Ill OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THOSE WHO FOMENTED THE SE­DITION J AND OF THE DIVINE APPROVAL OF AARON'SPRIESTHOOD. WHEN Moses had said this, the multi­tude left off the turbulent behaviourthey had indulged, and the suspicion they hadentertained of Moses; and commended whathe had said: for those proposals were good,and were so esteemed of the people. At thattime therefore they dissolved the assembly.But on the next day they came to the congre­gation, in order to be present at the sacrifice,and at the determination that was to be madebetween the candidates for the priesthood.Now this congregation proved a turbulentone, and the multitude were "in great sus- * Numb. xiv. 6,7. pense in expectation of what was to be done.And some of them would have been pleasedif Moses had been convicted of evil practices:but the wiser sort desired that they might bedelivered from the present disorder and dis­turbance; for they were afraid that if thissedition went on, the good order of theirsettlement would be destroyed. But thewhole body of people do naturally delightin clamours against their governors; and, bychanging their opinions upon the haranguesof every speaker, disturb the public tran­quility. And now Moses sent messengers forAbiram and Dathan; and ordered them tocome to the assembly, and wait there for theholy offices that were to be performed. Butthey answered the messengers, that theywould not obey his summons; nay, would notoverlook Moses's behaviour, who was grow­ing too great for them by evil practices. Nowwhen Moses heard this answer, he desiredthe heads of the people to follow him, and hewent to the faction of Dathan, not fearing togo to these insolent people; so they made noopposition, but went along with him. But Da­than and his associates, when they understoodthat Moses, and the principal of the people,were coming to them, came out with theirwives and children, and stood before theirtents; and looked to see what Moses woulddo. They had also their servants at hand todefend them, in case Moses should use force.But he came near, and lifted up his handsto heaven, and cried out with a loud voice,in order to be heard by the whole multitude;and said, " O Lord of the creatures that arein the heaven, in the earth, and in the sea: forthou art the most authentic witness to what Ihave done, that it has all been done by thyappointment; and that it was thou that afford-est us assistance when we attempted anything, and shewed mercy to the Hebrews inall their distresses. Do thou come now, andhear all I say; for no action nor thought es­capes thy knowledge; so that thou wilt notdisdain to speak what is true, for my vindica­tion; without any regard to the ungratefulimputations of these men. As for what wasdone before I was born, thou knowest best:as not learning them by report, but seeingthem, and being present with them when theywere done. But for what has been done oflate, and which these men, although they