OCR Output J. I. INTRODUCTION. 43 junction of all their strength. And, to these people, thusabandoning their own homes, he made a cession of that partof Mygdonia which lieth round the lake of Bolbe, for theirsubsistence during the war with the Athenians. Havingthus demolished their own cities, they went to another placeof residence, and were employed in preparations for thewar. The thirty ships of the Athenians, arriving on the coastsof Thrace, find Potidea and the other cities already re­volted. The commanders, judging it impossible with theirpresent strength to act against Perdiccas and the revoltedcities both, turn their course towards Macedonia, pursuingthe first design of the expedition. Landing there they joinedin the war with Philip and the brothers of Derdas, who withan army had made an irruption from the inland country. In the mean time, Potidaea being now in revolt and theAthenian fleet on the Macedonian coasts, the Corinthians,anxious for the security of that place, and making the dan­ger their own, dispatched thither some volunteers of theirown people and other Peloponnesians taken into their pay,in all sixteen hundred heavy-armed* and four hundredlight-armed. The command of this body of men was givento Aristeus the son of Adimantus; since, out of their ownprivate affection to him who had ever been a steady friendto Potidaea, most of the volunteers from Corinth had under­taken the service : and the time of their arrival in Thrace wasthe fortieth day after the revolt of Potidaea. An express soon arrived at Athens with the news of therevolt of the cities, and when afterwards they heard of the * The heavy-armed wore a complete suit of armour, and engaged withbroad shields and long spears. They were the flower and strength cf theGrecian armies, and had the highest rank of military honour. The light-armed were designed for skirmishes and fighting at a distance. Theirweapons were arrows, darts, or slings. The targeteert, mentioned often inthis history, were a middle sort of soldiery, armed with targets or narrowshields and spears, neither large nor heavy.