OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 241 guntines forming with their bodies a bnlwark to theirnative city, instead of its wall, of which it had beenstripped ; not one of them giving ground, lest be shouldmake room for the enemy to enter by th'e space. Thegreater therefore the eagerness of the combatants, andthe closer their ranks, the more wounds consequentlywere received, no weapon falling without taking effecteither in their bodies or armor. 9. The Saguntines had a missile weapon called fa-larica, with a shaft of fir, round, except towards theend, to which the iron was fastened : this part, whichwas square, as in a javelin, they bound about with towand daubed with pitch : it had an iron bead three feetlong, so that it could pierce both armor and body toge­ther : but what rendered it most formidable was, thatbeing discharged with the middle part on fire, and themotion itself increasing greatly the violence of theflame, though it struck in the shield without penetra­ting to the body, it compelled the soldier to throwaway his arms, and left him without defence againstsucceeding blows. Thus the contest long continueddoubtful; and the Saguntines, finding that they suc­ceeded in their defence beyond expectation, assumednew courage ; while the Carthaginian, because he hadnot obtained the victory, deemed himself vanquished.On this the townsmen suddenly raised a shout, pushedback the enemy among the ruins of the wall, drovethem off from that ground, where they were embar­rassed and confused, and, in fine, compelled them tofly in disorder to their camp. 10. In the mean time an account was received thatambassadors had arrived from Rome; on which Han­nibal sent messengers to the sea-shore to meet them,and to acquaint them that it would not be safe for themto come to him through the armed bands of so manysavage nations; and besides, that in the present criticalstate of affairs, he had not leisure to listen to embassies.He saw clearly that on being refused audience, theywould proceed immediately to Carthage: he thereforedespatched messengers and letters beforehand to the LIV. VOL. III. Q