OCR Output C. IX.] VESPASIAN. 59 6. But as the truth came out in time, it appeared how theaffairs of Jotapata really stood; yet was it found that thedeath of Josephus was a fiction; and when they understoodthat he was alive, and was among the Romans, and that thecommanders treated him at another rate than they treatedcaptives, they were as vehemently angry at him now as theyhad showed their good-will before, when he appeared to havebeen dead. He was also abused by some as having been acoward, and by others as a deserter: and the city was fullof indignation at him, and of reproaches cast upon him;their rage was also aggravated by their afnictions, and moreinflamed by their ill success; and what usually becomes anoccasion of caution to wise men, I mean affliction, became aspur to them to venture farther on calamities, and the endof one misery became still the beginning of another; they,therefore, resolved to fall on the Romans the more vehe­mently, as resolving to be revenged on him in revengingthemselves on the Romans. And this was the state of Jeru­salem as to the troubles which now came upon it. 7. But Vespasian, in order to see the kingdom of Agrippa,while the king persuaded him himself so to do (partly in or­der to his treating the general and his army in the best andmost splendid manner his private affairs would enable him todo, and partly that he might, by their means, correct suchthings as were amiss in his government,) he removed fromthat Ccesarea which was by the sea-side, and went to thatwhich is called Csesarea Philippi;1 and there he refreshedhis army for twenty days, and was himself feasted by kingAgrippa, where he also returned public thanks to God for thegood success he had in his undertakings. But as soon as hewas informed that Tiberias was fond of innovations, and thatTaricheae had revolted, both which cities were parts of thekingdom of Agrippa, and was satisfied within himself thatthe Jews were every where perverted [from their obedienceto their governors,] he thought it seasonable to make an ex­ 1 Of this Caesarea Philippi (twice mentioned in our New Testament, Mat­thew, xiT. 13; Mark, viii. 27, there are coins still extant, as Spanheim heroinforms us.