OCR Output CHAP. IV. ROMAN HISTORY. 335 and that he was made the eleventh tribune, and by thathieans quieted the tumult occasioned by the death ofMaelius. But it is hardly probable, that the fatherswould have suffered the number of tribunes to be aug­mented, or allowed such a precedent to beset by oneof their own order; nor that the people, once a con­cession had been made them, would tamely have givenit up again. But what proves the inscription on Minu-cius'a statue to be entirely fictitious, is the law made afew years before, whereby it is provided that the tri­bunes could not choose a colleague by co-optation. -D. Caecilius, Q. Junius, and Sextus Titinus were theonly tribunes that opposed the law for conferring ho­nours op Minucius, whom, or Servilius", they were con­stantly accusing to the people, and complaining of theunmerited fate of Maelius; and so carried that militarytribunes, in preference to consuls, should be elected for. that year; being fully persuaded, if six military tribunes,the number allowed by law, were elected, some of thePlebeians, by promising to revenge the death of Mslius,would be among the, number. However multiplied anddiversified the distractions of the city that year; no morethan three tribunes were elected with consular authority,and among them too, L. Quintius, the son of that Cin-cinnatus, in odium of whose dictatorship, the confusionwas projected. Marcus .SLtnilius, a man of singularmerit, was first in the nomination, Quintus second, andL. Julius third. CHAP. XVII. Tlie Roman ambassadors murdered at Fidena. JL/URING their administration, Frdenae, a Romancolony revolted to Lars Tolumnius, king of the Ve-jentes. This rebellion was attended with a crime of amore heinous nature : For, by order of Tolumnius, theyput to death C. Fulcinius, Clcelius Tullus, Sp. Ancius,and -L. Roscius, who had been commissioned by theRomans to enquire into the reason of their conduct.Some authors, in extenuation of the king's guilt, alledge,that upon occasion of a lucky throw of the dice, some