OCR Output 512 [book xit ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. magistrates, senate, and people of Sidon,sendeth greeting. If you be in health, it iswell: I also, and the army, are well. I havesent you a copy of that decree, registered onthe tables, which concerns Hyrcanus, the sonof Alexander, the high-priest and ethnarch ofthe Jews; that it may be laid up among thepublic records. And I will that it be openlyproposed in a table of brass, both in Greekand in Latin. It is as follows :—I, JuliusCaesar, imperator the second time, and high-priest, have made this decree, with the ap­probation of the senate. Whereas Hyrcanusthe son of Alexander, the Jew, hath demon­strated his fidelity and diligence about ouraffairs; and this both now and in formertimes; both in peace and in war, as many ofour generals have borne witness; and cameto our assistance in the last *AIexandrian war,with fifteen hundred soldiers; and when hewas sent by me to Mithridates, shewed him­self superior in valour to all the rest of thatarmy: for these reasons I will, that Hyrca­nus, the son of Alexander, and his children,be ethnarchs of the Jews, and have the high-priesthood of the Jews for ever; accordingto the customs of their forefathers: and thathe and his sons be our confederates: and thatbesides this, every one of them be reckonedamong our particular friends. I also ordain,that he and his children retain whatsoeverprivileges belong to the office of high-priest;or whatsoever favours have been hithertogranted them. And if at any time hereafterthere arise any question about the Jewishcustoms, I will that he determine the same.And I think it not proper that they should beobliged to find us winter quarters; or thatany money should be required of them." "The decrees of Caius Caesar, consul:containing what hath been granted and de­termined, are as follows: That Hyrcanus andhis children bear rule over the nation of theJews, and have the profits of the places tothem bequeathed; and that himself as the high-priest and ethnarch of the Jews, defendthose that are injured. And that ambassadors be sent to Hyrcanus, the son of Alex­ander, the high-priest of the Jews, that maydiscourse with him about a league of friend­ship and mutual assistance; and that a tableof brass, containing the premises, be openlyproposed in the capitol, and at Sidon, andTyre, and Ascalon, and in the temple; en­graven in Roman and Greek characters; thatthis decree may also be communicated to thequaestors and pretors of the several cities, andto the friends of the Jews: and that the am­bassadors may have presents made them, andthat these decrees be sent every where." "Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator, consul,hath granted that out of regard to the honourand virtue and kindness of the man, and forthe advantage of the senate and of the peopleof Rome, Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander,and his children, be high-priests, and priestsof Jerusalem, and of the Jewish nation, bythe same right, and according to the samelaws, by which their progenitors have heldthe priesthood." "Caius Caesar,t consul the fifth time, hathdecreed, that the Jews shall possess Jerusa­lem; and may encompass that city withwalls; and that Hyrcanus, the son of Alex­ander, the high-priest, and ethnarch of theJews, retain it, in the manner he himselfpleases: and that the Jews be allowed to de­duct out of their tribute, every second yearthe land is let in the sabbatic period, a corusof that tribute. And that the tribute theypay be not let to farm, nor that they pay al­ways the same tribute." "Caius Caasar, imperator the second time,hath ordained, that all the country of theJews, excepting Joppa, do pay a tributeyearly Jfor the city Jerusalem; excepting theseventh, which they call the sabbatical year:because thereon they neither receive the fruitsof their trees, nor do they sow their land: andthat they pay their tribute in Sidon, on the * That Hyrcanus was himself in Egypt, along withAntipater, at this time: to whom accordingly the boldand prudent actions of his deputy Antipater are hereascribed; as this decree of Julius Caesar supposes, weare farther assured, by the testimony of Strabo, alreadyproduced by Josephus, chap. 8. But as for the otherniceties in these decrees on behalf of the Jews, most ofwhich are but lately recovered in our editions of Jose­phus, but which are of the most authentic authority, as compared with the Roman customs, and other records;and what light arises from them to the other Roman au­thors and antiquities, they only belong to the learned inthe Roman affairs, and shall not therefore be dwelt uponin this English version. Jacobus Gronovius, &c. in Ha-vercamp's edition, will generally afford the inquisitivereader abundant satisfaction. t See the note on chap. 8. X Probably to rebuild the walls, or to keep them in repair.