OCR Output 198 [BOOK VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Saul promised to do what he was com­manded; and supposing that his obedience toGod would be shewn not only in making waragainst the Amalekites, but more fully in thereadiness and quickness of his proceedings;he immediately gathered together all hisforces. And when he had numbered themin Gilgal, he found them to be about fourhundred thousand of the Israelites; besidesthe tribe of Judah; for that tribe containedby itself thirty thousand. Accordingly Saulmade an irruption into the country of theAmalekites; and set many men and severalparties in ambush at the river; that so hemight not only do them a mischief by openfighting; but might fall upon them unexpect­edly in the ways, and might thereby surround,and kill them. And when he had joined battlewith the enemy, he beat them, and pursuingthem as they fled, he destroyed them all.And when that undertaking had succeeded,according as God had foretold; he besiegedthe cities of the Amalekites, and took themby force; partly by warlike machines, partlyby mines dug under ground, and partly bybuilding walls on the outsides. Some theystarved out by famine, and some they gainedby other methods; and after all he betookhimself to slay the women and the children,and thought he did not act therein either bar­barously or inhumanly: first, because theywere enemies whom they thus treated; andin the next place, because it was done by thecommand of God; whom it was dangerous-^ not to obey. He also took Agag, the enemies'-*; king, captive. The beauty and tallness ofwhose body he admired so much, that hethought him worthy of preservation. Yetwas not this done according to the will ofGod; but by giving way to human .passions,and suffering himself to be moved with anunseasonable commiseration, in a point whereit was not safe to indulge it. For God hatedthe nation of the Amalekites, to such a de­gree, that he commanded Saul to have nopity even on those infants which we by naturechiefly compassionate. Saul, however, pre­served the king from the miseries which the Hebrews brought on the people; as if hepreferred the tine appearance of the enemyto the memory of what God had sent himabout. The multitude were also guilty, to­gether with Saul; for they spared the herdsand the flocks, and took them for a prey;when God had commanded they should notspare them. They also carried off the restof their wealth and riches; but if there wereany thing that Was not worthy of regard, thatthey destroyed.* When Saul had conquered all these Amale­kites that reached from Pelusium of Egypt,to the Red Sea; he laid waste all the rest ofthe enemies' country; but for the nation ofthef Sichemites, he did not touch them, al­though they dwelt in the very middle of theCountry of Midian. For before the battle,Saul had sent to them, and charged them todepart thence, lest they should be partakersof the miseries of the Amalekites. For hehad a just occasion for saving them, sincethey were of the kindred of Raguel, Moses'sfather-in-law. Hereupon Saul returned home with joy forthe glorious things he had done, and for theconquest of his enemies; as though he hadnot neglected any thing which the prophethad enjoined him to do when he was going tomake war with the Amalekites; and as thoughhe had exactly observed all that he ought tohave done. But God was grieved that theking of the Amalekites was preserved alive;and that the multitude had seized on thecattle for a prey; because these things weredone without his permission. For he thoughtit an intolerable thing that they should con­quer their enemies by that power which hegave them; and then that he himself shouldbe so grossly despised and disobeyed, that amere man that was a king would not bear it.He therefore told Samuel, he repented thathe had made Saul king; while he did nothingthat he had commanded him, but indulgedhis own inclinations. When Samuel heardthat, he was in confusion, and began to be­seech God all that night to be reconciled toSaul, and not to be angry with him. But he larly seeking to injure, and utterly to destroy the nationof Israel. See Exod. xvii. 8—16. Numb. xiv. 45. Dent,xxv. 17, 18, 19. Judg. vi. 3, 6. vii. 12. x. 12. 1 Sam. xv.33. xxx. 1, 2. Psal. Ixxxiii. 7. and above all, the most bar­barous of all cruelties, that of Human the Agagite, or, one of the posterity of Agag, the old king of the Amalekites.Esth. iii. 1—15. * 1 Sam. xv. 9. t Kenites, 1 Sam. xv. 6.