OCR Output OF TACITUS. 8 dignity of pontiff and sedile: on the latter, by his birthobscure, but eminent for military talents, and the com­panion of all his victories, he conferred the honour oftwo successive consulships; and in a short time after,upon the untimely death of Marcellus, chose him forhis son-in-law. Tiberius Nero, and Claudius Drusus,the sons of his wife Livia, were adorned with the titleof Imperator, though the succession in the house ofAugustus was at that time well secured by otherbranches of the house of Csesar. He had alreadyadopted into the imperial family Caius and Lucius,the two sons of Agrippa; and to see them, even be­fore they had put on the manly gown, considered asprinces of the Roman youth, and marked out as futureconsuls, was his ardent desire; though, for politicalreasons, he chose to disguise his sentiments. To ob­tain those honours for his family was the wish of hisheart; while, under a show of coy reluctance, he seem­ed to reject them. Agrippa departed this life, and ina short time after his two sons were cut off; LuciusCsesar on his road to join the army in Spain; andCaius on his return from Armenia, where he had re­ceived a wound that impaired his health. Whetherthey died by their own premature fate, or the machi­nations of their step-mother Livia, is to this day pro­blematical. Drusus had paid his debt to nature, leav­ing Tiberius the only surviving son-in-law of the*emperor. The current of court favour was nowdirected that way. He was adopted by Augustus,declared his colleague in the government, his asso­ciate in the tribunitian power, and shown as the risingsun to the army, not, as before, by the secret arts ofLivia, but with her open and avowed direction.Augustus was now in the decline of life, and Liviahad gained unbounded influence over his affections.By her contrivance Agrippa Posthumus, the only sur-iviving grandson of the emperor, was banished to the:isle of Planasia. In praise of this young man muchcannot be said: he was a stranger to the liberal arts,uncouth, unformed, and stupidly valuing himself onhis bodily strength; yet free from vice, or the impu­tation of crime. a2