OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL took refuge in the episcopal palace, and though it was somewhatearly to advance any claims of ecclesiastical immunities, the-bishop-refused to deliver him up to the officers of justice. For this treason­able resistance, Mensurius was summoned to court, and instead ofreceiving a legal sentence of death or banishment, he was permitted,after a short examination, to return to his diocese ,6'. Suchwas die happy condition of the Christian subjects of Maxentius,that whenever they were desirous of procuring for their own useany bodies of martyrs, they were obliged to purchase them fromthe most distant provinces of the East. A story is related of Aglae,a Roman lady, descended from a consular family, and possessed ofso ample an estate, that it required the management of seventy-threestewards. Among these, Boniface was the favourite of his mistress;and as Aglae mixed love with devotion, it is reported that he wasadmitted to share her bed. Her fortune enabled her to gratify thepious desire of obtaining some sacred relics from the East. Sheintrusted Boniface with a considerable sum of gold, and a largequantity of aromaticsj and her lover, attended by twelve horsemenand three covered chariots* undertook a remote pilgrimage, as far as-Tarslis iniGUiaiR>,:0.. randtheEati ^ne sanguinary temper of Galerius, the first and principal au-"erfula^ds thor osuhe persecution,, was. formidable to those Christians, whomIfeximin. tftejr misfortunes had placed within the limits of his dominions;,and it may fairly be presumed,, that many persons of a middle rank,who were not confined by the chains either of wealth on of poverty,,very frequently deserted their native country, and sought a refugeinr the milder climate of the Welh As long as he commanded onlythe armies and provinces of Illyricum, he could with difficulty eitherfind or make a considerable number of martyrs* in a warlike country,which had entertained the missionaries of. the .gospel with marccoldness and reluctance than any other part of the:empire Butwhen Galerius had obtained the supreme power and the government of