OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 415 CHAP. X. How Eurycles falsely accused Herod's sons ', and hc/w their fatherbound them and wrote to Caesar about them. Of Sylleus, andhow he was accused by Nicolaus. J 1. IKE disorders about Herod's family and childrenabout this time grew much worse; for it now appeared certain,nor was it unforeseen beforehand, that fortune threatened the Greatest and most insupportable misfortunes possible to hisingdom. Its progress and augmentation at this time arose onthe occasion following: One Eurycles, a Lacedemonian, (a per足son of note there, but a man of a perverse mind, and so cunningin his ways of voluptuousness and flattery, as to indulge both,and yet seem to indulge neither of them,) came in his travels toHerod, and made him presents, but so that he received morepresents from him. He also took such proper seasons for in足sinuating himself into his friendship, that he became'one ofthe most intimate of the king's friends. He had his lodging inAntipater's house; but he had not only access, but free conver足sation with Alexander, as pretending to him that he was in greatfavour with Archelaus, the king of Cappadocia; whence hepretended much respect to Glaphyra, and, in an occult manner,cultivated a friendship with them all, but always attending towhat was said and done, that he might be furnished with ca足lumnies to please them all. In short, he behaved himself so toevery body in his conversation, as to appear to be his particularfriend, and he made others believe that his being any where wasfor that person's advantage. So he won upon Alexander, whowas but young; and persuaded him, that he might open hisgrievances to him with assurance, and with nobody else. So hedeclared his grief to him, how his father was alienated fromhim. He related to him also the affairs of his mother, and ofAntipater; that he had driven them from their proper dignity,and had the power over every thing himself; that no part ofthis was tolerable, since his father was already come to hatethem; and he added, that he would neither admit them to histable, nor to his conversation. Such were the complaints, aswas but natural, of Alexander, about the things that troubledhim: and these discourses Eurycles carried to Antipater; andtold him, he did not inform him of this on his own account, butthat, being overcome by his kindness, the great importance ofthe thing obliged him to do it: and he warned him to have acare of Alexander, for that what he said was spoken with ve-hemency, and that, in consequence of what he said, he wouldcertainly kill him with his own hand. Whereupon Antipater,