OCR Output Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 299 6. But as soon as he was gone away, some men came andbound Hyrcanus and Phasaelus, while Phasaelus greatly re­proached the Parthians for their perjury. However, that but­ler who was sent against Herod had it in command to get himwithout the walls of the city, and seize upon him; but messen­gers had been sent by Phasaelus to inform Herod of the per,fuliousness of the Parthians: Arid when he knew that the enemyhad seized upon them, he went to Pocorus, and to the most po­tent of the Parthians, as to the lords of the rest, who, althoughthey knew the whole matter, dissembled with him in a deceit­ful way; and said, "That he ought to go out with them before"the walls, and meet those who were bringing him his letters,"for that they were not taken by his adversaries, but were"coming to give him an account of the good success Phasaelus"had had." Herod did not give credit to what they said; for hehad heard that his brother was seized upon by others also: and thedaughter of Hyrcanus, whose daughter he had espoused, was hismonitor also [not to credit them,] which made him still moresuspicious of the Parthians, for although other people did notgive heed to her, yet did he believe her as a woman of verygreat wisdom. 7. Now while the Parthians were in consultation what wasfit to be done; for they did not think it proper to make an openattempt upon a person of his character; and while they put offthe determination to the next day, Herod was under great dis­turbance of mind; and rather inclining to believe the reports heheard about his brother and the Parthians, than to give heed towhat was said on the other side, he determined, that when theevening came on, he would make use of it for his flight, and notmake any longer delay, as if the dangers from the enemy werenot yet certain. He therefore removed with the armed menwhom he had with him; and set his wives upon the beasts, asalso his mother, and sister, and her whom he was about to marry,[Mariamne] the daughter of Alexander, the son of Aristo-bulus, with her mother the daughter of Hyrcanus, and hisyoungest brother, and all their servants, and the rest of the mul­titude that was with him, and without the enemies' privity pur­sued his way to Idumea: Nor could any enemy of his, who thensaw him in this case, be so hard hearted, but would have com­miserated his fortune, while the women drew along their infantchildren, and left their own country, and their friends in prison,with tears in their eyes, and sad lamentations, and in expecta­tion of nothing but what was of a melancholy nature. 8. But for Herod himself, he raised his mind above the mi­serable state he was in, and was of good courage in the midst ofhis misfortunes; and, as he passed along, he bid them every one VOL. II. P V 25