OCR Output 360 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. words Hezekiah was troubled, and said, hewas himself unwilling that his nation shouldfall into such calamities; yet since it was notpossible to alter what God had determined,he prayed that there might be peace whilehe* lived.f Berosus also makes mention ofthis Baladan, king of Babylon. Now as tothis prophet, Isaiah, he was by the confessionof all, a divine and wonderful man in speak­ing truth; and out of the assurance that hehad never written what was false, he wrotedown all the prophecies, and left them be­hind him in books; that their accomplish­ment might be judged of from the events byposterity. Nor did this prophet do so alone;but the others, which wereJ twelve in num­ber, did the same. And whatever is doneamong us, whether it be good, or whether itbe bad, comes to pass according to the pro­phecies. CHAP. HI. OF THE IMPIETY OF MANASSEH, HEZEKIAH'S SUCCESSOR;HIS PENITENCE IN CAPTIVITY, AND HIS RESTORATION TOHIS KINGDOM. WHEN the king Hezekiah had sur­vived the interval of time alreadymentioned, and had dwelt all that time inpeace, he died: having completed fifty-fouryears of his life, and reigned ||twenty-nine.But when his son Manasseh, whose mother's name was Hephzibah of Jerusalem, hadtaken the kingdom, he departed from theconduct of his father; and fell into a courseof life quite contrary thereto; and shewedhimself in his manners most wicked in all re­spects, omitting no sort of impiety; but imi­tating those transgressions of the Israelites,by the commission of which against God theyhad been destroyed. For he was so hardyas to defile the temple of God, and the city,and the whole country. For by setting outfrom a contempt of God, he barbarously slewall the righteous men that were among theHebrews. Nor would he spare the pro-phets:§ for he every day slew some of them:till Jerusalem was deluged with blood.** SoGod was angry at these proceedings, andsent prophets to the king, and to the multi­tude; by whom he threatened the very samecalamities to them, which their brethren theIsraelites, upon the like affronts offered toGod, were now under. But these men wouldnot believe their words; by which belief theymight have reaped the advantage of escapingall those miseries: yet did they in earnestlearn, that what the prophets had told themwas true. Now while they persevered in the samecourse of life, God raised up war againstthem, from the king of Babylon and Chaldea;who sent an army against Judea, and laidwaste the country; and caught Manasseh by * 2 Kings xx. 19. t The words in the text are,—Then said Hezekiahunto Isaiah, Good is the word of the Lord, which thouhast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if peace andtruth be in my days? 2 Kings xx. 19. The prophet hadtold him, that the very people whom he had been sohighly complimenting would carry his posterity into cap­tivity; and to return him such an answer as this, shewsnot all the concern which a good prince ought to havefor his people and posterity. It shews, indeed, as if hecared not what became of them, so long as he was per­mitted to live easy and happy. The words in the originalare to this effect. "That which thou hast told me fromGod, is good; I will submit to it: But shall peace andtruth, i. e. solid and lasting peace, continue for my time?May I flatter myself with so much happiness? And willGod be so gracious as not to revoke the grant which hehath made me of a longer continuance here? He is just,no doubt, in every thing he sends upon us; but, do thesethreats relate to me, or my posterity only? Well wereit for me, if'he would suspend the execution of his wrathfor the little time that I have to live." This is the naturalsense of Hezekiah's answer; and accordingly Josephusmakes him say, " That though I am much afflicted at thethoughts of the misery that will befall my family, yet, since it is God's pleasure that it should be so, I haveno more to beg of Heaven, than that I may enjoy thesmall remainder of my miserable life in peace." JewishAntiq. lib. 10. c. 3. and Calmefs Commentary. B. I See Essay on the Old Testament, Supplement, page27, 28. H From an. 728 to an. 699. B. C. § The prophets who are supposed to have been livingin this king's reign, were Hoshea, Joel, Nahum, Habak-kuk, some say Obadiah; and who was the greatest pro­phet of them all, Isaiah. In the late reign he was ingreat esteem at court, and being himself of the bloodroyal, and as some say, the king's father-in-law, hethought it more incumbent upon him to endeavour to re­claim him from his degenerate wicked courses. But thisso exasperated him against Isaiah, that instead of hearken­ing to his remonstrances, he caused him to be appre­hended, and to make his torture both more lingering;,and more exquisite, had him sawn asunder, with awooden saw, to which the author of the epistle to theHebrews, chap. xi. 27. may be thought to allude.Calmefs Commentary, and Ilozeel's History in thenotes. B. ** 2 Kings xxi. 16.