OCR Output 602 ] PHLIUS. It mu at length obliged to surrender through failureof provisions in b,c 379; aud Agesjlauit appointeda council of 100 members (half from the exiles andhalf from the besieged), with powers of life anddeath over the citizens, and authorised to frame anew constitution. (Xen. I fell, v. 3. § 10. seq.;Plut. Ages. 24; Diod. xv. 20.) From this timethe Phliasians remained faithful to Sputa through-out the wln.le of the Theban War. though they hadtosuffer much from the devastation of their terri­tory by their hostile neighbours. The Argivcsoccupied and fortified Tricarannm above Phlius, andthe Sicyonians Thyamia on the Sicyonian frontier.(Xen. ffeU. vii. 2. § 1.) In B.C. 368 the city wasnearly Liken by the exiles, who no doubt belongedto the democratical party, and had been driven intoexile after the capture of the city by Agesilaui.In this year a body of Arcadians and Eleisns, whowere marching through Nemea to join Epaininondas atthe Isthmus, were persuaded by the Phliasian exilesto assist them in capturing the city. During thenight the exiles stole to the foot of the Acropolis;and in the morning when the scouts stationed by thecitizens on the hill Tricarannm announced that theenemy were in sight, the exiles seized the oppor­tunity to scale the Acropolis, of which they obtainedpossession. They were, however, repulsed in their;attempt to force their way into the town, and were 1eventually obliged to abandon the citadel also. TheArcadians and Argives were at the same time re-pulsed from the walls. (Xen. ffcB. vii. 2. §§ 5—9.)In the following year Phlius was exposed to a stillmore formidable attack from the Theban commanderat Sit-yon, assisted by Euphron, tyrant of that city.The main body of the army descended from Tri­carannm to the Heraeum which stood at the foot ofthe mountain, in order to ravage the Phliasian plain. .At the same time a detachment of Sicyonians andPeilenians were posted NK. of the Acropolis beforethe Corinthian gate, tit hinder the Phliasians from ■attacking them in their rear. But the main bodyof the troops was repulsed; and being unable tojoin the detachment of Sicyonians and PaUenians inconsequence of a ravine (<papdy£), the Phliasiansattacked and defeated them with loss. (Xen. BtlLvii. 2. § 11, seq.) After the death of Alexander, Phlius, like manyof the other Peloponneaian cities, became subject totyrants; but upon the organisation of the AchaeanLeague by Aratus, Cleonymus, who was then tyrantof Phlius, voluntarily resigned his power, and thecity joined the league. (Polyb. ii. 44.) Phlius is celebrated in the history of literature asthe binhplace of Pratmas, the inventor of the Sa-tyrie drama, and who contended with Aeschylus forthe prize at Athens. In the agora of Phlius wasthe tomb of Aristias, the son of Pratinas. (Paus.ii. 13. § 6.) Pausanias says that on the Acropolis of Phliuswas a temple of Hebe or Ganymeda. in a cypressgrove, which enjoyed the right of asylum. (Comp.St rah. viii. p. 382.) There was also a temple of]>emeter on the Acropolis. On descending from thecitadel there sbtod on the right a temple of As-clepius, and below it the theatre and another templeof Demeter. Id the agora there were also otherpublic buildings. (Paus. ii. 13. § 3, seq.) Thepriori pal place at present in the Phliasia is the vil­lage of St. George, situated at the southern foot ofTricaranum, a mountain with three summits, whichbounds the plain to the Kt). The ruins of Phlius are situated three qnaon one of the spurs ofbank of the Asopas.tent, but present littlethe south-western ukchurch of our Lady olTKTfTa), from whichV tV 'PaxiwTMTffav.of the temple of Ascremains of several Dothe town on the Asopiconsiders to be those ometer was worshipped,supposed Phlius to bethe western side of thJ'myo; but these are rrto the ancient city of ,from those already desstadia which, accordinjfrom Araethyrea to PIOn ML TricaranumHellenic fortress callerbably the fortress eremountain. (Xen. fitDent. Mtgal p. 206:Stepb. B. *. r. TpiKif,Sicyonians fortified, asvii. 2. § 1), is placedSpirit, the northernbetween the villagesthe summit are the rerprobably built by the Isouthern part of the(AiuiTKui'pior), which i(iv. 67. 68, 73). andCorinth over the mournphalia. (Peake, Marttteism im /W('/x>/mejf,jKmnrsos, vol. ii. p. 47( MAT OF THE NEIG A. Plilim. B. Arat-ihyrea or Ar C. Mount TricaranuI> I). The Atopm. I. Kuilit, perhaps of'i. The R.ue IcaiHnga, PalrdkMtron on i4. The way to Nmie PULVA. [Attic,