OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 103 chose Lucius Cornelius Scipio and Cneius Fulvius.In the beginning of this year ambassadors came fromthe Lucanians to the new consuls, with complaints that' the Samnites, finding that they could not, by anyoffers, tempt them to take part in the war, had marchedan army in a hostile manner into their country, whichthey were now laying waste ; intending, by these vio­lent measures, to force them into a compliance. Theydeclared that the nation of the Lucanians thought theirformer errors too many, and were so firmly fixed intheir resolution, that they would rather undergo everykind of suffering and hardship than ever again violatethe reverence due to the Roman name: besought thesenate to take the people of Lucania into their protec­tion, and defend them from the injustice and outrageof the Samnites; and that, on their part, though theundertaking a war with the Samnites imposed on thema necessity of being faithful to the Romans, they werenevertheless willing to give hostages.' 12. The deliberation of the senate was short. Theyall, to a man, concurred in opinion that a compactshould be entered into with the Lucanians, and satis­faction demanded from the Samnites: accordingly, afavorable answer was returned to the Lucanians, andthe alliance concluded. Heralds were then sent to re­quire of the Samnites that they should depart from thecountry of the allies, and withdraw their troops fromthe Lucanian territory. These were met by personsdespatched for the purpose by the Samnites, who gavethem warning, that ' if they appeared at any assemblyin Samnium they must not expect to depart in safety.'As soon as this was heard at Rome the senate voted,and the people ordered, that war should be declaredagainst the Samnites. The consuls then, dividing theprovinces between them, Etruria fell to Scipio, theSamnites to Fulvius; and they set out by differentroutes, each against the enemy allotted to him. Sci­pio, while he expected a tedious campaign, like that ofthe preceding year, was met near Volaterra by theEtrurians, in order of battle. The fight lasted through