OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 513 mon.] An ox is also sacrificed, which the Egyptians worshipunder the name of Apis.1 They abstain from swine's flesh, as a memorial of thatmiserable destruction which the mange, to which that crea­ture is liable, brought on them, and with which they had beendefiled.2 That they had endured a long famine, they attest still bytheir frequent fastings.3 And that they stole the fruits ofthe earth, we have an argument from the bread of the Jews,which is unleavened.4 It is generally supposed they rest on the seventh day,5because that day gave them [the first] rest from their labors.Besides which, they are idle on every seventh year,0 as beingpleased with a lazy life. Others say, that they do honorthereby to Saturn ;7 or, perhaps, the Idaei gave them thispart of their religion, who [as we said above] were expelledtogether with Saturn, and who, as we have been informed,were the founders of this nation; or else it was because thestar Saturn moves in the highest orb, and of the seven planetsexerts the principal part of that energy whereby mankind aregoverned : and, indeed, that most of the heavenly bodies exert 1 These are only guesses of Tacitus or bis heathen authors, but no more. 2 Such memorials of what must have been very reproachful, arc strangersto the rest of mankind, and without any probability. 3 The Jews had but one solemn fast of old in the whole year, the great dayof expiation. 4 Unleavened bread was only used at the passover. 5 It is very strange that Tacitus should not know or confess that the Jews'seventh day, and seventh year of rest, wero in memory of the seventh, or Sab­bath-day's rest, after the six days of creation. Every Jew, as well as everyChristian, could have informed him of those matters. o A strange hypothesis of the origin of the Sabbatic year, and without allgood foundation. Tacitus probably had never heard of the Jews' year ojjubilee, so he says nothing of it. ' As if the Jews, in the days of Moses, or long before, knew that theGreeks and Romans would long afterward call the seventh day of the weekSaturn's day; which Dio observes was not so called of old time; and it is aquestion whether before the Jews fefl into idolatry, they evor heard of sucha star or god as Saturn. Amos, v. 25: Acts, vii. 43.