OCR Output 368 FLA VIUS JOSEPH US [B. I. 13. Let us now put the case, therefore, that we made useof this argument concerning the Grecians, in order to provethat their nation was not ancient, because nothing is said ofthem in our records ; would not they laugh at us all, andprobably give the same reasons for our silence that I havenow alleged, and would produce their neighbor nations aswitnesses to their own antiquity? Now, the very same thingwill I endeavor to do ; for I will bring the Egyptians and thePhoenicians as my principal witnesses, because nobody cancomplain of their testimony as false, on account that theyare known to have borne the greatest ill-will towards us: Imean this as to the Egyptians in general all of them, whileof the Phoenicians it is known the Tyrians have been mostof all in the same ill disposition towards us : yet do I confess,that I cannot say the same of the Chaldeans, since our firstleaders and ancestors were derived from them, and they domake mention of us Jews in their records, on account of thekindred there is between us. Now, when I shall have mademy assertions good, so far as concerns the others, I will de­monstrate that some of the Greek writers have made mentionof us Jews also, that those who envy us may not have eventhis pretence for contradicting what I have said about ournation. 14. I shall begin with the writings of the Egyptians; not,indeed, of those that have written in the Egyptian language,which it is impossible for me to do. But Manctho was a manwho was by birth an Egyptian ; yet had he made himselfmaster of the Greek learning, as is very evident; for he wrotethe history of his own country in the Greek tongue, by trans­lating it, as he saith himself, out of their sacred records: healso finds great fault with Herodotus for his ignorance andfalse relation of Egyptian aff;iirs. Now this Manetho, in thesecond book of his Egyptian history, writes concerning us inthe following manner. I will set down his very words, as ifI were to bring the very man himself into a court for a wit­ness—" There was a king of ours whose name was Timaus.Under him it came to pass, I know not how, that God wasaverse to us, and there came after a surprising manner, men