OCR Output Chap. VIII. AWTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 181 fire, and plundered by them. And then it was that the Sicarii,as they were called, who were robbers, grew numerous. Theymade use of small swords, not much different in length fromthe Psrsian acwacte, but somewhat crooked, and like the Ro.man note [or sickles], as they were called : and from theseweapons these robbers got their denomination ; and with thoseweapons they slew a great many; for they mingled themselvesamong the multitude at their festivals, when they were come upin crowds from all pans to the city to worship God, as we saidbefore, and easily slew those that they had a mind to slay. Theyalso came frequently upon the villages belonging to their ene­mies, vvith their weapons, and plundered them, and set them onfire. So Festus sent forces, both horsemen and footmen, to fallupon those that had been seduced by a certain impostor, who pro­mised them deliverance and freedom from the miseries they wereunder, if they would but follow him as far as the wilderness.Accordingly those forces that were sent destroyed both him thathad deluded them, and those that were his followers also. 11. About the same time king Agrippa built himself a verylarge dining-room in the royal palace at Jerusalem, near to theportico. Now this palace had been erected of old by the chil­dren of Asamoneus, and was situate upon an elevation, and afford­ed a most delightful prospect to those that had a mind to takea view of the city, which prospect was desired by the king;and there he could lie down) and eat, and thence observe whatwas done in the temple : vjhieh thing, when the chief men ofJerusalem saw, they were very much displeased at it; for itwas not agreeable to the institutions of our country or law, thatwhat was done in the temple should be viewed by others, espe­cially what belonged to the sacrifices. They therefore erecteda wall upon the uppermost building which belonged to the innercourt of the temple towards the west, which wall, when it wasbuilt, did not only intercept the prospect of the dining-room inthe palace, but also of the western cloisters that belonged to theouter court of the temple also, where it was that the Romanskept guards for the temple at the festivals. At these doingsboth king Agrippa, and principally Festus the procurator, weremuch displeased ; and Festus ordered them to pull the walldown again ; but the Jews petitioned him to give him leave tosend an ambassage about this matter to Nero ; for they said theycould not endure to live if any part of the temple should be de*molished : and when Festus had given them leave so to do, theysent ten of their principal men to Nero, as also Ismael the high-priest, and Helcias, the keeper of the sacred treasure. Andwhen Nero had heard what they had to say, he not only for­ gave