OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 295 the remainder was fold into servitude; and so considerable was thenumber of female captives, that every soldier obtained to his sharetwo or three women. A circumstance from which we may con­clude, that the invaders entertained some designs of settlement aswell as of plunder; since in a naval expedition they were accom­panied by their families. III. The loss of their fleet, which waseither taken or funk, had intercepted the retreat of the Goths. A vastcircle of Roman posts distributed with skill, supported with firmness,and gradually closing towards a common center, forced the barbariansinto the most inaccessible parts of mount Haemus, where they found asafe refuge, but a very scanty subsistence. During* the course of arigorous winter, in which they were besieged by the emperor'stroops, famine and pestilence, desertion and the sword, continuallydiminished the imprisoned multitude. On the return of spring, A. D. 270.nothing appeared in arms except a hardy and desperate band, theremnant of that mighty host which had embarked at the mouth ofthe Niester. The pestilence which swept away such numbers of the barbarians, Msrcb.at length proved fatal to their conqueror. After a sliort but glo- emperor, whorious reign of two years, Claudius expired at Sirmium, amidst the Au^nsortears and acclamations of his subjects. In his last illness, he con- his successor-vened the principal officers of the state and army, and in their pre­sence recommended Aurelian, one of his generals, as the most de­serving of the throne, and the best qualified to execute the great de­sign which he himself had been permitted only to undertake. Thevirtues of Claudius, his valour, affability'4, justice, and tempe­rance, his love of fame and of his country, place him in that shortlist of emperors who added lustre to the Roman purple. Those vir­tues, however, were celebrated with peculiar zeal and complacencyby the courtly writers of the age of Constantine, who was the greatgrandson of Crifpus, the elder brother of Claudius. The voice offlattery was soon taught to repeat, that the gods, who so hastily had snatched