OCR Output 390 FLAVIUS JOSEPHOS [b. I. fer the observation of their laws and their religion towardsGod before the preservation of themselves and their country. 23. Now that some writers have omitted to mention ournation, not because they knew nothing of us, but becausethey envied us, or for some other unjustifiable reasons, Ithink I can demonstrate by particular instances: for Hiero-nymus, who wrote the history of [Alexander's] successors,lived at the same time with Hecateus, and was a friend ofking Antigonus, and president of Syria. Now it is plain,that Hecateus wrote an entire- book concerning us, whileIlieronymus never mentions us in his history, although hewas bred up very near to the places where we live: thus dif­ferent from one another arc the inclinations of men; whilethe one thought we deserved to be carefully remembered, assome ill-disposed passion blinded the other's mind so entirely,that he could not discern the truth. And now certainly theforegoing records of the Egyptians, and Chaldeans, andPhoenicians, together with so many of the Greek writers, willbe sufficient for the demonstration of our antiquity. More­over, besides those forementioned, Theophilus, and Theodo-tus, and Mnaseas, and Aristophanes, and Hermogenes, Eu-hemerus, also, and Conon, and Zopyrion, and, perhaps, manyothers (for I have not lighted upon all the Greek books,) havemade distinct mention of us. It is true, many of the menbefore mentioned have made great mistakes about the trueaccounts of our nation in the earliest times, because they hadnot perused our sacred books; yet have they all of themafforded their testimony to our antiquity, concerning which Iam now treating. However, Demetrius Phalereus and theelder Philo, with Eupolemus, have not greatly missed thotruth about our affairs; whose lesser mistakes ought, there­fore, to be forgiven them; for it was not in their power tounderstand our writings with the utmost accuracy. 24. One particular there is still remaining behind, of whatI at first proposed to speak to, and that is to demonstrate,that those calumnies and reproaches which some have thrownupon our nation are lies, and to make use of those writers'own testimonies against themselves; and that, in general,