OCR Output 56 LIVY. behavior; for, laying aside his diadem, purple robe,and other royal apparel, he set himself, with respect toappearance, on a level with the rest; than which no­thing can be more grateful to the people of free states.This conduct would have afforded very strong hopesof general liberty had he not debased and dishonoredall by intolerable debauchery: for, night and day, withone or two attendants, he ranged through the houses ofmarried people. He had lowered his dignity to thecommon level, consequently the less conspicuous heappeared the less restraint he was under; and thus theliberty of which he had given others an empty pros­pect, he stretched to the utmost in the gratification ofhis own unlawful desires. Money and seductive dis­courses were not always sufficient for his purposes; heeven employed violence in aid of them, and dangerouswas it for husbands and parents to show inflexiblestrictness in obstructing the brutal passions of theking. He took from Aratus (a man of distinctionamong the Achaeans) his wife, named Polycratia; and,deluding her with the hope of being married to a so­vereign prince, carried her into Macedonia. Afterspending the time of the celebration of the games, andseveral days after they were finished, in this scanda­lous manner, he marched to Dymae, with design todislodge a garrison of the jEtolians, who had beeninvited by the Eleans, and received into that city.At Dyma? he was joined by the Achssans, under Cy-cliades their chief magistrate, who were inflamed withhatred against the Eleans, because they refused to unitewith the other states of Achaia, and highly incensedagainst the jEtolians, whom they believed to be theauthors of the war carried on against them by theRomans. Leaving Dymas, and uniting their forces,they passed the river Larissus, which separates theterritory of Elis from that of Dymes. 32. The first day on which they entered the enemy'sborders they spent in plundering. On the next, theyadvanced to the city in order of battle, having sentforward the cavalry, to ride up to the gates, and pro­