OCR Output 472 DISSERTATION I. Chrysostom, lib. iv. epist. 225. — There was one Josephus, aJew of the greatest reputation, and one that was zealous ofthe law; one also that paraphrased the Old Testament withtruth, and acted valiantly for the Jews, and had showed thattheir settlement was nobler that can be described by words.Now since he made their interest give place to truth, for hewould not support the opinion of impious men, I think itnecessary to set down his words. What then does he say ?Now there was about that time Jesus, a wise man, if it belawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderfulworks, a teacher of such men as receive the truth withpleasure. He drew over to him both many of the Jews, andmany of the Gentiles : he was the Christ. And when Pilate,at the suggestion of the principal men among us, had con­demned him to the cross, those that loved him at first did notforsake him, for he appeared to them the third day alive again,as the divine prophets had said these, and a vast number ofother wonderful things concerning him; and the tribe ofChristians, so named from him, arc not extinct at this day.Now I cannot but wonder greatly at this man's love oftruth in many respects, but chiefly where he says — "Jesuswas a teacher of men which received the truth with pleasure."About A. D. 440. Sozomon. Hist. Ecrfes. lib. cap. 1. —Now Josephus, the son of Matthias, a priest, a man of verygreat note both among the Jews and the Romans, may wellbe a witness.of credit as to the truth of Christ's history ; forho scruples to call him a man, as being a doer of wonderfulworks, and a teacher of the words of truth : he names himChrist openly; and is not ignorant that he was condemned tothe cross, and appeared on the third day alive; and that tenthousand other wonderful things were foretold of him by thedivine prophets. He testifies also, that those whom he drewover to him, being many of the Gentiles as well as of theJews, continued to love him ; and that the tribe named fromhim was not then extinct. Now ho seems to me, by this hisrelation, almost to proclaim that Christ is God. However,he appears to have been so affected by the strangeness of thething, as to run as it were in a sort of middle way, so as not