OCR Output CHAP. XLVl.] OF TllE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4Q7 emperdr: he wept with impotent rage over the ruins ofhis Assyrian palaces, and disregarded too long the risingmurmurs of the nation, who complained that their livesand fortunes were sacrificed to the obstinacy of an oldman. That unhappy old man was himself tortured withthe sharpest pains both of mind and body; and, in theconsciousness of his approaching end, he resolved to fixthe tiara on the head of Merdaza, the most favoured ofhis sons. But the will of Chosroes was no longer reve­red, and Siroes, who gloried in the rank and merit ofhis mother Sira, had conspired with the malecontentsto assert and anticipate the rights of primogeniture."Twenty-two satraps, they styled themselves patriots,were tempted by the wealth and honours of a new reign:to the soldiers, the heir of Chosroes promised an increaseof pay: to the Christians, the free exercise of their re­ligion: to the captives, liberty and rewards; and to thenation, instant peace and the reduction of taxes. It wasdetermined by the conspirators that Siroes, with the en­signs of royalty, should appear in the camp; and if theenterprise should fail, his escape was contrived to the im­perial court. But the new monarch was saluted with una­nimous acclamations; the flight of Chosroes (yet where He;«de-could he have fled ?) was rudely arrested, eighteen sons a?d!'g28,were massacred before his face, and he was thrown into-^'J^.a dungeon, where he expired on the fifth day. Thedere<l b* _ 1 J Ins son Greeks and modern Persians minutely describe how siroes,Chosroes was insulted, and famished, and tortured, by Feb-28'the command of an inhuman son, who so far surpassedthe example of his father: but at the time of his death,what tongue would relate the story of the parricide ? whateye could penetrate into the tower of darkness? Accord­ing to the faith and mercy of his Christian enemies, hesunk without hope into a still deeper abyss ;p and it will ° The authentic narrative of llie fall of Chosroes is contained in the letters of He«raclins, (Cbron. Paschal, p. 398.) and the history of Theophanes, (p. 271.) P On the first rumonr of the death of Chosroes, an Heracliad in two cantos wasinstantly pnblisbed at Constantinople by George of Pisidia, (p. 97—-105.) A priestand a poet might very properly exult in the damnation of the public enemy : (i/uawroytv 7rcgTapa>, v. 56.) but such mean revenge is unworthy of a king and a conqueror;and I am sorry to find so much black superstition (0£ofta^s; Xos-fcn; ssrf 7i xai nrrce[xct