OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 63 peared neither the author nor cause of the alarm couldbe discovered. This year, in pursuance to the adviceof Flavius, a tribune of the commons, the Tusculanswere brought to a trial before the people. He pro­posed that punishment should be inflicted on those ofthe Tusculans ' by whose advice and assistance theVeliternians and Privernians bad made war on theRoman people.' The Tusculans, with their wives andchildren, came to Rome ; and in mourning habits, likepersons under accusation, went round the tribes, throw­ing themselves at the feet of the citizens with humblesupplications. This excited a degree of compassion,which operated more effectually towards procuringthem pardon than all the arguments they could urgedid towards clearing themselves of guilt. Every oneof the tribes, except the Pollian, negatived the propo­sition. The sentence of the Pollian tribe was, that the.grown-up males should be beaten, and put to death,and their wives and children sold by auction, accord­ing to the rules of war. It appears that the resent­ment which arose against the advisers of so rigorous ameasure was retained in memory by the Tusculansdown to the age of our fathers ; and that hardly anycandidate of the Pollian tribe could, ever since, gainthe votes of the Papirian. 38. In the following year, [A. U. C. 432. B. C. 320]which was the consulate of Quintus Fabius and LuciusFulvius, Aulus Cornelius Arvina being made dictator,and Marcus Fabius Ambustus master of the horse,troops were levied with greater exertion than ordinary,under the apprehension of having a more powerful op­position than usual to encounter in the war with theSamnites; who, it was reported, had procured fromtheir neighbors a number of young men for hire: anarmy therefore of extraordinary force was sent againstthem. Although in a hostile country, their camp waspitched in as careless a manner as if the foe were at agreat distance ; when suddenly the legions of the Sam­nites approached with so much boldness as to advancetheir rampart close to an outpost of the Romans. Night