OCR Output 426 NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. [Book IV. historical compromise between the two ruling rations issilently completed; the Greek and Latin nationalities con­clude mutual peace. The Greeks renounce their exclusive-ness in the field of culture, the Romans in the field ofpolitics; in instruction Latin is allowed to stand on afooting of equality—restricted, it is true, and imperfect—with Greek: on the other hand Sulla first allows foreignambassadors to speak Greek before the Roman senate with­out an interpreter. The time heralds its approach, whenthe Roman commonwealth will pass into a bilingual stateand the true heir of the throne and the ideas of Alexanderthe Great will arise in the West, at once a Roman and aGreek. The suppression of the secondary, and the mutual inter-penetration of the two primary nationalities, which are thusapparent on a general survey of national relations, nowfall to be more precisely exhibited in detail in the severalfields of religion, national education, literature, and art.Religion. The Roman religion was so intimately interwoven with the Roman commonwealth and the Roman household—so tho­roughly in fact the pious reflection of the Roman bur­gess world—that the political and social revolution neces­sarily overturned also the fabric of religion. The ancientItalian popular faith fell to the ground; over its ruins rose—like oligarchy and despotism rising over the ruins of thepolitical commonwealth—on the one side unbelief, state-reli­gion, Hellenism, and on the other side superstition, sectarian­ism, the religion of the Orientals. The germs certainly ofboth, as indeed the germs of the politico-social revolution also,may be traced back to the previous epoch (ii. 399-405). Eventhen the Hellenic culture of the higher circles was secretlyundermining their ancestral faith; Ennius introduced theallegorical and historical theories of the Hellenic religion intoItaly; the senate, which subdued Hannibal, had to sanctionthe transference of the worship of Cybele from Asia Minorto Rome, and to take the most serious steps against other stillworse superstitions, particularly the Bacchanalian scandal.But; as during the preceding period the revolution generallywas rather preparing in men's minds than assuming outwardexpression, so the religious revolution was, in substanceat any rate, the work only of the Gracchan and Sullan age.(ireek phi- Let us endeavour first to trace the tendencies associatedlosophy. with Hellenism. The Hellenic nation, which bloomed and