OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. J f 397 subordinate moneys levied from roads, bridges, and canals—mainly of customs-duties. The customs-duties of an­tiquity were, if not exclusively, at any rate principally port-dues, less frequently frontier-dues, on imports and exportsdestined for sale, and were levied by each community in itsports and its territory at pleasure. The Eomans recog­nized this principle generally, in so far as the originalsphere of the customs did not extend further than the rangeof the Roman franchise and the limit of the customs was byno means coincident with the limits of the empire, so that ageneral imperial tariff was unknown: it was only by meansof state treaties that a total exemption probably fromcustoms-dues in the client communities was secured for it­self by the Roman state, and in various cases also at leastfavourable terms in the interests of the Roman burgesses.But in those districts, which had not been admitted toalliance with Rome but were in the condition of subjectsproper and had not acquired immunity, the customs fell asa matter of course to the proper sovereign, that is, to theRoman community; and in consequence of this severallarge regions within the empire were constituted as separateRoman customs-districts, in which the several communities sheaf was levied (Appian. B. C. v. 4); the Jews by Caesar's edict contributedevery second year a fourth of the seed (Joseph, iv. 10,6; comp. ii. 5); in Ciliciaand Syria subsequently there was paid one per cent, on estate and there was inAfrica also an apparently similar tax—in which case the estate seems to havebeen valued according to certain presumptive indications, e.g., the size of theland occupied, the number of doorways, the number of head of children andslaves (exactio capitum atque ostiorum, Cicero, Ad Fam. iii. 8, 5, with referenceto Cilicia; ipopos iirX rp "yp leal rots o&tuuiui, Appian. Pun. 135 with refer­ence to Africa). In accordance with this regulation the magistrates of eachcommunity under the superintendence of the Koman governor (Cic. ad Q. Fr.i. 1, 8; SG. de Asclep. 22, 23) settled who were liable to the tax, and whatwas to be paid by each individual (imperata iiriKfpd\ia, Cic. ad Att. v. 16);if any one did not pay this in proper time, his tax-debt was sold just as inRome, i. e., it was handed over to a contractor with an adjudication to collectit (venditio tributorum, Cic. Ad Fam. iii. 8,5; ivoj omnium venditas, Cic. adAtt. v. 16). The produce of these taxes flowed into the cotfers of the leadingcommunities—the Jews, for instance, had to send their corn to Sidon—andfrom these coffers the fixed amount in money was then conveyed to Rome.These taxes also were consequently levied indirectly, and the intermediate agenteither retained, according to circumstances, a part of the produce of the taxesfor himself, or added to it from his own substance; the distinction betweenthis mode of levying and the other by means of the publicani lay merely inthe circumstance, that in the former the public authorities of the contributors, inthe latter Koman private speculators, constituted the intermediate agency.