OCR Output Chap. XXIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 323 points, and wrought himself a passage by his calumnies with thegreatest shrewdness; while he put on a face as if he were a kindbrother to Alexander and Aristobuliis, but suborned other mento inform of what they did td Herod, And when any thing wastold against Alexander, he would come in and pretend [to be ofhis side], and would begin to contradict what was said; butwould afterward contrive matters so privately, that the kingshould have an indignation at him. His general aim was this,to lay a plot, and to make it believed that Alexander lay in-waitto kill his father ; for nothing afforded so great a Confirmationto these calumnies as did Antipater's apologies for him. 2. By these methods Herod was inflamed, and, as much ashis natural affection to the young men did every day diminish,so much did it increase towards Antipater. The Courtiers alsoinclined to the same conduct, some of their own accord, andothers by the king's injunction, as particularly did Ptolemy , theking's dearest friend, as also the king's brethern, and all hischildren ; for Antipater was all in all: and what was the bit足terest part of all to Alexander, Antipater's mother was also allin all; she was one that gave counsel against them, and Was moreharsh than a stepmother, and one that hated the queen's sonsmore than is usual to hate sons-in-law. All men did thereforealready pay their respects to Antipater, in hopes of advantage;and it was the king's command whieh alienated every body[from the brethren], he having given this charge to his mostintimate friends, that they should not come near, nor pay anyregard to Alexander, or to his friends. Herod was also becometerrible, not only to his domestics about the court, but to hisfriends abroad; for Caesar had given such a privilege td no otherking as he had given to him, which was this, that he mightfetch back any one that fled from him, even out of a city thatwas not under his own jurisdiction. Now the young men were*'not acquainted with the calumnies raised against them ; fot1which reason they could not guard themselves against them, butfell under them; for their father did not make any publie com足plaints against either of them; though in a little time they per足ceived how things were by his coldness to them-, and by thegreat uneasiness he shewed upon any thing that troubled him.Antipater had also made their uncle Pheroras to be their enemy,as well as their aunt Salome, while he was always talking withher, as with a wife, and irritating her against them. Moreover,Alexander's wife, Glaphyra, augmented this hatred againstthem, by deriving her nobility and genealogy [from great per足sons], and pretending that she was a lady superior to all othersin that kingdom, as being derived by her father's side from S s 2 Temenus,