OCR Output CHAP. LI. 377 bio, ;b and the first arms of the Saracens were justified bythe semblance of a national right. The country was en­riched by the various benefits of trade; by the vigilanceof the emperors it was covered with a line of forts; andthe populous cities of Gerasa, Philadelphia, and Bosra,cwere secure, at least from a surprise, by the solid struc­ture of their walls. The last of these cities was the eigh­teenth station of Medina: the road was familiar to thecaravans of Hejaz and Irak, who annually visited thisplenteous market of the province and the desert: theperpetual jealousy of the Arabs had trained the inha­bitants to arms; and twelve thousand horse could sallyfrom the gates of Bosra, an appellation which signifies,in the Syriac language, a strong tower of defence. En­couraged by their first success against the open townsand flying parties of the borders, a detachment of fourthousand Moslems presumed to summon and attack thefortress of Bosra. They were oppressed by the numbersof the Syrians; they were saved by the presence of Caled,with fifteen hundred horse: he blamed the enterprise,restored the battle, and rescued his friend, the venerableSerjabil, who had vainly invoked the unity of God andthe promise of the apostle. After a short repose, theMoslems performed their ablutions with sand instead ofwater ;d and the morning prayer was recited by Caledbefore they mounted on horseback. Confident of theirstrength, the people of Bosra threw open their gates, 1 Hoic Arabia est conserta, ex alio latere Nabathaeis contigua; opima varietatecommeruorum, castrisque oppleta validis et castellis, quse ad repellendo* gentiumvicinarum excursus, solicitude per vigil neterum per opportunos saltus erexit etcautes. Ammian. Marcellin. it. 8. Reland. Palestin. torn. 1. p. 85, 86. 'With Gerasa and Philadelphia, Ammianus praises the fortifications of Bosrannnitate cautissimas. They deserved the same praise in the time of Abulfeda,(Tabul. Syria, p. 99.) who describes this city, the metropolis of Hawran (Aura-nitis) four days' journey from Damascus. The Hebrew etymology 1 learn fromReland. Palestin. torn. 2. p. 666. ii The apostle of a desert and an army was obliged to allow this ready succeda-neum for water ; (Koran, c. 3. p. 66. c. 5. p. 83.) but the Arabian and Persian ca-suists have embarrassed his free permission with many niceties and distinctions.(Reland. de Relig. Mohammed, lib. 1. p. 82, 83. Chardin, Voyages en Perse,torn. 4.)