OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 331 tacked the shepherd rather than his flock; and that chap.they curiously selected the most delicate and brawny XX"parts both of males and females, which they preparedfor their horrid repasts *. If, in the neighbourhoodof the commercial and literary town of Glasgow, arace of cannibals has really existed, we may contem­plate, in the period of the Scottish history, the oppo­site extremes of savage and civilized life. Every messenger who escaped across the British Restora-Channel conveyed the most melancholy and alarming Britain bytidings to the ears of Valentinian; and the emperor Theodo-was soon informed, that the two military commanders a. d. 367of the province had been surprised and cut off by the — 7°*Barbarians. Severus, count of the domestics, washastily despatched, and as suddenly recalled, by thecourt of Treves. The representations of Jovinusserved only to indicate the greatness of the evil; and,after a long and serious consultation, the defence, orrather the recovery, of Britain, was intrusted to theabilities of the brave Theodosius. The exploits ofthat general, the father of a line of emperors, havebeen celebrated, with peculiar complacency, by thewriters of the age: but his real merit deserved theirapplause; and his nomination was received, by thearmy and province, as a sure presage of approachingvictory. He seized the favourable moment of navi­gation, and securely landed the numerous and veteranbands of the Heruli and Batavians, the Jovians andthe Victors. In his march from Sandwich to Lon­don, Theodosius defeated several parties of the Bar­barians, released a multitude of captives, and, afterdistributing to his soldiers a small portion of thespoil, established the fame of disinterested justice, by * Cum ipse adolescentulus in Gallia viderim Attacottos (or Scotos"* gentem Bri-tannicam humanis vesci carnibus; et cum per silvas procorum greges, et armen-torum pecudumque reperiant, pastorum nates et feminarum papilla) solere ab-scindere ; ethas solas ciborum delicias arbitrari. Such is the evidence of Jeiom(torn. ii. p. 75)j whose veracity I find no reason to question.