OCR Output 476 DISSERTATION I. demned him to the cross, those that loved hiin at the firstdid not forsake him, for he appeared to them alive again thothird day, as the divine prophets had foretold these, and tenthousand other wonderful things concerning him. And stillthe tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not extinctat this day. Since, therefore, the writers of the Hebrews hadengraven this testimony concerning our Lord and Saviour inhis own books, what defence can there remain for the un­believers ? About A. D. 980. Suidas in voce Jesous.—We have foundJosephus, who hath written about the taking of Jerusalem(of whom Eusebius Pamphili makes frequent mention in hisecclesiastical history,) saying openly in his memoirs of thecaptivity, that Jesus officiated in the temple with the priests.This we have found Josephus saying, a man of ancient times,and not very long after the apostles, &c. About A. D. 1000. Cedrenus Compend. IIhtor. p. 196.—Josephus does indeed write concerning John the Baptist asfollows : —Some of the Jews thought that the destruction ofHerod's army came from God, and that he was punishedvery justly for what punishment ho had inflicted on John,that was called the Baptist; for llerod slew him, who was agood man, and commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, bothby righteousness towards one another, and piety towardsGod, and so to come to baptism. But as concerning Christ,the same Josephus says, that about that time there was Jesus,a wise man, if it be lawful to call him a man, for he was adoer of wonderful works, and a teacher of such men as re­ceive the truth with pleasure, for that Christ drew over manyeven from the Gentiles; whom when Herod had crucified,those who at first had loved him did not leave off to preachconcerning him, for he appeared to them the third day aliveagain, as the divine prophets had testified, and spoken theseand other wonderful things concerning him. About A.D. 1080. Tkeophylact. in Joan. lib. xiii.—Thecity of the Jews was taken, and the wrath of God was kin­dled against them; as also Josephus witnesses, that this cameupon them on account of the death of Jesus.