OCR Output Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 437 him till the Teutones were defeated. The leaders of thedifferent parties in the civil war, Marius, Octavius, Sulla,coincided in believing omens and oracles. During its courseeven the senate was under the necessity, in the troubles of667, of consenting to issue directions in accordance withthe fancies of a crazy prophetess. It is significant of theossification of the Romano-Hellenic religion as well as ofthe increasing craving of the multitude after stronger reli­gious stimulants, that superstition no longer, as in theBacchic mysteries, associates itself with the national religion;even the Etruscan mysticism is already left behind; theworships matured in the sultry regions of the East appearthroughout in the foremost rank. The copious introductionof elements from Asia Minor and Syria into the populationpartly by the importation of slaves, partly by the augmentedtraffic of Italy with the East, contributed very greatly tothis result. The power of these foreign religions is verydistinctly apparent in the revolts of the Sicilian slaves, whofor the most part were natives of Syria. Eunus vomitedfire, Athenion read the stars; the plummets thrown by theslaves in these wars bear in great part the names of gods,those of Zeus and Artemis, and especially that of the myste­rious Mother who had migrated from Crete to Sicily and waszealously worshipped there. A similar effect was producedby commercial intercourse, particularly after the wares ofBerytus and Alexandria were conveyed directly to theItalian ports; Ostia and Puteoli became the great martsnot only for Syrian unguents and Egyptian linen, but alsofor the faith of the East. Everywhere the mingling 'of reli­gions was constantly on the increase along with the minglingof nations. Of all allowed worships the most popular wasthat of the Pessinuntine Mother of the Gods, which made adeep impression on the multitude by its eunuch-celibacy,its banquets, its music, its begging processions, and all itssensuous pomp; the collections from house to house werealready felt as an economic burden. In the most dangeroustime of the Citnbrian war Battaces the high-priest of Pessi-nus appeared in person at Rome, in order to defend theinterests of the temple of his goddess there which was allegedto have been profaned, addressed the Soman people by thespecial orders of the Mother of the Gods, and performedalso various miracles. Men of sense were scandalized, butthe women and the great multitude were not to be debarred 87.