OCR Output AN. 31.] 545 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. vantage to be expected from such an under­taking, if any such could be supposed in thiscase, it would appear to deserve condemna­tion, on account of the insolence he must takeupon him in doing it. These considerationsmade it very plain, that in so doing he wouldfind his government filled with mischiefs, bothgreat and lasting, both to himself and his pos­terity: whereas it was still in his power to re­ject that wickedness she would persuade himto, and to come off honourably at the sametime. So by thus representing to Herod thehazard he must, in all probability, run by thisundertaking, they restrained him from it. Hetherefore treated Cleopatra kindly, and madeher presents, and conducted her on her wayto Egypt. But Antony subdued Armenia, and sentArtabazes, the son of Tigranes, in bonds, withhis children, and procurators, to Egypt; andmade a present of them, and of all the royalornaments which he had taken out of thatkingdom, to Cleopatra. And Artaxias theeldest of his sons, who had escaped at thattime, took the kingdom of Armenia. Hewas, indeed, ejected by Archelaus, and NeroCaesar, when they restored Tigranes hisyounger brother to that kingdom: but thishappened a considerable time afterward. But as to the tributes which Herod was toay Cleopatra for that country which Antonyad given her, he acted fairly with her, asdeeming it not safe for him to afford anycause for Cleopatra to hate him. As for theking of Arabia, whose tribute Herod had un­dertaken to pay her; for some time indeedhe paid him as much as came to two hundredtalents. But he afterward became very slowin his payments; and could hardly be broughtto pay some parts of it; and was not willingto pay even them without some deductions. CHAP. V. HEROD MAKES WAR WITH THE KING OF ARABIA, AND AFTERSEVERAL ENGAGEMENTS, SUBDUES HIM; AND IS CHOSEN BY THE ARABS TO BE GOVERNOR OF THAT NATION. ALSO, CONCERNING A GREAT EARTHQUAKE. HEREUPON Herod held himself readyto go against the king of Arabia; be­cause of his ingratitude; and because, afterall, he would do nothing that was just to him.Although Herod made the Roman war an oc- E casion of delaying his own. For the battleat Actium was now expected; which hap­pened in the second year of the hundred andeighty and seventh Olympiad: where Caesarand Antony were to fight for the supremepower of the world. But Herod having en­joyed a country that was very fruitful, andthat now for a long time; and having receivedgreat taxes, and raised great armies there­with; got together a body of men, and care­fully furnished them with all necessaries, anddesigned them as auxiliaries for Antony. ButAntony said he had no want of his assistance.But he commanded him to punish the king ofArabia; for he had heard, both from him,and from Cleopatra, how perfidious he was:for Cleopatra thought it for her own advan­tage, that these two kings should do oneanother as great mischief as possible. Uponthis message from Antony, Herod returnedback; but kept his army with him, in orderto invade Arabia. So when his army of horse­men and footmen was ready, he marched toDiospolis. Thither the Arabians came alsoto meet them; for they were not unapprisedof this war that was coming upon them. Andafter a great battle had been fought, the Jewshad the victory. But afterward there weregotten together another numerous army ofthe Arabians, at Cana, a place of Coelesyria.Herod was informed of this beforehand: sohe came against them, with the greatest partof his forces. And when he was come nearto Cana, he resolved to encamp himself, andhe cast up a bulwark; that he might take aproper season for attacking the enemy. Butas he was giving those orders, the multitudeof the Jews cried out, that he should makeno delay, but lead them against the Arabians.On this occasion they were in high spirits, asbelieving they were in very good order; andthose especially were so that had been in theformer battle, and had been conquerors; andhad not permitted their enemies so much asto come to a close fight with them. Andwhen they were so tumultuous, and shewedsuch great alacrity, the king resolved to makeuse of that zeal the multitude then exhibited.And when he had assured them he would not ibe behindhand with them in courage, he ledthem on, and stood before them in his ar­mour: all the regiments following him intheir several ranks. Hereupon a consterna-