OCR Output CHAP. "XLVII. 13 most fearful of separating, the divinity and the huma­nity of Christ. Impelled by religious frenzy, they fledwith adverse haste from the error which they mutuallydeemed most destructive of truth and salvation. Oneither hand they were anxious to guard, they were jea­lous to defend, the union and the distinction of the twonatures, and to invent such forms of speech, suchsymbols of doctrine, as were least susceptible of doubtor ambiguity. The poverty of ideas and languagetempted them to ransack art and jiature for every possi­ble comparison, and each comparison misled theirfancy in the explanation of an incomparable mystery.In the polemic microscope, an atom is enlarged to amonster, and each party was skilful to exaggerate theabsurd or impious conclusions that might be extortedfrom the principles of their adversaries. To escapefrom each other, they wandered through many a darkand devious thicket, till they were astonished by thehorrid phantoms of Cerinthus and Apollinaris, whoguarded the opposite issues of the theological labyrinth.As soon as they beheld the twilight of sense and he­resy, they started, measured back their steps, and wereagain involved in the gloom of impenetrable ortho­doxy. To purge themselves from the guilt or reproachof damnable error, they disavowed their consequences,explained their principles, excused their indiscretions,and unanimously pronounced the sounds of concordand faith. Yet a latent and almost invisible spark stilllurked among the embers of controversy: by the breathof prejudice and passion it was quickly kindled to amighty flame, and the verbal disputes' of the orientalsects have shaken the pillars of the church and state. 'I appeal to the confession of two oriental prelates, Gregory Abnlpharagius theJacobite primate of the east, and Elias the Nestorian metropolitan of Damascus,(see Asseman. Bibliothec. Oriental, torn. 2. p. 291. torn. 3. p. 514, &c.) that theMelchites, Jacobites, Nestorians, &c. agree in the doctrine, and differ only in theexpression. Our most learned and rational divines—Basnage, Le Clerc, Beau-sobre, La Croze, Mosheim, Jablonski—are inclined to favour this charitable judg­ment; but the zeal of Petavius is loud and angry, and the moderation of Dupin isconveyed in a whisper.