OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401 of the possibility of vanquishing their invincible ene- chap.mies. The detachments of these separate garrisons XXI'were gradually united into small armies; the samecautious measures were pursued, according to an ex­tensive and well-concerted plan of operations; theevents of each day added strength and spirit to theRoman arms; and the artful diligence of the empe­ror, who circulated the most favourable reports of thesuccess of the war, contributed to subdue the pride ofthe Barbarians, and to animate the hopes and courageof his subjects. If, instead of this faint and imper­fect outline, we could accurately represent the coun­sels and actions of Theodosius, in four successive cam­paigns, there is reason to believe* that his consummateskill would deserve the applause of every militaryreader. The republic had formerly been saved bythe delays of Fabius: and, while the splendid tro­phies of Scipio, in the field of Zama, attract the eyesof posterity, the camps and marches of the dictatoramong the hills of Campania may claim a juster pro­portion of the solid and independent fame, which thegeneral is not compelled to share, either with fortuneor with his troops. Such was likewise the merit ofTheodosius; and the infirmities of his body, whichmost unseasonably languished under a long and dan­gerous disease, could not oppress the vigour of hismind; or divert his attention from the public service. The deliverance and peace of the Roman pro- Divisions, ,vinces* was the work of prudence, rather than of^6*^^valour: the prudence of Theodosius was seconded oftheGoth?, A.D. 37j by fortune; and the emperor never failed to seize, 382.'and to improve, every favourable circumstance. Aslong as the superior genius of Fritigern preserved theunion, and directed the motions of the Barbarians, * Compare Themistius (Orat. 14. p. 181), with Zosimus (1. iv. p. 232), Jor-nandes (c. xxvii. p. 649), and the prolix Commentary of M. de Buat (Hist. desPeuples, &c. torn. vi. p. 477—552). VOL. II. D D