OCR Output SOf> ROMA. ROMA. as its snccesso:*. the downs auren, seems to haveoccupied as large an extent of ground, and t*« havereached from the Palatine to tlic gardens i>t Maecenasand tlie agger of Servius on the Esquiline. (Suet.Aero, 31; Tac. Attn. xv. 39.) The Aubba Domtjswas a .specimen of insane extravagance. Its atriumor vestibule was placed on the Velia, on the spotwhere the temple of Venus and Hume after­wards itood, and in it rose the colossal Statueof Nero, 1*20 feet high, the base of which isstill visible at the NW. side of the Colosseum. Wemay train an idea of the vastMSl of this residenceby coTii|>ariitg the prose description of Suetonius withthe poetical one of Martial, when we shall see thatthe latter has not a!>u>ed the privilege of his calling.(Suet. iVero, 31; Mart, dt .Syx.c/. 2). It was neverperfectly finished, and Vespasian, as we have laid,restored the ground to the public. AVc know butlittle of the arrangement of the buildings on the1'alatine itself under Nero, except that the differentparts appear to have retained their former names.Dninitian added much to the palace, now againconfined to this hill, and fitted it up in a style ofextraordinary magnificence; but, though we fre­quently hear of single parts, such its baths, diaetae,a portico called SivUia, a dining-room dignified withthe appellation of Coeuudo JovU, &c, yet wc arenowhere presented with a clear idea of it as awhole (cf. Pint PopL 15; Plin, xxxv. 5. s. 38;Capit. Pert. 11: Mart. viii. 3G; Stat. Silt: iii. 4. 47,iv. 2. 18, Sic.) The anxiety and terror of the tyrantare strikingly depicted in the anecdote told bySuetonius (Ihnn. 14). that he caused the walls of theportico in which he was accustomed to walk to becovered with the stone, or crystallised gypsum, calledpfii-ti'/iir.i, in order that he might be able to seewhat was going on behind his back. It is uncertainwhere the ADOKAEA, or gardens of Adonis, lay, inwhich Domitian received Apollouius of Tyana, andwhich are marked on a fragment of the Capitohneplan (fieUori, tab. xi.) Of the history of the palacehttle more is known. Several accounts mention thedotnufl aurca as having been burnt down in the reignof Trajan (Oros. vii. 12; Hieron. an. 105, p. 447.Hone.), and the palace which succeeded it appearsto have been also destroyed by fire in the reignof Cuinmodus (Dion Cass, lxxii. 24; Herodian, i.14.) At the southern extremity of tlie Palatine, Septi-mius Severn* built the Septikohium, considerableremains of' which existed till near the end of the TIIK BtWlZOMUSC. 16th century, when Papa Sx^us V. causedtat flaeto be carried oft' to the Vatican. &yc*unW*m4the ruins will be found in I>u Pent (tav. 1J)«IGamucci (Antichitii d» AV«wi. p. 83, SprWiw—ifttffH&qmtiwB, t. 45). The name d tb* bs^te%which, however, is very variously writtea ■ IMSS. of different authors, is hy some suypeaihave l>een derived from its form, by otherscircumstance of seven roods meeting at tha a*It seems not improbable that a similar pbetbefore the time of Severus, since Suetouiosthat Titus was born near the hftfMfep (tthough topographers, but without anygrounds, have assigned this to the 3rdhas been inferred from the name that U#had seven rows of columns, ooe abovethis notion seems to be without foandatkn. Iruins never exhibited traces of more thaatkwThe tomb of Severus must not be confounded Iwhich, as we learn from Spartianua, taatlAppia, and built so as to resemble Um SejThe same author informs us (Ser. 24) hVtfof Severus was to make the Septizonium aothe palace, so that it should be the firststrike the eyes of those coming from Ain**£native country. But the true nature aod dc*of the building remain enigmatical. We know of no other attentions in theexcept some slight ones under thebjtlus and Alexander Severus. Thecrated there the Templk op HeiJogabltjHeitoff. 3; Herodian, v. 5), and opened a palso destined apparently as a place of Ii(Lampr. Ib. 8). Of the buildmp ofSeverus we hear only of a diaeta. erectedof his mother Julia Mainmaea, and11 ad Maminam " (Id. .4/. Srv. 26).were small isolated buildinc*, coiainaalyand somewhat resembled a modemor pavilion (Plin. Ep. ii. 17, v. 6).related of both these emperors that theystreets of the Palatine to be rawed withand rerde antico (Lampr. HtL 24.The Palatium was probably inhabited hyduring his short reign, after which »more of it. That emperor is said to hibaths tliere. (Catid. Imp. YicmL. t-Rone.) The Victoria Gkrmaxiciasa, therecorded in the Suttiia between thethe Lupercal, and which must tiierelthe side next the circus, was pniahWnumerous monuments erected either iliermanicus of which Tacitus speaks (or else to Caracalla, who likewise bnrcGermanicus (Preller, Regitmrn, p. 137 We have already treated pene-raJlv rf tSacra Via, and of some of the principalnected with them, as well as of the XovaYiPalatine. The Nova Via was not a ver]road, and we have little more to addIt seems to have bepin at the Purta Malike the Sacra Via, at the same spot,Siimma Nova Via (Soliu. i- I). Franran almost parallel with the Sacra Yait and the hill, as far as its northernturned to theS., and etill continued tibase of the Palatine as far at lea*I!»>nianul* (near & Giorgio imindeed, carry it on aa tar as tne(Cauiua, Imlic, Top. p. 331); a