OCR Output 352 ANTIQUITIES OF THE IEWS. Book XV. over the Idumeans, and somewhat more also; for he raised hishopes still higher, as having no small pretences, both by hisbirth and by these riches, which he had gotten by his constantattention to filthy lucre; and accordingly it was not a smallmatter that he aimed at. So Cleopatra desired this country ofAntony, but failed of her purpose. An account of this wasbrought to Herod, who was thereupon ready to kill Costobarus,yet upon the entreaties of his sister and mother, he forgave him,and vouchsafed to pardon him entirely, though he still had a sus­picion of him afterward for this his attempt. 10. But some time afterward, when Salome happened to quar­rel with Costobarus, she * sent him & bill of divorce, and dis=j.solved her marriage with him, though this was not according tothe Jewish laws; for with us it is lawful for a husband to doso; but a wife, if she departs from her husband, cannot of her­self be married to another, unless her former husband put heraway. However, Salome chose to follow not the law of herCountry, but the law of her authority, and so renounced herwedlock: and told her brother Herod, that she left her husbandAut of her good-will to him, because she perceired that he, with>wintipater and Lysimachus, and Dositheus, were raising a sedi-e- tion against him: as an evidence whereof, she alleged the caseof the sons of Babas, that they had been by him preserved alivealready for the interval of twelve years; which proved to betrue. But when Herod thus unexpectedly heard of it, he wasgreatly surprised at it, and was the more surprised, because therelation appeared incredible to him. As for the fact relating tothese sons of Babas, Herod had formerly taken great pains tobring them to punishment, as being enemies to his government,but they were now forgotten by him, on account of the length oftime [since he had ordered them to be slain.] Now, the causeof his ill-will and haired to them arose hence, that while Anti-gonus was king, Herod with his army, besieged the city of Je- * Here is a plain example of a Jewibh lady giving a bill of divorce lo her hus-hand, though in the days of Josephus it was not esteemed lawful for a woman so tod<>. See the like among the Parthians, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. ix. sect. 6. However,the Christian law, when it allowed divorce for adultery, Matt. v. 32. allowed theinnocent wife to divorce her guilty husband, as well as the innocent husband to di­vorce his guilty wit'i-, as we learn from the shepherd of Hermes, Aland. B. IV. andfjom the second apology of Justin Martyr, where a persecution was brought uponthe Christians upon such a divorce; and I think the Roman laws permitted it atthat time, as well as the laws of Christianity. Now this Bal-as, who was one of therace of the Asamoncans or Maccabees, as the latter end of this section informs us, isrelated by ihe Jews, as Dr. Hudson here remarks, to have been «o eminently religiousin the Jewish way, that the day following th« tenth of Tisri, the great day ofatonement, when he seems to hare supposed all his sins entirely forgiven, he usedevery day of the whole year to oiler a sacrifice for his sins of ignorance, or such ashe supposed he had been guilty of, but did not distinctly rcmcmler. See somewhatlike it of Agrippathc Great, Aniiq. B. XIX. ch. iii. sect. 3. vol. III. and Job. i. 4, S.