OCR Output 204 [book ti. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. brook, and had put into his shepherd's bag,and fitted it to his sling, he slang it againstthe Philistine. The stone fell upon his fore­head, and sank into his brain, insomuch thatGoliath was stunned, and fell upon his face.So David ran, and stood upon his adversaryas he lay down, and cut off his head with hisown sword; for he had no sword himself.And upon the fall of Goliath, the Philistineswere beaten, and fled; for when they sawtheir champion prostrate on the ground, theywere afraid of the issue of their affairs, andresolved not to stay any longer; but com­mitted themselves to an ignominious and in­decent flight; and thereby endeavoured tosave themselves from the danger they werein. But Saul, and the entire army of the He­brews, made a shout and rushed upon themand slew a great number of them; and pur­sued the rest to the borders of Gath, and tothe gates of Ekron.* So that there were slainof the Philistines thirty thousand; and twiceas many wounded. Saul then returned totheir camp, and pulled their fortification to Eieces, and burnt it. But David carried theead of Goliath into his own tent, and dedi­cated his sword to God at the tabernacle.f CHAP. X. of saul's envv at david's brilliant success, and ofthe marriage of that conqueror with the king'sdaughter. NOW the women were an occasion ofSaul's envy and hatred to David. Forthey came to meet their victorious army withcymbals and drums, and all demonstrationsof joy, and sang thus: the wives said, "Saulhath slain his many thousands of the Philis- tines." The virgins replied, "David hathslain his ten thousands.":}: Now when theking heard them singing thus, and that tiehad himself the smallest share in their com­mendations; and that the greater number, theten thousands, were ascribed to the youngman; and when he considered there wasnothing more wanting to David, after suchapplause, but the kingdom; he began to beafraid, and suspicious of David. Accordinglyhe removed him from the station he was inbefore; for he was his armour-bearer, whichout of fear seemed to him much too near astation for him; and so he made him captainover a thousand, and bestowed on him a post,better indeed in itself, but, as he thought,more for his own security. For he had a mindto send him against the enemy, and into battle;as hoping he would be slain in such danger­ous conflicts. But David had God going along with himwhithersoever he went; and accordingly hegreatly prospered in his undertakings, and itwas visible that he had mighty successes;insomuch that Saul's daughter, who was stilla virgin, fell in love with him, and her affec­tion so far prevailed over her, that it couldnot be concealed; and her father becameacquainted with it. Now Saul heard thisgladly;|| as intending to make use of it for asnare against David; and he hoped that itwould prove the cause of destruction and ofhazards to him. So he told those that in­formed him of his daughter's affection, that hewould willingly give David the virgin in mar­riage, and said, "I engage myself to marrymy daughter to him, if he will bring me sixhundred heads of my enemies."§ Supposingthat when a reward so ample was proposed i 1 Sam. xviii. 7. to the art from their infancy, by slinging from a great dis­tance at a circular mark of a moderate circumference. Bylong practice they took so nice an aim, that they were sureto hit their enemies not only on the head, but on any partof the face they chose. Their slings were of a differentkind from the Balearians, whom they far surpassed in dex­terity." Polyb, p. 125. B. * 1 Sam. xvii. 52. t Niebuhr presents us with a very similar scene in hisDescript. de l'Arabie, p. 263; where a son of an Arabchief kills his father's enemy and rival, and, according tothe custom of the Arabs, cuts off his head, and carries itin triumph to his father. In a note he adds, " cutting off thehead of a slain enemy, and carrying it in triumph, is an an­cient custom." Xenophon remarks that it was practised bytheChalybes, (Retreat of the ten thousand, lib. iv.) Hero­dotus attributes it to the Scythians, lib. iv. cap. 60. B. 1 Sam. xviii. 20.§ Josephus says thrice in this chapter, and twice after­wards, chap. 11. and Book VII. chap. 1. i. e. five times inall, that Saul required not a bare hundred of the foreskinsof the Philistines, but six hundred of their heads. TheSeptuagint has one hundred foreskins; but the Syriacand Arabic two hundred. Now that these were not fore­skins, with other copies, but heads with Josephus's copy,seems somewhat probable from 1 Sam. xxix. 4. where allcopies say, that it was with the heads of such Philistinesthat David might reconcile himself to his master Saul.And if Josephus's copy be right there, against all the rest;I should also prefer it before the rest here, especially asso often repeated in the number; six hundred instead ofone hundred in the Septuagint, or two hundred in thfeSvrinc and Arabic.