OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVIII. 147 chief pontiff. We are told that this election was at­tended by a greater concourse of people than anyduring that war. They had come together from allparts, not only for the purpose of giving their votes,but of getting a sight of Scipio; and ran in crowds,both to his house and to the capitol, while he was per­forming sacrifice, by offering to Jupiter a hundredoxen, which he had vowed on occasion of the mutinyof the soldiers in Spain. Strong expectations were atthe same time entertained, that as Cains Lutatius hadfinished the former Punic war, so Publius CorneliusScipio would finish the present; and that, as he hadalready expelled the Carthaginians from every part ofSpain, he would in like manner expel them from Italy.They therefore destined Africa to him as a province,as if the war in Italy were at an end. The election ofthe pretors was then held: two were appointed, whowere at the time plebeian ediles, Spurius Lucretiusand Cneius Octavius; and, of private rank, CneiusServilius Caepio and Lucius jEmilius Papus. In thefourteenth year of the Punic war, as soon as PubliusCornelius Scipio and Publius Licinius Crassus enteredon the consulship, the provinces for the consuls werenamed; for Scipio, Sicily, without drawing lots, withthe consent of his colleague, because the necessaryattendance on religious matters required the presenceof the chief pontiff in Italy; for Crassus, Bruttium.The provinces of the pretors were then disposed of bylot; that of the city fell to Cneius Servilius; Arimi-num (so they called Gaul) to Spurius Lucretius; Si­cily to Lucius iEmilius; and Sardinia to Cneius Octa­vius. The senate was held in the capitol; there, onthe matter being proposed by Publius Scipio, a decreewas made, that the games which he had vowed duringthe mutiny of the soldiers in Spain should be exhibited,and the expense defrayed out of the money which him­self had conveyed to the treasury. 39. He then introduced to the senate ambassadorsfrom Saguntum, the eldest of whom addressed them inthis manner: 'Conscript fathers, although there is no