OCR Output -** THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. preserve the conquered places of Assyria, a desolated'province could not afford any large or regular supplies,in a season of the year when the lands were coveredby the inundation of the Euphrates *, and the un­wholesome air was darkened with swarms of in­numerable insects t. The appearance of the hostilecountry was far more inviting. The extensive regionthat lies between the river Tigris and the mountainsof Media was filled with villages and towns; andthe fertile soil, for the most part, was in a veryimproved state of cultivation. Julian might expectthat a conqueror, who possessed the two forcible in­struments of persuasion, steel and gold, would easilyprocure a plentiful subsistence from the fears oravarice of the natives. But on the approach of theRomans, this rich and smiling prospect was instantlyblasted. Wherever they moved, the inhabitantsdeserted the open villages, and took shelter in thefortified towns; the cattle was driven away; thegrass and ripe corn were consumed with fire; and assoon as the flames had subsided which interrupted themarch of Julian, he beheld the melancholy face of asmoking and naked desert. This desperate but ef­fectual method of defence can only be executed by theenthusiasm of a people who prefer their independenceto their property; or by the rigour of an arbitrarygovernment, which consults the public safety withoutsubmitting to their inclinations the liberty of choice.On the present occasion, the zeal and obedience ofthe Persians seconded the commands of Sapor; and * The Tigris rises to the south, the Euphrates to the north, of the Armenianmountains. The former overflows in March, the latter in July. These circum­stances are well explained in the Geographical Dissertation of Foster, inserted inSpelman's Expedition of Cyrus, vol. ii. p. 26. f Ammianus (xxiv. 8), describes, as he had felt, the inconveniency of theflood, the heat, and the insects. The lands of Assyria, oppressed by the Turks,and ravished by the Curds, or Arabs, yield an increase of ten, fifteen, and twentyfold, for the seed which is cast into the ground by the wretched and unskilfulhusbandman. Voyages de Niebuhr, torn. ii. p. 279,285.