OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 191 athan said, that he was ready to die for them, and was indeedesteemed no way inferior to his brother, he was appointed to bethe general of the Jewish army. 2. When Bacchides heard this, he was afraid that Jonathanmight be very troublesome to the king and the Macedonians, asJudas had been before him, he sought how he might slay him bytreachery: But this invention of his was not unknown to Jona­than, nor to his brother Simon: but when these two were ap­prized of it, they took all their companions, and presently fledinto that wilderness which was nearest to the city; and whenthey were come to a lake called Asphar, they abode there. Butwhen Bacchides was sensible that they were in a low state, andwere in that place, he hasted to fall upon them with all his for­ces, and pitching his camp beyond Jordan, he recruited his ar­my: But when Jonathan knew that Bacchides was coming uponhim, he sent his brother John, who was also called Gaddis, tothe Nabatean Arabs, that he might lodge his baggage with themuntil the battle with Bacchides should be over, for they werethe Jews' friends. And the sons of Ambri laid an ambush forJohn from the city Medaba, and seized upon him, and uponthose that were with him, and plundered all that they had withthem : They also slew John, and all his companions. However,they were sufficiently punished for what they now did by John'sbrethren, as we shall relate presently. 3. But when Bacchides knew that Jonathan had pitched hiscamp among the lakes of Jordan, he observed when their Sab­bath day came, and then assaulted him as supposing that hewould not fight because of the law [for resting on that day:]but he exhorted his companions [to fight;] and told them thattheir lives were at stake, since they were encompassed by theriver, and by their enemies, and had no way to escape, for thattheir enemies pressed upon them before, and the river was behindthem. So after he had prayed to God to give them the victory,he joined battle with the enemy, of whom he overthrew many;and as he saw Bacchides coming up boldly to him, he stretchedout his right hand to smite him, but the other foreseeing andavoiding the stroke, Jonathan with his companions leaped intothe river, and swam over it, and by that means escaped beyondJordan, while the enemy did not pass over that river: but Bac­chides returned presently to the citadel at Jerusalem, having lostabout two thousand of his army. He also fortified many citiesof Judea, whose walls had been demolished, Jericho, and Em-maus, and Bethoron, and Bethel, and Tirana, and Pharatho,and Tekoa, and Gazara, and built towers in every one of thesecities, and encompassed them with strong walls, that were verylarge also, and put garrisons into them, that they might issue