OCR Output inoo SILACENAE. STLACE'NAE, a place in Lower Pannonia, onthe south of Lake Peiao. (/(. Ant. p. 233, whereit appears in the ablat. form Silacenis). lis exactsite is unknown. [L. S.] SlLANA, a town in the NW. of Thessaly, nearthe frontiers of Athamania, mentioned along withGompbj and Trice* bj Livy, Leake conjecturesthat it occupied the site of Poluinn, near which areseveral squared blocks of ancient workmanship.(Li v. xxxvi. 13; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv.p. 5*29.) SI'LARUS(XiKapoi, Vtol-^tKaph, Strab.:&2e)fa considerable river of Southern Italy, flowing intothe gulf of Posidonia, and forming the boundarybetween Campania and Lucania. It rises in themountains near Teora, on the confines of the Hir-pini, ami not far from the sources of the Aufidus;thence flows for some distance in a southerly directiontill it receives the waters of the Tanager (Tanagro),ii considerable stream, which joins it from the SE.;it then turns to the SW. and pursues that directionto the sea, winch it enters about 5 miles to the N.of the city of Paestutn. About 5 miles from itsmouth it receives another important tributary in theCalor (Colore), which joins it from the S. Betweenthe Calor and Tanager, on the S. bank of the Silarnsrises the mountain group of Mount Alburuus, men­tioned by Virgil in connection with that river. The luci Silari" of the same author are evidently thesame with the extensive woods which still clothe thevalley of the IStle from its confluence with theTanagro to within a few miles of the sea. (Virg.Georg. iii. 146.) The Silarns was in the days ofStrabo and Pliny the recognised boundary betweenCampania (including under that name the land ofthe Picentini) and Lucania; but this applies only toits course near its mouth, as Eburi (Eboli), thoughsituated to the N. of it, is included by Pliny amongthe towns of Lucania. (Strab. v. p. 251, vi. p. 252;Plin. iii. 5. ss. 9, 10, 11.s. 15; Ptol. iii. 1. § 8; Wei.ii. 4. §9; Tub. Tent..; Dionys. Per. 361.) A pecu­liarity of its wuters, mentioned by several ancientwriters, is that they had the power of petrifyingsticks, leaves, anil other substances immersed inthem. (Strab. v. p. 251; Plin, ii. 103. s. 106; Sil.Ital. viiL 582.) The name is written by Lncrm and ColumellaSiler, and the same form is found in Vibius Sequester,indicating an approach to the modern name of Stle.(Luean, ii. 426 ; Colum. x. 136; Vib. Seq. p.18.) [K.H.B.] SILAS (SiM'/s, Arrian, Ind, c. 6; Strab. xv. p.703; Diod. ii. 37), a river of the Upper Punjab,the story of which, as told by ancient writers, isclearly fabulous. According to Arrian and others,the water of this river was so light that nothingcould swim in it. Lassen, who has examined thisstory witli his usual acutcness, has shown from theMiihabhi'trntn that there was a stream in the nor­thern part of India called the SUa, the water ofwhich was endowed with a highly pctrifving power,from which circumstance the river obtained its sig­nification, Situ meaning in Sanscrit a stone.(Zttochr. f. /funds des Morgenlands, ii. p. 63.)It may be remarked that the name occurs differentlywritten. Thus Diodorus writes XiWav iroTafidv;Antigonus Xt\av Kp-n^qr. {Mirab. c. 161.) Plinyevidently refers to the same story, but tails the riverSide in his quotation from Ctesias (xxxi. 2.B. 18). ry.] Sl'LBlUM (Ti\Giov. Eth. Silbianu-), a small town of Phryeia, on Celaenae, and beyond(Ptol. v. 2. § 25; Pliwriters it is sometimforms of its name, sncSnblas (Cinnamus, vi.(Oriens Christ, p. 81the see of a bishop,Apamea. Modern trneighbourhood of SwFunf Inschriften, p. SILI orSlMl (2iA<a tribe of Aethiopisnoryx, a species of gaaconsidered them to b2i/iot of Agatharchu! 8. ) SIUCEN'SE ELIBaetioa, in the neiglibthe Gtiathjoz, or 01B. A. 57.) SIL1NDIUM (2iAat the foot of M-junSlephanus B. (*. r.) oof Scepsis. SIHNGAE (2iXrthe south of the Seslopes of Mons Asci(PU0.iL 11. § 18.)this name is the oneor Sclilesien is fortp. 138; I'alackv,p. 68.) SILIS (Self). .1 «N. of Italy, which i7'rerwo (Tarrisium),Altiuum (Alt'mo). lliii. 18. s. 22.) SILLA(2iA\o,Isica river of Apolloniatiaccording to Isidorus,town of Arlemita. [Adoubt that this is th<It is also, in all prokaby Steph. B. (». r. 'Aimagines that the Ditlie Donu of ZusimuPtolemy (iv. 1. § 7),however, more likelyis the same as thattus. SILO or SIIILOHtown of Palestine, inmountain region acccwhere the ark and theby Joshua on the settof Israel. There alsconvocations for the diaction of other publi<Union. (Joshim, xvi 9. ) There Samuelthe days of Eli theThere was the seat oldisastrous battle of Idecline of Shiloh niu;desolation became pilxxviii. 60 ; Jeremicsituation is very partof Judges (xsi. 19), aon the east side of thiBethel to Shechcm, a: