OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. sole evidence of their faith. The natural suspicions of the husband, conscious ofhis own chastity, were dispelled by the assurance fin a dream) that his wife waspregnant of the Holy Ghost; and as this distant and domestic prodigy could not fallunder the personal observation of the historian, he must have listened to the samevoice which dictated to Isaiah, the future conception of a virgin. The son of a,virgin, generated by the ineffable operation of the Holy Spint, was a creaturewithout example or resemblance, superior in every attribute of mind and body tothe children of Adam. Since the introduction of the Greek or Chaldean philo­sophy^ 1) the Jews(2) were persuaded of the pre-existence, transmigration, andimmortality of souls; and Providence was justified by a supposition, that they wereconfined in their earthly prisons to expiate the stains which they had contracted in aformer state. (3) But the degrees of purity and corruption are almost immeasura­ble. It may be fairly presumed, that the most sublime and virtuous of human spi­rits was infused into the offspring of Mary and the Holy Ghost;(4) that his abase­ment was the result of his voluntary choice; and that the object of his mission wasto purify, not his own, but the sins of the world. On his return to his native skies,he received the immense reward of his obedience; the everlasting kingdom of theMessiah, which had been darkly foretold by the prophets, under the carnalimages of peace, of conquest, and of dominion. Omnipotence could enlarge thehuman faculties of Christ to the extent of his celestial office. In the language ofantiquity, the title of God has not been severely confined to the first parent, andhis incomparable minister, his only-begotten Son, might claim without presump­tion the religious, though secondary, worship of a subject world. II. The seeds of the faith, which had slowly arisen in the rocky and ungratefulsoil of Judea, were transplanted, in full maturity, to the happier climes of theGentiles; and the strangers of Rome or Asia, who never beheld the manhood,were the more readily disposed to embrace the divinity of Christ The Polythe-ist and the philosopher, the Greek and the barbarian, were alike accustomed toconceive a long succession, an infinite chain of angels or demons, or deities, orsons, or emanations, issuing from the throne of light. Nor could it seem strangeor incredible, that the first of these asons, the Logos, or Word*of God, of thesame substance with the Father, should descend upon earth to deliver the humanrace from vice and error, and to conduct them in the paths of life and immortality.But the prevailing doctrine of the eternity and inherent pravity of matter infectedthe primitive churches of the east. Many among the Gentile proselytes refusedto believe that a celestial spirit, an undivided portion of the first essence, had beenpersonally united with a mass of impure and contaminated flesh: and, in their zealfor the divinity, they piously abjured the humanity of Christ. While his blood wasstill recent on mount Calvary,(5) the Docetes, a numerous and learned sect of Asi­atics, invented the fantastic system, which was afterwards propagated by the Mar-cionites, the Manichaians, and the various names of the Gnostic heresy. (6) They de­nied the truth and authenticity of the gospels, as far as they relate the conception of protectant critics. But this Hebrew Gospel of St. Matthew ii most unaccountably lost; and we may accusethe diligence or fidelity of the primitive charehes, who have preferred the unauthorized version of somenameless Greek. Erasmus and his followers, who respect our Greek text as the original gospel, deprivethemselves of the evidence whiclt declares it to be the work of an apostle. See Simon, Hist. Critique, See.torn. iii. c. 5—9. p. 47—101. and the Prolegomena of Mill and Wetstein to the New Testament. (J) The metaphysics of the soul are disengaged by Cicero (Tuscalan. lib. 1.) and Maximus of Tyre (Disser-tat* xvi.,) from the intricacies of Dialogue, which sometimes amuse, and often perplex the readers of the Phse-drus, the Phsedon, and the Laws of Plato. (2) The disciples of Jesus were persuaded that a man might have sinned before lie was born (John, ix. 2.,)and the pharisees held the transmigration of virtuous souls (Joseph, de Bell. JudaicoJih. ii. c. 7.,) and a mo­dern rabbi is modestly assured that Hermes, Pythagoras, Plato, &c. derived their metaphysics from his illus­trious countrymen. (3) Four different opinions have been entertained concerning the origin of human souls. 3. Thatrheyareeternal and divine. 2. That they were created in a separate state of existence, before their union with thebody. 3. That they have been propagated from the original stock of Adam, who contained in himself themental as well as the corporeal seed of his posterity. 4. That each soul is occasionally created and embodiedin the moment of conception. The last of these sentiments appears to have prevailed among the moderns;and our spiritual history is grown less suhlime, without becoming more intelligible. (4) Or* q tou yjwnjpat, if tou AS*** ttv—was one of the fifteen heresies imputed to Origen, and deniedby his apologist (Photius, Bibliothec. Cod. 117. p. 296.) Some of the rabbies attribute one and the same soul tuthe persons of Adam, David, and the Messiah. ' (5) Apostolisadhnc in seculo superstitibus,apud Judseam Christ! sanguine recente, Phantasma domini cor­pus asserebatur. Hieronym. advent. Lucifer, c. viii. The epistle of Ignatius to the Smynseans, and eventhe gospel according to St. John, are levelled against the growing error of the Docetes, who had obtained toomuch credit in the world (1 John iv. 1—5.) (A) About the year 200 of the Christian era, Irenecus and Hippolytus refuted the thirty-two sects, nrc if/.-uJ*-fjuev yvtoTjw; which had multiplied to fourscore in the time of Epiphanius. (Phot. Biblioth. Cod. 120—122.>The five books of Irenseus exist only in barbarous Latin; but the original might perhaps he found in some mo­nastery of Greece. Vol. III. 26