OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 31 victory." TheMonaphysite doctrine (one incarnate na­ture) was rigorously preached in the churches of Egyptand the monasteries of the east; the primitive creed ofA poll mavis was protected by the sanctity of Cyril; andthe name of Eutyches, his venerable friend, has been ap­plied to the sect most adverse to the Syrian heresy ofNestorius. His rival Eutyches was the abbot, or archi­mandrite, or superior of three hundred monks; but theopinions of a simple and illiterate recluse might have ex­pired in the cell where he had slept above seventy years,if the resentment or indiscretion of Flavian, the Byzan­tine pontiff, had not exposed the scandal to the eyes ofthe Christian world. His domestic synod was instantlyconvened, their proceedings were sullied with clamourand artifice, and the aged heretic was surprised into aseeming confession, that Christ had not derived his bodyfrom the substance of the Virgin Mary. From their par­tial decree Eutyches appealed to a general council; andhis cause was vigorously asserted by his godson Chry-saphius, the reigning eunuch of the palace, and his ac­complice Dioscorus, who had succeeded to the throne,the creed, the talents, and the vices, of the nephew ofSecond Theophilus. By the special summons of Theo-Ephesus0 dosius, the second synod of Ephesus wasjudi-Auf a^9' ciousty composed of ten metropolitans and ten«• bishops from each of the six diocesses of theeastern empire: some exceptions of favour or meritenlarged the number to one hundred and thirty-five;and the Syrian Barsumas, as the chief and representa­tive of the monks, was invited to sit and vote with thesuccessors of the apostles. But the despotism of theAlexandrian patriarch again oppressed the freedom "Dixi Cyrillum dnm viveret, auctoritate sua effecisse, ne Eutychianismna et Mo-nophysitarum error in nervum erurnperet: idque verum puto . . . aliquo . . . ho-nesto modo roXiuiuy cecinerat. The learned but cautious Jablonski did not al­ways speak the whole truth. Cum Cyrillo lenius omuino egi, qusm si tecum autaliis rei hujus probe gnaris et scquis rerum sstimatoribus sermones privates confer-rtro, (Thesaur. Epistol. La Crozian, torn. 1. p. 197,198.) an excellent key to hisdissertations on the Nestorian controversy!