OCR Output C. IX.] THE SIEGE. 209 -with the slavery we were under at Babylon, where the peoplewere captives for seventy years; yet were they not deliveredinto freedom again before God made Cyrus his gracious in足strument in bringing it about: accordingly, they were setfree by him, and did again restore the worship of theirdeliverer at his temple. And, to speak in general, we canproduce no example wherein our fathers got any success bywar, or failed of success when without war they committedthemselves to God. When they stayed at home, they con足quered, as pleased their judge; but when they went out tofight, they were always disappointed: for example, when theking of Babylon besieged this very city, and our kingZedekiah fought against him, contrary to what predictionswere made to him by Jeremiah the prophet, he was at oncetaken prisoner, and saw the city and the temple demolished.Yet how much greater was the moderation of that king thanis that of your present governors, and that of the people thenunder him, than is that of you at this time ? for whenJeremiah cried out aloud, how very angry God was at them,because of their transgressions, and told them they shouldbe taken prisoners, unless they would surrender up theircity, neither did the king nor the people put him to death:but for you (to pass over what you have done within the city,which I am not able to describe, as your wickedness deserves,)you abuse me, and throw darts at me, who only exhort youto save yourselves, as being provoked when you are put inmind of j'our sins, and cannot bear the very mention of thosecrimes which you every day perpetrate. For another ex足ample, when Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes, laybefore this city, and had been guilty of many indignitiesagainst God, and our forefathers met him in arms, they thenwere slain in the battle, this city was plundered by ourenemies, and our sanctuary made desolate for three yearsand six months. And what need I bring any more examples ?Indeed, what can it be that hath stirred up an army of theRomans against our nation ? is it not the impiety of the in足habitants ? Whence did our servitude commence ? was it notderived from the seditions that were among our forefathers, 18*