OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 261 of obtaining Africa: they therefore wished that Italyand Africa should be disposed of by lot: but this wasopposed, though by Quintus Metellns chiefly. Theconsuls were ordered to apply to the tribunes, to takethe sense of the people as to who should conduct thewar in Africa. All the tribes concurred in appointingPublius Scipio. Nevertheless the consuls put the pro­vince of Africa to the lot, for so the senate had de­creed, and it fell to Tiberius Claudius, who was tocarry to Africa a fleet of fifty ships, all quinqueremes,with authority equal to that of Scipio. Marcus Servi-lius obtained Etruria; and in the same province thecommand was continued to Caius Servilius, if the se­nate thought proper that the consul should remain inthe city. Of the pretors, Marcus Sextius obtainedGaul, where Publius Quintilius Varus was fo deliverto him two legions with the province; Cains Livins,Bruttium, with the two legions which Publius Sem-pronius, proconsul, had commanded the year before;Cneius Tremellius, Sicily, with directions to receivefrom Publius Villius Tappulus, pretor of the formeryear, the province and two legions; Villius, as pro-pretor, was appointed to protect the coast of Sicilywith twenty ships of war and one thousand troops;Marcus Pomponius, to convey from thence to Rome,with the remaining twenty ships, one thousand fivehundred soldiers. The city jurisdiction fell to CaiusAurelius Cotta: the rest were conlinued in their pro­vinces, and with the armies to which they were firstappointed. Not more than sixteen legions were em­ployed that year in the service of the empire. Inorder to conciliate the favor of the gods to all theirundertaking's and proceedings, it was ordered that theconsuls should, before they set out to the campaign,celebrate those games, and with the greater victims,which Titus Manlius, dictator, in the consulate of Mar­cus Claudius Marcellus and Titus Quintius, had vowed,provided the commonwealth should for the next fiveyears continue in the same state. The games wereexhibited in the circus during four days, and the