OCR Output 398 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. the poor and savage countries of Germany, which weresubject to the dominion of the Franks. After the twodoubtful battles, he consented to retire; and the Aus^trasian king relieved the distress of his camp with animmediate supply of corn and cattle.8 Such repeateddisappointments had chilled the spirit of the Avars; andtheir power would have dissolved away in the Sarmatiandesert, if the alliance of Alboin, king of the Lombards,had not given a new object to their arms, and a lastingsettlement to their wearied fortunes.Alboin While Alboin served under his father's standard, he kmg of f the Lom- encountered in battle, and transpierced with his lance,his valour, the rival prince of the Gepidae. The Lombards, whoreve'n»e.d applauded such early prowess, requested his father, withunanimous acclamations, that the heroic youth, who hadshared the dangers of the field, might be admitted to thefeast of victory. "You are not unmindful (replied theinflexible Audoin) of the wise customs of our ancestors.Whatever may be his merit, a prince is incapable of sit­ting at table with his father till he has received his armsfrom a foreign and royal hand." Alboin bowed with re­verence to the institutions of his country; selected fortycompanions, and boldly visited the court of Turisundking of the Gepidae, who embraced and entertained, ac­cording to the laws of hospitality, the murderer of hisson. At the banquet, whilst Alboin occupied the seatof the youth whom he had slain, a tender remembrancearose in the mind of Turisund. "How dear is that place—how hateful is that person—" were the words that es­caped, with a sigh, from the indignant father. His griefexasperated the national resentment of the Gepidae; andCunimund, his, surviving son, was provoked by wine, orfraternal affection, to the desire of vengeance. "TheLombards, (said the rude barbarian) resemble, in figureand in smell, the mares of our Sarmatian plains." And e For the Austrasian war, see Menander, (Excerpt. Legat. p. 110.) Gregory ofTours, Hist. Franc. lib. 4. c. 29.) and Paul the deacou. (do Gest. Langohard. lib.2. c. 10.)