OCR Output C. V.J A FALSE PROPHET. 273 speak all in a few words, there it was that the entire richesof the Jews were heaped up together, while the rich peoplehad there huilt themselves chambers [to contain such fur足niture.] The soldiers also came to the rest of the cloistersthat were in the outer [court of the] temple, whither thewomen and children, and a great mixed multitude of thepeople, fled, in number about six thousand. But beforeCaesar had determined any thing about these people, or giventhe commanders any orders relating to them, the soldierswere in such a rage that they set that cloister on fire; bywhich means it came to pass, that some of these were de足stroyed by throwing themselves down headlong, and somewere burnt in the cloisters themselves. Nor did any one ofthem escape with his life. A false prophet was the occasion 1of these people's destruction, who had made a public pro足clamation in the city that very day, that " God commandedthem to get up upon the temple, and that there they shouldreceive miraculous signs of their deliverance." Now therowas then a great number of false prophets suborned by thetyrants to impose on the people, who denounced this to them,that they should wait for deliverance from God; that thiswas in order to keep them from deserting, and that theymight be buoyed up above fear and care by such hopes.Now a man that is in adversity does easily comply with suchpromises; for when such a seducer makes him believe thathe shall be delivered from those miseries which oppress him,then it is that the patient is full of hopes of such his deliverance.3. Thus were the miserable people persuaded by these de足ceivers, and such as belied God himself; while they did notattend nor give credit to the signs that were so evident, anddid so plainly foretell their future desolation, but like meninfatuated, without either eyes to see or minds to consider, didnot regard the denunciations that God made to them. Thusthere was a star2 resembling a sword which stood over thecity, and a comet2 that continued a whole year. Thus also 1 Keland here justly takes notice, that these Jews, who had despised thetrue Prophet, were deservedly abused and deluded by these fake ones. * Whether Josephus means that this star was different from that comet whichlasted a whole year, I cannot certainly determine. His words most favortheir being different one from another.