OCR Output a^. 1460.] 159 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tribe, and gave it in charge to those that car­ried them, to inform the tribes of those thatwere the cause of his wife's death, and of theviolence they had offered her. Upon this the people were greatly dis­turbed at what they saw and heard; as neverhaving had the experience of such a thingbefore. So they gathered themselves to Shi-loli, out of a just anger; and, assembling in agreat congregation before the tabernacle,they immediately resolved to take arms, andto treat the inhabitants of Gibeah as enemies.But the senate restrained them from doing so,and persuaded them that they ought not sohastily to make war upon people of the samenation with them, before they discoursed withthem, by words, concerning the accusationlaid against them. It being* part of their law,that they should not bring an army againstforeigners themselves, when they appear tohave been injurious, without sending an am-bassage first, and trying thereby whether theywill repent or not; and accordingly they ex­horted them to do what they ought, in obedi­ence to their laws; that is, to send to the in­habitants of Gibeah, to know whether theywould deliver up the offenders to them; andif they should deliver them up, to rest satis­fied with the punishment of those offenders;but if they despised the message that was sentthem, to punish them, by taking up armsagainst them. Accordingly they sent to theinhabitants of Gibeah, and accused the youngmen of the crimes committed in the affair ofthe Levite's wife; and required of them, thosethat had done what was contrary to the law,that they might be punished; as having justlyfdeserved to die for what they had done. Butthe inhabitants of Gibeah would not deliverup the young men, and thought it too re­proachful for them, out of fear of war, to sub­mit to other men's demands upon them;vaunting themselves to be no way inferior toany in war, neither in their number, nor incourage. The rest of their tribe also madegreat preparation for war: for they were so insolently mad also, as to resolve to repelforce by force. When it was related to the Israelites, whatthe inhabitants of Gibeah had resolved upon,they took an oath that no one of them wouldgive his daughter in marriage to a Benjamite;but that they would make war with greaterfury against them, than their forefathers hadmade war against the Canaanites. Accord­ingly they sent out an army of four hundredthousand against them; while the Benjamites'army wasJ twenty-five thousand and six hun­dred; five hundred of whom were excellentat slinging stones with their left hands. Whenthe battle was joined at Gibeah, the Benja­mites beat the Israelites, and of them therefell twenty-two thousand men; and probablymore had been destroyed had not the nightcome on, and broken off the fight. So theBenjamites returned to the city with joy, andthe Israelites returned to their camp in greataffliction at what had happened. On the nextday, when they fought again, the Benjamitesbeat them, and eighteen thousand of theIsraelites were slain, and the rest desertedtheir camp out of fear of a great slaughter.So they came toll Bethel, a city that was nearthe camp, and§ fasted on the next day, andbesought God, by Phineas, the high-priest,that his wrath against them might cease; andthat he would be satisfied with these two de­feats, and give them the victory over theirenemies. Accordingly God promised themso to do, by the prophesying of Phineas. When therefore they had divided the armyinto two parts, they laid the one half of themin ambush about the city Gibeah by night,while the other half attacked the Benjamites;these retiring upon the assault, the Benja­mites pursued them; while the Hebrews re­tired by slow degrees, as desirous to drawthem entirely from the city, and the otherfollowed them as they retired, till both theold and young men that were left in the cityas too weak to fight, came running out toge­ther as willing to bring their enemies under. -'* See IV. 8. and Deut. xx. 10. t Deut. xxii. 25. j Jiidg. xx. 46, 47. II Josephus seems here to have made a small mistake,when he took the Hebrew word Beth-El, which denotesthe house of God, or the tabernacle, Judg. xx. 18, for theproper name of a place, Bethel. It no way appearing that the tabernacle was ever at Bethel. Only so far it is true,that Shiloh, the place of the tabernacle in the days of theJudges, was not far from Bethel. § See this account in Josephus, remarked as one of themo«t necessary and important emendations his temple copyaffords us, different from all our other copies. LiterAccompl. of Proph. Supplement, pag. 76, 76, 77.