OCR Output 144 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. with the Teutones, was as consul and governor intrustedwith the conduct of the war. After two years of hardstruggles—Aquillius is said to have fought in person withAthenion, and to have killed him in single combat—theRoman general at length put down the desperate resistance,and vanquished the insurgents in their last retreats byfamine. The slaves on the island were prohibited frombearing arms and peace was again restored to it, or, in otherwords, its recent scourges were relieved by its formertormentors; in fact, the victor himself occupied a promi­nent place among the numerous and energetic robber-magi­strates of this period. Any one who still required a proofof the internal quality of the government of the restoredaristocracy, might be referred to the origin and to the con­duct of this second Sicilian slave-war, which lasted for fiveyears.The depend- But wherever the eye was turned throughout the wideent states. spnere of R,oman administration, the same causes and thesame effects appeared. If the Sicilian slave-war showedhow far the government was from being equal to even itssimplest task of keeping in check the proletariate, contem­porary events in Africa displayed the skill with which theRomans now governed the dependent states. About thevery time when the Sicilian slave-war broke out, there wasexhibited before the eyes of the astonished world thespectacle of an unimportant client-prince able to carry outa fourteen years' usurpation and insurrection against themighty republic which had shattered the kingdoms of Mace­donia and Asia with one blow of its weighty arm—and thatnot by means of arms, but through the pitiful character ofits rulers.Numidia. The kingdom of Numidia stretched from the riverMolochath to the great Syrtis (ii. 204) bordering on theone side with the Mauretanian kingdom of Tingis (the'mo­dern Morocco) and on the other with Cyreneand Egypt, andsurrounding on the west, south, and east the narrow districtof coast which formed the Roman province of Africa. i Inaddition to the old possessions of the Numidian chiefs, itembraced by far the greatest portion of the territory whichCarthage had possessed in Africa during the times of itsprosperity — including several important Old-Phoeniciancities, such as Hippo Regius (Bona) and Great Leptis(Lebidah)—altogether the largest and best part of the rich