OCR Output AN. 10S 1532.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. with the kids of the goats; but abating one ofthe bulls every day, till they amounted toseven only. On the eighth day all work waslaid aside, and then, as we said before, theysacrificed to God a bullock, a ram, sevenlambs, and a kid of the goats for an expiationof sins: and this is the accustomed solemnityof the Hebrews when they pitch their taber­nacles. But in the month of Xanthicus, which is byus called Nisan,* and is the beginning of ouryear, on the fourteenth day of the lunar month,when the sun is in Aries, (for on this monthit was that we were delivered from bondageunder the Egyptians,) the law ordained thatwe should every year slay that sacrifice,which I before observed we slew when wecame out of Egypt, and which was called thePassover; and so do we celebrate this pass-over in companies, and leave nothing of whatwe sacrifice till the day following. The feastof unleavened bread succeeds that of thepassover, and falls on the fifteenth day of themonth, and continues seven days, whereinthey feed on unleavened bread; on every oneof which days two bulls are killed, and oneram, and seven lambs. Now these lambs areentirely burnt, besides the kid of the goats,which is added to all the rest, for sins; for itis intended as a feast for the priest on everyone of those days. But on the second day ofunleavened bread, which is the sixteenth dayof the month, they first partake of the fruits ofthe earth, for before that day they do nottouch them. And while they suppose it pro­per to honour God, from whom they obtainthis plentiful provision, in the first place theyoffer the first fruits of their barley, and that inthe manner following: They take a handfulof the ears, and dry them; they then beatthem small, and cleanse the barley from thebran; they then bring one tenth deal to thealtar to God, and casting one handful of itupon the fire, they leave the rest for the useof the priests; and after this it is that theymay publicly or privately reap their harvest.They also, at this participation of the firstfruits of the earth, sacrifice a lamb as a burnt-offering to God. When a week of weeks has passed overafter this sacrifice, which weeks contain forty * Or Abid. Deut. xvi. 1. voL. I.—No. 9. and nine days; on the fiftiethf day, called bythe Hebrews Asartha, which signifies Pente­cost, they bring to God a loaf made of wheatflour, of two tenth deals with leaven; and forsacrifices they bring two lambs; and whenthey have only presented them to God, theyare made ready for supper for the priests:nor is it permitted to leave any thing of themtill the day following. They also slay threebullocks for a burnt-offering, and two rams,and fourteen lambs, with two kids of the goatsfor sins: nor is there any one of the festivalsbut in it they offer burnt-offerings. They alsoallow themselves to rest on every one of them:accordingly the law prescribes in them allwhat kinds they are to sacrifice, and how theyare to rest entirely, and must slay sacrificesin order to feast upon them. However, out of the common charges bakedbread was set on the table of shew breadwithout leaven, of twenty-four tenth deals offlour, for so much is spent upon this bread;two heaps of these were baked; they weretaken the day before the sabbath, but werebrought into the holy place on the morning ofthe sabbath, and set upon the holy table sixon a heap, one loaf still standing over againstanother, where two golden cups, full of frank­incense, were also set upon them; and therethey remained till another sabbath; and thenother loaves were brought in their stead,while the loaves were given to the priests fortheir food, and the frankincense was burnt inthat sacred fire wherein all their offeringswere burnt also; and so other frankincensewas set upon the loaves instead of what wasthere before. The high-priest also, at hisown expense offered a sacrifice twice everyday. It was made of flour, mingled with oil,and gently baked by the fire. The quantitywas one tenth deal of flour. He brought thehalf of it to the fire in the morning, and theother half at night. The account of thesesacrifices I shall give more accurately here­after, but I think I have premised what for thepresent may be sufficient concerning them. M CHAP. XI. OF THE PURIFICATIONS. OSES took out the tribe of Levi fromcommunicating with the rest of the t Levit. xxiii. 16. Dd