OCR Output 616 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. send greeting. Sopater, the ambassador ofHyrcanus the high-priest, hath delivered usan epistle from thee; whereby he lets usknow that certain ambassadors were comefrom Hyrcanus, the high-priest of the Jews,and brought an epistle written concerningtheir nation; wherein they desire that theJews may be allowed to observe their sab­baths, and other sacred rites, according tothe laws of their forefathers; and that theymay not be prevented therefrom; becausethey are our friends and confederates; andthat nobody may injure them in our provinces.Now although the Trallians there presentcontradicted them, and were not pleasedwith these decrees, yet didst thou give orderthat they should be observed; and inform-edst us that thou hadst been desired to writethis to us about them. We therefore, in obe­dience to the injunctions received from thee,have received thy epistle; and have laid itup among our public records. And as to theother things about which thou didst send, wewill take care that no complaint be madeagainst us." "Publius Servilius, the son of Publius, ofthe Galban tribe, proconsul, to the magis­trates, senate, and people of the Milesians,sendeth greeting. Prytanes, the son of Her­mes, a citizen of yours, came to me when Iwas at Tralles, and held a court there; andinformed me, that you used the Jews in away different from my opinion; and forbadethem to celebrate their sabbaths, and to per­form their sacred rites received from theirforefathers; and to manage the fruits of theland according to their ancient custom; andthat he had himself been the promulger ofyour degree, according as your laws require.I would therefore have you know, that uponhearing the pleadings on both sides, I gavesentence, that the Jews should not be prohi­bited from making use of their own customs." "The decree of those of Pergamus. WhenCratippus was prytanis, on the first day ofthe month Desius, the decree of the praetorswas this. Since the Romans, following theconduct of their ancestors, undertake dan­gers for the common safety of all mankind;and are ambitious to settle their confederatesand friends in happiness, and in firm peace; * We haye here a most remarkable and authentic at­testation of the citizens of Pergamus, that Abraham was and since the nation of the Jews, and theirhigh-priest Hyrcanus, sent as ambassadorsto them, Strabo the son of Theodatus, Apol-lonius, the son of Alexander, Eneas, the sonof Antipater, Aristobulus, the son of Amyn-tas, and Sosipater, the son of Philip, worthyand good men; who gave a particular ac­count of their affairs: the senate thereuponmade a decree about what they had desiredof them; that Antiochus the king, the son ofAntiochus, should do no injury to the Jews,the confederates of the Romans; and thatthe fortresses and the havens, and the coun­try, and whatsoever else he had taken fromthem, should be restored; and that it may belawful for them to export their goods out oftheir own havens; and that no king nor peo­ple may have leave to export any goods, ei­ther out of the country of Judea, or out oftheir havens, without paying customs; butonly Ptolemy, king of Alexandria: becausehe is our confederate, and friend: and thataccording to their desire the garrison that isin Joppa may be ejected. Now Lucius Pet-tius, one of our senators, a worthy and goodman, gave order that we should take carethat these things should be done. accordingto the senate's decree; and that their ambas­sadors might return home in safety. Accor­dingly we admitted Theodorus into our se­nate, and took the epistle out of his hands,as well as the decree of the senate. And ashe discoursed with great zeal about the Jews,and described Hyrcanus's virtue and gene­rosity, and how he was a benefactor to allmen in common, and particularly to everybody that comes to him; we laid up theepistle in our public records; and made adecree ourselves, that since we also are inconfederacy with the Romans, we would doevery thing we could for the Jews, accordingto the senate's decree. Theodorus also, whobrought the epistle, desired of our praetorsthat they would send Hyrcanus a copy ofthat decree; as also ambassadors to signifyto him the affection of our people; and toexhort them to preserve and augment theirfriendship for us, and be ready to bestowother benefits upon us; as justly expectingto receive proper requitals from us; and de­siring them to remember, that our *ancestors the father of all the Hebrews; that their own ancestorswere, in the eldest times, the friends of those Hebrews ,