OCR Output 12 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. change her habitation, and come to him as soon as he should re­turn from Rome : one article of this marriage also was this,that he should divorce Aretas's daughter. So Antipas, when hehad made this agreement, sailed to Rome ; but when he had donethere the business he went about, and was returned again, hiswife having discovered the agreement he had made with Hero-dias, and having learned it before he had notice of her knowledgeof the whole design, she desired him to send her to Macherns,which is a place in the borders of the dominions of Aretas andHerod, without informing him of any of her intentions. Ac­cordingly Herod sent her thither, as thinking his wife had notperceived any thing ; now, she had sent a good while before toMacherus, which was subject to her father, and so all things ne­cessary for her journey were made ready for her by the generalof Aretas's army ; and by that means she soon came into Ara­bia, under the conduct of the several generals, who carried herfrom one to another successively, and she soon came to her father,and told him of Herod's intentions. So Aretas made this thefirst occasion of his enmity between him and Herod, who hadalso some quarrel with him about their limits at the country ofGemalitis. So they raised armies on both sides, and preparedfor war, and sent their generals to fight instead of themselves ;and, when they had joined battle, all Herod's army was destroyedby the treachery of some fugitives, who, though they were ofthe tetrarchy of Philip, joined with Herod's army. So Herodwrote about these affairs to Tiberius, who being very angry atthe attempt made by Aretas, wrote to Vitellius, to make warupon him, and either to take him alive, and bring him to him inbonds, or to kill him, and send him his head. This was thecharge that Tiberius gave to the president of Syria. 2. Now, some of the Jews thought that the destruction of He­rod's army came from God, and that very justly, as a punish­ment of what he did against John, that was called the Baptist,for Herod slew him, who was a good man, and commanded theJews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards oneanother, and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism; forthat the washing [with water] would be acceptable to him, ifthey made use of it, not in order to the putting away [or theremission] of some sins [only], but for the purification of thebody ; supposing still that the soul was thoroughly purified be­forehand by righteousness. Now, when [many] others came incrowds about him, for they were greatly moved [or pleased]by hearing his words, Herod, who feared lest the great influenceJohn had over the people might put it into his power and incli­nation to raise rebellion, (for they seemed to do any thing he should