OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. slightly baked by the same fire which warmed the bathsof Constantinople: and when the sacks were opened, asoft and mouldy paste was distributed to the army. Suchunwholesome food, assisted by the heat of the climateand season, vsoon produced an epidemical disease, whichswept away five hundred soldiers. Their health was re- .stored by the diligence of Belisarius, who provided freshbread at Methone, and boldly expressed his just and hu­mane indignation: the emperor heard his complaint; thegeneral was praised; but the minister was not punished.From the port of Methone, the pilots steered along thewestern coast of Peloponnesus, as far as the isle of Za-cynthus or Zant, before they undertook the voyage (intheir eyes a most arduous voyage) of one hundred leaguesover the Ionian sea. As the fleet was surprised by acalm, sixteen days were consumed in the slow navigation;and even the general would have suffered the intolerablehardship of thirst, if the ingenuity of Antonina had notpreserved the water in glass bottles, which she burieddeep in the sand in a part of the ship impervious to therays of the sun. At length the harbour ofCaucana,"on the southern side of Sicily, afforded a secure and hos­pitable shelter. The Gothic officers, who governed theisland in the name of the daughter and grandson of The-odoric, obeyed their imprudent orders, to receive thetroops of Justinian like friends and allies; provisions wereliberally supplied, the cavalry was remounted,0 and Pro-copius soon returned from Syracuse with correct informa­tion, of the state and designs of the Vandals. His intel­ligence determined Belisarius to hasten his operations,and his wise impatience was seconded by the winds. Thefleet lost sight of Sicily, passed before the isle of Malta,discovered the capes of Africa, ran along the coast with1 "Caucana, near Camarlna, is rtleast fifty miles (three hundred and fifty or four'hundred stadia) from Syracuse. (C. iver, Sicilia Antiqua, p. 191.) t ° Procopius, Gothic, lib. 1. o. 3\ Tibi tollil hinnitum apta quadrigis equa, in, the Sicilian pastures of Grosphuus. (titirat. Carm. 2. 16.) Acragas magna- nimiim quondam generator cquorum. (Virg. ./Bneid, .3.701.) There's horses, nhos».victories are immortalized by Pindar, were bred in this couatry.