OCR Output 192 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. Cimbrians Thus Gaul was delivered from the Germans; and it wasin Italy. time, for their brothers-in-arms were already on the southside of the Alps. In alliance with the Helvetii, the Cimbrihad without difficulty passed from the Seine to the region ofthe sources of the Rhine, had crossed the chain of the Alpsby the Brenner pass, and had descended thence through thevalleys of the Eisach and Adige into the Italian plain.Here the consul Quintus Lutatius Catulus was to guard thepasses; but not fully acquainted with the country andafraid of having his flank turned, he had not ventured to ad足vance into the Alps, but had posted himself below Trent onthe left bank of the Adige, and had secured in any event hisretreat to the right bank by the construction of a bridge.When the Cimbrians, however, pushed forward in densemasses from the mountains, a panic seized the Roman army,and legionaries and horsemen ran off, the latter straight forthe capital, the former to the nearest height which seemedto yield security. With great difficulty Catulus brought atleast the greater portion of his army by a stratagem back tothe river and over the bridge, before the enemy, who com足manded the upper course of the Adige and were alreadyfloating down trees and beams against the bridge, succeededin destroying it and thereby cutting off the retreat of thearmy. But the general had to leave behind a legion on theother bank, and the cowardly tribune who led it was alreadydisposed to capitulate, when the centurion Gnaeus Petreiusof Atina struck him down and cut his way through themidst of the enemy to the main army on the right bank ofthe Adige. Thus the army, and in some degree even thehonour of their arms, was saved; but the consequences ofthe neglect to occupy the passes and of the too hasty retreatwere yet very seriously felt. Catulus was obliged to with足draw to the right bank of the Po and to leave the wholeplain between the Po and the Alps in the power of the Cim足bri, so that communication was maintained with Aquileia102. only by sea. This took place in the summer of 652, aboutthe same time when the decisive battle between the Teutonesand the Bomans occurred at Aquae Sextiae. Had the Cimbricontinued their attack without interruption, Bome mighthave been greatly embarrassed; but on this occasion alsothey remained faithful to their custom of resting in winter,and all the more, because the rich country, the unwontedquarters under the shelter of a roof, the warm baths, and the