OCR Output C. V.] DISTRESS OF THE JEWS. 271 CHAPTER V. THE GREAT DISTRESS THE JEWS WERE IN UPON THE CON­FLAGRATION OF THE HOLY HOUSE. CONCERNING A FALSEPROPHET, AND THE SIGNS THAT PRECEDED THIS DESTRUCTION. § 1. While the holy house was on fire, every thing wasplundered that came to hand, and ten thousand of those thatwere caught were slain: nor was there a commiseration ofany age, or any reverence of gravity, hut children and oldmen, and profane persons, and priests, were all slain in thesame manner; so that this war went round all sorts of men,and brought them to destruction, and as well those that madesupplication for their lives as those that defended themselvesby fighting. The flame was also carried a long way, andmade an echo, together with the groans of those that wereslain; and because this hill was high, and the works at thetemple were very great one would have thought the wholecity had been on fire. Nor can one imagine any thing eithergreater or more terrible than this noise; for there was atonce a shout of the Roman legions, who were marching alltogether, and a sad clamor of the seditious, who were nowsurrounded with fire and sword. The people also that wereleft above were beaten back upon the enemy, and under agreat consternation, and made sad moans at the calamitythey were under: the multitude also that was in the cityjoined in this outcry with those that were upon the hill: and,besides, many of those that were worn away by the famine,and their mouths almost closed, when they saw the fire ofthe holy house, they exerted their utmost strength, and brakeout into groans and outcries again: Perea1 did also return 1 This Perec, if the word be not mistaken in the copies, cannot well bethat Perea which was beyond Jordan, whose mountains were at a con­siderable distance from Jordan, and much too remote from Jerusalem tojoin this echo at the conflagration of the temple; but Perea must be rathersome mountains beyond the brook Cedron, as was the mount of Olives, orRome others, about such a distance from Jerusalem: which observation is soobvious, that it is a wonder our commentators here take no notice of it.