OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 419 At the extreme point of Calabria, he touched with hisspear a column on the sea-shore of Rhegium,1 proclaimingthat ancient land mark to stand the immoveable boun­dary of his kingdom.11 During a period of two hundred years, Italy was un- J^6*"1"equally divided between the kingdom of the Lombards Ravenna,and the exarchate of Ravenna. The offices and profes­sions, which the jealousy of Constantine had separated,were united by the indulgence of Justinian; and eighteensuccessive exarchs were invested, in the decline of the em­pire, with the full remains of civil, of military, and evenof ecclesiastical power. Their immediate jurisdiction,which was afterward consecrated as the patrimony of St.Peter, extended over the modern Romagna, the marshesor valleys of Ferrara and Commachio,1 five maritime citiesfrom Rimini to Ancona, and a second, inland Pentapolis,between the Adriatic coast and the hills of the Apennine.Three subordinate provinces, of Rome, of Venice, and ofNaples, which were divided by hostile lands from the pa­lace of Ravenna, acknowledged, both in peace and war,the supremacy of the exarch. The dutchy of Rome ap­pears to have included the Tuscan, Sabine, and Latinconquests, of the first four hundred years of the city, andthe limits maybe distinctly traced along the coast, fromCivita Vecchia, to Terracina, and with the course of theTiber from Ameria and Narni to the port of Ostia. Thenumerous islands from Grado to Chiozza, composed theinfant dominion of Venice; but the more accessible 'The Columns Rhegina, in the narrowest port of the Faro of Messina, one hundred'stadia from Rhegium itself, is frequently mentioned in ancient geography, Cluver.Ital. Antiq. torn. 2. p. 1395. Lucas Holslein. Annolat. ad Cluver. p. 301. Wes-aeling, Itinerar. p. 106. k The Greek historians afford some faint hints of the wars of Italy. (Menander, inExcerpt. Legat. p. 124.126. Theophylact, lib. 3. c. 4.) The Latins are more satisfac­tory ; and especially Paul Warnefrid, (lib.3.13—34.)who had read the more antienthistories of Secundus and Gregory of Tours. Baronius produces some letters of thepopes, &co. and the times are measured by the accurate scale of Pagi and Muratori. 1 The papal advocates,Zacagni and Fnntanini, might justly claim the Talleyor mo­rass of Commachio as a part of the exarchate. But the ambition of including Mo-dena, Reggio, Parma, and Placentia, has darkened a geographical question somewhatdoubtful and obscure. Even Muratori, as the servant of the house of Este, is notfree from partiality and prejudice.