OCR Output INTRODUCTION. 69 of the sea; and immediately began to put the plan in execu­tion. And by his direction it was, that they built the wallround the Piraus of that thickness which is visible to thisday. For two carts carrying the stone passed along it byone another ; Within was neither mortar nor mud ; but theentire structure was one pile of large stones hewn square toclose their angles exactly, and grappled firmly together onthe outside with iron and lead ; though in height it was notcarried up above half so far as he intended. He contrived itto be, both in height and breadth, an impregnable rampartagainst hostile assaults ; and he designed, that a few, andthose the least able of the people, might be sufficient to manit, whilst the rest should be employed on board the fleet.His attention was chiefly confined to a navy ; plainly dis­cerning, in my opinion, that the forces of the King had amuch easier way to annoy them by sea than by land. Hethence judged the Piraus to be a place of much greater im­portance than the upper city. And this piece of advice hefrequently gave the Athenians, that " if ever they were press­ed hard by land, they should retire down thither, and withtheir naval force make head against all opponents." In thismanner the Athenians, without losing time, after the retreatof the Medes, fortified their city, and prepared all the neces­sary means for their own security. Pausanias the son of Cleombrotus was sent out from La-cedaemon, as commander in chief of the Grecians, withtwenty sail of ships from Peloponnesus, joined by thirtyAthenians and a number of other allies. They bent theircourse against Cyprus, and reduced most of the towns there.From thence they proceeded to Byzantium garrisoned bythe Medes, and blockaded, and carried the place under hisdirections. But, being now grown quite turbulent in command, theother Grecians, especially the Ionians and all who had latelyrecovered their liberty from the royal yoke, were highly cha­grined. They addressed themselves to the Athenians, re- Vol. I. Z