OCR Output S86 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. the death of their mother, that while they said both she andthemselves were in a miserable case, they vehemently complain­ed of her pitiable end, which indeed was truly such, and saidthat they were themselves in a pitiable case also, because theywere forced to live with those that had been her murderers,and to be partakers with them. 2. These disorders increased greatly, and the king's absenceabroad had afforded a fit opportunity for that increase; but assoon as Herod was returned, and had made the forementionedspeech to the multitude, Pheroras and Salome let fall words im­mediately, as if he were in great danger, and as if the youngmen openly threatened that they would not spare him any longer,but revenge their mother's death upon him. They also addedanother circumstance, that their hopes were fixed on Arche-laus, the king of Cappadocia, that they should be able by hismeans to come to Caesar, and accuse their father. Upon hearingsuch things, Herod was immediately disturbed; and indeed wasthe more astonished, because the same things were related tohim by some others also. He then called to mind his formercalamity, and considered that the disorders in his family hadhindered him from enjoying any comfort from those that weredearest to him, or from his wife whom he loved so well; andsuspecting that his future troubles would soon be heavier andgreater, than those that were past, he was in great confusion ofmind; for divine providence had in reality conferred upon hima great many outward advantages for his happiness, even be­yond his hopes, but the troubles he had at home were such ashe never expected to have met with, and rendered him unfortu­nate; nay both sorts came upon him to such a degree as no onecould imagine, and made it a doubtful question, whether, uponthe comparison of both, he ought to have exchanged so great asuccess of outward good things, for so great misfortunes at home,or whether he ought not to have chosen to avoid the calamitiesrelating to his family, though he had, for a compensation, neverbeen possessed of the admired grandeur of a kingdom. 3. As he was thus disturbed and afflicted, in order to depressthese young men, he brought to court another of his sons, thatwas born to him when he was a private man: his name wasAntipater ,' yet did he not then indulge him as he did afterwards,when he was quite overcome by him, and let him do every thingas he pleased, but rather with a design of depressing the insolenceof the sons of Mariamne, and managing this elevation of his so,that it might be for a warning to them, for this bold behaviourof theirs (he thought) would not be so great, if they were oncepersuaded, that the succession to the kingdom did not appertainto them alone, or must of necessity come to them. So he intro­