OCR Output CHAP. LII. '.OS from Persia to Greece. The queen (he spoke of Irene)considered you as a rook and herself a pawn. Thatpusillanimous female submitted to pay a tribute, thedouble of which she ought to have exacted from the bar­barians. Restore therefwe the fruits of your injustice,or abide the determination of the sword. At these wordsthe ambassadors cast a bundle of swords before thefoot of the throne. The caliph smiled at the menace,and drawing his scimitar, samsamah, a weapon of his­toric or fabulous renown, he cut asunder the feeble armsof the Greeks, without turning the edge, or endangeringthe tempe'r, of his blade. He then dictated an epistleof tremendous brevity: In the name of the most mer­ciful God, Haran al Rashid, commander of the faithful,to Nicephorus, the Roman dog. I have read thy letter,O thou son of an unbelieving mother. Thou shall nothear, thou shalt behold my reply. It was written in cha­racters of blood and fire on the plains of Phrygia, andthe warlike celerity of the Arabs could only be checkedby the arts of deceit and the show of repentance. Thetriumphant caliph retired, after the fatigues of the cam­paign, to his favourite palace.of Racca on the Euphrates:;but the distance of five hundred miles, and the inclemencyof the season, encouraged his adversary to violate thepeace. Nicephorus was astonished by the bold andrapid march of the commander of the faithful, who re-passed in the depth of winter, the snows of mount Taurus:his stratagems of policy and war were exhausted; andthe perfidious Greek escaped with three wounds from afield of battle overspread with forty thousand of his sub­jects. Yet the emperor was ashamed of submission, andthe caliph was resolved on victory. One hundred andthirty-five thousand regular soldiers received pay, and t For the situstion of Racea, the old Nicephorium, consult d'Anville. (L'Ea-phrate et le Tigre, p. 24—27.) The Arabian Nights represent Harun al Rashid asalmost stationary in Bagdad. He respected the royal seat of the Abbassides, buttho.vices of the inhabitants had driven hiro from the city. (Abulfed. Anna), p. 167.)