OCR Output Si I. INTRODUCTION. 5 in armour, like Barbarians. A proof of this is the continu­ance still in some parts of Greece of those manners, whichwere once with uniformity general to all. The Athenianswere the first who discontinued the custom of wearing theirswords, and who passed from the dissolute life into more po­lite and elegant manners. And it is not a long time sincethose amongst the rich, who were advanced in years andstudied their ease, left off wearing their linen garments andfastening the hair of their head behind with grasshoppers*of gold; though the aged amongst the Ionians have con­stantly persevered in the use of these ornaments as marksof their affinity. That modest uniformity of dress, which isstill in vogue, was first introduced by the Lacedaemonians ;amongst whom in other points also there was the greatestequality of dress and diet observed, both in the highest andthe meanest ranks. They also were the first who performedtheir exercises naked, stripping themselves in public andanointing with oil before they entered the lists ; though, be­fore, the custom had prevailed at the Olympic games for thechampions to wear scarfs about their loins ; and it is only afew years since these were quite disused]. But even yet,amongst some Barbarians, more especially those of Asia,where the matches of boxing and wrestling are in repute,the combatants engage with scarfs round their loins. Manyother arguments might with ease be alleged to prove thatancient Greece had forms and modes of living quite similarto those of the present Barbarian world. As for cities, so many as are of a later foundation, andbetter placed for The increase of wealth, since the improve­ment of naval skill; all these have been built on the seashore, and walled about, and are situated upon necks of landjutting out into the sea, for the sake of traffic and greater • To intimate their being the original possessors and pure natives of thesoil, as much as the very grasshoppers, which they supposed to be a naturaland spontaneous production of the earth. They regarded themselves ascoteinporary with the insects. t See Mr. West's Dissertation on the Olympic Games, p. 50.Vol. I. P