OCR Output 218 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. what a mighty misfortune was ready to over­take you, in your very camp, without yourknowing of it." Now when Saul knew David'svoice, and understood that when he had himin his power, while he was asleep, and hisguards took no care of him; yet did he sparehim, when he might justly have cut him off:he said, that "He owed him thanks for hispreservation; and exhorted him to be of goodcourage, and not to be afraid of suffering anymischief from him any more, and to return tohis own home; for he was now persuaded,that he did not love himself so well as he wasbeloved by him; that he had driven awayhim that could guard him, and had givenmany demonstrations of his good will; thathe had forced him to live so long in a state ofbanishment, and in great fears of his life; des­titute of his friends and his kindred. Whilestill he was often saved by him, and fre­quently received his life again when he wasevidently in danger of perishing." So Davidbade them send for the spear, and the cruseof water, and take them back; adding, thatGod would be the judge of both their dispo­sitions, and of the actions that flowed fromthe same: "for he knows," said he, "thatwhen it was this day in my power to havekilled thee, I abstained from it."* Saul, having thus escaped the hands ofDavid twice, returned to his royal palace, andhis own city. But David was airaid, if hestaid there, he should be caught by Saul. Sohe thought it better to go up into the land ofthe Philistines. Accordingly he came withthe six hundred men that were with him toAchish the king of Gath; which was one oftheir five cities. Now the king received bothhim and his men, and gave them a place toinhabit. He had with him also his two wives,Ahinoam and Abigail; and he dwelt in Gath.But when Saul heard this, he took no farthercare about sending to him, or going after him,because he had been twice, in a manner,caught by him, while he was himself endea­vouring to catch him. However, David hadno mind to continue in the city of Gath, butdesired the king, that, since he had receivedhim with such humanity, he would grant him * 1 Sam. xxvi. 23. t This farther account is not, I think, found in Jose-phus's present works.J A year and four months, in the Hebrew and Septua- another favour, and bestow upon him someplace in that country for his habitation, forhe was ashamed, by living in the city, to begrievous and burdensome to him. So Achishgave him a certain village, called Ziklag,which David and his sons were fond of whenhe was king, and reckoned it to be their pe­culiar inheritance. But about those matterswe shall give the reader farther informationfelsewhere.—Now the time that David dweltin Ziklag, in the land of the Philistines, wasfourJ months and twenty days. And now heprivately attacked these Geshurites andAmalekites, that were neighbours to the Phi­listines, and laid waste their country; andtook much prey of their beasts and camels;and then returned home. But David ab­stained from the men; as fearing they shoulddiscover him to king Achish. Yet did hesend part of the prey to him as a free gift.And when the king inquired whom they hadattacked, when they brought away the prey,he said, those that lay to the south of the Jews,and inhabited in the plain: whereby he per­suaded Achish to approve of what he haddone; for he hoped that David had foughtagainst his own nation, and that now he shouldhave him for his servant all his life-time; andthat he would stay in his country.j) CHAP. XIV. of saul's application to a necromantic woman toraise dp the soul of samuel; and of the death ofhimself and his sons, upon the overthrow of thehebrews in battle. ABOUT the same time, the Philistines re­solved to make war against the Israel­ites, and sent to all their confederates thatthey would go along with them to the war toReggan, near the city Shunem, whence theymight gather themselves together, and suddenly attack the Hebrews. Then did Achish,the king of Gath, desire David to assist themwith his armed men against the Hebrews.This he readily promised; and said, that thetime was now come wherein he might requitehim for his kindness and hospitality. So theking promised to make him the keeper of his gint. See 1 Sam. xxvii. 7. and xxix. 3. though the wordsare not very plain, even in them.II 1 Sam. xxvii. 12.