OCR Output aN. 277.] 429 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sian and Titus: who although they had beenat a great deal of pains in the war againstthe Jews, and were exasperated against thembecause they did not deliver up their wea­pons, but continued the war to the very last;yet did they not take away any of the privi­leges belonging to them as citizens; butrestrained their anger, and overcame theprayers of the Alexandrians and Antiochians,who were a very powerful people: insomuchthat they did not yield to them, neither outof their favour to these people, nor out oftheir old grudge at those whose" wicked op­position they had subdued in the war. Norwould they alter any of the ancient favours granted to the Jews: but said, that those whoad borne arms against them, and foughtthem, had suffered punishment already; andthat it was not just to deprive those that hadnot offended of the privileges they enjoyed. We also know, that Marcus Agrippa wasof the like disposition towards the Jews. Forthe people of Ionia were very angry at them,and besought Agrippa, that they, and theyonly, might have those privileges of citizens,which Antiochus, the grandson of Seleucus,who by the Greeks was called* "the God,"had bestowed on them; and desired that ifthe Jews were to be joint partakers withthem, they might be obliged to worship thegods they themselves worshipped; but whenthese matters were brought to the trial, theJews prevailed, and obtained leave to makeuse of their own customs, and this under thepatronage of Nicolaus of Damascus. ForAgrippa gave sentence, that "he could notinnovate. And if any one hath a mind toknow this matter accurately, let him perusethe hundred and twenty-third, and hundredand twenty-fourth books of the history of thisNicolaus. Now as to this determination ofAgrippa, it is not to be admired; for thattime our nation had not made war againstthe Romans. But one may well be astonishedat the generosity of Vespasian and Titus; that after so great wars and contests whichthey had with us, they should use such mode-"ration. But I will now return to that part ofmy history, whence I made the present di­gression. It happened in the reign off Antiochusthe Great, who ruled over all Asia, that theJews, as well as the inhabitants of Coelesyriajsuffered greatly; and their land was sorelyharassed. For while he was at war withPtolemyJ Eupator, and with his son, who wascalled Epiphanes, it fell out, that these na­tions were equally sufferers, both when hewas beaten and when he defeated the others.So that they were like a ship in a storm,which is tossed by the Waves on both sides:and just thus as they were in their situationin the middle between Antiochus's prosperity,and its change to adversity. But at lengthwhen Antiochus had beaten Ptolemy, he seiz­ed upon Judea. And when Philopator wasdead, his son sent a great army under Scopas,the general of his forces, against the inhabi­tants of Coelesyria: who took many of theircities, and in particular our nation; whichwhen he fell upon them, went over to him.Yet was it not long afterward when Antiochusovercame Scopas, in a battle fought at thefountains of Jordan; and destroyed a greatpart of his army. But afterward, when An-tiochus subdued those cities of Coelesyriawhich Scopas had gotten into his possession,and Samaria with them; the Jews, of theirown accord, went over to him, and receivedhim into Jerusalem: and gave plentiful pro­vision to all his army, and to his elephants:and readily assisted him when he besiegedthe garrison which was in the citadel of Je­rusalem. Wherefore Antiochus thought itbut just to requite the Jews' diligence andzeal in his service. So he wrote 'to the gene­rals of his armies, and to his friends; andgave testimony to the good behaviour of theJews towards him; and informed them whatrewards he had resolved to bestow on them to the Jews and other conquered nations, afford us a verygood reason why Almighty God, upon the rejection ofthe Jews for their wickedness, chose them for his people;and first established Christianity in that empire. Ofwhich matter, see Constitut. Apost. V. 90. and Euseb. ap.Prim. Christ. Revived, III. page 456, 457, and JosephusXIV.10.XVI.il. * That this Antiochus was Called Avtiox^ ©fos, orAntiochus the god, by the Milesians, see Appian Syriac. p. 210, quoted in the notes on this place. t Of this Antiochus the Great, and his wars with Pto­lemy Philopator, and Ptolemy Epiphanes, Spanheim andHudson bid us here consult Polybius V. 85, and the Ex-cerpta out of Polybius, published by Valesius, page 70,-77, 79, and Hieronymus in Daniel xi. But note, thatthose parts of Polybius's XVIth book that are quotedpresently by Josephus, are lost. J Or rather Philopator. 4. A 1»