OCR Output 16 INTRODUCTION. regions, as if the part which we cultivate was not sufficiently boun­tiful and fertile. But all this time we take very little pains insearching for remedies; for how few persons there are who diginto the earth for the purpose of procuring medicines. She has,indeed, with her accustomed kindness and liberality, given us onthe surface whatever is necessary for this purpose. It is what shehas concealed from us, what is sunk below the surface, and is ofslow growth, that urges us downwards, and drives us to the lowerregions. When the mind ranges abroad, we are led to inquirewhat will be the end of this rage for exhausting the earth, andhow far avarice will finally penetrate. How innocent, how happy,how truly delightful would life be, if we were anxious to obtainnothing but what is to be procured above ground, and only pos­sessed what lies ready to our hands! 2. OF GOLD. Gold is dug up from the earth, and near it is found chryso-colla,3 which, from its position, may seem more valuable than itactually is. It was not enough for us to have discovered oneplague for our lives, but that we must likewise set a price upon thedross of gold.4 While avarice was searching for silver, it wasthought a great advantage to have discovered minium,5 and tofind out a use for this red earth. What a spirit of prodigality!In how many ways have we increased the value of things! Weemploy the art of painting for this purpose, and we have ren­dered even gold and silver more costly by chasing it. Man haslearned how to rival nature. Art has been promoted even by theincitements to vice; our drinking vessels are so ornamented as toadminister to our lusts.6 These things were, however, aftersome time, thrown aside and despised; gold and silver becametoo common. From this same earth we also procure murr-hine 7 and crystalline vessels, and these are valued the more on 3 ChrysocoUa is more fully described in sec. 26. 4 "Auri sanies." 5 Minium is described in sec 36. 6 It would appear that the author here refers both to the art of chasing;i. e. forming figures in relief on the metal, and also to the custom of givingparticular forms to the vessels. This is evident from Juvenal; Sat. ii.1.95. 1 Murrhina are described in book xxxvii. sec. 8; they were probablyonyxes or opals; perhaps the term was not confined to these substances,