OCR Output 326 ROMAN EMPIRE. terprise.' The Moslems were discouraged: they allegedthe want of money, or horses, or provisions; die seasonof harvest, and the intolerable heat of the summer: Hellis much hotter, said the indignant prophet. He dis­dained to compel their service; but on his return he ad­monished the most guilty, by an excommunication offifty days. Their desertion enhanced the merit of Abu-beker, Othman, and the faithful companions who devotedtheir lives and fortunes; and Mahomet displayed his ban­ner at the head of ten thousand horse and twenty thou­sand foot. Painful indeed was the distress of the march:lassitude and thirst were aggravated by the scorchingand pestilential winds of the desert: ten men rode byturns on the same camel; and they were reduced to theshameful necessity of drinking the water from the bellyof that useful animal. In the midway, ten days' journeyfrom Medina and Damascus, they reposed near the groveand fountain of Tabuc. Beyond that place Mahometdeclined the prosecution of the war: he declared him­self satisfied with the peaceful intentions; he was moreprobably daunted by the martial array of the emperorof the east. But the active and intrepid Caled spreadaround the terror of his name; and the prophet receivedthe submission of the tribes and cities from the Euphratesto Ailah, at the head of the Red sea. To his Christiansubjects, Mahomet readily granted the security of theirpersons, the freedom of their trade, the property of theirgoods, and the toleration of their worship.11 The weak­ 'The expedition to Tabuc is recorded by our ordinary historians, Abulfed* (Vit.Moharn. p. 123—12T.) and Gagnier; (Vie de Mahomet, torn. 3. p. 147—163.)Imt we have the advantage of appealing to the original evidence of the K oran,(c. 9. p. 154. 165.) with Sale's learned and rational notes. t The Dij'lomu tecurilatit Aitemibut, is attested by Ahmed Ben Joseph, ami tb0author Li&ri Sfleudorum; (Gagnier, Not. ad Abulfedam, p. 125.) but Abulfedahimself, as well as Elmacin, (Hist. Saracen, p. 11-.; though he own.-, Mahomet'sregard for the Christians, (p. I3-) only mentions peace and tribute. In the \t-ar1630, Sionlta published at raris the text and version of Mahomet's patent in fa­vour of tin- Christiana, which was admitted; and reprobated by the opposite twtaof Salmasius andGrotius. (Bayle, MAUoIIET, Kern. AA.) Hottinger doubts of itsauthenticity; (Hist. Orient* p. 237.) Renaudot urges the content of the Maho­metans. - (Hist. Patriarch. Alex. p. 169.)butMofeheim(Hist.Ecotes.p. i44.)ahe»»the futility of their opinion, and inclines to believe it spurious. Yet Abulpharagiu*