OCR Output 316 MEGARA. MEGARA. Spratt further supposes that he has discovered re­mains of the ancient causeway. "Between the}j:im» of the hill on its north side, and the oppositebank of the dry bed of a former river, there arethree platforms of heavy buildings, one of whichlies immediately at the foot of the hill, another onthe edge of the opposite bank, and the third nearlycentral ; and a* the course of that former river-bedclearly and indisputably passes between them, it ismare than probable that the bridge of communica­tion may be recognised in these ruins.* He alsosays, " that distinct remains of an ancient mole areto be seen extending from the south-eastern end ofthe hill, and curving to the eastward, so as to haveformed a harbour between the hill and those ruins,"which is in accordance with the statement of Strabo,that the port of Nisaca was funned by the promon­tory of Minoa. IV. Territory of Megara. Megaris occupied the greater part of the largeIsthmus, which extends from the foot of Mt. Cithae-ron to the Acrocorinthus, and which connects North­ern Greece with the Peloponnesus. The southernpart of this Isthmus, including the Isthmus properlyso called, belonged to Corinth; but the boundariesof Megaris and Corinth differed at an earlier and alater period. Originally Megaris extended as faras Crommyon on the Saronic, and Thermae on theCorinthian, gulfs, and a pillar was set up near theIsthmus proper, marking the boundaries betweenPeloponnesus and Ionia; but subsequently this pillarwas removed, and the territory of Corinth reached asfar as the Scirunian rocks and the other passes of theGeraneian mountains. (Strab. ix. pp. 392, 393.)Towards the N., Megaris was separated from Boeotiaby Mt. Cithaeron, and towards the E. and NE. fromAttica by some high land, which terminates on thewest side of the bay of Eleusis in two summits,formerly called Kerata or The Horxs (t& K<-para), and now Kandtli, (Strab. ix. p. 395; Diod.xiiL 65; Plut. Them, 13.) Here there is an im­mense deposit of conthiferous limestone, which Pau-sanias also noticed (i. 44. § 6). The river lapis,Which flowed into the sea a little to the W. of theHorns, was the boundary of Megaris and Attica.[Attica, p. 323, a.] The extreme breadth ofMegaris from Pagae to Nisaea is estimated byStrabo (viii. p. 334) at 120 stadia; and, accordingto the calculation of Clinton, the area of the countryis 143 square miles. Megaris is a rugged and mountainous country,and contains no plain, except the one in which itscapital, Megara, was situated. This plain was calledthe " White Plain" (to Atvtthv wtiiov, Schol. mlHam, Otl v. 333, ed. Mai; Etymol. M. s. v. A«i/-k6$*o), and is the same as Cuioma (KtpwA/o,Diod. xi. 79), which produced the Creta Chnolia orfullers' earth, and which Leake erroneously regardsas a place (Xurthtrn Greece, vol. u. p. 413). Themain range of Alt. Cithaeron runs from W. to E-,forming the boundary between Boeotia and Attica;but it is also prolonged southwards along the shoresof the Corinthian gulf, and gradually rises into anew chain, which stretches across Megaris fromW. to E., parallel to ML Cithaeron. This chain ishighest on the western side, where it attains theheight of 4217 feet (Paris), and gradually sinksdown on the eastern side towards the Saronic gulf.On its western side it runs out into the promontoryAkuU'Ljucctls {MyiwKayKTos, Aescb. Again, 303, with Schol.), and also into those of Outusand Hkraeum in the Corinthian territory. [Co-RiNTiius, p. 685.] On its eastern side the ubudof Salamis and the surrounding rocks are only acontinuation of this chain. The mountains wencalled Gkiiankia in antiquity (!>?*>*:«, That L105; Pans. i. 40. § 7), and are said to hare re­ceived this name because, in the deluee of Dcucahor,Megarus, the son of Zeua and a Sit nomas armpit,was led by the cries of cranes {yipavoi) to tikerefuge upon their summit. (Pans. L c) Towardsthe south the Geraneian mountains sink down iatethe plain of the Isthmus, while to the south of lb*Isthmus there rises another chain of mountaincalled the Oneian. Strabo (viii. p. 380) cctxfrundathe Geraneia with the Oneia; and erroneously repre­sents the latter extending as far as Boeotia andCithaeron. His error has misled many modem wri­ters, who, in consequence, speak of the Geraneia asa portion of the Oneia. (Curtius, Ptl>fK*uv*M,vol. i. p. 25.) The Geraneian mountains are almost, if not en­tirely, calcareous. They form the true boundary ofNorthern Greece, and rise above the Isthmus </Corinth like a vast wall from sea to sea. Threeroads lead across these mountains into Peloponnesus.One runs from the western coast of Megaru, aervsthe rocky peninsula of Perakhora, the ancient Pev-raeum of Corinth, down to the Corinthian gulf. Hwas the road by which armies frequently mar bedfrom Peloponnesus into Northern Greece, bat inordinary intercourse was not much used on accuortof its length. The second road passes throng b thecentre of the Geraneia, and is called the road of thegreat Dervenia from the narrow pass (Turk. Ar*rent), which leads between two masses of rock,and where guards were stationed in Turkish times.According to Gell the (op of this pass was anciruilyfortified with a wall. The same writer says that,from the top of this pass to Corinth the distance ■•8 hours 37 minutes, and to Megara 2 hoars 33minutes. This road is now little used. The thirdroad, which leads along the eastern coast of Me^sm.is the shortest way between Megara and Corinth,and therefore has been the chief line of cotnmuro-cation between Peloponnesus and Northern Greecefrom the earliest times to the present day. Thisroad, soon after leaving Megara, runs for semmlmiles along a narrow ledge or terrace, cut in tfc*rock half-way up the sides of the cliffs. Oo hi*right hand the traveller lias the preci|>itotn rork,while on his left it descends perjendicularry to ib*sea, which is 600 or 700 feet beneath him. 1h*road, which is now narrow and impracticable forcarriages, was made wide enough by the enijrr?**Hadrian for two carriages to pass abreast. Frotn U-ehigher level the road descends to the brink of the waferby a most rugged and precipitous path rut bet*«*nwalls of rock. This pass is the celebrated Scincuuirocks of autfquity, now called Kake-tkaJa, or bsiladder (At Z«fip*»W8«* virpat, 'Strab. tx. p. 991;at 'ZxtprnviUft and al 2*ipolo«T, Polyb. xvi 1*;ImlfML'voi ajtroi, Eur. UippaL 1208; the rmlitself h XKtpwvls oWt, Herod, viii 71; Seinau*saxa, Plin. iv. 7. a. 11). According to a Mejrsnsntradition, these rocks derived their name from Sei-ron, a polcmarch of the Mcgarians, who was thefirst to make a footpath along tlie rucks (Psaa.i. 44. § 6); but, according to the more ciaximm tra­dition, they were so called from the robber S.-ina*.Near the southern end of the pass, where the raai