OCR Output STYLE OF TACITUS. 11 quaerere instead of acquirere, Ann. I., 36; instead of conquirere,Ann. VI., 1; instead of exquirere, Ann. II., 53; instead otrequirere= desiderate, Hist. IV., 6. Hence this exchange is usually madewith a loss of definiteness, but with advantage in regard to brevity.I will mention a few examples, unique indeed, but yet allowed byall. Hist. I., 84, congestu lapidum stare = constare.—Ann. XIV., 21,struere = destrttere.—Ann. XV., 14, cernerent = decernerent.—G., 2,tristem cullu = ad incolendum.—Ann. XIV., 4, pectori haerens =irihaerens.—Hist. ILL, 57, miscebant = immiscebani.—Hist. HI., 25,pulsos = impulsos.—Hist. I., 35, sistens = obsistens.—Ann. XV.,50, cepisse = suscepisse. In many other places I have restored thisusage from the MSS., where other editors have not ventured to doso: e. g., Agr. 4, Sublime el rectum ingenium, i. e., erectum.—Hist.IV., 20, Omnibus porlis rumpunt, where the common editions haveerumpunt.—Hist. IV., 81, Postremo aestimari a medicis jubet, whereErnesti has preferred existimari.—Hist. IV., 48, Si pauca suprapetiero ab initio, Edd. repetiero. Perhaps also cursaturus should bepreferred to incursaturus in A. 1. 5. The dignity of the Latin language is impaired by nothing morethan by a frequent use of particles, pronouns, or auxiliary verbs; onthe other hand it is increased when nouns follow nouns or verbs di­rectly, so that the sentence seems to consist of mere solid and weightymatter. Thus originate those sentences which strike our ears, andthose of the Greeks, as too cumbrous and heavy, since there is nopause allowed after the separate parts and words. But the sameexpressions had a very pleasing sound to the Romans, and especiallyto Tacitus, as the following: Agrippina aequi impatiens, dominandiavida, virilibus curis feminarum vitia exuerat, Ann. VI., 25. In thisexample, whatever is heavy was produced spontaneously withoutany design or study. But weight and stateliness may be promotedby an intentional effort of the writer. With this view Tacitus omitsthe more unimportant words oftener, and with more studious design,than any other -writer. And first he refrains from the use of prepo­sitions, satisfied with the power of the case alone. Hence ab or exis omitted contrary to common usage. Hist. V., 23, Commeatus Galliaadventantes, cf. III., 15.—Agr. 18, Cujus possessions revocatum.—G. 14, Exigunt principis sui libhralitate illum bellatorem equum.—Hist. I., 55, Non tamen quisquam in modumconcionis aut suggestulocutus.—III., 29, Cum superjacta tela tesludine laberentur. Hence I have restored the shorter reading of the manuscripts inAgr. 19 : Ut civitates proximis hibernis in remota et avia deferren!,and Hist. HI., 74: Clamore proximis orto. In both places the editionshave a proximis.