OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 163 Joseph, the people grew seditious, on account of his sons; For'whereas the elders made war against Hyrcanus, who was theyoungest of Joseph's sons, the multitude was divided, but thegreater part joined with the elders in this war; as did Simonthe high priest, by reason he was of kin to them. However,Hyrcanus determined not to return to Jerusalem any more,but seated himself beyond Jordan; and was at perpetual warwith the Arabians, and slew many of them, and took manyof them captives. He also erected a strong castle, and builtit entirely of white stone to the very roof; and had ani­mals of a prodigious magnitude engraven upon it. He alsodrew round it a great and deep canal of water. He also madecaves of many furlongs in length, by hollowing a rock that wasover against him: and then he made large rooms in it, some forfeasting, and some for sleeping and living in. He introducedalso a vast quantity of waters which ran along it, and which werevery delightful and ornamental in the court. But still he madethe entrances at the mouth of the caves so narrow, that no morethan one person could enter by them at once: And the reasonwhy he built them after that manner was a good one; it wasfor his own preservation, lest he should be besieged by his bre­thren and run the hazard of being caught by them. Moreover,he built courts of greater magnitude than ordinary, which headorned with vastly large gardens. And when he had broughtthe place to this state, he named it Tyre. This place is betweenArabia and Judea, beyond Jordan, not far from the country ofHeshbon. And he ruled over those parts for seven years, evenall the time that Seleucus was king of Syria. But when he wasdead his brother Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes, tookthe kingdom. Ptolemy also the king of Egypt, died, who wasbesides called Epiphanes. He left two sons, and both young inage; the elder of which was called Philometer, and the youngestPhyscon. As for Hyrcanus, when he saw that Antiochus hada great army, and feared lest he should be caught by him, andbrought to punishment for what he had done to the Arabians,he ended his life, by slaying himself with his own hand; whileAntiochus seized upon all his substance. VOL. II. X 19