OCR Output MYLAE. 385 MYLASSA. Uh river Longanus, on the banks of which Ihe ac­tion ns fought, cannot be identified with certainty. [LoXGAKUS.] It is probable that, even after the Roman conquestof Sicily, Mylae continued to be a dependency ofMessina, as long as that city enjoyed its privilegedcondition as a " foederata civitas: " hence no mentionis fonnd of its name in the Verrine orations of Cicero;but in the time uf Pliny it had acquired the ordinarymunicipal privileges of the Sicilian towns. (Plin. iii.8. s. 14; Ftol. iii. 4. § 2.) It never, however, seemsto have been a place of importance, and was at thisperiod wholly eclipsed by the neighbouring colony ofTyndaiis. Bat the strength of its position as afortress caused it in the middle ages to be an objectof attention to the Norman kings of Sicily, as wellas to the emperor Frederic II.; and though nowmuch neglected, it is still a military position of import-tance. The modern city of MUazzo is a tolerablynourishing place, with about 8000 inhabitants; it isbait for the most part on a low sandy neck of land,connecting the peninsula, which is bold and rocky,with the mainland. But the old town, which pro­bably occupied the same site with the ancient city,stood on a rocky hill, forming the first rise of therocky ridjjc that constitutes the peninsula or head­land of Capo di Alilazzo. The modern castle on ahill of greater elevation, commanding both the upperand lower town, in prubably the site of the ancientAcropolis. (Thuc iii. 90; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 103,104; Hoare's Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 215.) The promontory of Mylae, stretching out abruptlyinto the sea, forms the western boundary of a bayof considerable extent, affording excellent anchorage.This bay was memorable in ancient history as theKent of two great naval actions. The first of thesewas toe victory obtained by the Roman fleet underC. Duillius, over that of the Carthaginians in theFirst Panic War, B. c. 260, in which the Romanconsul, by means of the engiues called Corvi (thenused (or the first time), totally defeated the enemy'sfleet, and took fifty of their ships. (Pol. i. 23.) Morethan two centuries later, it was in the same bay thatA»ripp», who commanded the fleet of Octavian,dafeaied that of Sextus Pompeius, B. c. 36. Agrippaadvanced from the island of Hieru, where his fleetbad been before stationed, while the ships of Pompeylined the shores of the bay of Mylae. After theirdefeat they took refuge at the mouths of the nume­rous small rivers, or rather mountain torrents, whichhere descend into the sea. After this battle, Agrippanude himself master of Mylae as well as Tyiidaris;»r<i tome time afterwards again defeated the fleet<i Pompeius in a second and more decisive action,between Mvlae and a place called Naulochus. Thelatter name is otherwise unknown, but it seems toLave been situated somewhere in the neighbourhood«f Cape Rasoculmo, the Phalacrian promontory ofHuleiny. (Appian, B. C. v. 195—109, 115—122;J>*o Cass. xlix. 2—11; Veil. Pat. ii. 79; Suet.Avg. 16.) In the account of this campaign Appian speaksof a small town named ArtemisiI'M, which is no­ticed also by Dion Cassias, and must have been situ-*Ui a little to the E. of Mylae, but is not mentionedb; any of the geographers. (Appian, B. C. v. 116;Dwi Cam. xlix. 8.) It is, however, obviously thesame place alluded to by Silius ltalicus as the""Jei Faeelina Dianae" (Sil. Ital. xiv. 260), andtailed by Lucilius, in a fragment of his satires,"FartliU tempU Dianae." (Lucil. Sal. iii. 13.) Tot. n. Vibius Sequester also mentions a river which hecalls Phackunus, and describes as"juxta Pe-loridem, confinis templo Dianae." (Vib. Seq. p. 16.)It is, however, obvious, from Appian, that the templewas not situated in the neighbourhood of Pelorus,but at a short distance from Mylae, though theprecise site cannot be determined. It was desig­nated by popular tradition as the spot where tbo-sacred cattle of the Sun had been kept, and wereslaughtered by the companions of Ulysses. (Appian,Lc; Plin. ii. 98. s. 101.) The Mons Thokax,mentioned by Diodorus in his account of the battleof the Longanus (Diod. xxii. 13), must have beenone of the underfalls of the Neptunian Mountains,which throughout this part of Sicily descend close tothe sea-shore; but the particular mountain meant iswholly uncertain. [E. H. B.] MYLAE. Pliny (iv. 12) speaks of two inlandsof this name, lying off the coast of Crete. Theybelonged to the group of three islands oft" Fhalasarna(Kutri), called by the Anonymous Coast-describerJusAGOKA, Mkse, Myle (Stadiasm). Petalidhais the name of the northernmost of the three littleislands; the second, opposite to which is Kaviisi, iscalled Megalonesi, in spite of its very moderate size;and the third Prasonesi. (Pashlev, Trav. vol. ii. p.61.) [E. B.J.] MYLAE (MvAtu: Eth. MoAo?oi), a town of Per-rhaebia in Thessaly, taken by Perseus in B. c. 171.(Liv. xlii. 54; Steph. B. s. t>.) As Livy describesit as a strong place near Cyretiae, it is placed byLeake at Dhanuiti, " which is not only strong initself, but very important, as commanding the passof the Titaresius, leading into Pcrrhaebia from thePelasgiotis." (NorUtern Greece, vol. iv. p. 311.) MYLAS, or MYLE (MiiAos), a promontory onthe coast of Cilicia, between cape Aphrodisias inthe west and cape Sarpedon in the east. On or closeto it was a small town of the same name (Plin.v. 22; Stadiasm. Mar. Mag. §§ 165,166.) As theStadiusmus calls Mylas a cape and chersonese,Leake (Asia Minor, p. 205) is inclined to identifyit with cape Cavuliere, which answers exactly tothat description. [L. S.] MYLASSA or MYLASA (t4 Mu'Aaoo-o, or Mu-Aao-a: Eth. MoAatreiis), the most important town ofCaria, was situated in a fertile plain, in the west ofthe country, at the foot of a mountain, abounding inbeautiful white marble, of which its buildings andtemples were constructed. Hence the city was ex­ceedingly beautiful on account of its white marbletemplesand porticoes, and many wondered that so finoa city was built at the foot of a steep overhangingmountain. The two most splendid temples in thecity were those of ZeusOsogos and Zeus Labrandenus,the latter of which stood in the neighbouring villageof Labranda, on a hill, and was connected with thecity by a road called the sacred, 60 stadia in length,along which the processions used to go to the temple.The principal citizens of Mylassa were invested withthe office of priests of Zeus for life. The city waavery ancient, and is said to have been the birthplaceand residence of the Carian kings before Hulkar-nassus was raised to the rank of a capital. Its.nearest point on the coast was Physcus, at a dis­tance of 80 stadia, which was the port of Mylassa;though Stephanus B. calls Passala its port-town.(Strab. xiv. p. 658, &c; Aeschyl. t'ragm. 48, whereit is called Mylas; Steph. B. s. v.; Herod, i.171. Ptol. v. 2. §20; Plin. v. 29; Pans. viii. 10.§ 3.) ' The splendour of Mylassa is attested by an c c