OCR Output ioo THE DECLINE AND FALL their hands to conduct him to the senate-house, that the military-consent might be ratified by the civil authority,and by the This important night was now far spent; with the dawn of day, senate, A. D. 193. and the commencement or the new year, the senators expected aistjanua.y. fummons to attend an ignominious ceremony. In spite of all remon足strances, even of those of his creatures, who yet preserved any re足gard for prudence or decency, Commodus had resolved to pass thenight in the gladiators school, and from thence to take possession ofthe consulship, in the habit and with the attendance of that infa足mous crew. On a sudden, before the break of day, the senate wascalled together in the temple of Concord, to meet the guards, andto ratify the election of a new emperor. For a few minutes theyfat in silent suspence, doubtful of their unexpected deliverance, andsuspicious of the cruel artifices of Commodus; but when at lengththey were assured that the tyrant was no more, they resigned themrselves to all the transports of joy and indignation. Pertinax, whomodestly represented the meanness of his extraction, and pointed outseveral noble senators more deserving than himself of the empire,was constrained by their dutiful violence to ascend the throne, andreceived all the titles of Imperial power, confirmed by the mostThe memory sincere vows of fidelity. The memory of Commodus was brandedmodus de- with eternal infamy. The names of tyrant, of gladiator, of publicenemy, resounded in every corner of the house. They decreed intumultuous votes, that his honours should be reversed, his titleserased from the public monuments, his statues thrown down, hisbody dragged with a hook into the stripping room of the gladiators,to satiate the public fury; and they expressed some indignationagainst those officious servants who had already presumed to screenhis remains from the justice of the senate. But Pertinax couldnot refuse those last rites to the memory of Marcus, and the tearsof his first protector Claudius Pompeianus, who lamented the cruel fate dared infa足mous 1 1