OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 41 the consul in the camp. Who did not plainly perceivethat the dictator's being a plebeian was the defectwhich the augurs had discovered?' These, and otherarguments, were urged in vain by the tribunes: theaffair ended in an interregnum. At last, after theelections had been adjourned repeatedly, on one pre­text or another, the fourteenth interrex, Lucius jEmi-lius, elected consuls Caius Petilius and Lucius Papi-rius Mugillanus, or Cursor, as I find him named in someannals. [A.U.C. 429. B.C. 323.] 24. Historians relate that, in this year, Alexandriain Egypt was founded; and that Alexander, king ofEpirus, being slain by a Lucanian exile, verified, inthe circumstances of his death, the prediction of Jupiterof Dodona. At the time when he was invited into Italyby the Tarentines he received a caution from that ora­cle, to beware of the Acherusian waters, and the cityPandosia, for there were fixed the limits of bis destiny:for that reason he made the greater haste to pass overto Italy, in order to be at as great a distance as pos­sible from the city Pandosia in Epirus, and the riverAcheron, which, after flowing through Molossis, winsinto the lakes called Infernal, and is received into theThesprotian gulf. But, as it frequently happens thatmen, by endeavoring to shun their fate, run directlyon it, after having often defeated the armies of Brut-tium and Lucania, and taken Heraclea, a colony of theTarentines, Potentia, and Metapontum from the Luca-nians, Terina from the Bruttians, and several othercities of the Messapians and Lucanians; and havingsent into Epirus three hundred illustrious families,whom he intended to keep as hostages, he posted histroops on three hills, which stood at a small distancefrom each other, not far from the city Pandosia, andclose to the frontiers of the Bruttians and Lucanians, inorder that he might thence make incursions into everypart of the enemy's country. At that time he keptabout his person two hundred Lucanian exiles, whomhe considered as faithful attendants, but whose fidelity,according to the general disposition of people of thatdescription, was ever ready to follow the changes of