OCR Output 348 MKTArONTUM. METAUBCS. ticular honours to Aristeas. who was said to hareappeared in their city 340 years after he had dis­appeared from Cyzicua. They erected to him astatue in the middle of the furum, with an altar toApollo surrounded bj a grove of laurels. (Herod, iv.15; Allien, xiii. p. 605, c.) From their coins theywould appear also to have paid heroic honours toLeucippus, as the founder of their city. (Millingen,I. c. p. 24.) Strabo tells us, as a proof of theirPylian origin, that they continued to perform sacri­fices to the Neleidae. (Strah. vi. p. 264.) The it'- and remains of Mctapontum have beencarefully examined by the Due de Luynes, who hasillustrated them in a special work (Mctaponte, fol.Paris, 1833). It is remarkable that no trace existsof the ancient walls or the theatre of which Pausa-nias speaks. The most important of the still existingmonuments is a temple, the remains of which occupya slight elevation near the right bank of the Bra­danus, about 2 miles from its mouth. They arcnow known as the Tavola dti PaUidini. Fifteencolumns are still standing, ten on one side and fiveon the other; but the Uvo ends, as well as the wholeof the entablature above the architrave and the wallsof the cella, have wholly disappeared. The archi­tecture is of the Doric order, but its proportions arelighter and more slender than those of the celebratedtemples of Pacstum: and it is in all probability oflater date. Some remains of another temple, butprostrate, and a mere heap of ruins, are visiblenearly 2 miles to the S. of the preceding, and a shortdistance from the month of the Biadanus. Thisspot, called the Chieta di Santone, appears to markthe site of the city itself, numerous foundations ofbuildings having been discovered all around it. Itmay be doubted whether the more distant templewas ever included within the walls; but it is im­possible now to trace the extent of the ancient city.The Torre di Mare, now the only inhabited spot onthe plain, derives its name from a castellated edificeot the middle ages; it is situated above 1) milefrom the sea, and the same distance from the riverJiasiento, the ancient Casucntus. Immediately op­posite to it, on the sea-shore, is a small salt-waterbisin or lagoon, now called the Logo di Sta, Ptla-yina. which, though neither deep nor spacious, inall probability foimed the ancient port of Meta-pontum. Mi'tapontum was thus situated between the tworivers Bradanus and Casucntus, and occupied (withits port and appurtenances) a considerable part ofthe intennediate spare. Appian speaks of " a riverbetween Metapontum and Tarentum of the gamename" by which he probably means the Bradanus,which may have been commonly known as the riverof Metapontum. This is certainly tho only riverlarge enough to answer to the description which hegives of the meeting of Octavian and Antony whichtook place on its banks. (Appian, li. C. v. 93, 94.) The coins of Metapontum, as already observed, OOUt or MLTAfOXTfM. are very numerous; and many of the later ones ofvery beautiful workmanship. Those of man an­cient date are of the style called Mease, like theearly coins of Crotona and Sybaris. The one is theannexed figure has on the obverse the head of diehero Leucippus, the founder of the city. But U*more common type on the obverse is the bead ofCeres. [E. H. B-] MKTARIS (Mrrapfr, PtoL ii. 3. § 6), an eatt-ary in Britain; the Walk between Aorfolt andLincolnshire. | i I. - METAURUM (Mdnupos, Stepb. B.), a city oathe W. coast of Bruttium, at the mouth of the riverof the same name. According to Stephanas ofByzantium, it was a colony of the Locrians, batseems never to have risen to any importance: at*)its name is chiefly known because, according to sooeaccounts, it was the birthplace of the poet So-..chorus, who was more generally regarded as a nativeof Himera. (Steph. B. i. v.; Suid. it. !-■.•■■Xopos.) Stephanos erroneously calls it a city ofSicily; but Suidas, who writes the name Malanria,correctly places it in Italy: and there ou be dodoubt that both mean the town at the month of theMetaurus, which is called by Latin writers Mi-tanrum. Solinus ascribes its foundation to tl*Zanclaeans. Mela mentions it as if it were a stulexisting town; bat Strabo speaks only of the riverMetaurus, with an anchorage or roadstead of thesame name: and Pliny also notices the river (" Me­taurus amnis ") without any mention of a town ofthe name. (Strab. vi. p. 256; Plin. iii. S. a. 10,Mel. ii. 4. § 8: Solin. 2. § II.) [E. H. B ] METAURUS (MeVaupoj). 1. A river of I'mUia,flowing into the Adriatic sea, near f'ano, and one ofthe most considerable of the numerous stream* whi:hin this part of Italy descend from the eastern decli­vity of the Apennines into the Adriatic It is stillcalled the iletauro ot Metro; and has ill sources isthe high group of Apennines called the Monte Serome,from whence it has a course of between 40 and 50miles to the sea. It flows by Fottombrone (ForumSempronii), and throughout the latter part of itscourt* was followed by the great highroad of tl*Flaminian Way, which descended the valley of tawCaniiano, one of the principal tributaries of lasMetaurus, and emerged into the main valley of thelatter river a few miles below the pass of lntmasaor // Furlo. Its mouth is about 2 miles S. atFmmm(Fanum Fortnnae), but has no port; and the riveritself is justly described by Silios Italicna a* aviolent and torrent-like stream. (Strab. v. p. 237;Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Mel. Li. 4. § 5; Si! ItaLviii. 449;Lucan, ii. 405.) The Metaurus is celebrated in history for the greatbattle which was fought on its banks in B. c 8t)7,between Hasdruhal, the brother of Hannibal, and theRoman consuls C. Claudius Nero and 31. Livius, inwhich the former was totally defeated and alam,—abattle that may be considered as the real twnasj-point of the Second Punic War, and therefore one */the most important in history. (Liv. i\ 46—51; Oros. iv. 18; Eutrop. iii. 18; Viet, sir Yir. 13.48; Hot. Cam. iv. 4. 38; Sil. lUL rii 4*6.) Un­fortunately our knowledge of the topngraphy anddetails of the battle is extremely imperfect. Betwe learn from Livy, the only author who has leftus a connected narrative of the operations, that 1Ll.ivius was encamped with his army under the waistof Sena (i. e. Sena dallies, now Siniynylm). aaalliasdrubal at a short distance from him. But as