OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 415 dom, that he might obtain it for himself unjustly.1 For thiscause, then, it was that Onias undertook a war against himon Cleopatra's account; nor would he desert that trust theroyal family had reposed in him in their distress. Accord­ingly, God gave a remarkable attestation to his righteous pro­cedure; for when Ptolemy Physco2 had the presumption tofight against Onias's army, and had caught all the Jews thatwere in the city [Alexandria,] with their children and wives,and exposed them naked and in bonds to his elephants, thatthey might be trodden upon and destroyed; and when he hadmade those elephants drunk for that purpose, the event provedcontrary to his preparations ; for these elephants left the Jewswho were exposed to them, and fell violently upon Physco'sfriends, and slew a great number of them: nay, after this,Ptolemy saw a terrible ghost, which prohibited his hurtingthose men: his very concubine whom he loved so well, somecall her Ithaca, and others Irene, making supplications tohim, that he would not perpetrate so great a wickedness. Sohe complied with her request, and repented of what he eitherhad already done or was about to do; whence it is well knownthat the Alexandrian Jews do with good reason celebrate thisday, on the account that they had thereon been vouchsafedsuch an evident deliverance from God. However, Apion, thecommon calumniator of men, hath the presumption to accusethe Jews for making this war against Physco, when he oughtto have commended them for the same. This man also makesmention of Cleopatra the last queen of Alexandria, and abusesus, because she was ungrateful to us; whereas he ought tohave reproved her, who indulged herself in all kinds of injus­tice and wicked practices, both with regard to her nearest re­lations and husbands who had loved her, and, indeed, in gen­ 1 Here begins a gre.it defect in the Greek copy; but the old Latin versionfully supplies that defect. * What error is here generally believed to have been committed by our Jo-sephus in ascribing a deliverance of the Jews to the reign of Ptolemy Physco,tho seventh of thoso Ptolemies, which has been universally supposed to havehappened under Ptolemy Philopator, the fourth of them, is no better than agross error of tho moderns, and not of Josephus, as I have fully proved intho Authent. Rec. Tart i. p. liOO-20 J, whither I refer the inquisitive reader.