OCR Output AN. 1531.] Ill ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. afraid lest the enemies should grow insolentupon this victory, and should attack them inorder to gain still greater glory, he resolvedthat it was proper to withdraw the army intothe wilderness, to a farther distance from theCanaanites. So the multitude gave them­selves up again to his conduct; for they weresensible that, without his care, their affairscould not be in a good condition: and hecaused the host to remove, and he went far­ther into the wilderness; as intending thereto let them rest, and not to permit them tofight the Canaanites before God should affordthem a more favourable opportunity. CHAP. II. OF THE SEDITION OF CORAH AND OF THE MULTITUDE AGAINSTMOSES AND AARON, CONCERNING THE PRIESTHOOD. THAT which is usually the case withgreat armies, and especially upon illsuccess, to be hard to be pleased, and go­verned with difficulty, did now befal theJews:* for, being in number six hundredthousand, and by reason of their great multi­tude not readily subject to their governors,even in prosperity, they at this time weremore than usually angry, both against eachother, and against their leader, because ofthe distress they were in, and the calamitiesthey then endured: on which account such asedition overtook them as we have not thelike example either among the Greeks or theBarbarians; by means of this they were indanger of being all destroyed, but were not­withstanding saved by Moses, who would notremember that he had been almost stoned todeath by them. Nor did God neglect to pre­vent their ruin; but notwithstanding the in­dignities they offered their legislator, and thelaws, and their disobedience to the command­ments which he had sent them by Moses, hedelivered them from those terrible calamities-which, without his providential care, hadbeen brought upon them by this sedition: soI will first explain the cause whence this se­dition arose, and then will give an account ofthe sedition itself, as also of what settlementsMoses made for their government after it wasover. * About an. 1512. t Evil example is peculiarly influential, because itstrikes in with the corrupt propensities of human nature.VOL. *-—No. 10. Corah,f a Hebrew of principal account,both by his family and by his wealth, one thatwas also able to speak well, and that couldeasily persuade the people by his speeches,saw that Moses was in an exceeding greatdignity, and was uneasy at it, and envied himon that account: he was of the same tribewith Moses, and of kin to him. He was par­ticularly grieved because he thought he bet­ter deserved that honourable post, as beingmore opulent, and not inferior to him in hisbirth: so he raised a clamour against himamong the Levites, who were of the sametribe, and especially among his kindred, say­ing, that it was a very sad thing that theyshould overlook Moses, while he hunted after,and paved the way to glory for himself, andby ill arts should obtain it under pretence ofGod's command; while, contrary to the laws,he had given the priesthood to Aaron, not bythe common suffrage of the multitude, but byhis own vote, as bestowing dignities in a ty­rannical way upon whom he pleased. Headded, that that concealed way of imposingon them was harder to be borne, than if it hadbeen done by an open force upon them, be­cause he did not only take away their powerwithout their consent, but even while theywere unapprized of his contrivances againstthem; for whosoever is conscious to himselfthat he deserves any dignity, aims to' get itby persuasion, and not by an arrogant methodof violence. But those that believe it impos­sible to obtain those honours justly, make ashew of goodness, and do not introduce force;but by cunning tricks grow wickedly power­ful. That it was proper for the multitude topunish such men, even while they think them­selves concealed in their designs, and notsuffer them to gain strength, till they havethem for their open enemies. "What ac­count," said he, "is Moses able to give whyhe has bestowed the priesthood on Aaron andhis sons? For if God determined to bestowthat honour on one of the tribe of Levi, I ammore worthy of it than he is; as being equalto Moses, by my family, and superior to himboth in riches and in age. But if God haddetermined to bestow it on the eldest tribe,that of Reubel might have it more justly; and When it is set in opposition to good pursuits, it is generallymost prevalent. This easily accounts for the success.ofthe conspiracy of Corah. B.Ff