OCR Output 172 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. manner not wholly neglected, but was solved still moreimperfectly than the former. With the foundation of183. Aquileia (571) the Istrian peninsula came into possessionof the Romans (ii. 196): in part of Epirus and the formerterritory of the lords of Scodra they had already ruled forDalmatians, some considerable time previously. But nowhere did theirdominion reach into the interior; and even on the coast theyexercised scarcely a nominal sway over the inhospitable dis­trict between Istria and Epirus, which, with its wild seriesof mountain-caldrons broken neither by river-valleys norby coast-plains and arranged like scales one above another,and with its chain of rocky islands stretching along thecoast, separates rather than connects Italy and Greece.Around the town of Delmium clustered the confederacy ofthe Delmatians or Dalmatians, whose manners were roughas their mountains. While the neighbouring peoples hadalready attained a high degree of culture, the Dalmatianswere as yet unacquainted with money, and divided their land,without recognizing any special right of property in it,afresh every eight years among the members of the com­munity. Brigandage and piracy were the only nativetrades. These tribes had in earlier times been in looserelations of dependence on the rulers of Scodra, and hadbeen in consequence chastised by the Roman expeditionsagainst queen Teuta (ii. 74) and Demetrius of Pharos(ii. 76); but on the accession of king Genthius they hadrevolted, and had thus escaped the fate which involvedsouthern Illyria in the fall of the Macedonian empire andrendered it permanently dependent on Rome (ii. 302).The Romans were glad to leave the far from attractiveregion to itself. But the complaints of the Roman lllyrians,particularly of the Daorsi, who dwelt on the Narenta to thesoutli of the Dalmatians, and of the inhabitants of theisland of Issa (Lissa), whose continental stations Tragyrium(Trau) and Epetium (near Spalato) suffered severely fromthe natives, compelled the Roman government to despatchan embassy to the latter, and, on receiving the reply thatthe Dalmatians had neither troubled themselves hithertoabout the Romans nor would do so in future, to send thither156. an army in 598 under the consul Gaius Marcius Figulus.Their sub- He penetrated into Dalmatia, but was again driven backjugation. into the Roman territory. It was not till his successorPublius Scipio Nasica took the large and strong town of