OCR Output 383 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. Mercinus also, a city of Edonia, revolted to him uponthe death of Pittacus king of the Edonians, who was killed bythe sons of Goaxis and his own wife Braures. Gapselus soonafter did the same, and Oesyme: They are colonies of theThrasians. These events were owing to the practices ofPerdiccas, who came thither in person immediately afterthe surrender of Amphipolis. The loss of that city cast the Athenians into great con­sternation, and with reason, because it was a place of greatimportance to them, since from thence they had materialsfor building ships and a pecuniary revenue ; and farther, be­cause, after a safe conduct through Thessaly, the route wasnow open to the Lacedaemonians as far as the Strymon, toannoy their dependents. Yet had they not possessed them­selves of the bridge, the large lake formed above by the ri­ver, and the check given by the triremes stationed at Eion,would have hindered the Lacedaemonians from penetratingfurther. But all obstacles appeared to the Athenians nowquite easy to be surmounted ; and their apprehensions, thattheir dependents would revolt, alarmed them much. ForBrasidas in the rest of his conduct gave constant proofs ofan excellent temper ; and the declaration was ever in hismouth, " that he had been sent thither to restore the liberty" of Greece." Accordingly the cities, which were subjectto the Athenians, had no sooner heard of the surrender ofAmphipolis together with the brave exploits and the mildengaging deportment of Brasidas, than they conceived themost ardent inclination to shake off the yoke. They se­cretly dispatched their agents to him, earnestly desiring avisit from him,- with respective assurances from each, thatthey w<5uld be the first to revolt. They judged, therewas no longer room to apprehend any bad consequencesfrom such a step; falsely estimating the Athenian powerto be much less considerable than it afterwards appeared.But this their judgment was founded more upon uncertainpresumption than deliberate prudence. It is the turn of