OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 289 1 from the Gauls, was bringing over the heavy troops,Mago and his horsemen, in one day's march afterP™ passing the river, came up with the enemy at Pla-mt centia. In a few days after Hannibal fortified a"tf camp within six miles of Placentia ; and next day,■f" drawing up his forces in the enemy's view, offeredlf™ them battle. v| 48. On the night following there was a violent out-e Is rage committed in the Roman camp by the auxiliaryGauls ; which, however, was attended with greater I * tumult than loss of lives. A number of them, amount­ed ing to two thousand foot and two hundred horse, kill-ffr ing the guards at the gates, deserted to Hannibal. ThePn' Carthaginian received them with expressions of much kindness; and after animating their zeal by prospectsof vast rewards, dismissed them to their respectivei' states, to engage the rest of their countrymen in his II interest. Scipio, apprehending that this outrage wasa signal for a general revolt of the Gauls; and that, in- '.' fected with the same treacherous spirit, they would run* like madmen to arms, though still very ill of his wound,i marched away in silence at the fourth watch of thefollowing night, toward the river Trebia, and removedi his camp to higher grounds, and hills less advantageousto the operations of cavalry. His departure was not sosecret as at the Ticinus; Hannibal, therefore, sendingon first the Numidians, afterwards all his cavalry, wouldhave caused great disorder, at least in the rear of thearmy, had not the Numidians, out of their greedinessfor plunder, turned aside into the forsaken camp of theRomans. While searching narrowly every part of it,without finding any prize to compensate for the loss oftime, they let the enemy slip out of their hands. After­wards, coming within sight of the Romans, when theyhad already passed the Trebia, and were pitching theircamp, they cut off a few, who loitered behind the reston that side of the river. Scipio, unable to endure anylonger the pain of his wound, which was exasperatedby the rough motion in travelling, and at the sametime judging it prudent to wait for his colleague, (for LIV. VOL. III. T