OCR Output 534 DISSERTATION III. the Antiquities of Josephus, and knew that the most part ofthe accounts he produced of the origin of the Jewish nationentirely contradicted those Antiquities. He also could hardlyavoid seeing that those accounts contradicted one anotheralso, and were childish, absurd, and supported by no goodevidence whatsoever: as also, he could hardly avoid seeingthat Josephus's accounts in those Antiquities were authentic,substantial, and thoroughly attested to by the ancient recordsof that nation, and of the neighboring nations also, which,indeed, no one can now avoid seeing, that carefully perusesand considers them. IV. Tacitus, therefore, in concealing the greatest part ofthe true ancient history of the Jewish nation, which lay beforehim in Josephus, and producing such fabulous, ill-grounded,and partial histories, which he had from the heathens, acteda most unfair part: and this procedure of his is here themore gross, in regard he professed such great impartiality,Hist. b. i. cap. i. and is allowed to have observed that impar足tiality in the Roman affairs also. V. Tacitus's hatred and contempt of God's peculiar people,the Jews, and his attachment to the grossest idolatry, super足stition, and astral fatality of the Romans, were, therefore, sostrong in him, as to overbear all restraints of sober reasonand equity in the case of those Jews, though he be allowedso exactly to have followed them on other occasions relatingto tho Romans. VI. Since, therefore, Tacitus was so bitter against theJews, and since he knew that Christ was a Jew himself, andthat his apostles and first followers were Jews, and also knewthat the Christian religion was derived into the Roman pro足vinces from Judea, it is no wonder that his hatred and con足tempt of the Jews extended itself to the Christians also, whomthe Romans usually confounded with the Jews : as, therefore,his hard words of the Jews appear to have been generallygroundless, and hurt his own reputation, instead of theirs, soought we to esteem his alike hard words of the Christians tcbe blots upon his own character and not upon theirs.