OCR Output ILLYEICUM. 37 1LLYRICUM. with scarcely a hidden danger, give ships a securepassage between them. Cherso, Otero, Lussin, San-tryo (AbsyrtiJes), abound with fossil bones. Thebone-breccia of these islands appears to be the sameconglomerate with those of Gibraltar, Cerigo, andother places in the Mediterranean. The Liburniangroup (AiSvpvtSts yrjaot, Strab. ii. p. 124, rii.pp. 315, 317; "Libamicae Insulae," Plin. iii. 30),Lisa* (Groasa), Brattia (Brazia), Issa {Lissa),Meuta (Mtlada), Corcyba Nigra {Cvrzula),Phabos (Lema) and Olynta (Solta), hare goodports, but are badly supplied with drinkable water,and are not fertile. The mountainous tract, thoughindustriously cultivated towards the shore, is forthe most part, as in the days of Strabo (£ c),wild, rugged, and barren. The want of water andthe arid soil make Dalmatia unfit for agriculture;and therefore of old, this circumstance, coupled withthe excellency and number of the harbours, made thenatives more known for piracy than for commercialenterprise. A principal feature of the whole rangeis that called Monte-Negro {Czernagora'), consistingchiefly of the cretaceous or Mediterranean limestone,to extensively developed from the Alps to the Archi­pelago, and remarkable for its craggy character.The general height is about 3000 feet, with a fewhigher summits, and the slopes are gentle in thedirection of the inclination of the "strata," withprecipices at the outcroppings, which give a linevariety to the scenery. There is no sign of volcanic action in Dalmatia;and the Nymphaeum near Apollonia, celebrated torthe flames that rose continually from it, has probablyno reference to anything of a volcanic nature, but isconnected with the beds of asphaltum, or mineralpitch, which occur in great abundance in the num-mnlitic limestone of Albania. The coast of what is now called Middle Albania,or the Illyrian territory, N. of Epirus, is, especiallyin its N. portion, of moderate height, and in someplaces even low and unwholesome, as far as Alxom(Yalona or Avluiui), where it suddenly becomesragged and mountainous, with precipitous dill'sdescending rapidly towards the sea. This is theKhimara range, upwards of 4000 feet high, dreadedby ancient mariners as the Acro-Ccraunian promon­tory. The interior of this territory was much su­perior to N. Illyricum in productiveness: thoughmountainous, it has more valleys and open plains forcultivation. The sea-ports of Epidamnus and Apol­lonia introduced the luxuries of wine and oil to thebarbarians; whose chiefs learnt also to value thewoven fabrics, the polished and carved metallicwork, the tempered weapons, and the pottery which«m furnished them by Grecian artisans. Salt fish,and, what was of more importance to the inland re­sidents en lakes like that of Lychnidus, salt itself,was imported. In return tbey supplied the Greekswith those precious commodities, cattle and slaves.Silver mines were also worked at Damastium.Wax and honey were probably articles of export;and h is a proof that the natural products of II-ltria were carefully sought out, when we find aspecies of iris peculiar to the country collected andsent to Corinth, where its root was employed to givethe special flavour to a celebrated kind of aromaticunguent. Grecian commerce and intercourse notonly tended to civilise the S. Illyrians beyond theirnorthern brethren, who shared with the Thraciantribes the custom of tattooing their bodies and ofofiering human sacrifices; but through the intro- duction of Grecian exiles, made them acquaintedwith Hellenic ideas and legends, as may be seen bythe tale of Cadmus and Harmonia, from whom thechiefs of the Illyrian Enuhelees professed to tracetheir descent. (Comp. Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. iv.pp. 1—10, and the authorities quoted there; towhich may be added, Wilkinson, Dalmatia andMontenegro, vol. i. pp. 38—42; J. F. Neigebaur,Die Sudslaven, Leipzig, 1851; Niebnhr, Lect. onEthnog. and Geog. vol. i. pp. 297—314; Smyth,The Mediterranean, pp. 40—45; Hahn, AUtane-sische Siiidien, Wieu, 1854.) 4. Race and National Character.—Sufficient isnot known either of the language or customs of theIllyrians, by which their race may be ascertained.The most accurate among the ancient writers have al­ways distinguished them as a separate nation, or groupof nations, from both the Thracians and Epirots. The ancient Illyrians are unquestionably the an­cestors of the people generally known in Europe bythe name Albanians, but who are called by theTurks " Arnauts," and by themselves" Skipetares,"which means in their language " mountaineers," or"dwellers on rocks," and inhabit the greater partof ancient Illyricum and Epirus. They have a pe­culiar language, and constitute a particular race,which is very distinct from the Slavonian inhabit­ants who border on them towards the N. The an­cients, as has been observed, distinguished the Il­lyrians from the Epirots, and have given no intima­tions that they were in any way connected. Butthe Albanians, who inhabit both Illyricum andEpirus, are one people, whose language is only variedby slight modifications of dialect. The Illyriansappear to have been pressed southwards by Slavonianhordes, who settled in Dalmatia. Driven out fromtheir old territories, they extended themselves to­wards the S., where they now inhabit xiany districtswhich never belonged to them in former times, andhave swallowed up the Epirots, and extinguishedtheir language. According to Schafarik {Slav. A Itvol. i. p. 31) the modern Albanian population is1,200,000. Ptolemy is the earliest writer in whose works thename of the Albanians has been distinctly recognised.He mentions (iii. 13. § 23) a tribe called Aluani('AASavot) and a town Albanopolis ('AA£a-koVoAu), in the region lying to the E. of the Ioniansea; and from the names of places with whichAlbanopolis is connected, it appears clearly to havebeen in the S. part of the Illyrian territory, and inmodern A Ibania. There are no means of forming aconjecture how the name of this obscure tribe cameto be extended to so considerable a nation. Thelatest work upon the Albanian language is that ofF. Hitter von Xylander {Die Sprache tier Albdticsenoder Skhipetaren, 1835), who has elucidated thissubject, and established the principal facts upon afirm basis. An account of the positions at whichXylander arrived will be found in Frit-hard {ThePhysical History of Mankind, vol. iii. pp. 477—482). As the Dalmatian Slaves have adopted the nameIllyrians, the Slavonian language spoken in Dalmatia,especially at liagusa, is also called Illyrian; andthis designation has acquired general currency; butit must always be remembered that the ancientIllyrians were in no way connected with the Slaveraces. In the practice of tattooing their bodies, andoffering human sacrifices, the Illyrians resembled theThrackns (Strab. vii. p. 315; Herod, v. 6): the D 3