OCR Output 980 S1CILIA. time, next to Agrigentum and Syracuse, probablythe most flourishing city in Sicily, but it was whollyunprepared for defence, and was taken after a siegeof only a few days, the inhabitants put to the swordor made prisoners, and the walls and public build­ings razed to the ground (l)iod. xiii. 54—58).From thence Hannibal turned his amis against Hi-niera, which was able to protract its resistance some­what longer, but eventually fell also into his power,when in order to avenge himself for his grandfathersdefeat, he put the whole male population to thesword, and so utterly destroyed the city that it wasnever again inhabited (Id. xiii. 59—62), After these exploits Hannibal returned to Carthagewith his fleet and army. But his successes hadnow awakened the ambition of the Carthaginianpeople, who determined upon a second invasion ofSicily, and in b. c. 406 sent thither an army stilllarger than the preceding, under the command ofHannibal. Agrigentum, at this time at the veryhighest point of its power and opulence, was onthis occasion the first object of the Carthaginianarms, and though the citizens had made every pre­paration for defence, and in fact were enabled toprolong their resistance for a period of eight monthsthey were at length compelled by famine to surren­der. The greater part of the inhabitants evacuatedthe citv. which shared the fate of Sclinus and Hi-mum (Diod. xiii. 81, 91). Three of the principal Greek cities in Sicily hadthus already fallen, and in the spring of B. c. 405,Hiinilco, who had succeeded Hannibal in the com­mand, advanced to the attack of Gela. Meanwhilethe power of Syracuse, upon which the other citieshad in a great degree relied for their protection, hadbeen in great measure paralysed by internal dissen­sions: and Dionysius now availed himself of theseto raise himself to the possession of despotic power.Bat his first operations were not more successfulthan those of the generals he replaced, and after anineffectual attempt to relieve Gela, he abandonedboth that city and Camarina to their fate, the inha­bitants of both emigrating to Leontini. Dionysiuswas able to fortify himself in the supreme power atSyracuse, and hastened to conclude peace with Hi-mi leo upon terms which left the Carthaginians undis­puted masters of nearly half of Sicily. In additionto their former possessions, Selinus, Himera, andAgrigentum were to be subject to Carthage, whilethe inhabitants of Gela and Camarina were to beallowed to return to their native cities on conditionof becoming tributary to Carthage (Diod. xiii.114.) From this time Dionysius reigned with undisputedauthority at Syracuse fur a period of 38 years(n. c. 405 — 367), and was able at his death totransmit his power unimpaired to his son. Butthough he raised Syracuse to a state of great powerand prosperity, and extended his dominion over alarge part of Sicily, as well as of the adjoining partof Italy, bis reign was marked by great and suddenchanges of fortune. Though he had dexterouslyavailed himself of the Carthaginian invasion toestablish his power at Syracuse, he had no soonerconsolidated his own authority than he began toturn his thoughts to the expulsion of the Carthagi­nians from the island. His arms were, however, di­rected in the first instance against the Chalcidiccities of Sicily, Naxos, Catana, and Leontini, all ofwhich successively fell into his power, while he ex­tended hU dominions over a great part of the Sicel SIC communities of the mteeffected these conquests,parations for war, by ethe fortifications of Syrmous fleet, that he procCarthage,B.C.397. Hissudden : almost all theadded to the Carthaginfavour, and he carriedextreme W. point of Sitchief strongholds of tlinto his bands after a lo(b. c. 396) the state twho landed in Sicily irecovered Motya andtaken by Dionysius, 1coast of the island toassault and utterly descompelled to shut burSyracuse, where he wa:but a sudden pestilencethaginian camp reduceStraits that Himilco w;capitulation and retir—76). Hostilities wib. c 393, but withthe peace concluded392) seems to have leistate as before. In b.between Dionysias andtwo great battles, witsides, a fresh treaty wriver Halycus was <between the two powthough often infringedseveral successive treatforming from hencefoimarcation between tinpower in Sicily (Diod. (For a more detailedsins and his wars wilarticle Dionysus in tThe same events arevol. x. ch. 81, 82, ancSeveral importantorigin from the reignrevolutions which thAmong these were T.the place and not faiNaxos, which had besius: Tyxdaris, foion the X. coast of theprincipally of Messeisame part of Sicily,Archonides; and Lujoining the port and |miles S. of Motya, tb<of the principal Cart;in the island. The power of Syieastern half of Siciconsolidated by the e:broken up by the feebof his son. Only tefather (b.c. 357), Diof only a few hundrethe standard of revoof Syracuse soon flowelcomed into the sjthe citizens, Dionyitime, but the island-