OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULP1CIAN REVOLUTION. 267 general with his powerful voice haughtily demanded whetherhe dared to kill Gaius Marius. When they learned this,the magistrates of Minturnae were ashamed that the delivererof Rome should meet with greater reverence from slaves towhom he had brought servitude than from his fellow-citizensto whom he had brought freedom; they loosed his fetters,gave him a vessel and money for travelling expenses, andsent him to .Enaria (Ischia). The proscribed with theexception of Sulpicius gradually met in those waters; theylanded at Eryx and at what was formerly Carthage, but theRoman magistrates both in Sicily and in Africa sent themaway. So they escaped to Numidia, whose sandy desertsgave them a place of refuge for the winter. But the kingHiempsal II., whom they hoped to gain and who had seemedfor a time willing to unite with them, had only done so tolull them into security, and now attempted to seize theirpersons. With great difficulty the fugitives escaped fromhis cavalry, and found a temporary refuge in the little islandof Kerkina (Kerkena) on the coast of Tunis. We know not,whether Sulla thanked his fortunate star that he had beenspared the odium of putting to death the victor of the Cim-brians; at any rate it does not appear that the magistratesof Minturnae were punished. With a view to remove existing evils and to prevent Legislationfuture revolutions, Sulla suggested a series of new legislative of Sulla,enactments. For the hard-pressed debtors nothing seemsto have been done, except that the rules as to the maximumrate of interest were enforced ;* directions moreover weregiven for the formation of a number of colonies. The senatewhich had been greatly thinned by the battles and prosecu­tions of the Social War was filled up by the admission of 300new senators, who were naturally selected in the interest ofthe Optimates. Lastly, material changes were adopted in re­spect to the mode of election and the initiative of legislation.The arrangement for the voting in the centuriate comitiaintroduced in 513 (ii. 353), which conceded an equal voice 241.to each of the five property-classes, was again exchanged forthe old Servian arrangement, under which the first class * It is not clear, what the lex unciaria of the consuls Sulla and Hufus inthe year 666 prescribed in this respect; but the simplest hypothesis is that 88.which regards it as a renewal of the law of 397 (i. 291), so that the highest 357.allowable rate of interest was again -^th of the capital for the year of tenmonths or 10 per cent, for the year of twelve months.