OCR Output SICILIA. SICILIA. 987 (K. of F.nna, bat W. of the valley of the Symne-tnn; Cestubjpa (Centorbi), nearly dae E. ofEau; Adranum {Aderno), on the E. bank of the.»i lethoa, at the foot of Mount Aetna; HyblaLook (which must not be confounded with thettj of the same name near Syracuse), and Aetna,r.>nu«ly called Lnessa, both situated on theTjtbem slope of the same mountain. N. of Agy-oa the southern slopes of the Mons Nebrodestrr situated Herbita, Capitium, and probablybo Galaiua: while on the northern declivities ofIt same mountains, fronting the sea, but at somestance inland, were placed Apoi.lonia (probably -V.-i.»). Amestbatitb (Mistretta), Abacaenum, fc-w miles inlarul from Tyndaris, and Noae, pro-itly Soara. Three other towns, Imachara,TIA3TA, and Tissa, may probably be assigned toia lam* region of Sicily, though their exact posi­ts cannot be determined. 3. In the SE. portion'vi:», S. of the Symaethns and its tributary* Chrysas or Dittaino, were situated Eroetium,nlx.iXTlA, LaoaTtlll, and Hybla: as well asX3AKXUM and Hekbkssus: but of all theseixrs Leontini (/.en/mi) and Menaenum (J/ineo)t the only ones that can be identified with any-like certainty. In the hilts W. of Syracusen» Acbae (Paiasofo), Bints (S. Gio. di Bidino),*i ■ i :.: m (Caaioro); and YV. of these again, ine direction towards tie!a, must be placed the He­al Htbca, as well as Echetla, in the neigh-arbood of Crm Michek. SW. of Syracuse, in theterior, were Neti'M or Neetum (Aro(o Veechio),•4 Mottca (Modica), both of which are well*»n. The Syracusan colony of Casmenak muststably have been situated in the same districtt its site has never been identified.After going through this long list of Sicilianras, there remain the following, noticed either by.-rro or Pliny, as municipal towns, to the positionwhich we have no means of even approximating.t» Achkrixi (Cic.),TvRAClNl(Cic; Tyracicnses,la), Areataei (I'lin.), Etini (Id.), Uerbulenses<•-), Senwllitani (Id.), Tahirenscs (Id.), Many of> above oaines are probably corrupt and merelyreadings, but we are at a loss what to sub-cite. On the other hand, the existence of a town1*1 McnsTKATtiM or Mytistratum is attested byth Cicero and Pliny, and there seems no sufficienttun for rejecting it as identical with Amestratus, tis been done by many modern geographers,earn its aite is wholly uncertain. Equally un- • i are the following names given by Ptolemyr«S the inland towns of the island: AletaUvra), Hydra or Lydia (*T8jx» or Avoid), Paty-y »< •. Coturga or Cortuga (KoVvpya or Legum or Letum (AiryoK or A^tok),ifrina (*A7*"pi*w), Ina or Ena ("lyaor'Hi'a), and■»:!.:tim ('EAic«Sio»'). It would be a waste of timeOacosa tbeae names, most of which are probablytheir present form corrupt, and are all of themterwiae wholly unknown. On the other hand theLitxnee af Xaoox a, mentioned by Stephanus ofuatiam, bat not noticed by any other writer, is".1 Tried by coins. Tie topography of Sicily is still very imperfectlym. The ruins of its more celebrated cities arewe'll known and have been often described;pvutly in the valuable work of the Duke ofrra di Faleo (Antiehita delta Sicilia, 5 vols. fol.mtho, 1834—1839), as well as in the well-knownink lit Swiubuxue, Sir K Hoare, &c. (Swiuburue's Travels in the Tvso Sicilies. 2 v.ds. 4to. Lond. 1783;Sir R. Hoarc's Classical Tour through Italy anilSicily, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1819; St. Non, VoyagePittoresque de Naples et de la Sidle, 5 vols. fol.Paris, 1781; Biscari, Principe di, Viaggio per leAntichita delta Sicilia, 8vo. Palermo, 1817, &c):but the island has never been thoroughly exploredby an antiquarian traveller, like those to whom weare indebted for our knowledge of Greece and AsiaMinor. The valuable work of Cluveriua (SiciiiaAntiqua, fol. Lugd. Bat. 16111) must here, as wellas for Italy, be made the foundation of all subsequentresearches. But much valuable information is foundin the more ancient work of Fazello, a Sicilian monkof the sixteenth century, as well as of his commen­tator Amico, and in the Topographical Dictionary ofthe latter author. (Thomae Fuzelti de Rebus SiculutDecades Duo, first edit, in fol. Panormi, 1558,republished with copious notes by Amico, 3 vols. fol.Catanae, 1749—1753 ; Amico, Lexicon Topogra-phicum Sicuium, 3 vols. 4to. Catanae, 1759). Much,however, still remains to be done. Many localitiesindicated by Fazello in the sixteenth century aspresenting ancient remains have never (so far as weare aware) been visited by any modern traveller; nogood map of the island exists, which can be trustedfor topographical details, and there can be littledoubt that a minute and careful examination of thewhole country, such as has been made of the neigh­bouring island of Sardinia by the Chev. De la Mar­mora, would well reward the labours of the explorer.Even the ruins described by Sir U. Hoare as existingin the neighbourhood of Sta Croce, or those situatednear Vindicari, a few miles N. of Cape Pachynusand commonly ascribed to Imachara, have neverbeen examined in detail, nor has any clue been ob­tained to their identification. The Itineraries give several lines of route throughthe island, but many of the stations mentioned arewholly uncertain, and were probably never morethan obscure villages or mere solitary jiostliouM's.The first line of route (/(in. Ant. pp. 86—89) pro­ceeds from Messana along the E. coast by Taurome-nium and Acium to Catana, and from thence strikesinland across the centre of the island to Agrigentum;the coarse of this inland route is wholly uncertainand the names of the three stations upon it, Capi-toniana, Gelasium Philosophiana and Petiliaua, areentirely unknown. From Agrigentum it followedthe line of coast to Lilybacum; the stations givenare Cena [Caena], Allava, Ad Aquas (i. e. theAquae Labodes or Thermae Selinuntiae), Ad fluviumLanarium, and Mazara; all except the 3rd and 5thof very uncertain site. A second route (//in. Ant.pp. 89, 90) proceeds in the inverse direction fromLilybaeuni to Agrigentum, and thence by a moresoutherly line, through Cslvisiana, Hybla, amiAcrae {Palaszolo) to Syracuse, and from thence asbefore along the E. coast to Messana. A third linofollows the N. coast of the island from Lilybaeumby Panonnus to Messana. The stations un this lineare better known and can for the most part be de­termined: they are, Drepana, Aquae Segestanaa(near Segesta), Parthenium (Airrinico), Hyccaia(Muro di Carini), Panormus. Siluntum, ThennaevCephaloedium, Halesns(Alaesii). Calacte. Agatinnuu(Agathyrnum), Tyndaris, and Messana. A fourtroute (/fin. Ant. p. 93) crossed the interior of th.island from Thermae, where it branched off from th'-.preceding, passing through Enna, Agyrinm, Centu-i ripa and Aetna to Catana. A fifth gives us a