OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 499 their gods: for even their sons and their daughters have theyburnt in the fire to their gods." Sec chap, xviii. 10; 2 Kingsxvii. 17. " ' And Ahaz made his son to pass through the fire, accord­ing to the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord castout before the children of Israel." "2 Moreover, Ahaz burnt incense in the valley of the sonof Hinnom, and burnt his children [his son in Josephus] inthe fire, after the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lordhad cast out before the children of Israel." "3And the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire toAdrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim," &c. "4 And Josiah defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of thechildren of Hinnom, that no one might make his son or hisdaughter to pass through the fire unto Molech." "5Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters untodemons ; and shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons andof their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Ca­naan, and the land was polluted with blood." See Isaiah,lvii. 5. "6The children of Judah hath done evil in my sight, saiththe Lord; they have set their abominations in the house whichis called by my name, to pollute it: and they have built thehigh places of Tophet, which is in the valley of the son ofHinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire,which I commanded them not, nor came it into my heart." "" Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, beholdI will bring evil upon this place, the which whosoever hearethhis ears shall tingle, because they have forsaken me, and haveestranged this place, and have burnt incense unto other gods,whom neither they nor their fathers have known, nor thekings of Judah, and have filled this place with the blood ofinnocents. They have built also the high places of Baal, toburn their sons with fire for burnt-offerings unto Baal, whichI commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into mymind," &c. 1 2 Kings xvi. 3. > 2 Chion. xxviii. 3. '2 Kings xvii. 31. 4 2 Kings xxii. 10. ' Psal. cvi. 37, 38. • Jer. vii. 30-32. ' Jer. xix. 3-5.