OCR Output ROMA. 733 ROMA. /^■b which eikt prra to the present day ; he im-'jrrrf tbt Cimu Maximus, planned the temple ofLa* CapitoliM Jopiler, and erected the first por- ■ ujJ uitfnue around the forum (Liv. i. 35,»; Vmyu iii. 67—69; Tac Hist. iii. 72) ; ini vi-, it must be regarded as the founder of the sub- architectural splendour of Rome.The •Afciooal ijare included by Sen'ius Tulliusi -V jm d will which he completed is variously»*iv] >n Arfrreut authors. Dionysius (iv. 13) andkvn (r.p 134) relate that be added the Viminalnd Ejealii* hilts: Liry states that the hills whichV a!dnl wen the Quirinal and Viminal, and that he or improved the Esquiline (u anget Esqui­re l. 44); while Victor ( Vir. III. 7) mentions thatwtUsi all three. It is possible that Livy means! hack or eastern portion of the Quirinal and► t..: it which run tether into one common ridge,■i. ■tali wis fortified by the agger of Servius and in this way we may account for his:v~vi<i \A "aucet Esqnilias," which alludes toaiBaian of the hill, and the consequent amal-estfwe <t its previously separate tongues, tlie Op-•■■ v-1 r»^us. Hence there is but little real con-lAma is these apparently divergent statements.■*r» fat elder Tarquin may dispute with Servius ■ l»**r of having huilt the walls of Rome, yet ■ ■ t*:nrtioo of the agger is unanimously ascribedv-iin, with the single exception of Pliny (iii.[ vie attributes it to Tarquin the Proud. Thefcaa, hmm, has prevailed of ascribing not only * '. j: tie waJla also, to Servius. A description- »all» and of their gates, and an inquiry into * "rrtafaeoce of the Servian city, will be found'' part of this article; but there are two j'*atii, in some degree connected with one ■ V "htch require investigation here, namely,f bfitm or* Servius and the Septimontium. •/* Servius. — Servius divided the city*" r;o^iti/(iihtricts or regions, which, however, * a* MBtrensurate with its extent. Their num-•**a to hart been connected with that of the'^"•v, bat there are many particulars concerning11 b racnot be explained. Our knowledgefca 3 chiefly derived from Varro (L. L. § 45, * Wall), from whom we learn that they were: * ^rrwaa, the limits of which cannot be prc-!y ^naified, bat which embmccd the Caclian **w Tii>T ri the Colosseum, and part of the Sacmwttfern portion of the southern tongue ofF*v '» (Motw Oppius) known as the Carinac,i-ewi,—which seen is to have been the valley*t the valley between the Esquiline and Cae--*H the Suborn, or valley north of the Oppius.^■^•feima or Esqviiiae, which comprehendedor N. tcngue of the Enquiline (Mons ■* «^d its eastern buck or ridge, as far as them »agger of Servius, and perhaps also then *ck ef the Oppius. HI. The Coilina, so[ Hm iu embracing the Quirinal and Viminal *-*a, as we have before said, were called1 ** ov'radiatinction to the other hills calledK Tat oterremng valleys were, of course,k"* IV. The Palatum or Palatium, embracedail aiti jta two spurs or offshoots, Velia and we ciXT-pare these1 regions with the map of1 ** wt immediately struck with some remark-■waiea. Thus, the Capitoline bill, with ther tr tot E. (f.*-um). and valley to the S. (Ve- tM >'.)rum Boariuxxi), together with the Aventine, are entirely excluded. Various conjec­tures have been proposed to account for these omis­sions. Some have imagined that the Capitol wasexcluded because the division of Servius regardedonly the plebeian tribes, and that the Capitol wasinhabited solely by patricians. Becker {I/andb. p.386) rightly rejects this hypothesis; but another,which he prefers to it, seems hardly better founded,namely, that the hill, as being the citadel, was oc­cupied with public buildings to the exclusion of allprivate ones, or, at all events, as being common toall, could not be incorporated with any one region.But this would have been a better reason for theexclusion of the Quirinal, which was at that timethe proper capitol of the city ; nor does it seem to bea fact that private buildings were excluded from theCapitol. Various reasons have also been assigned forthe exclusion of the Aventine; the princi|«l of whichare, the unfavourable auguries which had appearedupon it to Remus, and the circumstance of its con-taining a temple of Diana, which was common to allthe I^atin nation, and therefore prevented the hillfrom being made a portion of the city. But if we attentively read the account given byVarro of the Servian Regions (L. L. v. §§ 41 — 54,MUll), we shall perceive that the division was entirelyguided by the distribution of the Argive chapels, in­stituted probably by Kuina; though Varro does not ex­plain why they should have had this influence. Thus,after giving an account of the Capitoline and Aven­tine, he proceeds to say (§ 45): "Reliqua urbis locaolim discreta, quom Argeorum sacraria in septem etxx. partis urbis sunt disposita. Argeos dittos pu-tant a principibus qui cum Hercule Argivo venereRomam et in Saturnia subsederunt. E quia primaest scripta Regio Suburana, sccunda Exquilina,tertia Coilina, quarta 1'alatina." Ho then proceedsto enumerate the cacraria or chapels in each regio,mentioning six in each, or twenty-four in all, thoughhe had called them twenty-seven in the passage justquoted. The obvious meaning of this passage is, that "theother parts of the city were formerly separated (i. e,from the Capitoline and Aventine) at the time whenthe Argive chapels were distributed into twenty-seven parts of the city.** It would hardly, perhaps,be necessary to state this, had not some eminentscholars put a different interpretation on the passage.Thus Bunsen (Beschreibung der Stadt Horn, vol. i.p. 147), whose general view of the matter teems to heapproved of by Becker (Ilandb. p. 127, note 183),takes Varro's meaning to be, that the remaining partsof the city did not originally form each a separatedistrict, like the Capitol and Aventine, but weredivided into smaller parts, with different names.This view has l>eeii already condemned by Muller(rtrf toe), and indeed its improbability is btriking;but it requires a somewhat minute examination («fthe passage to show that it is altogether untenable.Livy also mentions these chapels as follows : "Multaalia sacrificia locaque sacris faciecdis, quae Argeospontin'ces vocant, dedicavit (Numa)." (i. 21.) NowBunsen is of opinion that the statements of Livyand Varro are inconsistent, and that whilst theformer under the name of Argd means places^ thelatter alludes to men. In conformity with this viewhe proceeds to construe the passage in Varro as fol­lows: "The name of Argive* is derived from thechiefs who camo with the Argive Hercules to Romeand settled in Saturnia. Of these jxirts of the citywe find first described (viz. in the Sacris Argeorum)