OCR Output B.VI. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 145 Hipparchus got the title, and passed in the opinion ofsucceeding ages for one of the tyrants. On Harmodius therefore, who was deaf to his solicita­tions, he executed his resentment in the manner pre­determined. For, a summons having been delivered toa sister of his, a young virgin, to attend and carry thebasket in some public procession, they afterwards reject­ed her; alledging, she never had nor could have beensummoned, because flie was unworthy of the honour.This affront highly provoked Harmodius; but Aristo-giton, out of zeal for him, was far more exasperated atit. The points needful to their intended revenge wereconcerted with the party who concurred in the design.But they waited for the great Panathenæa to strike theblow; on which festival alone, without incurring suspi­cion, such of the citizens as assisted in the processionmight be armed and gathered together in numbers. Itwas settled, that they themselves should begin; andthen, the body of their accomplices were to undertaketheir protection against the guards of the tyrant's family. The persons made privy to this design were but few,from a view to a more secure execution of it. For theypresumed that even such as were not in the secret,•when the attempt was once in whatever manner begun,finding themselves armed, would seize the opportunity,and readily concur to assert their own freedom. Whentherefore the festival was come, Hippias, repairingwithout the walls to the place called Ceramicus, andthere attended by his guards, was prescribing and ad­justing the order of the procession. Harmodius andAristogiton, each armed with a dagger, advanced toexecute their parts. But, when they saw one of theiraccomplices in familiar conversation with Hippias, (forHippias was affable and courteous to all men,; theywere struck with fear; they imagined the whole oftheir plot had been betrayed, and that already they wereonly nor apprehended. Now therefore, by a sudden turnof resolution, they determined, if possible, to snatch aVol. II. L * timely 1