OCR Output 132 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. were forced to settle in the less frequented quarters of the city,in all the buildings sacred to the Gods and Heroes, exceptthose in the citadel, the Eleusinian, and any other from whencethey were excluded by religious awe. There was indeed uspot of ground below the citadel, called the Pelasgic, whichto turn into a dwelling-place, had not only been thought pro-faneness, but was expressly forbid by the close of a line in aPythian oracle, which said, hi" Best is Pelasgic empty." Yet this sudden urgent necessity constrained them to convertit to such a use. To wrr, I own, that oracle seems to havecarried a different meaning from what they gave it. For thecalamities of Athens did not flow from the profane habitationof this place, but from the war which laid them under a ne­cessity of employing it in such a manner. The oracle makesno mention of the war, but only hints that its being some timeinhabited would be attended with public misfortune. Manyof them, further, were forced to lodge themselves within theturrets of the walls, or wherever they could find a vacant cor­ner. The city was not able to receive so large a conflux ofpeople. But afterwards, the Long-walls, and a great part ofthe Piraeus, were portioned out to them for little dwellings.At the same time they were busied in the military preparations,gathering together the confederate-forces, and fitting out a fleetof one hundred ships to infest Peloponnesus. In affairs ofsuch great importance were the Athenians engaged. The Peloponnesian army, advancing forwards, came upfirst to Oenoe, through which they designed to break intoAttica. Encamping before it they made ready their engines,and all other necessaries for battering the walls. For Oenoe,being a frontier-town between Attica and Boeotia, was walledabout, since the Athenians were used, upon the breaking outof war, to throw a garrison into it. The enemy made greatpreparations for assaulting it, and by this and other meansspent no little time before it. This delay was the occasion of drawing very heavy cen­sures on Archidamus. He had before this been thought