OCR Output 82 • THE DECLINE AND FALL insensibility j,, "When Persia was governed hy the descendants of Sesi, a raceof the onen-' tals. of princes, whose wanton cruelty often stained their divan, their table, and their bed, with the blood of their favourites, there is asaying recorded of a young nobleman, that he never departed fromthe sultan's presence, without satisfying himself whether his headwas still on his shoulders. The experience of every day almostjustified the scepticism of Rustan 5\ Yet the fatal sword suspendedabove him by a single thread, seems not to have disturbed the slum­bers, or interrupted the tranquillity of the Persian. The monarch'sfrown, he well knew, could level him with the dust; but thestroke of lightning or apoplexy might be equally destructive jand it was the part of a wife man, to forget the inevitable calamitiesof human life in the enjoyment of the fleeting hour. He wasdignified with the appellation of the king's slave; had, perhaps,been purchased from obscure parents, in a country which he hadnever known; and was trained up from his infancy, in the severediscipline of the seraglio His name, his wealth, his honours, werethe gift of a master, who might, without injustice, resume whathe had bestowed. Rustan's knowledge, if he possessed any,could only serve to confirm his habits by prejudices. His lan­guage afforded not words for any form of government, exceptabsolute monarchy. The history of the east informed him, thatsuch had ever been the condition of mankind The Koran, and theinterpreters of that divine book, inculcated to him, that the sultanwas the descendant of the prophet,, and the vicegerent of Heaven;that patience was the first virtue of a Mussulman, and unlimitedobedience the great duty of a subject.Knowledge ^e minds of the Romans were very differently prepared forand free spi- slavery. Oppressed beneath the weight of their own corruption lit of the .... c ... Romans. and of military violence, they for a long while preserved the sen­timents, or at least the ideas of their freeborn ancestors. Theeducation of Helvidius and Thrasea, of Tacitus and Pliny, was the fame