OCR Output Chnp. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 157 had to be sent back in all haste to Africa, when Jugurtha'sson appeared in the enemy's ranks; we may infer from this,how great was the influence which he himself exercised overhis people. What prospect was there of a termination ofthe struggle in regions, where the combined peculiarities ofthe population and of the soil allowed a leader who hadonce secured the sympathies of the nation to protract thewar in endless guerilla conflicts, or even to let it sleep for atime in order to revive it at the right moment with renewedvigour? When Metellus again took the field in 647, Jugurtha War [107.nowhere held his ground against him; he appeared now atin the <'°-one point, now at another far distant; it seemed as if they serUwould as easily get the better of the lions as of these horse­men of the desert. A battle was fought, a victory was won;but it was difficult to say what had been gained by the vic­tory. The king had vanished out of sight in the distance.In the interior of the modern beylik of Tunis, close on theedge of the great desert and separated from the valley ofthe Mejerdah by an arid and treeless steppe of forty-fivemiles in breadth, there were situated amidst oases providedwith springs two strong places, Thala to the north (after­wards Thelepte, near Husch-el-Cheme), and Capsa (Kafsa)further south; Jugurtha had retired to the former townwith his children, his treasures, and the flower of his troops,there to await better times. Metellus ventured to followthe king through a desert, in which his troops had to carrywater along with them in skins; Thala was reached and fellafter a forty days' siege; but the Roman deserters destroyedthe most valuable part of the booty along with the building inwhich they burnt themselves after the capture of the town,and—what was of more consequence—king Jugurtha escapedwith his children and his chest. Numidia was no doubtvirtually in the hands of the Romans; but, instead of theirobject being thereby gained, the war seemed only to extendover a field wider and wider. In the south the freeGaHulian tribes of the desert began at Jugurtha's call anational war against the Romans. In the west Bocchus Maureta-king of Mauretania, whose friendship the Romans had in riian com-earlier times despised, seemed now not indisposed to make Plications-common cause with his son-in-law against them; he notonly received him at his court, but, uniting to Jugurtha'sfollowers his own numberless swarms of horsemen, he