OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 166 Africa; where there is not a single harbor open to onrfleet; no part of the country at peace with us; nostate our ally; no king our friend; no room, any­where, either to stand or advance. On whatever sideyou turn your eyes, all things are hostile and threaten­ing. Will you depend on Syphax and the Numi-dians? Suffice it to say that they were once trusted.Rashness is not always successful; and hypocrisy, byacquiring a foundation of credit in smaller matters,prepares for itself the opportunity of deceiving withgreater advantage. The foe did not get the better ofyour father and uncle by arms until their Celtiberianallies had first got the better of them by treachery.Nor were you yourself brought into so much dangerby Mago and Hasdrnbal, the enemy's generals, as bylndibilis and Mandonius, whom you had received intoyour protection. Can you, who have experienced adefection of your own soldiers, place any confidence inNumidians? Both Syphax and Masinissa are desirousof becoming the greatest powers in Africa, to the ex­clusion of the Carthaginians; but still they prefer theinterest of those people to that of any other state. Atpresent, mutual emulation embitters them against eachother, and which arises from their feeling no imme­diate apprehensions from any foreign force. The mo­ment they behold the Roman arms they will instantlyunite, as if to extinguish a fire equally threateningthem both. The efforts which these same Carthagi­nians made in support of Spain were widely differentfrom what they will exert in defence of the walls oftheir native city, of the temples of their gods, theiraltars, and their dwellings; when their wives, dis­tracted with fear, shall accompany them as they go tobattle, and their helpless children gather round them.Besides, what if the Carthaginians, thinking them­selves sufficiently secured by the harmony subsistingin Africa, by the faith of the kings their allies, and bytheir own fortifications, should, on seeing Italy de­prived of your protection, either send over a new armyfrom Africa into Italy, or order Mago (who, we know,