OCR Output 184 THE DECLINE AND FALL their antagonists, and Germanus himself was hurried along by the crowds, whorushed to the palace of Hebdomon, seven miles from the city, to adore the ma­jesty of Phocas the centurion. A modest wish of resigning the purple to the rankand merit of Germanus was opposed by his resolution, more obstinate and equallysincere:,the senate and clergy obeyed his summons, and as soon as the patriarchwas assured of his orthodox belief, he consecrated the successful usurper in thechurch of St. John the Baptist. On the third day, amidst the acclamations of athoughtless people, Phocas made his public entry in a chariot drawn by four whitehorses; the revolt of the troops was rewarded by a lavish donative, and the newsovereign, after visiting the palace, beheld from his throne the games of the hip­podrome. In a dispute of precedency between the two factions, his partial judg­ment inclined in favour of the greens. Remember that Maurice is still alive, re­sounded from the opposite side; and the indiscreet clamour of the blues admonishedand stimulated the cruelty of the tyrant. The ministers of death were des­patched to Chalcedon: they dragged the emperor from his sanctuary; and thelive sons of Maurice were successively murdered before the eyes of their agonizingparent. At each stroke, which he felt in his heart, he found strength to rehearsea pious ejaculation,—Thou art just, O 'Lord.' and thy judgments are righteous.And such, in the last moments, was his rigid attachment to truth and justice, thathe revealed to the soldiers the pious falsehood of a nurse who presented her ownchild in the place of a royal infant. (1) .The tragic scene was finally closed by theexecution of the emperor himself, in the twentieth year of his reign, and the sixty-third year of his age. The bodies of the father and his five sons were cast intothe sea, their heads were exposed at Constantinople to the insults or pity of themultitude, and it was not till some signs of putrefaction had appeared, that Pho­cas connived at the private burial of these venerable remains. In that grave, thefaults and errors of Maurice were kindly interred. His fate alone was remem­bered; and at the end of twenty years, in the recital of the history of Theophylact,the mournful tale was interrupted by the tears of the audience. (2) Such tears must have flowed in secret; and such compassion would have beencriminal, under the reign of Phocas, who was peaceably acknowledged in theprovinces of the east and west. The images of the emperor and his wife Leontiawere exposed in the Lateran to the veneration of the clergy and senate of Rome,and afterwards deposited in the palace of the Csesars, between those of Constan-tine and Theodosius. As a subject and a Christian, it was the duty of Gregory toacquiesce in the established government, but the joyful applause with which hesalutes the fortune of the assassin, has sullied with indelible disgrace the charac­ter of the saint. The successor of the apostles might have inculcated with de­cent firmness the guilt of blood, and the necessity of repentance; he is content tocelebrate the deliverance of the people and the fall of the oppressor; to rejoicethat the piety and benignity of Phocas have been raised by Providence to the im­perial throne; to pray that his hands may be strengthened against all his enemies;and to express a wish, perhaps a prophecy, that after a long and triumphant reign,he maybe transferred from a temporal to an everlasting kingdom. (3) I havealready traced the steps of a revolution so pleasing, in Gregory's opinion, both toheaven and earth; and Phocas does not appear less hateful in the exercise thanin the acquisition of power. The pencil of an impartial historian has delineatedthe portrait of a monster;(4) his diminutive and deformed person, the closenessof his shaggy eve-brows, his red hair, his beardless chin, and his cheek disfiguredand discoloured by a formidable scar. Ignorant of letters, of laws, and even ofarms, he indulged in the supreme rank a more ample privilege of lust and drunk­enness, and his brutal pleasures were either injurious to his subjects or disgraceful (1) From this generous attempt, Corneille has deduced the intricate web of his tragedy of Heraclius, whichrequires more than one representation to be clearly understood; (Corneille de Voltaire, torn. v. p. 300.) andwhich, after an interval of some years, is said to have puzzled the author himself. Anecdotes Dramatiqucs,torn. i. p. 422. (2) The revolt of Phocas and death of Maurice are told by Theophylact Simocatta, lib. viii. e. 7—12.) thePaschal Chronicle (p. 379,380.) Theophanes, (Chronograph, p. 238—244.) Zonaras, torn. ii. lib. i*iv. p. 77—80.)and Cedrenus, (p. 399—404.) (3) Gregor. hbvxi. epist. 38. indict. 6. Benignitatem, vestras pietatis ad imperiale fastigium pervennissegaudemus. Lauentur cosli et exultet terra, et de vestris benignis actibus universal reipublicse populus noneusque vehementer afilictus liilarescat, Sec. This base flattery, the topic of Protestant invective, is justly cen­sured by the philosopher Bayle. (Dictionaire Critique, Gregoire I. No. H. torn. ii. p. 597, J98.) Cardinal Ba-ronius justifies the pope at the expense of toe fallen emperor. (4) The images of Phocas were destroyed; but even the malice of his enemies would suffer one copy ofsuch a portrait or caricature (Cedrenus, p. 404.) to escape the flames. 4