OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST AFION. 359 but little on any good foundation when they set to write, butrather wrote their histories from their own conjectures ?Accordingly, they confute one another in their own books topurpose, and are not ashamed to give us the most contra­dictory accounts of the same things; and I should spend mytime to little purpose, if I should pretend to teach the Greeksthat which they know better than I already, what a greatdisagreement there is between Hellanicus and Acusilaus abouttheir genealogies; in how many cases Acusilaus correctsHesiod; or after what manner Ephorus demonstrates Hella­nicus to have told lies in the greatest part of his history;as does Timeus in like manner as to Ephorus, and the suc­ceeding writers do to Timeus, and all the later writers do toHerodotus;1 nor could Timeus agree with Antiochus andPhilistius, or with Callias, about the Sicilian history, nomore than do the several writers of the Athidae follow oneanother about the Athenian affairs; nor do the historians thelike, that wrote the Argolies, about the affairs of the Argives.And now what need I say any more about particular citiesand smaller places, while in the most approved writers of theexpedition of the Persians, and of the actions which weretherein performed, there are so great differences? Nay, 1 It well deserves to be considered, that Josephus here says, how all thefollowing Greek historians looked on Herodotus as a fabulous author, andpresently, sect. 14, how Manetho, the most authentic writer of the Egyptianhistory, greatly complains of his mistakes in the Egyptian affairs; as alsothat Strabo, li. xi. p. 607, the most accurate geographer and historian,esteemed him such; that Xenophon, the much more accurate historian inthe days of Cyrus, implies, that Herodotus's accounts of that great manare almost entirely romantic. See the note on Antiq. B. xi. ch. ii. sect. 1,and Hutchinson's Prolegomena to his edition of Xenophon's Kty« Ilcutsia thatwe have already seen in the note on Antiq. B. viii. chap. x. sect. 3, howvery little Herodotus knew about the Jewish affairs and country, and thathe greatly affected what we call the marvellous, as Monsieur Rollin haslately and justly determined; whence we are not always to depend on theauthority of Herodotus, where it is unsupported by other evidence, butought to compare the other evidence with his, .ind, if it preponderate, toprefer it before his. I do not mean by this that Herodotus wilfully relatedwhat he believed to be false (as Ctesias seems to have done,) but that heoften wanted evidence, and sometimes preferred what was marvellous towhat was best attested as really true.