OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387 Dominus, or Lord, in its primitive signification, was expressive,not of the authority of a prince over his subjects, or of a comman­der over his soldiers, but of the despotic power of a master over hisdomestic staves9*. Viewing it in that odious light, it had been re­jected with abhorrence by the first Cæsars. Their resistance insen­sibly became more feeble, and the name less odious; till at lengththe style of our Lord and Emperor was not only bestowed by flat­tery, but was regularly admitted into the laws and public monu­ments. Such lofty epithets were sufficient to elate and satisfy themost excessive vanity; and if the successors of Diocletian still de­clined the title of King, it seems to have been the effect not so muchof their moderation as of their delicacy. Wherever the Latintongue was in use, (and it was the language of government through­out the empire) the imperial title, as it was peculiar to themselves,conveyed a more respectable idea than the name of king, whichthey must have shared with an hundred barbarian chieftains; orwhich, at the best, they could derive only from Romulus or fromTarquin. But the sentiments of the East were very different fromthose of the West. From the earliest period of history, the sove­reigns of Asia had been celebrated in the Greek language by thetitle of Basileus, or King; and since it was considered as thefirst distinction among men, it was soon employed by the servileprovincials of the East in their humble addresses to the Romanthrone". Even the attributes, or at least the titles of the Divinity,were usurped by Diocletian and Maximian, who transmitted themto a succession of Christian emperors ,0°. Such extravagant compli­ments, however, soon lose their impiety by losing their meaning;and when the ear is once accustomed to the sound, they are" heardwith indifference as vague though excessive professions of respect. From the time of Augustus to that of Diocletian, the Roman Diocletian as-pnnces, convening in a iamiliar manner among their fellow-citi- "lem, and in-zens, were saluted only with the same respect that was usually paid t'ersian cere- dd 2 to