OCR Output 250 . Liyy. mand of the cavalry, and having ordered them tomount their horses, led them on instantly to thecharge. The confusion occasioned by these was in­creased by the shouts of the legions; nor would theCarthaginian line have stood their ground, bad notMago immediately brought up the elephants to thefight, having kept them in readiness against thefirst motion which the horse should make. By thesnorting and sight of these animals, the horses werefrightened to such a degree, as rendered the aid of thecavalry of no effect. As the Roman horseman had theadvantage in point of strength, when in close fight,and when he could use his javelin and sword hand tohand; so the Numidian had the better in darting jave­lins at him from a distance, and when his horse's frightwould not suffer him to advance. Among the infan­try, the twelfth legion having lost the greater part oftheir number, kept their ground, rather through shame,than that they had strength to maintain it. Theymust soon however have fallen back, had not the thir­teenth legion, led up from the reserve to the front,supported the doubtful conflict. Mago at the sametime brought up to oppose this fresh legion the Gauls,drawn also from his reserve. These being routedwithout much difficulty, the spearmen of the eleventhlegion formed themselves into a circular body, and at­tacked the elephants, which were now throwing theline of the infantry into confusion; and by dischargingtheir spears at them, hardly any of which were thrownin vain, as the beasts were close together they turnedthem all on the line of their own party. Four of them,overpowered with wounds, fell. On this the first line ofthe enemy began to give way; when all the infantry,seeing the elephants turning about, rushed on in orderto increase the terror and confusion. As long how­ever as Mago stood at the head of the troops, theranks, retreating leisurely, kept up the spirit of thebattle; but when they saw him fall on receiving awound through his thigh, and carried lifeless out ofthe field, instantly all betook themselves to flight.