OCR Output C. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 103 this so suddenly; because certainly you would not take allyour armor on the behalf of robbers, and against a peopleof kin to you, without some very great cause for your so do­ing. But we have an item that the Romans are pretended,and that we are supposed to be going to betray this city tothem ; for some of your men have lately made a clamor aboutthose matters, and have said they are come to set their me­tropolis free. Now wo cannot but admire at these wretchesin their devisjng such a lie as this against us; for they knewthere was no other way to irritate against us men that werenaturally desirous of liberty, and on that account the bestdisposed to fight against foreign enemies, but by framing atale as if we were going to betray that most desirable thing,liberty. But you ought to consider what sort of people theyare that raise this calumny, and against what sort of peoplethat calumny is raised, and to gather the truth of things notby fictitious speeches, but out of the actions of both parties;for what occasion is there for us to sell ourselves to the Ro­mans 1 while it was in our power not to have revolted fromthem at the first, or, when we had once revolted, to have re­turned under their dominion again ; and this while the neigh­boring countries were not yet laid waste: whereas it is notan easy thing to be reconciled to the Romans, if we were de­sirous of it, now they have subdued Galilee, and are therebybecome proud and insolent; and to endeavor to please them,at the time when they are so near us, would bring such a re­proach upon us as were worse than death. As for myself,indeed, I should have preferred peace with them before death ;but now wc have once made war upon them, and fought withthem, I prefer death, with reputation, before living in capti­vity under them. But farther, whether do they pretend thatwe, who are the rulers of the people, have sent thus privatelyto the Romans, or hath it been done by the common suffragesof the people ? If it bo ourselves only that have done it, letthem name those friends of ours that have been sent, as ourservants, to manage this treachery. Hath any one beencaught as he went out on this errand, or seized upon as hocame back ? Are they in possession of our letters ? How