OCR Output XILUS. NILUS. 435 from the month of the river upon the plain ofthe Delta. (Diodor. i. 38—40.) This, however,though partially true, will not account for the inun­dation of Upper Aegypt, or for the periodical risingof the rivers N. of Aethiopia, It was attributedto the connection of the Nile with the great South­ern Ocean, whose waters, from long exposure to thesun, were deprived, it was thought, of their salineingredients in their course through the Nile-valley.(Diodor. i. 40.) By Ephoras (ed. Man, p. 23) itwas derived from exudation through the sands; whileHerodotus suggested that the vertical position of thesun in winter reduced the waters of Southern Libyato the lowest ebb. But this hypothesis kept out ofricht their overflow in summer. Agatharchides ofOiidus, who wrote in the second century b. c, was thefirst to divine the true cause of the inundation.. Therains which fall in May upon Aethiopia occasion therise of the rivers that flow northward from it. As thesun in his progress from the equator to the tropic ofCancer becomes successively vertical over points N. ofthe equator, the air is heated and rarified, and thecold currents set in from the Mediterranean to restorethe equilibrium. They pass over the heated plainsof Aegypt; but as soon as they reach the loftymountains ot Abyssinia, they descend in torrents ofrain. Sheets of water fall impetuously from theirnorthern slope upon the grand tableau, from thegrand tableau upon the plains which contain thesources of the White and Blue Rivers, and throughtheir channels and confluents pass into the Nile. Inthe hut days of June, or at the beginning of July,tba rise is risible in Aegypt: about the middle ofAugust the dykes are cut, and the flood drawn offK- and W. by innumerable canals; and betweenthe 20th and 30th of September the maximumheight is attained. For a fortnight the flood re­mains stationary: about the 10th of November, ithas perceptibly diminished, and continues to decreaseslowly until it attains its minimum; at this timeits depth at Cairo is not more than 6 feet, and inthe Delta its waters are nearly stagnant. In thetime of Herodotus (ii. 13) the height of a good Nilewas 15 or 16 cubits; and around the statue of theKile, which Vespasian brought from Aegypt and setup in the Temple of Peace, were grouped sixteendiminutive figures emblematic of these measures.(Piin. xxxvi. 9. e, 14.) The rise of the Nile wascarefully noted on the Kilometers at Primis (Jbrim),Elr-phantine, and Memphis; and the progress or de­cline of the inundation was reported by letters to diffe­rent parts of Aegypt, in order that the farmers mightcalculate on the time when sowing might commence.A flood of the height of 30 feet is ruinous,—under­mining houses, sweeping away cattle, and destroyingthe produce of the fields. The land, also, is renderedtoo spongy for the ensuing seed-time; the labours oftillage are delayed; and epidemic diseases arise fromtie lingering and stagnant waters. On the otherhaad, if the waters do not rise 24 feet, the harvestb scanty; and if they are below 18, terrible faminesare the consequence, such as that of which Diodorusspeaks (i. 84). and which are not unknown in morerecent times (Volney, Voyage en Syrie et en Egypte,Tci L ch. 11; Abdallatiphs Hist, of Egypt, p. 197,White's edit.), during which the starving populationlure been driven to feed on human flesh. Upper and Middle Egypt during the inundationprt?*nt the appearance of a vast inland lake, boundedty mountains. But the usual moans of intercourse•re not interrupted, since the immediate banks of the river are seldom under water, which is dischargedthrough the frequent apertures of the dykes, at firstupon the verge of the desert, and afterwards uponthe land nearer the flood. The Delta, however, beingdevoid of hills,is,during an extraordinary ri.se, laid en­tirely under water, and the only means of communi­cation between the towns and villages arc boats andrafts- Herodotus (ii. 97) compares the appearanceof Lower Aegypt at this season to the Aegean sea,studded by the Sporades and Cyclades. As the direct highway between the Mediterra­nean and Mcroe, the Nile, in all periods, at leastduring the prosperous ages of Aegypt, presenteda busy and animated spectacle. The Aegyptians,who shunned the sea as the element of the destroy­ing Typhon, regarded their river with affection andreverence, as the gift and emblem of the creatingand preserving Osiris. Its broad and capaciousbosom was in all seasons of the year studded withriver-craft, from the raft of reeds to the statelyBaris or Nile barges. Up the Nile to the marketsof Diospolis passed the grain and fruits of the Delta;and down the stream came the quarried limestone ofthe Thebaid to the quays of Sais and Canopus. -Nobridge spanned the river during its course of 1500miles; and the ferrying over from bank to bank wasan incessant cause of life and movement. Thefishers and fowlers of the Nile diversified the scene.Respecting the qualities of the fish there is con­siderable discrepancy among ancient writers — tomedescribing it as coarse or insipid, others as highlynutritive and delicate in its flavour. (Athen.vii. p. 312.) Fifty-two species of fish are said tobe found in the Nile. (Russegger, Reisen, vol. i.p. 300.) Of these the genus Stlurus was the mostabundant. Fish diet is well suited to the languidappetites of a hot climate; and the Israelites, whenwandering in the desert, regretted the jbth as wellas the vegetables of Aegypt. (Numbers, xi. 5.)They were caught in greatest abundance in thepools and lakes during the season of inundation.In the marshy districts of the Delta, where grain,owing to the spongy and bibulous character of thesoil, could not be raised, the inhabitants lived prin­cipally upon fish dried in the sun ; and, in latertimes at least, they were salted, and exported ingreat quantities to the markets of Greece and Syria.The modes of catching them are represented inthe paintings, and were the line, the net, and thoprong. (See Abdallatiph, ap. Rosellini, M. C. vol. i.p. 230.) The great extent of marsh land in Aegypt,and the long continuance of the inundation, causedit beyond all other countries to abound in water­fowl. The fowlers are represented in the paintingsas spreading nets, or as rowing in their boats amongthe aquatic plants, in which the birds nestled,and knocking them down with sticks. The uso ofdecoy-birds was not unknown; and smoked or saltedwild-fowl were an article of export. The ediblewater-fowl are mostly of the goose and duck {anas)tribe; the quail also is mentioned by Herodotus (ii.77) as among tho Bpecies that were dried in thosun and slightly salted for home consumption andexport. The Fauna of the Nile were the hippopotamusand the crocodile, with many lesser species of thosaurian genus. In the more remote ages bothwere found through the whole course of the river(Diodor. i. 35), although at present the hippopo­tamus rarely descends below the second Cataract,or the crocodile below 27° N. hit. The chase of tile FF 2