OCR Output STYLE OF TACITUS. 1) custom, who preferred to call his work libri de officiis scripti, ratherthan to omit the participle. Now Tacitus, for the sake of rapidity inhis narrative, left such words to be supplied by the reader, as oftenas he thought there could be no danger of mistake: Hist. L, 31,Longinum exarmant, quia non ordine mililiae (superior) sed e Galbaeamicis . . . erat; Hist. IH., 82, Vitelliani sola desperations (adjuti)ruebant; Hist. IV., 84, Plurimi Ditem patrem insignibus, quae inipso manifesta aut per ambages (significata) conjectant; Hist. V., 5,Judaei mente sola (visibile) unumque numen inielligunt; Hist. I., 80,Pessimus quisque in occasionem praedae, scil. intentus; Agr. 30,Spent in nostris manibus (positum) habebant; Hist. HI. 62, Exerd-ius immane quantum (aucto) animo exitium valentis ut finem belliaecepii; Hist. I., 83, Pietas vestra acrius quam considerate (demon-strata) excitavit. A few of these examples have escaped the notice of commenta­tors ; others, through a forgetfulness of this license, have been in­correctly understood: Agr. 5, Electus quem contubernio (dignum)existimaret; Hist. IH., 33, Defossa eruere, faces in manibus(gerentes), like the English " torch in hand." Nor ought the fol­lowing to be thought harsh, Hist. I., 31, Alexandriam praemissos at-que inde rursus (revocatos) refovebat. Frequent also is that kind of pragnantia to which I may ventureto give the name structura contracta, of which the most familiarexamples are Olympia vincere, or ponlem jungere. In Tacitus Ifind navare bellum, i. e., operam navare bello; Hist. IV., 37, adliberandum obsidium; Hist. H., 60, Fidem absolvit; Hist. V., 11,Proelia serebant, i. e., manus conserebant proeliis; Hist. II., 34,Ne miles segne otium tereret, i. e., segni otio tempus. Some­times he has the same, even when he. gains nothing in brevity.Hist, in., 56, Ut nube atra diem obtenderent, which differs notmore from the common ut nubem atram diei obtenderent, thanurbem muris circumdare differs from urbi muros. See Hist. II., 2,Formam deae paucis disserere. Editors ought to have recognisedthe same usage in Hist. III., 3, Hue illuc tracturus interpretatio-nem, i. e., res interpretatione. To the same head I refer, Hist. I., 42,In utrumque latus transverberatus. 12. By attraction not brevity indeed, but rapidity is favored; thenumber of words is not diminished, but of pauses, and the membersof the sentences are more closely connected together. Nouns areattracted from their state of apposition, and are forced into the rela­tion of adjectives. Hist. I., 65, Uno amne discretis, i. e., una re,amne; Hist. IV., 56, Celerum rulgus, i. e., ceteri, vulgus; Hist.III. 41, Aderant vis el peevnia et ruentis fortunae novissima libido. 2*