OCR Output Chap. II.J AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 81 The servile conspiracies and servile wars, breaking out insunw-everywhere, illustrate their management as respects police, tions of theIn Italy the scenes of disorder, which were among the slavla-immediate painful consequences of the Hannibalic war(ii. 393), seemed now to be renewed; all at once theRomans were obliged to seize and execute in the capital150, in Minturnae 450, in Sinuessa even 4000 slaves (621). 133.Still worse, as may be conceived, was the state of theprovinces. At the great slave-market at Delos and inthe Attic silver-mines about the same period the revoltedslaves had to be put down by force of arms. The waragainst Aristonicus and his "Heliopolites" in Asia Minorwas in substance a war of the landholders against therevolted slaves (P. 55). But worst of all, of course, was The firstthe condition of Sicily, the chosen land of the plantation Siciliansystem. Brigandage had long been a standing evil there,slare war-especially in the interior; it began to swell into insurrec­tion. Damophilus, a wealthy planter of Euna (Castro-giovanni), who emulated the Italian lords in the indus­trial investment of his living capital, was attacked andmurdered by his exasperated rural slaves; whereupon thesavage band flocked into the town of Enna, and thererepeated the same process on a greater scale. The slavesrose en masse against their masters, killed or enslaved them,and summoned to the head of the already considerableinsurgent army a juggler from Apamea in Syria who knewhow to vomit fire and utter oracles, formerly as a slavenamed Eunus, now as head of the insurgents styledAutiochns king of the Syrians. And why not? A fewyears before another Syrian slave, who was not even aprophet, had in Antioch itself worn the royal diadem of theSeleucidae (P. 66). The Greek slave Achaeus, the brave"general " of the new king, traversed the island, and notonly did the wild herdsmen flock from far and near to thestrange standards, but the free labourers also, who bore nogoodwill to the planters, made common cause with therevolted slaves. In another district of Sicily Cleon, aCilician slave, formerly in his native land a daring bandit,followed the example which had been set and occupiedAgrigentum; and, when the leaders came to a mutualunderstanding, after gaining various minor advantages theysucceeded in at last totally defeating the praetor LuciusHypsaeus in person and his army, consisting mostly ofvol. in. a r