OCR Output OE THE ROMAN EMPIRE. ■head of the effeminate troops .of Egypt and Syria, encounter, witfc.any hopes of victory, the legions of .Europe, whose irresistiblestrength appeared to support the brother of Tacitus. But thefortune and activity of Probus triumphed over every obstacle.The hardy veterans of his rival, accustomed to cold climates,sickened and consumed away in the sultry heats of Cilicia, wherethe summer proved remarkably unwholesome. Their numbers werediminished by frequent desertion, the passes of the mountains werefeebly defended; Tarsus opened its gates, and the soldiers of J!k>rxianus, when they had permitted him to enjoy the imperial titleabout three months, -delivered the empire from civil war by the J«ly.easy sacrifice of a peince whom they despised l0. The perpetual revolutions of the throne had so perfectly erazed Their familyevery notion of hereditary right, .that the family of an unfortunate scurfr/.'"0t>"emperor was incapable of exciting the jealousy of his successors.The children of Taoitus and Elorianus were permitted to descendinto a private station, and to mingle with the general mass of thepeople. Their poverty indeed became an additional safeguard totheir innocence. When Tacitus was elected by the senate, heresigned his ample patrimony to the public service an act of ge­nerosity specious in appearance, but which evidently disclosed hisintention of transmitting the empire to his dependents. The onlyconsolation of their fallen state was the remembrance of transientgreatness, and a distant hope, the child of a flattering prophecy, that,at the end of a thousand years, a monarch of the race of Tacitusmould arise, the protector of the senate, the restorer of Rome, andthe conqueror of the whole earth The peasants of Illyricum, who had already given Claudius and Cna raster a nl . . . elevation of Aurelian to the sinking empire, bad an equal right to glory in the themperjeelevation of Probus *\ Above twenty years before, the emperor Probus'Valerian, with his usual penetration, had discovered the rising meritof the young soldier, on whom he conferred the rank of tribune, U u 9, long