OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 151 subjects with the fame contemptuous indifference, asserted withoutcontrol his sovereign privilege of lust and luxury. The most worthless of mankind are not afraid to condemn in Dris">»«n» ot the army. others the fame disorders which they allow in themselves; and canreadily discover some nice difference of age, character, or station, tojustify the partial distinction. The licentious soldiers, who hadraised to the throne the dissolute son of Caracalla, blushed at theirignominious choice, and turned with disgust from that monster, tocontemplate with pleasure the opening virtues of his cousin Alex­ander the son of Mamæa. The crafty Mæsa, sensible that her grand­son Elagabalus must inevitably destroy himself by hia own vices,had provided another and surer support of her family. Embracinga favourable moment of fondness and devotion, she had persuadedthe young emperor to adopt Alexander, and to invest him with thetitle of Cæsar, that his own divine occupations might be no longer cIared Cæsar» 0 A.D. 221. interrupted by the care of the earth. In the second rank that ami­able prince soon acquired the affections of the public, and excitedthe tyrant's jealousy, who resolved to terminate the dangerous com­petition either by corrupting the manners or taking away the lifeof his rival. His arts proved unsuccessful; his vain designs wereconstantly discovered by his own loquacious folly, and disappointedby those virtuous and faithful servants whom the prudence of Mamæahad placed about the person of her son. In a hasty sally of passion,Elagabalus resolved to execute by force what he had been unable tocompass by fraud, and by a despotic sentence degraded his cousinfrom the rank and honours of Cæsar. The message was received inthe senate with silence, and in the camp with fury. The Prætorianguards swore to protect Alexander, and5 to revenge the dishonouredmajesty of the throne. The tears and promises of the tremblingElagabalus, who only begged them to spare his life, and to leavehim in the possession of his beloved Hierocles, diverted their justindignation j and they contented themselves with empowering their prefects