OCR Output A. D. 15.] 59 OF TACITUS. advanced, it was too slippery for their feet. Theweight of the soldiers' armour, and the depth of wa­ter, made the management of the javelins almost im­practicable. The Cheruscans, on the contrary, werefighting in their own element; they were used to fensand marshes; their stature was large, and their spearsof a length to wound at a distance. The legions beganto give way, when night came on, and put an end tothe unequal conflict. The barbarians were too muchflushed with success to complain of fatigue, or tothink of rest. During the night they cut a channelfor the waters, and from the neighbouring hills letdown a deluge into the valley. The plains were laidunder water; and the half-finished works being car­ried a way by the flood, the soldier saw that his labourwas to begin again. Csecina had been forty years inthe service. A man of his experience, who had knownthe viccissitudes of war, was not to be disconcerted.He saw, between the morass and the hills, a plain ofsolid ground, large enough for a small army. Tothat spot, having weighed all circumstances, lie judged• it his best expedient to send the wounded with theheavy baggage, and in the mean time to confine theGermans in their woods. For this purpose he sta­tioned the fifth legion in the right wing, and the one-and-twent.ieth in the left; the first legion led the van,and the twentieth brought up the rear. LXV. The night in both camps was busy and un­quiet, but from different causes. The barbarianspassed their time in jollity and carousing; warlikeBongs and savage howlings kept a constant uproar,while the woods and valleys rung with the hideoussound. In the Roman camp the scene was different:pale gleaming fires were seen; no sound, save that oflow and hollow murmurs; the soldiers lay extendedat length under the palisades, or wandered from tentto tent, fatigued and weary, yet scarce awake. CeocinaWas disturbed by a terrible dream: he thought thatQuintilius Varus emerged from the fens; and callingupon him to follow, waved his hand to point the way.Unwilling to obey the summons, Crocina pushed thephantom from him. At break of day, the legions,