OCR Output 526 [book XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. more; because he was maimed: while the*law required that this dignity should belongto none but such as had all their membersentire. But now one cannot but here admirethe fortitude of Phasaelus; who, perceivingthat he was to be put to death, did not thinkdeath any terrible thing at all: but to die thusby the means of his enemy, he thought mostpitiable and dishonourable: and therefore,since he had not his hands at liberty, but thebonds he was in prevented him from killinghimself thereby, he dashed his head against agreat stone, and thereby took away his ownlife; which he thought to be the best thinghe could do in such distress as he was in. Itis also reported, that when he had made agreat wound in his head, Antigonus sent phy­sicians to him, in order to cure it; and byordering them to infuse poison into the woundkilled him. However, Phasaelus hearing,before he was quite dead, by a certain wo­man, that his brother Herod had escaped theenemy, underwent his death cheerfully; sincehe now left behind him one who would re­venge his death, and who was able to inflictpunishment on his enemies. CHAP. XIV. ov the ingratitude of the kino of arabia; and ofherod's successful application to the roman se­nate; BY WHOM HE IS MADE KING OF THE JEWS. THE great misfortunes of Herod did notdiscourage his mind, but propelled himto new and surprising undertakings. For hewent to Malchus, king of Arabia, whom hehad formerly been very kind to, in order toreceive somewhat by way of requital, now hewas in more than ordinary want of it; anddesired he would let him have some money;either by way of loan, or as his free gift; onaccount of the many benefits he had receivedfrom him. For not knowing what was be­come of his brother, he was in haste to re­deem him out of the hand of his enemies; aswilling to give three hundred talents for theprice of his redemption. He also took withhim the son of Phasaelus, a child of but sevenyears of age, that he might be a hostage forthe repayment of the money. But there came messengers from Malchus to meet him, bywhom he was desired to be gone: for thatthe Parthians had laid a charge upon him notto entertain Herod. This, however, was onlya pretence, which he made use of, that hemight not be obliged to repay what he owedhim: and this he was farther induced to, bythe principal men among the Arabians; thatthey might cheat him of what sums they hadreceived from his father Antipater, and whichhe had committed to their fidelity. He madeanswer that he did not intend to be trouble­some to them by his coming thither; but thathe desired only to discourse with them aboutcertain affairs, that were to him of the greatestimportance. Hereupon he resolved to go away, andaccordingly took the road to Egypt. Andthen it was that he lodged in a certain tem­ple; for he had left a great many of his fol­lowers there. On the next day he came toRhinocolura; and there he heard what badbefallen his brother. Though Malchus soonrepented of what he had done, and came run­ning after Herod; but with no manner ofsuccess. For he was gone a great way off,and made haste into the road to Pelusium.And when the stationary ships that lay therehindered him from sailing to Alexandria, hewent to their captains: by whose assistance,and that out of great regard to him, he wasconducted into Alexandria, and was retainedthere by Cleopatra. Yet was she not able toprevail with him to stay there, because hewas making haste to Rome; even though theweather was stormy, and he was informedthat the affairs of Italy were very tumultuousand in great disorder. So he set sail for Pamphylia: and fallinginto a violent storm, he had much difficultyto escape to Rhodes; with the loss of theship's burden. And there it was that two ofhis friends, Sappinas and Ptolemeus, met withhim. And as he found that city very muchdamaged in the war against Cassius, thoughhe were in necessity himself, he neglectednot to do it a kindness; but did what hecould to recover it to its former state. Healso built there a three-decked ship: and setsail thence, with his friends, for Italy; and * This law of Moses, that the priests were to be with­out blemish, as to all the parts of their bodies, is in Lerit.wi. 17—24. And Spanheim, on the parallel place of the history Of the War, I. 9, 13. observes that the same lawobtained at Athens also.