OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. setting fire to this funeral pile of Grecian learning, had not one oftheir chiefs, of more refined policy than his brethren, dissuadedthem from the design; by the profound observation, that as longas the Greeks were addicted to the study of books, they would neverapply themselves to the exercise of arms "'. The sagacious coun­sellor (should the truth of the fact be admitted) reasoned like an ig­norant barbarian. In the most polite and powerful nations, geniusof every kind has displayed itself about the same period; and theage of science has generally been the age of military virtue andsuccess. IV. The new sovereigns of Persia, Artaxerxes and his son Sapor, Conquest ofhad triumphed (as we have already seen) over the house of Arsaces. the Persians.Of the many princes of that ancient race, Chosroes, king of Arme­nia, had alone preserved both his life and his independence. Hedefended himself by the natural strength of his country; by theperpetual resort of fugitives and malcontents; by the alliance of theRomans, and, above all, by his own courage. Invincible in arms,during a thirty years war, he was assassinated by the emissaries ofSapor king of Persia. The patriotic satraps of Armenia, who as­serted the freedom and dignity of the crown, implored the protec­tion of Rome in favour of Tiridates the lawful heir. But the sonof Chosroes was an infant, the allies were at a distance, and thePersian monarch advanced towards the frontier at the head of anirresistible force. Young Tiridates, the future hope of his country,was saved by the fidelity of a servant; and Armenia continuedabove twenty-seven years a reluctant province of the great monarchyof Persia "\ Elated with this easy conquest, and presuming on thedistresses or the degeneracy of the Romans, Sapor obliged the stronggarrisons of Carrhæ and Nisibis to surrender, and spread devasta­tion and terror on either side of the Euphrates. The loss of an important frontier, the ruin of a faithful and Valeriannatural ally, and the rapid success of Sapor's ambition, affected the East. 0'0 Vol. I. N n Rome