OCR Output CHAP.XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. more essential duties. But his just confidence wasplaced in the veterans who had fought under his bannerin the Persian and African wars; and although that gal­lant band was reduced to five thousand men, he under­took, with such contemptible numbers, to defend a circleof twelve miles, against an army of one hundred and fiftythousand barbarians. In the walls of Rome, which Be-lisarius constructed or restored, the materials of ancientarchitecture may be discerned and the whole fortifica­tion was completed, except in a chasm still extant be­tween the Pincian and Flaminian gates, which the pre­judices of the Goths and Romans left under the effectualguard of St. Peter the apostle.1 The battlements or bas­tions were shaped in sharp angles; a ditch, broad anddeep, protected the foot of the rampart; and the archerson the rampart were assisted by military engines—thebalista, a powerful cross-bow, which darted short butmassy arrows; the onagri, or wild asses, which, on theprinciple of a sling, threw stones and bullets of an enor­mous size.m A chain was drawn across the Tiber; thearches of the aqueducts were made impervious, and themole or sepulchre of Hadrian" was converted, for.the firsttime, to the uses of a citadel. That venerable structure,which contained the ashes of the Antonines, was a circu­lar turret rising from a quadrangular basis: it was cover­ed with the white marble of Paros, and decorated by thestatues of gods and heroes; and the lover of the artsmust read with a sigh, that the works of Praxiteles orLysippus were torn from their lofty pedestals, and hurl- k The accurate eye of Nardini (Roma Antica, lib. 1. c. 8. p. 31.) could distinguishthe tamnltuarie opera di Balisario. 1 The fissure and leaning in the upper part of the wall, which Procopius observed,(Goth.lib-. 1.e. 13.) is visible to the present hour. (Donat. Roma Vetus, lib. 1. c.17.p. 53, 54.) * Lipsius (Opp. tom. 3. Poliorcet. lib. 3.) was ignorant of this clear and conspicu­ous passage of Procopius. (Goth. lib. 1. c. 21.) Theengine was named ova^o;, thewild ass, a calcitrando. (Hen. Steph. Thesaur. Linguae Graec. tom 2. p. 1340,1341.tom. 3. p. 877.) I have seen an ingenious model, oontrived and executed by generalMelville, which imitates or surpasses the art of antiquity. "The description of this mausoleum, or mole, in Procopius, (lib. 1. c. 25.) is thifirst and best. The height above the walls u-^eSov c; Xiflou (JoXiv. On Pfolli's greatplan, the sides measure two hundred and sixty Hnglishfeet. VOL. V. N