OCR Output 55 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X. set up in his royal palace, which his predecessors had framed;and what thing soever there was besides, which they worshippedas a god. And when he had thus purged all the country, he call­ed the people to Jerusalem, and there celebrated the feast ofunleavened bread, and that called the Passover. He also gavethe people for Paschal sacrifices, young kids of the goats andlambs, thirty thousand, and three hundred oxen for burnt of­ferings. The principal of the priests also gave to the priestsagainst the passover, two thousand and six hundred lambs; theprincipal of the Levites also gave to the Levites five thousandJambs and five hundred oxen, by which means there was greatplenty of sacrifices; and they offered those sacrifices according tothe laws of Moses, while every priest explained the matter, andministered to the multitude. And indeed there had been noother festival thus celebrated by the Hebrews from the times ofSamuel the prophet; and the plenty of sacrifices now was theoccasion that all things were performed according to the laws,and according to the custom of their forefathers. So when Jo-siah had after this lived in peace; nay, in riches and reputationalso among all men, he ended his life in the manner following. CHAP. V. How Josiah fought with Neco [king of Egypf], and was twund-ed and died in a little afterward: As also how Neco carriedJehoahaz, who had been made king, into Egypt, and deliveredthe kingdom to Jehoiakim: And [lastly] concerning Jeremiahand Ezekiel. § 1. JXow Neco, king of Egypt, raised an army, amimarched to the river Euphrates, in order to fight with theMedes and Babylonians, who had * overthrown the dominionof the Assyrians, for he had a desire to reign over Asia. Nowwhen he was come to the city Mendes, which belonged to thekingdom of Josiah, he brought an army to hinder him from pass­ing through his own country, in his expedition against theMedes. Now Neco sent a herald to Josiah, and told him,That "he did not make this expedition against him, but was"making haste to Euphrates; and desired that he would not"provoke him to fight against "him, because he obstructed his"march to the place whither he had resolved to go." But Jo­ * This is a remarkable passage of chronology in Josephus, that about the latterend of the reign of Josiah, the Medes and Babylonians overthrew the empire of theAssyrians; or in the words of Tobit's continuator, that "before Tobias died, lie"heard of the destruction of Nineveh, which was taken by Nebuchodonosor the"Babylonian, and Assuerus die Mede," Tob. ziv. 15.—See Dean Prideaux Con-nection at tht year 612.