OCR Output 2*r, MAGNA GRAECIA. MAGDOLUM. on Palestine, Travels, vol. ii. p. 71.; How this lastassertion is to be proved dues not appear. Theauthority of Joseph us has been quoted for a Mag-dab near Gamala, and consequently on the east of thesea {Vita, § 24); but the reading ia corrupt.(Robinson, I c. p. 279t note.) [G. W.] MAG'DOLUM (McryaoAo-, Herod, ii. 159; hutMoySuAov in LXX.; the Migclol of ihe Old Testa­ment (Exod. xiv. 2; Numb, xxxiii. 7; 2 Kings,xxiii. 29; Jerem. xliv. 1, xlvi. 14; Ezek. xxix.10, xxx. G; It. Anton, p. 171), a town of LowerAegypt which stood about 12 miles S. of Pelusium,on the coast-road between Aegypt and Syro-Phoe­nicia. Here, according to Herodutus, (/. c.) Pha­raoh-Xecho defeated the Syrians, about 608 B.C.Eusebius (Praepar. Erang. ix. 18), apparently re­ferring to the same event, calls the defeated army*l Syrians of Judah." That the Syrians should haveadvanced so near the frontiers of Egypt as the Del­taic Magdolum, with an arid desert on their flanksand rear (comp. Herod, iii, 5) teems extraordinary;neither is the suspicious aspect of the Battle of Mag-dohis diminished by the conquest of Cadytis, a con­siderable city of Palestine, being represented as itsresult. The Syrians might indeed have pushedrapidly along the coast-road to Aegypt, if they hadpreviously secured the aid of the desert tribes ofArabs, as Cambyses did before his invasion ofAegypt (eomp, Herod, iii. 7). Calmct's Diet, of theBible, s. v. Megiddo ; Winer, Bibt. Reabciirterbuch,vol. ii. p. 93, note 2; Champollion, L'Egypte, vol.ii. p. 79. [W.B.D.] MAGELLI, a Ligurian tribe, mentioned only byPliny (iii. 5. a. 7). They have been supposed tohave occupied the Valdi Shigella, in the Apennines,N. of Fhrrence; but though it is certain that theEigurians at one time extended as far to the E asthn, it is very improbable that Pliny should haveincluded such a tribe in his description of RomanI.iguria. The name of the Shigella is found inI'rociipitu (B. G. iii. 5) where he speaks of n place(%wpio¥) called Mucclla (Moi/WAXa), situated adav's journey to the N. of Florence. [E. H. B.] MAGETO'BRIA or ADMAGETO'BIMA, inGallia. Probably the true name ended in -brim or• hriga. A ri ovist us, the German, defeated the forcesof the Galli in a fight at this place. (Caes. B. G. t.81.) The site of Matretobria is unknown. Theresemblance of name induced D'Anville (Notice, §*c)to fix it at Moigte tie Brvie, near the confluence ofthe Ognon and the Sonne, a little above Pontarlier.There is a story of a broken urn, with the inscrip­tion maoetob., having been found in the Sadne in1802. But this story is of doubtful credit, and theurn cannot be found now. Walckenaer supposesA mage on the Brenrhin, which is west of Faucogneyand east of Luxeuit, to correspond best to the indi­cations in Caesar's text. But Caesar does not giveUi the least indication of the position of Mage-tobria. [G.L] MAGI. [Media.] MAGIOVINTCM or MAGIOVIKIUM, in Bri­tain, a station placed in three of the itinera ofAntoninus at the distance of 24 miles to the N. ofVerulaiuium. Its site is generally supposed to be atFenny Stratford. [C. R. S.] MAGNA (/r.4n(. p.484: GeogT Rawim.). 1. Atown or station in Britain, the site of which is nowoccupied hy Kenchenter, in Herefordshire. In bothof the above works the word is in the plural form,Magnis, moat probably for Magna Castris. Indeed,: the extraordinary extent of the plat*, M ascertainedby its remains, renders this suggestion more thanprobable. The walls, now almost entirely destroy end,enclosed an area of from 20 to 30 acres. LeUn-i.Bpeaking of Kenchester, says: — u Ther hath benfownd 'nostra memoria Uteres Britannici; ct ex eis-dem canale*, aqnae ductus, tesMflata pavimeote.fragmentum catenulae aureae, calcar ex argenxo/byiddc other strawng things." The te*e*L*t«lpavements, mentioned by Eeland, have, of late yean,been partially laid open. The only lapidary inscrip­tion which appears on record, as discovered at AVa-c/iester, is a fragment with the name of the etnper«rNumerian; but coins and miscellaneous antiquitiesare still, from time to time, ploughed up. 2. A station in Britain, on the line of the RomanWall, mentioned in the Notitia; it also occurs in Grog.Kavenn.; and probably on the Budge Cup, as Maita,Its site is that of Carvoran, a Little to the S. of theWall, on a high and commanding pobition near thevillage of Greenhead. There seems but little doubt of Carroran beinrthe site of this Magna; although, unlike many ofthe Notitia stations on the Wall, its position has notbeen identified by inscriptions. The Notitia plan*at Magna the second cohort of the Dalmatians. Atleast two inscriptions found here mention the Ham it,but none name the Dalmatians. The Hamii do notappear to be recorded in any other inscriptions, andthey are not mentioned by that name in the Notitia.Hodgson (Roman Wall and South Tindale, p. 2U5)considers that these auxiliary troops were fromAparnenia in Syria, at the confluence of the OrunTesand Marsyas, 62 miles from Aleppo, which is stilla large place, and called IIamah, and, in anrirnltimes, llama. This conjecture seems feasible, a* theNotitu mentions the Conors Prima Apamcnorum a*quartered in Egypt; and also as some altars dedi­cated to the Syrian goddess have been discovered alCarvnran. [C. K. S.] MAGNA GRAE'CIA (h utyd\n *EAAai), »■*the name given in ancient times by the Greek*themselves to the assemblage of Greek colonieswhich encircled the shores <<f Southern Italy. Thename is not found in any extant author earlier thanPolyoma; but the latter, in speaking of the eitir»of Magna Graecia in the time of Pytliagoras, o>r»the expression, "the country that was then calledMagna Graecia" (Pol. ii. 39); and it appears cer­tain that the name must have arisen at an earlyperiod, while the Greek colonies in Italy wete aftthe height of their power and prosperity, and be­fore the states of Greece proper had attained a*their fullest greatness. But the omission <f thename in Herodotus and Thurydides, even in pas­sages where it would liavo been convenient as ageographical designation, seems to show that it wasnot in their time generally recognised as a distinc­tive appellation, and was probably first adopted assuch by the historians and geographers of Litertimes, though its origta must, have been den*wifrom a mm-h earlier age. It is perhaps still uasnssignificant, that the name is not found in Srylaa.though that author attaches particular importanceto the enumeration of the Greek cities ia Italy asdistinguished from those of the barbarians. Nor is the use of the term, even at a later period,very fixed or definite. Strabo seeim to imply thatthe Greek cities of Sicily were included under theappellation; but this is certainly opposed to the morageneral uasge, which confined the farm to the outs*