OCR Output 108 [BOOK III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. "N turned home, having spent forty days in thewhole work. They also brought with themof the excellent fruits which the land bare,and gave an account of the great quantity ofthe good things the country afforded, whichwere motives to the multitude to go to war;but then they terrified them again with thegreat difficulty there was in obtaining it, say­ing, that the rivers were so large and deepthat they could not be passed over, the hillswere so high that they could not travel alongfor them, and the cities were strengthenedwith walls and firm fortifications. They toldthem also, that they found at Hebron the pos­terity of the giants. Accordingly these spies,who had seen the land of Canaan, when theyperceived that all these difficulties weregreater there than they had met with sincethey came out of Egypt, were affrighted atthem themselves, and endeavoured to intimi­date the multitude also. From this account the people supposed thatit was impossible to get the possession of thec( jntry,* and when the congregation wasdissolved, they, their wives, and children,continued their lamentations, as if God wouldnot indeed assist them, but only promisedthem fair; they also again blamed Moses,and made a clamour against him and hisbrother Aaron, the high-priest; accordinglythey passed that night very ill, and with con-tumelous language against them; but in themorning they ran to a congregation, intend­ing to stone Moses and Aaron, and then toreturn into Egypt/f But of the spies there were Joshua the sonof Nun, of the tribe of Ephraim, and Calebof the tribe of Judah, who were afraid of theconsequence, and came into the midst ofthem, and stilled the multitude: desiring themto be of good courage, and neither to con­demn God, as having deceived them, neitherto hearken to those who had affrighted themby telling what was not true concerning theCanaanites, but believe those that encouragedthem to hope for good success, and that theyshould gain possession of the happiness pro­mised them, because neither the height ofmountains, nor the depth of rivers, could * This was the effect of their unhelief; a sin withwhich they are repeatedly charged in the Scriptures, andwhich was the more aggravated in them, as they had wit- hinder men of true courage from attemptingthem, especially while God would take careof them beforehand, and be assistant to them."Let us go then," said they, "against ourenemies, and have no suspicion of ill success,trusting in God to conduct us, and followingthose that are to be our leaders." Thus didthese two exhort them, and endeavour to pa­cify the rage they were in; but Moses andAaron fell on the ground, and besought God,not for their own deliverance, but that hewould now put a stop to what the peoplewere unwarily doing, and would bring theirminds to a quiet temper, which were now dis­ordered by their present passion. The cloudalso now appeared, and stood over the taber­nacle, declaring the presence of God to bethere. J CHAP. XV. OF THE PUNISHMENT THREATENED TO THE ISRAELITES ON ACCOUNT OF. THEIR REBELLION: SKETCH OF THE POWER AND INFLUENCE OF THE JEWISH LEGISLATOR. MOSES now came boldly to the multi­tude and informed them, that God wasmoved at their abuse of him, and? would in­flict punishment upon them, not indeed suchas they deserved for their sins, but such asparents inflict on their children, in order totheir correction; for, he said, that when hewas in their tabernacle, and was bewailingwith tears that destruction which was comingupon them, God put him in mind what thingshe had done for them, and what benefits theyhad received from him, and yet how ungrate­ful they had proved: that just now they hadbeen induced by the timorousness of the spiesto think their words truer than his own pro­mise to them, and that on this account, thoughhe would not destroy them all, nor utterly ex­terminate their nation, which he had honouredmore than any other part of mankind; hewould not permit them to take possession ofthe land of Canaan, nor enjoy its happiness,but would make them wander in the wilder­ness, and live without a fixed habitation, andwithout a city, for forty years together, as apunishment for their transgression; but at the nessed so many signal and repeated exertions of the Divinepower. B. t Numb. xiv. 4. } Numb. xiv. 10.