OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 9 of Thrace and Bithynia, which languish under the chap.weight of Turkish oppression, still exhibit a rich X1v'prospect of vineyards, of gardens, and of plentifulharvests; and the Propontis has ever been renownedfor an inexhaustible store of the most exquisite fish,that are. taken in their stated seasons, without skill, .and almost without labour. But when the passagesof the Streights were thrown open for trade, theyalternately admitted the natural and artificial richesof the north and south, of the Euxine, and of theMediterranean. Whatever rude commodities werecollected in the forests of Germany and Scythia, asfar as the sources of the Tanais and the Borysthenes;whatsoever was manufactured by the skill of Europeor Asia; the corn of Egypt, and the gems and spicesof the farthest India, were brought by the varyingwinds'into the port of Constantinople, which, formany ages, attracted the commerce of the ancientworld. The prospect of beauty, of safety, and of wealth, Foundationunited in a single spot, was sufficient to justify the" echoice of Constantine. In the actual state of the city *, the palace and gar- Extent.dens of the Seraglio occupy the eastern promontory,the first of the seven hills, and cover about one hun­dred and fifty acres of our own measure. The seatof Turkish jealousy and despotism is erected on thefoundations of a Grecian republic; but it may besupposed that the Byzantins were tempted by theconveniency of the harbour to extend their habita­tions on that side beyond the modern limits of theSeraglio. The new walls of Constantine stretched * Sae in the Memoires de l'Academie, torn. xxxv. p. 747—758, a dissertationof AT. d'Anville on'the extent of Constantinople. He takes the plan inserted inthe Imperiuin Orientale of Banduri as the most complete; but, by a series ofvery nice observations, he reduces the extravagant proportion of the scale, andinstead of 9500, determines the circumference of the city as consisting of about7800 French toises.