OCR Output OF T.HE ROMAN EMPIRE. 215 1 he had every where opposed the invaders in person; and in citherfortune, had united with the ablest conduct the most undauntedresolution. But in several obstinate engagements against the vete­ran legions of Rome, the Persian monarch had lost the flower of histroops. Even his victories had weakened his power. The favour­able opportunities of the absence of Alexander, and of the confu­sions that followed that emperor's death, presented themselves irevain to his ambition. Instead of expelling the Romans, as he pre­tended, from the continent of Asia, he found himself unable towrest from their hands the little province of Mesopotamia S*. The reign of Artaxerxes, which from the last defeat of the Par- Character and . maxims of thians lasted only fourteen years, forms a memorable æra in the Artaxerxes.history of the East and even in that of Rome. His character seems- A' D* 2+°"to have been marked by those bold and commanding features, tha*generally distinguish the princes who conquer, from those whoinherit, an empire. Till the last period of the Persian monarchy,,his code of laws was respected as the ground-work of their civil andreligious policy53. Several of his sayings are preserved. One ofthem in particular discovers a deep insight into the constitution ofgovernment. " The authority of the prince,'' said Artaxerxes, " must'* be defended by a military force; that force can only be main-u tained by taxes; all taxes must, at last, fall upon agriculture; and'* agriculture can never flourish except under the protection of"justice and moderation JV Artaxerxes bequeathed his new em­pire, and his ambitious designs against the Romans, to Sapor, a sonnot unworthy of his great father; but those designs were tooextensive for the power of Persia, and served only to involve bothnations in a long series of destructive wars and reciprocal calamities. The Persians, long since civilized and corrupted, were very far Militaryfrom possessing the martial independence, and the intrepid hardi-ness, both of mind and body, which have rendered the northernbarbarians masters of the world. The science of war, that con­stituted the more rational force of Greece and Rome, as it now does8 of