OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 387 stance, the conflagration would have speedily expired chap.in the deficiency of materials. I shall not recapitulate XL"the disasters of the Alexandrian library, or the invo­luntary flame that was kindled by Caesar in his owndefence. But if we gradually descend from the ageof the Antonines to that of Theodosius, we shall learnfrom a chain of contemporary witnesses, that theroyal palace and the temple of Serapis no longer con­tained the four, or the seven hundred thousand volumes,which had been assembled by the curiosity and mag­nificence of the Ptolemies. The emperor Heraclius - had punished a tyrant,and ascended his throne; and the memory of hisreign is perpetuated by the transient conquest, andirreparable loss, of the eastern provinces. After thedeath of Edocia, his first wife, he disobeyed the pa­triarch, and violated the laws by his second marriagewith his niece Martina. But the opinion of an illegi­timate birth is sufficient to distract the choice, andloosen the obedience of the people: the ambition ofMartina was quickened by maternal love, and per­haps by the envy of a stepmother; and the aged hus­band was too feeble to withstand the arts of con­jugal allurements. Constantine, his eldest son, en­joyed in a mature age the title of Augustus, but theweakness of his constitution required a colleagueand a guardian, and he yielded, with secret reluct- a. d. C38,ance, to the partition of the empire *. The senate July 4tIuwas summoned to the palace to ratify or attestthe association of Heracleonas, the son of Martina:the imposition of the diadem was consecrated by theprayer and blessing of the patriarch; the senatorsand patricians adored the majesty of the great em­peror and the partners of his reign; and as soon as • Mr. Gibbon has in general abundantly supplied his history with references tothe authors from whose works his information is derived. But in the series ofGreek empe/ors, from Heraclius to Isaac Angelus, there are many circumstancesin respect to which no authority is quoted. I mention this circumstance, that Imay not be suspected of having carelessly omitted the references. Edit. cc2