OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189 The emperor Maximus, who had advanced as far as Ravenna, ^°a"^softo secure that important place, and to hasten the military prepa­rations, beheld the event of the war in the more faithful mirror ofreason and policy. He was too sensible, that a single town couldnot resist the persevering efforts of a great army; and he dreaded,lest the enemy, tired with the obstinate resistance of Aquileia,should on a sudden relinquish the fruitless siege, and march directlytowards Rome. The fate of the empire and the cause of freedommust then be committed to the chance of a battle; and what armscould he oppose to the veteran legions of the Rhine and Danube?Some troops newly levied among the generous but enervated youthof Italy; and a body of German auxiliaries, on whose firmness inthe hour of trial, it was dangerous to depend. In the midst of thesejust alarms, the stroke of domestic conspiracy punished the crimesof Maximin, and delivered Rome and the senate from the calamitiesthat would surely have attended the victory of an enraged barba­rian. The people of Aquileia had scarcely experienced any of the Murder ofcommon miseries of a siege, their magazines were plentifully sup- Msason.10 8ndplied, and several fountains within the walls assured them an in- A' /Lri^*"exhaustible resource of fresh water. The soldiers of Maximinwere, on the contrary, exposed to the inclemency of the season,and the horrors of famine. The naked country was ruined, theriver3 filled with the slain and polluted with blood. A spirit ofdespair and disaffection began to diffuse itself among the troops;and as they were cut off from all intelligence, they easily believedthat the whole empire had embraced the cause of the senate, and thatthey were left as devoted victims to-perish under the impregnablewalls of Aquileia. The fierce temper of the tyrant was exasperatedby disappointments, which he imputed to the cowardice of hisarmy; and his wanton and ill-timed cruelty, instead of strikingterror, inspired hatred and a just desire of revenge. A party of Prætorian