OCR Output CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 259 « the people, when invested with no authority, than in"your convening the senate, when divested of all au-"thority. Only put it to Ike test, and you will then see*' to your cost, whether the people's zeal in asserting"their liberty, or your ambition to maintain your usurp-"ed authority, will be most strenuously exerted. Youtalk to us of a war begun against us by the Sabines,as if the Roman people had a war more formidablethan with you, who, under the mask ot legislators, havesubverted all law and justice in the Republic. Youhave suppressed the assemblies both of the senate andpeople; you have abolished annual magistrates, theright of election and governing by turns, the only me-"thod which is consistent with liberty, and though but"private persons, assume the ensigns and the power of"despotism. Upon the expulsion of the kings, there"were only Patrician magistrates; after the secession,"plebeian magistrates were also created; pray, withwhich of these interests are you connected? Is it withthat of the people? What then nave you done withtheir concurrence? Are you in the Patrician interest?And yet for very near twelve months have neverconvened the senate, and now that you have doneit, pretend to debar them, the privilege of speakingconcerning the state of the Republic? Trust not, I ad-"vise you, too much to our want of courage; for wo"are now convinced that our present oppression within"the city, is more intolerable than any thing we have't. to fear without it." CHAP. XL. / Cornelius Maluginensis vindicates the Decemvirs. JT1ORATIUS haying thus expressed himself with grentvehemence, while the decemvirs could neither give ventto their fury, nor calmly put up with the treatment theybad met with; being quite uncertain how the affairwould terminate; C. Claudius, uncle to Appius, the de­cemvir, rose up to speak, but he employed rather en-treatie.s than reproach, conjuring his nephew, by theijtapes of his. brother Appius, the decemvir's father.,.