OCR Output CHAP. LI. 357 fused the terror of their arms; and the appearance ofmilitary force revived and confirmed the loyalty of thefaithful. The inconstant tribes accepted, with humblerepentance, the duties of prayer, and fasting, and alms;and, after some examples of success and severity, themost daring apostates fell prostrate before the sword ofthe Lord and of Caled. In the fertile province of Ya-manah,* between the Red sea and the gulf of Persia, ina citynot inferior to Medina itself, a powerful chief, hisname was Moseilama, had assumed the character of aprophet, and the tribe of Hanifa listened to his voice. Afemale prophetess was attracted by his reputation: thedecencies of words and actions were spurned by these fa­vourites of heaven ;b and they employed several days inmystic and amorous converse. An obscure sentence ofhis Koran, or book, is yet extant ;c and, in the pride ofhis mission, Moseilama condescended to offer a partitionof the earth. The proposal was answered by Mahometwith contempt: but the rapid progress of the impostorawakened the fears of his successor; forty thousandMoslems were assembled under the standard of Caled;and the existence of their faith was resigned to the eventof a decisive battle. In the first action, they were re­pulsed with the loss of twelve hundred men; but the a See the description of the city and country of Al Yamanah, in Abulfeda, 1 ><•-script. Arahi»-, p. 60, 61. In the thirteenth century, there were some mins, and afew palms: but in the present century, the same ground is occupied bythe vision*and arms of a modern prophet, whose tenets are imperfectly known. (Niebuhr,Description de 1'Arabie, p. 296—301.) '• Their first salutation may be transcribed, but cannot be translated. It wa»thus that Moseilama said or sung :— Surge tandem itaque strenue permolenda, nam stratus tibi thorus eat. Ant in propatulo tentoriosi velis, aut in abditiorecubiculou malis; Aut suspinam te 1mmi exporrectam fustigabo, si velis, aut si malis manibus iit-dibusque nixarn. Aut si veins ejus (Priapi) gemino triente, aut si mails totus veniarn. Imo, totus venito, O Apostole Dei clamabat fsmina. Id ipsum diceba.. Moseilama mihi quoque suggessit Deus. The prophetess Segjah, after the fall of her lover, returned to idolatry; but, underthe reign of Moawiyah, she became a Mussulman, and died atBassora. (Abulfeda,Anna), vers. Keiske, p. 63. *' See this text, which demonstrates a god from the work of generation, in Abul-pharagius (Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 13. and Dynast, p. 105.) and Abulfeda.(Annal. p. 63.)