OCR Output «2 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V, .. -. , sharing in the plunder of \Vii, might repair to the dicta­tor's camp. The other was the opinion of Ap. Claudius,who spoke warmly against this bounty, as being an un­precedented prodigality, and inconsistent with equity amisound policy. That if it was not judged proper, thai themoney taken from the enemy should be lodged in thetreasury, exhausted as it was by so many wars, he wouldadvise, that it should be appropriated to the payment ofthe soldiers, which would be an ease to the people, in re*gard to the taxes. That thereby every family would beequally sensible of the benefit of this largess, and therapacious hands of idle citizens would not deprive thesoldiers of the rewards so justly doe to their labour, it be­ing usually observed, that the bravest and most forwardin battle, were the least active and expert at plundering.Liciniu;, on the other hand, insisted, that the money*o reserved and appropriated, would be a source of end­less discontent, and occasion impeachments, and seditions,and new laws. 'It was better, therefore,' pursued he,to conciliate to the senate; the good will of the multi­tude, by a bounty which would relieve their presentindigence, exhausted as they were, by the contributionsof so many years; and make them sensibl<: of the fruits•tof persevering in a war, in Which they might almostbe said to have grown old. That what each man shouldtake with his own hand from the enemy, and bringhome, would give him more pleasure and satisfactionthan a gift of much greater value, at the pleasure ofanother. That the dictator, in referring the matter tothe senate, had no other view on earth, but to sparehimself envy and reproach. That the senaie also ought,from a like regard to themselves, to refer the whole tothe disposal of the people, and suffer them to take theplunder, as chance should throw it in their way.' Thisadvice, which was the most popular for the senate, ap­peared to be the safest: wherefore, proclamation wasmade, that such as wanted to share in the plunder. ofVeii, had only to repair to the camp, which, in conse­quence, was soon filled with prodigious numbers thatflocked thither.