OCR Output ™x THE TRANSLATOR which the spirit of the author would have evaporated, andthe freedom of a loose paraphrase, which would not haveanswered the purpose intended by it. In one word, Ihave endeavoured, as far as I could, to transfuse the sen­timents and fire of Livy into a British botly: but how farI have succeeded, I must leave to the impartial public. To render the purchase easy, and that I may have theopinion of the public, before I should proceed farther, Ihave confined myself at present to five Books.—If thesealready translated be read with a proper degree of atten­tion, a translation for the rest will not be perhaps neces­sary: however, should this specimen be well received,the rest may soon follow. Although the work of TITUS Livius have immortalizedhis name, he was too regardless of popular applause, orplaces of distinction, and too much delighted with philoso­phical retirement and humble privacy, to leave manyvestiges of his rank, employments, adventures, or fortune.It is, however, generally agreed, that he was born at Pa­dua, and descended p? no obscure family, since it had thehonour to give consuls to the Republic of Rome.—It is.also known, that he lived in the Augustan age;* thathe dedicated to Augustus, those Dialogues, which hepublished on the philosophical questions of the times, andthat this made him known, and recommended him to thefavour of that emperor: That he afterwards wrote aTreatise on Eloquence, inscribed to his son, of which.Quintilian makes honourable mention.—We also know,that he began to write his history at Rome, where hemight have recourse to such memorials and original pa­pers, that had been preserved in the capitol, as were pro­per to set him to rights concerning the origin of the city,and to remove those Intricacies and doubts, into which.fabulous traditions had involved it. That after he wassufficiently master of his subject, he retired to Naples,where his labours might meet with fewer interruptions.That some time after this, he read some passages of hishistory to the emperor Augustus and Maecenas, of which,they formed so favourable an opinion, that the emperor * T. Liv. lib. 1. cap. 19.