OCR Output 4oS THE DECLINE AND FALL this occasion the injury was aggravated by the insult, and the sense,of private interest was quickened by that of national honour. Theconquest of Macedonia, as we have already observed, had deliveredthe Roman people from the weight of personal taxes. Thoughthey had experienced every form of despotism, they had now en­joyed that exemption near five hundred years; nor could they pa­tiently brook the insolence of an Illyrian peasant, who, from hisdistant residence in Asia, presumed to number Rome among the tri­butary cities of his empire. The rising fury of the people was en­couraged by the authority, or at least the connivance, of the senate;and the feeble remains of the Prætorian guards, who had reason toapprehend their own dissolution, embraced so honourable a pretence,and declared their readiness to draw their swords in the service oftheir oppressed country. It was the wish, and it soon became thehope, of every citizen, that after expelling from Italy their foreigntyrants, they should elect a prince who, by the place of his resi­dence, and by his maxims of government, might once more deservethe title of Roman emperor. The name, as well as the situation ofMaxentius, determined in his favour the popular enthusiasm.Maxemius Maxentius was the son of the emperor Maximian, and he had declared em- f a> i « peror at married the daughter of Galenus. His birth and alliance seemeda°d!'3c6- to offer him the fairest promise of succeeding to the empire; but^8th October. .n;S vices and incapacity procured him the fame exclusion from-the dignity of Cæsar, which Constantine had deserved by a danger­ous superiority of merit. The policy of Galerius preferred suchassociates, as would neither disgrace the choice, nor dispute the com-■ mands of their benefactor. An obscure stranger was therefore-raised to the throne of Italy, and the son of the late emperor of-the West was left to enjoy the luxury of a private fortune in a villaa few miles distant from the capital. The gloomy passions of his•foul, sliame, vexation, and rage, were inflamed by envy on the.news.of .Constantine's success j but the hopes of Maxentius revived with 8