OCR Output PALAESTINA. FALAKSTLNA. whirl], with its deep fissures, the earthquakes towhich it is subject, and the saline .sulphureoussprings, which have a temperature of 46° cent., at­test the volcanic origin of this depression. "The other substances met with in the neighbour­hood are no less corroborative of the cause assigned.On the shore of the lake .Mr. Maundrell found akind of bituminous stone, which I infer from bindescription to be analogous to that of Radusa inSicily. "It would appear that, even antecedently to theeruption mentioned in Scripture, bitumen-pitsabounded in the plain of Siddim. Thus, in the ac­count of the battle between the kings of Sodom andGomorrah and some of the neighbouring princes((hit. xiv.), it is said, 'And the vale of Siddimwas full of slime-pits,' which a learned friend as­sures me ought to be translated fountains of bitumen. "But besides this volcanic eruption, which broughtabout the destruction of the cities, it would appearthat the very plain itself in which they stood wasobliterated, and that a lake was formed in its stead.This is collected, not only from the apparent non­existence of the valley in which these cities wereplaced, but likewise from the express words ofScripture, where, in speaking of the wars whichtook place between the kings of Sodom and Go­morrah and certain adjoining tribes, it is added thatthe latter assembled in the vale of Siddim, which isthe Silt 0'. e. the Dead) Sea. "It is therefore supposed that the lake itself occu­pies the site of this once fertile valley, and that itwas produced by the waters of the Jordan, which,being without an outlet, would fill the hollow untilthe surface over which they spread themselvesproved sufficiently large to cause the loss arisingfrom evaporation to bo equivalent to the accessions itreceived from the rains and snows of the mountainsin which it took its rise. ■' This hypothesis assumes that previously to theexistence of the Dead Sea the Jordan must have hadan outlet, either into the Mediterranean or into theRed Sea; and accordingly when it was discovered byBurekhardt, that there actually existed a longi­tudinal valley, parallel to the course which the Jor­dan took before it reached the Dead Sea, as well usto the larger axis of that expanse of waters, runningfrom north to south, and extending from the south­ern termination of the Dead Sea to the extremity ofthe gulf of Akaba, it was immediately concludedthat this valley was in fact the former bed of theJordan, which river, consequently, prior to the ca­tastrophe by which the Dead Sea was produced, hadflowed into this arm of the Red Sea. "Briefly, then, to recapitulate the train of phe­nomena by which the destruction of the cities mighthave been brought about, I would suppose that theriver Jordan, prior to that event, continued its coursetranquilly through the great longitudinal valleycalled El-Arabak, into the gulf of Akaba; that ashower of stones and sand from some neighbouringvolcano first overwhelmed these places; and that itseruption was followed by a depression of the wholeof the region, from some point apparently inter-mediate between the lake of Tiberias and the moun­tains of Lebanon, to the watershed in the parallel of30°, which occurs in the valley of Et-Arabah abovementioned. 1 would thence infer that the waters ofthe Jordan, jjent up within the valley by a range ofmountains to the east and west, and a barrier ofelevated table-land to the bouth, could find ho outlet. and consequently by decrees formed alike ^Amost depressed |>ortion; which, however, did iM <imat once, and therefore is not recorded by Scnfcoas a part of the catastrophe (see the [nvsi^ iEzekhf, xlvii. 8. indicating, if it be inkrpoiiliterally, the gradual manner in which the Ivuj .>was formed, and likewise perhaps the tinted*a tradition that its waters once hail tbeir eik id liRed Sea), though reference is made in arK*l*rasage to its existence in what was before tlw ndkjSiddim. "If, as Robinson states, extensive bedsofakoetimmediately round its margin, the solution U Icontents of these by the tvaters of the lutf T«account for their present comp-^itiun, its siltiincreasing nearly to the point of saturiti'-n,the gradual accession of waters from !ibotf,«won evaporating, would leave their salt behind; rtthe bitumen might either have existed then Jviously as a consequence of antecedentvoUaokWtions, or have been produced by the very ooereference is hen; made. I do not, however, see what is pained l*tributing the destruction of these cities, as •have preferred to do, to the combustion uf the«li f bitumen, as the latter could have been iri*by no natural agent with which we are icqatiexcept the volcano itself, which therefore maHany case be supposed instrumental.and, being in")will alone enable us to explain all the facts rw« "It must at the same time be confessed thi! ■remains to be done before this or any otbr 4nation can be received as established: and I vtappointed to find that amongst the crowds of tn*who have resorted to the Holy Land within Umtwenty years, so few have paid that attention tphysical structure of the country which id-''* Iplace the subject beyond the limits of aoai*controversy. 11 The geologist, for instance, would still fbd ii ihis while to search the rocks which bound \heSea, in order to discover if possible whether ttsany crater which might have been in a *eruption at the period alluded to; he should uowhether there are any proofs of a sinking iground, from the existence of rap tils anywiio*the course of the river, and whether south Ilake can be discovered traces of the ancmlthe Jordan, ;is well as of a barrier of lava strtacross it, which latter hypothesis Von Burii.ccive, is still inclined to support; nor .-' iomit to examine whether vestiges of these Jcities can he found, as some have stated, satebeneath the waters, and buried, like Pompeii*heaps of the ejected materials.** VI. Historical Geogkatht.1. Earliest period. — The first notice wiof the inhabitants of Palestine is in iht 4Abraham's immigration, when the Canaar.it*, the land, from whom it receive,! its e > --:I lation, " the land of Canaan.** ((Jen. xit- i,7, llf, &c.) The limits of their country an-defined in the genealogy of Canaan; bat tubution among the various families of thai p»is nowhere clearly stated. "Canaan > ji!his first-born, and Heth, and the Jtrbns-ite, IAnionic, and the liirgasite, and the Hn IArkite, and the Sinite, and the Arrant r. iZeniarite, and the Hamathite: and aftrrwasthe families of the Cauaamtcs spread abnatj