OCR Output OFTHEROMANEMPIRE. 523 gratifications. They embraced every opportunity of over-reachingthe idolaters in trade; and they pronounced secret and ambiguousimprecations against the haughty kingdom of Edom \ Since the Jews, who rejected with abhorrence the deities adored The Jewsby their sovereign and by their fellow-subjects, enjoyed however the which fol-free exercise of their unsocial religion; there must have existed some chHst!th ians, a other cause, which exposed the disciples of Christ to those severities {^J^erelfrom which the posterity of Abraham was exempt. The difference ''g"00 of theirbetween them is simple and obvious; but according to the senti足ments of antiquity, it was of the highest importance. The Jewswere a nation; the Christians were a seSi: and if it was natural forevery community to respect the sacred institutions of their neigh足bours, it was incumbent on them to persevere in those of their an足cestors. The voice of oracles, the precepts of philosophers, and theauthority of the laws, unanimously enforced this national obligation.By their lofty claim of superior sanctity, the Jews might provokethe Polytheists to consider them as an odious and impure race. Bydisdaining the intercourse of other nations they might deserve theircontempt. The laws of Moses might be for the most part frivolousor absurd; yet since they had been received during many ages by alarge society, his followers were justified by the example of mankind;and it was universally acknowledged, that they had a right to prac足tise what it would have been criminal in them to neglect. Butthis principle which protected the Jewish synagogue, afforded notany favour or security to the primitive church. By embracing thefaith of the Gospel, the Christians incurred the supposed guilt of anunnatural and unpardonable offence. They dissolved the sacred tiesof custom and education, violated the religious institutions of theircountry, and presumptuoufly despised whatever their fathers hadbelieved as true, or had reverenced as sacred. Nor was this apostacy(if we may use the expression) merely of a partial or local kind jsince the pious deserter who withdrew himself from the temples ofEgypt or Syria, would equally disdain to seek an asylum in those X x x 2 of