OCR Output ,'WARS OF THE JEWS. .- Book I. conceal the money he had used in hiring men [to write the let-' ters]; for he brought in an aecount of his expences, amounting' to two hundred talents, his main pretence for which was thelaw-suit he had been in with Sylleus. So while all his rogue-'! tits, even' those of a lesser sort also, were covered by his greatervillainy, while all the examinations by torture proclaimed hisattempt to murder his father, and the letters proclaimed hissecond attempt to murder his brethren; yet did noone of thosethat came to Rome inform him of his' misfortunes in Judea, al­though seven months had intervened between his conviction andhis return, so great was the hatred which they all bore to him.; And perhaps they were the ghosts of those-brethren of his thathad been murdered, that stopped the mouths of those that in­tended to have told him. He then wrote from Rome, and in­formed [his friends] that he would soon come to them, and howhe was dismissed with honour by Caesar. 3. Now the king,being desirous to get this plotter against himintohishands,and berngalso afraid lest heshould some waycometo the knowledge how his affairs stood, and be upon his guard,he dissembled his anger in his epistle to him, as in other points,he wrote kindly to him, and desired him to make haste, because,if he came quit kly, he would then lay aside the complaints hehad against his mother; for Antipater was not ignorant thathis mother had been expelled out of the palace. However, hehad before received a letter, which contained an account of thedeath of Pheroras, at * Tarentum, and made great lamentationsat it; for which some commended him, as being for his ownuncle; 'though probably this confusion arose on account of hishaving thereby failed in his plot [on his father's life], and histears were more for the loss of him that was to have been sub­servient therein, than for [an uncle] Pheroras: moreover, asort of fear came upon him as to his designs, lest the poisonshould have been discovered. However, when he was in Cilicia,he received the forementioned epistle from his father, and madegreat haste accordingly. But when he had sailed to Celenderis,a suspicion came into his mind relating to his mother's misfor­tunes; as if his soul foreboded some mischief to itself. Thosetherefore of his friends which were the most considerate, ad­vised him not rashly to goto his father, till he had le irned whatwere the occasions v/hy his mother had been ejected, becausethey were afraid that he might be involved in the calumnies thathad been cast upon his mother: but those that were less con­siderate, and had more regard to their own desires of seeing theirnative country, than to Antipater's safety, persuaded him tomake haste home, and not, by delaying his journey, afford his- father*This Tarcntum ha« coins ctiil extant, as RehtiJ informs us here in his note.