OCR Output as. 1088.] 231 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. citadel held out still. Whence it was thatthe king knowing that the proposals of dig­nities and rewards would encourage the sol­diers to greater actions, promised that he whoshould first go over the ditches that were be­neath the citadel, and should ascend to thecitadel itself, and take it, should have thecommand of the entire people conferred uponhim. So they all were ambitious to ascend;and thought no pains too great, in order toascend thither, out of their desire of the chiefcommand. However Joab, the son of Ze-ruiah, prevented the rest; and as soon as hewas got up to the citadel, cried out to theking, and claimed the chief command. When David had cast the Jebusites out ofthe citadel, he rebuilt Jerusalem, and namedit the city of David; and abode there all thetime of his reign. But for the time that hereigned over the tribe of Judah only in He­bron, it was *seven years and six months.Now when he had chosen Jerusalem to be hisroyal city, his affairs did more and more pros­per, by the providence of God; who took carethat they should improve and be augmented.tHiram also, the king of the Tyrians, sentambassadors, and made a league of mutualfriendship and assistance with him. He alsosent him presents,cedar-trees, and mechanics,and men skilful in building and architecture;that they might build him a royal palace atJerusalem. Now David made buildings roundabout the lower city; he also joined the cita­del to it, and made it one body; and when he had encompassed all with walls, he appointedJoab to take care of them. It was Davidtherefore who first cast the Jebusites out ofJerusalem, and called it by his own name,the city of David. For under our forefatherAbraham it was called Salem or $ Solyma.But after that time some say that Homermentions it, by that name of Solyma. Forhe named the temple Solyma, according tothe Hebrew language; which denotes secu­rity. Now the whole time from the warfareunder Joshua our general, against the Ca-naanites; and from that war in which he over­came them and distributed the land amongthe Hebrews: (nor could the Israelites evercast the Canaanites out of Jerusalem untilthis time, when David took it by siege;) thiswhole time was five hundred and fifteenyears. I shall now make mention of Araunah, whowas a wealthy man among the Jebusites, butwas not slain by David in the siege of Jeru­salem; because of the good will he bore tothe Hebrews; and a particular benignity andaffection which he had to the king himself;which I shall take a more seasonable oppor­tunity to speak of ||a little afterwards. NowDavid married other wives over and abovethose which he had before: he had also con­cubines. The sons which he had were innumber eleven, whose names were§ Amnon,Emnos, Eban, Nathan, Solomon, Jeban, Elien,Phalna, Ennaphen, Jenae, Eliphale, and adaughter, Tamar. Nine of these were born other kings of Judah's sepulchres, which, as the authors ofthe Books of Kings and Chronicles say, were in the city ofDavid, so does Josephus still say they were in Jerusalem.Tbe sepulchre of David seems to have been a knownplace in the several days of Hyrcanus, of Herod, and ofSt. Peter. Antiq. XIII. 8. XIV. 7. Acts ii. 29. Nowno such royal sepulchres have been found about MountSion: but are found close by the north wall of Jerusalem.Which I suspect to be therefore these very sepulchres.See the note on chap. 15. In the mean time Josephus'sexplication of the lame and the blind, and the maimed, asset to keep this city or citadel, seems to be the truth:and gives the best light to that history in our Bible. Mr.Ottiua truly observes, ap. Havercamp. p. 305. that Jose­phus never mentions Mount Sion by that name; as takingit for an appellative, as I suppose, and not for a propername. He still either styles it the citadel, or the uppercity. Nor do I see any reason for Mr. Ottius's evil sus­picions about this procedure of Josephus's.* From An. 1095 to 1088, B. C.t 2 Sam. v. 10.J Some copies of Josephus have here Solyma or Sa- lem; and others Hierosolyma or Jerusalem. The latterbest agrees to what Josephus says elsewhere, of tbe War,VI. 10, that this city was called Solyma or Salem beforethe days of Melchisedec, but was by him called Hieroso­lyma or Jerusalem. I rather suppose it to have been socalled after Abraham had received that oracle JehovahJireh, the Lord will see or provide, Gen. xxii. 14. Thelatter word Jireh, with a little alteration prefixed to theold name Salem, Peace, will be Jerusalem. And sincethe expression, God will see, or rather God will providehimself a lamb for a burnt-offering, verse 8, is there saidto have been proverbial till the days of Moses; this seemsto me the most probable derivation of that name: whichwill then denote that God would provide peace by thatLamb of God which was to take away the sins of theworld. However, that which is put into double brackets-can hardly be supposed the genuine words of Josephus;as Dr. Hudson well judges. I! Chap. xiii. § This number (eleven) and most of these names differgreatly from those in 1 Chron. iii. 1—9.