OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 151 tained leave to make us of their own customs, and this underthe patronage of Nicolaus of Damascus; for Agrippa gave sen­tence, that he could not innovate. And if any one hath a mindto know this matter accurately, let him peruse the hundred andtwenty-third, and hundred and twenty-fourth book of the his­tory of this Nicolaus. Now, as to this determination of Agrip­pa, it is not so much to be admired, for at this time our nationhad not made war against the Romans. But one may well beastonished at the generosity of Vespasian and Titus, that after sogreat wars and conquests which they had from us, they shoulduse such moderation. But I will now return to that part of myhistory whence I made the present digression. 3. Now it happened that in the reign of Antiochus the Great,who ruled over all Asia, that the Jews, as well as the inhabi­tants of Celossyria, suffered greatly, and their land was sorely har-rassed: For while he was at war with Ptolemy Philopater, andwith his son who was called Epiphanes, it fell out, that thesenations were equally sufferers, both when he was beaten, andwhen he beat the others: So that they were very like to a shipin a storm, which is tossed by the waves on both sides; and justthus were they in their situation in the middle between Antio­chus' prosperity and its change to adversity. But at length,when Antiochus had beaten Ptolemy, he seized upon Judea:And when Philopater was dead, his son sent out a great armyunder Scopas, the general of his forces, against the inhabitantsof Celcesyria, who took many of their cities, and in particularour nation; which, when he fell upon them, went over to him.Yet was it not long afterward when Antiochus overcame Sco­pas, in a battle fought at the fountains of Jordan, and destroyeda great part of his army. But afterward, when Antiochus sub­dued those cities of Celcesyria which Scopas had gotten into hispossession, and Samaria, with them the Jews of their own ac­cord, went over to him, and received him into the city [Jeru­salem], and gave plentiful provision to all his army, and to hiselephants, and readily assisted him when he besieged the garrisonwhich was in the citadel of Jerusalem. Wherefore Antiochusthought it but just to requit the Jews' diligence and zeal in hisservice: So he wrote to the generals of his armies, and to hisfriends, and gave testimony to the good behaviour of the Jewstowards him, and informed them what rewards he had resolvedto bestow on them for that their behaviour. I will set downpresently the epistles themselves, which he wrote to the generalsconcerning them, but will first produce the testimonies of Poly-bius of Megalopolis, for thus does he speak, in the sixteenthbook of his history: "Now Scopas, the general of Ptolemy's"army, went in haste to the superior parts of the country, and