OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 487 "qui olim Britannias curaverat pro praefectis. Cum chap. . . . . . xxiii."itaque rei idem fortiter instaret Alypius, juvaretque 1 "provincial rector, metuendi globi flammamm prope "fundamenta crebris assultibus erumpentes, fecere "locum exustis aliquoties operantibus inaccessum: "hocque modo, elemento destinatius repellente, "cessavit inceptum. Iisdem diebus legatis," &c. On a different subject, besides the unexceptionable testimony of this pagan historian, we find the same occurrence related by three contemporary writers, Ambrose, Chrysostom, and Gregory Nazianzen. The last of these asserts, as his words are translated by Mr. Gibbon, "This preternatural event was not dis- "puted by the infidels." The original words of Gregory are as follows: To Se sv its^r^rov van ba.vft.a, kxi aSs roif aSetts ouiroi; ontirsfj,evov \e%u>v ep^ofiai, &c. Perhaps disbelkved would have been a more literal translationthan disputed. Mr. Gibbon does not mention anyancient writer who denies the truth of the fact. Thestory is related by several succeeding authors, withsome variations and additional circumstances, but, forthe most part, copying the three foregoing fathers.Of modern writers *, Basnage, in his Histoire desJuifs, endeavours to controvert the truth of the story,and the authority of the Christian authors; but heconfines his observations to Socrates, Sozomen, andTheodoret, who wrote at a somewhat later period. Basnage urges the following objection to the testi­mony of Sozomen: That writer concludes his account "Lardner expresses himself as follows: Julian, in the fragment of someoration or epistle, having taken notice how often the Jewish temple had beendestroyed, and was not yet restored, adds, "I say not this by way of reproach,"for I also have designed (or have had a design) to raise that temple which has"been so long in ruins to the honour of the God who is there worshipped." Inconsidering the passage in Ammianus, he expresses himself thus: "Great weight."was laid on the testimony of Ammianus Marcellinus. who was a heathen and an"impartial historian." But then it has been said by some, that he had this accountfrom the Christians, and took it up without examination. To which I would addthat he was credulous, as appears from many things in his history. He mighttherefore, without scruple, record a miraculous interposition which had been repeat,ed to him. Lardner's Heathen Testimonies, vol. iv. p. 227 and 22H. I I 4