OCR Output 7« [book n. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS 'Now while the Hebrews made no stay, butwent on earnestly, as led by God's presence,the Egyptians supposed, at first, that theywere distracted, and were going rashly uponmanifest destruction; but when they saw thatthey were gone a great way without anyharm, and that no obstacle or difficulty fellin their journey, they made haste to pursuethem; and, hoping that the sea would becalm for them also, they put their cavalryforemost, and went down into the sea. Nowthe Hebrews, while these were putting ontheir armour, were before-hand with them,and got first over to the land on the other side,without any hurt, whence the others were en­couraged, and more courageously pursuedthem, as hoping no harm would come to themneither: but the Egyptians were not awarethat they went into a road made for the He­brews, and not for others; that this road wasmade for the deliverance of those in danger,but not for those that were earnest to makeuse of it for the other's destruction. As soon,therefore, as the whole Egyptian army waswithin it, the sea flowed to its own place, and came down with a torrent raised by stormsof wind,* and encompassed the EgyptiansShowers of rain also came down from thesky, and dreadful thunder and lightning, withflashes of fire. Thunderbolts also were dartedupon them: nor was there any thing whichGod sends upon men as indications of hisWrath, which did not happen at this time;for a dark and dismal night oppressed them,and thus did all these men perish, so thatthere was not one man left to be a messengerof this calamity to the rest of the Egyptians.tThe Hebrews were not able to containthemselves for joy at their wonderful deliver­ance, and destruction of their enemies: nowindeed, supposing themselves firmly deliv­ered, when those that would have forced theminto slavery were destroyed, and when theyfound they had God so evidently for theirprotector: and how having escaped the dan­ger they were in, after this manner, and see­ing their enemies punished in such a way asis never recorded of any other men, theywere all the night employed in singing ofhymns, and in mirth. MosesJ also composed Chaisem, i. e. the sea of Clysona, from a town situate onits western coast, much about that place where the Israel­ites passed over from the Egyptian to the Arabian shore.But as the word Clysona may denote a drowning or over­flowing with water, it is not improbable that the town builtin this place, as well as this part of the sea, might havesuch a name given it, in memory of the fate of the Egyp­tians, who were drowned herein. Well's Geography of theOld Testament, vol. ii. B. J Exod. xiv. 29. "The waters were a wall unto themon their right hand and on their left." Diodorus Siculusrelates that the Ichthyophagi, who lived near the Red Sea,had a tradition handed down to them through a long lineof ancestors, that the whole bay was once laid bare to thevery bottom, the waters retiring to the opposite shore, andthat they afterwards returned to their accustomed chan­nel with a most tremendous revulsion. (Bib. Hist. lib. iii.p. 174.) Even to this day the inhabitants of the neigh­bourhood of Corondel preserve the remembrance of amighty army having been once drowned in the bay, whichPtolomy calls Clysma. (Shaw's Travels, p. 349.) Thevery country where the event is said to have happened,in some degree bears testimony to the accuracy of theMosaical narrative. The scriptural Etham is still calledEtti; the wilderness of Shur, the Mountain of Sinai, andthe country of Paran, are still known by the same names.(Niebuhr's Travels, vol. i. p. 189, 191.) Marah's Elath,and Midian, are still familiar to the ears of the Arabs.The grove of Elim yet remains, and its twelve fountainshave neither increased nor diminished in number sincethe days of Moses. B. II Exod. xiv. 21. * These storms of wind, thunder, and lightning, at thisdrowning of Pharaoh's army, are almost wanting in our copies of Exodus, but fully extant in that of David, Ps.lxxvii. 16, 17, 18. T Exod. xiv. 28. J What some have here objected against this passage ofthe Israelites over the Red Sea, in this .one night, fromthe common maps, viz. that this sea being here aboutthirty miles broad, so great an army could not pass over itin so short a time, is a great mistake. Mons. Thevenot,an eye witness, informs us, that this sea, for about fivedays' journey, is no where more than eight or nine milesacross; and in one place but four or five miles, accordingto De Lisle's map, which is made from the best autho­rities. What has been farther objected against this passage ofthe Israelites, and drowning of the Egyptians, being mira­culous also, viz. That Moses might carry the Israelitesover at a low tide, without any miracle; while yet theEgyptians, not knowing the tide so well as he, might bedrowned upon the return of the tide, is truly absurd. Yetdoes Artapanus, an ancient heathen historian, inform us,that this was what the more ignorant Memphites, wholived at a great distance, pretended, though he confesses,that the more learned Heliopolitans, who lived muchnearer, owned the destruction of the Egyptians, and thedeliverance of the Israelites to have been miraculous.And De Castro, a mathematician, who surveyed this seawith great exactness, informs us, that there is no greatflux or reflux in this part of the Red Sea, to give a colourto the hypothesis; nay, that the elevation of the tide thereis little above half the height of a man. So vain andgroundless are these and the like evasions and subterfugesof our modern sceptics and unbelievers! and so certainly dothorough enquiries, and authentic evidence, disprove andconfute such evasions and subterfuges upon all occasions'.