OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 581 But this treacherous calm was of short duration, nor could the Max,",in pre­pares to renew Christians of the East place any confidence in the character of their jhepersceu-sovereign. Cruelty and superstition were the ruling passions of thefoul of Maximin. The former suggested the means, the latterpointed out the objects, of persecution. The emperor was devotedto the worship of the gods, to the study of magic, and to the be­lief of oracles. The prophets or philosophers, whom he revered asthe favourites of heaven, were frequently raised to the governmentof provinces, and admitted into his most secret councils. Theyeasily convinced him, that the Christians had been indebted for theirvictories to theip regular discipline, and that the weakness of poly­theism had principally stowed from a want of union and subordi­nation among the ministers of religion. A system of governmentwas therefore instituted, which was evidently copied from the policyof the church. In all the great cities of the empire, the templeswererepaired and beautified by the order of Maximin; and the offi­ciating priests of the various deities were subjected to the authorityof a superior pontiff, destined to oppose the bishop, and to pro­mote the cause of paganism. These pontiffs acknowledged, in theirturn, the supreme jurisdiction of the metropolitans or .high-priests!of the province, who acted as the immediate vicegerents of the.em~peror himself. A white robe was the ensign of their dignity; andthese new prelates were carefully selected from the most noble andopulent families. By the influence of the magistrates, and of thesacerdotal order, a great number of dutiful addresses were obtained,,particularly from the cities of Nicomedia, Antioch, and Tyre, which,artfully represented the well-known intentions of the court as thegeneral fense of, the people; solicited the emperor to consult the laws,of justice rather than the dictates of his clemency; expressed their,abhorrence of the Christians, and humbly prayed that those impi­ous sectaries might at least he excluded from the limits of their,respective territories. The answer of Maximin to the address which he