OCR Output 182 LIVY. of a size sufficient for a small chapel, and there erectedan altar. Then, calling together the plebeian matrons,and complaining of the injurious behavior of the pa­tricians, she said, ' This altar I dedicate to plebeianchastity, and exhort you that the same degree of emu­lation which prevails among the men of this state, onthe point of valor, may be maintained by the womenon the point of chastity ; and that you contribute yonrbest care, that this altar may have the credit of beingattended with a greater degree of sanctity, and bychaster women than the other.' Solemn rites wereperformed at this altar under the same regulationsnearly with those at the more ancient one; no personbeing allowed the privilege of taking part in the sacri­fices, except a woman of approved chastity, and whowas the wife of one husband. This institution, beingafterwards debased by the admission of vicious cha­racters, and not only by matrons, but women of everydescription, sunk at last into oblivion. During thisyear the Ogulnii, Cneius and Quintus, being curuleediles, carried on prosecutions against several usurers ;and these being condemned to pay fines out of the pro­duce and for the use of the public, the ediles madebrazen thresholds in the capitol; utensils of plate forthree tables, which were deposited in the chapel ofJupiter ; a statue of Jupiter in a chariot drawn by fourhorses placed on the roof; and images of the foundersof the city, in their infant state under the teats of thewolf, at the Ruminal fig-tree. They also paved withsquare stones the roads from the Capuan gate to thetemple of Mars. The plebeian ediles likewise, Lucius^Elius Pectus, and Caius Fulvius Corvus, out of moneylevied as fines on farmers of the public pastures, whomthey had convicted of malpractices, exhibited games,and consecrated golden bowls in the temple of Ceres. 24. Then came into the consulship Quintus Fabius, afifth time, and Publius Decius, a fourth. [A. U. C. 457.B. C. 205.] They had been colleagues in the censorship,and twice in the consulship, and were celebrated notmore for their glorious achievements, splendid as these