OCR Output MASSILIA. 291 MASSILTA. conclusion, that if it was wine and water, the winecame from foreign commerce, and commerce anteriorto the arrivaj of the Phocaeans ; "for the vine wasnot yet introduced into Gaul." But the vino is anative of Gallia Xarbonensis, and king Nannus mayhave bad wine of his own making. The Phocaeansn w built Massalia; and though they were con­tinually harassed by the Ligurians, they beat themoff, conquered fresh territories, and built new citiesin them. The time of the settlement of Massalia isfired by Scymnus Chios 120 years before the battleof Marathon, or B.C. 600. Strnbo (iv. p. 179) found in some of his autho­rities a story that the Phocaeans before they sailed toGallia were told by an oracle to take a guide fromArtemis of Ephesus; and accordingly they went toEphesus to ask the goddess how they should obeythe nracular order. The goddess appeared to Aris-tarrbe. one of the women of noblest rank in Ephesus,ia a dream, and bade her join the expedition, andtake with her a statue from the temple. Aristarche*ent with the adventurers, who built a temple toArtemis, and mode Aristarche the priestess. In alltih-ir colonies the Massaliots established the worshipcf Artemis, and set np the same kind of wooden»Utue, and instituted the same rites as in the mother-bty. For though Phocaea founded Massalia, Ephe-his was the city which gave to it its religion.[Ephe.si-3, VoL I. p. 834.] The Galli, as Justin calls them, learned from theMassaliots the usages of civilised life (Justin, xliii.4). to niltivate the ground, and to build walls roundtheir ti;ies. They learned to live under the rules ofUw. tw j.rune the vine, and to plant the olive. ThusGreek civility was imported into barbaric Gallia,arid France still possesses a large and beautiful city,a la>tin£ memorial of Greek enterprise. Nannus died, and was succeeded by his son Co-minoa. to whom a cunning Ligurian suggested thatMawalia would some time ruin all the neighbouringpeople, and that it onght to be stifled in its infancy.He told him the fable of the bitch and her whelps,which Phaedrus has (i- 19): but this part of the old!>tary U hardly credible. However, the king tookfcivmtage of a festival in Massalia, which Justinealla by the Roman name of Floralia, to send somesoot men there under the protection of MassaliotQ»pitality.and others in carts, concealed in hamperscovered with leaves. He posted himself with histroop* hi the nearest mountains, ready to enter thecity whpn his men should open the gates at night,"d the Massaliots were sunk in sleep and filled with*ine. But a woman spoiled the plot. She was akinsman of the king, and had a Greek for her lover.Sk wis moved with compassion for the handsomeTiaitli as ahe lay in his arms: she told him of thetreachery, and urged him to save his life. The manr*f«"i«i it to the magistrates of the city. The Li­re runs were pulled out of their hiiing-placcs andnassscred, and the treacherous king was surprised*ken he did not expect it, and cut to pieces with7000 of hU men. From this time the Massaliotsw fatal days shut their gates, kept good watch,tr«d exercised a vigilant superintendence overtfnn^erb. The traditions of the early history of Massalia*-»** in appearance of truth. Everything is natural.A woman's love founded and saved Massalia. A**nan*i tender heart saved the life of the noble£:c!t*hiran who rescued tho infant colony of Vir-pa» from de&truction ; and the same gentle and heroic woman, Pocahontas, by marrying anotherEnglishman, made peace between the settlers andthe savages, and secured for England a firm footingin Chesapeake Bay. Livy's story (v. 34) of the Phocaeans landing onthe site of Massalia at the time of Bellovesus and hisCelts being on the way to invade Italy, is of no value. When Cyrus invaded Ionia (b. c. 546), part ofthe Phocaeans left Phocaea and sailed to Alalia inCorsica, where the Phocaeans had made a settlementtwenty years before, Herodotus, who tells the his­tory of these adventurers at some length, says nothingof their settlement at Massalia. (i. 163—167.)Strabo (vi. p. 252), on the authority of Antiochus,names Creontiades as the commander of the Pho­caeans who fled from their country on the Persianinvasion, and went to Corsica and Massalia, whencebeing driven away, they founded Velia in Italy. Itis generally said that the exiles from Phocaea formedthe second colony to Massalia; but though it seemslikely enough, the evidence is rather imperfect.When Thucydides says (i. 13) that the Phocaeanswhile they were founding Massalia defeated theCarthaginians in a nival battle, we get nothingfrom this fact as to the second settlement of Mas­salia. We only learn that the Carthaginians, whowere probably looking out for trading posts on theGallic shore, or were already there, came into con­flict with the Phocaeans; and if we interpret Thucy­dides' words as we ought to do, he means at the timeof the settlement of Massalia, whenever that was,Pausanias, who is not a careless writer (x. 8. § 6),states that the Massaliots were a Phocaean colony,and a jjart of those who fled from Harpagus theMede ; and that having gained a victory over theCarthaginians, they got possession of the countrywhich they now have. The Phocaeans dedicated abronze statue to Apollo at Delphi to commemoratethe victory. There seems, then, to have heen anopinion current, that some of the exiles at the timeof the Persian invasion settled at Massalia; and ulsoa confusion between the two settlements. Justin,following Trogus, speaks of the Massaliots havinggreat wars with the Galli and Ligurcs, and of theiroften defeating the Carthaginian armies in a war thatarose out of some fishing vessels being taken, andgranting them peace They also were, he s.-iys, inalliance with Rome almost fruin the time of foundingtheir city ; but it seems that he had forgotten whathe said a little before, that it was not almost fromthat time, but even before. They also contributedgold and silver to pay the ransom when the Gallitook Rome, for which they received freedom fromtaxation (i mm unit as), and other privileges; which isvery absurd, and certainly untrue. The historicalconnection of Rome and Massalia belongs to a latertime. Massalia was built on rocky ground. The harbourlay beneath a rock in the form of a theatre, whichlooked to the south. Both the harbour and the citywere well walled, and the city was of considerableextent. On the citadel stood the Ephesium, andtho temple of Delphinian Apollo, which was a com­mon sanctuary of all the Ionian*, but the Kphesiomwas a temple of Artemis of Ephesus. The Mas­saliots had ship-houses (yewaoiKoi) and an armoury(owAo0i7*i)); and in the time of their prosperitythey had many vessels, arms, and stores of ammu­nition both for navigation and for the siege of cities;by which means they kept off the barbarians andgained the friendship of the Romans. (Strab. pp. v 2