OCR Output ah. 48.] 507 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. flight. He also took their camp, and con­tinued in the pursuit of them. He then re­called Mithridates who had been worsted,and was retired a great way off! Of whosesoldiers eight hundred fell; but of Antipater'sfifty. So Mithridates sent an account of thisbattle to Caesar; and openly declared, thatAntipater was the author of this victory, andof his own preservation. Insomuch that Caesarcommended Antipater; and made use of himin all the rest of that war in the most hazard­ous undertakings: he happened also to bewounded in one of those engagements. However, when Caesar, after some time,had finished that war, and was sailed awayfor Syria, he honoured Antipater greatly; andconfirmed Hyrcanus in the high-priesthood;and bestowed on Antipater the privilege of acitizen of Rome, and a freedom from taxesevery where. It is reported indeed by many,that Hyrcanus went along with Antipater inthis expedition, and came himself into Egypt:and Strabo of Cappadocia bears witness tothis, when he says thus, in the name of Asi-nius, "After Mithridates had invaded Egypt,and with him Hyrcanus the high-priest of theJews." The same Strabo says thus again, inanother place, in the name of Hypsicrates:that "Mithridates at first went out alone; butAntipater, who had the care of the Jewishaffairs, was called by him to Ascalon; andthat he had three thousand soldiers ready togo along with him; and encouraged othergovernors of the country to go along with himalso; and Hyrcanus. the high-priest, was alsopresent in this expedition." But Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, cameat this time to Caesar; and lamented hisfather's fate; and complained that it was byAntipater's means that Aristobulus was takenoff by poison, and his brother was beheaded by Scipio; and desired that he would takepity on him, who had been ejected out of thatprincipality which was due to him. He alsoaccused Hyrcanus and Antipater as governingthe nation by violence; and offering injuriesto himself. Antipater was present, and madehis defence, as to the accusations that werelaid against him. He demonstrated that An­tigonus and his party were given to innova­tion, and were seditious persons. He alsoreminded Caesar of the difficulties and ser­vices he had undergone when he assisted himin his wars; and discoursed about what hewas a witness of himself. He added, thatAristobulus was justly carried away to Rome,as one that was an enemy to the Romans, andcould never be brought to be a friend tothem: and that his brother had no more thanhe deserved from Scipio; as being seized incommitting robberies. And that this punish­ment was not inflicted on him in a way of vio­lence, or injustice by him that did it. When Antipater had made this speech,Caesar appointed Hyrcanus to be high-priest;and gave Antipater what principality heshould choose; leaving the determination tohimself. So he made him procurator of Judea.He also gave Hyrcanus leave to raise up thewalls of his own city, upon his asking thatfavour of him; for they had been demolishedby Pompey And this grant he sent to theconsuls to Rome, to be engraven in the capi-tol. *The decree of the senate was as follows: "Lucius Valerius, the son of Lucius thepraetor, referred this to the senate, upon theides of December, in the temple of Concord.There were present at the writing of this de­cree Lucius Coponius, the son of Lucius, ofthe Colline tribe; and Papirius. of theQuirinetribe; concerning the affairs which Alexanderthe son of Jason, and Numenius, the son of * Take Dr. Hudson's note upon this place: which Isuppose to be. the truth. "Here is some mistake in Jose-phus. For when he had promised us a decree for therestoration of Jerusalem, he brings in a decree of fargreater antiquity; and that a league of friendship andunion only. One may easily believe that Josephus gaveorder for one thing, and his amanuensis performed ano­ther; by transposing decrees that concerned the Hyrcani;and as deluded by the sameness of their names. For thatbelongs to the first high-priest of this name, [John Hyrca­nus,] which Josephus here ascribes to one that lived later,SHyrcanus the son of Alexander Janneus.] However, theecree which he proposes to set down, follows a littlelower, in the collection of Roman decrees, that concernedVOL. I.—NOS. 43 & 44. the Jews; and is that dated when Caesar was consul thefifth time." But when he finds, at the beginning of thisdecree, the ides of December; and here at the end of the9th of Hyrcanus; and yet presently the month Panemus,which answers to part of the Julian June and July, it isclear these months December and Panemus are incon­sistent. Petitus therefore seems to be in the right, whenhe separates Panemus from the former decree, and refersit to the next that follows it; which is certainly dated inthat month; and as esteeming both in the same year, the9th of Hyrcanus. Though perhaps a word or two mayhave been dropped out of our copies, that, if extant,would have made some conjecture more certain. SeeDean Prideaux at the year !27. 4L