OCR Output CHAP. to. ROMAN HISTORY. 2rT Upon this, Lucretius had the honour paid him due tohimself and army: For, he triumphed over the Volsciand ./Equi, his soldiers following in the procession. AnOvation * was also granted to his colleague, who enteredthe city without his army. The next year, an attempt was made on the new con­suls, to revive Tarentinus' bill; in promoting which, the-whole college of tribunes warmly joined their interest.The consuls were P. Volumniua and Ser. Sulpicius. That year the heavens seetned to be on fire, and therewas a terrible earthquake: and what seemed incrediblethe year before, that a cow had spoke, now passed cur­rent. Among other prodigies, a dreadful shower fellof raw flesh, which, it is said, was catched as it- fell, byswarms of birds fluttering around it; what escaped them, *lay scattered on the ground, without changing its smell.The duumvirs, who presided over sacred things consult­ed the Sybilline books. They declared, that the city wasthreatened with an irruption of strange enemies, and toprevent any attack upon the higher parts of the city,and the slaughter that might ensue, among other thingsit was strongly recommended to give sedition no coun­tenance. The senators were accused by the tribunes ofcontriving this to obstruct the passing of the law, and inconsequence, the dispute ran very high. In the mean time, advices are brought from the Her-nici, that the Volsci and .SSqui, for all the fatal blow theyhad received, were recruiting their army, just as if thewar were every year to take the same turn. That theAntiates, who openly held their councils at Ecetra, werethe principal support of the enemies of Rome. Thatthe head of the confederacy, was At)tium, which furnish­ed troops for the war. When these things were laid be­fore the senate, they ordered an army immediately to belevied. The management of the war was committed tothe consuls conjunctly, the one to march against theVolsci, and the other against the jEqui. The tribunes, in the mean time, exclaimed loudly in * A lesser kind of triumph, decreed to those who obtained a vic­tory of smalt importance, where the opposition was not formula.J-te. In this case, the general did not enter the city in a chariot,.nor was he crowned with taurel. . .