OCR Output 432 NILl'S. NILUS. desert now disappear. The rocky banks sink down;the inundation fertilises the borders to a considerabledistance ; and for patches ot arable soil tine pasturesabound, whence both Arabia and Aegypt importeda breed of excellent horses. (Russegger, Karte ranNubien.) But after quitting Napata (?) no re­mains of antiquity are found before we arrive at the< iagaudes Insula of Pliny (vi. 29. s. 35), lat 19° 35',the modern Arr/o, a little above the third Cataract.The quarries of this island, which is about 12 milesin length, and causes a considerable eddy in theriver, were worked both by Aethiopians and Aegyp-tians. A little to X. of this island, and belowthe third Cataract, the Nile makes a considerablebend to the E., passing on its right bank the ruinsuf Segh$\ or Sescke. On its left bank are found theremains of the temple of Solebt equally remarkablefor the beauty of its architecture, and for its pic­turesque situ upon the verge of the rich land, " theriver's gift," and an illimitable plain of sand stretch­ing to the horizon. (Coilliaud, /' Isle de Sferoe,tol i. p. 375; Hoskins, Travels, p. 245.) TheNile is once again divided by an island called Sais,and a little lower down is contracted by a wall ofgranite on either side, so that it is hardly a stone's-throw across. At this point, and for a space of.several miles, navigation is practicable only at theseason of the highest floods. Below Sais arc found the ruins of the smalltemple of Amara, and at Stmneh those of twotemples which, from their opposite eminences on theright and left banks of the river, probably served asfortresses also at this narrow pass of the Nile. Thata city of great strength once existed here is themore probable, because at or near Semneh was thefrontier between Aethiopia and Aegypt. We havenow arrived at the termination of the porphyry andgranite rocks: henceforward, from about lat. 21°N., the river-banks are composed of sandstone, andacquire a less rugged aspect. The next remarkablefeature is the Cataract of Wadi-Halfot the GreatCataract of the ancient geographers. (Strab. xvii.p. 7SG.) In remote ante-historic periods a bar of pri­mitive rock, piercing the sandstone, probablyspanned the Nile at this point (lat 22° N.) fromshore to shore. But the original barrier has beenbroken by some natural agency, and a series ofislands now divides the stream which rushes andchafes between them. It is indeed less a single fallor shoot of water than a succession of rapids, andmay be ascended, as Belzoni did, during the inun-dution. (Travels in Xnlria, p. 85.) The roar ofthe waters may be heard at the distance of half aleague, and the depth of the fall is greater thanthat of the first Cataract at Syene. On the leftbank of the river a city once stood in the immediateneighbourhood of the rapids ; and three temples,exhibiting on their walls the names of Sesorta^en,Thothmes III., and Amenophis [[., have l>een par­tially surveyed here. Indeed, with the second Ca­taract, we may he said to enter the propylaea ofAegypt itself. For thenceforward to Syene — adistance of 220 miles either bank of the Nilepresents a succession of temples, cither excavatedin the sandstone or separate structures, of variouscms and styles of architecture. Of these the mostremarkable and the most thoroughly explored is thatof Abonsimbrl or Ij'sambul, the ancient Ibsciah,on the left bank, and two days* journey l»elow theCataract. This temple was first cleared of the in­ cumbent sand by Belzoni {Researches, to! i. p.316),anil afterwards more completely explored, and hi*-tified with the rcipi of Rameses III., by C'oao-pollion anil Rosellini. Primis {Ibrim) is one oar'sjourney down the stream; and below it thesandststshills compress the river for about 2 miles witfama mural escarpment, so that the current seem Isforce itself rather than to flow through this banish. (3.) 77/c jViYc below Syene. — At Syenesotuui), 24° 5' 23" N. lat., the Nile enters ArgrjSProper; and from this point, with occasional roe-vatures to the K. or NW., preserves gen**ndjj |due northerly direction as far as its bifurcausaat the apex of the Delta. Its bed presents ssta slight declivity, the fall being only from 5001£00 feet from Syene to the Mediterranean. I.«width of the valley, however, thmneh which it flssflvaries considerably, and the geological chararterslits banks undergoes several changes. At s shotdistance below Syene begins a ranee of eandslSflrocks, which ]>ass into limestone below LaVrpafiqlat. 25° 30' N.; and this formation continue* ws4jout any resumption of the sandstone, until botfasKLibyan and the Arabian hills diverge finally atOslcasornm. The river thus flows beneath ibe ptfticipa] quarries out of which the great structural!the Nile valley were built, and was the high nailwhich the blocks were conveyed to Thebes and AMlinopolis, to Sais and Bubastis, to the Great Lakfrinth in the Arsinoite nome, to the Pyr&midftSaMemphis, and, finally, to the Greek and \lxmarchitects of Alexandres a and Antinoopoli*. A^SJfrom Syene to LatojK.Iis, the shores of the nverflsterile and dreary, since the inundation is cbeefljby the rock-walls E. and W. of the stream. ■at Apollinopolis Magna, lat. 25°, and at Latnpsfl25° 30', the rocks leave a broader verge far ttoiftilising deposit, and the Nile flows throughcultivated tracts. At Thebes, for the firstbanks expand into a broad plain, whichclosed in at the N. end by the hills atHere the river is divided by small inlands,mile and a quarter in breadth. It has hi:lowed a northerly direction ; but at Coptos,road connected the stream with the ports of theSea [Berenice], it bends to the NW., andthis inclination for some distance. At Fhowever, it resumes its general N. bearing,tains it to the fork of the Delta. Near Diospolis Parva (Ilotc), on the tedand opposite Chcnobosdum, on the right, bi ihaajcanal, or, perhaps, an ancient branch of thecalled the Canal of Joseph (Bahr-Jut»tfylateral stream Hows in a direction nearly pthe main one, through the Arsinoite nameFyouni). From this point the Nile itseifno remarkable feature until it reaches Smidos, cr the grottos of Benihassa*^eastern hills, approaching close to the river,its inundation, and consequently also the mlland. In lat. 29° N. the Libyan hilU, far arecede, and curving at first NW., bnt soona SE. direction, embrace the Arsinoite nonie.:i little beli-.v Memphis, and after passing tht> of (Ubil-el*Mokattam, both the eastern anilchains of rocks finally diverge, and th* itpauds upon the great alluvial plain of the At Cercasoruni, where the bifurcation of lb* a?begins, or, perhnps, at a remoter period. atiBMemphis, the Nile probably met the Meditor at least an estuary, which its annual 3 on -r^«a