OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. 307 armed soldiers, the harbour also to be occupied by the shipsof the enemy, which lay quiet in their posts, than perplexedhow to act they sailed back for the present to the isle ofProne not far distant and desart, and there spent the night. The day following, being formed into the order of bat­tle, they shewed themselves again as ready for engagement,should the enemy venture to stand out against them into theopen sea ; and if not, were determined to force their wayinto the harbour. The enemy still kept in the same quietposture, nor set about executing their former design of bar­ring the entrances. They continued in their usual positionalong the shore, when they had manned their vessels, andgot every thing ready to engage the assailants should theybreak into the harbour, where there was no danger of beingstraitened for room. The Athenians, perceiving their in­tent, broke into the harbour at both entrances. Fallingthere upon the greater number of vessels now advanced intodeep water to obstruct the passage, they put them to flight;and following the chace, which could be but short, theyshattered several, and took five, one of which had herwhole crew on board. They proceeded to attack the rest,which had fled amain towards the shore. Some moreover,which had just been manned, were disabled before theycould launch into the deep. Others, deserted by the mari­ners who had fled along the shore, they fastened to theirown, and towed away empty. The Lacedaemonians seeingthese things, and prodigiously alarmed at the sad event,lest now the communication should be cut off with the bodyin the island, rushed down with all their force to preventit. Armed as they were they plunged into the water, andcatching hold of the vessels in tow pulled them back to­wards the shore. It was now the apprehension of everysoul amongst them, that the business flagged wherever hehimself was not present. Great was the tumult in this con­test for the ships, inverting the general custom of both con­tending parties. For the Lacedaemonians, inflamed and