OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE; the eyes and ears of the king, informed him of the pro­gress of disorder, that the provincial governors flew totheir prey with the fierceness of lions and eagles, and thattheir rapine and injustice would teach the most loyal ofhis subjects to abhor the name and authority of their so­vereign. The sincerity of this advice was punished withdeath, the murmurs of the cities were despised, their tu­mults were quelled by military execution; the intermediatepowers between the throne and the people were abolished;and the childish vanity of Hormouz,who affected the dailyuse of the tiara, was fond of declaring, that he alone wouldbe the judge as well as the master of his kingdom. Inevery word, and in every action, the son of Nushirvan de­generated from the virtues of his father. His avarice de­frauded the troops; his jealous caprice degraded the sa­traps; the palace, the tribunals, the waters of the Tigris,were stained with the blood of the innocent, and the tyrantexulted in the sufferings and execution of thirteen thou­sand victims. As the excuse of his cruelty, he sometimescondescended to observe, that the fears of the Persianswould be productive of hatred, and that their hatred mustterminate in rebellion: but he forgot that his own guiltand folly had inspired the sentiments which he deplored,and prepared the event which he so justly apprehended.Exasperated by long and hopeless oppression, the pro­vinces of Babylon, Susa, and Carmania, erected the stand­ard of revolt; and the princes of Arabia, India, and Scy-thia, refused the customary tribute to the unworthysuccessor of Nushirvan. The arms of the Romans, inslow sieges and frequent inroads, afflicted the frontiersof Mesopotamia and Assyria; one of their generals pro­fessed himself the disciple of Scipio, and the soldierswereanimated by a miraculous image of Christ, whose mildaspect should never have been displayed in the front ofbattle.' At the same time the eastern provinces of Persia 1 See the imitation of Scipio in Theopbylact, lib. 1. o. 14. the image of Christ,lib. 2. c. 3. Hereafter I shall speak more amply of the Christian images—1 had al­most said idols. This, if I am not mistaken, is the oldest sjfstftmiunt of divine ma­ 2 G 2