OCR Output 90 THE ANNALS [A. V. C. 769. jection, returned a considerable number, whom theyhad ransomed from their maritime neighbours. Somewere thrown on the coast of Britain, and there re­leased by the petty princes of the country. Accordingto the distance from which the men returned, the ac­count of their perils was swelled with marvellous ad­ventures; they talked of hurricanes and birds, unheardof before; of sea-monsters and ambiguous forms,partly man, and partly fish; things either seen, or elsethe coinage of imaginations crazed with fear. XXV. The news of these disasters spreading farand wide, the Germans began to think of renewingthe war. Nor was Germanicus less active to coun­teract their designs. He despatched Caius Siliuswith thirty thousand foot, and three thousand horse,to make war on the Cattians; and, in the mean timemarched himself, at the head of a greater force, toinvade the Marsians. Malovendus, the chief of thatnation, had lately surrendered to the protection ofRome. From him intelligence was gained, that theeagle of one of the legions commanded by Varus, layin a trench covered with earth, in a neighbouringgrove, and the guard stationed there could make but•a feeble resistance. Two parties were sent forward without delay; one to attack the enemy in front, anddraw them from their post; the other to enter thewood in the rear, and recover the eagle. Success at­tended both expeditions. Germanicus now resolvedto penetrate into the heart of the country; he carrieddestruction wherever he marched, the enemy in everydirection flying before him, or if any where theymade a stand, either routed or put to the sword. Ac­cording to the account brought in by the prisoners, amore general panic was never known. All agreedthat the Romans rose superior to adversity; a raceof men not to be subdued. Their fleet destroyed,their arms lost in the deep, the coast of Germany co­vered with the dead bodies of men and horses; andyet, said the astonished Germans, they return undis­mayed, and with their former ferocity renew thecharge, as if calamity increased their numbers. XXVI. The Romans marched into winter quarters,