OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the sacred ensign of the cross was displayed in the front,and Maurice reviewed, with conscious pride, the armsand numbers of the veterans who had fought and con­quered beyond the Tigris. Anchialus saw the last termof his progress by sea and land; he solicited, withoutsuccess, a miraculous answer to his nocturnal prayers;his mind was confounded by the death of a favouritehorse, the encounter of a wild boar, a storm of wind andrain, and the birth of a monstrous child, and he forgotthat the best of omens is to unsheath our sword in thedefence of our country." Under the pretence of receivingthe ambassadors of Persia, the emperor returned to Con­stantinople, exchanged the thoughts of war for those ofdevotion, and disappointed the public hope, by his ab­sence and the choice of his lieutenants. The blind par­tiality of fraternal love might excuse the promotion ofhis brother Peter, who fled with equal disgrace from thebarbarians, from his own soldiers, and from the inhabit­ants of a Roman city. That city, if we may credit theresemblance of name and character, was the famous Azi-muntium,n which had alone repelled the tempest of Attila.The example of her warlike youth was propagated tosucceeding generations; and they obtained, from thefirst or the second Justin, an honourable privilege, thattheir valour should be always reserved for the defence oftheir native country. The brother of Maurice attemptedto violate this privilege, and to mingle a patriot band withthe mercenaries of his camp; they retired to the church,he was not awed by the sanctity of the place; the peo­ple rose in their cause, the gates were shut, the rampartswere manned; and the cowardice of Peter was foundequal to his arrogance and injustice. The military fame m 'Ej; oiwoc ttficro; a/jtmstrBai wt^i vrarpni. Iliad. 12. 243.This noble Terse, which unites the spirit of a hero with the reason of a sage, mayprove that Homer was in every light superior to bis age and country. "Tbeophvlact, lib. 7. c. 3. On the evidence ol'this fact, which had not occurredto my memory, the candid reader will correct and excuse a note in the fourth volumeof this History, p. 2o7, which hastens the decay of Asiinus, or Azimunlioui: anothercentury of patriotism and valour is cheaply purchased by such a confession. 2 H 2