OCR Output 298 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. fortifications there were in that place. Phasaelus came also tohis assistance; yet was Pacorus, the general of the Parthians, atthe desire of Antigonus, admitted into the city, with a few ofhis horsemen, under pretence indeed as if he would still the se­dition, but in reality to assist Antigonus in obtaining the go­vernment. And when Phasaelus met him, and received himkindly, Pacorus persuaded him to go himself as ambassador toBarzapharnes, which was done fraudulently. Accordingly, Pha­saelus, suspecting no harm, complied with his proposal, whileHerod did not give his consent to what was done, because ofthe perfidiousness of these Barbarians, but desired Phasaelusrather to fight those that were come into the city. 5. So both Hyrcanus and Phasaelus went on the embassage;but Pacorus left with Herod two hundred horsemen, and tenmen, who were called, The freemen; and conducted the otherson their journey; and when they were in Galilee, the governorsof the cities there met them in their arms. Barzapharnes alsoreceived them at the first with cheerfulness, and made thempresents though he afterward conspired against them; and Pha­saelus, with his horsemen, were conducted to the seaside: Butwhen they heard that Antigonus had promised to give the Par­thians a thousand talents, and five hundred women, to assist himagainst them, they soon had a suspicion of the Barbarians.Moreover, there was one who informed them that snares werelaid for them by night, while a guard came secretly, and theyhad then been seized upon, had not they waited for the seizureof Herod by the Parthians, that were about Jerusalem, lest,upon the slaughter of Hyrcanus and Phasaelus, he should havean intimation of it, and escape out of their hands. And thesewere the circumstances they were now in, and they saw who theywere that guarded them. Some persons indeed would have per­suaded Phasaelus to fly away immediately on horseback, andnot stay any longer; and there was one Ophellius, who, aboveall the rest, was earnest with him to do so, for he had heard ofthis treachery from Saramalla, the richest of all the Syriansat that time, who also promised to provide him ships tocarry him off; for the sea was just by them: but he had nomind to desert Hyrcanus, nor bring his brother into danger;but he went to Barzapharnes, and told him he did not act justlywhen he made such a contrivance against them, for that if hewanted money, he would give him more than Antigonus; andbesides, that it was a horrible thing, to slay those that came tohim upon the security of their oaths, and that when they haddone them no injury. But the Barbarian swore to him, thatthere was no truth in any of his suspicions, but that he wastroubled with nothing but false proposals, and then went awayto Pacorus.