OCR Output 430 NOTES. 220 —ProtUSia. Ad verbum, cf. note, 1, 3. Ad rem,compare tho fuller account of these prodigies in Josephus (B. J. 6, 5, 3; 7,31), and with both histories compare the predictions of Christ(Mat. 27, 45. 51 ; Luke, 23, 44. 45). The Roman and the Jewishhistorians both strikingly confirm the prophetic character and divinemission of the great Teacher, in whom neither of them believed. 88. Superstitioni. See the etymology of the word in note, 3,58. It is commonly used by T. in a bad sense, as here. 221 Exapertae... fores. These doors or gates were of brass, andcould scarcely be opened by twenty men. Cf. Joseph. B. J. 6, 5, 3.Exapertae is found in no other classic writer. It appears in Jerome'sconfessions. 3. Delubri. Probably from de and luo = the place of expiation-Freund.—Excedere deos. That the gods (the guardian divinities ofthe temple) were departing. Compare with this the Roman customof evoking the gods from the cities which they besieged. Plin-28, 4. 4. In metum trahebant.' Construed as a ground of fear- i. e.as ominous of evil. So Ann. 14, 32: ad metum trahebant. Trahere isused in the same sense in 3, 3. 5. Antiquis .... Uteris, i. e. the books of the prophets, whichare full of prophecies of the Messiah, and some of which, e. g. Daniel,fix with great defiuiteness the time of his coming (eo ipso tempore).The Jews understood these to promise a temporal deliverer and con­queror. Hence the universal expectation, that at this very time theEast should become powerful, and persons proceeding from Judaashould become masters of the world. Languago happily descriptiveof the spiritual conquests of Christ and his apostles! Josephus andSuetonius use very similar language. B. J. G, 5, 1; Suet. Vesp. 4. T. Q,uae ambages .... praedixerat. Which oracle was to beaccomplished in Vespasian and Titus, who had command in theEast, and thence marched to the sovereignty of Rome. Such an in­terpretation would bo easily adopted by a Roman historian, especiallyone who had received favors from the Flavian dynasty (cf. 1, 1). Itis even countenanced by Josephus, in compliment doubtless to thesame princes. B. J. 6, 5, 1. Al. praedixerant. Ambages is used byother writers only in the pl. and the abl. sing. Cf. Ann. 6, 46. lO. Ne adversis .... mutabantur. Nor have they been by allthe calamities that have befallon them through eighteen centuries ofpersecution 12. Sexcenta millla. Josephus (B.J. 6, 9, 3.4) and Zonaras(G, 26) estimate the number who perished in and after the siege ateleven hundred thousand. Others make it still larger. Ernesti re­marks, that the number of the slain in battles and sieges is the mostfrequent subject of discrepancy in all history.