OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 125 the Euxine; and the curled hair and swarthy com- chap. XXXV. plexion of Africa no longer disfigure the most per- !_ feet of the human race. It is in the adjacent climatesof Georgia, Mingrelia, and Circassia, that naturehas placed, at least to our eyes, the model of beauty,in the shape of the limbs, the colour of the skin, thesymmetry of the features, and the expression of thecountenance *. According to the destination of thetwo sexes, the men seem formed for action, the wo­men for love; and the perpetual supply of femalesfrom mount Caucasus has purified the blood, andimproved the breed, of the southern nations of Asia.The proper district of Mingrelia, a portion only ofthe ancient Colchos, has long sustained an exporta­tion of twelve thousand slaves. The number ofprisoners or criminals would be inadequate to theannual demand; but the common people are in astate of servitude to their lords; the exercise of fraudor rapine is unpunished in a lawless community; andthe market is continually replenished by the abuseof civil and paternal authority. Such a trade, whichreduces the human species to the level of cattle, maytend to encourage marriage and population; sincethe multitude of children enriches their sordid andinhuman parent. But this source of impure wealthmust inevitably poison the national manners, obli­terate the sense of honour and virtue, and almostextinguish the instincts of nature; the Christians ofGeorgia and Mingrelia are the most dissolute ofmankind; and their children, who, in a tender age,are sold into foreign slavery, have already learnt toimitate the rapine of the father and the prostitutionof the mother. Yet, amidst the rudest ignorance,the untaught natives discover a singular dexterity * Buffon (Hist. Nat. tom. iii. p. 433—437) collects the unanimous suffrage ofnaturalists and travellers. If, in the time of Herodotus, they were in truth fit-KayXfoif and ouXo-rf >y if (and he had observed them with care), this precious fact isan example of the influence of climate on a foreign colony.