OCR Output an. 1076.] 241 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. should remember this accident, and not comenear the enemy's wall; for that the best me­thod of making war with success, was to callto mind the accidents of former wars; andwhat good or bad success had attended themin the like dangerous cases; that so they mightimitate the one and avoid the other." Butwhen the king was in this disposition, themessenger told him that Uriah was slain also;whereupon he was pacified. So he bade themessenger go back to Joab, and tell him thatthis misfortune was no other than what wascommon among mankind; and that such wasthe nature, and such the accidents of war,that sometimes the enemy would have suc­cess therein, and sometimes others: but heordered him to go on still in his care aboutthe siege, that no ill accident might befallhim in it hereafter; that they should raisebulwarks, and use machines in besieging thecity: and when they had got it to overturnits very foundation, and to destroy all the in- habitants. Accordingly the messenger car­ried the king's message with which he wascharged, and made haste to Joab. Bath­sheba, the wife of Uriah, when she was in­formed of the death of her husband, mournedfor him many days. But when her mourning*was over, and the tears which she shed lorUriah were dried up, the king took her towife, and a son was born to him by her. With this marriage God was not wellpleased;f but was angry at David. And heappeared to Nathan the prophet in his sleep,and complained of the king. Now Nathan.!was a prudent man; and considering thatkings when they fall into a passion, are guidedmore by that passion than by justice, he re­solved to conceal the threatenings that pro­ceeded from God, and made a good-natureddiscourse to him; and this after the followingmanner,|| desiring that the king would givehim his opinion in the following case:§—"There were," said he, "two men, inhabiting * How long widows were to mourn for their husbands,there is no express precept in the law; but the usual timefor common mourners was no more than seven days; andwe cannot suppose that Bathsheba was much longer, con­sidering the reason we have to apply to her the words ofLucan: Lachrymas non sponte cadentes Kffudit, geinitusque expressit pectore laeto. B. t According to the Jewish doctors, it was utterly un­lawful for any to marry another man's wife in case he haddelilcd her before. The canonical law declares suchmarriages null and void, as are contracted between anadulterous man, and a woman that was partner with himin the crime; and though the law of Moses does not ex­pressly forbid them, yet we may not thence infer thatthey were permitted among the Jews. For these rea­sons, some have thought, that this marriage of David andBathsheba was null and invalid; but others, upon bettergrounds, have supposed, that though there were many cri­minal circumstances attending it, yet these did not vacateits effect, and, in short, though it ought not to have beendone, yet, being done, the marriage was good, and thechildren, which were afterwards born, were legitimate:CalmeCs and Patrick's Commentaries. B. | We learn little more of this great man in the sacredwritings, but that he was David's prophet, intimate coun­sellor, and historiographer. Josephus says of him, thathe was a polite and a prudent man, one who knew how totemper the severity of wisdom with sweetness of man­ners. And Grotius compares him to Manius Lepidus, ofwhom Tacitus says, that he had a talent of turning awayTiberus's mind from those cruel purposes, to which thevile flattery of others inclined him, and was, at the sametime, in equal favour and authority with him. Nathancertainly knew the art of reproving kings with authority,and yet without giving offence. So far from that, he grewin his prince's favour and estimation, as long as he lived; insomuch, that David (as tradition tells us) called one sonafter his name, and committed another (even his belovedSolomon) to his care and tuition; The History of the Lifeof King David, vol. iii. B. || 2 Sam. xii. 1—15. § There is a passage of Seneca, (Epist. 59.) where hetreats of the style fit for philosophic writing, which suitsso well with this parable of Nathan's, that I choose to giveit in his own words, as a fit preamble to the short commentwhich follows of it. "Invenio, inquit, imagines, quibus siquis nobis uti vetat, et poetis illas, solis judicat esse con-cessas neminem mihi videtur ex antiquis legisse apnd quosnondum captabatur plausibilis oratio. Illi, qui simpliciter,et demonstrandsB rei causa loquebantur, parabolis referttsunt, quas existimo necessarias non ex eadem causa quapoetis, sed ut imbecillitatis nostra; adminicula sint, et utdiscentem et audientem in rem prassentem addueant:" Forparables, like histories, wherein we have no concern, areheard with more attention, and are so contrived as to giveno offence, even though they provoke the man to whom-they are addressed to condemn himself. "There weretwo men in one city, the one rich, and the other poor:And the rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds;"as David had many wives and concubines, with whom hemight have been well satisfied, without violating anotherman's bed; "but the poor had nothing, save one little ewelamb, which he had bought and nourished up." Bath­sheba, very likely, was the only wife that Uriah had, withwhom he was highly pleased and delighted, and she veryprobably with him, till David's temptations had pervertedher mind. "And it grew up together with him, and withhis children; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of hisown cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as adaughter." Nathan, in his resemblance, cannot be saidto have surpassed the truth, considering how fond manypersons were anciently, not only of lambs, but of severalother creatures, which they suffered to eat with them attheir tables, and lie with them in their beds; and Uiut