OCR Output AK.,1769.] 49 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. husband came home and enquired what wasthe cause of the disorder she was in, she be­gan to accuse Joseph.* "O husband," said she, "mayest thou notlive a day longer if thou dost not punish thewicked slave who hast desired to defile thybed; who has neither recollected who hewas, when he came to our house, so as to be­have himself with modesty, nor has beenmindful of what favours he had received fromthy bounty; though he must be an ungratefulman indeed, in every respect, not to actagreeable to us. This man I say, laid a privatedesign to abuse thy wife, and this at the timeof a festival, observing when thouwouldst beabsent: so that it now is clear that his mo­desty as it appeared to be formerly, was onlybecause of the restraint he was in out of'' fear of thee, but that he was not really of agood disposition. This has been occasionedby his being advanced to honour beyond whathe deserved, or hoped for; insomuch that heconcluded that he who was deemed fit to betrusted with thy estate, and the governmentof thy family, and was preferred above thyeldest servants, might be allowed to touchthy wife also." When she had spoken thus,she produced Joseph's garment, as if he hadleft it with her when he attempted to forceher. Potiphar not being able to disbelievewhat his wife said, and what he saw himself,and being seduced by his love, did not sethimself about the examination of the truth,"but condemning Joseph as a wicked man, hethrew him into the malefactor's prison; andhad a still higher opinion of his wife, and bareher witness that she was a woman of a be­coming modesty and chastity. CHAP. V. of Joseph's situation in prison, and his subsequentliberation. "^TOW Joseph, commending all his affairsJ3| to God, did not attempt to make anydefence, nor to relate the exact circumstancesof the fact, but silently underwent the bondsand the distress he was in, firmly believing * There is something not unlike the revengeful artificein Potiphar's wife, in the representation which the poetmakes of Phaedra, when in an affair of the like nature shefinds herself rejected by her son-in-law Hippoly tus. Regeramus ipsa? crimen, atque ultro impiam. that God, who knew the cause of his affliction,and the truth of the fact, would be morepowerful than those that inflicted the punish­ment upon him. He accordingly soon re­ceived a proof of God's providence on hisbehalf; for the keeper of the prison takingnotice of his care and fidelity in the affairs hehad set him about, and the dignity of hiscountenance, relaxed his bonds, and therebymade his heavy calamity lighter, and moresupportable to him; he also permitted him tomake use of a diet better than that of the restof the prisoners. Now his fellow prisoners,when their hard labours were over, used todiscourse with each other, being equalsufferers, and to inquire one of another whatwere the occasions of their being condemnedto a prison? Among them Pharaoh's cup­bearer, and one that had been respected byhim, was put in bonds upon the king's angerat him. This man was under the same bondswith Joseph, and soon grew familiar withhim; and upon his observing that Joseph hada better understanding than the rest, he toldhim of a dream he had, and desired he wouldinterpret its meaning, complaining, that be­sides the afflictions he underwent from theking, God also added to him trouble from hisdreams. , He therefore said, that in his sleep he sawthree clusters of grapes hanging upon threebranches of a vine, large, and ripe for gather­ing, and that he squeezed them into a cup,which the king held in his hands, and whenhe had strained the wine, he gave it to theking to drink, and that he received it fromhim with a pleasant countenance. This, hesaid, was what he saw; and he desired Jo­seph, that if he had any portion of under­standing in such matters, he would tell himwhat this vision foretold. Joseph bid himbe of good cheer, and expect to be loosedfrom his bonds in three days' time, becausethe king desired his service, and was aboutto restore it to him again; for he let himknow that God bestows the fruit of the vineupon men for good, which wine is poured out to him, and is the pledge of fidelity and .—. —■- Venerem arguamus, &c. Adeste, Athena, fida tamulorum manus, Fer opem, &c. - Ed praeceps abiit Ensemque trepida liquit attonitus fuga, Pignus tenemus sceleris, &c Senec. Hip.