OCR Output CHAP. L. 2«9 to decide; and those who most firmly believe her imma­terial nature, are at a loss to understand how she canthink or act without the agency of the organs of sense.Hell and The reunion of the soul and body will be fol-paradise. lOWed by the final judgment of mankind: and,in his copy of the Magian picture, the prophet has toofaithfully represented the forms of proceeding, and eventhe slow and successive operations of an earthly tribunal.By his intolerant adversaries he is upbraided for ex­tending, even to themselves, the hope of salvation; forasserting the blackest heresy, that every man who be­lieves in God, and accomplishes good works, may expectin the last day a favourable sentence. Such rationalindifference is ill adapted to the character of a fanatic;nor is it probable that a messenger from heaven shoulddepreciate the value and necessity of his own revelation.In the idiom of the Koran,q the belief of God is inse­parable from that of Mahomet; the good works arethose which he has enjoined; and the two qualificationsimply the profession of Islam, to which all nations andall sects are equally invited. Their spiritual blindness,though excused by ignorance and crowned with virtue,will be scourged with everlasting torments; and thetears which Mahomet shed over the tomb of his mother,for whom he was forbidden to pray, display a strikingcontrast of humanity and enthusiasm/ The doom ofthe infidels is common: the measure of their guilt andpunishment is determined by the degree of evidencewhich they have rejected, by the magnitude of the errorswhich they have entertained: the eternal mansions ofthe Christians, the Jews, the Sabians, the Magians, and i The candid Reland has demonstrated, that Mahomet damns all unbelievers;(de Religion. Moharn. p. 128—142.) that devils will not be finally saved; (]i. 196—199.) that paradise will not lolely consist of corporeal delights; (p. 199—205.)and that women's souls are immortal, (p. 205—209.) 'Al Beidawi, apod Sale, Koran, c. 9. p. 164. The refusal to pray for as. un­believing kindred, is justified, according to Mahomet, by the duty of a prophet,and the example of Abraham, who reprobated his own father as an enemy of God.Yet Abraham, (he adds, c. 9. v. 116. Maracci, torn. t. p. 317.) fuit sane pius,mitis.