OCR Output 264 THE DECLINE AND FALL and shared with a smile the abstinence or diet of the camp. No sooner did he re­turn to Constantinople, than he resigned himself to the arts and pleasures of a lifeof luxury: the expense of his dress, his table, and his palace, surpassed the mea­sure of his predecessors, and whole summer days, were idly wasted in the deliciousisles of the Propontis, in the incestuous love of his niece Theodora. The doublecoast of a warlike and dissolute prince, exhausted the revenue, and multipliedthe taxes; and Manuel, in the distress of his last Turkish camp, endured a bitterreproach from the mouth of a desperate soldier. As he quenched his thirst, hecomplained that the water of a fountain was mingled with Christian blood. " It isnot the first time" (exclaimed a voice from the crowd) " that you have drank, Oemperor! the blood of your Christian subjects." Manuel Comnenus was twicemarried; to the virtuous Bertha or Irene of Germany, and to the beauteous Maria,a French or Latin princess of Antioch. The only daughter of his first wife destinedfor Bela, a Hungarian prince, who was educated at Constantinople under the nameof Alexius; and the consummation of their nuptials might have transferred theRoman sceptre to a race of free and warlike barbarians. But as soon as Maria ofAntioch had given a son and heir to the empire, the presumptive rights of Belawere abolished, and he was deprived of his promised bride: but the Hungarianprince resumed his name and the kingdom of his fathers, and displayed such vir­tues as might excite the regret and envy of the Greeks. The son of Maria wasnamed Alexius; and at the age of ten years, he ascended the Byzantine throne,after his father's decease had closed the glories of the Comnenian line. The fraternal concord of the two sons of the great Alexius, had been sometimesclouded by an opposition of interest and passion. By ambition, Isaac the Sebasto-crator was excited to flight and rebellion, from whence he was reclaimed by thefirmness and clemency of John the Handsome. The errors of Isaac, the father ofthe emperors of Trebizond, were short and venial; but John the elder of his sons,renounced for ever his religion. Provoked by a real or imaginary insult of hisuncle, he escaped from the Roman to the Turkish camp: his apostacy was re­warded with the sultan's daughter, the title of Chelebi, or noble, and the inheri­tance of a princely estate; and in the fifteenth century Mahomet II. boasted of hisimperial descent from the Comnenian family. Andronicus, the younger brother ofJohn, son of Isaac, and grandson of Alexius Comnenus, is one of the most conspi­cuous characters of the age: and his genuine adventures might form the subject ofa very singular romance. To justify the choice of three ladies of royal birth, it isincumbent on me to observe, that their fortunate lover was cast in the best pro­portions of strength and beauty; and that the want of the softer graces was suppliedby a manly countenance, a lofty stature, athletic muscles, and the air and deport­ment of a soldier. The preservation, in his old age, of health and vigour, was thereward of temperance and exercise. A piece of bread and a draught of water wereoften his sole and evening repast; and if he tasted of a wild boar, or a stag, whichhe had roasted with his own hands, it was the well-earned fruit of a laborious chase.Dexterous in arms, he was ignorant of fear: his persuasive eloquence could bend toevery situation and character of life: his style, though not his practice, was fashionedby the example of St. Paul; and, in every deed of mischief, he had a heart to re­solve, a head to contrive, and a hand to execute. In his youth, after the death ofthe emperor John, he followed the retreat of the Roman army; but in the marchthrough Asia Minor, design or accident tempted him to wander into the mountains:the hunter was encompassed by the Turkish huntsmen, and he remained sometime a reluctant or willing captive in the power of the sultan. His virtues andvices recommended him to the favour of his cousin; he shared the perils and thepleasures of Manuel; and while the emperor lived in public incest with his nieceTheodora, the affections of her sister Eudocia were seduced and enjoyed by An­dronicus. Above the decencies, of her sex and rank, she gloried in the name of hisconcubine; and both the palace and the camp could witness that she slept orwatched in the arms of her lover. She accompanied him to his military commandof Cilicia, the first scene of his valour and imprudence. He pressed, with activeardour, the siege of Mopsuestia: the day was employed in the boldest attacks; butthe night was wasted in song and dance; and a band of Greek comedians formedthe choicest part of his retinue. Andronicus was surprised by the sally of a vigi­lant foe: but while his troops fled in disorder, his invincible lance transpierced thethickest ranks of the Armenians. On his return to the imperial camp in Mace­donia, he was received by Manuel with public smiles and a private reproof; butthe duchies of Naissus, Braniscba, and Castoria, were the reward or consolation 01