OCR Output NOTES ON THE sul, to the secret meaning of much of the mythology id the Iliad,and shews us how the relation here given by Pausanias is to beunderstood. For it means, that certain dxmoniacal powers, whorank among the kst attendants of the gods Neptune and theSun, once contended with each other about the land of Corinth;and that Btiareus, a dæmon belonging to the deity of that name,acted as a mediator between them. I only add farther, thatthese demons, who are thus proximate to the subjects of theirgovernment, and who are influenced by paflions like men, arenot essentially dæmons, though they are the perpetual attendantsof the gods; but they are dæmons only cxca>,t according lohabitude, proximity, and alliance. For between essential dæmons,who are the ecn/lant attendants of the gods, and men who areonly sometimes damons according to habitude, and sometimes atten­dants of the gods, it is necessary there should be an order ofbeings, who are always dæmons according to habitude, and al­ways the attendants of the gods.. Page 14.1. But there are three Jlatves of Jupiter, fee.] It ap­pears to me highly probable, that the three Jupiters, mentionedin tliis place by Pausanias, are those three brother deities, theoffspring of Saturn, between whom, according to Homer, theuniverse is divided; or, in other words, that they are Jupiter,Neptune, and Pluto. For the second of these itatues, fays Pau­sanias, is called terrcjlrial Jupiter, which is an epithet of Pluto,as is evident from the Orphic hymn to that deity; and fromHomer, as cited by Pausanias, p. 204 ; and Neptune, in the Or­phic hymn to Equity, is called marine Jupiter, nrotlioc maXt^Zir;.Put that the reader may fee the processions and offices of thesethree demiurgic gods, who are supermundane deities accordingto their first subsistence, I shall present him with the followingtranslation from Proclus in Theol. Plat. p. 367. "1 hese ruling gods replenish the apparent order of things inconjunction with the mundane gods; and distribute whole parts»nder the moon, in a manner different from their government in