OCR Output CHAP. SO. ROMAN HISTORY. 353 also sirnamed the imperious, but Posthumius was neverdistinguished by any mark of baseness. C. Julius the consul, whilst his colleague was absent,dedicated the temple of Apollo,- without casting lots.Quini-tins did not take it well; and for that reason, afterbe had disbanded his army, and returned to the city, helaid a complaint before the senate, but without effect.—It is observed, though at that time the Romans seemedto have little concern in the matter, that in this year, soremarkable for great events, tor the first time, the Car­thaginians who were one day to be such terrible ene­mies to the Roman people, taking advantage of the divi­sions which prevailed in Sicily, sent an army thither t»the assistance of one of the contending parties. CHAP. XXX. The Vejentes in motion. A terrible drought followed by aplague. A. R. 323. HE Tribunes of the commons made a bustle in thecity to get military tribunes with consular power electedfor the ensuing year, but they failed in the attempt.Lucius Papirius Crassus, and L. Julius were made con­suls. The JEqui sent ambassadors, requesting the senateto treat with them; and when instead of a treaty, asubmission at discretion was mentioned, the envoys ob­tained a truce for eight years. The Volsci, after thecheck they had received at the "Algidus, were dividedinto parties; and from disputes and reproaches betweenthose who had declared for war, and those who had ad- .vised peace, came at last to an open rupture ; so that theRomans were now at peace with all their neighbours. The consuls having discovered by means of one of thetribunes, that the college were preparing a law for fix­ing the extent of fines, which would be highly agree»able to the people, they took the start of them, by movingit themselves. These consuls were succeeded by L. Ser-gius Fidenas, for the second time, and Hostus LucretiusTricipitinus. During their administration, nothir-g me­morable occurred. Aulus Cornelius Cossus, and TitusWuintius Pennus, a second time were their successors inoffice. A. R. 324. v , . V