OCR Output A.D. 19.] 123 OF TACITUS. if they dared to commence hostilities, as a prince thatmight once more ascend the throne. In the space,however, of eighteen years, Maroboduus never oncestirred out'of Italy. He grew gray in indolence; andclinging too long to a wretched life, survived his re­putation. Catualda experienced a like reverse of fortune, andfound no better refuge. The Hermundurians, led onby Vibillius their chief, expelled him from the throne.The Romans fixed his residence at Foro-Julium, acolony in Narbon Gaul. The barbarians, who fol­lowed the fortunes of the two exiled kings, were notsuffered to incorporate with the people of the pro­vinces ; but to prevent the danger that might otherwiseshake the public tranquillity, were conducted beyondthe Danube, where they had allotments of land be­tween the rivers Marus and Cusus, under the com­mand of Vannius, a man born in the Quadian nation,and by Tiberius made king of the colony. LXIV. The elevation of Artaxias to the throne ofArmenia being about this time known at Rome, thesenate decreed the lesser triumph to Drusus and Ger-mantcus. Triumphal arches were raised near theTemple of Mars the avenger, and the statues of thetwo princes were placed in a conspicuous point ofview. Tiberius rejoiced at these events; and the moreso, as they were the effect of policy; not of con­quest. By the same insidious arts he now began toplan the destruction of Rhescuporis, king of Thrace.Rhsemetalces at one time reigned sole monarch overthat whole country. After his death Augustus madea partition of the kingdom, assigning to Rhescuporis,the late king's brother one moiety; and the other toCotys, son of the deceased monarch. In this divisionof the kingdom, the cultivated parts of the country,the fertile vales and flourishing cities that lay conti­guous to Greece, fell to the share of Cotys; the wildand barren places, which were open to hostile incur­sions, were allotted to Rhescuporis. The genius ofthe two kings resembled their s6il; the milder virtuesdistinguished the character of Cotys; ferocity, ambi­tion, rapine, and impatience of an equal, were the