OCR Output 368 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. temple, should send their money to Cos, nor is it likely thatthe Jews, who are inhabitants of Alexandria, should do so nei足ther, since they were in no fear of Mithridates. And Strabohimself bears witness to the same thing in another place, that atthe same time that Sylla passed over into Greece, in order to fightagainst Mithridates, he sent Lucullus to put an end to a seditionthat our nation, of whom the habitable earth is full, had raisedin Cyrene; where he speaks thus: "There were four classes of"men among those of Cyrene, that of citizens, that of hus-"bandmen, the third of strangers, and the fourth of Jews. Now"these Jews are already gotten into all cities, and it is hard to"find a place in the habitable earth that hath not admitted this"tribe of men, and is not possessed by it: And it hath come to"pass that Egypt and Cyrene, as having the same governors,"and a great number of other nations, imitate their way of"living, and maintain great bodies of these Jews in a peculiar"manner, and grow up to greater prosperity with them, and"make use of the same laws with that nation also. Accord-"ingly the Jews have places assigned them in Egypt, wherein"they inhabit, besides what is peculiarly allotted to this nation"at Alexandria, which is a large part of that city. There is"also an ethnarch allowed them, who governs the nation; and"distributes justice to them, and takes care of their contracts,"and of the laws to them belonging, as if he were the ruler of"a free republic. In Egypt, therefore, this nation is power-"ful, because the Jews were originally Egyptians, and because"the land wherein they inhabit, since they went thence, is near"to Egypt. They also removed into Cyrene, because that this"land adjoined to the government of Egypt, as well as does"Judea, or rather was formerly under the same government."And this is what Strabo says. 3. So when Crassus had settled all things as he himself pleas足ed, he marched into Parthia, where both he himself and all hisarmy perished, as hath been related elsewhere. But Cassiusas he fled from Rome to Syria, took possession of it, and was animpediment to the Parthians, who by reason of their victoryover Crassus, made incursions upon it: And as he came back toTyre, he went up into Judea also, and fell upon Tarichae, andpresently took it, and carried about thirty thousand Jews cap足tives; and slew Pitholaus, who succeeded Aristobulus in his se足ditious practices, and that by the persuasion of Antipater, whoproved to have great interest in him, and was at that time in'great repute with the Idumeans also: Out of which nation hemarried a wife, who was the daughter of one of their eminentmen, and her name was * Cypros, by whom he had four sons, * ^>r. Hudson observes, that the name of this wife of Antipater's in Josephuswas Cyprus, as an Hebrew termination, but not Cj/pris, the Greek name for Venu%as some critics were ready to corrtct it.