OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 149 tribune to call the worst offenders to judicial account, thesenate permitted war to be declared against Jugurtha(642-3). The step seemed taken in earnest. The envoys 112-111.of Jugurtha were dismissed from Italy without being ad­mitted to an audience; the new consul Lucius CalpurniusBestia, who was distinguished, among the members of hisorder at least, by judgment and activity, prosecuted the war­like preparations with energy; Marcus Scaurus himselftook the post of a commander in the African army. Ina short time a Roman army was on African ground, andmarching upward along the Bagradas (Mejerdah) advancedinto the Numidian kingdom, where the towns most remotefrom the seat of the royal power, such as Great Leptis,voluntarily sent in their submission, while Bocchus king ofMauretania, although his daughter was married to Jugurtha,offered friendship and alliance to the Romans. Jugurthahimself lost courage, and sent envoys to the Roman head­quarters to request an armistice. The end of the contestseemed near, and came still more rapidly than was expected.The treaty with Bocchus broke down, because the king, un­acquainted with Roman customs, had conceived that heshould be able to conclude a treaty so advantageous for theRomans withouc any gratuity, and therefore had neglectedto furnish his envoys with the usual market price of Romanalliances. Jugurtha at all events knew Roman institutionsbetter, and had not omitted to support his proposals for anarmistice by a due accompaniment of money; but he toowas deceived. After the first negotiations it turned out,that not an armistice merely but a peace was purchaseable atthe Roman head-quarters. The royal treasury was still wellfilled with the savings of Massinissa; the transaction wassoon settled. The treaty was concluded, after it had been Treaty be-for the sake of form submitted to a council of war, whose tween Romeconsent was procured after an irregular and extremely sum- ,.' u"maiy discussion. Jugurtha submitted at discretion; butthe victor was merciful and gave him back his kingdom un­diminished, in consideration of his paying a moderate fineand delivering up the Roman deserters and the war elephants(643); the greater part of the latter the king afterwards 111.repurchased by bargaining with the individual Roman com­mandants and officers. . On the news of this peace the storm once more brokeforth in Rome. Everybody knew how the peace had been