OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 7S6 «M 5 Sain now stand. It arena probable that ituiast, at all errata, bare included a considerableprua of it, since, had it proceeded along thevmiar/, it would have been commanded by the hill;snJ ualnd the matt natural supposition is that itwtaatd the whole, since the more extended line itw\«Jtl thai hare described affords room for thein era! fttn which we find mentioned between thefterta Trigemina and the Porta Capena near thebate/the'Caeban. Aaaone; these we must, perhaps, assume a Portaioocu or Mixutla, which is twice mentioned by'atlas (pp. 122, 147), and whose name, he says,■at arrival from an ara or sacellum of Minucius,>a«a the Romans beld to be a god. We bear • •aen else of such a Roman deity; but we learnr»* Pliny (xriii. 4) that a certain tribune of the*-\.»e, named Minutius Auguriuus, had a statuer*ried to him, by public subscription, beyond the"arts Tormina, for baring reduced the price of«ra. This occurred at an early period, since the at«7 is narrated by Livy (ir. 13—16)• . 436. with tlia additional information that itv Mumlioa who procured the condemnation of"great corn monopoliser, Maelius, and that the-U5* alluded to was a gilt bull. It is possible■men that the gate may bare been named after-i; sad that from the extraordinary honours paidk.SL he may hare come in process of time to betirvly mistaken for a deity. If there is any truthi ts^a view, the gate may be placed somewhere on■ & aio of* the Aventine. k the mutilated fragment which we possess ofdescription of the Roman gates (L.L. v. §U, Mull.) be closes it by mentioning three, which-> impossible to place anywhere except in the line •vi between tlie Arentine and Caehan. He hadw~. tpaakiog of a place inhabited by Ennius, who■a <m the Arentine (Hieron. Citron. 134, vol. i. '■ti. Kuic.), and then mentions consecutively aarrs Xaxvxa, Pocta Raldusclxa, and PortaDiEXAUa. He must therefore be enumeratinge C*te» ia 'Jie order from W. to E., since it would befw.iie to find room for three more gates, besidesat already mentioned, on the Aventine. The 1'.w j. therefore, probably lay in the valley between • tt& aad the adjoining height to the K. Its-j tit. hat* been situated on the Aventine itself,as Um Bant Cafritolina, mentions in the 12thdo, or 1'ncina Publics, a vicus Porta Naevia, asi at s&-<Lrr of Porta Raudusculana. But the»l p-irTr— of the latter gate, as well as of therta Lanrnaiia, it ia impossible to determine fur-- -js that they lay in the line of wall between'Ateaune and Caelian. tiir to much oncertainty it is refreshing to;n at but at a gate whose site may be accuratelyd. Tha Poarxa Capkxa lay at the foot of thedaa hill, at a short distance W. of the spotn tae Via Latina diverged from the Via Appia. • Utur navd issued from the P. Capena, andu^arrry of the first milestone upon it, in a rtt-t a abort distance outside of the modemu i £ Scbastiano, lias enabled the topographer&atr;T to determine its site to be at a spot nowtat by a peat with the letters p. c, 300 yards■fel the Vim <SL Grtgorio, and 1480 within thean gate That it was seated in the valley,■an man the fact that the Rivns Herculaneua,airy a branch of the Anna Marcia, passed over•Lkb, aa an expressly told, lay too low to supply the Caelian hill. (Front. Aq. 18.) HenceJuvenal (iii. 11):— "Substitit ad rcteres arena madidamque Capcnam,"where we learn from the Scholia that the gate,which in later times must have lain a good waywithin the town, was called " Arcus Stillaus." SoMartial (iii. 47)..-— "Capena grandi porta qua pluit gutta." A little way beyond this gate, on the Via Appia,between its point of separation from the Via Latinsand the P. S. Scbaetiano, there still exists one of themost interesting of the Roman monuments — thetomb of the Stipios, the site of which is marked bya solitary cypress. From the Porta Capena the nail must haveascended the Caelian hill, and skirted its southernside; but the exact line which it described in itsprogress towards the agger can only be conjectured.Becker (/landb. p. 167), following Piale and Bunsen,draws the line near the OtptilaU di S. Giovanni,thus excluding that part of the hill on which theLaterun is situated, although, as Canina observes(Indicazione, p. 36), this is the highest part of thehill. There was perhaps a gate at the bottom of thepresent Piazza di Xavi&lla, but we do not know itsname; and the next gate respecting which there isany certainty is the Porta Cakumontas a. Bunsen(Besc/ir. i. p. 638) and Becker, in conformity withtheir line of wall, place it by the hospital of 5.Giovanni, now approached by the ria 5. 5. QuattroCoronaii, the ancient street called Caput Al'ricae.The Porta Qukrcji etuhna, if it was really a dis­tinct gate and not another name for theCacliaiontana,must have stood a little to the N. of the latter, nearthe church of 5. 5. Pietro e Marcellino, in thevalley which separates the Caelian from the Esqui-line. This gale, which was also called Queniue-tuluria, is several times mentioned, but without anymore exact definition. (I'lin. xvi. 15; Festus, p.261.) The Caelian hill itself, as we have beforeremarked, was anciently calied Querouctulanus.From this point the wall must have run northwardsin a tolerably direct line till it joined the southern ex­tremity of the agger, where the Porta Escji ilinawas situated, between which and the Querquetulanathere does not appear to have been any other gate.The Flsquilina, like the others on the agger, isamong tho most certain of the Roman gates. Welearn from Strabo (v. p. 237) that the Via Labicanaproceeded from it; whilst at a little distance thePraenestina branched off from the Labicana. Itmust therefore have lain near the church of S. I'iVoand the still existing arch of Gallienus; but itsexact site is connected with the question respectingthe gates in the Aurelian wall which corresix>ndedwith it, and cannot therefore at present be deter­mined. The site of the Porta Collina, the pointfrom which we started, is determined by the factmentioned by Strabo (/&. p 228) that both the ViaSalaria and Via Nomeutana started from it; and itmust consequently have stood near the northerncorner of the baths of Diocletian at the commence­ment of the present I'ia del Macao. We learnfrom Paulus Diaconus (p. 10) that this gate wasalso called Agoncnsis and Quiiinalis. Agonus, aswe have said, was the ancient name of the Quirinalhill. The Porta Collina, then, and the Porta Esquilinawere seated at the northern and southern extremities: 3c 2