OCR Output CHAP. 23. ROMAN HISTORY, 343 He divided his Army into foiir parts, and carried onhis attacks uponMhe walls, in- places very distant fromeach oilier. He constantly relieved those who were fa­tigued, by fresh supplies of men, artd so continued toskirmish with the,townsmen night and day. By these,diversions he kept the enemy from perceiving the worksLe was carrying on, till he lta<) digged quite through tliebill) and opened a passage all the.way to the castle, andtill the Etrurians having been diverted with the show ofdanger, from all attention to the reality, and a confirma­tion that their city was taken in the enemy's shouts overtheir heads. This year, C. Furius Pacilus, and M. Ge-ganius Macerinus, the censors, fitted up a building Inthe Campus Martius, where the census was made for thefirst time. N CHAP. XXIII. The conquered are again in motion. JL FIND in Licinius Macer, that the same consuls, Ici-lius, a third time, and Virginius, a second, were re-elect­ed tor the following year. Valerius Antias, and Q. Tu-IJM-O, mention M. Manlius and Q. Sulpicius, as consulsfor that year. Yet, notwithstanding so great •» differ­ence, both pretend the authority of the linen books, andneither refuses, that according to ancient historians, thepublic administration, for that year, was vested in mili­tary tribunes. Licinius follows these linen records as anoracle of truth, but Tubero is not so confident; so that,among other things which antiquity has involved in dark-riess, this too must be left undetermined. • The taking of Fidenae spread a general alarm through­out all Etruria. For, the Vejentes w"ere not only in themost dreadful terror for meeting with the same fate, butthe Falisci too, from the part they had acted in the firstwar, although they had no hand in the second. Where­fore, these two states having dispatched ambassadors toall the twelve nations, prevailed with ihem to appoint Etgeneral assembly of all Etruria, at the temple of Voltum-na; upon which, the senate, as if a cloud had been readyto burst over their heads, ordered Mamercus