OCR Output 280 THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. [Book IV. the earth, with its fields of grain alternating -with forests ofwild fruit trees, it was beyond doubt even in Mithradates'time well cultivated and also comparatively populous. Butthere were hardly any towns properly so called; the countrypossessed nothing but strongholds, which served the peasantsas places of refuge and the king as treasuries for the custodyof the revenues which accrued to him; in the Lesser Ar­menia alone, in fact, there were counted seventy-five ofthese little royal forts. We do not find that Mithradatesmaterially contributed to promote the growth of towns in hisempire; and situated as he was,—in practical, though not per­haps on his own part quite conscious, reaction against Hellen-Acquisitions ism,—this is easily explained. He appears more activelyof territory employed—likewise quite in the oriental style—in enlargingdates1 "on a^ s'aes *"s kingdom, which was even then not small,though its compass is probably over-stated at 2300 miles: wefind his armies, his fleets, and his envoys busy along the BlackSea as well as towards Armenia and Asia Minor. But no­where did so free and ample an arena present itself to himas on the eastern and northern shores of the Black Sea, thestate of which at that time we must not omit to glance at,however difficult or in fact impossible it is to give a reallydistinct idea of it. On the eastern coast of the Black Sea—which, previously almost unknown, was first opened up tomore general knowledge by Mithradates—the region ofColchis. Colchis on the Phasis (Mingrelia and Imeretia) with theimportant commercial town of Dioscurias was wrested fromthe native princes and converted into a satrapy of Pontus.Of still greater moment were his enterprises in the north.*Northern The wide steppes destitute of hills and trees, which stretch tot°rRi ° w tlie norta ofthe Black Sea, of the Caucasus, and of the Cas-the Black pian> are ^y- reason of their natural conditions—more especially from the variations of temperature fluctuating betweenthe climate of Stockholm and that of Madeira, and from theabsolute destitution of rain or snow which occurs not unfre-quently and lasts for a period of twenty-two months or longer—little adapted for agriculture or for permanent settlementat all; and they always were so, although two thousand years * They are here grouped together, becanse, though they were in put «odoubt not executed till between the first and the second war with Rome, theyto some extent preceded even the first (Meuin. 30; Justin rxsviii. 7 ap. iSm.;App. Mithr. 13; Eutrop. v. 5) and a narrative in chronological order is in thiscase absolutely impracticable.