OCR Output 58 ROMAN EMPIRE, and useful allies of Rome were taught to consider theemperor not as the chief, but as the enemy of the Chris­tians. Language, the leading principle which unitesor separates the tribes of mankind, soon discriminatedthe sectaries of the east, by a peculiar and perpetualbadge, which abolished the means of intercourse andPerpetual the hope of reconciliation. The long domi-ortheorT nion of the Greeks, their colonies, and, above all,entai sects, their eloquence, had propagated a language,doubtless the most perfect that has been contrived bythe art of man. Yet the body of the people, both inSyria and Egypt, still persevered in the use of their na­tional idioms; with this difference, however, that theCoptic was confined to the rude and illiterate peasantsof the Nile, while the Syriac," from the mountains ofAssyria to the Red sea, was adapted to the higher topicsof poetry and argument. Armenia and Abyssinia wereinfected by the speech or learning of the Greeks; andtheir barbaric tongues, which had been revived in thestudies of modern Europe, were unintelligible to the in­habitants of the Roman empire. The Syriac and theCoptic, the Armenian and the Ethiopic, are consecratedin the service of their respective churches; and theirtheology is enriched by domestic versions,' both of theScriptures and of the most popular fathers. After aperiod of thirteen hundred and sixty years, the spark ofcontroversy, first kindled by a sermon of Nestorius, stillburns in the bosom of the east, and the hostile com­munions still maintain the faith and discipline of their * The Syriac, which the natives revere as the primitive language, was divided into three dialects 1. The Aramtean, as it was refined at Edessa and the cities of Mesopotamia. 2. The Palestine, which was used in Jerusalem, Damascus.and therest of Syria, 3. The Nabathwan. the rustic idiom of the mountains of Assyria andthe villages of Irak. (Gregor. Abulpharag. Hist. Dynast, p. 11.) On the Syriac,nee Ebed. Jesu, (Asseman. torn. 3. p. 326, &c.) whose prejudice alone could prefer 'I shall not enrich my ignorance with the spoils of Simon, Walton, Mill, Wet-stein, Assemannus, Ludolphos,'La Croze, whom I have consulted with some care.It appears, 1. That of all the versions which are celebrated by the Others, it isdoubtful whether any are now extant in their pristine integrity. 2. That the Sy­riac has the best claim; and that the consent of the oriental sects is a proof thatit is more ancient than their schisrn.