OCR Output CHAP. 3. ROMAN HISTORY. tuals and sleep, and next morning, as soon as it was^ight, the Roman army was drawn up, a little beforethe /Equi made their appearance, who, at length, -ad­vanced in battalia. The battle was obstinate on both sides. Revenge andpassion animated the Romans, whilst the .ffilqui, consciousof having involved themselves in this difficulty, by theirperfidy; and despairing of future credit,. were stimulatedto make the boldest efforts. They could not, however,stand the charge of the Roman army, but were defeated,and obliged to retire into their own country. Notwith­standing of this chastisement, they were as little as ever"inclined to peace, the licentious populace, upbraidingtheir leaders with risking their cause to a pitched battle,in which the excellency of the Romans consisted. Thatthe /Equi succeeded best, when disposed in plundering•parties, by making inroads, and that it was much saferto trust to an irregular Vvar, by skirmishing parties pro­perly disposed, than to their whole force, in one decisiveaction. CHAP. III.\ New attempts of the Mqni, who are discharged. VV HEREFORE, leaving their camp under a guard,they sallied out with such fury upon the Roman territo­ries, that they spread terror, even to the city. The terrorof this invasion was greatly heightened by the surprise;for an enemy already conquered, and as it were, besieged• in their camp, could not be in the properest trim forplundering excursions, and consequently no formidableobject. The country people, struck with a panic, runup to the very gates, and their fears shewing them everyobject in a magnifying glass, cried out, that it was notsmall foraging parties, but a regular army, and wholelegions of enemies advancing with every hostile purposeto storm the city. They who were nearest the gates,retailed this intelligence to others, and the farther itspread, the more it was magnified'. Such was the con­fusion and noise whilst they called to arms, that, hadthe city been taken, the terror could not have been much K