OCR Output CHAP. LI I. 491 some hesitation, Almansor, the brother and successor ofSaffah, laid the foundations of Bagdad," the imperialseat of his prosperity during a reign of five hundredyears.' The chosen spot is on the eastern bank of theTigris, about fifteen miles above the ruins of Modain:the double wall was of a circular form; and such wasthe rapid increase of a capital, now dwindled to a pro­vincial town, that the funeral of a popular saint might beattended by eight hundred thousand men and sixty thou­sand women of Bagdad and the adjacent villages. Inthis city of peace," amidst the riches of the east, the Ab-bassides soon disdained the abstinence and frugality ofthe first caliphs, aud aspired to emulate the magnificenceof the Persian kings. After his wars and buildings Al­mansor left behind him in gold and silver about thirtymillions sterling ;* and this treasure was exhausted in afew years by the vices or virtues of his children. Hisson Mahadi, in a single pilgrimage to Mecca, expendedsix millions of dinars of gold. A pious and charitablemotive may sanctify the foundation of cisterns and cara-vanseras, which he distributed along a measured road ofseven hundred miles; but his train of camels, ladenwith snow, could serve only to astonish the natives ofArabia, and to refresh the fruits and liquors of the royal •The geographer d'Anville, (1'Euphrate et leTigre, p. 121—123.) and the orien­talist d'Herbelot, (Bibliotheque, p. 167,168.) may suffice for the knowledge ofBagdad. Our travellers, Pietro della Valle, (torn. 1. p. 688—698.) Tavernier,(torn. 1. p. 230—238.) Thevenot, (part 2. p. 209—212.) Otter, (torn. 1. p. 162—168.) and Niebuhr, (Voyage en Arabic, torn. 2. p. 239—271.) have seen only itsdecay: and the Nubian geographer, (p. 204.) and the travelling Jew, Benjamm ofTudela, (Itinerarium, p. 112—123. a Const I'Empereur, apud Elzevir, 1633.) arethe only writers of my acquaintance who have known Bagdad under the reign ofthe Abbassides. lThe foundations of Bagdad were laid A. H. 145. A. D. 762. Mostasem, the lastof the Abbassides, was taken and put to death by the Tartars, A. H. 656, A. D.1258, the 20th of February. • Medinat al Salem, Dar al Salern. Urbs pads,or, as is more neatly compoundedby the Byzantine writers, EipnwroXi; (Irenopolis). There is some dispute concern­ing the etymology of Bagdad, but the first syllable is allowed to signify a gardenin the Persian tongue; the garden of Dad, a Christian hermit, whose cell had beenthe only habitation on the spot. * Refiquit in alrario sexcenties millies mille stateres, et quater et vicies milliesmille aureos aureos. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 126. 1 have reckoned the goldpieces at eight shillings, and the proportion of the silver as twelve to one. But Inil! never answer for the numbers of Erpenius; and the Latins are scarcely abovethe savages in the language of arithmetic.