OCR Output WARS OF TH£ JEWS. Book I. ever a most excellent hunter, where he generally had good suc­cess, by the means of his great skill in riding horses; for in oneday he caught forty wild beasts *; that country breeds alsobears, and the greatest part of it is replenished with stags, andwild asses. He was also such a warrior as could not be with­stood: many men therefore there are who have stood amazed atai& readiness in his exercises, when tbey saw him throw thejavelin directly forward, and to shoot the arrow upon the mark.And then besides these performances of his, depending on hisown strength of mind and body, fortune was also very favour­able to him; for he seldom failed of success in his wars; andwhen he failed, he was not himself the occasion of such failings,but he either was betrayed by some, or the rashness of his ownsoldiers procured his defeat. . - GHAP. XXII. The Murder of Ar'ntohuhts, and Hyrcanvt, the high-priest*^ asalso- of Mariamne the queen. i i. YTCfWEVER, fortune was avenged on Herod in his_Ll eternal great successes, by raising him up domesticaltroubles, and he began to have wild disorders in his family, onaccount of his wife, of whom he was so very fond. For whenhe came to the government, he sent away her whom he had be­fore married, when he was a private person, and who was bornat Jerusalem, whose name was Doris, and married Mariamne,the daughter of Alexander, the son of Aristobulus; on whoseaccount disturbances arose in his family, and that in part verysoon, but chiefly after his return from Rome. For first of all,he expelled Antipater the son of Doris, for the sake of his sonsby Mariamne, out of the city, and permitted him to come thitherat no other times than at the festivals. After this he slew hiswife's grandfather, Hyrcanus, when he was returned out of Par-thia to him, under this pretence, that he suspected him of plot­ting against him. Now this Hyrcanus had been carried captiveto Barzapharnes, when he over-ran Syria; but those of his owncountry beyond Euphrates were desirous he would stay withthem, and this out of the commiseration they had for his condi­tion ; and had he complied with their desires, when they exhort­ed him not to go over the river to Herod, he had not perished:. but themarriage of his grand-daughter [to Herod] was his tempt­ation ;. for as he relied upon him,and was over fond of his own coun- '. -. ' tT7r • Here seems to be a small defect in the copies, which describe the wild beasw-which were hunted in a certain country by Hired, without noising any such coun­try at all. r< 1