OCR Output 4 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. history, than in the fables, of antiquity *., A crowd'of temples and of votive altars profusely scatteredalong its steep and woody banks, attested the un-skilfulness, the terrors, and the devotion of theGrecian navigators, who, after the example of theArgonauts, explored the dangers of the inhospitableEuxine. On these banks tradition long preservedthe memory of the palace of Phineus, infested bythe obscene harpies t; and of the sylvan reign ofAmycus, who defied the son of Leda to the combatof the Cestus. The streights of the Bosphorus areterminated by the Cyanean rocks, which, accordingto the description of the poets, had once floated onthe face of the waters; and were destined by thegods to protect the entrance of the Euxine againstthe eye of profane curiosity. From the Cyaneanrocks to the point and harbour of Byzantium, thewinding length of the Bosphorus extends about six­teen miles, and its most ordinary breadth may becomputed at about one mile and a half. The newcastles of Europe and Asia are constructed, on eithercontinent, upon the foundations of two celebratedtemples, of Serapis and of Jupiter Urius. The oldcastles, a work of the Greek emperors, commandthe narrowest part of the channel, in a place wherethe opposite banks advance within five hundred pacesof each other. These fortresses were restored andstrengthened by Mahomet the Second, when hemeditated the siege of Constantinople: but theTurkish conqueror was most probably ignorant, thatnear two thousand years before his reign, Darius * The Bosphorus has been very minutely described by Dionysius of Byzan­tium, who lived in the time of Dornitian (Hudson Geograph. Minor. torn. iii.),and by Gilles or Gyllius, a French traveller of the XVIth century. TourneforttLettre XV.) seems to have used his own eyes and the learning of Gyllius. t There are very few conjectures so happy as that of Le Clerc (BibliothequeUniverselle, torn. i. p. 148.), who supposes that the harpies were only locusts.The Syriac or Phoenician name of those insects, their noisy flight, the stenchand devastation which they occasion, and the north wind which drives them intothe sea, all contribute to form the striking resemblance.