OCR Output 302 DANGER OF THE JEWS AT ANTIOCII. [B. vll. 2. It happened also about this time that the Jews who re­mained at Antioch were under accusations, and in dangerof perishing, from tho disturbances that were raised againstthem by the Antiochians, and this both on account of theslanders spread abroad at this time against them, and on ac­count of what pranks they had played not long before, whichI am obliged to describe without fail, though briefly, that Imay the better connect ray narration of future actions withthose that went before. 3. For as the Jewish nation is widely dispersed over allthe habitable earth among its inhabitants, so it is very muchintermingled with Syria, by reason of its neighborhood, andhad the greatest multitudes in Antioch, by reason of the large­ness of the city, wherein the kings, after Antiochus, hadafforded them a habitation with the most undisturbed tran­quility ; for though Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes,laid Jerusalem waste, and spoiled the temple, yet did thosethat succeeded him in the kingdom restore all the donationsthat were made of brass to the Jews of Antioch, and dedi­cated them to their synagogue, and granted them the enjoy­ment of equal privileges of citizens with the Greeks them­selves ; and as the succeeding kings treated them after thesame manner, they both multiplied to a great number, andadorned their temple l gloriously by fine ornaments, and withgreat magnificence, in the use of what had been given them.They also made proselytes of a great many of the Greeksperpetually, and thereby after a sort brought them to Iw aportion of their own body. But about this time, when thepresent war began, and Vespasian was newly sailed to Syria,and all men had taken up a great hatred against the Jews, thenit was that a certain person whose name was Antiochus, beingone of the Jewish nation, and greatly respected on accountof his father, who was governor2 of the Jews at Antioch. came 1 i. e., their synagogue. See the note on 13. vi. ch. x. sect. 1. * The Jews at Antioch and Alexandria, the two principal cities in all theeast, had allowed them, both by the Macedonians, and afterward by the Ro­mans, a governor of their own, who was exempt from the jurisdiction of theother civil governors. He was called sometimes barely governor, sometimesethnarch, and [at Alexandria] alabarch, as Dr. Hudson takes notice on this