OCR Output SENA. 9C3 SENONES. It nVcrSena, alluded to by Silius Italicusand Lu-, mint be the small stream now called the Netolaivjcll which falls into the sea at Sinigaglia. (Sil.. rE 453; Lucan, ii. 407.) [K. H. B.]iXA (Salvo, PuJ.: Eth. Senensis: Siena), a tf Kiniris, sometimes called Skka Julia, toxriuh it from the city of the same name onAdriatic. It was situated nearly in the heartitnmt, shout 28 miles E. of Volaterrae and 40f fkrratia. There is no reason whatever tothat there was an Etruscan city on theawl no allusion to its existence occurs beforeBUblubment of the Roman colony. Even theflf this is not accurately known; but it is pro-i fran the epithet of Julia that it was founded» by Caesar himself or by the Triumvirate intmnor. It is singular that its name is noti m the Liber Coloniarum; but its colonial is attested by Pliny, who calls it "coloniasw.*aa well as by Tacitus. (Plin. iii. 5. s.v. Hist it. 45.) It is subsequently mentionedusrny, as well as in the Tabula, which places • iine of mad from Florentia to Clusium.. m. 1. § 49; Tab. Prut.) But it seems neverit turn a place of much importance in ancient\ sad it was not till the middle ages that itu> be one of the first cities of Tuscany. Itremains of antiquity. (Dennis's Etruria,i p. 135.) [E. H.B.] JiA INSULA, in Gallia. On this island, whichipiwte to the coast of the Osismii, was an oracle•silic goddess. Nine virgins named Gal licenseijnue, ed. I. Vossiu.-) had the care of theThey could raise storms by their verses, > themselves into beasts, heal diseases, andI the future, but they were only propitious toi «bo came to consult them. (Mela, iii. 6.) > th« inland of Sein. incorrectly called on theis*e da Saints, which is at the entrance of the Ixmarmenez, and separated from a point ofa Uit coast of Britany (Pointe Hot) by a'channel. D'Anville supposes that this mayvUnj which Strabo places opposite the mouth Loire. This island was inhabited only by wtio were possessed by Dionysus. They! iu man toenter their island; but so far fromt their virginity, they used to visit the men mainland. These two stories are very dif-Mrabu names his island that of the Nam-■ Groskurd (Strab. Traiul. i. p. 198) has it;t name is Sammies in the common texts ofThis seems to be the same island thatu ipeak* of (Perieg. 571) as being visited•jmm of the Ainnitae for the pin-pose of■■■-X the rites of Bacchus. D'Anville furtherbW Pliay (ir. 16) may be speaking of Sena* nentions after the islands which an nearut. *xa*nbu, or Amnis, as some MSS. have it,ar.iM, which is evidently Uxantis or Ouu-Baa, as the Maritime I tin. names it, is meu-bm with Uxjsntia. [G. L.] 1A (Sola, PtoL ii. 1G. (17.) § 2), a Roman« the coast of Liburnia (" Colonia Senensis,". hr 45), and on the road from Aquileia to (/bis. AnL p. 273.) It had a harbour. Pirn. m. 21. a. 25; Geogr. Kuv. iv. 31;'nit) Variously identified with '/.rug or[T. H. D.] "jMAGUS. in Gallia Narbonensis, is men-the Table, and placed north of Avenio»\ oo a road along the east side of the Rhone. Some geographers guess that it may benear the Pont St Esprit. [G. L.] SE'NONES (Strom, Senum, Steph. B. t. v.).Polybius(ii. 17) names the Italian Senones, STjrtivtr.The Roman poets make the penultima short:— "Ut Braccntorum pueri Senonumque minores." (Juv. viii. 234.) An absurd explanation of the name is quoted by Festua(». r. Senones) and by ServiuB (ad Am. viii. 656). The Senones were one of the great Celtic nationswho bordered on the Belgae. (Caes. B. G. ii. 2.)They were north-west of the Acini and bordered onthem. Their capital was Agedincum (Sens), on theright hank of the Yonne, which is a branch of theSeine. (Ptol. ii. 8. $ 12.) The Senones are in theLngdunensis of Ptolemy and Pliny. Besides Age­dincum there were in the country of the Senones,Autissiodurum (Aweerre) and Melodunnm (J/e/un)on the Seine not far from Paris, which shows thattheir territory extended from the neighbourhood ofParit along the Seine and along the Vonne to theborders of the small nation of the Mandubii [Man-dubii], whose town was Alesia, and to the (orders ofthe Lingones, The railroad from Paris to Dijon,which passes near Mtlvn, Fontainebleau, Sent,Joigny, St. Ftorentin, Toimerre on the Armaneon,a branch of the Yonne, runs through the 'country ofthe Senones. Between St. Florentin and Flogny,which is about half-way between St. Florentin and7Wierre. extends a vast plain, level as theses, fer­tile, and in summer covered with wheat. A large partof the territory of the Senones is a fertile country.In seems to have comprehended the dioceses of Sentand A uxerrt. Besides Melodunum and Agedincum,Caesar mentions Vellaunodunum as a town of theSenones (vii. 11), on the side towards the Camntes. The Scnones were at first well disposed to Cjiesar(B. G. ii. 2), probably through fear of their neigh­bours, the Btlgae and the German people north ofthe Mane. Caesar had given them Cavarinus fora king, but the Senones expelled him (v. 54); andwhen the Roman proconsul ordered the senate of theSenones to come to him, they refu-ed. In the springof B. c. 53 Caesar summoned the states of Gallia toa meeting, but the Senones, Camutes, and Treviriwould not come (vi. 3), upon which he transferredthe meeting of the states to Lutetia Parisiorum. Hesays that the Parian bordered on the Senones, and** within the memory of their fathers they had unitedtlieir state with that of the Senones;" but he doesnot explain the nature of this union. He marchedfrom Lutetia (Parit) into the country of the Senones,which presents no difficulties for an anny. TheSenones yielded in spite of Acco, who was the leaderin the revolt; and Caesar took with him Cavarinusand the cavalry of the Senones, in which force it isprobable that they were strong, as their country iswell adapted for grazing and corn. At the close ofthe year Caesar whipjied Acco to death, anil quar­tered six of his legions at Sent for the winter (vi.44). In B. c. 52 the Senones sent 12,000 men withthe rest of the Gallic forces to attack Caesar beforeAlesia (vii. 75). The Senones seem to have givenCaesar no more trouble; but in n. c. 51 Dnippes, aSenon, at the head of a number of desperate men, wasthreatening the Provincia. Drappes was caught andstarved liimself to death. (B. G. viii. 30,44 ) [G.L.} SENONES (Stjpwcci). a nation of Gaulish origin,which was settled in Italy, on the coast of theAdriatic, extending from the river Acsis (Etino), 3 Q S