OCR Output AN. 187.] 437 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. These were the contents of the epistle,which was sent from the king of the Lace­daemonians. But upon the death of Joseph,the people grew seditious, on account of hissons. For whereas the elders made waragainst Hyrcanus, who was the youngest ofJoseph's sons, the multitude was divided:but the greater part joined with the eldersin this war: as did Simon the high-priest, byreason he was of *kin to them. However,Hyrcanus determined not to return to Jeru­salem any more; but seated himself beyondJordan; and was at perpetual war with theArabians, and slew many of them, and tookmany captives. He also erected a strongcastle, and built it entirely of white stone, tothe very roof; and had animals of a prodi­gious magnitude engraven upon it; and alsoencompassed it with a great and deep canalof water. He also made caves of many fur­longs in length; by hollowing a rock thatwas over against him; and then made largerooms in it; some for feasting, and some forsleeping, and living in. He introduced alsoa vast quantity of waters which ran along it,and which were very delightful, and orna­mental in the court. But still he made theentrances at the mouths of the caves so verynarrow, that no more than one person couldenter by them at once. And the reason whyhe built them after that manner was for hisown preservation: lest he should be besiegedby his brethren, and run the hazard of beingcaught by them. Moreover, he built courtsof greater magnitude than ordinary; whichhe adorned with vastly large gardens. Andwhen he had brought the place to this state,he named it Tyre. This place is betweenArabia and Judea, beyond Jordan, not farfrom the country of Heshbon. And he ruledover those parts for seven years: even allthat time that Seleucus was king of Syria. But when he was dead, his brother Antio­chus, surnamed Epiphanes, took the king­dom. Ptolemy, king of Egypt, also died;who was besides called Epiphanes. He lefttwo sons, and both young in age; the elderof whom was called Philometor, and theyounger Physcon. As for Hyrcanus, whenhe saw that Antiochus had a great army,and feared lest he should be caught by him,and brought to punishment for what he haddone to the Arabians, he slew himself withhis own hand: and Antiochus seized uponall his substance. CHAP. V. OF THE ftUARRELS WHICH AROSE RESPECTING THE HIGH-PRIESTHOOD; THE EXPEDITION OF ANTIOCHUS AGAINSTJERUSALEM; THE CRUELTIES EXECUTED ON THE JEWS;ND THE CONDUCT OF THE SAMARITANS. UPON the death of Onias, the high-priest,they gave the high-priesthood to Jesus,his brother; for that son which Onias left,(Onias IV.) was yet but an infant. And inits proper place we will inform the reader ofall the circumstances that befell this child.But this Jesus, who was the brother of Onias,was deprived of the high-priesthood by theking, who was angry with him, and gave it tohis younger brother; whose name also wasOnias. For Simon had these three sons; toeach of whom the high-priesthood came; aswe have falready informed the reader. ThisJesus changed his name to Jason; but Oniaswas called Menelaus. Now as the formerhigh-priest, Jesus, raised a sedition againstMenelaus, who was ordained after him, themultitude were divided between them both.And the sons of Tobias took the part of Me­nelaus, but the greater part of the peopleassisted Jason; and by that means Menelausand the sons of Tobias were distressed, and * Chap. iv. * We have hitherto had but few of those citationswhere Josephus says, that he had elsewhere formerlytreated of many things, of which yet his present bookshave not a syllable. Our commentators have hithertobeen able to give no tolerable account of these citations;which are far too numerous, and that usually in all hiscopies, both Greek and Latin, to be supposed later inter­polations: which is almost all that has been hitherto saidupon this occasion. What I have to observe farther isthis; that we have but very few of these references be­fore, and very many in and after the history of AntiochusEpiphanes and that Josephus's first work, the Hebrew or Chaldee, as well as the Greek history of the Jewishwar, long since lost, began with that very history. Sothat the references are most probably made to the editionof the seven books of the war. See the several other ex­amples: I mean besides those in the chapter before us:in Antiq. XIII. 2. and chap. 4, 6, 8, and 13. and BookXVIII. chap. 2. As for his latter Greek books of thatwar, now extant, they are frequetiy cited hereafter also:and those citations are still extant therein. See Antiq.XIII. 3, and chap. 5 and 10. See also some other placesthat may give some light to this matter. Antiq. XIV. 6,and chap. 7, and XX. chap. 7. Of the War, I. 8. IV. 8\ 6 4B2