OCR Output A. D. 20.] 151 OF TACITUS. were all suppressed. It was also confidently said thatPiso did not lay violent hands on himself, but died bythe stroke of an assassin. For the truth of these as­sertions I do not mean to be answerable; I state thefacts as I heard them related by men with whom Iconversed in my youth; and the anecdotes of suchmen may be deemed worthy of attention. Tiberius attended the next meeting of the senate.He there complained with seeming anxiety, that thedeath of Piso was ' intended to reflect dishonour onhimself. He sent for the freedman, who had receivedthe paper sealed up, as already stated, and inquiredparticularly about his master; how he passed the lastof his days ? and what happened in the course of thenig,ht? The man answered in some instances withcaution, and in others off his guard. The emperorproduced Piso's letter, and read it to the senate. Itwas nearly in the following words: " Oppressed by the4i malice of my enemies, and falling under a load of" imputed guilt, without a friend to espouse the truth," or shelter innocence, I call the immortal gods to wit-"ness, that to you, Csesar, I have through life pre-" served my faith inviolate. For your mother I have" ever felt the sincerest veneration. I conjure you" both to take my sons under your protection. Cneius" Piso is innocent. Nothing that Iiappened in Asia" can be imputed to him, since he remained, during the" whole time, at Rome. His brother Marcus, when I" returned to the province of Syria, was strenuous" against the measure. Would to heaven that I had"yielded to the advice of a young man, and that my44 authority had not silenced all opposition. For him" I offer my fervent prayers; let not the errors of the" father bring down ruin on the son. If in the course" of five-and-forty years I have been devoted to your" service; if Augustus made me his colleague in the4i consulship; if the remembrance of our early friend-4i ship can now avail; by all those ties I implore yourii mercy for my unhappy son. It is the request of44 a dying father; the last I shall ever make." Hemade no mention of Plancina. XVII. Tiberius declared his opinion, that Marcus