OCR Output 378 ROMAN EMPIRE. drew their forces into the plain, and swore to die in thedefence of their religion. But a religion of peace wasincapable of withstanding the fanatic cry of Fight,Jight!Paradise, paradise! that re-echoed in the ranks of theSaracens; and theuproar of the town, the ringing of bells,'and the exclamations of the priests and monks, increasedthe dismay and disorder of the Christians. With theloss of two hundred and thirty men, the Arabs remainedmasters of the field; and the ramparts of Bosra, in expec­tation of human or divine aid, were crowded with holycrosses and consecrated banners. The governor Roma-nus had recommended an early submission: despised bythe people, and degraded from his office, he still retain­ed the desire and opportunity of revenge. In a noctur­nal interview, he informed the enemy of a subterraneouspassage from his house under the wall of the city: theson of the caliph, with a hundred volunteers, were com­mitted to the faith of this new ally, and their successfulintrepidity gave an easy entrance to their companions.After Caled had imposed the terms of servitude and tri­bute, the apostate or convert avowed in the assembly ofthe people his meritorious treason. / renounce yoursociety (said Romanus), both in this world, and theworld to come. And I deny him tliat was crucified, andwhosoever worships him. And I choose God for myLord, Islam for my faith, Mecca for my temple, theMoslems for my brethren, and Mahomet for my pro­phet; who was sent to lead us into the right way, and toexalt the true religion in spite of those who join partnerswith God. The conquest of Bosra, four day's journey from Damas­ a The bells rung.' Ockley, vol. 1. p. 38. Vet I much doubt whether this expres­sion can be justified by the text of Al Wakidi, or the practice of the times. AdGraces, says the learned Ducange, (Glossar. med. et in HIM. Grecitat. torn. 1. p.774.) campanarum usus serius transit et etiam num rarissimus est. Tin oldestexample winch he can find in the Byzantine writers in of the year 1040; but theVenetians pretend, that they introduced bells at Constantinople in the ninthcentury.