OCR Output 3$2 WARS OF THE JEWS'. Book I. stay. The king also bound Antipater, and sent away to informCaesar of his misfortunes. . - 6. Now after this, it was discovered that Antipater had laida plot against Salome also; for one of Antiphilus's domesticservants came, and brought letters from Rome, from a maid­servant of Julia, [Caesar's wife], whose name was Acme. Byher a message was sent to the king, that she had found a let­ter written by Salome, among Julia's papers, and had sent it tohim privately, out of her good-will to him. This letter of Sa­lome contained the most bitter reproaches of the king, and thehighest accusations against him. Antipater had forged this let­ter, and had corrupted Acme, and persuaded her to send it toHerod. This was proved by her letter to Antipater, for thusdid this woman write to him: " As thou desirest, I havewrit-** ten a letter to thy father, and have sent that letter, and am** persuaded that the king will not spare his sister when he reads** it. Thou wilt do well to remember what thou hast promised" when all is accomplished." 7. When this epistle was discovered, and what the epistle for­ged against Salome contained, a suspicion came into the king'smind, that perhaps the letters against Alexander were also for­ged: he was moreover greatly disturbed, and in a passion, be­cause he had almost slain his sister on Antipater's account. Hedid no longer delay therefore to bring him to punishment forall his crimes; yet when he was eagerly pursuing Antipater,he was restrained by a severe distemper he fell into. However,he sent an account to Caesar about Acme, and the' contrivancesagainst Salome, he sent also for his testament, and altered it,and therein made Antipas king, as taking no care of Archelausand Philip, because Antipater had blasted their reputationswith him ; but he bequeathed to Caesar, besides other presentsthat he gave him, a thousand talents ; as also to his wife, andchildren, and friends, and freed-men, about five hundred: healso bequeathed to all others a great quantity of land, and ofmoney, and shewed his respects to Salome his sister, by givingher most splendid gifts. And this was what was contained inhis testament, as it was now altered. CHAP. XXXIII. » The golden eagle is cut to pieces. Herod1 s barbarity when he-was ready to die. He attempts to kill himself. He commandsAntipater to be slain. He survives him Jive days, and then dies. § 1. "\TOW Herod's distemper became more and more severe±\ to him, and this because these his disorders fell upon him