OCR Output 406 NAXUANA. NAXOS. aristocratical party appear to have again pot theupper hand; but they were after a short time ex-pelted by the people, and applied lor assistance toAri&tagoras of Miletus. The Persians, at the per­suasion of Aristagoras, sent a large force in B.C.501 to subdue Naxos: the expedition proved a fail­ure; and Aristagoras, fearing the anger of the Per­sian court, persuaded the Iouians to revolt from thegreat king. (Herod, v. 30—34.) At this periodthe Naxians had 8000 hoplites, many ships of war,and numerous slaves. (Herod, v. 30, 31.) Fromthe 8000 hoplites we may conclude that the freepopulation amounted to 50,000 souls, to which num-ber we may add at least ;ts many slaves. In B. c.490 the Persians under Datis and Artaphernes laudedupon the island, and in revenge for their formerfailure Laid it waste with fire and sword. Most ofthe inhabitants took refuge in the mountains, butthose who remained were reduced to slavery, and theircity set on fire. (Herod, vi. 96.) Naxos became adependency of Persia; but their four ships, w hichwere sent to the Persian fleet, deserted the latter andfought on the side of Grecian independence at thebattle of Sal a mis. (Herod, viii. 40.) They alsotook part in the battle of Plataeae. (Diod. v. 52.)After the Persian wars Naxos became a member ofthe confederacy of Delos under the headship ofAthens; but about B.C. 471 it revolted, and wassubdued by the Athenians, who reduced the Naxiansto the condition of subjects, and established 500Athenian Cleruclis in the island. (Thuc. i. 98, 137;Plut. Pericl. 11; Pans. i. 27. § 6.) From thistime Naxos is seldom mentioned in aucient history.It was off Naxos that Chabrias gained a signal victoryover the Lacedaemonian fleet in it. c. 370, whichrestored to Athena the empire of the sea. (Xen.Jlell v. 4. § 60, seq.; Diod. xv. 34.) During thecivil wars of Koine Naxos was for a short time sub*ject to the Rhodians. (Appian, B. C. v. 7.) After the capture of Constantinople by the Latinsin 1204, the Aegaean sea tell to the lot of the Vene­tians; and Marco Sanudo, in 1207, took possessioncf Naxos, and founded there a powerful state underthe title of the Duchy of the Aegaean Sea (DuxAcgaei Pelagi). He built the large castle above thetown, now in ruins, and fortified it with 12 towers.His dynasty ruled over the greater part of the Cy-cladea for 360 years, and was at length overthrownby the Turks in 1566. (Finlay, Aft-ducal Greece,p. 320, se<].) Naxos now belongs to the new king­dom of Greece. Its population does not exceed12,000, and of these 300 or 400 are Latins, the de­scendants of the Venetian settlers, many of whombear the names of the noblest families of Venice. The ancient capital of the island, also calledNaxos, was situated upon the N\V. coast. Its siteis occupied by the modern capital. On a small de-tached rock, called Paldti, about 50 yards in frontof the harbour, are the ruins of a temple, which tra­dition calla a temple of Dionysus. The westernl^irtal still remains, consisting of three huge marbleslabs, two ]**r|>endicular and one laid across, and isof elegant, though simple workmanship. A drawingof it is given by Tournefoct. Stephanus B. men­tions another town in Naxos called Tragia or Tra-gaea {s. r. T^cry/a), but which Koss believes to bethe small island Makares, between Naxos and I)o-nussa. Aristotle also (ap. Allien, viii. p. 348) men­tioned a plat e, named Lestadae (AT)ora5at)f of whichnothing further is known. In the centre of the island a mountain, now called Zta, rises to the height of 3000 foot Fmro ittsummit 22 islands may I* counted: and in tt* dis­tance may be seen the outline of the incuninrc. ofAsia Minor. This mountain aj-jjears to have Wtacalled Drius (A^i'os) in antiquity (Diod. t. 51); inmodern name is probably derived from the acnettname of the island (Dia). On it there is a cun:<&aHellenic tower; and near the bottom, on tbe naitowards Philoti, an inseriptiun, bpos Atos MtjA^kt^p.Another mountain is called Kororwn (to Kft^wi,which is evidently an ancient name, and mru&ds»«sof the Naxian nymph Gonads, who brought up twyoung Dionysus (Diod. v. 52). The mountain* dNaxos consist partly of granite and partly of m*r^k,the latter being scarcely inferior to that of rare*.Good whetstones were also obtained from Xud(Hesych. s. v. Ka^ta Aitfus; Plin. xxxvi. 6. &. 9.)There are several streams in the island, one of »h:-c!iin ancient times was called Biblus (Bi§Aoi. SlejMi.li. v. BiSMvT)). The fertility of Naxos lias been equally celebratedin ancient and modem times, Herodotus says tiulit excelled all other islands in prosperity (v. 4»JIt produces in abundance corn, oil, wine, ar^i fnJof the finest description. In consequence of the ex­cellence of its wine Naxos was celebrated in tinlegends of Dionysus, jtarticularly those n-Utiag IAri:idne. [See Diet of Bi<«jr. art. Aiuai»s.Mureover, the priest of Dionysus gave 1m nan* Hthe year, like the Archon Eponymus at AlM(Iilk-kh, Insi'r. 2265.) The finest wine of Nanis now produced at a place called AjxrdLho*. hia superior white wine, and is celebrated uj tiislands of the Aegaean under the name ctf JuicedWine. The plant which produces ladanum is foar»d iNaxos; and in Thevenot's time it was collected trxthe beards of goats, in the rnaniicr describe* *Herodotus (iii. 112). Emery is also found UieiiKiiticularly in the southern part of the island, flforms an article of exjort. The goats of Saxwere celebrated in antiquity. (Allien, xii. f*. 6-W One of the most remarkable mrintjti—1 in tiisland is an unfinished colossal figure, ttiil hia£an ancient marble quarry near the northern extrruuof the island. It is about 34 feet in leuzliu ahas always been called by the inhabitants a 6g*Jof Apollo. On the side of the hill, at thr di-Auof live minutes from the statue, we still find Lb* iscript ion, opos xwPl0V i*/»S 'AvdWwvos. Itoe* «jectures that the statue may have been int«?r»ioia dedicatory offering to Deloa. (Thevenot, 7V»np. 103, Engl, trans].; Tournefurt, Vvffa^e, mi.p. 1G3, Engl, trans).; Leake, AorrArm Gr*»vol. iii. p. 93; Ru&s, Reiaen amfden Orin-a. inmvol. i. p. 22, seq.; Grliter, Jte A'ozo Jnsubi, L1833- Curtius, Naxo*t BerL 1846.) COIN' OK THE ISLAND OP >'AX(»Sw NAXIT.VNA (Na^oucb'tt, Ptnl. t. 13w § 1 3city on the N. bank of the river Artie*, now J\dgCvaOy a city of some importance ui Armenian