OCR Output 168 LEUCA. LEUCAS. and hence gave the name of Lf.uteknia to all thesurrounding district. The same story is told, withsome variations, by the pseudo-Aristotle (tie Mirab.97); and the name of Leutarnia is found also inLycophrnn (AUx. 978), whose expressions, however,would have led us to suppose that it was in theneighbourhood of Siris rather than of the Iapygianpromontory. Tzetr.es, (atl Itc.) calls it a city ofItaly, which is evidently only an erroneous inferencefrom the words of his author. The Lateruii ofScylax, whom he mentions as one of the tribes thatinhabited lapygia, may probably be only anotherform of the same name, though we meet in no otherwriter with any allusion to their existence as a realpeople. [E. H. B.] LKUCA,the name given by Pomponius Mcla(i. 16),to a district on the west of Halicaniassus,between thatcity and Myndus. Pliny (IT, Ar. v. 29) mentions atown, Leucopolis, in the same neighbourhood, ofwhich, however, nothing else is known to us. [L. S.] LEUCADIA. [Lki'cas.J LEUCAE or LEUCE (AeO«ai, Ani»rn), a smalltown of Ionia, in the neighbourhood of Phocaea, wassituated, according to Pliny (v. 31), "in pro-montorio quod insula fuit." From Scylax (p. 37)we learn that it was a place with harbours. Accord­ing to Diodorus (xv. 18) the Persian admiral Tachosfounded this town on an eminence on the sea coast, inB.C. 352 ; but shortly after, when Tachos had died,the Clazomenians and Cymaeans quarrelled about itspossession, and the former succeeded by a stratagemin making themselves masters of it. At a later timeLcucae became remarkable for the battle fought inits neighbourhood between the consul LiciuiusCrassusand Aristonicns, B.C. 131. (Strab. xiv. p. 646;Justin, xxxvi. 4.) Some have supposed this placeto be identical with the Leuconium mentioned byThucydi'les (viii. 24) ; but this is impossible, as thislatter place must be looked for in Chios. The siteof the ancient Leucae cannot be a matter of doubt,as a village of the name of I^rrlx, close upon the sea,at the foot of a hill, is evidently the modern repre­sentative of its ancient namesake. (Arundell, .WenChurch™, p. 295.) [L. S.] LEUCAE (Aewfai), a town of Lnconia situatedat the northern extremity of the plain Leuce, nowcalled I'hiniti, which extended inland betweenAcriae and Asoptis on the eastern side of the La-con'un gulf. (1'olyb. v. 19; Liv. xxxv. 27; Strab.viii. p. 363 ; Leake, Moren, vol. i. p. 226, seq.;Bohlaye, /trcherchet, tft. p. 95; Curtius, I'tlvpon-hoom, vc.l. ii. p. 290.) LEUCARUM, a town in Britain, mentioned in theItinerary as being 15 miles from Isca Dumnuni-orum, and 15 from Niduin. The difficulties involvedin this list (viz. that of the 12th Itinerary) are noticedunder Muitltit;>-L'M. The MnnwiwnUi liritimnictisuggests both Glastonbury in Somersetshire, andVvyhor in Glamorganshire. [K. G. L.J LEUCAS (Afuxcii), a place in Bithynia, on theriver Gallna, in the south of Nicaea, is mentionedonly by Anna Comnena (p. 470), but can be easilyidentified, as its name l/fkr is still borne by a neatlittle town in the middle of the beautiful valley oftheGaltus. (Leake. AaaMiaor, pp. 12,13.) [L.S.] LEUCAS, LEUCA'DIA (Aevaat, Thuc, Xen.,Strab.; A»uao8(o, Thuc Lit.: Ktk. Ari*a%oi).an island in the Ionian sea, separated by a narrowchtnnrl from the cmst of Aoniania. It was ori­ginally fart of the mainland, and as such is described jby Homer, who calls it the Actc or jriiinaula of the mainland. ("Airrjj r/w«'f»'<>. Od. xxiv. 877;Strab. x. pp. 451, 452.) Homer also mentions itswoll-fortificd town Neuici's (Nyputot, L e.) It«earliest inhabitants were I/elcgcs and Teieboana(Strab. vii. p. 322), but it was afterwanls peopledby Acarnsnians, who retained possession of it tiUthe middle of the seventh century b. c, when theCorinthians, under Cypselus, founded a new townnear the isthmus, which they called Lencax, wherethey settled 1000 of their citizens, and to whichthey removed the inhabitants of the old town ofNcricus. (Strab. /. c.; Scylax, p. 13; Thnc i. 30;Plut. Them. 24; Scymn. Chius, 464.) Scylax seyathat the town was first called EpilcucadiL TheCorinthian colonists dug a canal through this is;b-mus, and thus converted the peninsula into enisland. (Strab. i.e.) This canal, which was calWDioryctus, and was, according to Pliny, 3 stadia ialength (AuipvKTor, Polyb. T. 5; Plin. ir. 1. a. 2),was after filled up by deposits of sand; and in thePeloponnesian War, it was no longer available farships, which during that period were conveyed acrossthe isthmus on more than one occasion. (Thuc. iiu81, iv. 8.) It was in the same state in b-c. 2I*1;for Polybius relates (v. 5) that Philip, the son ofDemetrius, had his galleys drawn across this isth­mus in that year; and Livy, in relating the siege ofLeucas by the Romans in B.C. 197, says, " Lrncadia,nunc insula, et vadoso frcto quod perfossum manuest, ab Acamania divisa" (xxxjii. 17). The tub-sequent restoration of the canal, and the constructionof a stone bridge, both of which were in existencein the time of Strabo, were no doubt the work of tbsRomans; the canal was probably restored soon afterthe Roman conquest, when the Romans separatedLeucas from the Acarnanian confederacy, ami thebridge was perhaps constructed by order of Augustuswhose policy it was to facilitate communicationsthroughout his dominions. Leucadia is about 20 miles in length, and from5 to 8 miles in breadth. It resembles the Isle of.Man in shape and size. It consists of a range oflimestone mountains, terminating at its north-easternextremity in a bold and rugged headland, whencethe coast runs in a south-west direction to the pro­montory, anciently called Lours toe, which has beencorrupted by the Italians into Cape Ducato. Tbename of the cape, as well as of the island, is ofcourse derived from its irkite clifla. The southernshore is more soft in aspect, and more sloping aasdcultivated than the rugged rocks of the northerncoast; but the most populous and wooded district isthat opposite Acamania. The interior of the islandwears everywhere a rugged aspect. There is batlittle cultivation, except where terraces have beeaplanted on the mountain sides, and covered withvineyunls. The hichest ridge of the mountains n«about 3000 feet above the sea. Between the northern coast of Louradia anil thatof Acamania there is at present a lagoon about3 miles in length, while it* breadth varies from100 yards to a mile and a half. Tbe laguon is hamost parts only about 2 feet deep. This part estthe roast requires a more particular dncriplio,which will be rendered clearer by the accooipanyinj;plan. At the north-eastern extremity of Leoesszina lido, or spit, of sand, 4 miles in length, swwpmcut towards Acamania. (See Plan, A.) (In asisolated point opposite the extremity of Um sand*bank, is the fort of S*mta J/ourc, erected in ttiemiddle ages by one of the Latin princes, hut repaints!