OCR Output 34 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. A general outcry followed. They complained of theprice exacted for relaxations of duty; they mentionedthe miserable pittance which they received for theirdaily pay; they set forth their various hardships, andin particular their unremitting labour at the intrench-ments, the fatigue of carrying provisions, wood, andforage, with a detail of other employments, sometimesimposed by necessity, and frequently to prevent idle­ness in the camp, The clamour of the veterans wasoutrageous; they had served thirty years and more,and when were they to expect a cessation of misery ?They desired a retreat for old ago, that they mightnot languish in despair, and wait till the hand of deathreleased them from their troubles. Some demandedimmediate payment of the legacies bequeathed byAugustus. They offered up ardent vows for the suc­cess of Germanicus; assuring him, if he wished toseize the sovereign power, that they were to a mandevoted to his service. Struck with horror, and dreading the contagion ofso foul a crime, Germanicus leaped from the tribunal.The soldiers sword in hand opposed his passage, andeven threatened violence if he did not return. Theprince was resolved to perish, rather than forfeit hishonour. He drew his sword, and pointed it to hisbreast, ready to plunge it to his heart. The peoplenear him stopped his hand; but the crowd at a dis­tance, and even some who dared to advance, had theinsolence to bid him strike: one in particular, byname Calusidius, presented a naked sword, adding atthe same time, Take this; it is sharper than your own.This behaviour, even in the moment of frenzy, ap­peared to the soldiers an atrocious act. A pauseensued. The friends of Germanicus seized the oppor­tunity, and conveyed him to his tent. XXXVI. A Council was immediately called. Itwas well known that the insurgents were preparinga depu tation to the army on the Upper Rhine, in orderto engage them in the revolt, and make it a commoncause. The city of the Ubians was devoted to de­struction. From the pillage of thaf place, the planof the mutineers was to proceed to greater lengths^