OCR Output 870 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. replies, and gave Manahem his hand, and dismissed him, and fromthat time he continued to honour all the Essens. We havethought it proper to relate these facts to our readers, how strangesoever they be, and to declare what hath happened among us,because many of the Essens have by their excellent virtue, beenthought worthy of his knowledge of divine revelations. CHAP. XI. Haw Herod rebuilt the temple, and raised it higher, and madeit more magnificent than it was before ,' as also concerning thattower which he called Antonia. % 1. AND now Herod, in the eighteenth year of his reign,and after the acts already mentioned, undertook a very greatwork, that is, to build of himself the * temple of God, andmade it larger in compass, and to raise it to a most magnificentaltitude, as esteeming it to be the most glorious of all his ac­tions, as it really was, to bring it to perfection, and this wouldbe sufficient for an everlasting memorial of him; but as he knewthe multitude were not ready nor willing to assist him in so vasta design, he thought to prepare them first by making a speech tothem, and then set about the work itself; so he called them to­gether, and spake thus to them: "I think I need not speak to"you, my countrymen, about such other works as I have done"since I came to the kingdom, although I may say they have"been performed in such a manner as to bring more security"to you than glory to myself; for I have neither been negligent"in the most difficult times about what tended to ease your ne-"cessities, nor have the buildings I have made been so proper to"preserve me as yourselves from injuries; and I imagine that,"with God's assistance, I have advanced the nation of the Jews"to a degree of happiness which they .never had before; and"for the particular edifices belonging to your own country, and"your own cities, that we have lately acquired, which we have"erected and greatly adorned, and thereby augmented the dig-"nity of your nation, it seems to me a needless task to enume­ * We may here observe, that the fancy of the modern Jews, in calling thistemple, which was really the third of their temples, the second temple, follow­ed so long by later Christians, seems to be without any solid foundation. Thereason why the Christians here followed the Jews, is, because the prophecy ofHaggai ii. C—9. which they expound of ihe Messiah's coming to the second orZorobabel's temple, of which they suppose this of Herod's to be only a continua­tion, which is meant, I think, of his coming to the/o«r(A and last temple, or tothat future, largest, and most glorious one, described by Ezekiel: whence 1 take theformer notion, how general soever, to be a great mistake. See Lit. Accomp. ofTroph. p. 24.