OCR Output 456 ROMAN EMPIRE. number of helmets and lances.' The most powerful ofhis successors derived from the same kingdom the an­nual tribute of twelve millions and forty-five thousanddinars or pieces of gold, about six millions of sterlingmoney ;k a sum which, in the tenth century, most proba­bly surpassed the united revenues of the Christiian mo-narchs. His royal seat of Cordova contained six hun­dred moschs, nine hundred baths, and two hundredthousand houses: he gave laws to eighty cities of thefirst, to three hundred of the second and third, order;and the fertile banks of the Guadalquiver were adornedwith twelve thousand villages and hamlets. The Arabsmight exaggerate the truth, but they created and theydescribe the most prosperous era of the riches, the cul­tivation, and the populousness of Spain.1Religious The wars of the Moslems were sanctified bytoleration. tne prophet; but among the various preceptsand examples of his life, the caliphs selected the lessonsof toleration that might tend to disarm the resistance ofthe unbelievers. Arabia was the temple and patrimonyof the God of Mahomet; but he beheld with less jea­lousy and affection the nations of the earth. The Poly-theists and idolaters who were ignorant of his name,might be lawfully extirpated by his votaries,"1 but a wise 'Bibliot. Arabico-Hispana, torn. 2. p. 104. Casiri translates the original testi­mony of the historian Rasis, as it is alleged, in the Arabic (Biographia Hispanica,pars 9. But I am most exceedingly surprised at the address, Principibus cste-risque Christianis Hispanis suis CeattUa. The name of Castells was unknown inthe eighth, century ; the kingdom was not erected till the year 1022, a hundredyears after the time of Rasis, (Bibliot. torn. 2. p. 330.) and the appellation wasalways expressive, not of a tributary province, but of a line of outlet independentof the Moorish yoke. (D'Anville, Etats de 1'Europe, p. 166—170.) Had Casiribeen a critic, he would have cleared a difficulty, perhaps of his own making. k Cardonne, torn. 1. p. 337, 338. He computes the revenue at one hundred andthirty millions of French livres. The entire picture of peace and prosperity relieve!the bloody uniformity of the Moorish annals. 1 I am happy enough to possess a splendid and interesting work, which has onlybeen distributed in presents by the court of Madrid; Bibliatheca Arabico-HifpawiEicuriatenris, opera, et studio Michaelis Casiri, Syro-Maronila : Marriti, in folio, lamiaprior, 1760, towns posterior, 1770. The execution of this work does honour to theSpanish press: the MSS. to the number of one thnusandeighthundred and fifty-one,are judiciously classed by the editor, and his copious extracts throw tome lighton the Mahometan literature and history of Spain. These relics are now secure,but the task has been supinely delayed, till, in the year 1671, a fire consumed thegreatest part of the Escurial library, rich in the spoils of Grenada and Morocco. 10 The Harbii, as they are styled, qui tolerari neqneunt, are, 1. Those who, tmvin