OCR Output CHAP. 3O. ROMAN HISTORY. 447 by the advice of the senate, trusting to their promisedprotection. • * - . •'.'' CHAP. XXX. Disputes about settling at Veit. The Fathers prevail. JjY haranguing openly to this purpose, he daily incens­ed the people against him' more and more. As to thelaw in question, he never ceased to spirit up the fathersagainst it: telling them, 'That they ought not to godown to the forum upon the day when the law was tobe proposed, but as to a field of battle, where theyshould remember, they were to fight for their altars;their fire-sides, the temples of their gods, and the placewhich had given them birth. That with regard to him­self, considered in a private Capacity, could he allovrhimself to think of his own glory, when that of hiscountry came in competition, riothirig could flatter iiisambition more, than to see a city, which he had re­duced, filled with inhabitants, wlio could be so many.living witnesses of his glory, and constantly present to,him the monuments of his viplftry, where nobody couldmove a step but on the. t-race^, pf hisiatchievemgnts.• But it was impious to conceive thoughts of inhabitinga city, forsaken and abandoned b'y the immortal gpds,and shameful to propose, that the Roman people shouldreside on a captive soil, and prefer to their pwij.ceun-.try, a country conquered by it.' , .The senators old and young, roused with, these e^hpr-tations of-their champion, when the law was to be pro­posed, went all in a body to the forum, and dispersingthemselves among the tribes, each addressed himself totheir fellow citizens of his own tribe, and began to beg,with tears in their eyes, that they would not abandon thatcountry, for which they and their fathers had fought\vith so much valour and success; pointing, at the sametime to the capitol, the temple of Vesta, and other templesaround them, conjuring them not to drive t|ie Romanpeople, like felons and exiles, from their native country'and their guardian gods; to Inhabit a city but latelypeopled by their enemies, and bring matters to that pass,