OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. licited the friendship and aid of Chosroes. The saga­cious monarch instantly discerned the use and impor­tance of Colchos; and meditated a plan of conquest,which was renewed at the end of a thousand years byShah Abbas, the wisest and most powerful of his suc­cessors.1" His ambition was fired by the hope of launch­ing a Persian navy from the Phasis, of commandingthe trade and navigation of the Euxine sea, of deso­lating the coast of Pontus and Bithynia, of distressing,perhaps of attacking, Constantinople, and of persuadingthe barbarians of Europe to second his arms and coun­sels against the common enemy of mankind. Under thepretence of a Scythian war, he silently led his troops tothe frontiers of Iberia; the Colchian guides were pre­pared to conduct them through the woods and along theprecipices of mount Caucasus*; and a narrow path waslaboriously formed into a safe and spacious highway, forthe march of cavalry, and even of elephants. Gubazeslaid his person and diadem at the feet of the king of Per­sia; his Colchians imitated the submission of their prince:and after the walls of Petra had been shaken, the Romangarrison prevented, by a capitulation, the impending furyof the last assault. But the Lazi soon discovered, thattheir impatience had urged them to choose an evil moreintolerable than the calamities which they strove to es­cape. The monopoly of salt and corn was effectuallyremoved by the loss of those valuable commodities. Theauthority of a Roman legislator was succeeded by thepride of an oriental despot, who beheld with equal dis­dain, the slaves whom he had exalted, and the kingswhom he had humbled before the footstool of his throne.The adoration of fire was introduced into Colchos bythe zeal of the Magi: their intolerant spirit provokedthe fervour of a Christian people; and the prejudice of V See the amusing letters of Pietro della Valle, the Roman traveller. (Viaggi, torn.2. p. 207. 209. 213. 216. 266. 286. 300. torn. 3. p. 54. 127.) In the years 1618,1G19, and 1620, he conversed with Shall Abbas, and strongly encouraged a designwhich might have united Persia and Europe agaiust their common enemy theTurk.