OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 4O7 nor did he set any bounds to himself, but supposing that thosewho staid with him had the most power to hurt him, they wereto him very frightful; and for those that did not use to cometo him, it seemed enough to name them [to make them suspected]and he thought himself safer when they were destroyed: And atlast his domestics were come to that pass, that being no way se­cure of escaping themselves, they fell to accusing one another,and imagining that he who first accused another, was most likelyto save himself; yet, when any had overthrown others, theywere hated, and they were thought to suffer justly, who unjustlyaccused others, and they only thereby prevented their ownaccusation; nay, they now executed their own private enmitiesby this means, and when they were caught, they were punishedin the same way. Thus these men contrived to make use ofthis opportunity as an instrument and a snare against their ene­mies, yet when they tried it, were themselves caught also in thesame snare which they kid for others: And the king soon re­pented of what he had done, because he had no clear evidence ofthe guilt of those whom he had slain; and yet what was stillmore severe in him, he did not make use of his repentance, inorder to leave off doing the like again, but in order to inflictthe same punishment upon their accusers. 8. And in this state of disorder were the affairs of the palace:and he had already told many of his friends directly, that theyought not to appear before him, nor come into the palace; andthe reason of this injunction was, that [when they were there]he had less freedom of acting, or a greater restraint on himselfon their account: for at this time it was that he expelled An-dromachus and Gamellus, men who had of old been his friends,and been very useful to him in the affairs of his kingdom, andbeen of advantage to his family, by their embassages and coun­sels; and had been tutors to his sons, and had in a manner thefirst degree of freedom with him. He expelled Andromachus,because his son Demetrius was a companion to Alexander; andGamellus, because he knew that he wished him well, whicharose from his having been with him in his youth, when he wasat school, and absent at Rome. These he expelled out of hispalace, and was willing enough to have done worse by them;but that he might not seem to take such liberty against men oi"so great reputation, he contented himself with depriving themof their dignity, and of their power to hinder his wicked pro­ceedings. -t. Now it was Antipater, who was the cause of all this; whowhen he knew what a mad and licentious way of acting his fa­ther was in, and had been a great while one of his counsellors,be hurried him on, and then thought he should bring him to do