OCR Output Cluvp. XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 303 yet was she not able to prevail with him to stay there, becausehe was making haste to Rome, even though the weather wasstormy, and he was informed that the affairs of Italy were verytumultuous and in great disorder. 3. So he set sail from thence to Pamphylia, and falling into aviolent storm, he had much ado to escape to Rhodes, with theloss of the ship's burden; and there it was that two of his friends,Sappinas and Ptolemeus, met with him: and as he found thatcity very much damaged in the war against Cassius, though hewei-e in necessity himself, he neglected not to do it a kindness,but did what he could to recover it to its former state. He alsobuilt there a three-decked ship, and set sail thence, with hisfriends, for Italy, and came to the port of Brundusium; andwhen he was come from thence to Rome, he first related to An­tony what had befallen him in Judea, and how Phasaelus hisbrother was seized on by the Parthians, and put to death by them;and how Hyrcanus was detained captive by them, and howthey had made Antigonus king, who had promised them a sumof money, no less than a thousand talents, with five hundred wo­men, who were to be of the principal families, and of the Jew­ish stock, and that he had carried off the women by night, andthat by undergoing a great many hardships, he had escaped thehands of his enemies; as also, that his own relations were in dan­ger of being besieged and taken, and that he had sailed througha storm, and contemned all these terrible dangers of it, in orderto come, as soon as possible to him, who was his hope andonly succour at this time. 4. This account made Antony commiserate * the change thathad happened in Herod's condition; and reasoning with himselfthat this was a common case among those that are placed in suchgreat dignities, and that they are liable to the mutations thatcome from fortune, he was very ready to give him the as­sistance he desired, and this because he called to mind the friend­ship he had had with Antipater, because Herod offered him mo­ney to make him king, as he had formerly given it him to makehim tetrarch, and chiefly because of his hatred to Antigonus, forhe took him to be a seditious person, and an enemy to the Ro­mans. Caesar was also the forwarder to raise Herod's dignity,and to give him his assistance in what he desired, on account ofthe toils of war which he had himself undergone with Antipaterhis fathei in Egypt, and of the hospitality he had treated him * Concerning the chronology of Herod, and the time when he was fiW madeking at Rome, and concerning the time when he began his second reign, without arival, upon the conquest and slaughter of Antigonus, both principally derived fromthis and the two next chapters in .Joseplms, see the note on sect. 6, and chap. xv.»i;t. 10.