OCR Output Chap. XXVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 333 did not they confess any thing of what the king had been inform­ed; but a certain letter was produced, as written by Alexanderto the governor of a castle, to desire him to receive him and A-ristobulus into the castle when he had killed his father, and togive them weapons, and what other assistance he could, upon thatoccasion. Alexander said, that this letter was a forgery of Dio-phantus. ThisDiophantuswasthe king's secretary, a bold man,and cunning in counterfeiting any one's hand; and after he hadcounterfeited a great numberj^he was at last put to death for it.Herod did also order the governor of the castle to be tortured,but got nothing out of him of what the accusations suggested. 4. However, although Herod fonnd the proofs too weak, hegave order to have his sons kept in custody; for till'now theyhad been at liberty. He also called that pest of his family, andforger of all this vile accusation, Eurycles, his saviour and be­nefactor, and gave him a reward of fifty talents. Upon whichhe prevented any accurate accounts that could come of what hehad done, by going immediately into Cappadocia, and there hegot money of Archelaus, having the impudence to pretend thathe had reconciled Herod to Alexander. He thence passed overinto Greece, and used what he had thus wickedly gotten to thelike wicked purposes. Accordingly, he was twice accused be­fore Caesar, that he had filled Achaiawith sedition, and had plun­dered its cities; and so he was sent into banishment. And thuswas he punished far what wicked actions he had been guilty of,about Aristobulus and Alexander. 5. But it will be now worth while to put Euaratos of Cos inOpposition to this Spartan ; for as he was one of Alexander'smost intimate friends, and came to him in his travels at the sametime that Eurycles came, so the king put the question to him,whetherthose things of which Alexander was accusedweretrue?He assured him upon oath, that he had never heard any suchthings from the young men; yet did this testimony avail no­thing for the clearing those miserable creatures; for Herodwas only disposed and most ready to hearken to what made a-gainst them ; and every one was most agreeable to him, thatwould believe they were guilty, and shewed their indignation atthem. CHAP. XXVII. Herod, ly Cxsar's direction, accuses hit sons at fcerytus. Tt>eyare not produced before the court, but yet are condemned; andin a little time they are sent to Sebaste, and strangled thert. § 1. A/T OREO VER Salome exasperated Herod's cruelty a-i-YJL gainst his sons; for Aristobulus was desirous tobring her,