OCR Output 158 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. from the inroads of the Barbarians, he diligently re-XVL paired; and seven important posts, between Mentzand the mouth of the Rhine, are particularly men­tioned, as having been rebuilt and fortified by theorder of Julian. The vanquished Germans had sub­mitted to the just but humiliating condition of pre­paring and conveying the necessary materials. Theactive zeal of Julian urged the prosecution of thework; and such was the spirit which he had diffusedamong the troops, that the auxiliaries themselves,waving their exemption from any duties of fatigue,contended in the most servile labours with the dili­gence of the Roman soldiers. It was incumbent onthe Caesar to provide for the subsistence, as well asfor the safety, of the inhabitants and of the garrisons.The desertion of the former, and the mutiny of thelatter, must have been the fatal and inevitable con­sequences of famine. The tillage of the provincesof Gaul had been interrupted by the calamities ofwar; but the scanty harvests of the continent weresupplied, by his paternal care, from the plenty ofthe adjacent island. Six hundred large barks, framedin the forest of the Ardennes, made several voyagesto the coast of Britain; and returning from thenceladen with corn, sailed up the Rhine, and distri­buted their cargoes to the several towns and fortressesalong the banks of the river *. The arms of Julianhad restored a free and secure navigation, whichConstantius had offered to purchase at the expenseof his dignity, and of a tributary present of twothousand pounds of silver. The emperor parsimo­niously refused to his soldiers the sums which hegranted with a lavish and trembling hand to the * We may credit Julian himself, Orat. ad S. P. Q. Atheniensem, p. 280. whogives a very particular account of the transaction. Zosimus adds two hundredvessels more, 1. iii. p. 145. If we compute the 600 corn ships of Julian at onlyseventy tons each, they were capable of exporting 120,000 quarters Csee Arbuth-not'» Weights and Measures, p. 237.); and the country which could bear soUrge an exportation muat already have attained an improved state of agriculture.