OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. 231 * Eleazar, a man of an ill temper, and delighting in seditiouspractices. This man said, "since thou desirest to know the"truth, if thou wilt be righteous in earnest, lay down the high"priesthood, and content thyself with the civil government of"the people." And when he desired to know for what causehe ought to lay down the high priesthood, the other replied,"We have heard it from old men, that thy mother had been"a captive under the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes." Thisstory was false, and Hyrcanus was provoked against him; andall the Pharisees had a very great indignation against him. 6. Now there was one Jonathan, a very great friend of Hyr­canus', but of the sect of the Sadducees, whose notions are quitecontrary to those of the Pharisees. He told Hyrcanus, that"Eleazar had cast such a reproach upon him, according to the"common sentiments of all the Pharisees, and that this would"be made manifest, if he would but ask them the question, what"punishment they thought this man deserved? for that he might"depend upon it, that the reproach was not laid on him with their"approbation, if they were for punishing him as his crime de-"served." So the Pharisees made answer, that " he deserved"stripes and bonds, but that it did not seem right to punish re-"proaches with death." And indeed the Pharisees, even uponother occasions, are not apt to be severe in punishments. Atthis gentle sentence, Hyrcanus was very angry, and thought thatthis man reproached him by their approbation. It was this Jona­than who chiefly irritated him, and influenced him so far, thathe made him leave the party of the Pharisees, and abolish thedecrees they had imposed on the people, and to punish those thatobserved them. From this source arose that hatred which heand his sons met with from the multitude; but of these matterswe shall speak hereafter. What I would now explain is this,that the Pharisees have delivered to the people a great many ob­servances by succession from their fathers, which are not writ­ten in the laws of Moses; and for that reason it is that the Sad­ducees reject them, and say, that we are to esteem those observ­ances to be obligatory which are in the written word, but arenot to observe what are derived from the tradition of our fore­fathers. And concerning these things it is that great disputesand differences have arisen among them, while the Sadducees areable to persuade none but the rich, and have not the populaceobsequious to them, but the Pharisees have the multitude on * This slander, that arose from a Pharisee, has been preserved by their successorsthe Rabbins, to these later ages, for Dr. Hudson assures us, that David Gantz, inbis Chronology, S. pr. p. 77. in Vorstius* version, relates that Hyrcanus' motherwas taken captive in mount Modiith. See chap. xiii. sect. 5.