OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 281 out reflecting dishonor on the edile Lucullus. PubliusyElius Tubero and Lucius Lsetorius, plebeian ediles, onsome irregularity being discovered in their election,abdicated their office, after they bad celebrated thegames, and, on occasion thereof, a feast to Jupiter;having also erected in the capitol three images, formedof silver raised by fines. The dictator and master ofthe horse, in pursuance of a decree of the senate, cele­brated the games of Ceres. 40. When the Roman deputies, together with theCarthaginian ambassadors, were come to Rome fromAfrica, the senate assembled in the temple of Bellona.Lucius Veturius Philo acquainted them (to the greatjoy of the fathers), that a battle had been fought withHannibal, in which the Carthaginians were finallyoverpowered, and an end put at last to that disastrouswar; he added, as a small accession to that greatand happy event, that Vermina, son of Syphax, hadalso been vanquished. He was then ordered to go outto the general assembly, and to communicate the joy­ful news to the people. On this, after mutual congra­tulations, a public thanksgiving being ordered, all thetemples in the city were thrown open, and a supplica­tion for three days decreed. The ambassadors of theCarthaginians, and of king Philip, for they also hadarrived, requesting an audience of the senate, the dic­tator answered, by order of the fathers, that the newconsuls would procure them an audience. The elec­tions were then held. [A. U. C. 051. B. C. 201.] Theconsuls elected were Cneius Cornelius Lentulns andPublius jElius Pa?tus; the pretors, Marcus JuniusPennns, to whom the city jurisdiction fell; MarcusValerius Falto acquired by lot Bruttium ; Marcus Fa-bius Buteo, Sardinia; Publius jElius Tubero, Sicily.With respect to the provinces of the consuls, it wasdetermined that nothing should be done until the am­bassadors of king Philip and the Carthaginians wereheard; for it was plainly foreseen that the conclusionof the one war would be quickly followed by the com­mencement of another. The consul Cneius Lenlulus