OCR Output 90 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANTJS. [B. IV. lying pretence these men made for so flagrant an enormitywas this, that these men had had conferences with the Romansfor a surrender of Jerusalem to them; and so they said theyhad slain only such as were traitors to their common liberty.Upon the whole, they grew the more insolent upon this boldprank of theirs, as though they had been the benefactors andsaviors of the city. 6. Now the people were come to that degree of meannessand fear, and these robbers to that degree of madness, thatthese last took upon them to appoint high-priests.1 So whenthey had disannulled the succession, according to those familiesout of which the high-priests used to be made, they ordainedcertain unknown and ignoble persons for that office, that theymight have their assistance in their wicked undertakings; forsuch as obtained this highest of all honors, without anydesert, were forced to comply with those that bestowed it onthem. They also set the principal men at variance one withanother, by several sorts of contrivances and tricks, andgained the opportunity of doing what they pleased, by themutual quarrels of those who might have obstructed theirmeasures; till at length, when they were satiated with theunjust actions they had done toward men, they transferredtheir contumelious behavior to God himself, and came intothe sanctuary with polluted feet. 7. And now the multitude were going to rise against themalready; for Ananus, the ancientest of the high-priests, per­suaded them to it. He was a very prudent man, and had,perhaps, saved the city, if he could but have escaped thehands of those that plotted against him. Those men made 1 Here we may discover the utter disgrace and ruin of the high-priest­hood among tho Jews, when undeserving, ignoble, and vile persons wereadvanced to that noble office by the seditious ; which sort of high-priests,as Josephus well remarks here, were thereupon obliged to comply with andassist those that advanced them in their impious practices. Tho names ofthese high-priests, or rather ridiculous and profane persons, were Jesus, thoson of Damneus, Jesus, the sou of Gamaliel, Matthias, the son of Theophilus,and that prodigious ignoramus Phannias, the son of Samuel; all which weshall meet with in Josephus's future history of this war; nor do wc meetwith any other so much as pretended high-priest after rhannias, till Jcru-salem was taken and destroyed.