OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. for the difference of manners, might well deserve the imitation ofmodern princes. Alexander rose early: the first moments of the daywere consecrated to private devotion, and his domestic chapel wasfilled with the. images of those heroes, who, by improving or reforn*-irig human life, had deserved the grateful reverence of posterity.But, as he deemed the service of mankind the most acceptableworship of the gods, the greatest part of his morning hours waSemployed in his council, where he discussed public affairs, anddetermined private causes, with a patience and discretion above hisyears. The dryness of business was relieved by the charms ofliterature; and a portion of time was always set apart for his fa­vourite studies of poetry, history, and philosophy. The works ofVirgil and Horace, the republics of Plato and Cicero, formed histaste, enlarged his understanding, and gave him the noblest ideas ofman and government. The exercises of the body succeeded tothose of the mind; and Alexander, who was tall, active, and ro­bust, surpassed most of his equals in the gymnastic arts. Refreshedby the use of the bath and a flight dinner, he resumed, with newvigour, the business of the day, and, till the hour of supper, theprincipal meal of the Romans, he was attended by his secretaries,with whom he read and answered the multitude of letters, memo­rials, and petitions, that must have been addressed to the master ofthe greatest part of the world. His table was served with the mostfrugal simplicity; and whenever he was at liberty to consult hisown inclination, the company consisted of a few select friends,men of learning and virtue, amongst whom Ulpian was con­stantly invited. Their conversation was familiar and instructive;and the pauses were occasionally enlivened by the recital of some pleas­ing composition, which supplied the place of the dancers, come­dians, and even gladiators, so frequently summoned to the tablesof the rich and luxurious Romans 7". The dress of Alexander wasplain and modest, his demeanor courteous and affable: at the- X 2 proper