OCR Output MAGNA GRAECIA. 251 MAGNA GRAECIA. There can be no doubt that the cities of MagnaGrama liad suffered severely during these wars: theforeign troops placed within their walls, whetherRoman or Greek, appear to have given way to simi­lar excesses; and the garrisons of Pyrrhus at Locriand Tarentum were guilty of exactions and crueltieswhich aimerst rivalled those of the Campanians atRhegium. In addition to the loss of their indepen-drnre, therefore, it is certain that the war of Pyrrhusinflicted a mortal blow on the prosperity of the fewGnvk cities in Southern Italy which had survivedtheir long-continued struggles with the Lucaiuansand Rmttiaiu. The decayed and enfeebled con­dition of the once powerful Crotona (Liv. xxiii. 30)was undoubtedly common to many of her neighboursand farmer rivals. There were, however, some ex­cretions; Ueraclea especially, which had earned thefavour of Home by a timely submission, obtained atreaty of alliance on unusually favourable terms(Cic. pro Bulb. 22). and seems to have continuedin a flourishing condition. But the final blow to the prosperity of MagnaGraecia was inflicted by the Second Punic War. Itm probable that the Greek cities were viewed withuiifavourable eyes by the Roman government, andwere naturally desirous to recover their lost inde­pendence. Hence they eagerly seized the opportu­nity afforded by the victories of Hannibal, and afterthe battle of Cannae we are told that almost all theGreek cities on 'the S. coast of Italy (GraecorumomttU Jerme ora, Liv. xxii. 61) declared in favourof the Carthaginian cause. Some of these were,Inaever, overawed by Roman garrisons, which re-atrained them from open defection. Tarentum itself(still apparently the most powerful city in this partof Italy) was among the number; and though thecity ittelf was betrayed into the hands of the Car­thaginian commander, the citadel was still retainedhj a Roman garrison, which maintained its footing•until the city was recovered by Fabius, u. c. 209.(Liv. xxv. 8—11, xxvii. 15, 16.) Tarentum wason this occasion treated like a captured city, andplundered without mercy, while the citizens wereeither put to the sword or sold as slaves. Meta-pontuni was only saved from a similar fate by therercnral of its inhabitants and their property, whenHannibal was compelled to abandon the town ; andat a later period tf the war Terina was utterlydestroyed by the Carthaginian general. (Liv. xxvii.51; Strab. vi. 256.) Locri and Crotona were takenand retaken: Rhegium alone, which maintained itsfidelity to Rime inviolate, though several timesattempted by a Carthaginian force, seems to havein great measure escaped the ravages of the war. It is certain that the cities of Magna Graeciar-rrer recovered from this long series of calamities.We have very little information as to their conditionnndcB* the government of the Roman Republic, or theT«rtkular regulations to which they were subjected.But it ia probable that, until after the completeKiLjogation of Greece and Macedonia, they wereinked upon with a jealous eye as the natural alliesof U>fir kinsmen beyond the seas (Liv. xxxi. 7);and even the colonics, whether of Roman or Latinritizena, which were settled on the coasts of South­ern Italy, were probably designed rather to keepd>wn the previous inhabitants than to recruit theexhausted population. One of these colonies, thatto Paidonia. now- known as Paestum, had beenestablished At ft period as early as «. c. 273 (Liv.EpiL liv.; VelL Pat. i. 14); and Brunduaium, which subsequently rose to be so important a city,was also settled before the Second Punic War, b. c.244. (Veil. Pat /. c.; Liv. EpiL xix.) But, withthese exceptions, all the Roman colonies to the coastsof Lucania, Bruttium, and Calabria, date from theperiod subsequent to that war. Of these, Buxeutumin Lucania and Tempsa in Bruttium were settledas early as b. c. 194 ; and in the same year a bodyof Roman colonists was established in the oncemighty Crotona. (Liv. xxxiv. 47.) Shortly after­wards two other colonies were settled, one at Thuriiin Lucania, in b. c. 193, and the other at Hippo-nium or Vibo, in Bruttium, b. c. 192. (Liv. xxxiv.53, xxxv. 9, 40.) The last of these, which underthe name of Vibo Valentia became a flourishing andimportant town, was the only one of these colonieswhich appears to have risen to any considerableprosperity. At a much Inter period (b. c. 123), thetwo colonies sent to Scylacium and Tarentum, underthe names of Colonia Minervia and Keptunia (Veil.Pat. i. 15), were probably designed as an attempt torecruit the sinking population of those places. But all attempts to check the rapid decline of thispart of Italy were obviously unsuccessful. It is pro­bable, or indeed almost certain, that malaria began tomake itself severely felt as soon as the populationdiminished. This is noticed by Strabo in the ea>e ofPosidonia (v. p. 251); and the same tiling musthave occurred along the shores of the Tarentinegulf. Indeed, Strabo himself tells us, that, of thecities of Magna Graecia which had been so famousin ancient times, the only ones that retained anytraces of their Greek civilisation in his day wereRhegium, Tarentum, and Neapolis (vi. p. 253);while the great Achaean cities on the Tarentinegulf had almost entirely disappeared, (lb. p. 262.)The expressions of Cicero are not less forcible, thatMagna Graecia, which had been so flourishing in thedays of Pythagoras, and abounded in great and opu­lent cities, was in his time sunk into utter ruin(nunc quidem deletn est, Cic. de Amic. 4, Tusc. iv.1). Several of the towns which still existed in thedays of Cicero, as Mttapontum, Heraclea, and Locri,gradually fell into utter insignificance, and totallydisappeared, while Tarentum, Crotona, and a fewothers maintained a sickly and feeble existencethrough the middle ages down to the present time. It has been already observed, that the name ofMagna Graecia was never a territorial designation;nor did the cities which composed it ever constitutea political unity. In the earliest times, indeed, thedifference of their origin and race must have effec­tually prevented the formation of any such unionamong them as a whole. But even the Achaeancities appear to have formed no political league orunion among themselves, until after the troublesgrowing out of the expulsion of the Pythagoreans, onwhich occasion they are said to have applied to theAchaeans in Greece for their arbitration, and to havefounded by their advice a temple of Zeus Homorius,where they were to hold councils to deliberate upontheir common affairs and interests. (Pol. ii. 39.) A more comprehensive league was formed inb. c. 393, for mutual protection against the attacksof Dionysus on one side, and the Lucanians on theother (Diod. xiv. 91) ; and the cities which com­posed it must have had some kind of genera) councilor place of meeting. It is probable that it was onthis occasion that the general meetings of thoItalian Greeks, alluded to by Strabo (vi. p. 280),were first instituted : though it is highly improbable