OCR Output Chap. XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP XIV. Hole Demetrius Eucerus overcame Alexander, and yet in a littletime retired out of the country for fear of the Jews. As alsohow Alexander slew many of the Jews, and thereby got clear ofhis troubles. Concerning the death of Demetrius. § 1. So Demetrius came with an army, and took those thatinvited him; and pitched his camp near the city Shechem ; uponwhich Alexander, with his six thousand two hundred mercena­ries, and about twenty thousand Jews, who were of his party,went against Demetrius, who had three thousand horsemen,and forty thousand footmen. Now there were great endeavoursused on both sides, Demetrius, trying to bring off the mercena­ries, that were with Alexander, because they were Greeks, and'Alexander, trying to bring off the Jews that were with Demetri­us. However when neither of them could persuade them soto do, they came to a battle, and Demetrius was the conqueror,in which all Alexander's mercenaries were killed, when theyhad given demonstration of their fidelity and courage. A greatnumber of Demetrius' soldiers were slain also. 2. Now as Alexander fled to the mountains, six thousand ofthe Jews hereupon came together, [from Demetrius] to him,out of pity at the change of his fortune; upon which Demetrius\vas afraid, and retired out of the country; after which the Jewsfought against Alexander, and being beaten, were slain in greatnumbers in the several battles which they had; and when he hadshut up the most powerful of them in the city Bethome, he be­sieged them therein; and when he had taken the city, and gottenthe men into his power, he brought them to Jerusalem, and didone of the most barbarous actions in the world to them: for ashe was feasting with his concubines, in the sight of all the city,he ordered about eight hundred of them to be crucified, and whilethey were living he ordered the throats of their children andwives to be cut before their eyes. This was indeed by way ofrevenge for the injuries they had done him; which punish­ment yet was of an inhuman nature, though we suppose thathe had been ever so much distressed, as indeed he had been,by his wars with them, for he had by their means come to thelast degree of hazard, both of his life and of his kingdom,while they were not satisfied by themselves only to fight againsthim, but introduced foreigners also for the same purpose; nay,at length they reduced him to that degree of necessity, that he wasforced to deliver back to the king of Arabia the land of Moaband Gilead; which he had subdued, and the places that were inthem, that they might not join with them in the war against him, VOL. II. H H 23