OCR Output J182 THRACIA. THBACIA. concert. The same author (xiii. p. 590) points outthe similarity of many Thracian names of places tothose existing in the Trojan territory. Finally, thenames of the places mentioned by Strabo(vii. p. 321)as common to Pieria and the southern Thracians. areevidently Greek (see Mttilcr's Dorians, i. p. 501);and, as we have seen, the name Thrace itself is inall probability a significant Greek word. These considerations appear to us to lead to theconclusion already .stated, namely, that the mythicalThracian?!, as well as those spoken of by Homer, werePelasgiani ; and hence lh.it that race once occupiedthe northern as well as the other shores of the Aegean,until, at a comparatively late period, its continuityWas broken by the irruption of the historical Thra­cians from the north into the country between theStrymon and the Eitxine. The circumstance thatthe Greeks designated these barbarians by the namewhich had been borne by those whom they sup­planted, admits of easy explanation, and historyabounds in instances of a similar kind. But itmay be doubled whether the Thracians had anygeneral designation in their own language: they pro­bably called themselves Edooos, Denseletae, Thyni,Natrae, and so on; but we have no evidence thatthey really were all branches of a common stock.Under these circumstances, it was inevitable thatthe Greeks should bestow upon them the name ofthe earlier possessors of the country; and thoseThracians who were brought in contact with themore civilised race would probably adopt it. (Onthe foregoing question, see Niebuhr, Lect. on Am:II'tsL i pp. 142, 212; Led. on Ethnug. and (]eog.i. ]). 287 ; Wachsmuth, Hist. Ant. i. p. 44, seqq.) Respecting the historical Thracians we have tole­rably lull information, but not of that kind which willenable us to arrive at any very definite conclusions asto their ethnological relations. That they belongedto an extensively diffused race, whose early abodeswere in the far northern regions, may be regardedas sufficiently proved by the concurrent testimonyof the ancient writers. Herodotus, in a well-knownpassage (v. y), says that the Thracian nation is thegreatest in the world, after the Indians, and that itssubdivisions, of which the Getae are one, have manynames, according to the countries which they severallyoccupy. Strata too (vii. p. 2'J5) states that theGetae and the Mysi were Thracians (as to the Mysi,see also i. p. 6). who extended north of the Danube(vii. p. 2%). In confirmation of his assertion thatthe Getae were ethnologicaliy akin to the Thracians,he adduces the identity of their language (vii. p.303). He adds (vii. p. 305) that the Daci alsospoke this language. From Ins remark (vii. p. 315)about the lapodes, it would seem that he regardedthe lllvrians also as nearly allied to, if not actuallya branch of, the Thracians. In another passage (x.p. 471) he says that the Phrygians were colonists ofthe Thracians ; to which race also the Saraparae, anation still farther towards the wist, north of Armenia,were reported to belong (xi. p. 531). "The liithyni,previously called Mysi, were so named, as is admittedby most authorities, from the Thracian liithyni andThyni, who emigrated to that country (i. e. AsiaMinor ; cf. Herod, vii. 75). And I conjecture thattl»' Bebryces, who settled in Hysia before the liithyniand Mysi, were also Thracians. The Mysians them­selves are said to be colonists of those Thracians whoare now called Mysi. As the Mariandvui are in allrespects like the liithyni, they too are probablyThracians." (Stmb. xii. pp. 541, 542.) Justin li couples the Thracians with the IUyraraind Druu(xi. 1). In the west and south-wot it n iapoa*to define the Thracian boundary: wt Lite sac Efi*Mela describes the whole of the Chalndic yeamxas part of Thrace (cf. Thucyd. ii. 79); sad testsno doubt that they extended as tar wuth a* Oirasa,though mixed up witJi Macedonians, «to «w tfcpreponderating race in that quarter. Is UtetoBthe intrusive and undoubtedly distinct nos rtslwere mingled with the Thimcuns nesr tbt Cent*were sometimes confounded with then. TbuFsm(iii. 4) calLs the Soutdstti the most uvtfisfslfcThracians. Of the language of the ThracitM tcaroSr Itrace exists. They were too Urban** to ss» ■literary or artistic memorials, so tint the ycaaiguides of the ethnologist are wanting. Stab (4p. 819) states that bria, which occurs ■ ut S>initiation of several names of Thrscua ura, dei­fied "city" or u town." Tim and s fee paffnames constitute all that remain* uf their bccss> The following is the account wluch 1gives of the customs of the Thrsciao*their children into foreign slavery. Tat*unmarried enjoy perfect freedom in the* icourse with men; but after marrap tarf istrictly guarded. The men pay large amd Ifor their wives to the parents of the latter. 'Is atattooed is considered an indispensable asrxsfsjBbirth. (Cf. Strab. vii. p. 315.) IdleDBssibono arable; the cultivator of the soil is reran***)the meanest uf men; to live by war sod f»a^a*is most noble. The only pods they rAres, Dionysus, and Artemis. But ihor kissdiffer in this respect from their sabjecb; f* a«worship Hermes especially, and hwear by fcasaa,from whom they say that they are daaof"1When a wealthy man dies, his corpse Kb a*for three days: his friends then make a gn* aa\at which, after bewailing the departed, tbet iUflavvictims of every kind: the body is tbeabsnsile>ing sometimes been previously bornt. Afraised above the grave, upon which alMeiljare celebrated (v. 6—8; cf. Xea UriL is. if ftBesides these customs, which were caaaas »•the Thracians, Herodotus mentions some ■asfcafpeculiar to certain tribes; as, for instanos,is* wiaprevailed among the people to the oorih of U»tonians. "Among them, each man has rnaiy«a*When any man dies, a great contest stub ■aajhis widows on the question ss U> whira d aalwas most beloved by their husband; sb! ■ ■»their relations take a very sctrre part ■whohc favour the point is decided, recenw tat«•>gratulations of botli men and toomu, sal a esaslain upon her husband's pave by her MB* sawrelation. The other widows regard >*•*■•**extremely unfortunate, for they am isoa*****1disgraced." {Ib. 5.) Heruiotn benspeak of polygamy as confined tosceranThracians; but 5>trabo (vii. p. 297)rtjse*custom as general among them. In a navspapassage, C.isaubon qaotss from Heracsnaato the effect that Thracians often hid »thirty wives, whom Ussy sasjftsssjpractice still common in many euios w"Xenophon furnishes us wiih an uJgtfrsn*" ™Thracian custom of puahasing aim. H**"that at his first interview with Seutr*s,UwIprince proposed to give his daugaU* ra «to Xenophon; and if the Greek lens* * »