OCR Output T H E H I S T O R Y BOOK walls, the town was filled with the enemy, and a fight^^1^ commenced in every quarter. After great flaughterY.R. 359. had been made, the ardour of the combatants atB.C. 393. length began to abate, and the dictator, proclaimingorders by the heralds, that no injury fhould be doneto the unarmed, put an end to the effufion ofblood. The townfmen then began to lay down theirarms and furrender, and the foldiers,with permifiionof the dictator, difperfed in fearch of booty. Whenthe fpoil was collected before his eyes, far exceedingboth in quantity and in the value of the effects, all hiscalculations and hopes, the dictator is faid to haveraifed his hands towards heaven, and prayed, "that"if any gods or men looked on his fuccefs and that"of the Roman people as exceffive, fuch jea-"loufy might be appeafed by fome calamity pecu-"liar to himfelf alone, rather than by the flighteft"detriment to the Roman people." It is recorded,that as he turned himfelf about, during this addrefsto the gods, he ftumbled and fell; and this was con-fidered afterwards, by fuch as judged of the matter bythe events which followed, to be an omen portendingCamillus's own condemnation, and the difafter ofthe city of Rome being taken, which happened afew years after. The lubduing of the enemy, andthe plundering of this very opulent city, employedthat whole day. XXII. NEXT day the dictator fold the inhabitantsof free condition by auction: the money arifing fromthe fale was all that was applied to the ufe of thepublic, and even that was relented by the commons.As to what fpoil they brought home with them, theydid not think themfelves under any obligation, eitherto the general, who, with defign to procure theircountenance to his own parfimony, had referred tothe fenate, a bufinefs which properly belonged to hisown jurifdiction, or to the fenate either, but to theLicinian family, of which the fon had laid the affairbefore the fenate, and the father ,firft propofed the13 * popular