OCR Output 222 LIVY. ceedings, kept Etruria in obedience; though it wasalmost intirely devoted to Mago, and to the hope ofobtaining, by his means, a change of government. Theinquisitions, directed by the senate, he executed withthe utmost impartiality; and many of the Tuscan no­bles, who had either gone themselves, or sent deputiesto Mago, about the revolt of their states, stood trial,and were found guilty. Others, from a consciousnessof guilt, went into voluntary exile; and by thus with­drawing, though condemned in their absence, couldsuffer only in a confiscation of their effects. 37. While the consuls were thus employed in diffe­rent parts, the censors at Rome (Marcus Livius andCains Claudius) called over the list of the senate.Quintus Fabius Maximus was again chosen principal;seven were disgraced; not one, however, of those whohad sat in the curule chair. The orders for repairingpublic buildings were enforced with the greatest strict­ness. A road was contracted for, to be made from theox market to the temple of Venus, with public seats;and a temple to be built for the Great Mother on thePalatine hill. A new tax, from the sale of salt, wasestablished. This article had been sold at the sixthpart of an ass, both at Rome and in all parts of Italy;and it was now directed to be supplied at the same rateat Rome, at a higher in the country towns and mar­kets, and at various prices in different places. Peoplewere firmly persuaded that Livius had contrived thistax in resentment, and on account of a sentence hav­ing been formerly passed on him, which he had consi­dered as unjust; and that, in fixing the price of salt,the greatest burden had been laid on those tribes bywhose influence he had been condemned: hence thesurname of Salinator was given to him. The lustrumwas closed later than usual; because the censors sentpersons through all the provinces to bring them a re­turn of the number of Roman citizens in each of thearmies. Including these, there were rated in the sur­vey two hundred and fourteen thousand men. CaiusClaudius Nero had the honor of closing the lustrum.