OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. $$ to them, bat, as he was wont, he stood and prayed to. God inthe sight of them all: but the princes having met with the oocasion they so earnestly sought to find against Daniel, came pre­sently to the king, and accused him, that Daniel was the onlyperson'that transgressed the decree, while not one of the restdurst pray to their gods. This discovery they made, not be­cause of his impiety, but because they had watched him, and ob­served him out of envy; for supposing that Darius did thus outof a greater kindness to him than they expected, and that he wasready to grant him pardon for this contempt of his injunctions,and envying this very pardon to Daniel, they did not becomemore favourable to him, but desired he might be cast into theden of lions according to the law. .So Darius, hoping that Godwould deliver him, and that he would undergo nothing that wasterrible by the wild beasts, bid him bear this accident 'cheerful­ly: And when he was cast into the den, Jie put his seal to thestone that lay upon the mouth of the den, and went iiis way; buthe passed all the night without food, and without sleep, being ingreat distress for Daniel. But when it was day, he got up, andcame to the den, and found the seal entire, which he had left thestone sealed withal; he also opened the seal, and cried out, andcalled to Daniel, and asked him, If he were alive? And as soonas he heard the king's voice, and said that he had suffered noharm, the king gave order that he should be drawn up out of thoden. Now when his enemies saw that Daniel had suffered no­thing which was terrible, they would not own that he was pre­served by God, and by his providence; but they said, that thelions had been filled full with food, and on that account it was,»s they supposed, that the lions would not touch Daniel, norcome to him; and" this they alleged to the king: But the king,out of an abhorrence of their wickedness, gave order, that theyshould throw in a great deal of flesh to the lions; and when theyhad nlled themselves, he gave farther order that Daniel's ene­mies should be cast into the den, that he might learn whetherthe lions, now they were full, would touch them or not. Andit appeared plain to Darius, after the princes had been cast tothe wild beasts, that it was God who preserved Daniel, * for thelions spared none of them, but tore them all to pieces, as theyhad been very hungry, and wanted food. I suppose therefore * It is no way improbable that Daniel's enemies might suggest this reason to theking, why the lions did not meddle with him, and that they suspected the king's kind­ness to Daniel had procured these lions to be so filled beforehand, and that thenceH was that be encouraged Daniel to submit to this experiment, in hopes of comingoff safe; and that this was the true reason of makhig so terrible an experiment up­on those his" enemies, and all their t'iuuilies, Dan. Ti. 21.' though our other copiwdo not directly take notice of it.