OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. some of the neighbouring gardens were pillaged; andBelisarius, after chastising the offenders, embraced theslight occasion, but the decisive moment, of inculcatingthe maxims of justice, moderation, and genuine policy.—4t When I first accepted the commission of subduingAfrica, I depended much less (said the general) on thenumbers, or even the bravery, of my troops, than upon'the friendly disposition of the natives, and their immortalhatred to the Vandals. You alone can deprive me ofthis hope: if you continue to extort by rapine whatmight be purchased for a little money, such acts of vio­lence will reconcile these implacable enemies, and unitethem in a just and holy league against the invaders oftheir country." These exhortations were enforced by arigid discipline, of which the soldiers themselves soonfelt and praised the salutary effects. The inhabitants,instead of deserting their houses, or hiding their corn,supplied the Romans with a fair and liberal market: thecivil officers of the province continued to exercise theirfunctions in the name of Justinian; and the clergy, frommotives of conscience and interest, assiduously labouredto promote the cause of a Catholic emperor. The smalltown of Sullecte,r one day's journey from the camp, hadthe honour of being foremost to open her gates, and toresume her ancient allegiance: the larger cities of Leptisand Adrumetum imitated the example of loyalty as soonas Belisarius appeared; and he advanced without opposi*tion as far as Grasse, a palace of the Vandal kings, at thedistance of fifty miles from Carthage. The weary Ro­mans indulged themselves in the refreshment of shadygroves, cool fountains, and delicious fruits; and^the pre­ference which Procopius allows to these gardens over anythat he had seen, either in the east or west, may be as*cribed either to the taste or the fatigue of the historian. 'Sollecteis perhaps the Turra Harmihalis, an old building, now as large as thetower of London. The march of Belisarius lo Leptis, Adrumetum, &c' is illustratedby the campaign of Caesar, (Hirtius de Bello Africano, with the Analyse of Gni-ehardt,) and Shaw's Travels, (p. 105—113.)in the same country.