OCR Output CHAP. LII. 529 from the extremity of Africa, these successful rivals ex­tinguished in Egypt and Syria, both the spiritual andtemporal authority of the Abbassides; and the monarchof the Nile insulted the humble pontiff on the banks ofthe Tigris. Enterprises In the declining age of the caliphs, in theGreeL, century which elapsed after the war of Theophi-A.D.960. \us an(j Motassem, the hostile transactions of thetwo nations were confined to some inroads by sea andland, the fruits of their close vicinity and indelible ha­tred. But when the eastern world was convulsed andbroken, the Greeks were roused from their lethargy bythe hopes of conquest and revenge. The Byzantine em­pire, since the accession of the Basilian race, had reposedin peace and dignity; and they'might encounter withtheir entire strength the front of some petty emir, whoserear was assaulted and threatened by his national foesof the Mahometan faith. The lofty titles of the morningstar, and the death of the Saracens,' were applied in thepublic acclamations to Nicephorus Phocas, a prince asrenowned in the camp as he was unpopular in the city.Reduction In the subordinate station of great domestic, orof Creus. general of the east, he reduced the island of Crete,and extirpated the nest of pirates who had so long defied,with impunity, the majesty of the empire." His militarygenius was displayed in the conduct and success of theenterprise, which had so often failed with loss and dis­honour. The Saracens were confounded by the landingof his troops on safe and level bridges, which he castfrom the vessels to the shore. Seven months were con­sumed in the siege of CJandia; the despair of the native 'Liutprand, whose choleric temper was imbittcred by his uneasy situation, sug­gests the names of reproach and contempt more applicable to Nicephorus than thevain titles of the Greeks, Ecce venit stella matutina, surgit Eous, reverberat obtutdsolis radios, pallida Saracenorum mors, Nicephorus /uilov. 11 Notwithstanding tho insinuations of Zonaras, x4i n /un, &c, (torn. 2. lib. 16. & 197.) it is an undoubted fact, that Crete was completely and finally subdued byicephorus Phocas. (Pagi, Critica, torn. 3. p. 873—875. Meursius, Creta, lib. 3.c. 7.torn.3. p. 464,465.) VOL. VI. 2 M