OCR Output Soo THE DECLINE ANU FALL bic war. September. age, their own ancestors, already seated in the Dacian provinces,,had received the instructions of Zamolxis, and checked the victoriousarms of Sesostris and Darius z*.The Aleman- While the vigorous and moderate conduct of Aurelian restoredthe Illyrian frontier, the nation of the Alemanni 1S violated theconditions of peace, which either Gallienus had purchased, orClaudius had imposed, and inflamed by their impatient youth',suddenly flew to arms. Forty thousand horse appeared: in thefield *6, and the numbers of the infantry doubled those of the ca*,valry 11. The first objects of their avarice were a few cities of theRhætian frontier; but their hopes soon rising with success, therapid march of the Alemanni traced a line of devastation from theDanube to the Po lS;A. D. 270. The emperor was almost at the fame time informed of the irrupttion, and of the retreat, of the barbarians. Collecting an activebody of troops, he marched with silence and celerity along the■fleirts of the Hercynian forest:; and the Alemanni, laden with thespoils of Italy, arrived at the Danube, without suspecting, that onthe opposite bank, and in an advantageous post, a Roman army layconcealed and prepared to intercept their return. Aurelian indulgedthe fatal security of the barbarians, and permitted about halftheir forces to pass the river without precaution. Their situationand astonishment gave him an easy victory; his skilful conduct im­proved the advantage. Disposing the legions in a semicircular form,he advanced the two horns of the crescent across the Danube,and wheeling them on a sudden towards the center, inclosed therear of the German host. The dismayed barbarians, on whatsoeverside they cast their eyes, beheld with despair, a wasted country, adeep and rapid stream, a victorious and implacable enemy. Reduced to this distressed condition, the Alemanni, no longerdisdained to sue for peace. Aurelian received their ambassadors atthe head of his camp, and with every circumstance of martial pomp that