OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL emperor might have asserted his claim, and the prudent Atticus p-e-vented, by a frank confession, the officiousnefs of informers. Butthe equitable Nerva, who then filled the throne, refused to acceptany part of it; and commanded him to use, without scruple, thepresent of fortune. The cautious Athenian still insisted, that thetreasure was too considerable for a subject, and that he knew nothow to use it. Abuse it, then, replied the monarch, with a good-natured peevishness; for it is your own 6?. Many will be ofopinion, that Atticus literally obeyed the emperor's last instructions;since he expended the greatest part of his fortune, which was muchincreased by an advantageous marriage, in the service of thePublic. He had obtained for his son Herod, the prefecture of thefree cities of Asia; and the young magistrate, observing that thetown of Troas was indifferently supplied with water, obtained fromthe munificence of Hadrian, three hundred myriads of drachms(about a hundred thousand pounds) for the construction of a newaqueduct. But in the execution of the work the charge amountedto more than double the estimate, and the officers of the revenuebegan to murmur, till the generous Atticus silenced their com­plaints, by requesting that he might be permitted to take uponhimself the whole additional expence ". • The ablest preceptors of Greece and Asia had been invited byliberal rewards to direct the education of young Herod. Their pupilsoon became a celebrated orator in the useless rhetoric of that age,which, confining itself to the schools, disdained to visit either theForum or the Senate. He was honoured with the consulship atRome; but the greatest part of his life was spent in a philosophicretirement at Athens, and his adjacent villas; perpetually surroundedby sophists, who acknowledged, without reluctance, the superiorityof a rich and generous rival e">. The monuments of his geniushave perished; some remains still preserve the fame of his taste andmunificence: modern travellers have measured the ruins of the stadium