OCR Output ROMA. 727 IiOMA. 106), wt should infer from these words that the» alrooid to wu not on the Palatine, but onv other hill Plutarch, indeed, also alludes to> »*» tradition (Hon. S), and describes Romulusbiidaie this Roma Quadrata and afterwards en-;.tf is. We also find some obscure hints to thes- forpoas in Latin authors. ThusSolinus: "Namiffniiat Varro, auctor diligentissimus, Romamits bnmlus, Marte genitus et Khea Silvia, velrnrullj, llarte et Ilia, dictaque eat primumm jnsdrsta, qnod ad aequilibrium foret posita.isapit s aha, quae est in area Apollinis, et adimlium scalarum Caci habet tenninum, ubiJiiiii fait Faustuli" (i. 2). Now wc must noti the whole of this account to be Varro's, asfar im. (Dt Maris, ifc p. 18, seq., Handb.OS.) All that belongs to Varro seems to beu (rota a passage still extant respecting the•tare of Komulos (£,. L. v. § 144, Miill.), andwords after "Tel ut nonnulli," &c. belong tor»« inaself. Varro, therefore, is not, as Becker■v • witness to Rome having been called * Tbe fullowing passage in Festus, how-luuiotlv alludes to another sense of Roma-iu. namely, as a certain hallowed placea envy dry built with Etruscan rites possessed,» ebich were deposited such things as were*ml of good omen in founding a city, andi m described by Ovid (Fiwri, iv. 821; cf. Aa.ll): "Quadrata Roma in Palatio ante«n Apallinu dicitnr, ubi re posits sunt quae - xoi aiuui* gratia in urbe cundenda adhiberi,m.> muniios est initio in speciem quadratam.'n rjmia* meminit, cum ait: * et quis estfctas regnare quadratae'" (p. 258, MUI1.).»v» bee described was, in fact, the mtuidut 'U < mlrmn city. Tlie words of Sol in us, thoughr» (want of the exact position of the places - !» mtiuos, seem to denote too large an areanwriU with the description of Festus. In •v-il-ii of tbe latter, however, Becker {Handb.i" I sUaces a fragment of the Capitoline plan■A rat. xvi), with the imperfect inscriptionaro (ana Apollinis), and, on the space besider*aef a square elevation with steps at two oflet This, he observes, exactly answers to theSffi* si Fevtna, being a 14 locus saxo munitus■a* quadratam;" ami the area Apollinis was•I' iwUn his temple. That the whole of theoit, however, was also called quadrata,sot only from a passage of Dionysius1 'J«l. where be speaks of the temple of Vesta«-'-jde of tbe Borne called Quad rati (6Vi T^tw)srn saXou^frnt 'Pwuijr, (jr^'uiur• r, itrit icrtv. ii. 65), but also from thefragment of Knnius. quoted by Festus in•~ff .last cited. It is without sense as it*. 414 Mailer's emendation appears certain : — & 1« le tperat Romae regnare quadratae," : • aeaning is inapplicable to a mere mundui,<** be iv/ernri to the entire city.*» </aW Palatime ritg.— It was required that^ baut, like Rome, with Etruscan rites,>'juM be at least three gates and threetamely, to Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva • *i At. I 42S); and we learn from Pliny1 'tut the city of Romulus had, in fact, three■»* galea. In tbe time of Varro, three gates>-' u burnt besides those of the Servian walls, A these can be referred with certainty to the Palatine city. "Praeterea intra mnros videoportas dici. In palatio Mucionis, a mugitu, quodea pecus in bucita circum antiquum oppidum ex-igebant Alteram Romanulam ab Roma dictam,quae habet gradus in Nova Via ad Volupiae sacellum.Tertia est Janualis dicta abJano; et ideo ibi positumJani signum; et jus institutum a Pompilio, utscribit in Annalibus Piso, ut sit aperta semper, nisiquom bellum sit nusquam." (L.L. v. §§ 164, 165,Miill.) The gate here called Mucio by Varro is thesame as that called Mugio by other writers, by anordinary interchange of c and g, as in Caius forGaius, Cermalns for Germalus, &c. Thus Varro him­self, as cited hy Nonius (xii. 51. p. 531, M.) is madeto call it Mugio. In Paulus Diaconus (p. 144, MUU.)we find the adjective form Mugionia, erroneouslyformed, however, from Mugius, tho name of a man;and lastly, the form Mugonia in Solinus (i. 24). Tbe most important passage for determining thesituation of this gate is Livy's description (i. 12) ofthe battle between the Sabines and Romans. Theformer occupy the Capitoline hill, the latter are ar­rayed in the valley beneath. The Romans mountto the attack, but are repulsed and driven backtowards the " old gate" ("adveterem portam") of thePalatium. Romulus, who is stationed on the highground near it (the summit of the Velia), vows toerect on this spot a temple to Jupiter, under thename of "Stator," if he arrest the flight of theRomans. At this time the Sabines had driven backthe Romans to the extremity of what was after­wards the forum, and their leader Melius Curtiushad even penetrated nearly to the gate of the Pala­tium. The Romans, however, rally; the Sabinesare repulsed, and the combat is renewed in thevalley between the two hills. Dionysius confirmsthe site of the gate by describing it as leading tothe Palatium from the Summa Sacra Via; whichstreet, as will be seen when we come to describe thetopography of the later city, crossed the ridge ofthe Velia at this spot ('PuiuiXos uiy 'OoeWip Aif(Itphy lipwraro) wapa rats JcoAovittVals MuKttivttrtwuAair, a! tpipovmy «ls to XlaXdriof <k Tt)s UpasiSoii, ii. 50). Tbe spot is farther identified by agraphic passage in Ovid, where the citizen whoserves as Cicerone to his book conducts it from thefora of the Caesars along the Sacra Via, and, havingcrossed the eastern extremity of the Forum Ro-monum, arrives at the temple of Vesta; then pro­ceeding onwards up the Sacra Via, first points outthe former residence of Numa, and then, turning totie right, indicates the gate of the palace: — "Psruit et ducens, ' Haec sunt fora Caesaris, inquit;Haec est a sncris quae via nomen habetHie locus est Vestoe, qui Pallada servat et ignem; Hie fuit antiqui regia parva Numae.'Inde petens dextram,' Porta est, ait, ista Palatf:Hie Stator; hoc primum condtta Roma locoest'" (Trist. iii. 1. 27.) The site of the temple of Jupiter Stator here givenis confirmed by other writers. Thus it is describedby Livy (i. 41) as near the palace of TarquiniusPriscus, from tho windows of which, overhanging•the Nova Via, Tanaquil addressed the people. Now,as will be shown in its proper place, the Nova Viaran for some distance parallel with the Sacra Via,and between it and the Palatine, and, at its highestpoint near this gate, was culled "Summa," like theSacra Via. Thus Solinus (i. 24): "TarquiniusPriscus ad Mugoniam Portam supra Suminam - .