OCR Output AN. 1532.] 87 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them by twenties and by tens. And let therebe one commander over each number, to benominated from the number of those overwhom they are rulers; but such as the wholemultitude have tried and approve* of, as be­ing good and righteous men; and let theserulers decide the controversies they have onewith another; if any great cause arise, letthem bring the cognizances of it before therulers of a higher dignity; and if any greatdifficulty arise, that is too hard for even theirdetermination, let them send it to thee. Bythese means two advantages will be gained;that the Hebrews will have justice donethem, and thou wilt be able to attend con­stantly on God, and procure him to be morefavourable to the people. This was the admonition of Raguel, whichMoses received very kindly, and acted accor­ding to his suggestion: nor did he conceal theinvention of this method, nor pretend to ithimself, but informed the multitude who itwas that invented it; nay, he has named Ra­guel in the books he wrote, as the personwho invented the ordering of the people, asthinking it right to give a true testimony toworthy persons, although he might have ob­tained reputation by ascribing to himself theinvention of other men; whence we may learnthe virtuous disposition of Moses; but of thatdisposition we shall have occasion to speak inother places. CHAP. V. OF MOSES S ASCENT TO MOUNT SINAI; AND OF THE DIVINELAWS WHICH HE RECEIVED FROM GOD, AND DELIVEREDTO THl HEBREWS. N OW Moses called the multitude together,and told them that he was going unto mount Sinai, to converse with God, to receiveand to bring back with him a certain oracle.But he enjoined them to pitch their tents nearthe mountain: and prefer the habitation thatwas nearest to God, before one more remote.When he had said this, he ascended up tomount Sinai, which is the highest of all themountains,f that are in that country, and isnot only very difficult to be ascended by menon account of its vast altitude, but becauseof the sharpness of its precipices. Nay, in­deed, it cannot be looked at without pain tothe eyes; and besides this, it was terrible andinaccessible on account of a general rumourthat God dwelt there. But the Hebrews re­moved the tents, as Moses had bidden them,and took possession of the lowest parts of themountain; and were elevated in their minds,in expectation that Moses would return withpromises of the good things he had proposedto them. So they feasted, and waited fortheir conductor, and kept themselves purefoT three days, as he had before ordered themto do. And they prayed to God, that he wouldfavourably receive Moses in his conversingwith him, and bestow some such gifts uponthem by which they might live well. Theyalso lived more plentifully as to their diet;and put on their wives and children moreornamental clothing than they usually wore.Two days passed in this way of feasting;but on the thirdJ day, before sun-rise, a cloudspread itself over the whole camp of the He­brews; such an one as none had before seen,and encompassed the place where they hadpitched their tents. And while all the restof the air was clear, there came strong windsthat raised up large showers of rain, whichbecame a mighty tempest. There was alsosuch lightningjl as was terrible to those that * This manner of electing the judges and officers of theIsraelites by the testimonies and suffrages of the people,before they were ordained by God or Moses, deserves tobe carefully noted, because it was the pattern of the likemanner of the choice and ordination of bishops, presby­ters, and deacons, in the Christian church. See Constitut.Apost. VIII. 4, 16, 18. t Since this mountain Sinai is here said to be the high­est of all the mountains in that country, it must be thatnow called St. Catharine's, which is one third higher thanthat within a mile of it now called Sinai, as MonsieurThevenot informs as, Travels, Part I. chap, xxviii. page168, 169. The other name of it, Horeb, is never used by-Tosephus, and perhaps was its name among the Egyptiansonly, whence the Iraelites were lately come, as Sinaiwas its name among the Arabians. Oanaanites, and other voL. I. No. 8. nations. Accordingly, when 1 Kings, ix. 8, the Scripturesays that Elijah came to Horeb, the mount of God, Jose-phus justly says, Anliq. VIII. 13, that he came to themountain called Sinai: and Jerome, here cited by Dr.Hudson, says, that he took this mountain to have twonames, Sinai and Choreb. De Nomin. Heb. j age 427,(Edit. Benedict.) X Exod. xix. 16. II That fire and lightning should attend the presence ofGod is a notion so frequent in the most ancient and Orien­tal theology, that it might possibly give occasion to theworship of fire among the Chaldeans and Persians; to themagi, among the Cappadocians, called Purrethi, whichStrabo mentions, and to the vestal fires among the Greeksand Romans, as well as the ancient Britons.