OCR Output IDUNUM. 15 IERNE. jnK usque ad Petram et Ailam (haec est posscssioEsau) in specubus habitatiunculas habet; et propternimios calores solis, quia meridian:! provincia est,subterraiieis tuguriis utitur." {Comment, in Obad.tt. 5. 6.) And again, writing of the same country,he says that south of Tekoa " ultra nnllus est viculus,ne agrestes quidem casae et funiorum similes, quasAfri appellant mapalia. Tanta est cremi vastitas,quae u»que ad Mare Rubrum Peraarumquc et Aethio-pum atque Indorum terminos dilatatur. Et quiakumi ariiio atque arenoso nihil omnino frugum gig-nitur, cuncta sunt plena pastoribus, ut sterilitatcmterrae compenset pecorum mullitudiue." {Prolog.nJAmamm.) [G. W.] IDUXTJM, a town in the extreme south of Pan-noiiia (Piol. ii. 14. § 3), which, from inscriptionsfound on the spot, is identified with the modernJudtuburg. [L. S.] JEBUS. JEBUSI'TES. [Jerusalem.] JEHOSHAPHAT, VALLEY OF. [Jeru­salem.] 1EXA, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.§ 2) as an estuary between the outlets of the riversAbraTannus and Deva to the south of the promon­tory of the Novantae (= Wigton Bay). [R. G. L.] 1EBABR1GA. [Arabkica.] JERICHO (Upix<i, 'I'P'Xow, Strab.), a stronglyfortified city of the Canaanites, miraculously takenby Joshua, who utterly destroyed it, and prohibitedit from being rebuilt under pain of an anathema(■loth. ii. vi.), which was braved and incurred byHiel of Bethel, five centuries afterwards, in the reignof Ahab, king of Israel. (1 Kings, xvi. 34.) Itthen became a school of the prophets. (2 Kings, ii.4, 5.) It lay in the border of Benjamin, to whichtribe it was assigned (Joth. xviii. 12, 21), but wasnot far from the southern border* of Ephraim (xvi.1). It is mentioned in the New Testament in con-wction with the wealthy revenue-farmer Zacchaeus,»bo resided there, and probably farmed the govern­ment dues of its rich and well cultivated plain.Josephus describes it as well situated, and fruitfulin palms and balsam. (Ant. iv. 8. § 1, B. J. i. 6.§ 6.) He places the city 60 stadia from the Jor­dan, 150 from Jerusalem (B. J. iv. 8. § 3), theintervening country being a rocky desert. He ac­counts for the narrow limits of the tribe of Benjaminby the fact that Jericho was included in that tribe,the fertility of which far surpassed the richest soilin other parts of Palestine (§§ 21, 22). Its plainvbs 70 stadia long by 20 wide, irrigated by the watersof tbe fountain of Elisha, which possessed almostmiraculous properties. (Ant. iv. 8. §§ 2, 3.) It wasone of tbe eleven toparchies of Judaea. (B. J. iii. 2.)Its palm grove was granted by Antony to Cleopatra(i. 18. | 5). and the subsequent possession of thisenvied district by Herod the Great, who first farmedthe revenues for Cleopatra, and then redeemed tbem(Ant. xiv. 4. §§ 1, 2), probably gave occasion tothe proverbial use of his name in Horace (Ep. ii. 2.184): — "cessare et ludere et ungi,Praeferat Herodis palmetis pinguibus." It is mentioned by Strabo (xvi. p. 763) and Pliny(v. 14) in connection with its palm-trees and foun­tains. The former also alludes to the palace andin garden of balsam, the cultivation and collectingof which is more fully described by Pliny (xii. 25).The palace was built by Herod the Great, as hisown residence, and there it was that he died; having first confined in the hippodrome the mostillustrious men of the country, with the intentionthat they should be massacred after his death, thatthere might be a general mourning throughoutthe country on that occurrence. (B. J. i. 33. § 6.)Josepbus further mentions that Jericho was visitedby Vespasian shortly before he quitted the country,where he left the tenth legion (B. J. iv. 8. § 1,9. § 1);but he does not mention its destruction by Titus onaccount of the perfidy of its inhabitants; a fact whichis supplied by Eusebius and St Jerome. They addthat a third city had been built in its stead; but thatthe ruins of both the former were still to be seen.(Onomatt. t. v.) The existing ruins can only bereferred to this latest city, which is frequently men­tioned in the mediaeval pilgrimages. They standon the skirts of the mountain country that shuts inthe valley of the Jordan on the west, about threehours distant from the river. They are very exten­sive, but present nothing of interest. The waters ofthe fountain of Elisha, now 'Ain es-Sultan, wellanswer to the glowing description of Josepbus, andstill fertilise the soil in its immediate neighbourhood.But the palms, balsam, sugar-canes, and roses, forwhich this Paradise was formerly celebrated, haveall disappeared, and the modern Riha consists onlyof the tents of a Bedouin encampment [G. W.] IERNE, is a better form for the ancient name ofIreland than Hibernia, Iberkia, Ivernia, &c,both as being nearer the present Gaelic name Art,and as being the oldest form which occurs. It isthe form found in Aristotle. It is also the formfound in the poem attributed to Orpheus on theArgonautic expedition, which, spurious as it is, maynevertheless be as old as the time of Onomacritus(i. e. the reign of the first Darius): — ■—rfjaoiaiv *Upytffiv iaaov iKtafuu. (Orpheus, 1164, ed. Leipzig, 1764.) Aristotle (de Mundo, c. 3) writes, that in the oceanbeyond the Pillars of Hercules "are two islands,called Britannic, very large, Albion and Ierne, be­yond the Celtae." In Diodorus Siculus (v. 32) theform is Iris; the island Iris being occupied by Britons,who were cannibals. Strabo (ii. p. 107) makesIerne the farthest voyage northwards from Celtica.It was too cold to be other than barely habitable, theparts beyond it being absolutely uninhabited. The'reported distance from Celtica is 500 stadia. Thesame writer attributes cannibalism to the Irish;adding, however, that his authority, which was pro­bably the Bame as that of Diodorus, was insufficientThe form in Pomponius Mela is Iverna. In Ivernathe luxuriance of the herbage is so great as to causethe cattle who feed on it to burst, nnless occasionallytaken off. Pliny's form is Hybernia (iv. 30). So-linus, whose form is Hibernia, repeats the statementof Mela as to the pastnre, and adds that no snakesare found there. Warlike beyond the rest of her sex,the Hibernian mother, on the birth of a male child,places the first morsel of food in bis mouth with thepoint of a sword (c. 22). Avienus, probably fromthe similarity of the name to Upa, writes: — "Ast in duobus in Sacram, sic insulamDixerc prisci, solibus cursus rata estHaec inter undas multa eespitem jacitEamque late gens Hibernorum colit." (Ora ManL 109—113.) Avienus's authorities were Carthaginian. More im-