OCR Output 144 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II. dantly evident, they did not raise him to an office somuch above bis rank, with a view to his particular ho­nour, as to offer an open insult to the consuls. This af­front set Appius and the senate'in a terrible rage; butthe people, who had now acquired more spirit, actedvery differently from what they had done at first. Fordespairing now of any redress from the consuls and thesenate, when they saw any debtor dragged to the tribu­nal, thither they crowded from all quarters. Wheneverthe consul passed sentence, they raised such a noise andclamour that it could not be heard; nor if it had, durstany one attempt to put it in execution. Force now uni­versally prevailed. Insomuch, that when a single debtorhad been seized by a posse of officers in presence of theconsul, danger and fear of servitude shifted sides, andfrom the debtors flew upon the creditors. Add to these intestine calamities, the terror of a warwith the Sabines; for which, when a levy was decreed,not a man would give in his name, whilst Appius was allfury, loudly complaining of the complacency of his col­league, who, by a popular silence, betrayed the interestsof his country, and besides, that he had not done justice,in respect to the debts, had neglected to make the leviesdecreed by the senate. "Yet, that the commonwealth"was by no means abandoned, nor the consular dignity"without force, whilst he alone remained to support his"own authority and the honour of the senate," When the mob, hardened in licentiousness by constantuse, stood about him, he ordered a remarkable ringleaderof the sedition to be seized, who,, after he was in thecustody of the lictors, appealed to the people. The con­sul would not have suffered this appeal to pass, beingwell aware what the people's judgment would be, had benot, though with difficulty, been overpersuaded, ratherby the wise remonstrances and authority of the senate,than compelled by the seditious clamours of the people.The evil grew every day more serious. The multitudeconfmed themselves no longer to mere outcrie? , but whatwas of a much more dangerous tendency, they retired inparties to hold secret committees. At length, the con­suls quitted their office, bofli hated >)y the people: Ap­pius was, however, much in the good graces of the senate,but Servilius neither of senate nor people.