OCR Output 120 [A.U.C.772. THE ANNALS the conduct of Publius Scipio, who, we are told, didthe same in Sicily, while Rome was still convulsed bythe distractions of the Punic war. Tiberius, as soonas he received advices from Egypt, condemned thisaffectation of foreign manners, but without asperity.Another point appeared to him of greater moment.Arrfong the rules established by Augustus, it was amaxim of state policy, that Egypt should be consider­ed as forbidden ground, which neither the senators,nor the Roman knights, should presume to tread,without the express permission of the prince. Thiswas, no doubt, a wise precaution. It was seen that,whoe v er made himself master of Alexandria, with thestrong holds, which by sea and land were the keys ofthe whole province, might, with a small force, makehead against the power of Rome, and, by blocking upthat plentiful cor n country, reduce all Italy to a fa­mine. Gcrmanicus, without authority, had enteredAlexandria ; and this, to the jealous temper of Tibe­rius, was little short of a state crime. LX. Meanwhile, Germanicus, little suspecting ^hathe had incurred the emperor's displeasure, determinedto sail up the Nile. He set out from Canopus, a citybuilt by the Spartans, in memory of a pilot of thatname, who was buried on the spot, at the time whenMenelaus, on his return from Troy, was driven byadverse winds on the coast of Libya. From Canopus,the next place of note was a mouth of the river dedi­cated to Hercules, who was born, as the inhabitantscontend, in that country. He was, according tothem, the first of the heroic line; and his name, beingmade another term for virtue, was by the voice ofsucceeding ages bestowed on all who emulated theexample of the Egyptian worthy. Germanicus pro­ceeded to the magnificent ruins of the city of Thebes,where still was to be seen, on ancient obelisks, a pom­pous description, in Egyptian characters, of the'wealth and grandeur of the place. From the accountof an elderly priest, who was desired to interpret thehieroglyphics of his country, it appeared that Thebes,at one time, contained within her walls no less thanseven hundred thousand men, capable of bearing arms;