OCR Output 194 TITUS LIVIUS' Book II. hoarded tip. Peace and plenty soon produced dissipa­tion; and now when they had no disturbance abroad,they began to revive their old contentions at borne. The tribunes set the populace in a ferment, by theirfavourite topic, the Agrarian law. They inflamed themagainst the senators in the opposition; and in this, theynot only pointed at the whole body, but at individualsalso. Q. Confidius and T. Genucius, who revived theplea of the Agrarian law, at this time cited T, Meneniusto take his trial. He was charged with the loss of thegarrison at Cremera, when his camp lay but a smalldistance from it. They condemned him, although thefathers had interested themselves, no less for him, thanthey had done for Coriolanus, and the popularity of hisfather Agrippa, not yet totally forgot. The tribunesrestricted his punishment to a fine; for though they hadsentenced him to die, after his condemnation, they onlyfined him in two thousand asses of brass.* This costhim his life: for, it is said, that being unable to bear thedisgrace, and the grief it occasioned, he soon fell a vic­tim to a distemper, brought on him by it. Another senator, Sp. Servilius, was also impeached,immediately on the expiry of his office, in the consul­ship of C. Nantius and Publius Valerius; the tribunesL. Caedicius and T. Statius, having, in the beginning ofthe year, appointed him a day for his trial. He did not,like Menenius, by himself, or the fathers, descend tomake mean supplications to the people; but confidingin his own innocence and personal interest, he boldlyopposed himself to all the attacks of the tribunes. The charge against him, was the action with the Etru­rians at the Janiculum. But, being a man of a daringspirit, he was as intrepid before their tribunal, as heused to be on a day of action, confuting in a bold speech,both tribunes and commons, upbraiding them with thecondemnation and death of Menenius, by the good offi­ces of whose father, the populace were brought back tothe city, and enjoyed these laws and those magistrates,the ministers now of their illiberal prosecutions; andthus by his bold and determined behaviour, outbraved * Fire poundi sterling.