OCR Output 92 LIVY. to Rome, he himself retired to Tarraco. During thesame year the Roman fleet, under Marcus ValeriusLaevinus, proconsul, sailing over from Sicily to Africa,made extensive devastations in the territories of Uticaand Carthage, carrying off plunder from the remotestbounds of the Carthaginian territory, even from underthe very walls of Utica. On their return to Sicilythey were met by a Carthaginian fleet, consisting ofseventy ships of war; seventeen of these they took,and sunk four; the rest were beaten and dispersed.The Romans, victorious by land and sea, returned toLilybaeum, with immense booty of every kind. Thesea being thus cleared of the enemy, abundance ofprovision was brought to Rome. 5. In the beginning of the summer during whichthese transactions passed Publius Sulpicius, procon­sul, and king Attalus, after having wintered at JEginaas mentioned above, united their fleets, consisting oftwenty-three Roman five-banked gallies, and thirty-five belonging to the king, and sailed from thence toLemnos. Philip also, that he might be prepared forevery sort of exertion, whether he should have occa­sion to oppose the enemy on land or sea, came down tothe coast of Demetrias, and appointed a day for hisarmy to assemble at Larissa. On the news of theking's arrival embassies from his allies came to Deme­trias from all sides; for the jEtolians, elated both bytheir alliance with the Romans, and by the approach ofAttalus, were ravaging the neighboring states. Notonly the Acarnanians, Uoeotians, and Euboeans, wereunder violent apprehensions, but the AchKans alsowere kept in terror, as well by the hostilities of the.iEtolians as by Machanidas, tyrant of Lacedaemon,who had pitched his camp at a small distance from theborders of the Argives. All these, representing thedangers both on land and sea with which their severalpossessions were threatened, implored the king's as­sistance. Philip, even from his own kingdom, receivedaccounts that affairs there were not in a state of tran­quillity; that both Scerdilaedus and Plcuratus were in