OCR Output 288 [book viit. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. think they were in motion. But the otherpart up to the roof was plastered over, and,as it were, embroidered with colours andpictures. He built other edifices for plea­sure; as also very long cloisters, and thosesituate in an agreeable part of the palace;and among them a most noble dining-roomfor feastings, and full of such furniture as sofine a room ought to have for the conveniencyof the guests, and where all the vessels weremade of gold. Now it is very hard to reckonthe magnitude, and the variety of the royalapartments; how many rooms there were ofthe largest sort, how many of a bigness infe­rior to those, and how many that were sub­terraneous and, invisible; the curiosity ofthose that enjoyed the fresh air, and thegroves for the most delightful prospect, forthe avoiding the heat and the covering oftheir bodies. In a word, Solomon made thewhole building entirely of white stone, andcedar wood, and gold, and silver. He alsoadorned the roofs and the walls with stonesset in gold, and beautified them in the samemanner as he had beautified the temple ofGod with the like stones. He also madehimself a large throne of ivory,* constructedas a seat of justice, and having six steps to it.On every one of which stood, on each end ofthe step, two lions; two other lions standingabove also, but at the sitting place of the throne, hands came out, and received theking; and when he sat backward, he restedon a half bullock, that looked towards hisback, but still all was fastened together withgold. When Solomon had completed all this inftwenty years' time, because Hiram, king ofTyre, had contributed a great deal of gold,and more silver, to these buildings; as alsocedar wood, and pine wood; he rewardedHiram with rich presents; corn he sent himalso year by year, and wine, and oil; whichwere the principal things he stood in need of;because he inhabited an island, as we havealready said. And besides these, he grantedhim twenty cities of GalileeJ that lay notfar from Tyre; which when Hiram went to,and viewed, and did not like the gift, he sentword to Solomon that he did not want suchcities as they were. And after that timethose cities were called the land of Cabul;which name, if it be interpreted according tothe language of the Phoenicians, denotes whatdoes not please. Moreover the king of TyreIjsent sophisms and enigmatical sayings toSolomon, and desired he would return theirsolutions. Now so sagacious and under­standing was Solomon, that none of theseproblems were too hard for him; but he con­quered them all by his reasonings, and disco­vered their hidden meaning, and brought it * 1 Kings x. 18. t From an. 1052 to 1032 B. C. J It 13 an express injunction which God gives the Israel­ites, that the land wherein the people had a right bydivine lot, and himself a right, as being the sole proprietorthereof, was not to be sold or alienated for ever, Lev. xxv.23. How then could Solomon, without violating this law,pretend to give Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee?Now to this some have replied, that Solomon did not giveHiram a property and perpetual right to those cities, butonly assigned him the possession of them for a time, untilthe debt which he had contracted for the several supplieshe had from him, while he was building the temple, wassatisfied. Others think that upon supposition that thesecities were inhabited by Israelites, Solomon did not giveHiram, (as indeed he could not,) their particular posses­sions, but only his own royalties over them, (which hemight justly do) and all the profits he received from them,which according to the taxes then imposed, 1 Kings xii. 4.were not inconsiderable. But there is no reason for thesefar-fetched solutions, when the Scripture expressly tellsus, that these cities were not in the territories of Israel,nor inhabited at that time by the Israelites, 2 Chron. viii.2* They were indeed some of them conquered by theking of Egypt, who gave them to Solomon as a portionwith his daughter, and others by Solomon himself, who,as Seidell observes (De Jure Nat. et Gen. lib. vi. cap. 16.) had " a right to dispose of those lands which he had con­quered in voluntary war, without the consent of thesenate." And this may be one reason why he gave these,rather than other cities, because these were certainly inhis own power to give, when others perhaps were not.A learned author upon this subject, has given a quitedifferent turn to the sense of the passage. For hisopinion is, that Hiram did not return these cities, becausehe thought them not good enough, but because he wasunwilling to receive so large a remuneration for the fewgood offices he had done Solomon, and was minded ratherthat his favours of this kind should be all gratuitous.He therefore makes the word Cabul, (which is the namethat Hiram gives to the country where these cities stood,)a title of respect, and not of contempt; for he derives itfrom the Hebrew Chebes, which signifies a bond orchain, intimating that these two neighbouring kings hadmutually bound themselves in a bond of friendship,Solomon by giving, and Hiram by returning the citiesnow under consideration. This is very pretty: but it iscarrying the point of generosity in the king of Tyre alittle too high, in my opinion, considering his acceptanceof, if not express stipulation for, such a quantity of cornand oil, in lieu of the timber which he sent Solomon,1 Kings v. 10. 11. Patrick's and Le Clerks Commentaries,and Pool's Annotations. B.I I About an. 1030.