OCR Output 424 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. the boldest and most tractable falconsthey were tamedand educated by the roving inhabitants always on horse­back and in the field. This favourite amusement of ourancestors was introduced by the barbarians into the Ro­man provinces; and the laws of Italy esteem the swordand the hawk as of equal dignity and importance in thehand of a noble Lombard.bDress and So rapid was the influence of climate and example,niamage. ^g Lombards of the fourth generation surveyed with curiosity and affright the portraits of their savageforefathers.0 Their heads were shaven behind, but theshaggy locks hung over their eyes and mouth, and a longbeard, represented the name and character of the nation.Their dress consisted of loose linen garments, after thefashion of the Anglo-Saxons, which were decorated, intheir opinion, with broad stripes of variegated colours.The legs and feet were clothed in long hose, and opensandals; and even in the security of peace a trusty swordwas constantly girt to their side. Yet this strange ap­parel, and horrid aspect, often concealed a gentle andgenerous disposition; and as soon as the rage of battlehad subsided, the captives and subjects were sometimessurprised by the humanity of the victor. The vices ofthe Lombards were the effect of passion, of ignorance,of intoxication; their virtues are the more laudable, asthey were not affected by the hypocrisy of social man­ners, nor imposed by the rigid constraint of laws and edu­cation. I should not be apprehensive of deviating from * Particularly the gerfaut or gyrfalcon, of the size of a small eagle. See the ani­mated description of M. de Buftbn, Hist. Naturelle, tom. 16. p. 239, &c. b Script. Rerum Italicaram, tom. 1. part 2. p. 129. This is the sixteenth law ofthe emperor Lewis the Pious. His father Charlemagne had falconers in his householdas well as huntsmen. (Memoires sur l'Ancienne Chevalerie, par M. de St. Palaye,tom. 3. p. 175.) I observe in the laws of Rotharis a more early mention of the ai t ofhawking, (no. 322.) and in Gaul, in the fifth century, it is celebrated by Sidonius Apol-linaris among the talents of Avitus. (202—207.) c The epitaph of Droctulf (Paul, lib. 3. c 19.) may be applied to many of hiscountrymen: Terrihilis visa facies, sed corda benignus'Longaque robusto pectore harhafuit. The portraits of the old Lomhards might still be seen in the palace of Monza, twelvemiles from Milan, which had been founded or restore.: by queen Theudelinda. (lib.4. 22, 23.) See Muratori, tom. 1. dissertaz. 23. p. 500.