OCR Output C. III.] THE ZEALOTS. 89 bringing on of the war, they were the occasions of seditionand famine therein. 4. There were besides these other robbers that came out ofthe country, and came into the city, and joining to them thosethat were worse than themselves, omitted no kind of barbarity;for they did not measure their courage by their rapines andplundcrings only, but proceeded as far as murdering men;and this not in the night-time or privately, or with regard toordinary men, but did it openly in the day-time, and beganwith the most eminent persons in the city: for the first manthey meddled with was Antipas, one of the royal lineage, andthe most potent man in the whole city, insomuch that thepublic treasures were committed to his care: him they tookand confined, as they did in the next place to Levias a personof great note, with Sophas the son of Raguel; both whichwere of royal lineage also. And besides these they did thesame to the principal men of the country. This caused aterrible consternation among the people, and every one con­tented himself with taking care of his own safety, as theywould do if the city had been taken in war. 5. But these were not satisfied with the bonds into whichthey had put the men forementioned; nor did they think itsafe for them to keep them thus in custody long, since theywere men very powerful and had numerous families of theirown that were able to avenge them. Nay, they thought thevery people would, perhaps, be so moved at these unjust pro­ceedings, as to rise in a body against them : it was, therefore,resolved to have them slain. Accordingly, they sent oneJohn, who was the most bloody-minded of them all, to do thatexecution : this man was also called the son of Dorcas^ in thelanguage of our country. Ten more men went along withhim into the prison, with their swords drawn, and so they cutthe throats of those that were in custody there. The grand 1 This name Dorcas in Greek was Tabitha in Hebrew or Syriac, as Acts,ix. 30. Accordingly, some of the manuscripts set it down here Tabetha, orTabcta. Nor can the context in Josephus be made out by supposing thoreading to have been this, the son of Tabitha, which in the language of ourcountry denotes Dorcas [or a doe.] 8*