OCR Output OS 2 SIC1LIA. the islam! in the autumn of n. c. 278. Fhintiaswas at tills time dead, ami Ilicetas had not longbefore been expelled from Syracuse. Pyrrhus there­fore bad no Greek adversaries to contend with, andwas aide to turn all his efforts against the Car­thaginians. His successes were at first rapid anddecisive : he wrested one town after another fromthe dominion of Carthage, took Panormus, whichhud long been the metropolis of their Sicilianpossessions, and had never before fallen into thehands of a Greek invader, and carried by assaultthe strong fortresses of Krctc and Kryx: but he w:isfoiled in an attack on Lilybacum; jcalousifs anddis>en>ions now aro.se between him and his Sicilianallies, and after little more than two years he wasfain to return to Italy (n.c. 276), abandoning allhis projects upon Sicily (L>iod. Exc. llm-tch. XxiL10. pp. 497—499). Tiie departure of Pyrrhus left the Sicilian Greekswithout a leader, but Hieron, who was chusen generalby the Syracusans, Droved himself worthy of theoccasion. Meanwhile a new and formidable enemyhad arisen in the Mainertiues, a band of Campanianmercenaries, who had possessed themselves bytreachery of the important city of Messana, andfrom thence carried their arms over a considerablepart of Sicily, and conquered or plundered many ofits principal towns. Hieron waged war with themfor a considerable period, and at length obtained sodecisive a victory over them, in the immediateneighbourhood of Messana, that the city itself musthave fallen, had it not been saved by the interventionof the Carthaginian general Hannibal. Hieron wasnow raised to the supreme power at Syracuse, andeven assumed the title of king, b. c 270. A fewyean after this we find him joining bis arms withthe Carthaginians, to effect the expulsion of theMamertines, an object which they would doubtlesshave accomplished had not that people appealed tothe protection of Rome. The Roman?, who hadrecently completed the conquest of Italy, gladlyseized the pretext for interfering in the affairs ofSicily, and espoused the cause of the Mamertines.Thus bngan tin* Y'wA Punic War, u. c. 264. It is impossible here to relate in detail the eventsof that long-protracted struggle, during which Sicilybecame for twenty-three years the field of battle be­tween the Romans and Carthaginians. Hieron, whohad found himself at the beginning engaged in ac­tive hostilities with Rome, after sustaining severaldefeats, and losing many of his subject towns, wiselywithdrew from the contest, and concluded in B. c.263 a separate peace with Rome, by which he re­tained possession in full sovereignty of Syracuse andits territory, including the dependent towns of Acme,Belarus, Netam, Megan, and Leootuu, togetherwith Tauromenium (L)iod. xxiii. F.xc. II. p. 502).From tins time to the day of his death Hieron re­mained the faithful ally of the Romans, and retainedthe sovereign power at Syracuse undisturbed. Inthe rest of S.cily all trace of independent action onthe part of the several Greek cities disappears:Agrigentum was indeed the only oue of these citiesin the island which appears to have retained anyconsiderable importance: it was not taken by theRoman consuls till after a long and obstinate siege,B, c. 262, and was severely punished for its pro­tracted resistance, tbe inhabitants being sold as slaves.Agrigentum indeed at a later period fell again intothe hands of the Carthaginians, B.C. 255, but ontbe other hand the Romans made themselves mas­ ters of Panormus, for iCarthaginian dominiorthenceforth occupied band never again fell imasters. For several;the war, the pussesskSicily were couHned t<cupied by Hanvilear Bifortified seaports of Liformer of which defiedmans, as it had previ<The siege, or rathercontinued for nearly teof the Carthaginian IAegates, b. c 241, cochase peace by the surpossessions in Sicily. The whole Uland wjdition of a Romau pr<the territory still gove;but independent so%-erestituted was the first tl(Cic. Verr. ii. 1): itment of a praetor, wRome (Appian, Sic 21Second Punic War (ipronius was at first »to guard against anAfrica; but he was sooin Italy, and for someimportant part in theever, occurred in the215), in consequence o!the grand>on and suawho abandoned theHieron had continuelong reign, and espouHieronymus indeed wsthe Carthaginian parHippocrates and Epiascendency, and Marchaste to Sicily to putwas compelled to fonr214. Rut so vigoroushim that he soon fouithe siege into a block*of B.C. 212 that the cMeanwhile the war hatof Sicily: many citiesfollowed the examplealliance of Carthage,exertions for their au]Syracuse, the war wasginian general Mutinmaster of Agrigentum,fare from thence, and iwhole island. It wasduced to desert the CaAgrigentum into the bconsul Laevinus wascities to submission,final conquest of SicilxxviL 5). From this time theas a Roman province,most respects similar tRut its lot was anythigreat natural fertility,ness in corn, caused it,the utmost importancecumstances seem to ha