OCR Output 394 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. soon by the sword. The revolution, at an end in so far asthe old constitution was recognized by both sides as finallyset aside and the aim and method of the new political de­velopment were clearly settled, had yet up to this time dis­covered nothing but provisional solutions for this problemof the reorganization of the state; neither the Gracchannor the Sullan constitution of the community bore the stampof finality. But the bitterest feature, of this bitter timewas, that even hope and effort failed the clear-seeing patriot.The sun of freedom with all its endless store of blessingswas constantly drawing nearer to its setting, and the twi­light was settling over the Very world that was still sobrilliant. It was no accidental catastrophe which patriotismand genius might have warded off; it was old social evils—at the bottom of all, the ruin of the middle class by theslave proletariate—that brought destruction on the .Romancommonwealth. The most sagacious statesman was in theplight of the physician, to whom it is equally painful toprolong or to abridge the agony of his patient. Beyonddoubt it was the better for the interests of Rome, the morequickly and thoroughly a despot set aside all remnants ofthe ancient free constitution, and invented new forms andexpressions for the moderate measure of human prosperityfor which absolutism leaves room: the intrinsic advantage,which belonged to monarchy under the given circumstancesas compared with any oligarchy, lay mainly in the verycircumstance that such a despotism, energetic in pullingdown and energetic in building up, could never be exer­cised by a collegiate board. But such calm considerationsdo not mould history; it is not reason, it is passion alone,that builds for the future. The Romans had just to waitin order to see how long their commonwealth would continueunable to live and unable to die, and whether it would ul­timately find its master and, so far as might be possible, itsregenerator in a man of mighty gifts, or would collapse inmisery and weakness.Finances of It remains that we should notice the economic and socialthe state, relations of the period before us, so far as we have not already done so. Italian re- The finances of the state were from the commencement of venues. this epoch substantially dependent on the revenue from the provinces. In Italy the land-tax, which had always occurred there merely as an extraordinary impost by the side of the '^