OCR Output B. III. YEAR VI.—BEFORE CHRIST 426. 983 composed of Tolophus the Ophionian, Bofiades the Euryst-hanian and Tisander the Apodotian prevail there in theirsuit for a diversion against Naupactus, because the Athe*nians had invaded their territories. It was about autumnwhen the Lacedaemonians marched away three thousandheavy-armed of their allies; of which number five hundredbelonged to Heraclea, the city so lately founded in Trachi*nia. Eurylochus, a Spartan, was appointed to command inthe expedition, and was accompanied by two other Spartans,Macarius and Menedaeus. The army being drawn intoa body at Delphi, Eurylochus dispatched a herald to the'Ozolian-Locri: His route to Naupactus lay through theirterritory. He was also desirous to detach them from theAthenian alliance. The Amphissensians were the readiestof all the Locri to give their concurrence, as standing inperpetual awe of the hatred bore them by the Phocians.These therefore were the first who sent in hostages, andwho persuaded others to follow their example, from a dreadof this army which was now approaching. Accordingly,the Myonensians, their own borderers, were the first whocomplied ; for their part of Locris is most difficult of access1.These were followed by the Ippensians, and Messapians,and Tritaeensians, and Challaeans, Tolophonians, Hessians,and Oeanthians; and all these gave a personal attendancein the expedition. The Olpeans indeed sent in their hos­tages, but would not attend. The Hyasans refused theirhostages till one of their villages called Polis was seized. When all things were ready, and the hostages placedsecurely at Cytinium of Doris, Eurylochus with his army,taking the route of Locris, advanced against Naupactus.He seized upon Oeneon and Eupolium as he marched forrefusing to concur. When they had entered the territoryof Naupactus, and were joined by the Etolian aid, theywasted the country to the very suburb, of which also, be­cause unfortified, they took possession. Turning thence toMolycrium, a Corinthian colony, but now subject to theAthenians, they reduce it. Vol. I. 3D