OCR Output SECOND VOLUME. %it w hole period receiving , a triple division, into a life under thedominion of Jupiter, which is prior to generation, into a lifeunder the dominion of Neptune, and which is in generation,Pluto, who is characterized according to intellect, with greatpropriety converts ends to beginnings, forming a circle withouta beginning or an end, not only in fouls, but in bodies. Thusfor instance, he eternally evolves the circulations of the stars, themotions of things in generation, and the like. But some erro足neously analyse the name of Pluto into wealth from the earth,through fruits and metals; and of Aides*, into the obscure, dark,and terrible. These are now censured by Socrates, who assignsthe fame meaning to these two names; referring Pluto, as intel足lect, to the tvealth of prudence, and Aides to an intellect whichknows all things. For this god is a sophists, who purifies foulsafter death, and frees them from generation. For Aides, or, thtobscure, is not, as some erroneoufly interpret it, evil; since neitheris death an evil, though Aides appears to some to be full of per足turbation. But every thing intelligible is obscure; and in thisfense Aides is better than every visible nature. The lovers ofbody however, who viciously refer the passions of the animatedpart to themselves, consider death as something terrible; and asthe cause of corruption: but in reality it i9 much better for a manto die, and live in Hades according to nature, than to live withbody contrary to nature, and prevented from energizing intel足lectually. Hence, it is necessary to strip ourselves of the flesti Jwith which we are invested, as Ulysses did of his torn garments,and not, together with the indigence of body, clothe ourselveswith that which resembles the vestment of a mendicant. "For(as the Oracle fays) things divine cannot be obtained by those whoseintellectual eye is direScd to body j but those only can arrive at the * One of Pluto's names. f The reader must be careful to consider the word Sophist in this placein its primary sense, viz. one wise and learned.X i. e. We must purify ourselves from a tendency to body. Vol. III. Y fos.