OCR Output ait. 453.] 413 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. you take notice that every city and everynation that shall disobey any thing containedin this epistle, shall be destroyed by fireand sword. However, let this epistle bepublished through all the country that isunder our obedience; and let all the Jews,by all means, be ready against the day be-forementioned: that they may avenge them­selves upon their enemies." Accordingly the horsemen who carried theepistle proceeded on the ways which theywere to go, with speed. But as for Morde-cai, as soon as he had assumed the royal gar­ment, and the crown of gold, and had put thechain about his neck, he went forth in a pub­lic procession. And when the Jews who werein Shushan, saw him in so great honour withthe king, they thought his good fortune wascommon to themselves also: and joy, and abeam of salvation, encompassed the Jews:both those that were in the cities, and thosethat were in the countries, upon the publica­tion of the king's letters: insomuch, that manyeven of other nations circumcised themselvesfor fear of the Jews: that they might procuresafety to themselves thereby.* For on thethirteenth day of the twelfth month, whichaccording to the Hebrews is called Adar, butaccording to the Macedonians Dystrus; thosethat carried the king's epistle gave them no­tice, that the same day wherein their dangerwas to have been, on that very day should they destroy their enemies. But now therulers of the provinces, and the tyrants, andthe kings, and the scribes, had the Jews inesteem. For the fear they were in of Morde-cai forced them to act with discretion. Nowwhen the royal decree was come to all thecountry that was subject to the king, theJews at Shushan slew five hundred of theirenemies. And when the king had told Estherthe number of those that were slain in thatcity; but did not well know what had beendone in the provinces; he asked her whethershe would have any thing farther doneagainst them? for that it should be doneaccordingly. Upon which she desired thatthe Jews might be permitted to treat theirremaining enemies in the same manner thenext day: as also that they might hang theten sons of Haman upon the gallows.f Sothe king permitted the Jews to do so, as de­sirous not to contradict Esther. So they gathered themselves together againon the fourteenth day of the month Dystrus,and slew about three hundred of their ene­mies; but Jtouched nothing of what richesthey had. Now there were slain by the Jewsthat were in the country, and in the othercities, seventy-five thousand of their enemies:and these were slain on the thirteenth day ofthe month; and the next day they kept as afestival.|| In like manner the Jews that werein Shushan gathered themselves together, and * It might be presumed that some, out of hatred to theJews, might be inclinable to obey Human's decree: forthough he himself was gone, yet it cannot be imagined,that all the friends and creatures that he had made perishedwith him. He might have a great party every where,and some of them so furiously enraged at his fall, as(even at the hazard of their own lives) would not fail toshew their indignation at those who were the occasion ofit: and therefore this second decree, procured by Morde-cai, gave them authority, if any attempt was made uponthem, either in great bodies, or small parties, not only todefend themselves and repel them, but to make as greata slaughter of them as they were able, and even to takepossession of their goods, as Haman had procured themlicense (chap. iii. 13.) to seize the goods of the Jews.Patrick's Commentary. B. t It is not unlikely, that many might be enraged athis death, and his sons, in particular, might set them­selves at the head of those who were bold enough toattempt the destruction of the Jews in Shushan, beingresolved to reveDge their father's death, though in sodoing they were sure to meet their own. And this seemsto suggest one reason why Esther was so solicitous tohave their dead bodies (for they were slain already) hungupon the gallows, chap. ix. 13. even because they had shewn more malice and indignation against the Jews, andon the day when the cruel edict came to take place, hadmade more desperate attacks upon them than any; thoughthe reason of the state, in this severity, might be to ex­pose the family to the greater infamy, and to deter othercounsellors from abusing the king at any time with falserepresentations. For though the Jews suffered none tohang on the tree (as they call the gallows) longer than tillthe evening of the day whereon they were executed; yetother nations let them hang until they were consumed,(as appears from the story of the Gibeonites, 2 Sam. xxi.9, 10.) or devoured by crows, vultures, or other ravenouscreatures; from whence that vulgar saying among theRomans, pascere in cruce corvos, had its rise. Patrick'sCommentary, and Pool's Annotations. B. t See 1 Sam. xv. 9, 14, 15, 19, 21. II Pur, in the Persian language, signifies a lot, and thefeast of Purim, or lots, (which had its name from Ha­inan's casting lots in order to divine which would bemost lucky to prefix for the murder of all the Jews in thewhole Persian dominions) is, to this very day, celebratedby the Jews, with some peculiar ceremonies, but most ofthem reducible to these three things, reading, resting,and feasting. Before the reading, which is performed inthe synagogue, and begins in the evening, as soon as the 3Y2