OCR Output 552 THE DECLINE AND FALL A.D. 284..September 12, Return ofNumerianwith the armyfrom Persia. pleasure of the spectators. They were protected from the fun andrain by an ample canopy, occasionally drawn over their heads. Theair wa9 continually refreshed by the playing of fountains, and pro足fusely impregnated by the grateful scent of aromatics. In the cen足ter of the edifice, the arena, or stage, was strewed with the finestsand, and successively afTumed the most different forms. At onemoment it seemed to rise out of the earth, like the garden of theHefperides, and was afterwards broken into the rocks and caverns ofThrace. The subterraneous pipes conveyed an inexhaustible supplyof water; and what had just before appeared a level plain, mightbe suddenly converted into a wide lake, covered with armed vessels,and replenished with the monsters of the deep95. In the decorationof these scenes, the Roman empefors displayed their wealth andliberality; and we read on various occasions, that the whole furni足ture of the amphitheatre consisted either of silver, or of gold, or ofamber 9<s. The poet who describes the games of Carinus, in the cha足racter of a shepherd attracted to the capital by the fame of theirmagnificence, affirms, that the nets designed as a defence against thewild beasts, were of gold wire; that the porticos were gilded, and thatthe belt or circle which divided the several ranks of spectators fromeach other, was studded with a precious Mosaic of beautiful stones 97. In the midst of this glittering pageantry, the emperor Carinus,secure of his fortune, enjoyed the acclamations of the people, theflattery of his courtiers, and the songs of the poets, who, for wantof a more essential merit, were reduced to celebrate the divinegraces of his person 9*. In the same hour, but at the distance ofnine hundred miles from Rome, his brother expired; and a suddenrevolution transferred into the hands of a stranger the scepter of thehouse of Carus The sons of Carus never saw each other after their father's death.The arrangements which their new situation required, were proba- 6 bly