OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL proper hours his palace was open to all his subjects, but the voiceof a crier was heard, as in the Eleufinian mysteries, pronouncing thefame salutary admonition; f Let none enter these holy walls, un-«* less he is conscious of a pUre and innocent mind 7VGeneral hap- Such an uniform tenour of life, which left not a moment for vice "inels or the Ionianworld. or folly, is a better proof of the wisdom and justice of Alexander'sA. D. 222— government, than all the trifling details preserved in the compila-tion of Lampridius. Since the accession of Commodus the Romanworld had experienced, during a term of forty years, the successiveand various vices of four tyrants. From the death of Elagabalusit enjoyed an auspicious calm of thirteen years. The provinces,relieved from the oppressive taxes, invented by Caracalla and hispretended son, flourished in peace and prosperity, under the ad­ministration of magistrates, who were convinced by experience, thatto deserve the love of the subjects, was their best and only methodof obtaining the favour of their sovereign. While some gentlerestraints were imposed on the insolent luxury of the Roman peo-ple, the price of provisions, and the interest of money, were re­duced, by the paternal care of Alexander, whose prudent liberality,without distressing the industrious, supplied the wants and amuse­ments of the populace. The dignity, the freedom, the authorityof the senate was restored; and every virtuous senator might ap­proach the person of the emperor, without a fear, and without ablush. Alexander re- The name of Antoninus, ennobled by the virtues of Pius andofsAntoninu* Marcus, had been communicated by adoption to the dissolute Ve-rus, and by descent to the cruel Commodus. It became the ho­nourable appellation of the sons of Severus, was bestowed on youngDiadumenianus, and at length prostituted to the infamy of thehigh priest of Emesa. Alexander, though pressed by the studied,and perhaps, sincere importunity of the senate, nobly refused theborrowed lustre of a name; whilst in his whole conduct he laboured. to