OCR Output 3+0 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK IV. the best part of that day's solemnity. The dictator, byorder of the people, presented to Jupiter Capitoiinus, acrown of gold, of a pound weight, at .the public ex-pence. I have followed the universal opinion of authors whowrote before me, in making A. Cornelius Cossus, onlya legionary tribune, at the time he brought the secondOpitna Spoiia into the temple of Jupiter Feretrius. Butbesides, that those only, properly speaking, are OpimaSpoiia, which one general takes from another, and nonecan be considered as a general, but he who has the solemanagement of the war; the very inscription of these.spoils, proves against both them and me, that he wasconsul when he took them. Therefore, when I heardthat Augustus Caesar, who either built or repaired allthe Roman temples, had visited that of Jupiter Feretrius,which he had rebuilt, after it had fallen to ruins by theravages of time, and that he himself had read the in­scription upon the linen breast-plate of Tolumnius, Ithought it a pity to deprive Cossus of the testimony ofhis own spoils, and of Casar also, who rebuilt the temple.The reader may, however, judge for himself, where themistake lies in that matter, because annals so ancient,and the linen register of magistrate* kept in the templeof Moneta, so often quoted by Liciifius Macer, takes no• notice of Cossus's consulship, till nine years after, whenTitus Quinctius Pennus was his colleague. Add to thisalso, that so famous a battle can never correspond to thatyear, because for almost three years before and after theconsulate of A. Cornelius, there was no war, owing to apestilential disiemper and a famine; insomuch that someannals, mourning, as it were, for the dead, mention no­thing with respect 19 these years, but the names of theconsuls. The third year after he was consul, he wasipade military tribune with consular |*nwer; and beforeit expired, master of horse, in which capacity, he foughtanother memorable battle at the head of the cavalry. Still we may judge of this matter as we please;" bat,in my opinion, we may conclude any dispute about thematter ridiculous, since he who commanded in this ac­tion, when the spoils were fresh and deposited in (hetemple, near Jupiter.himself, to whom they were devoted