OCR Output CHAP. XXXIX.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 7 destroy the Goths by each other's swords? Are you in­sensible that the victor in this unnatural contest will beexposed, and justly exposed, to their implacable revenge?Where are those warriors, ray kinsmen, and thy own,whose widows now lament that their lives were sacrificedto thy rash ambition? Where is the wealth which thysoldiers possessed when they were first allured from theirnative homes to enlist under thy standard? Each of themwas then master of three or four horses; they now fol­low thee on foot like slaves, through the deserts ofThrace; those men who were tempted by the hope ofmeasuring gold with a bushel, those brave men who areas free and as noble as thyself." A language so wellsuited to the temper of the Goths, excited clamour anddiscontent; and the son of Theodemir apprehensive ofbeing left alone, was compelled to embrace his brethren,and to imitate the example of Roman perfidy.™ In every state of his fortune, the prudence and firm- He under-ness of Theodoric were equally conspicuous; whether he conquestthreatened Constantinople at the head of the confederate a. a 489.Goths, or retreated with a faithful band to the mountains'and sea-coast of Epirus. At length the accidental death'of the son of Triarius" destroyed the balance which theRomans had been so anxious to preserve; the whole na­tion acknowledged the supremacy of the Amali, and theByzantine court subscribed an ignominious and oppres­sive treaty." The senate had already declared, that itwas necessary to choose a party among the Goths, sincethe public was unequal to the support of their unitedforces; a subsidy of two thousand pounds of gold, with m Jornandes (c. 56, 57. p. 696.) displays the services of Theodoric, confesseshis rewards, bat dissembles his revolt, of which such curious details have been pre­served by Malchus. (Excerpt. Legat, p. 78—97.) Marcellinas, a domestic of Jus­tinian, under whose fourth consulship (A. D. 534.) he composed his Chronicle, (Sea-liger, Thesaurus Temporum, p. 2. p. 34—57.) betrays Ills prejudice and passion : inGraeciam dehacchantem . . ■ Zenonis munificentia pene pacatus . . . beneficiis nun-quam satiatus, &c. n As he was riding in his own camp, an uuruly horse threw him against the pointof a spear which hung before a tent, or was fixed ou a waggon. (Marcellus, in Chron.Evagrias, lib. 3. c. 25.) ■ • See Malchus (p. 91.) and Evagrius, (lib. c. 35.)