OCR Output NAXOS. 40:7 NAXOS. probable that enmity to their neighbours at Messanawas a strung motive in inducing them to join theAthenians; and during the hostilities that ensued, theMe^sanians having on one occasion, in B.C. 425,made a sudden attack upon Naxos both by land andsea, the Naxians vigorously repulsed them, and intheir turn Inflicted heavy loss on the assailants. (Id.ir. 25.) On occasion of the great Athenian expedition toScily (b.c- 415), the Naxians from the first espousedtheir alliance, even while their kindred cities ofBhegium and Catana held aloof; and not only fur­nished them with supplies, but received them freelyinto their city (Diod. xiii. 4; Thuc. vi. 50). Henceit was at Naxos that the Athenian fleet first touchedafter crossing the straits; and at a later period theNaxians and Catanaeans are enumerated by Thu-cydides as the only Greek cities in Sicily whichaided with the Athenians. (Thuc. vii. 57.) Afterthe failure of this expedition the Chalcidic citieswere naturally involved for a time in hostilities withSyracuse; but these were suspended in B.c. 409, bythe danger which seemed to threaten all the Greekcities alike from the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 5G.)Their position on this occasion preserved the Naxiansfrom the fate which befell Agrigentum, Gela, andCamarina; but they did not long enjoy this immu­nity. In B.C. 403, Dionysius of Syracuse, deeminghimself secure from the power of Carthage as wellas from domestic sedition, determined to turn hisarms against the Chalcidic cities of Sicily; and havingmada himself master of Naxos by the treachery oftheir general Procles, he sold all the inhabitants asslaves and destroyed both the walls and buildings ofthe city, while he bestowed its territory upon theneighbouring Siculi. (Diod. xiv. 14, 15, G6, 68.) It is certain that Naxos never recovered this blow,nor rose again to be a place of any consideration:but it is not easy to trace precisely the events whichfollowed. It appears, however, that the Siculi, towhom the Naxian territory was assigned, soon afterformed a new settlement on the hill called MountTaurus, which rises immediately above the site ofNaxus. and that this gradually grew up into a con­siderable town, which assumed the name of Tauro-men turn. (Diod. xiv. 58, 59.) This took place aboutB.C. 396; and we find the Siculi still in possessionef this stronghold some years later. (76.88.) Mean­while the exiled and fugitive inhabitants of Naxosand Catana formed, as usual in such cases, a con-aiderable body, who as far as possible kept together.An attempt was made in b. c. 394 by the Rhegiansto tettle them again in a body at Mylae, but withoutsuccess; for they were speedily expelled by the Mes-unians, and from this time appear to have beendispersed in various parts of Sicily. (Diod. xiv. 87.)At length, in b. c. 358, Andromachus, the father ofthe historian Timaeus, is said to have collectedt^fether again the Naxian exiles from all parts ofthe island, and established them on the hill of Tau-rumraiam, which thus rose to be a Greek city, andbecame the successor of the ancient Naxos. (Diod.xn. T.) Hence Pliny speaks of Tanromenium ashaving been formerly called Naxos, an expressionwhich is not strictly correct. (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.)The fortunes of the new city, which quickly roseto be a place of importance, are related in thearticle TAt'KOMKSirM. The site of Naxos itselfawns to hare been never again inhabited; but thealtar and shrine of Apollo Arcbegetes continued tomark the spot where it had stood, and are mentioned in the war between Octavian and Sextus Pompey inSicily, b. c 36. (Appian, B. C. V. 109.) There are no remains of the ancient city nowextant, but the site is clearly marked. It occupieda low but rocky headland, now called the Capo diSchisdy formed by an ancient stream of lava, im­mediately to the N. of the Alcantara, one of themost considerable streams in this part of Sicily. Asmall bay to the N. affords good anchorage, andseparates it from the foot of the bold and lofty hill,still occupied by the town of Taormtna; but thesituation was not one which enjoyed any peculiarnatural advantages. The coins of Naxos, which are of fine workman­ship, may almost all be referred to the period fromB.C. 460 to b.c. 403, which was probably themost flourishing in the history of the city. [E. H. B.] COHf OF NAXOS IJT SICILY. NAXOS or NAXUS (Nci£oj, Suid. s. r.), a town ofCrete, according to the Scholiast {ad Pind. hth, vi.107) celebrated for its whetstones. Hock (Kreta,vol. i. p. 417) considers the existence of this city veryproblematical. The islands Crete and Naxos werefamed for their whetstones (Plin. xxxvi. 22; comp,xviii. 28), and hence the confusion. In Mr. Pashley'smap the site of Naxos is marked near SpinaLonga. [E. B. J.] NAXOS orNAXUS(N#or: Eth.Vd^tos: Narta),the largest and most fertile of theCyrlades, situated inthe middle of the Aegean sea, about halfway betweenthe coasts of Greece and those of Asia Minor. Itlies east of Paros, from which it is separated by achannel about 6 miles wide. It is described by Pliny(iv. 12. s. 22) as 75 Roman miles in circumference.It is about 19 miles in length, and 15 in breadth inits widest part. It bore several other names in an­cient times. It was called Strongyle (Stpo^i'Atj)from its round shape, Dionysias (aiowofus) fromits excellent wine and its consequent connection withthe worship of Dionysus, and the Smaller Sicily(ptKpa SifccAfa) from the fertility of its soil (Flin.iv. 12. s. 22: Diod. v. 50—52);* but the poets fre­quently give it the name of Dia (&Ut\ comp. Ov.Met. ii. 690, viii. 174.) It is said to have beenoriginally inhabited by Thracians, and then by Ca-rians, and to have derived its name from Naxos, theCarian chieftain. (Diod. v. 50, 51; Staph. P. *. r.No^or.) In the historical ages it was colonised bylonians from Attica (Herod, viii. 46), and in con­sequence of its position, size, and fertility, it becametho most powerful of the Cyclades. The govern­ment of Naxos was orignally an oligarchy, but wasoverthrown by Lygdamis, who made himself tyrantof the island. (Aristot. op, Ath. viii. p. 348.)Lygdamis, however, appears not to have retained hispower long, for we find him assisting Peisistratus inhis third restoration to Athens, and the latter in re­turn subduing Naxos and committing the tyrannyto Lygdamis. (Herod, i. 61, 64; comp. Aristot.Pol v. 5.) But new revolutions followed. The D D 3