OCR Output AN. 44.] 517 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. were friendly to the Jews, even in the daysof Abraham; who was the father of all theHebrews; as we have also found it set downin our public records." "The decree of those of Halicarnassus.When Memnon, the son of Orestidas, by de­scent, but by adoption of Euonymus, waspriest in the month Aristerion, the decree ofthe people, upon the representation of Mar­cus Alexander, was this. Since we have evera great regard to piety towards God, and toholiness; and since we aim to follow the peo­ple of the Romans, who are the benefactorsof all men, and what they have written to usabout a league of friendship and mutual as­sistance between the Jews and our city, andthat their sacred offices, and accustomed fes­tivals and assemblies, may be observed bythem: we have decreed, that as many menand women of the Jews as are willing so todo, may celebrate their sabbaths, and per­form their holy offices according to the Jew­ish laws, and may* make their proseuchae atthe sea side; according to the custom of theirforefathers. And if any one, whether he bea magistrate, or private person, hinder themfrom so doing, he shall be liable to a fine; tobe applied to the uses of the city." "The decree of the Sardians. This de­cree was made by the senate and people,upon the representation of the praetors.Whereas those Jews who are our fellow citi­zens, and live with us in this city, have everhad great benefits heaped upon them by thepeople; and have come now into the senate,and desired of the people that, upon the res­titution of their law, and their liberty by thesenate and people of Rome, they may assem­ble together according to their ancient legalcustom; and that we will not bring any suit against them about it; and that a place maybe given, where they may have their con­gregations, with their wives and children;and may offer, as did their forefathers, theirprayers and sacrifices to God: now the senateand people have decreed to permit them toassemble together on the days formerly ap­pointed; and to act according to their ownlaws: and that such a place shall be setapart for them by the praetors, for the build­ing and inhabiting the same, as they shallesteem fit for that purpose. And that thosewho take care of the provisions for the city,shall take care that such sorts of food, asthey esteem fit for their eating, may be im­ported into the city." "The decree of the Ephesians. WhenMenophilus was prytanis; on the first day ofthe month Artemisius, this decree was madeby the people; and Nicanor, the son of Eu-phemus, pronounced it, upon the representa­tion of the praetors. Since the Jews thatdwell in this city have petitioned Marcus Ju­lius Pompeius, the son of Brutus, the procon­sul, that they may be allowed to observe theirsabbaths; and to act in all things accordingto the customs of their forefathers, withoutimpediment from any body; the praetor hathgranted their petition. Accordingly it wasdecreed by the senate and people, that, inthis affair that concerned the Romans, noone of them should be hindered from keepingthe sabbath day, nor be fined for so doing:but that they be allowed to do all things ac­cording to their own laws." Now there are fmany such decrees of thesenate and imperators of the Romans, andthose different from these before us, whichhave been made in favour of Hyrcanus, andof our nation; as also there have been more and that the public acts of their city then extant confirmedthe same. This evidence is too strong to be evaded byour present ignorance of the particular occasion of suchancient friendship and alliance between those people. Seethe like full evidence of the kindred of the Lacedaemoni­ans and the Jews; and that because they were both theposterity of Abraham: by a public epistle of these peopleto the Jews, preserved in the first book of the Maccabeesxii. 19—23. and thence by Josephus, in his Antiquities,XII. 4. both which authentic records are highly valuable.It is also worthy of observation, what Moses Chorenensis,the principal Armenian historian, informs us of, page 83.that Arsaces, who raised the Parthian empire, was of theseed of Abraham, by Chetura; and that thereby was ac­complished that prediction, which said, "Kings of nations shall proceed from thee." Gen. xvii. 6. * See the note on Book XII. chap. 2. t If we compare Josephus's former promises to produceall the public decrees of the Romans in favour of the Jews,with his excuse here, for omitting many of them; wemay observe, that when he came to transcribe all thosedecrees he had collected, he found them so numerous,that he thought he should too much tire his readers if hehad attempted it: which he thought a sufficient apologyfor his omitting the rest of them. Yet do those by himproduced, afford such a strong confirmation to his history,and give such great light to even the Roman antiquitiesthemselves; that I believe the curious are not a littlesorry for such omissions. 4M2