OCR Output CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. &l would not hear him in his own defence; but condemnedhim to a new kind of death, to be thrown in at the headof the spring of Ferentinum, with a hurdle laid on him,covered with stones heaped on it, and there drowned. CHAP. LII. Tarquin's address to the assembly. .L ARQUIN having recalled the Latins to the assem­bly, and having commended them highly for the justpunishment they bad inflicted upon Turnus, for themtended massacre proved against him, to pave the wayfor a revolution in the state, addressed them in the fol-:lowing terms: " That he could plead an ancient right,seeing all the Latins came originally from Alba, thatthey were included in that treaty, whereby the wholeAlban state, with its colonies, had submitted to thegovernment of Rome, in the reign of Tullus. But,he thought it would be more for the common interest,if that treaty were renewed. And that the Latinsshould rather share with the Romans in their good for­tune, than either be in perpetual terror of, or subject­ed to the destruction of their towns, or devastation oftheir lands, as had been the case, first in the reign oAncus, and then in that of his own father."The Latins were easily persuaded, although they sawthat the balance of mterest lay upon the side of the Ro­mans, when they found that the leading men of the na­tion were disposed to coincide with, and stand by theking's motion. Besides, they were tauyht, in the exam­ple of Turnus, what they had to expect, should any ofthem be so bold as oppose him. Thus was the treaty renewed, and the Latin youthordered by proclamation, in consequence of this treaty;to assemble in arms, on a certain day, at the grove ofFerentinum. When those of all the different tribes hadrendezvoused at the place appointed, agreeable to Tar­quin's proclamation, that they might have no leader oftheir own, no separate command, or ensigns of distinc­tion, he blended the Romans and Latins together in eve­ry company, making one of two, and two of o?.e. Hav­