OCR Output 268 NOTES ON THE to its monad preceding dissimilar multitude, it is necessary thateach of these heroic souls should be the leader of other fouls of aninferior rank, but yet resembling their leader in a high degree.Thus Achilles in the Iliad, who, as we have observed in a formercote, is an heroic foul energizing according to practical virtue,stands at the head of a kindred multitude of souls, who, from theirproximity to. such characters as himself, are dignified with theappellation of heroes. Ajax belonged to this kindred multitude,together with Tidydes, Ulysses, and many others; this multi­tude at the fame time possessing gradations of excellence, in orderthat its extremity may coalesce with less elevated fouls. It istherefore by no means wonderful, that Ajax possessed such re­markable strength and magnitude of body, as he belonged tothat class of souls who approximate very near to real heroesamong men. But a very natural doubt may here arise in the mind of thethinking reader, why Æneas, who is said to have been born of agoddess, as well as Achilles, and of a goddess of a much higherrank than the mother of Achilles, is represented by Homer asengaged in a bad cause, which he evidently is, by fightingfor the Trojans. I answer, that the doubt may be solved, byreading Homer with that profound attention which his poemsso justly demand. For we mail find, that though he calls Æneasa hero, as well as Achilles, from his resembling true heroes inmany respects, yet he plainly evinces that his claim to this cha­racter was not incontrovertible, when he represents Apollo thusspeaking to Æneas: (Iliad. :o. v. 105.) t& as <pztn Aio; xoffi; AippoMiijExyi- aaEf. i. e. "For they say that you are descended from Venus the, daughter of Jupiter." For here the term they fay plainly indi­cates that his claim to this honour was ambiguous: but he neveruses an expression of this k-ind when he speaks of Achilles. Iadd, that these periods of fertility and sterility depend on the different