OCR Output 464 ROMAN EMPIRE. restraints must be offensive to the pride or the zeal of theChristians.1" About two hundred years after Mahomet,they were separated from their fellow-subjects by a tur­ban or girdle of a less honourable colour; instead ofhorses or mules, they were condemned to ride on asses,in the attitude of women. Their public and privatebuildings were measured by a diminutive standard; inthe streets of the baths it is their duty to give way or bowdown before the meanest of the people; and their testi­mony is rejected, if it may tend to the prejudice of a truebeliever. The pomp of processions, the sounds of bellsor of psalmody, is interdicted in their worship: a decentreverence for the national faith, is imposed on their ser­mons and conversations; and the sacrilegious attempt toenter a mosch, or to seduce a Mussulman, will not besuffered to escape with impunity. In a time, however,of tranquillity and justice, the Christians have never beencompelled to renounce the Gospel or to embrace theKoran: but the punishment of death is inflicted uponthe apostates who have professed and deserted the lawof Mahomet. The martyrs of Cordova provoked thesentence of the cadhi, by the public confession of theirinconstancy, or their passionate invectives against theperson and religion of the prophet.1The em- At the end of the first century of the Hegira,caliphs0"* tne canphs were the most potent and absoluteA.D.71B. monarchs of the globe. Their prerogative wasnot circumscribed, either in right or in fact, by the powerof the nobles, the freedom of the commons, the privileges k Heland explains the general restraints of the Mahometan policy and jurispru­dence. (Dissertat. torn. 3. p. 16—20.) The oppressive edicts of the caliph Mota-wakkel, (A. D. 847—861.) which are still in force, are noticed by Eutychius (An-nal. torn. t. p. 448.) and d'Herbelot. (Bibliot. Orient, p. 640.) A persecution ofthe caliph Omar II. is related, and most probably magnified, by the Greek Theo-phancs. (Chron. p. 334.) 1 The martyrs of Cordova (A. D. 850, &c.) are commemorated and justified bySt. Eulogius, who at length fell a victim himself. A synod, convened by the caliph,ambiguously censured their rashness. The moderate Fleury cannot reconcile theirconduct with the discipline of antiquity, toutefois 1'autorite de l'Egli<e, &c.(Fleury, Hist. Eccles. torn. 10. p. 415—5*2. particularly p. 451. 508,509.) Theirauthentic acts throw a strong though a transient light on the Spanish church in theninth century.