OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the neighbouring country, and the territory of Constan­tinople, a paradise of nature, was adorned with the lux­urious gardens and villas of the senators and opulent ci­tizens. But their wealth served only to attract the boldand rapacious barbarians; the noblest of the Romans,in the bosom of peaceful indolence, were led away intoScythian captivity, and their sovereign might view, fromhis palace, the hostile flames which were insolently spreadto the gates of the imperial city. At the distance only offorty miles, Anastasius was constrained to establish a lastfrontier; his long wall,of sixty miles from the Propontis tothe Euxine, proclaimed the impotence of his arms; andas the danger became more imminent, new fortificationswere added by the indefatigable prudence of Justinian.* Asia Minor, after the submission of the Isaurians,dremained without enemies and without fortifications, security ofThose bold savages, who had disdained to be the sub- the"™-'jects of Galienus, persisted two hundred and thirty years J"*8'^in a life of independence and rapine. The most suc­cessful princes respected the strength of the mountainsand the despair of the natives; their fierce spirit wassometimes soothed with gifts, and sometimes restrainedby terror; and a military count, with three legions, fixedhis permanent and ignominious station in the heart ofthe Roman provinces." But no sooner was the vigilanceof power relaxed or diverted, than the light-armed squa­drons descended from the hills, and invaded the peacefulplenty of Asia. Although the Isaurians were not re­markable for stature or bravery, want rendered thembold, and experience made them skilful in the exercise ofpredatory war. They advanced with secrecy and speed c See tjje long wall in Evagrius. (lib, 4. c. 38.) This whole article is drawn fromthe fourth book of the Edifices, except Anchialus. (lib. 3. c. 7.) d Turn back to vol. 1. p. 330. In the coarse of this history, I have sometimesmentioned, and mnch oftener slighted, the hasty iuroads of the Isaurians, which werenot attended with any consequences. 'Trebellius Pollio in Hist. August, p. 107. who lived under Diocletian, or Con-stantine. Nee likewise Pancirolus ad Not. Imp. Orient. c. 115.141. See Cod.Theodos. lib. 9. tit. 35.1eg. 37. with a copious collective Annotation of Coilefroy,tom. 3. p. 2S6, 2a7.