OCR Output 3R.S MO.NESI. MOOKTIAXA. Timachi by the river Timachua. The Triconesii,who derived tJicir name from Tricornum, were onthe confines of Dahnatia. The Peucini inhabitedtlie island of Peace, at the month of the Danube.The Thraces were near their own country; theScordisci, between the Dardani and Dalmatia. The^locsi, or My si, proper, inhabited the heart of thecountry to which they gave their name, on thebanks of the river Ciabrus. [A. L.] . MOGETIANA or MOGKNTIANA, a place inLower Pnnnonia, on the road from Sopianac toSabaria. (It. Ant. pp.263,233.) Its exact site isuncertain. [L. S.J MOGOXTIACUMor MAGOXTIACUM {Mains),a city of Gallia, on the lthine. On this spot wasbuilt a monument in honour of Drusus the lather ofGerman icus. (Eutrop. vii. 13.) Magontiacum, asit is written in the text of Tacitus, is often men­tioned in the history of the war of Civil is, (Tacit.Hist iv. 15, 24, &c.) Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 14) writesthe name MokojtiokoV, and places the town inGermania Inferior. In Eutropius the form of theword is Mugoutiacum (ed. Verheyk); but the MSS.have also the forms Maguntia and Moguntia, whenceis easily derived the French form Mayence, and theGerman Mainz. The position of Mogontiacum atMainz on the Rhine is determined by the I tins,which place it 18 M. P. from Bingium {Bingtn),also on the Rhine. It was an important positionunder the Roman empire, but no great events areconnected with the name. Ammianus Marcel linos(xv. 11) calls it a Municipium, which means a townthat had a Roman form of administration. [G. L.J MOGULS (Mw7pof), a navigable river in Colchis,flowing into the Euxine between the Phasis in thenorth, and the Isis in the south; its mouth is justmidway between the two, being 90 stadia distantfrom each. (Arrian, Peripl. Pont. Eux. p. 7; Plin.vi. 4.) As an ancient reading in Pliny isNugrus, and the Table has Nigrus, it is possiblethat the real name of the river may have been Ko-grus, and that in Arrian also we must read Nw-ypos. [L. S.] MOLADA (MwAaott), a town of Palestine,reckoned among the uttermost cities of the tribeof Judah toward the coast of Edom southward{Joshua, xv. 21. 26), and indeed in that part whichfell to the tribe of Simeon, " whose inheritance waswithin the inheritance of the children of Judah."(lb. xix. 1, 2; 1 Chron. iv. 24. 28.) Reland re­marks, " Videtur esse eadem ac Malatha" (I'alaesL$. v. p. 901.), which Malatha is mentioned by Jo-sephus as a castle of Idumaea, to which Agrippa, theson of Aristobulus and son-in-law of Herod the Great,retired in his distress after his return from Rome, andwhere he meditated suicide. (Ant. xviii. 7. § 2.) Itis mentioned also by Eusebius and S. Jerome asiv. M. P. distant from Arad ('Apo>d), which theydescribe as an ancient city of the Anton tes, situated inthe wilderness of Kadcsh (KcESStjs), xx. M.P. fromHebron, on the road to Ada. {Onomast. s. vv.'Apaud, 'Aaaouv dapd*; Reland, Palaettina, i.e.Malatha, pp. 885, 886.) The site of Arad u stillmarked by a ruin of the same name, at the requireddistance S. of H»'bron; near to which are wells andruins named El MiUi, which Dr. Robinson " wasdisposed to rvjrard as marking the site of the an­cient Moladah of the Old Testament, the Malathaof the Greeks and Romans." {Bib. He*, vol. ii.p. 621.) [G.W.] MOLINDAE (Plin. vl 19. s. 22), a jtcoplc u*en­ tioned by Pliny, who lived in the eastern part ofIndia extra Gangem. It seems probable that theyare the same as those noticed by Ptuleiny with tie)name Marundae (yiapovvb'at, viL 2. § 14). [V.JMOLOCATII. [Mullcua.] »EIS. [PlatJSSI, MOLO'S MOLOSSI, MdLO'SSIA. '[Epkkuk.] MOLU'RIS. [Mkoara, Vol IL p. 317. a.] MOL VCRE1UM, MOLYCREIA, or MOLY'CRU(yiu\uKptiQyf Thuc. ii. 84; MqKvkjhul, Strab. a.p. 451, et alii; MoKvKpia, Polyb. v. 94; Pan*, ix.31. § 6: Etk. >\u.\vKptost more ran-ly MoXi/icp.«vi,MoAvupaiiji, fern. Mo\vxpnnrat MokvKptds), a tuwaof Aetolia, situated near the sea-coast, and at a abortdistance from the promontory Antirrhiam, whtcbwas hence called 'Piov to MoAi/irpiJcoV (Tunc iL 86),or MoKvKptov "Piov. (Strab. viii. p. 336.) Somewriters call it a Locriau town. It is said by Strabcto have been built after the return of the Herat tedaeinto Peloponnesus. It was colonised by the Corinth­ians, but was subject to the Athenians in the earlypart of the Peloponnesian War. It was taken by theSpartan commander Eurylochus, with tlie assistanceof the Aetolians, a.c. 426. It was considered sacmlto Poseidon. (Strab. x. pp. 451, 460; ScyL p. 14;Thuc. ii. 84, iii. 102 ; Diud. xii. 60; Polyb., Pane,ll.ee.; Plin. iv. 2. ft. 3 , Ptol. iii. 15. § 3; Sceph.Byz. s. p.) MOMEMPHIS (Mfotuupu, Strab. xrii. p. 803:Diodor. i. G6, 97; Steph. B. i. v.), the capital of thenome Mo-Mcmphitis, in the Delta. It was seated inlat. 31°5' N.,on the eastern shore of the lake Marrotis,N. of the Natron Lakes. Both its ancient and iUmodern appellation—ManoufeUejjly—indicate itsposition as the Lower Memphis, or Memphis in themar&hes. During the troubles which led to theDodecarchy, Momemphis was a place of somestrength, owing to the difficulties of its apfmsachea.It was chiefly remarkable for its exportation ofmineral alkalies from the neighbouring NatronLakes. Athor or Aphrodite, under the f<*n of acow, was worshipped at M jmetnphis. [W. B. D.] MONA (Mora, Ptol. iii. 2. § 12; Majm, DionCass. Uii. 7), an island in Britain, off the 1—itof tlie Ordovices, the /We of' An<jU*ty. Caesar describes sl<>na as situated in the middleof the pas>a;:e from Britain to Ireland {B. <j. r. l.'t).but by Mona in this passage he must mean theIsle of Man, which Phny calls Mchcapia (iv. 16.s. 30); and Ptolemy that of Mokaiuxa or Mu-NAOKUA (Moraptra, Muvaoi&a). The I tic of Anglesey was first invaded by Sot-ton ins Paullinus, governor of Britain under Sera,a .ii. til. Previous to the appointment of Surto-nius Paullinus, the Hot nans liad met with S'mie re­verses in the west of Britain. From the vigoruo*measures adopted by Paullinus on entering upun thegovernment of Britain, U may be inferred that tikeDruids of Mona bad excited the Ordo vices axad theSilurea to rise in rebellion; or had assisted them;probably both. Tacitus states that M»ua was a re­ceptacle for fugitives. The island was well }*»punand there the priests of the Druidical niigMSt Iestablished themselves in great strength. Vtwas recalled from the conquest of AngUsry by therevolt of the Britons under Boadicea, and ita aubjo-gation was not completed till A. u. 78 by Agnrulsv(Tac Agrk. pp. 15,18. ^a*.xiv.29.) [C.K.&.] MONAP1A. [MoitA.] MONDA. [Miwda.] MONK6I, ouo of the many profiles of Ao^wUflsa