OCR Output 264 LIVY. such a vast number of soldiers being brought by tbeships, and another army quite unexpected pressing ontheir rear. The Gauls finding that, instead of being theassailants, as they had intended, they were even drivenfrom their own ground, made off hastily through theclearest opening that they could find, and in the utmostconfusion dispersed to their several towns. Hannibalnow looked with contempt on the boisterous menacesof this people, and bringing over the rest of his forcesat leisure, encamped on the spot. Various plans Ishould suppose were projected for conveying the ele­phants across the river, at least the accounts trans­mitted of the manner in which it was performed arevarious. Some relate, that being brought all togetherto the river side, the fiercest among them was provokedto anger by his keeper, who pursued him by swimmingas he fled into the water; that this drew down the restof the herd ; and that each, as soon as he lost the bot­tom, was by the mere force of the stream hurried to theopposite bank. But it is more generally agreed thatthey were carried over on rafts; and as this must haveappeared the safer method, it is now more easy to be­lieve that the business was so effected. One raft, oftwo hundred feet in length, and fifty in breadth, wasextended from the bank into the river, the upper partof it being firmly fastened to the shore with severalstrong cables, to prevent its being carried down withthe stream, and this was covered with a layer of earth,like a bridge, in order that the beasts might withoutfear walk on it as on solid ground. Another raft ofequal breadth, and one hundred feet long, was fastenedto this, and when the elephants, being driven over thefixed raft as on a road, the females going foremost,passed over to the smaller one which was joined to it,then the ropes with which this latter had been slightlytied were instantly loosed, and it was towed away byseveral light vessels to the other bank. When the firstwere thus landed, it was brought back for the rest. Aslong as they were driven, as it were, on a bridge con­nected with the land, they showed no signs of fear: