OCR Output 66 SIEGE OF TARICHE.fi. [b. III. men to our assistance, that as few as we are we may conquerso great a multitude, and may ourselves alone take the city." 5. As soon as ever Titus had said this, he leaped upon hishorse, and rode apace down to the lake; by which lake hemarched, and entered into the city the first of them all, asdid the others soon after him. Hereupon those that wereupon the walls were seized with a terror at the boldness ofthe attempt, nor durst any one venture to fight with him orto hinder him; so they left guarding the city; and some ofthose that were about Jesus fled over the country, while othersof them ran down to the lake, and met the enemy in theteeth; and some were slain as they were getting up into ships,but others of them as they attempted to overtake those thatwere already gone abroad. There was also a great slaughtermade in the city, while those foreigners that had not fledaway already made opposition; but the natural inhabitantswere killed without fighting; for in hopes of Titus's givingthem his right hand for security, and out of a consciousnessthat they had not given any consent to the war, they avoidedfighting, till Titus had slain the authors of this revolt, andthen put a stop to any farther slaughter, out of commiserationof these inhabitants of the place. But for those that hadfled to the lake, upon seeing the city taken, they sailed asfar as they possibly could from the enemy. 6. Hereupon Titus sent one of his horsemen to his father,and let him know the good news of what he had done; atwhich, as was natural, he was very joyful, both on accountof the courage and glorious actions of his son; for he thoughtthat now the greatest part of the war was over. He thencame thither himself, and set men to guard the city, andgave them command to take care that nobody got privatelyout of it, but to kill such as attempted so to do. And onthe next day he went down to the lake, and commanded thatvessels should be fitted up in order to pursue those that hadescaped in the ships. These vessels were quickly gottenready accordingly, because there was great plenty of materials,and a great number of artificers also. 7. Now this lake of Oennesareth is so called from the