OCR Output 162 [A.U.C.773 THE ANNALS plained; ensnaring subtleties were removed; andthe evil, though not wholly cured, was palliated forthe present. XXIX. About this time Nero, the eldest son ofGermanicus, was entering on the state of manhood.Tiberius recommended him to the favour of thesenate, adding his request, that the young princemight be excused from serving the office of the vi-gintivirate, with leave, five years earlier than thetime limited by law, to stand candidate for the ques-torship. As a precedent for this indulgence he citedthe example of Augustus, who had made the like ap­plication for himself and his brother Drusus. Theproposal was a mockery, and, accordingly, men heardit with derision. Even in the reign of Augustus,there were in all probability, numbers who laughed,in secret, at the new way of commanding by petition.The artifice, however, was at that time not impolitic rthe grandeur of the Ctcsars was in its infancy, andthe forms of the old republic were still remembered.With regard to the request made by Tiberius, it mayhe observed, that the relation between the step-fatherand the sons of his wife did not create so tender arkinterest, as the natural affection of a grand-father forhis grand-son. The senate not only granted whatwas asked, but added a seat in the pontifical college.The day, on which the young prince made his firstappearance in the forum, was distinguished by alargess to the people, who saw with pleasure a sonof Germanicus rising to the estate of manhood. Hismarriage with Julia, the daughter of Drusus, wassoon after celebrated, and diffused a general satisfac­tion. But another match, then in contemplation, be­tween the son of Claudius and a daughter of Seja-nus, was received by the people with every mark ofdiscontent. Men objected, that the lustre of the im­perial family would be tarnished, and the ambitionof Sejanus, already suspected, would, when strength­ened by that connexion, tower above the rank of acitizen. XXX. Towards the close of the year died twomen of distinguished character, namely, Lucius Vo­