OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 175 from me to act with spirit, than I from you to speakwith elegance: I now make you a final proposal,which will demonstrate, not which is the better orator,for that is not what the public wants, but which is thebetter commander. The provinces are Etruria andSamnium : make your choice ; I, with my own army,will undertake to manage the business of either.' Thesoldiers then, with loud clamors, requested that theywould in conjunction carry on the war in Etruria ;when Volumnius, perceiving that it was the generalwish, said, ' Since I have been mistaken in apprehend­ing my colleague's meaning, I will take care that thereshall be no room for mistake with respect to the pur­port of your wishes. Signify by a shout, whether youchoose that I should stay or depart.' On this', a shoutwas raised, so loud, that it brought the enemy out oftheir camp: they snatched up their arms, and marchedforward in order of battle. Volumnius likewise or­dered the signal to be sounded, and his troops to takethe field. It is said that Appius hesitated, perceivingthat, whether he fought or remained inactive, his col­league would enjoy the honor of the victory; andthat, afterwards, dreading lest his own legions shouldfollow Volumnius with the rest, he gave the signal atthe earnest desire of his men. On neither side werethe forces drawn up to advantage : for, on the one,Gellius Egnatius, the Samttite general, had gone outto forage with a few cohorts, and his men entered onthe fight, as the violence of their passions prompted,rather than under any directions or orders. On theother, the Roman armies neither marched out toge­ther, nor had time sufficient to form : Volumnius be­gan to engage before Appius came up, consequentlytheir front in the battle was uneven ; and by some ac­cidental interchange of their usual opponents, theEtrurians fought against Volumnius ; and the Sam-nites, after delaying some time on account of the ab­sence of their general, against Appius. We are toldthat Appius, during the heat of the fight, raising hisLauds towards heaven, so as to be seen in the foremost