OCR Output 220 THE DECLINE AND FALL his youth had been instructed by the lessons of juris­prudence, and his Imperial choice selected the mostlearned civilians of the East, to labour with their sove­reign in the work of reformation *. The theory ofprofessors was assisted by the practice of advocates, andthe experience of magistrates; and the whole under­taking was animated by the spirit of Tribonian. Thisextraordinary man, the object of so much praise andcensure, was a native of Side in Pamphylia; and hisgenius, like that of Bacon, embraced, as his own, allthe business and knowledge of the age. Triboniancomposed, both in prose and verse, on a strange diver­sity of curious and abstruse subjects: a double pane­gyric of Justinian, and the life of the philosopherTheodotus; the nature of happiness and the duties ofgovernment; Homer,s catalogue, and the four-and-twenty sorts of metre; the astronomical canon ofPtolemy; the changes of the months; the houses ofthe planets; and the harmonic system of the world.To the literature df Greece he added the use of theLatin tongue; the Roman civilians were deposited inhis library and in his mind; and he most assiduouslycultivated those arts which opened the road of wealthand preferment. From the bar of the praetorian pre­fects, he raised himself to the honours of quaestor, ofconsul, and of master of the offices: the council ofJustinian listened to his eloquence and wisdom, andenvy was mitigated by the gentleness and affability ofhis manners. The reproaches of impiety and avaricehave stained the virtues or the reputation of Tribo­nian. The principal minister was accused of a secret CHAP.XXXVII. Tribonian,A. D. 527 —540. * For the legal labours of Justinian, I have studied the preface to the Insti­tutes; the 1st, 2d, and 3d Prefaces to the Pandects; the 1 st and 2d Preface to theCode; and the Code itself (1. i. tit. xvii. de Veteri Jure enucleando). After theseoriginal testimonies, I have consulted, among the moderns, Hcinecdus (Hist. J.R. No. 383—404), Terasson (Hist. de la Jurisprudence Romaine, p. 295—356),Gravina (Opp. p- 93—100), and Ludcwig, in his life of Justinian (p. 19—123,318—321: for the Code and Novels, p. 209—261; for the Digest or Pandects,p. 262—317).