OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE/ 69 the-immediate jurisdiction of the senate. With regard to civil obi.jects, it was the supreme court of appeal; with regard to criminalmatters, a tribunal, constituted for the trial of all offences that werecommitted by men in any public station, or that affected the peaceand majesty of the Roman people. The exercise of the judicialpower became the most frequent and serious occupation of the senate;and the important causes that were pleaded before them, affordeda last refuge to the spirit of ancient eloquence. As a council ofstate, and as a court of justice, the senate possessed very considerablyprerogatives; but in its legislative capacity, in which it was sup­posed virtually to represent the people, the rights of sovereigntywere acknowledged to reside in that assembly. Every power wasderived from their authority, every law was ratified by their sanc­tion. Their regular meetings were held on three stated days inevery month, the Calends, the Nones, and the Ides. The de­bates were conducted with decent freedom; and the emperorsthemselves, who gloried in the name of senators, fat, voted, anddivided with their equals- . . * • To resume, in a few words, the system of the Imperial govern- General ideament; as it was instituted by Augustus, and maintained by those rial system?princes who understood their own interest and that of thepeople,, it may be defined an absolute monarchy disguisedby the forms of a commonwealth. The masters of the Romanworld surrounded their throne with darkness, concealed their irre­sistible strength, and humbly professed themselves the accountableministers of the senate, whose supreme decrees they dictated and '9 The face of the court corresponded with the forms of the admini- Court of thestration. The emperors, if we except those tyrants whose capricious eropero"'folly violated every law of nature and decency, disdained that pompand ceremony which might offend their countrymen, but couldadd nothing to their real power. In all the offices of life, they af- • • • - fectedi