OCR Output 512 DISSERTATION III. for no assistance from any of the gods, or from any of man足kind, since they had been abandoned by both, but bade thembelieve in him, as in a celestial leader,1 by whose help theyhad already gotten clear of their present miseries. Theyagreed to it; and although they were unacquainted with everything, they began their journey at random : but nothing tiredthem so much as want of water; and now they laid themselvesdown on the ground to a great extent, as just ready to perish,when a herd of wild asses came from feeding, and went to arock overshadowed by a grove of trees. Moses followedthem, as conjecturing that there was [thereabouts] somegrassy soil, and so he opened large sources of water for them.2That was an case to them; and when they had journeyedcontinually six entire days,a on the seventh they drove outthe inhabitants, and obtained those lands wherein their cityand temple were dedicated. Cn\AP. IV.] As for Moses, in order to secure the nationfirmly to himself, he ordained new rites, and such as werecontrary to those of other men. All things are with themprofane which with us are sacred; and again, those practicesare allowed among them which arc by us esteemed mostabominable.1 They place the image of that animal in their most holyplace, by whose indication it was that they had escaped theirwandering condition and their thirst.5 They sacrifice rams, by way of reproach, to [Jupiter Ham足 1 This believing in Moses as in a celestial leader, seems a blind confessionof Tacitus that Moses professed to have his laws from God. a This looks also like a plain confession of Tacitus, that Moses brought theJews water out of a rock in grcat plenty, which he might have from Jose-phus, Antiq. b. iii. ch. i. sect. 7. s Strange indeed ! that 0(10,000 men should travel above 200 miles overthe deserts of Arabia in six days, and conquer Judea the seventh. * This is not true in general, but only so far, that the Israelites were bycircumcision and other rites to be kept separate from the wicked and idola足trous nations about them. 6 This strange story contradicts what the same Tacitus will tell us pre足sently, that when Pompey went into the holy of holies he found no imagathere.