OCR Output 196 THE FELOPONNESIAN WAR. near the place from whence they had pursued this victory.They took up their dead, and the shattered pieces of theirships, whatever they found on their own coasts, and by a trucegave permission to the Peloponnesians to fetch off theirs. The Peloponnesians also erected a trophy, in token of avictory gained by forcing ashore and damaging some of theenemy's ships. The ship they took they consecrated on theRhium of Achaia, near their trophy. Yet, after this, beingin some dread of the reinforcement expected from Athens,all of them, except the Leucadians, sailed away by favourof the night into the gulf of Crissa and Corinth. The Athe­nians, in the twenty ships from Crete, that ought to havebeen up with Phormio before the engagement, not long afterthe above retreat of the other ships, arrived at Naupactus.And here this summer ended. Before the separation of the fleet that withdrew intoCorinth and the gulf of Crissa, Cnemus, Brasidas, and theother commanders of the Peloponnesians, by the advice ofthe Megareans, formed a design, in the beginning of thiswinter, to make an attempt on the Piraeus, the haven of theAthenians. It was not guarded or secured in the usualmanner; nor was this judged requisite, as the naval powerof Athens was become so extensive. Their project was, thatevery mariner carrying with him an oar, a cushion, and aleathern thong, should march over-land from Corinth, tothe sea on which Athens is situated, and that making thebest of their way to Megara, and drawing out the forty shipsthat lay there in the Nisaean dock, they should immediatelystand into the Piraeus. For there was not so much as oneship appointed to its guard ; nor was there the least suspicionat Athens that the enemy would attempt in this manner tosurprise them : For, openly, and in a regular train, theydurst not attempt it; nor could a project which requireddeliberate procedure have escaped discovery. But no soonerbad they resolved upon, than they set out to execute thepresent scheme. Arriving in the night, they drew the ships