OCR Output TinuR. 12fl.l TIBUR. ml ky; and the remains at the cathedral may havetloocnl to a third. It is pretty certain, however,ill the Koran) of Tibur was near the cathedral, andrgpied the aite of the present Piazza dell Ormoud its environs, as appears from a Ball of Popemoiict VII. in the year 978, referred to byditllt in his llalia Sacra (t. i. p. 1306). and co­rd by Marini (Paperi Diplomatic!, p. 316). Inii>. Hull, the object of which was to determine thethis and jurisdiction of the bishop of Tivoli, many«ra in Ike town are mentioned by their ancientimts: as the Forum, the Vicus Fatricius, the Ku-lAu, the Porta Major, the Porta Obscura, the walls,e patrrn of Vesta, the district of Castrmn Vetus,r The round temple at the cathedral belongedtrrfote to the Forum, as well as the crypto-por-mi, now called Porto di Ercole in the street del*ffio. The exterior of this presents ten closedelm about 200 feet in length, which still retainof the red plaster with which they were co­red. Each arch has three loopholes to serve asnuVwt. The interior is divided into two apart-lots or halls, by a row of twenty-eight slenderkrs. Traces of arabesque painting on a blackiund may still be seen. The mode of buildingiws it to be of the same period as the circularmint. la that part of the city called Castro Vetere,ic.'i Xibby identifies with the arx, are two temples,roand, the other oblong, both of which liave 0 variously identified. The round one, a charm-rWic of antiquity, is commonly regarded as the.pie of the Sibyl. We know that the tenth and: of the Sibyls, whose name was Albnnen, was>Jiipf«d at Tibur (Varro, ap. Lactant. de Falsa11. 6; cf. Jeifdn; tj Titvvprta vvouan 'AAffou-a. Said, p. 3302 Gaisf.); and Horace evidentlyi<irs to her when lie speaks of the " domus Albu-r retonantia" at that place. (Od. \. 7.12.) It canreely be doubted therefore that she had a fane atur. Bat Kibby is of opinion that the epithet of"onsutis," which alludes to the noise of the wa-*U, is inapplicable to the situation of the roundpie on the cliff ; for though it immediately over- 1 the fall, before the recent diversion of the stream,cataract, as before shown, must in the time ofsee have been lower down the river. This ob-i n Inwever, may perhaps be considered as pressingwiical epithet rather too closely; nor is therething to show how far the fall may have been<vrd by the catastrophe described by the youngery. Some writers have ascribed the temple tota, an opinion which has two circumstances in itsur: first, we know that Vesta was worshippedTiber, from inscriptions recording the Vestalins of the Tiburtini; secondly, the temples ofI were roan J. like the celebrated one near the-an forum. Unfortunately, however, for this•thesis, the Bull of Pope Benedict before referredww j that the district of Vesta was on the op-it side of the river. Hence Nibby (Dintomi,■ 205) regards the building in question as the« of Hercules Saxanus. We know that round4es were sometimes erected to that deity, as in them Boarium at Rome; and the epithet of Saxanusj4.rable tu the one in question, from its beingseatedrock. It may be observed, however, that Saxanus-t a usual derivative form from Saxum; and on•bate it may perhaps be as satisfactory to followla.irnl tradition which ascribes the temple to theL It ia of the style called peripteral, or hav­ ing columns all round. These were originallyeighteen in number, but only ten now remain, ofwhich seven are isolated and three are built into thewall of a modem structure; but in such a mannerthat the sides towards the cell are visible. Thecolumns are of travertine, of the Corinthian order,and channelled; hence the temple bears considerableresemblance to that in the Forum Boarium at ltome.According to the Bull before quoted, it was, in the10th century, a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary. The same was the case with the adjoining temple,which was dedicated to S. George. This buildingis also principally of travertino. It has four columnsin front, now hidden by modern houses, and six ateach side, five of which are built into the walls of thecells to the extent of two-thirds of their circum­ference. Hence it was of the style called prostylostetrastylos pseudo-periuteros. The columns are ofthe Ionic order. From an inscription found near it,some writers have inferred that the temple was de­dicated to the worship of Drusilla, the sister of Ca­ligula: but the style of building is considerablyearlier, and belongs to the age of Sulla. Others havecalled it the temple of the SibyL Professor Kibby(Diatorni, iii. p. 210) started a novel hypothesis,and regarded it as the temple of Tiburtus, or Ti-bumus. It is certain that the eponymous founderof the city enjoyed divine honours in it, as we seefrom Horace ('•• Tibnmi lucus," Od. i. 7. 13) andStatins (" ilia reenbat Tibumus in umbra," Heir. i. 3.74). But these expressions refer to a sarred groveor revivor, probably with a shrine, or perhaps merelyan altar, and therefore situated, in all likelihood, inthe outskirts of the town, and not in a narrow crowdedplace like the arx. And we must here point out alittle inconsistency into which the learned professorhas fallen: for whilst he objects to the roundtemple being called that of Vesta, on the ground thatit was not within hearing of the waterfall, when thatwas in its ancient state, yet be regards the squareone, which immediately adjoins it, as the templeof Tihumus, because it was close to the cataract.On the whole, therefore, we must for the presentcontent ourselves with one of the ancient names forthis building, or else, which may perhaps be thesafer course, leave it altogether unidentified. The catastrophe of 1826 brought to light the re­mains of a bridge; and another still more perfectone was discovered in 1832, in the progress of theworks for diverting the course of the river. At lliesame time the workmen came upon a small tomb,between the Via Valeria and the banks of the river,containing several skeletons and monumental stones.Among these was a cenotaph to Senecio, who wasconsul for the fourth time A. D. 107, and severalinscriptions. Under this tomb was an ancient aque­duct, intended to distribute the waters of the Auioamong the adjacent villas. There are no other remains in the town exceptsome fine opus reticulatutn et Uterinum, near thechurch of S. Andrea. At this spot were discovered,in 1778, some large and handsome columns withCorinthian capitals, and also the pedestal of a statueto Fur. Maecius Graccus, with an inscription con­necting it with some embellishment of the baths.Hence we may conclude that the thermae were si­tuated here. Outside the city, on the Via Constantiana, is thebuilding known as the temple of Tussis, for whichappellation, however, no authority exjata. Kxtern-nlly it is of an octagon form, but round inside. 4 II 2