OCR Output o48 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. is right.-' And when such have been theiractions, how is it possible they can either livesecurely in common life, or be successful inwar? In my opinion this is impossible. Butperhaps some will say, that what is holy, andwhat is righteous, is indeed on our side; butthat the Arabians are either more courageous,or more numerous than we are. Now as tothis in the first place, it is not fit for us to sayso; for with whom is what is righteous, withthem is God himself. Now where God is,there are both multitude and courage. Butto examine our own circumstances a little;we were conquerors in the first battle; andwhen we fought again they were not able tooppose us, but ran away; and could not en­dure our attacks, or our courage. But whenwe had conquered them, then came Athe-nion, and made war against us without de­claring it. And pray is this an instance oftheir manhood? or is it not a second instanceof their wickedness and treachery? Whyare we therefore of less courage, on accountof that which ought to inspire us with strongerhopes? And why are we terrified at those,who, when they fight upon the level, arecontinually beaten; and when they seem tobe conquerors, they gain it by wickedness?And if we suppose that any one should deemthem to be men of real courage, will not hebe excited by that very consideration to dohis utmost against them? For true valour isnot shewn by fighting against weak persons,but in being able to overcome the mosthardy. But then, if the distress we are our­selves under, and the miseries that have comeby the earthquake, have affrighted any one;let him consider, in the first place, that thisvery thing will deceive the Arabians; bytheir supposal that what hath befallen us isgreater than it really is. Moreover, it is notright that the same thing that emboldensthem, should discourage us. For these men,you see, do not derive their alacrity from anyadvantageous virtue of their own; but fromtheir hope, as to us, that we are quite cast down by our misfortunes. But when weboldly march against them, we shall soon pulldown their insolent conceit of themselves;and shall gain this by attacking them, thatthey will not be so insolent when we come tothe battle. For our distresses are not sogreat, nor is what hath happened an indigna­tion of the anger of God against us; as someimagine. For such things are accidental, andadversities that come in the usual course ofthings. And if we allow that this was doneby the will of God, we must allow that it isnow over by his will also; and that he issatisfied with what hath already happened.For had he been willing to afflict us still morethereby, he had not changed his mind sosoon. And as for the war we are engagedin, he hath himself demonstrated, that he iswilling it should go on; and that he knowsit to be a just war. For while some of thepeople in the country have perished, all youwho were in arms have suffered nothing; butare all preserved alive. Hence God makesit plain to us, that if you had universally,with your wives and children, been in thearmy, it had come to pass that you had notundergone any thing that would have muchhurt you. Consider these things; and, whatis more than all the rest, that you have Godat all times for your protector; and prosecutethese men with a just bravery, who in pointof friendship are unjust; in their battles per­fidious; towards ambassadors impious; andalways inferior to you in valour." i When the Jews heard this speech, theirminds were animated, and more disposed tofight than before. So Herod, when he had*offered the sacrifices appointed by the law,made haste, and took them, and led themagainst the Arabians: and in order to thatpassed over Jordan; and pitched his campnear to that of the enemy. He also thoughtfit to seize upon a certain castle, that lay inthe midst of them; as hoping it would be forhis advantage, and would the sooner producea battle; and, that if there were occasion for * This piece of religion, the supplicating God with sa­crifices, by Herod, before he went to this fight with theArabians; taken notice of also in the first book of the war,chap. 19. is worth remarking: because it is the only ex­ample of this nature, so far as I remember, that Josephusever mentions in all his particular accounts of this Herod.And it was when he had been in great distress, and dis­couraged by a defeat of his former army, and by a very great earthquake in Judea. Such times of affliction ma­king men most religious. Nor was he disappointed of hishopes here; but immediately gained a most signal victoryover the Arabians. While they who just before had beenso great victors, and so much elevated upon the earth­quake in Judea, as to venture to slay the Jewish ambassa­dors; were now under a strange consternation, and hardlyable to fight at all.