OCR Output VELLA. VELIA. 1267 palliation of the inhabitants of that city in order toavoid falling under the Persian yoke, at the time ofthe cononest of Ionia by Harpagus, n. c. 544. TheI'hocaean emigrants proceeded in a body to Corsica,where they had already founded the colony of Alaliaabout 20 years before; and in the first instanceestablished themselves in that island, but, havingprovoked the enmity of the Tyrrhenians and Cartha­ginians by their piracies, they sustained such severeloss in a naval action with the combined fleets ofthese two powers, that they found themselves com­pelled to abandon tho colony. A part of the emi­grants then repaired to Massilia (which was also aI'hocaean colony), while the remainder, after a tem­porary halt at Rhegium, proceeded to found the newcolony of Hyele or Velia on the coast of Lucania.This is the account given by Herodotus (i. 164—167), with which that cited by Strabo from An-tiochus of Syracuse substantially agrees. (Strab.ri. p. 254.) Later writers have somewhat con­fused the narrative, and have represented the foun­dation of Massilia and Velia as contemporaneous (Hy­trin, op. A. GelL x. 16; Ammian. Marc. xv. 9. § 7);but there is no doubt that the account above given istbe correct one. Scylux alone represents Velia as acolony of Thurii. (Scyl. p. 4. § 12.) If this be notaltogether a mistake it must refer to the admissionat a later period of a body of fresh colonists fromthat dty; but of this we find no trace in any otherauthor. The exact date of the foundation of Veliacannot be determined, as we do not know how longthe Phocaeans remained in Corsica, but it may beplaced approximately at abont 540 n. c. There is no doubt that the settlers at Velia, likethose of the sister colony of Massilia, followed theexample of their parent city, and devoted themselvesa*siduou>ly to the cultivation of commerce; nor thatthe city itself quickly became a prosi*rous and flou­rishing place. Tho great abundance of the silvercoins of Velia still in existence, and which arc foundthroughout the S. of Italy, is in itself sufficient evi­dence of this fact; while the circumstance that itLvcame the seat of a celebrated school of philosophy,the leaders of which continued through successivefenerations to reside at Velia, proves that it mustf^avc been a place of much intellectual refinementand cultivation. But of its history we may be saidto know absolutely nothing. Strabo tells us that itwas remarkable for its good government, an advan-t-ipe for which it was partly indebted to l'armenides,who gave his fellow-citizens a code of laws whicht lie magistrates from year to year took an oath toobey. (Smb. ri. p. 2.>4; Diog. Lacrt. ix. 3. § 23.)Hut the obscure story concerning the death of Zeno,the disciple of l'armenides, who was put to de.ith bym tyrant named Nearchus or Diomedon, would seemTo ahow that it was not free from the same kind ofviolent interruptions by the rise of despotisms aswen common to most of the Greek cities, (I)iog.I.jtMt- ix. 5; Cic. Tutc. ii. 22.) Strabo also tells usthat the Kleans came off victorious in a contest withtiw Pcwidonians, but of the time and circumstancesiA this we are wholly ignorant; and he adds thatthey maintained their ground against the l.ucaniansalso. (Strab. lc) If this is correct they wouldiiave been one of the few Greek cities which pre-■.«-rved their national existence against those barba­rians, but their name is not found in the scantyhistorical notices that we possess of the wars be­tween the Lucaniana and the cities of MagnaBut the statement of Strabo is iu some degree confirmed by the fact that Velia was certainlyadmitted at an early period (though on what occa­sion we know not) to the alliance of Rome, andappears to have maintained very friendly relationswith that city. It was from thence, in commonwith Neapolis, that the Romans habitually derivedthe priestesses of Ceres, whose worship was of Greekorigin. (Cic.pro Balb. 24; Val. Max. i. 1. § I.)Cicero speaks of Velia as a well-known instance of a"foederata civitas," and we find it mentioned in theSecond Punic War as one of those which were boundby treaty to contribute their quota of ships to thoRoman fleet. (Cic. /. c.; Liv. xxvi. 39.) It even­tually received tho Roman franchise, apparently invirtue of the Lex Julia, B. c. 90. (Cic I. c.)Under the Roman government Velia continued to bea tolerably flourishing town, and seems to have beenfrom an early period noted for its mild and salu­brious climate Thus we are told that P. Aemi-lius was ordered to go there by his physicians for thebenefit of his health, and we find Horace makinginquiries about it as a substitute for liaiae. (Plut.Aemil. 39; Hor. F.p. i. 15. I.) Cicero's friend Tre-batius had a villa there, and the great orator him­self repeatedly touched there on his voyages alongtho coast of Italy. (Cic. Verr. ii. 40, v. 17, adFam. vii. 19, 20, ad A It. xvi. 6, 7.) It appears tohave been at this period still a place of some trade,and Strabo tells us that tbe poverty of the soil com­pelled the inhabitants to turn their attention tomaritime affairs and fisheries. (Strab. vi. p. 254.)It is probable that the same cause had in early timesco-operated with the national disposition of theI'hocaean settlers to direct their attention especiallyto maritime commerce. We hear nothing more ofVelia under the Roman Empire. Its name is fonndin I'liny and Ptolemy, but not in the Itineraries,which may, however, probably proceed from its se­cluded position. It is mentioned in the Liber Colo-niarum (p. 209) among the I'racl'ccturae of Lucania;and its continued existence as a municipal town isproved by inscriptions. (Mommsen, Inscrip. R. A*.190, App. p. 2.) It became an episcopal see in theearly ages of Christianity, and still retained thatdignity as late as the time of Gregory the Great(a. d. 599). It is probable that the final decay ofVelia, like that of Paestum, was owing to the ravagesof the Saracens in the 8th and 9th centuries. Thebishopric was united with that of Capacciii, whichhad succeeded to that of Paestum. (Mtinter, Ve/ia,pp. 69—73.) During the middle ages there grewup on the spot a fortress which was called VaslelC aMure delln lirucca, and which still serves to markthe site of the ancient city. The ruins of Velia are situated on a low ridge ofhill, which rises about a mile and a half from themouth of the river Alento (the ancient Hales), andhalf a mile from the coast, which here forms ashallow but spacious lay, between the headlandformed by the Monte delta Stella and tbe rockypoint of rurticrllo near Atcea. Tho mediaevalcastle and village of CastelT a Mart della Bntccaoccupy the point of this hill nearest the sea. Theoutline of the ancient walls may be traced at inter­vals round the hill for their whole extent. Their cir­cuit is not above two miles, and it is most likely thatthis was the old city or acropolis, and that in thedays of its prosperity it had considerable suburbs,especially in the direction of its port. It is probablethat this was an artificial basin, like that of Meta-pontum, and its site is in all probability marked by* 4 M 2