OCR Output 684 VYLVS. I'YLTTS. great harbour of jVtrrar/no. Upon this hypothesisCol. Leake observes, that in itself it is jierfoctlyadmissible, inasmuch as there is scarcely a situationin Greece on the tow coasts, near the mouths ofrivers, where, by the operation of waters salt orfresh, OT both united, some change has not takenplace since the times of ancient history; and thatin the present instance, then-fore, there is no greatdifficulty in imagining that the lagoon may be anancient harbour converted into a lagoon by an ac­cumulation of sand which has separated it fromthe sea. But, among the many difficulties whichbeset this hypothesis, there are two which seem quitefatal to it; one of which has been stated by Mr.Grote and the other by Col. Leake. The formerwriter remarks that, it* the peninsula of Old Sava-rino was the real ancient Sphacteria, it must havebeen a second island situated to the northward ofSphagia; and that, consequently, there must havebeen two islands close together and near the scene.This, as Mr. Grote observes, is quite inconsistentwith the narrative of Thucydides, which presup­poses that there was only one island—-Sphacteria,without any other near or adjoining to it. Thusthe Athenian fleet under Eurymedon, on first ar­riving, was obliged to go back some distance to theisland of Prote, because the island of Sphacteriawas full of Lacedaemonian hoplites (Thuc. iv. 13);whereas, if the hypothesis of I>r. Arnold were ad­mitted, there would have been nothing to preventthem from landing on Sphagia itself. It is truethat Xenophon (Hell, vi 2. ^ 3) speaks of "S^cryiaiin the plural, and that Pliny (iv. 12. s. 2">) mentions'* tres Sphagiae;** bnt two of them appear to havebeen mere rocks. The objection of Col. Leake isstill more fatal to I>r. Arnold's hypothesis. Hecalls attention to the fact that the French Coin-mission observed that the walls of the castle of OldNavarino stand in many parts on Hellenic founda­tions, and that in some places three courses of theancient work remain, consisting of a kind of ma­sonry which seem* greatly to resemble that of Mes-aene. Besides these remains of middle Hellenicantiquity, some foundations are traced of a moreancient inclosure at the northern end of the penin­sula, with a descent to the little harbour of YvUlh<>~K 'tHa by means of steps cut in the rock. Remainsof walls of early date are to be seen likewise towardsthe southern extremity of the hill, among which isa tumulus; — all tending to prove that the entirepeninsula of jXararino was occupied at a remoteperiod of history by an ancient city. This j^eniu-BuJa could not, therefore, have been the ancientSphacteria, which never contained any ancient town.The only way of reconciling the account of Thucy-dides with the present state of the coast is to sup­pose, with Mr. Grote and Cnrtius, that a greatchange lias taken place in the two pas-age* whichseparate Sphagitk from the mainland since the timeof Thucydides. The mainland to the south of A'n-rarino must have been much nearer than it is nowto the southern portion of Sphayia, while the north-em passage also must have been both narrower andclearer. (Leake. Mono, vol. i. p. 401, seq., Ptlo-poniw.tiaca, p. 190, seq.; Arnold, Apptndix to Thu-ctf'ii'/ts, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.; Grote, Greece, vol. vi.p. 427,seq.; Curtius, Ptlopotmesos, vol. ii. p. 173,seq.; Roblnye, Ih'cherches, p. 113; EjjwditionScientijujw de la Morcr, vol.i. pi. vii.) It is unnecessary to relate here the events whichfollowed the erection of the Athenian fort at Tylns, and which terminated with the caplore ftf tarSpartans in the island of Sphacterii. is ibey aw given in every Grecian history. The following e*»tract from Col. Leake illustrates the descriptive!rhncydides in the moat satisfactory manner; "Tatlevel and source of water in the middle where 1stLacedaemonians encamped,—the summit itnorthern end to which they retired, — theplaces on the western side, to which thebrought provisions, — are all perfectlyOf the fort, of loose and rude construsummit, it is not to be expected that anyshould now exist; but there are somesignal-tower of a later age on the same site,summit is a pile of rough rocks ending in tflit (dopes gradually to the shore on every *io>Tto the bar boor, where the cliffs arethough here just above the water there is sslope capable of admitting the passage of sbatfmen active in climbing among rocks andplaces. By this pass it is probable the >1came up.m the rear of the Lacedaemonians sa ■summit; for just at the southern term nut we at ■pass there is a passage through the clifla *!■border the greater part of the eastern threat misland, so that by this opening, and ahmg 1stunder the rocks to the northward of it, themans had the means of passing unseen treatcentre of the island to the rear of thenians on the summit. Though this hillgradually from its. rocky peak to the i\nm OBside except towards the harbour, it d>je» notof a landing at its foot, except in theweather; nor is it easily assailed on anyland, on account of the ruggedness of theexcept by the means to which the Me*sorted; so that the words of Thuoydidesit are perfectly accurate (Ik &aAao-<n;s anKal 4k tt]s yrjs ^kmttcl 4*iu.a\ov'). Theextremity of the island is rocky, steep, andof access, and forms a separate hill; inpart the ground slopes from the clirfa on thethe harbour to the western shore. whieJk, thairocky, is low; so that when the wea:her i* eaSis more easy in face of an opfmnent to Und, a^make way iuto the island on that sideeastern shore, where the cliffs admit of*access only in two places, one towards theend, the other in the middle of the inland,opening in the cliffs leads immediatelv iata I^Hlevel part of it; exactly in the opening stay]small church of the Fanaghuu There are-sismall creeks adjacent to each other, near theem end of the eastern side of the L-Und. mto Neokastro: near these civeks there as 1The principal source of water is toward* taafldie of the island, at an excavation in ther20 feet deep, which seems to be mor*than artificial; for below a shallow surfacein which there is a circular periston^ unamasonry, the excavation in the rock isslanting. In one or two places therehigh bushes, and there are low shrobe inof it. It often happens, as it did in tlstsummer of the Peloponnesian war, that acurring accidentally or of intention, clearsof the island during the droughts ofthe northern hill exhibits at thiamarks of a similar conflagration." f408, seq.) The peninsula of Coryphaaiiun is a