OCR Output an. 1769.] 51 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. / interpretation of his dreams; but when theyfesitated about them the king was so muchthe more disturbed. And now it was that thememory of Joseph's skill came into the mindof the king's cup-bearer, when he saw theconfusion Pharaoh was in; so he came andmentioned Joseph to him, as also the visionhe had seen in prison, and how the eventproved as he had said; as also that the chiefbaker was crucified on the very same day; andthat this also happened to him according tothe interpretation of Joseph: that Josephhimself was laid in bonds by Potiphar as aslave, but he said he was one of the noblestof the stock of the Hebrews, and that hisfather lived in great splendour. "If, there­fore," said he, " thou wilt send for him, andnot despise him on account of his misfortunes,thou wilt learn what thy dreams signify."The king, thereby, commanded that theyshould bring Joseph into his presence; andthose who received the command came andbrought him with them, having taken care ofhis habit, that it might be decent, as the kinghad enjoined them to do. The king took him by the hand, and said,"O young man, for my servant bears witnessthat thou art at present the best and mostskilful person I can consult with; vouchsafeme the same favours which thou bestowedon this servant of mine, and tell me whatevents are predicted by the visions of mydreams: and I desire thee to suppress nothingout of fear, nor to flatter me with lying words,or with what may please me, although thetruth should be of a melancholy nature. Itseemed to me that as I walked by the river,I saw kine fat and very large, seven in num­ber, going from the river to the marshes; andother kine of the same number like them met pretations of his dreams, made use of some, at least, if notall, these arts; and the jr.wish doctors would make lis be­lieve, that after several attempts of divers kinds, they cameat last to this exposition, that Pharaoh's daughters (for theysuppose him to have seven) should die, and that he shouldhave seven others born to him in their stead: but thisbeing not at all satisfactory to their master, put the cup­bearer in mind of Joseph's great abilities that way. LeQerc's and Patrick's Commentary. B. . * In Barhary one stalk of wheat, or barley, will some­times bear two ears, while each of these ears will ai oftenshoot out into a number of less ones, thereby affording amost plentiful increase. May not these large prolific ears,when seven are said to come upon one stalk, explain what voL. I.—No. 5. them out of the marshes, exceeding lean andill-favoured; which ate up the fat and largekine, and yet were no better than before, andnot less miserably pinched with famineAfter I had seen this vision I awoke out olmy sleep; but being in disorder, and con­sidering with myself what this appearanceshould be, I fell asleep again, and saw anotherdream much more wonderful than the fore­going, which did still more affright and dis­turb me.* I saw seven ears of corn growingout of one root, having their heads bornedown by the weight of the grains, and bend­ing down with the fruit, which was now ripe,and fit for reaping: and near these I sawseven other ears of corn, meagre and weakfor want of rain, which fell to eating and con­suming those that were fit for reaping, andput me into great astonishment." Joseph replied; "This dream, O king,although seen under two forms, signifies oneand the same event of things; for when thousawest the kine, which is an animal made forthe plough and for labour, devoured by thepoorer kine; and the cars of corn eaten upby the smaller ears, they foretel a famine,and want of the fruits of the earth for thesame number of years, and equal with thosewhen Egypt was in a happy state; and thisso far, that the plenty of these years will bespent in the same number of years of scarcity,and that scarcity of necessary provisions willbe very difficult to be corrected: as a signwhereof the ill-favoured kine, when they haddevoured the better sort, could not be satis­fied. But still God foreshows what is to comeupon men, not to grieve them, but that whenthey know it beforehand, they may, by pru­dence, make the actual experience of what isforetold the more tolerable. If thou there-is further mentioned of the seven fruitful years in Egypt,that is, that the earth brought forth by handfuls? This latter passage may, indeed, mean, that the earthbrought forth handfuls of stalks from single grains, and nothandfuls of ears from single stalks, agreeably to the following passage from Dr. Shaw: "In Barbary it is common tosee one grain produce ten or fifteen stalks. Even somegrains of the munvaany wheat, which I brought with meto Oxford, and sowed in the physic garden, threw out eachof them fiftv. Bnt Muzeratty, one of the late kaleefas, orviceroys, of the province of Tlemsan, brought once withhim to Algiers a root that yielded fourscore: telling us,that the prince of the western pilgrims sent once to thebashaw of Cairo one that yielded six score. Pliny mentionssome that bore three or four hundred." B. o