OCR Output 496 DISSERTATION II. David, the son of Abraham,* which highly deserves our ob­servation in this place: nor can we suppose that any thingelse than clear conviction that this command came from Godcould induce so good a man and so tender a father as Abra­ham was, to sacrifice his own beloved son, and to lose therebyall the comfort he received from him at present, and all theexpectation he had of a numerous and happy posterity fromhim hereafter. 4. That, long before the days of Abraham, the demons orheathen gods had required and received human sacrifices, andparticularly that of the offerer's own children, and this bothbefore and after the deluge. This practice had been indeedso long left off in Egypt, and the custom of sacrificing animalsthere was confined to so few kinds in the days of Herodotus,that he would not believe they had ever offered human sacri­fices at all, for he says :2 " That the fable, as if Hercules wassacrificed to Jupiter in Egypt, was feigned by the Greeks, whowere entirely unacquainted with the nature of the Egyptiansand their laws ; for how should they sacrifice men, with whomit is unlawful to sacrifice any brute beast ? (boars, and bulls,and pure calves, and ganders, only excepted.") However, itis evident from Sanchoniatho, Manetho, Pausanias, DiodorusSieulus, Philo, Plutarch, and Porphyry, that such sacrificeswere frequent both in Phoenicia and Egypt, and that longbefore the days of Abraham, as sir John Marsham and bishopCumberland have fully proved; nay, that in other places(though not in Egypt) this cruel practice continued long afterAbraham, and this till the very third, if not also to the fifthcentury of Christianity, before it was quite abolished. Takethe words of the original authors in English, as most of themoccur in their originals, in sir John Marsham's Chronicon,p. 76-78, 300-304. "3 Cronus offered up his only begotten son, as a burnt-offering, to his father Ourauus, when there was a famine anda pestilence." "4 Cronus, whom the Phoenicians name Israel [it shouldbe Il,"\ and who was after his death consecrated into the star i Matth. i. 1. * Ap. Marsh. Chron. p. 303. ' l'hilo. Bib ex Sanction, p. 76. 4 Philo. Bib. ex Sanchon. p. 77.