OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 283 quired and ama&sed, in consequence of their numeroustriumphs, the whole of this, together with the owners,is to become your property. Animated, then, by theprospect of so rich a spoil, take arms, with the favor ofthe gods. You have been hitherto employed in thepursuit of cattle through the waste mountains of Lusi-tania and Celtiberia, without any prospect of emolu­ment from so many toils and dangers. It is now timeto make profitable and rich campaigns ; and that, aftermeasuring such a length of way, through so manymountains and rivers, and so many armed nations, yoube at last abundantly rewarded for your labor. HereFortune has fixed the period of your toils; here, onyour finishing your course of service, will she giveyou ample retribution. And do not imagine the vic­tory to be as difficult as the character of the war isimportant. Often has a despised enemy maintained abloody contest, and renowned nations and kings beenvanquished by exertions of very moderate force : for,setting aside singly the present splendor of the Ro­man name, in what one particular are they to be com­pared with you? Not to mention your service, for thelast twenty years, performed with so great braveryand so great success, you have effected a march to thisplace from the pillars of Hercules, from the ocean, andthe remotest limits of the world ; opening your way,with your victorious arms, through so many of thefiercest nations of Spain and Gaul. You will nowfight with an army of raw troops, who during this verysummer were beaten, routed, and besieged by theGauls; who, as yet, neither know nor are known bytheir commanders. Ought I, if not born, at least edu­cated, in the very tent of that most illustrious generalmy father; I, who have subdued both Spain andGaul; the conqueror, likewise, not only of the Alpinetribes, but what is much more, of the Alps them­selves ; ought I to put myself in comparison with sucha commander as theirs; a general of six months'standing, who ran away from his own army; to whom,