OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. fleet and army into the Adriatic gulf. After suffering from the winds and wavesmuch loss and delay, the Greeks made their descent in the neighbourhood of Ra­venna: they threatened to depopulate the guilty capital, and to imitate, perhaps tosurpass, the example of Justinian II., who had chastised a former rebellion by thechoice and execution of fifty of the principal inhabitants. The women and clergy,in sackcloth and ashes, lay prostrate in prayer; the men were in arms for the de­fence of their country; the common danger had united the factions, and the eventof a battle was preferred to the slow miseries of a siege. In a hard-fought day, asthe two armies alternately yielded and advanced, a phantom was seen, a voice washe.ard, and Ravenna was victorious by the assurance of victory. The strangersretreated to their ships, but the populous sea-coast poured forth a multitude ofboats; the waters of the Po were so deeply infected with blood, that during sixyears, the public prejudice abstained from the fish of the river: and the institutionof an annual feast perpetuated the worship of images, and the abhorrence of theGreek tyrant. Amidst the triumph of the catholic arms, the Roman pontiff con­vened a synod of ninety-three bishops against the heresy of the Iconoclasts. Withtheir consent he pronounced a general excommunication against all who by wordor deed should attack the tradition of the fathers and the images of the saints; inthis sentence the emperor was tacitly involved,(l) but the vote of a last and hope­less remonstrance may seem to imply that the anathema was yet suspended overhis guilty head. No sooner had they confirmed their own safety, the worship ofimages, and the freedom of Rome and Italy, than the popes appear to have relaxedof their severity, and to have spared the relics of the Byzantine dominion. Theirmoderate counsels delayed and prevented the election of a new emperor, and theyexhorted the Italians not to separate from the body of the Roman monarchy. Theexarch was permitted to reside within the walls of Ravenna, a captive ratherthan a master; and till the imperial coronation of Charlemagne,"the government ofRome and Italy was exercised in the name of the successors of Constantine.(2) The liberty of Rome, which had been oppressed by the arms and arts of Au­gustus, was rescued, after seven hundred and fifty years of servitude, from thepersecution of Leo the IsaUrian. By the Cscsars, the triumphs, of the consuls hadbeen annihilated: in the decline and fall of the empire, the God Terminus, thesacred boundary, had insensibly receded from the ocean, the Rhine, the Danube,and the Euphrates; and Rome was reduced to her ancient territory from Viterboto Xerracina, and from Narni to the mouth of the Tiber. (3) When the kingswere banished, the republic reposed on the firm basis which had been founded bytheir wisdom and virtue. Their perpetual jurisdiction was divided between twoannual magistrates; the senate continued to exercise the powers of administrationand counsel; and the legislative authority was distributed in the assemblies of thepeople, by a well-proportioned scale of property and service. Ignorant of thearts of luxury, the primitive Romans had improved the science of governmentand war: the will of the community was absolute; the rights of individuals weresacred; one hundred and thirty thousand citizens were armed for defence orconquest; and a band of robbers and outlaws was moulded into a nation, deserv­ing of freedom, and ambitious of glory. (4) When the sovereignty of the Greekemperors was extinguished, the ruins of Rome presented the sad image of de­population and decay; her slavery was a habit, her liberty an accident; the ef­fect of superstition, and the object of her own amazement and terror. The lastvestige of the substance, or even the forms, of the constitution, was obliteratedfrom the practice and memory of the Romans; and they were devoid of knowledge,or virtue, again to build the fabric of a commonwealth. Their scanty remnant, (1) Yet Leo was undoubtedly comprised in the siquis imagtnum sacrartim destructor .... extiterit sit extorris a corpore I). N. Jesu Christi vel totius ecclesisc unitatc. The canonists may decide whetherthe guilt or the name constitutes the excommunicatiou; and the decision is of the last importance to their safe­ty, since, according to the oracle, (Gratian Caus. 23. p. 5. c. 47. apud Spanheim, Hist. Imag. p. 112.) homicidasnon esse qui excommunicato* trucidant. (2) Compescuit tale consilium Pontifex, sperans conversionem principis. (Anastas. p. 15ft.) Sed ne desiste-rent ab amore et fide R. J. admonehat (p. 1 *7.) The popes style Leo and Constantine Corpronymus, Impcra-tores et Domini, with the strange epithet of Piissimi. A famous mosaic of the Lateran (A. 0. 798.) repre­sents Christ, who delivers the keys to St. Peter and the banner to Constantine V. (Muraton, Annali d'ltalia,torn. vs. p. 337.) (3) I have traced the Roman duchy according to the maps, and the maps according to the excellent disserta­tion of father Baretti. (de Chorographia Italia; Medii *5>i.sect. 20. p. 216—232.) Yet I must nicely observe,that Viterbo is of Lombard foundation, (p. 211.) and that Terracina was usurped by the Greeks. (4) On the extent, population, &e. of the Roman kingdom, the reader may peruse with pleasure the ViscoursPrelimhmire to the RepubliqueRomaine of M. de Beaufort (torn. i.;) who will not be accused of too muchcredulity for the early ages of Rome.