OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 320. snap his fingers, to cast away his garments, and to leapand dance with real or affected transport.11 If a citizenpursued any stolen goods into a neighbour's house, heconcealed his nakedness with a linen towel, and hid hisface with a mask or basin, lest he should encounter theeyes of a virgin or a matron." In a civil action, theplaintiff touched the ear of his witness, seized his re­luctant adversary by the neck, and implored, in solemnlamentation, the aid of his fellow-citizens. The twocompetitors grasped each other's hand as if they stoodprepared for combat before the tribunal of the pras-tor: he commanded them to produce the object of thedispute; they went, they returned, with measured steps,and a clod of earth was cast at his feet to represent thefield for which they contended. This occult science ofthe words and actions of law was the inheritance of thepontiffs and the patricians. Like the Chaldean astrolo­gers, they announced to their clients the days of busi­ness and repose; these important trifles were interwovenwith the religion of Numa; and, after the publication ofthe twelve tables, the Roman people was still enslaved bythe ignorance of judicial proceedings. The treachery ofsome plebeian officers at length revealed the profitablemystery: in a more enlightened age, the legal actionswere derided and observed; and the same antiquitywhich sanctified the practice, obliterated the use andmeaning, of this primitive language.' A more liberal art was cultivated, however, by the Successionsages of Rome, who, in a stricter sense, may be COnSl- lawyers,dered as the authors of the civil law. The alteration of * Cicero (de Ofliciis, S. 19.) may state an Ideal case, hat St. Ambrose (de Officiis,S. 2.) appeals to the practice of his own times, which he understood as a lawyer and amagistrate. (Sclmlting ad Ulpian. Fragment, tit. 22. no. 28. p. 643, 644.) « The furtum lance licinqne conceptum was no longer understood in the time ofthe Antonines. (Aulus Gellius, 16. 10.) The Attio derivation of Heineocius (Auti-quitat. Hom. lib. 4. tit. 1. no. 13—21.) is supported by the evidenoe of Aristophanes,his scholiast, and Pollux. r In his oration for Murena, (c. 9—13.) Cicero tarns into ridicule the forms andmysteries of the civilians, which are represented with more candour by Aulus Collins,(Noot. Attic. 20. 10.) Gravina, (Opp. p. 265—267.) and Heineccius. (Antiquitat.lib. 4. tit. 6.) VOL. V. Z