OCR Output NISYBUS 441 NITBIAE. i f OS; Sffk. B. ». r.) It mlso bore the name oftrfcrt, <■ mount of its rocks of porphyry. Theuia > itoal circular, and ia only 80 stadia in•.i=afffwft; it ia aaid to have been formed by! *mU, with bii trident, knocking off a portion ofi i. ui throwing it upon the giant Polybotes.\nS.i.p.tV' L 6. §2: Paus. i. 2. §4; iwai.tdDim.Pmrg. 530, ad Horn. 11. ii. 676.)i ■. a>i is svidretly of volcanic origin, and wasfTtflwUr funned by volcanic eruptions of lava fromi niter, which in the end collapsed, leaving• xi top i kit itnngly impregnated with sulphur.TW htfbnt mooctain in the north-western part isIf / a«t m height; another, a little to the north-■j.-. j 1«00. sad a third in the south is 1700 feetBjl Tht hot springs of Nisyrus were known to-»I'mn'j, u veil as its quarries of millstonesat ill exelkat wine. The island has no good»>nr;h>t mar its north-western extremity it had,ainiiau, • tolerable roadstead, and there, on aasd bn, was situated the town of Nisyrus. The■at aotk still occupied by a little town, at a dis-nr^tbat JO minutes' walk from which there areremnants of the ancient acropolis,of mijhty walls of black trachyte, with•a** sftoj and gates. From the acropolis twowsia na down towards the sea, so as to embrace&f.»*town, which waa built in terraces on the■p a*tht ML Of the town itself, which possessed»»*>• ofPoseidon, very little now remains. Onat sat si the town is a plain, which anciently was • an mi was separated from the sea by a dike, ofaa aaaaraaa remains are still seen. The hot SB (baaa) still exist at a distance of about'a or i walk riat of the town. Stephanus B.kv 1 aettsaw another small town in the south-west'awra, tailed Argos, which still exists under its • ■' - ' a:. J irj ti.c nri^lilnmi'liiKA of whichapaa are constantly issuing from a chasm in ■ BO. ** wnrds the history of Nisyrus, it is said ori-<* have been inhabited by Carians, until■**•, a aa of Heracles, occupied the island■atZanaas, who were governed by the kings*» (Osatv. M; Horn. II ii. 676.) It is pos- ■ aa, (fur Agamemnon's return from Troy,■ aalffj in the inland, aa they did in Calymnus,■•aid account for the name of Argue occurring •lava; Herodotus (vii. 99), moreover, callsUofKisyrusEpidaurians. Subsequentlyhat aaat of its inhabitants during repeated*v tut the population was restored by in­fra Cos and Khodes settling in it. During•'"'as War, Nisyrus, together with Cos and^■as. was governed by queen Artemisia (Herod,tt la the tine of the Peloponnesian War it be-:. u» tributary allies of Athens, to which it»(«v loo drachmae every month: subsequentlyl^shevsrtorajqa Lacedaemonians; but after thean I Caidoa, m. c. 39*, Conon induced it toJ* wa» Sparta. (Diod. xiw. 84.) At a laterfc a »■> It a tune pmbably governed by the|aa» a* Ecypt. Throughout the historical■a u» iahaktants of Nisynis were Dorians; a''waa a attested by the inscriptions foundP aaai, all of which are composed in the Doricjac Aa excellent account of Nisyrus, which still■ :. \i(7tpor <■> Kicv^a. is found Has, itmr* auf dm Griech. /rutin, vol. ii. [L.S.] »lawn in tlie L=bnd of Caiuwtiius. NITAZI {It Ant. p. 144), NlTAXO (Geogr. Rav.ii. 17; Tab. Peut.), or Nitalis (It. Bieros. p. 576), atown in Cappadocia, on the road between Mocissusand Archelais, but its site is uncertain. [L. S.J N1TIOBKIGES (NiWutyryci), a people of Aqui-tania. In Pliny (iv. 19) the name Antobrogesoccurs: "rursus Narbonensi provineiae con terminiRuteni, Cadurci, Antobroges, Tarneque amne discretia Tolosanis Pctrocori." Tliere is no duubt thatAntobroges is an error, and that the true reading isNitiobroges or Kitiobriges. The termination brigesappears to be the same as that of the word Aliobroges. The chief town of the Nitiobriges, Aginnum(Agen), is mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 4), whoplaces them next to the Pctrocorii on one side, andto the Vasatii on the other. Strabo enumeratesthem between the Cadurci and the Petrocorii (Strafeiv. p. 190): "the Petrocorii, and next to them theNitiobriges, and Cadurci, and the Bituriges, who aitnamed Cubi." The position of the ISitiobriges i.sdetermined by these facts and by the site ofAginnum, to be on the Garonne, west of the Cadurciand south of the Petrocorii. D'Anville makes theirterritory extend beyond the then limits of the dioceseof Agen, and into the diocese of Condom. When Caesar (B. G. vii. 46) surprised the Galliin their encampment on the hill which is connectedwith the plateau of Gergovia, Teutomatus king ofthe Nitiobriges narrowly escaped being made pri­soner. The element Teut in this king's name is thoname of a Gallic deity, whom some authorities supposeto be the Gallic Mercurius ('.actant. De JalsuJielig.i. 21; and the Schol. on Lucan, i. -I •,."». ed. Ouden-dorp). Others have observed that it is the sameelement as Teut in the Teutonic language, and asDim, from whom the Galli pretended to spring (Pel-kratier, Hist, des Celtes, Liv. i. c. 14). The Nitio-briges sent 5000 men to the relief of Alesia when itwas blockaded by Caesar (B. G. vii. 75). [G. L.] N1TRA (Nirpa), a place which Ptolemy callsan ipxupiov, on the W. coast of Hindostdn, in theprovince of Limyrica. There can be no doubt thatit is the same as that called by Pliny Nitrias (vi23. s. 26), which he states was held by a colony ofpirates. The author of the Periplus speaks of a place,in this immediate neighbourhood, named ISaura,and which is, in all probability, the same as Kitrae.(Periph Mar. Erythr. § 58, ed. Miiller.) It ismobt likely the present Ilonaver. [V.] NITBIAE (NiTpfa., Strab. xvii. p. 803; Sozomen,H. aE.Ti.31; SocraU li. E. iv. 23; Steph. B.#. ».;Nl-rptanat, Ptol. W. 5. §25; Nitrariae, Plin. xxxi. 10. s.16: Eth. fiirplrr}s and NiTpuirrTjj), the Natron Lakes(Birket-el-Duarak)t were six in number, lying in avalley SW. of the Aegyptian Delta. The valley, whichis bounded by the limestone terrace which skins t Ledge of the Delta, runs in a NW. direction for about12 miles. The sands which stretch around theselakes were formerly the bed of the sea, and werestrongly impregnated with saline matter, e. g. mu­riate, sulphate, and carbonate of soda. lUin, thoughrare in Aegypt, falls in this region during thomonths of December, January, and February; and,con>equently, when the Nile is lowest, the lakes areat high water. The salt with which the sands areencrusted as with a thin coat of ice (Yitruv. viii. 3),is carried by the rains into the lakes, and held therein solution during the wet season. But in the sum­mer months a strong evaporation takes place, and aglaze or crust is deposited upon the surface and edgesof the water, which, when collected, is employed by