OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 189 deplorable state. They compared the fame and fortuneof Belisarius with the weakness of their ill-fated king;and the comparison suggested an extraordinary project,to which Vitiges, with apparent resignation, was com­pelled to acquiesce. Partition would ruin the strength,exile would disgrace the honour, of the nation ; but theyoffered their arms, their treasures, and the fortificationsof Ravenna, if Belisarius would disclaim the authority ofa master, accept the choice of the Goths, and assume,as he had deserved, the kingdom of Italy. If the falselustre of a diadem could have tempted the loyalty of afaithful subject, his prudence must have foreseen the in^constancy of the barbarians, and his rational ambitionwould prefer the safe and honourable station of a Romangeneral. Even the patience and seeming satisfactionwith which he entertained a proposal of treason, mightbe susceptible of a malignant interpretation. But thelieutenant of Justinian was conscious of his own recti­tude: he entered into a dark and crooked path, as itmight lead to the voluntary submission of the Goths;and his dexterous policy persuaded them that he was dis­posed to comply with their wishes, without engaging anoath or a promise for the performance of a treaty whichhe secretly abhorred. The day of the surrender of Ra­venna was stipulated by the Gothic ambassadors: a fleet,laden with provisions, sailed as a welcome guest into thedeepest recess of the harbour r the gates were opened to Subduesthe fancied king of Italy ; and Belisarius, without meet- kingdom"ing an enemy, triumphantly marched through the streets a/d^oof an impregnable city.q The Romans were astonished December,by their success; the multitude of tall and robust barba­rians were confounded by the image of their own pa­tience; and the masculine females, spitting in the facesof their sons and husbands, most bitterly reproached 1 Ravenna was taken, not in the 540, but in the latter end of 539; and Pagi (torn.2. p. 569.) is rectified by Muratori,(Annali d'ltalia, torn. 5. p. 62.) who proves, froman original act on papyrus, (Antiquit. Italia Medii jEvi, torn. 2. dissert. 32. p. 999—1007. Mafiei, Istoria Diplomat, p. 155—160.) that before the 3d of January, 540,peace and free correspondence were restored between Ravenna and Fnenza. _ .