OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 129 the south of the Phasis. Instead of being protected chap.by the valour, Colchos was insulted by the licentious- xxxv-ness, of foreign mercenaries; the benefits of com­merce were converted into base and vexatious mo­nopoly; and Gubazes, the native prince, was reducedto a pageant of royalty, by the superior influence ofthe officers of Justinian. Disappointed in their ex­pectations of Christian virtue, the indignant Lazi re­posed some confidence in the justice of an unbeliever.After a private assurance that their ambassador shouldnot be delivered to the Romans, they publicly solicitedthe friendship and aid of Chosroes. The sagaciousmonarch instantly discerned the use and importanceof Colchos; and meditated a plan of conquest, whichwas renewed at the end of a thousand years by ShahAbbas, the wisest and most powerful of his suc­cessors*. His ambition was fired by the hope oflaunching a Persian navy from the Phasis, of com­manding the trade and navigation of the Euxine sea,of desolating the coast of Pontus and Bithynia, ofdistressing, perhaps of attacking, Constantinople, andof persuading the Barbarians of Europe to second hisarms and counsels against the common enemy of man­kind. Under the pretence of a Scythian war, hesilently led his troops to the frontiers of Iberia; theColchian guides were prepared to conduct themthrough the woods and along the precipices of mountCaucasus; and a narrow path was laboriously formedinto a safe and spacious highway, for the march ofcavalry, and even of elephants, Gubazes laid hisperson and diadem at the feet of the king of Persia;his Colchians imitated the submission of their prince;and after the walls of Petra had been shaken, the • See the amusing letters of Pietro della Valle, the Roman traveller (Viaggi,tom. ii. 207- 209. 213. 215. 206. 286. 300. tom. iii. p. 54. 127). In the years1618, 1619, and 1620, he conversed with Shah Abbas, and strongly encourageda design which might have united Persia and Europe against their common enemy,the Turk. VOL. IV. K