OCR Output 338 THE DECLINE AND FALL armies: chap. penetrated so deeply into the old Dacia: yet theXXX1X- success of Priscus was transient and barren •, and hewas soon recalled, by the apprehension, that Baian,with dauntless spirit and recruited forces, was pre­paring to avenge his defeat under the walls of Con­stantinople *.state of The theory of war was not more familiar to the the Kenan ^ q£ Ca;sar ^ Trajan than to those of Justinian and Mauricet. The iron of Tuscany or Pontus stillreceived the keenest temper from the skill of the By­zantine workmen. The magazines were plentifullystored with every species of offensive and defensivearms. In the construction and use of ships, engines,and fortifications, the Barbarians admired the superioringenuity of a people whom they so often vanquishedin the field. The science of tactics, the order, evolu­tions, and stratagems of antiquity, was transcribedand studied in the books of the Greeks and Romans.But the solitude or degeneracy of the provinces couldno longer supply a race of men to handle thoseweapons, to guard those walls, to navigate thoseships, and to reduce the theory of war into bold andsuccessful practice. The genius of Belisarius andNarses had been formed without a master, and ex­pired without a disciple. Neither honour, nor pa­triotism, nor generous superstition, could animatethe lifeless bodies of slaves and strangers, who hadsucceeded to the honours of the legions: it was inthe camp alone that the emperor should have ex­ercised a despotic command; it was only in the • The general detail of the war against the Avars may be traced in the first,second, sixth, seventh, and eighth books of the History of the emperor Maurice,by Theophylact Simocatta. As he wrote in the reign of Heraclius, he had notemptation to flatter; but his want of judgment renders him diffuse in trifles andeoncise in the most interesting facts. f Maurice himself composed twelve books on the military art, which arestill extant, and have been published (Upsal, 1664) by John Scheffer atthe end of the Tactics of Arrian (Fabricius, Bibliot . Graeca, 1. iv. c . 8.tom. iii. p. 278), who promises to speak more fully of his work in its properplace.