OCR Output 368 THE DECLINE AND FALL of barbarians on the Roman territory 15. The brave and activeConstantius delivered Gaul from a very furious inroad of theAlemanni; and his victories of Langres and Vindonissa appearto have been actions of considerable danger and merit. As he tra足versed the open country with a feeble guard, he was encompassedon a sudden by the superior multitude of the enemy. He retreatedwith difficulty towards Langres; but, in the general consternation,the citizens refused to open their gates, and the wounded princewas drawn up the wall by the means of a rope. But on thenews of his distress, the Roman troops hastened from all fides tohis relief, and before the evening he had satisfied his honour andrevenge by the slaughter of six thousand Alemanni '6. From themonuments of those times, the memory of several other victoriesover the barbarians of Sarmatia and Germany might possibly becollected; but the tedious search would not be rewarded either withamusement or with instruction.Treatment os The conduct which the emperor Probus had adopted in the dis- tne barba- x * liant, pofal of the vanquistied, was imitated by Diocletian and his asso足 ciates. The captive barbarians, exchanging death for flavery,were distributed among the provincials, and assigned to those districts(in Gaul, the territories of Amiens, Beauvais, Cambray, Treves,Langres, and Troy es, are particularly specified '7) which had beendepopulated by the calamities of war. They were usefully em足ployed as shepherds and husbandmen, but were denied the exercise ofarms, except when it was found expedient to enrol them in themilitary service. Nor did the emperors refuse the property of lands,. with a less servile tenure, to such of the barbarians as solicitedthe protection of Rome. They granted a settlement to severalcolonies of the Carpi, the Bastarnae, and the Sarmatians; and, by adangerous indulgence, permitted them in some measure to retaintheir national manners and independence 5S. Among the pro足vincials, it was a subject of flattering exultation, that the barbarian, so