OCR Output 342 MESSENIA. MESSEKIA. were the Electra ('HA«Vrpa) and the CoEim(K ioi). Near Ithome the Balyra rewires theunited waters of the Lkccasia (AtvKturia) and theAmphitus ('A^(toi), of which the fonner flowsfrom the valley of Boguri, in a direction from N.to E., while the latter rises in Mt. Matrypldi, andflows through the plain from E. to VY. This river(the Amphitu*), which maybe regarded as the prin­cipal one, is formed out of two streams, of whichthe northern is the Charadrus (Kajxtopot). (Onthe Bilyra and its tributaries, see Pans. iv. 33.§§ 3—6.) The Balyra above the junction of theAmphitus and Leueasia is called Vtuililco, and be­low it Macruzumtno, though the latter name issometimes given to the river in its upper coursealso. At the junction of the Balyra and theAmphitus is a celebrated triangular bridge, knownby the name of the bridge of Mavrotimtno. It con­sists of three branches or arms meeting in » commoncentre, and corresponding to the three principalroads through the plain of Stenyclerus. The arm,running from north to south passes over no river,but only over the low swampy ground between thetwo streams. At the southern end of this arm,the two others branch off, one to the SW. over theBalyra, and the other to the SE. over the Amphitus,tho former leading to Messene and the other toThuria. The foundations of this bridge and theup]>er parts of the piers are ancient; and from theresemblance of their masonry to that of the neigh­bouring Messene, they may be presumed to belong tothe same period. The arches are entirely modem.The distance of this bridge from the Mcgalopolitangate of Messene agrees with the 30 stadia whichl'ansanias (iv. 33. § 3) assigns as the interval be­tween that gate and the Balyra; and as he saysimmediately afterwards that the Leucasia and Am­phitus there fall into the Balyra, there can be littledoubt tbat the bridge is the point to which Pausaniasproceeded from the gate. (Leake, Alorca, voL i.pp. 480, 481.) FLAN OP THE BRIDGE OF MAVRnZl'MEXO. The Marrozumeno, shortly after entering thelower plain, received on its left or western side aconsiderable stream, which the ancients regarded asthe genuine Pamisus. The sources of this river•re at a north-eastern corner of the plain near thechapel of .SI. /Wo, and at the foot of the ridge ofShnla. The position of these sources agrees suf­ficiently with the distances of l'ansanias (iv. 31.§ 4) and Strabo (viii. p. 361), of whom the fonnerwriter describes them as 40 stadia from Messene,while the latter assigns to the Pamisus a course ofonly 100 stadia. Between two and three milessouth of the sources of the Pamisus there risesanother river called Pidhinm, which flows SW. andfalls into the itarrvsumeno, lower down in the plain below Xui, and at no great distance from ti-esea. Aius ('A/mi) was the ancient name of tj«rUAima. (Paus. iv. 31. $ 3.) The Jfamn-meno, after the junction of the Pidhima, assumes th*name of Ithipotamo, or the double river, and isnavigable by small boats. Pausanias deacribes itas navigable 10 stadia from the sea. He further•ays that seafish ascend it, especially in the sprier,and that the mouth of the river is 80 stadia fromMessene (iv. 34. § 1). The other rivers of Measenia, with the excepts*of the Neda, which belongs to Arcadia also [Xeoa],are little more than mountain torrents. Of thesethe most important is the Neuor (NeoWr), not t» beconfounded with the above-mentioned Neda, (towinginto the Messenian gu If, east of the Pamisus, at Pherv.It rises in the mountains on the frontiers of Larooiaand Messenia, and is now called the river of Kala-muta: on it there was a town of the same name,and also a temple of Athena N'edusia. (Strab. rih.pp. 353, 360; Leake, Morea, vol. L pp. 344,345;Hoss,/tajentm/V//>;x>Rae«,p. 1.) The other mountaintorrents mentioned by name are the Bias (Bi«Xflowing into the western tide of the Messenian gaita little above Corone (Pans. iv. 34. § 4); and onthe coast of the Sicilian or Ionian sea. tha Scla*(Zs'Aat, Ptol. iii. 16. § 7), now the Longorarrlh*.a little S. of the island Protc, and the Cti'akusi s(Kktojjhto-oj), or river of Arkhadkia. [See Voi. Lp. 728.] 4. IslnntU.—TmcoAirrmA (Oirya»tfi«go'a), dwVenetiko, distant 37(H) feet from the southern pointof the promontory Acritas, ia called by PaumnUsa desert island ; but it appears to hare been in­habited at some period, as graves hare been foundthere, and rains near a fountain. (Paus. ir.34. § IS;&T\varyov<ra or &tvayov<ra, Ptol. iii. 16. § 23;Plin. iv. 12. s. 19. § 56; Curtius, Pehpomme**, vol.ii. p. 172.) West of Theganussa is a group ofislands called Okncssak (Olrovaaat), of which thttwo largest are now called Cabrera (by the Greeks2x'Ca) ana* Sapienza. They are valuable f-*r lb*pasture which they afford to cattle and horses in thespring. On the eastern side of Sapieuen there » awell protected harbour; and here are found citternsand other remains of an ancient settlement. (Paus.iv. 34. § 12; Plin. iv. 12.s. 19. § 55; Leake, voLi.p. 433; Curtius, vol. ii. p. 172.) On the wratancoast was the island of SriiAiTKRiA, oppoaite theharbour of Pylcs; and further north the smallisland of Pkotk (fl^wr^), which still retains itsancient name. (Thuc. iv. 13; Plin. iv. 12. a. 19.§ 55; Mela, ii. 7; Steph. B. t. r.) III. HaSTOHT. The enrliestinhabitan'sof Messenia are said tohar*been Lelege.n. Polvcaon, the younger son of LeWx,the king of Laronia, married the Arrive Mrwete,and took possession of the country, whirh he namedafter his wife. He built several towns, and iothers Andania, where b** took up his(Paus. L 1.) At the end of fire grneratlints A>>4ian«came into the country under Perieres, a son of Aet-Oua.He was succeeded by his son Apharru*. whofounded Arene, and received the Aeolian Nrlrus,a fugitive from Thessaly. Neleus founder! Pjlos,and his descendants reigned here over th** wes­tern coast. (Paus. i. 2.) On the extinrtion at thefamily of Aphareus, the eastern half of Mewrmawas united with 1-aconia, and came under the «m»>rcignty of the Atridae; while the western half cue-­