OCR Output PALAESTINA. PALAESTINA. Jordan vnd die Besckifiung des Todten Mceres* einVorlrag, tfc, 1850. The original documents, fromwhich these are chiefly compiled, are:—Comte deBerton, in the Bulletin de la Soc. Geog. de Paris,tijin. xii. 18."i9, pp. 166, &c, with chart; Kussegger,Jieisen in Eitropa, Asian, Afrika, &c, vol. Hi. Stutt­gart. 1847, pp. 102—109, 132—134; Herr vonWildcnbruch, Monatsherichte de GetelUchaft fur£rdhmde zu Berlin, 1845, 1846.) IV. The Dead Ska. Of all tin? natural phaenomena of Palestine, theIk-ad Sea is that which has most attracted the noticeof geographers and naturalists both in ancient andmodern times, as exhibiting peculiarities and sug­gesting questions of great interest in a geologicalpoint of view. Xauies.—The earliest allusion to this sea, which,according to the prevailing theory, refers to its ori­ginal formation, is found in the book of Genesis(xiv. 3), where it is identified with the vale "ofSiddim," and denominated ''the Salt Sea" (7) 3a-Aaatja. TWV a\u>v, LXX.); comp. Numb, xxxiv.3, 12); which Suit Sea is elsewhere identified with"the sen of the plain'' (Dcut. iii. 17, iv. 40; Josh.iii. 16, xii. 3), SaAaarra "A^a^ci, LXX.; t ailed by theprophets Joel (ii. 2l»). Zuehariah (xiv. 8), and K/.e-kiel (xlvii. 18), the "former," or "eastern sea."Its common name among the classical authors, firstfound in Diodorus Siculus (inf. cit.), and adopted byJoseph us, is '' Asphaltitis Lacus" (aaQaAriTisAfV'T))' or simply i; 'At^oAt'itii. The name bywhich it is best known among Eun>|>cans has theauthority of Justin (xxxvi. 3. § 6) and Pausanias(v. 7. § 4), who call it ftdXaaaa j) vtKpd, " MortuumMare." Its modern native name is liahr Lit,"the Sea of Lot,"—therein jH'rpetuating tho me­morial of the catastrophe to which it may owe itsformation, or by which it is certain that its featureswere considerably altered and modified. The nameassigned it by Strabo must be referred to a slip ofthe author; for it is too much to assume with Fal­coner that the geographer had written 2o5iSutjs\iujt), when all the copies read SfpsWts A. So copious are the mt>derii notices of this remark­able inland sea, that it would be vain to attempteven an abridgment of them; and the necessity lordoing so is in great measure superseded by the latesuccessful surveying expedition, conducted by Lieut.Lynch of the American navy, whose published nar­rative lias set at rest many questions connectedwith its physical formation. The principal ancientwriters will be quoted in detail and in chrono­logical order, that it may appear how far they haveborrowed one from another, or may be regarded asindependent witnesses. Their notices will then besubstantiated or controverted by modem writers. Thequestions relating to the formation of the sea, itsvolcanic origin, and the other igneous phaenomenaiu the country, wiil be reserved for anuther chap­ter. The earliest extant writer who has noticed at anylength the marvels of the Dead Sea, is DiodorusSiculus (b. u. 45), who has twice described it; firstin his geographical survey of the country (ii. 48),and subsequently in his account of the expeditionof Demetrius against the Nabataei (xix. 98), towhich last account a few particulars are added,which were omitted in the earlier book. "We ought not to i>aNs over the character of lidslake (Asphaltites) unmentioncd. It is situated in the midst of the satrapy of Idunmea, in n-tending about 500 stadia, and in breadth il>iu: (&Its water is very salt, and of an extrerrelT &,u< asmell, so that neither fish nor any of tlw «ssordinary marine animals can live in it: andii:b-.ngreat rivers remarkable for their sw«:nr>s r.%into it, yet by its smell it counteract* tbeirFrom the centre of it there rises ererr year i Ur?mass of solid bitumen, sometimes more than '.plethra in size, sometimes a little less tha* toplethrum.* For this reason the neigliU^unns abarians usually call the greater, bull, and the lewcalf. The bitumen floating on the surtarecf uwater appears at a distance like an island. "Dtime of the rising of the bitumen is known *lwtwenty days before it takes place; for aroor-d Ulake to the distance of several stadia the srr,til ■the bitumen spreads with a noxious air, and slit!stiver, gold, and brass in the neighbourhuui lcseaiproper colour; which, however, returns again u was all the bitumen is ejected. The fire which baebeneath the ground and the stench reiser the ihabitants of the neighbouring country sickly tvery short-lived. It is nevertheless wt-11 fitted Ithe cultivation of palms, wherever it is traversedserviceable rivers or fountains available for tlw piposes of irrigation. In a neighbouring vaiWTthe plant called balsam, which yields an abaaiincome, as the plant grows in no other pan ct Iworld, and it is much used by physician ■medicine. "The bitumen which rises to the surface i* iried off by the inhabitants of both sides of lb* awho are hostilely inclined towards each other. 11carry away the bitumen in a singular manner *iout boats: they construct large rafts of reeds, «fthey launch into the lake. Upon each of thesemore than three can sit, two of whom row wim <attached to the raft, and the third, armed witbow, drives off those who are sailing up froaopposite side, or who venture to use violence;when they come near to the bitumen they leai twith axes in their hands, and. cutting it iik*stone, they lade their raft, and then return. Uraft break and any one fall off. even though be:be unable to swim, he does not bink aa is dwater, but floats as well as one who couidfor this water naturally supports any weight aqof expansion, or which contains air. but do4 isubstances, which have a density like that <rf |silver, and lead, and the like; but ever tsink much more slowly in this water tfcaawould if they were thrown into any other IThis source of wealth the barbarians powersthey transport it into Egypt and there sell it $flpurposes of embalming the dead ; for nnte*bitumen is mixed with the other spices, lbs 'Jwill not long remain undecayed.'* It has tx*en mentioned that Straho (or. i14) describes it under the name of Sirfcuoi* lia palpable confusion, as regards the name. w*tisalt lake on the eastern confines oi" Kgypi [i*MLacus], as is evident faun his, statement tlstretched along the sea-coast, as weil sa ir%alength which he assigns it, corresjojtding a* awith the 200 stadia given by l>iodoro* Son)the length of the true Sirbonis Laraa, whr=L<author properly places between CoriesTT.% * In book ii he Bays the smaller ma^es tico plethra iu size.