OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 289 were terminated. Much I dread lest you quickly feelthat the subject of your tears this day is the lightest ofyour misfortunes.' Such were Hannibal's sentimentswhich he delivered to the Carthaginians. Scipio, hav­ing called an assembly, bestowed on Masinissa, in ad­dition to his paternal kingdom, the city of Cirtha, andthe other cities and lands belonging to the territoriesof Syphax, which had fallen into the hands of the Ro­man people. He ordered Cneius Octavius to conductthe fleet to Sicily, and deliver it to the consul CneinsCornelius; and the ambassadors of the Carthaginiansto go to Rome, in order that the terms stipulated forby him might be ratified by the authority of the senateand the order of the people. 45. Peace being established by sea and land, he em­barked his army, and carried it over to Lilybasum inSicily; and from thence, sending a great part of histroops round by sea, he himself landed in Italy. Ashe proceeded through the country, he found it no lessdelighted at finding there was an end to the war, thanat the success in it; not only the inhabitants of thecities pouring out to show their respect to him, butcrowds of the country-people also filling up the roads:and thus he arrived at Rome, where he entered thecity in the most splendid triumph which had ever beenbeheld. He carried into the treasury a hundred andtwenty-three thousand pounds weight of silver, andout of the spoil distributed to each of his soldiers fourhundred asses.i The death of Syphax caused somediminution in the splendor of the show, but none inthe glory of the general who triumphed. He died ashort time before at Tibur, to which place he had beenremoved from Alba. His death, however, made somenoise, for he was honored with a public funeral. Po-lybius, a writer of no contemptible authority, assertsthat this king was led in triumph. Quintus TerentiusCulleo followed Scipio in his triumph, with a cap on hishead ;s and through his whole life after, as became him, i 11.5s. lOd. 2 The symbol of liberty. LIV. VOL. V. T