OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 147 men, that king Agrippa had been once bound in a chain for asmall cause, but recovered his former dignity again ; and a littlewhile afterward got out of his bonds, and was advanced to be amore illustrious king than he was before. Whence men may un­derstand, that all that partake of human nature, how great soeverthey are, may fall; and that those that fall may gain their for­mer illustrious dignity again. 2. And when Agrippa had entirely finished all the duties ofthe divine worship, he removed Theophilus, the son of Ananus,from the high«priesthood, and bestowed that honour of his on Si­mon, the son of Boethus, whose name was also Cantheras, whosedaughter king Herod had married, as I have related above. Si­mon, therefore, had the [high] priesthood with his brethren, andwith his father, in like manner as the sons of Simon, the son ofOnias, who were three, had it formerly under the government ofthe Macedonians, as we have related in a former book. 3. When the king had settled the high-priesthood after thismanner, he returned the kindness which the inhabitants of Jeru­salem had shewed him ; for he released them from the tax uponhouses, every one of which paid it before, thinking it a goodthing to requite the tender affection of those that loved him. Healso made Silus the general of his forces, as a man who had par­taken with him in many of his troubles. But after a very littlewhile the young men of Doris, preferring a rash attempt be­fore piety, and being naturally bold and insolent, carried a statueof Ca'sar into a synagogue of the Jews, and erected it there. Thisprocedure of theirs greatly provoked Agrippa 5 for it plainlytended to the dissolution of the laws of his country. So he camewithout delay to Publius Petronius, who was then president ofSyria, and accused the people of Doris. Nor did he less resentwhat was done than did Agrippa ; for he judged it a piece ofimpiety to transgress the laws that regulate the actions of men.So he wrote the following letter to the people of Doris in an an­gry strain : " Publius Petronius, the president under Tiberius'' Claudius Caesar Augustus, Germanicus, to the magistrates of" Doris, ordains as follows .• Since some of you have had the" boldness, or madness rather, after the edict of Claudius Csesar" Augustus Germanicus was published, for permitting the Jews" to observe the laws of their country, not to obey the same," have acted in entire opposition thereto, as forbidchng the Jews" to assemble together in the synagogue, by removing Caesar's" statue, and setting it up therein, and thereby have offended" not only the Jews, but the emperor himself, whose statue is" more commodiously placed in his own temple, than in a fo-" reign one, where is the place of assembling together; while T2 ' " "it