OCR Output On the Life of Thucydides. the laws to take his exercise in the study of arms, and tobegin to share in the defence of his country. Every citizenof Athens was also a soldier. They served at first within thewalls, or on great emergencies marched, though to no greatdistance from home. As years and skill advanced, theywere called upon to join in more distant and foreign expe­ditions. We are quite in the dark about the particular ser­vices, in which he might thus be employed. We are sureat least he much improved in the theory of arms. He qua­lified himself for the great trust of heading the forces of theState i and, in the sequel, we shall Bee him invested with acommand. The anonymous author of his life relates, that Thucydideswas one of the number, whom the Athenians sent to founda colony at Thuria in Italy. Lampo and Xenocritus werethe leaders of this colony, and Herodotus is said to havebeen associated in it. If Thucydides went the voyage, (andthe strange inconsistencies of him who relates it render hiswhole account suspiciousj he must have been about twenty-seven years of age. One thing is pretty certain; his stayat Thuria could have been of no very long continuance.This is not to be inferred from the ostracism, which the samewriter says he soon after suffered ; a mistake incurred, it ishighly probable, by confounding him with Thucydides theson of Milesias, who was of the same family, and being aleader in the oligarchical-party at Athens, had the ostracismthrown upon him by the interest and popularity of Pericles.But, the quarrel between the Corcyreans and Corinthiansabout Epidamnus broke out soon after this. The enemiesof Athens were now scheming the demolition of its growingpower. Thucydides writes all the preparatory transactions,marks all the defensive measures of the Athenians, as a per­son who was privy to every one of them. And there shouldbe very strong and very positive proofs of the contrary, be­fore any reader of his history doubts of his having been allthe time at Athens.