OCR Output 466 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ther, and to the nation of the Jews, sendethgreeting. We have sent you a copy of thatepistle which we have written to Lasthenes,our kinsman, that you may know its contents. "King Demetrius to Lasthenes our father,sendeth greeting. I have determined to re­turn thanks, and to shew favour to the nationof the Jews, which hath observed the rulesof justice in our concerns. Accordingly Iremit to them the three prefectures, Aphe-rime, Lydda, and Ramatha, which have beenadded to Judea out of Samaria, with theirappurtenances. As also what the kings mypredecessors received from those that offeredsacrifices in Jerusalem; and what are duefrom the fruits of the earth, and of the trees,and what else belongs to us; with the salt-pits, and the crowns that used to be presentedto us. Nor shall they be compelled to payany of these taxes from this time to all fu­turity. Take care therefore that a copy ofthis epistle be taken, and given to Jonathan;and be set up in an eminent place of theirholy temple." Now when Demetrius saw that there waspeace every where, and that there was nodanger, nor fear of war, he disbanded thegreatest part of his army, and diminishedtheir pay; and even retained in pay no othersthan such foreigners as came up with himfrom Crete, and from the other islands. How­ever, this procured him ill will and hatredfrom the soldiers; on whom he bestowednothing from this time; while the kings be­fore him used to pay them in times of peace,as they did before; that they might havetheir good will; and that they might be readyto undergo the difficulties of war, if occasionshould require it. CHAP. V. OF THE REVOLT OF TRYPHO, WHO, AFTER HE HAD DE­FEATED DEMETRIUS, DELIVERED THE KINGDOM TO ANTI-OCHUS, THE SON OF ALEXANDER, AND GAINED JONATHANFOR HIS ASSISTANT; AND CONCERNING THE ACTIONS ANDEMBASSIES OF JONATHAN. NOW there was a certain commander ofAlexander's forces, of Apamia by birth:his name was Diodotus, but he was also calledTrypho. This man took notice of the illwill the soldiers bare to Demetrius; and wentto Malchus, the Arabian, who brought up Antiochus, the son of Alexander; and toldhim what ill will the armies bare Demetrius;and persuaded him to give him Antiochus,because he would make him king, and re­cover to him the kingdom of his father. Mal­chus at first opposed him in this attempt, be­cause he could not believe him: but Tryphoover-persuaded him to comply with his in­tentions and intreaties. But Jonathan, the high-priest, being de­sirous to get clear of those that were in thecitadel of Jerusalem, and of the Jewish de­serters and wicked men, as well as of thosein all the garrisons in the country, sent pre­sents and ambassadors to Demetrius, andintreated him to take away his soldiers outof the strong holds of Judea. Demetrius madeanswer, that after the war, which he was nowdeeply engaged in, he would not only granthim that, but greater things also. And hedesired he would send him some assistance;and informed him that his army had desertedhim. So Jonathan chose out three thousandof his soldiers, and sent them to Demetrius. Now the people of Antioch hated Deme­trius; both on account of what mischief hehad himself done them; and because theywere his enemies also on account of his fatherDemetrius, who had greatly abused them.So they watched some opportunity, whichthey might lay hold on, to fall upon him.And when they were informed of the assist­ance that was coming to Demetrius fromJonathan, and considered at the same timethat he would raise a numerous army, unlessthey prevented him, and seized upon him;they took their weapons immediately, andencompassed his palace, in the way of asiege; and seizing upon all the ways of get­ting out, they sought to subdue their king.And when he saw that the people of Antiochwere become his bitter enemies, and thatthey were thus in arms, he took the merce­nary soldiers which he had with him, andthose Jews who were sent by Jonathan, andassaulted the Antiochians. But he was over­powered by their numbers, and was beaten.But when the Jews saw that the Antiochianswere superior, they went up to the top of thepalace, and shot at them from thence. Andbecause they were so remote from them bytheir height, that they suffered nothing ontheir side, but did great execution on the