OCR Output <Sa THEHISTORY BovO K had been expiated, that the anfwers of the prophets. -,'--• and the relponfes of the Pythian oracle were knownY.R. 359. to all, and that they had ufed the moft effectual meansB. C. 393. which human wifdom could fuggeft, for infuringfuccefs, in giving the command to Marcus Furius,the greateft general of the age; yet, as they had forfo many years experienced fuch a variety of fortunein that war, and had fuftained fo many lofies, theirjoy was as unbounded as if they had entertained nohopes of that event. And before the fenate pafiedany decree to the purpofe, every temple was filledwith the Roman matrons returning thanks to thegods. The fenate ordered fupplicatibns, for thefpace of four days, a longer term than had ever beenappointed in the cafe of any former war. The dicta­tor alfo on his arrival was more numeroufly attendedthan any general had ever been before; all rankspouring out to meet him, and the honours, conferredon him in his triumph, far furpafied the compliments• ufually paid on fuch occafions. He himfelf was themoft confpicuous object of all, riding through thecity in a chariot drawn by white horfes, which wasdeemed unbecoming, not to fay, a member of acommonwealth, but a human being; people deem­ing it an affront to religion, that the dictator fhouldemulate the equipage of Jupiter and Apollo; andon account, chiefly, of that fingle circumftance, his.triumph was more fplendid than pleafing. He thencontracted for the building of a temple to imperialJuno on the Aventine, and dedicated that of motherMatuta: after performing thefe fervices to the gods,and to mankind, he laid down his office of dictator.The offering to be made to Apollo came then un­der confide ration, and Camillus declaring that he hadvowed the tenth part of the fpoil to that ufe, and thepontiffs having given their opinion that the peopleought to difcharge that vow, it was found difficultto ftrike out a proper mode of ordering the peopleto refund the fpoil, in order that the due proportion might