OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 231 to the riches of the south. The three and thirty cam­paigns laboriously consumed in the woods and morassesof Germany, would have sufficed to assert the amplitudeof his title by the expulsion of the Greeks from Italyand the Saracens from Spain. The weakness of theGreeks would have ensured an easy victory: and theholy crusade against the Saracens would have beenprompted by glory and revenge, and loudly justified byreligion and policy. Perhaps, in his expeditions beyondthe Rhine and the Elbe, he aspired to save his monarchyfrom the fate of the Roman empire, to disarm the ene­mies of civilized society, and to eradicate the seed offuture emigrations. But it has been wisely observed,that in a light of precaution, all conquest must be in­effectual, unless it could be universal; since the increas­ing circle must be involved in a larger sphere of hosti­lity.2 The subjugation of Germany withdrew the veilwhich had so long concealed the continent or island ofScandinavia from the knowledge of Europe, and awaken­ed the torpid courage of their barbarous natives. Thefiercest of the Saxon idolaters escaped from the Christiantyrant to their brethren of the north; the ocean andMediterranean were covered with their piratical fleets;and Charlemagne beheld with a sigh the destructiveprogress of the Normans, who, in less than seventyyears, precipitated the fall of his race and monarchy.His sue- Had the pope and the Romans revived thecessom, primitive constitution, the titles of emperor and814—887, Augustus were conferred on Charlemagne for the term of his life; and his successors, on each; vacancy, must have ascended the throne by a formal or tacit election. But the association ofhis son Lewis the Pious asserts the independent rightof monarchy and conquest, and the emperor seems on 1 Gaillard, torn. 2. p. 361—365. 471—476. 494. I have borrowed his judiciousremarks on Charlemagne's plan of conquest, and the judicious distinction of hisenemies of Che first and the second enceinte, (torn. 2. p. 184.509, &c.)