OCR Output 266 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. Aretas was terrified, and retired out of Judea to Philadelphia, asdid Scaurus return to Damascus again : nor was Aristobulussatisfied with escaping [out of his brother's hands], but gather-td all his forces together, and pursued his enemies, and foughtthem at a. place 'called Papyron, and slew above six thousand ofthem, and, together with them, Antipater's brother, Phalion. 4. When Hyrcanus and Antipater were thus deprived of theirhopes from the Arabians ; they transferred the same to theiradversaries ; and because Pompey had passed through Syria, andwas come to Damascus, they fled to him for assistance ; and *,without any bribes, they made the same equitable pleas that theyhad used to Aretas, and besought him to hate the violent be­haviour of Aristobulus, and to bestow the kingdom upon him towhom it justly belonged, both on account of his good character,and on account of his superiority in age. However, neither wasAristobulus wanting to himself in this case, as relying on thebribes that Scaurus had received : he was also there himself, andadorned himself after a manner the most agreeable to royaltythat he was able. But he soon thought it beneath him to comein such a servile manner, and could not endure to serve his ownends in a way so much more abject than he was used to ; so hedeparted from Diospolis. 5. At this his behaviour Pompey had great indignation ; Hyr-canus also and his friends made great intercession to Pompey ; sdhe took not only' his Roman forces, but many of his Syrianauxiliaries, and marched against Aristobulus. But when hehad passed by Pella and Scythopolis, and was come to Corea,where you enter into the country of Judea, when you go up toit through the Mediterranean parts, he heard that Aristobuluswas fled to Alexandrum, which is a strong hold fortified withthe utmost magnificence, and situated upon an high mountain,and he seiat to him, and commanded him to come down. Nowhis inclination was to try his fortune in a battle, since he wascalled in such an imperious manner, rather than to comply withthat call. However, he saw the multitude were in great fear,'and his friends exhorted him to consider what the power of theRomans was, and how it was irresistible ; so he complied withtheir advice, and came down to Pompey ; and when he had made that the 1 offered sect. 6. ; although his remarkable abstinence from the 2000 talents that were in the Jewish temple, when he took it a little afterward, ch. vii. sect. 6. and Antiq. B. XIV. ch. iv. sect. 4. will hatdly permit us to desert the Greek cepits, all which agree that h« did not take them.