OCR Output TARQU1XII. TARRACINA. 1103 irrjiui; but though it n there termed "Colonianjainii," it is certain that it did not retain theit ot a colony; Cicero distinctly speaks of it as a i minpioai," and the Tarquinienses are rankedPliny among the ordinary municipal towns of runs. Its municipal rank is further confirmednvriptinns recently discovered on the site. {Lib.I. p. 819; Cic. pro Cote. 4 ; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8;i. iiL 1. § 50; Inter, in Bullett. d. Inst. Arch.TO, pp. 188, 199.) From these last records we-n that it was apparently still a flourishing town:tr bice of the Antonines, and its name is stillid is the Tabula near three centuries later ii Prut) It is probable, therefore, that it sur--I the fall of the Western Empire, and owed itsU delation to the Saracens. V: the present day the site of the ancient city is>!ly desolate and uninhabited; but on a hill aboutius and a half distant stands the modern city of-wto, the origin of which does not date furtherIt than the eighth or ninth century. It was pro-ly peopled with the surviving inhabitant* of Tar-c:l The site of the latter is clearly marked: itTp~l, like most Etruscan cities, the level summiti lull, bounded on all sides by steep, though not-iptoae escarpments, and occupying a space ofat a mile and a half in length, by half a mile ingreatest breadth. It is still known as Turchina,:di called also the Piano di Civila. Hardly anyu are now visible, but the outline of the walls- be traced around the brow of the hill, partly byliitions still hi situ, partly by fallen blocks. The>-*t point of the hill (furthest to the W. and-»t to the Maria) seems to have served as the: or citadel, and here the foundations of some■J nc*. supposed to he temples, may be traced.it'u.i fragments of buildings of Roman date areru-ible, and though insignificant in themselves,in conjunction with tlie inscriptions alreadytimed, that the site was well inhabited in Roman-. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. i. pp. 371—385.)ut by far the most interesting remains nowle it Tarquinii are those of the Necropolis, whichtried almost the whole of the hill opposite to the, at Lha W. extremity of which stands the•m town of Coneto. The whole surface of thet ■ its Dennis) " is rugged with tumuli, or whatcure been such," whence the appellation byh rt is Bow known of MontarozzL Vast num-f tbe»e tombs have been opened, and havei! a rich harvest of rases, ornaments, and otherts of antiquity. Bat the most important arerflf* which the walls are adorned with paintings,u possess a double interest, both as works of art(ram the light they throw upon Etruscan man-It may indeed he asserted in general of therings ia these tombs that while the influence ofk art ia unquestionably to be traced in their de-»ad execution, the subjects represented and the:«! tbey exhibit are purely Etruscan. Theher of these painted tombs found at Tarquiniii.t exceeds those which have been discovered onute of any other city of Etruria; but they still■tdy a very small proportion to the whole num- • t<mba opened, so that it is evident this mode■ -oration was far from general. The paintingsis; of those first opened, which are figured in the • <-<f Mkaliand Ingbirami, have since been allowedil into decay, and have in great measure disap-«L Detailed descriptions of all the most in- of them, as well as thuso more recently discovered, will be found in Dennis's Etruria (vol. i.pp. 281—364.) [E. H. B.] TARRACI'NA (To/if(Wo, Strab.; To#d«7|ra,Steph. B.: Eth. Tap^axiyhris, Tarracinensis: Ter-racina), a city of Latium in the more extended senseof that name, but originally a Volscian city, situatedon the Tyrrhenian sea, about 10 miles from Circeii,and at the extremity of the Pomptine Marshes. It wasalso known by the name of Ajixlh, and we learnfrom Pliny and Uvy that this was its Volscian name,while Tarracina was that by which it was known tothe Latins and Romans. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Enniusap. Fest. «. v. Anxur; Liv. iv. 59.) The name ofAnxur is frequently used at a much later perUxl bythe Roman poets (Hot. .Sat. i. 5. 26; Lucan. iii.84; Martial, v. 1.6, &c), obviously because Tar­racina could not be introduced in verse; but Cicero,I.ivy, and all other prose writers, where they arespeaking of the Roman town, universally call itTarracina. The Greek derivation of the latter namesuggested by Straho (v. p. 233), who says it waaoriginally called Tpaxirf), from its rugged situation,is probably a mere etymological fancy. The firstmention of it in history occurs in the treaty betweenRome and Carthage concluded in B. c. 509, in whichthe people of Tarracina are mentioned in common withthose of Circeii, Antium, &c, among the subjects ordependencies of Rome, (PoL iii. 22.) It seems cer­tain therefore that Tarracina, as well as Circeii, wasincluded in the Roman dominions before the fall ofthe monarchy. But it is clear that it must haveagain fallen under the dominion of the Volscians, pro­bably not long after this period. It was certainly inthe possession of that people, when its name nextappears in history, in n. c 406. On that occasionit waa attacked by N. Fabius Ambustus, and takenby a sudden assault, while the attention of the Vol­scian armies was drawn off in another direction.(Liv. iv. 57; Died. xiv. 16.) Livy speaks of it ashaving at this time enjoyed a long period of powerand prosperity, and still possessing great wealth,which was plundered by the Roman armies. A fewyears afterwards (n. c 402) it again fell into thehands of the Volscians, through the negligence ofthe Roman garrison (Liv. v. 8). In b. c. 400, itwas again besieged by the Roman arms under Vale­rius Pntitua, and though his first assaults were re­pulsed, and he was compelled to have recourse to ablockade, it soon after fell into his hands. (76.12,13.) An attempt of the Volscians to recover it in397 proved unsuccessful (lb. 16), and from thistime the city continued subject to Rome. Nearly70 years later, after the conquest of Pnvemum, itwas thought advisable to secure Tarracina with aRoman colony, which was established there in u c.329. (Liv. viii. 21; Veil. Pat. i. 14.) The condition of Tarracina as a Roman colony ianot quite clear, for Velleius notices it as if it hadbeen one of the " Coloniae Latinae," while Livy cer­tainly does not consider it as such, for be omits itsname among the- thirty Latin colonies in the timeof the Second Punic War, while he on two occa­sions mentions it in connection with the other mari­time colonies, Antium, Minturnae, &c. In commonwith these, the citizens of Tarracina in vain con­tended for exemption from military service duringthe Second Punic War, and at a biter perindclaimed exemption from naval service also. (Liv.xxvii. 38, xxxvi. 3.) There ran, therefore, be nodoubt that Tarracina was a "colonia maritimacivium," and it seems to have early become one of