OCR Output 224 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. those great numbers did nothing, he separated the useless partand excluded them out of the city, and retained that part onlywhich were in the flower of their age, and fit for war. How­ever Antiochus would not let those that were excluded go away,who therefore wandering about between the walls, and consum­ing away by famine, died miserably; but when the feast of ta­bernacles was at hand, those that were within commiserated theircondition, and received them in again. And when Hyrcanussent to Antiochus, and desired there might be a truce, for sevendays, because of the festival, he gave way to his piety towardsGod, and made that truce accordingly: and besides that, he sentin a magnificent sacrifice, bulls with their * horns gilded withall sorts of sweet spices, and with cups of gold and silver. Sothose that were at the gates received the sacrifices from thosethat brought them, and led them to the temple, Antiochus themeanwhile feasting his army; which was a quite different con­duct from Antiochus Epiphanes, who, when he had taken thecity, he offered swine upon the altar, and sprinkled the templewith the broth of their flesh, in order to violate the laws of theJews, and the religion they derived from their forefathers; forwhich reason our nation made war with him, and would neverbe reconciled to him: but for this Antiochus, all men calledhim Antiochus the Pious, for the great zeal he had about re­ligion. 3. Accordingly Hyrcanus took this moderation of his kindly;and when he understood how religious he was towards the Deity,he sent an embassage to him, and desired that he would restorethe settlements they received from their forefathers. So herejected the counsel of those that f would have him utterlydestroy the nation by reason of their way of living, which wasto others unsociable, and did not regard what they said. Butbeing persuaded that all they did was out of a religious mind,he answered the ambassadors, That if the besieged would deliverup their arms and pay tribute for Joppa, and the other citieswhich bordered upon Judea, and admit a garrison of his, onthese terms he would make war against them no longer. Butthe Jews, although they were content with the other conditions,did not agree to admit the garrison, because they could not as­sociate with other people, nor converse with them; yet were theywilling, instead of the admission of the garrison, to give him * Dr. Hudson tells us here, that this custom of gilding the horns of those oxenthat were to be sacrificed, is a known thing both in the poets and orators. f Thiii account in Josephus, that the present Antiochus, was persuaded, though invain, not to make peace with the Jews, but to cut them off utterly, is fully confirm­ed by Diodorus Siculus, in I'hotius' extracts out of his 34th Book.