OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] 6F trffe ttOMAN EMPIRE. the table of Justinian, by the side of his master; aridone thousand pounds of gold might be assigned for theexpense of his journey and entertainment. Yet the1re­peated labours of Isdigune could procure only a partialand imperfect truce, which was always purchased withthe treasures, and renewed at the solicitation, of the By­zantine court. Many years of fruitless desolation elap­sed before Justinian and Chosroes were compelled, bymutual lassitude, to consult the repose of their decliningage. At a conference held on the frontier, each party,without expecting to gain eredit, displayed the power,the justice, and the pacific intentions of their respectivesovereigns; but necessity and interest dictated the trea­ty of peace, which was concluded for a term of fifty years,diligently composed in the Greek and Persian languages,and attested by the seals of twelve interpreters. Theliberty of commerce and religion was fixed and defined;the allies of the emperor and the great king were includ­ed in the same benefits and obligations; and the mostscrupulous precautions were provided to prevent or de­termine the accidental disputes that might arise on theconfines of two hostile nations. After twenty years ofdestructive though feeble war, the limits still remainedwithout alteration; and Chosroes was persuaded to re­nounce his dangerous claim to the possession or sove­reignty of Colchos and its dependent states. Rich inthe accumulated treasures of the east, he extorted fromthe Romans an annual payment of thirty thousand piecesof gold; and the smallness of the sum revealed the dis­grace of a tribute in its naked deformity. In a previousdebate, the chariot of Sesostris, and the wheel of fortune,were applied by one of the ministers of Justinian, whoobserved, that the reduction of Antioch, and some Syriancities, had elevated beyond measure the vain and ambi­tious spirit of the barbarian. "You are mistaken, (re­plied the modest Persian): the king of kings, the lord ofmankind, looks down with contempt on such petty ac- s 2