OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, Operation, the particular effects of which are felt in every society,acted with much more diffusive energy in the Roman world. Theprovinces would-soon have been exhausted of their wealth if themanufactures and commerce of luxury had not insensibly restoredto the industrious subjects, the sums which were exacted fromthem by the arms and authority of Rome. As long as the circu­lation was confined within the bounds of the empire, it impressedthe political machine with a new, degree of activity, and its conse­quences, sometimes beneficial, could never become pernicious. But it is no easy task to confine luxury within the limits of an Foempire. The most remote countries of the ancient world wereransacked to supply the pomp and delicacy of Rome. The forestsof Scythia afforded some valuable furs. Amber was brought overland from the shores of the Baltic to the Danube; and the bar­barians were astonished at the price which they received in exchangefor so useless a commodity ,0'. There was. a considerable demandfpr Babylonian carpets, and other manufactures of the east; butthe most important and unpopular branch of foreign trade wascarried on with Arabia and India. Every year, about the time of;tbe. summer solstice, a fleet of an hundred and twenty vessels failedfrom Myos-hormos,' a port of Egypt; on the Red Sea. By the.periodical assistance of the Monsoons, they traversed the ocean inabout forty days. The coast of Malabar, or the island of Ceylon,,ot, was the usual term of their navigation, and it was in'thosemarkets that the merchants from the more remote countries ofAsia expected their arrival. The return of the fleet of Egypt wasfixed to the months of December or January; and as soon as theirrich cargo had been transported on the backs of camels, fromthe Red Sea to the Nile, and had descended that river as far asAlexandria, it was poured, without delay, into the capital of theempire"". The objects of oriental traffic were splendid and trifling:silk, a pound of which was esteemed not inferior in value to a ., • > pound