OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 143 that it was be, who, being sent to command Minucius'army, took Bovianum. During the same year Sara,Arpinum, and Censennia were recovered from the Sam-nites. The statue of Hercules the great was erected inthe capitol, and dedicated. 45. In the succeeding consulate of Publius SulpiciusSaverrio and Publius Sempronius Sophus, [A. U. C.449. B. C. 303] the Samnites, desirous either of atermination or a cessation of hostilities, sent ambassa­dors to Rome to treat of peace; to whose submissivesolicitations this answer was returned, that, ' had notthe Samnites frequently solicited peace, at times whenthey were actually preparing for war, their present ap­plication might, perhaps, in the course of negotiating,have produced the desired effect. But now, since wordshad bitherto proved vain, people's conduct might beguided by facts: that Publius Sempronius the consulwould shortly be in Samnium with an army: that hecould not be deceived in judging whether their disposi­tions inclined to peace or war. He would bring thesenate certain information respecting every particular,and their ambassadors might follow the consul on hisreturn from Samnium.' The Roman accordinglymarched through all parts of Samnium, found everything in a state of peace, and was liberally suppliedwith provisions; on which, a renewal of the old treatywas this year granted to the Samnites. The Romanarms were then turned against the jEquans, their oldenemies, but who bad, for many years past, remainedquiet, under a fallacious appearance of friendship. Thereason of making war on them was, that while the Her-nicians were in a state of prosperity, these had, in con­junction with them, frequently sent aid to the Sam-nites; and after the Hernicians were subdued, almostthe whole nation, without dissembling that they actedby public authority, had revolted to the enemy; andwhen, after the conclusion of the treaty with the Sam­nites at Rome, ambassadors were sent to demand satis­faction, they said that ' this was only a trial made ofthem, on the expectation that they would through fear