OCR Output 31S B1F.GARA. MEGARA. tical form of government was established. (Pnus. i.43. § 3.) Into the value of those traditions it would beuseless to inquire. It may, however, be regarded ascertain, that Megara and its territory were in earlytimes regarded as part of Attica; and hence Strataaccounts for the omission of their names in theHi.Ml. because they were comprehended along withthe Athenians under the general name of Iunians.(Stnib. ix. p. 392.) The most certain event in thehistory of Megara is its conquest by the Dorians.This event is connected in tradition with the ex­pedition of the 1'eloponnesians against Athens.The Dorian invaders were defeated by the voluntarysacrifice of Codrus; but Megaris was notwithstandingpermanently conquered, and a Corinthian and Mcs-aenian colony founded at Megara. The pillar at theisthmus of Corinth, which had hitherto marked theboundaries of Ionia and Peloponnesus, was now re­moved; and Megara was henceforth a Dorian state,and its territory included in Peloponnesus. (Strab.ix. p. 393; Scymn. Ch. 502.) Megara, however,continued for some time to be Bubject to Corinth,and it was not without frequent struggles andwars that it at length established its independence.(For authorities, see Mtiller, Dorians, i.-5. § 10.)Megara appears not to have become the ruling cityin the district till it was independent of Corinth,since in earlier times it had been only one of thefive hamlets (ftw/iai), into which the country wasdivided, nsmely, the Heraeans, Piraeans, Megarians,Cynosurians and Tripodiscaeans. (Plut. Quaest.Oraecc. 17, p. 387.) After Megara had become an independent city,its prosperity rapidly increased, and in the seventhcentury before the Christian era it was one of themost flourishing commercial cities of Greece. Forthis it was chiefly indebted to its admirable situa­tion, which gave its inhabitants great facilities forthe prosecution of commerce both by land and sea.Ail the roads from Northern Greece to Peloponnesuspassed through their country, while their shoresbeing washed by the Corinthian and Saronic gulfs,enabled them to trade both with the West and East. Megara founded some of the earlier Greciancolonies, both in Sicily and Thrace. In b. c. 728it established Megara Hyblaea in Sicily, in 712Astacus in Bithynia, in G75 Cyzicus in the Pro-pontis, in the following year Chah*edon at themouth of the Bosporus, and in 657 Byzantiumopposite Chalcedoii. About this time, or ratherlitter, Comedy is said to have been invented by theMegarians. According to the common account,Susarion, a native of Tripodiscus in Megaris, intro­duced comedy into Attica, (itict of Biogr. art.SrsAUioN.) But, with the increase of wealth, thelower orders attempted to obtain a share in thegovernment, which had hitherto been exclusively inthe hands of the Dorian conquerors; and Theagenes,the father-in-law of Cylon, I* came tyrant or despotof Megara, by attacking the rich landed proprietorsand advocating the claims of the poor. (Aristot.RhtL i. 2, Polii. v. 4.) He embellished the city bythe construction of a beautiful aqueduct, which con­tinued to exi.-t down to the time of Pausanias(i. 40. § 1). Theagenes ruled about B.C. 630—600; but he was subsequently driven from power,and Megara was for some time torn asunder bystruggles between the aristocracy and democracy.The elegiac poet Theognis, who belonged to thearistocracy, deplores the sufferings of his party, and complains that the poor no longer paid the hiof their debts, and that they plundered the huu»iof the rich and even the temples. About the same time the Megarians were engagedin frequent contests with their neighbours in Attica.The chief struggle between them was for the ttkadof Salamis, which was at length gained by tUAthenians in consequence of the well-known stra-tagem of Solon. (Pans. i. 40. § 5; Strab. ix. p.394.) The Megarians took their share in the Per­sian wars. They fought with 20 ships at tfatbattles of Artemtsium and Salamis. (Herod, riii.1, 45.) They repulsed a body of Persians whomMardonius sent to ravage their territory (Paus. L40. § 2), and finally 3000 of their troops (ought atthe battle of Plataea. (Herod, ix. 28.) After the Persian War the Megarians were in­volved in hostilities with the Corinthian* respect ingthe boundaries of their territories. This led theMegarians to desert the Peloponnesian alliance, acdunite themselves with the Athenians, b. c 455. laorder to secure their communication with Megara,the Athenians built two Long Walls connecting thecity with Nisaea; and they garrisoned at the sametime the town of Pegae, on the Corinthian gulf.(Thuc i. 103.) But ten years afterwards the Me­garians revolted from Athens, and having obtainedthe assistance of some Peloponnesian troops, tbeyslew the Athenian garrison, with the exception ofthose who escaped into Nisaea. Tbey continued tohold Nisaea and Pegae, but they also surrenderedthese towns in the thirty years' truce made in tawsame year (445) with Sparta and her allies. (Tauci. 114, 115.) The Athenians thus lost all autho­rity over Megaris; but they were so exasperatedwith the Megarians, that they passed a decreeexcluding them from their markets and porta. Thisdecree pressed very hard upon the Megarians, wheatunproductive soil was not sufficient to support thepopulation, and who obtained most of their suppliesfrom Attica: it was one of the reasons urged by thePeloponnesians for declaring war against Athens.(Thuc i. 67 , 139; Aristoph. Acham. 533.) In the Peloponnesian War the Megarians sufferedgreatly. In the first year of the war the Athm-an»invaded Megaris with a very large force, and laidwaste the whole territory np to the city walls. Atthe same time the Athenian fleet blockaded theharbour of Nisaea, so that Megara was in the situa­tion of a besieged city cut off from all its supplier.This invasion was repeated by the Athenians unrvin every year, and sometimes even twice; and thesufferings which the people then endured wereremembered by them many centuries afterward*,and were assigned to Pausanias as the reason wiryone of their works of art had not been finished. (Thar,ii. 31; Plut. Per. 30; Pans. i. 40. § 4.) In the fifthyear of the Peloponnesian War (b. c. 427), the Athe­nians under Nicias took possession of the island of M*-noa, which lay in front of Nisaea, and lek a garruwaithere, by which means the port of Nisaea was stillmore effectively blockaded. (Thuc. iii. 51.) Of the po­sition of this island, and of the causeway connectingit with the mainland, we shall speak presently, tnthe eighth year of the Pelnponne&ian War (n.f. 424 X.the democratkal party in Megara fearing the returnof the aristocratical exiles, who were at Pegae, en­tered into negotiations with the Athenian* to sur­render their city to them. The Athenians atill b*ldMiuoa; and the Long Walls and Nisaea were utvu-picd by an Athenian garriauo. The