OCR Output O £ R O M E. 49p with certainty on human affairs, would have erfectu- BOOKally faved Rome from falling into the hands of an . v'.enemy, the deftined ruin now approached the city y.R. 364.with hafty fteps: ambafladors arrived from the peo- B. C. 388.ple of Clufium, foliciung aid againft the Gauls.According to fome reports, that nation was alluredto crofs the Alps, by the delightfulnefs of the pro­ductions of the foil, and efpecially by the deliciouf-nefs of the wine, a matter then new to them; theytook pofieffion of lands formerly cultivated by theEtrurians, and A runs of Clufium carried wine intoGaul for the purpofe of enticing that people, thathe might, by their means, gratify his refentment forhis wife's being debauched by Lucumo, whofe guar­dian he himfelf had been; a young man of over­grown power, on whom it would have been impofli-ble to inflict punifhment without having recourfe toforeign afliftance. He acted as their guide, inpaffing the Alps, and advifed them to lay fiege toClufium. I do not indeed take upon me to deny,that the Gauls were conducted to Clufium by Aruns,or fome other Clufian, but that thofe who laid fiegeto Clufium, were not the firft who croffed the Alps,is certain; for the Gauls crofied over into Italy, twohundred years before they befieged Clufium, andtook the city of Rome. Nor were thefe the firft ofthe Etrurians with whom they waged war; for longbefore this, the Gallic armies fought many battleswith thofe who dwelt between the Apennines and theAlps. The Tufcans, before the growth of the Ro­man empire, pofiefied very extenfive fway both byland and fea: how great their power was in the up­per and lower feas, by which Italy is almoft fur-rounded, as an ifland, the names of thofe feas de-monftrate ; one being called, by the Italian nations,the Tufcan, the general appellation of that people;the other, the Adriatic, from Adria, a colony of.Tufcans. The Greeks alfo call thofe feas the Tyrr­henian and Adriatic. This people inhabited bothK K 2 the