OCR Output 188 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. favour, as a strange example of the vicissitudes ofXXXVL fortune*. Death and If the emperor could rejoice in the death of Beli-justinian, sarius, he enjoyed the base satisfaction only eightNov?'i465' months, the last period of a reign of thirty-eight,and a life of eighty-three years. It would be difficultto trace the character of a prince who is not the mostconspicuous object of his own times: but the con­fessions of an enemy may be received as the safestevidence of his virtues. The resemblance of Jus­tinian to the bust of Domitian is maliciously urged;with the acknowledgment, however, of a well-pro­portioned figure, a ruddy complexion, and a pleasingcountenance. The emperor was easy of access, pa­tient of hearing, courteous and affable in discourse,and a master of the angry passions, which rage withsuch destructive violence in the breast of a despot.Procopius praises his temper to reproach him withcalm and deliberate cruelty; but in the conspiracieswhich attacked his authority and person, a more can­did judge will approve the justice or admire theclemency of Justinian. He excelled in the privatevirtues of chastity and temperance. His repasts wereshort and frugal: on solemn fasts, he contented him­self with water and vegetables; and such was his blindness and beggary of Belisarius in ten vulgar or political verses (Chiliad iii.No. 88. 339—348. in Corp. Poet. Grac . tom. ii. p. 311): Ov TUyrl uik iSo^afflt, atfCT^Xoi -8* 6 <f 0ovOf. This moral or romantic tale was imported into Italy with the language and manu­scripts of Greece; repeated before the end of the xvth century by Crinitus, Pon-tanus, and Volaterranus; attacked by Alciat, for the honour of the law; anddefended by Baronius (A. D. 561, No. 2, &&), for the honour of the church.Yet Tzetzes himself had read in other chronicles, that Belisarius did not lose hissight, and that he recovered his fame and fortunes. * The statue in the villa Borghese at Rome, in a sitting posture, with an openhand, which is vulgarly given to Belisarius, may be ascribed with more dignity toAugustus in the act of propitiating Nemesis (Winkelman, Hist. de l'Art, tom. iii.p. 206). Ex nocturno visu etiam stipem, quotannis, die certo, emendicabat apopulo, cavam manum asses porrigentibus pra;bens (Sueton. in August. c . 91,with an excellent note of Casaubon).