OCR Output 340 ROMAN EMPIRE. the third caliph, twenty-four years after the death ofthe prophet, that All was invested, by the popularchoice, with the regal and sacerdotal office. The man­ners of the Arabians retained their primitive simplicity,and the son of Abu Taleb despised the pomp and vanityof this world. At the hour of prayer, he repaired tothe mosch of Medina, clothed in a thin cotton gown, acoarse turban on his head, his slippers in one hand, andhis bow in the other, instead of a walking staff. Thecompanions of the prophet and the chiefs of the tribessaluted their new sovereign, and gave him their righthands as a sign of fealty and allegiance.Discord of The mischiefs that flow from the contests ofIndpJr-8 ambition are usually confined to the times andBums. countries in which they had been agitated. Butthe religious discord of the friends and enemies of Allhas been renewed in every age of the Hegira, and is stillmaintained in the immortal hatred of the Persians andTurks.k The former, who are branded with the appella­tion of Shiites or sectaries, have enriched the Mahometancreed with a new article of faith; and if Mahomet bethe apostle, his companion Ali is the vicar, of God. Intheir private converse, in their public worship, they bit­terly execrate the three usurpers who intercepted his in­defeasible right to the dignity of imam and caliph; andthe name of Omar expresses in their tongue the perfectaccomplishment of wickedness and impiety.1 The Son-nites, who are supported by the general consent and or­thodox tradition of the Mussulmans, entertain a moreimpartial, or at least a more decent, opinion. They re­spect the memory of Abubeker, Omar, Othman, and Ali,the holy and legitimate successors of the prophet. But k The schism of the Persians is explained by all oar travellers of the last century,especially in the second and fourth volumes of their master, Chardin. Niebuhr,though of infinite merit, has the advantage of writing so late as the year 1764,(Voyages en Arabic, &c. torn. 2. p. 208—233.) since the ineffectual attempt ofNadir Shah to change the religion of the nation. (See his Persian History trans­lated into French by sir William Jones, torn. 2. p. 5, 6. 47, 48. 144—155.) 1 Omar is the name of the devil: his murderer is a saint. When the Persians?hoot with the bow, they frequently cry—" May this arrow go to the heart ofOmar!" (Voyages de Chardin, torn. 2. p. 239, 240. 259, &c.)