OCR Output N5AENESTE. 605 PRAENESTE. inalmk lal coalition. Cicero mentions it by | conjectural. A detailed account of tlie existingSiolkofsCok*iia(C>c. tn Cat i. 3); and though remains, and of all that can be traced of the plantin HinT nor the Liber Coloniarutii give it that | and arrangement, will be found in Nibby. (/>iu- torm, vol. ii. p. 494—510.) The celebrity of the shrine or sanctuary of For­tune at Praeneste is attested by many ancientwriters (Ovid, Fast vi. 61; Sil. Ital. viii. 366;Lucan, ii. 194; Strab. v. p. 238), and there is nodoubt that it derived its origin from an earlyperiod. Cicero, who speaks of the temple in histime as one of great antiquity as well as splendour,gives us a legend derived from the records of thePraenestines concerning its foundation, and the in­stitution of the oracle known as the Sortes Prae-nestinae, which was closely associated with theworship of fortune. (Cic. efe Div. ii. 41.) So ce­lebrated was this mode of divination that not onlyRomans of distinction, but even foreign potentates,are mentioned as consulting them (Val. Max. i.3. §1; I.iv. xlv. 44: Propert. iii. 24. 3); andthough Cicero treats them with contempt, as in hist>J iflta id modem appellation of Palcstiina. I day obtaining credit only with the vulgar, we arelit adeni city is built almost entirely upon \ told by Suetonius that Tiberius was deterred by religious scruples from interfering with them, andDomitian consulted them every year. AlexanderSeverus also appears, on one occasion at least, to• 4 the hill the summit of which was crowned i have done the same. (Suet. Tib. 63, Domit 15;I* loaent citadel. This bill, which is of very 1 I.amprid. Alex. Sev. 4.) Numerous inscriptions•ImLIt elevation (being not less than 2400 | also prove that they continued to be frequently con-•!"v» tbe sea, and more than 1200 above its suited till a late period of the Empire, and it was not till after the establishment of Christianity thatthe custom fell altogether into disuse. (Inscr. ap.Bormann, pp. 212,213; Orelli, Itucr. 1756—1759.)The Praenestine goddess seems to have been spe-«i tome. It is this position, combined with dally known by the name of Kortuna Priniigenia,p»£ Oresgtli of the citadel arising from the and her worship was closely associated with that of the infant Jupiter. (Cic. efe I)h. L c. \ Inscr. ut«ap.) Another title under which Jupiter was spe­cially worshipped at Praeneste was that of Jupiterlinpemtor, and tbe statue of the deity at Romewhich bore that appellation was considered to havebeen brought from Praeneste (Liv. vi. 29). The other ancient remains which have been dis-of wall covered at Palestrina belong to the later city or the) to the ' colony of Sulla, and are situated in the plain at>«t, which they evidently served to connect some distance from the foot of tbe hill. Among these are the extensive ruins of the villa or palaceof the emperors, which appears to have been builtby Hadrian about A. D. 134. They resemble much tziliMo, in colonial dignity under the Empireitodiotl.v attested by numerous inscriptions,bap, it Coin. p. 254; Lib. Colon, p. 236;mi/tax 1*31, 3051, etc.) A. Gellius indeedt i >krjr tint the Praenestines applied to Tiberiusi > iiwnr to he changed from a colony into a'£t:ium; bat ii their request was really granted,u werts, the change could have lasted for but■bet tine. (GelL N. A. xri. 13; Zumpt, /. c.)lir anil souvely any mention of Praeneste to­ut u» decline of the Western Empire, nor doesaw Spire in the Gothic wars which followed:: i ifym t£iia ander tbe Lombard kings, andn i cSKpicuoos part in the middle ages. At»uaui it w»s commonly known as the Civitas«a>'jaa, sad it is this form of the name—whichlimit found in an inscription of A. D. 40Sn- /mct. 105)—that has been gradually cor-modem appellation of Palcstiina.city is built almost entirely uponn ud gigantic substructions of the temple oftsy. void), af.er its restoration and enlarge-I b/ Sella, occupied the whole of the lower (being not less than 2400ri»rt tbe sea, and more than 1200 above itsMate hue), projects like a great buttress ork tram Oie angle of tbe Apennines towardsi^u Hills, so that it looks down upon and» ft ranuiaud the whole of the Campagna tod steepness of the hill on which itk cm rendered Praeneste a position of such■oca. Tbe site of tbe ancient citadel, on thea: tl \lt bill u now occupied by a castle ofkite ages called Castel S. Pietro: but a con­'s* jart of tbe ancient walls still remains,nvtai in a very massive style of polygonalu luaeauoe, and two irregular Da nladel above. The lower, vr modern town,■' mewhat pyramidal manner on successive*■ mppmed by walls or facing* of polygonal that of the walls of the in their general style those of his villa at Tivoli,i be no doubt that these successive > but are much inferior in preservation as well as inat one time belonged to the temple extent. Near them is an old church still calledbat it is probable that they are of Sta Maria delta Villa. It was not far from this spot that were discoveredin 1773 the fragments of a Roman calendar, sup­posed to be the same which was arranged by the "ter date than the time of Sulla, and pre-!■ traad part of tbe ancient city, the streetst aiay hare occupied these lines of terraces as those of the modern town do grammarian Verrius Place ua, and set up by him lanat m '»Jrwnt day. There are in all five successive■> Ok higbest of which was crowned by thes«" Koruue properly vo called,—a circularf *tta a vaulted ruof, tbe ruins of whichuli the end of the 13th century, whentermed by Pope Itoniface VIII. Below*» a bemicyrle, or semicircular building,a {Mtie*, the plan of which may be stillIi Ml fa on* of the inferior terraces there*u» s mosaic, celebrated as one of the most* av atensring in existence. Various at-» but beta made to restore the plan and'** -i the temple, an edifice wholly unlike any< » kbd; but they are all to a great extent in the forum of Praeneste. (Suet. Gramm. 17.)They are commonly called the Kasti Praenestini, andhave been repeatedly published, first by Koggini(fol. Romae, 1779), with an elaborate commen­tary; and again as an appendix to the editionof Suetonius by Wolf (4 vols. 8vo. Lips. 1802);also in Orelli (Inscr. vol. ii. p. 379, &c). Not­withstanding this evidence, it is improbable thatthe forum of Praeneste was so far from the foot ofthe hill, and its site is more probably indicated bythe discovery of a number of pedestals with honoraryinscriptions, at a spot near the SW. angle of themodem city. These inscriptions range over a periodfrom the reign of Tiberius to the fifth century, thu*