OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 11 extent may seem not unworthy of an Imperial re- chap.sidence. Yet Constantinople must yield to Babylon XIv'and Thebes*, to ancient Rome, to London, and evento Paris t. The master of the Roman world, who aspired to Progress oferect an eternal monument of the glories of his reign,4116 work'could employ in the prosecution of that great workthe wealth, the labour, and all that yet remained ofthe genius of obedient millions. Some estimate maybe formed of the expense bestowed with Imperialliberality on the foundation of Constantinople, by theallowance of about two millions five hundred thou­sand pounds for the construction of the walls, theporticoes, and the aqueducts. The forests that over­shadowed the shores of the Euxine, and the cele­brated quarries of white marble in the little island ofProconnesus, supplied an inexhaustible stock of ma­terials, ready to be conveyed, by the convenience of ashort water carriage, to the harbour of Byzantium.A multitude of labourers and artificers urged theconclusion of the work with incessant toil: but theimpatience of Constantine soon discovered, that inthe decline of the arts, the skill as well as numbers ofhis architects bore a very unequal proportion to thegreatness of his designs. The magistrates of themost distant provinces were therefore directed to in­stitute schools, to appoint professors, and by the hopesof rewards and privileges, to engage in the study andpractice of architecture a sufficient number of in­genious youths, who had received a liberal education.The buildings of the new city were executed by suchartificers as the reign of Constantine could afford; * When the ancient texts, which describe the size of Babylon and Thebes,are settled, the exaggerations reduced, and the measures ascertained, we find thatthose famous cities filled the great but not incredible circumference of abouttwenty five or thirty miles. Compare d'Anville, Mem. de VAcademic torn.xxviii. p. 235, with his Description de l'Egypte, p. 201, 202. f If we divide Constantinople and Paris into equal squares of 60 Frenchtoises, the former contains B50, and the latter 1160 of those divisions.