OCR Output AN. 135.J 477 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. gilded; with all sorts of sweet spices; andwith cups of gold and silver. So those thatwere at the gates received the sacrifices fromthose that brought them, and led them to thetemple; Antiochus in the mean time feastinghis army. This was quite a different con­duct from that of Antiochus Epipbanes: who,when he had taken the city, offered swineupon the altar, and sprinkled the templewith the broth of their flesh; in order to vio­late the laws of the Jews, and the religionthey derived from their forefathers: forwhich reason our nation made war withhim, and would never be reconciled to him.But for this Antiochus, all men called himAntiochus the Pious; for the great zeal hehad about religion. Accordingly Hyrcanus took this modera­tion kindly: and when he understood how re­ligious he was towards the Deity, he sent anambassage to him; and desired that he wouldrestore the settlements they received fromtheir forefathers. So he rejected the counselof those that *would have him utterly destroythe nation; by reason of their way of living,which was to others unsociable; and did notregard what they said. But being persuadedthat all they did was out of a religious mind, he answered the ambassadors, that if the be­sieged would deliver up their arms, and paytribute for Joppa and the other cities whichbordered upon Judea, and admit a garrisonof his; on these terms he would make waragainst them no longer. But the Jews, al-,though they were content with the otherconditions, did not agree to admit the gar­rison, because they could not associate withother people, nor converse with them. Yetwere they willing, instead of the admissionof the garrison, to give him hostages, andfive hundred talents of silver. Of whichthey paid down three hundred, and sent thehostages immediately; which king Antio­chus accepted. One of those hostages wasHyrcanus's brother. But still he brake downthe fortifications that encompassed the city.And upon these conditions Antiochus raisedthe siege, and departed. Now Hyrcanus topened the sepulchre ofDavid; who excelled all other kings in riches,and took out of it three thousand talents.fHe was also the first of the Jews that, rely­ing on this wealth, maintained foreign troops.He likewise made a league of friendship andmutual assistance with Antiochus, and admit­ted him into the city, and furnished him with * This account in Josephus, that the present Antiochuswas persuaded, though in vain, not to make peace with theJews, but to cut them off utterly, is fully confirmed by Dio-doras Siculus, in Photius's extracts out of his 34th book,f See the note on Book VII. chap. 15.I Josephus tells us, that Hyrcanus, to find some moneyfor this, and other occasions of the government, broke upthe sepulchre of David, and took from thence three thou­sand talents, and that Herod the Great did afterwards thelike, (Antiq. lib. XVII. c. 16, and lib. XVI. c. 11.) Butboth these stories are highly improbable. David had nowbeen dead near nine hundred years, and what is told ofthis treasure, supposes it to have been buried with himall this time. It supposes, that as oft as the city of Jeru­salem, the palace, and the temple, during the reigns ofthe kings of Judah, had been plundered of all theirwealth and treasure by prevailing enemies, this dead stockstill remained safe from all rifle or violation. It supposes,that as oft as these kings were forced to take all the trea­sure that was found in the house of the Lord, as well asin their own, to relieve the exigencies of the state, theynever meddled with this, that was uselessly buried withDavid in his grave. It supposes, that when one of theworst of their kings, (2 Kings xv. 8, &c. and 2 Chron.xxviii. 28, &c.) plundered the temple of its sacred vessels,and cut them in pieces, to melt them down into moneyfor his common occasions; and that when one of thebest of them, (2 Kings xviii. 15, 16,) was forced to cutoff the gold wherewith the gates and pillars of the tem­ple were overlaid, to bribe a destroying enemy, this use- less treasure still continued untouched. Nay, it supposesthat when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed both the city andtemple of Jerusalem; so that, for many years, they bothlay in rubbish, this treasure in David's sepulchre lay, allthe while, safe and secure under it; and that when An­tiochus Epiphanes, in like manner, destroyed the city,and robbed the temple of all that he could find, this trea­sure still escaped his rapacious hands, nor was ever mo­lested, till Hyrcanus, at this time, was forced to makebold with it: all which suppositions seem highly impro­bable, and beyond belief. There is this, however, to besaid in the matter, that as there certainly was a bank ortreasury in the temple, where money was laid up for thesupport of the poor, for the relief of widows and father­less children, and for the maintenance of divine service:and where the great men, and rich men of the nationwere used to deposit their wealth, for its better security;it is not improbable, that upon the account of the fre­quent invasions and depredations they were liable to, thistreasure might be kept in some secret and subterraneousplace, unknown to all, but such as were at the head ofaffairs; that Hyrcanus, being now under great difficultyto raise money, might borrow it out of this bank, till bet­ter times enabled him to repay it; and that Herod, whenhe plundered it quite, might trump up this plausiblestory, that it neither belonged to church, nor poor, norany private person, but had been deposited there byDavid, and his successors, as a proper supply for the statein times of need. Prideaux's Connection, anno 135, andUniversal History, lib. 2, c. 11. B. 4G2