OCR Output Chap. VI. WARS or THE JEWS. 267 a long apology for himself, and for the justness of his cause in'taking the government, he returned to the fortress. And whenhis brother invited him again [to plead his cause], he came downand spake about the justice of it, and then went away withoutany hindrance from Pompey : so he was between hope and fear.And when he came down, it was to prevail with Pompey toallow him the government entirely ; and when he went up tothe citadel, it was that he might not appear to debase himself4oo low. However, Pompey commanded him to give up hisfortified places, and forced him to write to every one of theirgovernors to yield them up ; they having had this charge giventhem, to obey no letters but what were of his own hand-writing.Accordingly he did what he was ordered to do ; but had still anindignation in what was done, and retired to Jerusalem, and pre­pared to fight with Pompey. 6. But Pompey did not give him time to make any prepara­tions [for a siege], but followed him at his heels : he was alsoobliged to make haste in his attempt, by the death of Mithri-dates, of which he was informed about Jericho. Now here is themost fruitful country of Judea, which bears a vast number of*palm-trees, besides the balsam-tree, whose sprouts they cut withsharp stones, and at the incisions they gather the juice, whichdrops down like tears. So Pompey pitched his camp in thatplace one night, and then hasted away the next morning to Jeru­salem ; but Aristobulus was so affrighted at his approach, that hecame and met him by way of supplication. He also promisedhim money, and that he would deliver up both himself and thecity into his disposal, and thereby mitigated the anger of Pompey.Yet did not he perform any of the conditions he had agreed to ;for Aristobulus's party would not so much as admit Gabiniusinto the city, who was sent to receive the money that he hadpromised. CHAP. VII. How Pompey iad the city 'Jerusalem delivered up to Jnm, luttook the temple [byforce'\. Hoiv be vent into the Holy ofHolies ; as a/so what were his other exploits in Judea. 5 1. A T this treatment Pompey was very angry, and took"^^ Aristobulus into custody. And when he was come tothe city he looked about where he might make his attack ; forhe saw the walls were so firm that it would be hard to overcomethem, and that the valley before the walls was terrible ; and that L 1 2 the * Of the famous palm-trees and balsam about Jericho and Engaddi, seethenotes in Havercamp's edition, both here and B. 11 ch. U. sect. i. The/ are some,what too long to be transcribed in this place.