OCR Output CHAP. XLVJI. 39 ed to the flames, and his ashes to the wind: and thedeed was inspired by the vision of a pretended angel:an ambitious monk, who, under the name of Timothythe Cat,* succeeded to the place and opinions of Dios-corus. This deadly superstition was inflamed, on eitherside, by the principle and the practice of retaliation:in the pursuit of a metaphysical quarrel, many thou­sands* were slain, and the Christians of every degree•were deprived of the substantial enjoyments of sociallife, and of the invisible gifts of baptism and the holycommunion. Perhaps an extravagant fable of the timesmay conceal an allegorical picture of these fanatics,who tortured each other, and themselves. Under theconsulship of Venantius and Celer (says a grave bishop),the people of Alexandria, and all Egypt, were seized witha strange and diabolical frenzy: great and small, slavesand freemen, monks and clergy, the natives of the land,who opposed the synod of Chalcedon, lost their speechand reason, barked like dogs, and tore with their ownteeth, the Jlesh from their hands and arms.bThe Heno- The disorders of thirty years at length pro-Zcno °f duced the famous HENOTICON" of the emperorA.D. 482. Zeno, which in his reign, and in that of Anastasius,was signed byall the bishopsof the east,under the penaltyof degradation and exile, if they rejected or infringed thissalutary and fundamental law. The clergy may smile orgroan at the presumption of alayman who defines the arti­cles of faith: yet if he stoops to the humiliating task, hismind is less infected by prejudice or interest, and the au- , from Ins nocturnal expeditions. In darkness and disguise he creptroond the cells of the monastery, and whispered the revelation to his slumberingbrethren. (Theodcr. Lector, lib. 1.) * C-JVCK; ft T:?./xnflrvo( iuv£fou( al/uarw tfXufllf jUOXlff&HTdl fJtr, fiuvtH ruv yn aXXa JUJaurov Tar acp». Such is the hyperbolic language of the Henoticon. • b See the Chronicle of Victor Tunnensis, in the Lectiones Antiquae of Canisius,repnblished by Basnage, torn. 1. p. 326. c The Henoticon is transcribed by Evagrius, (lib. 3. c. 13.) and translated byLiberatus. (Brev. c. 18.) Pagi (Critica, torn. 2. p. 414.) and Asseman (Bibliot.Orient, torn. 1. p. 343.) are satisfied that it is free from heresy; but Petaviua( Uopnat. Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 1. c. 13. p. 40.) most unaccountably affirms Chal-cedonensem ascivit. An adversary would prove that he had never read theHenoticou.