OCR Output CHAP. LI. 443 The first Before Musa would trust an army of the faith-descent of ful to the traitors and infidels of a foreign land,A.eD.rr 10. he made a less dangerous trial of their strength andJuly' veracity. One hundred Arabs, and four hundredAfricans, passed over, in four vessels, from Tangier, orCeuta; the place of their descent on the opposite shore ofthe strait, is marked by the name of Tarif their chief;and the date of this memorable event"1 is fixed to the monthof Ramadan, of the ninety-first year of the Hegira, tothe month of July, seven hundred and forty-eight yearsfrom the Spanish era, of Caesar,1 seven hundred and tenafter the birth of Christ. From their first station, theymarched eighteen miles through a hilly country to thecastle and town of Julian ;m on which (it is still calledAlgezire) they bestowed the name of the Green Island,from a verdant cape that advances into the sea. Theirhospitable entertainment, the Christians who joined theirstandard, their inroad into a fertile and unguarded pro­vince, the richness of their spoil and the safety of theirreturn, announced to their brethren the most favourableomens of victory. In the ensuing spring, five thousandveterans and volunteers were embarked under the com­mand of Tarik, a dauntless and skilful soldier, who sur­passed the expectation of his chief; and the necessarytransports were provided by the industry of their too k A mistake of Roderic of Toledo, in comparing the lunar years of the Hegirawith the Julian years of the era, has determined Baronius, Mariana, and thecrowd of Spanish historians, to place the first invasion in the year 713, and thebattle of Xeres in November 714. This anachronism of three years has been de­tected by the more correct industry of modern chronologists, above all, of Pagi,(Critica, torn. 3. p. 169. 171—174.) who have restored the genuine state of therevolution. At the present time an Arabian scholar like Cardonne, who adoptsthe ancient error, (torn. 1. p. 75.) is inexcusably ignorant or careless. I The era of Ca:sar, which in Spain was in legal and popular use till the four­teenth century, begins thirty-eight years before the birth of Christ. I would referthe origin to the general peace by sea and land, which confirmed the power amipartition of the triumvirs. (Dion Cassius, lib. 41!. p. 547. 553. Appian. de Bell.Civil, lib. 5. p. 1034. edit, fol.) Spain was a province of Osar Octavian ; andTarragona, which raised the first temple to Augustus, (Tacit. Annal. 1.78.) mightborrow from the orientals this mode of flattery. m The road, the country, the old castle of count Julian, and the superstitious be­lief of the Spaniards of hidden treasures, &c. are described byPere Labat (Voyagesen Espagne et en Italie, torn. 1. p. 207—217.) with his usual pleasantry.