OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 277 takings finally miscarried through the perfidy of those whomhe trusted. At the same time we meet with isolated traitsof high-minded justice: when he punished traitors, he ordi­narily spared those who were involved in the crime solelythrough their personal relations with the leading culprit; butsuch fits of equity are to be met with in every barbaroustyrant. What really distinguishes Mithradates amidst themultitude of similar sultans, is his boundless activity. Hedisappeared one fine morning from his palace and remainedunheard of for months, so that he was given over as lost; whenhe returned, he had wandered incognito through all anteriorAsia and reconnoitred everywhere the country and thepeople. In like manner he was not only generally fluent inspeech, but he administered justice to each of the twenty-two nations over which he ruled in its own language withoutneeding an interpreter—a trait significant of the versatileruler of the many-tongued East. His whole activity as aruler bears the same character. So far as we know (forour authorities are unfortunately altogether silent as to hisinternal administration) his energies, like those of everyother sultan, were spent in collecting treasures, in assemblingarmies—which were usually, in his earlier years at least, ledagainst the enemy not by the king in person, but by someGreek condottiere—in efforts to add new satrapies to theold. Of higher elements—desire to advance civilization,earnest leadership of the national opposition, special gifts ofgenius—there are found, in our traditional accounts at least,no distinct traces in Mithradates, and we have no reason toplace him on a level even with the great rulers of the Os-maus, such as Mahomet II. and Suleiman. Notwithstand­ing his Hellenic culture, which sat on him not much betterthan the Eoman armour on his Cappadocians, he wasthroughout an Oriental of the ordinary stamp, coarse, full ofthe most sensual appetites, superstitious, cruel, perfidious,and unscrupulous, but so vigorous in organization, so power­ful in physical endowments, that his defiant laying about himand his unshaken courage in resistance frequently look liketalent, sometimes even like genius. Granting even, thatduring the death-struggle of the republic it was easier to offerresistance to Rome than in the times of Scipio or Trajan, andthat it was only the complication of the Asiatic events withthe internal commotions of Italy that rendered it possible forMithradates to resist the Romans twice as long as Jugurtha