OCR Output Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 35 lot fell upon the prophet; and when they asked him, Whence hecame? and what he had done ? he replied, That he was an He­brew by nation, and a prophet of Almighty God; and he per­suaded them to cast him into the sea, if they would escape thedanger they were in, for that he was the occasion of the stormwhich was upon them. Now at the first they durst not do so, asesteeming it a wicked thing to cast a man who was a stranger,and who had committed his life to them, into such manifest per­dition; but at last, when their misfortune overbore them, andthe ship was just going to be drowned, and when they were ani­mated to do it by the prophet himself, and by the fear concern­ing their own safety, they cast him into the sea; upon whichthe sea became calm. It is also related that Jonah was swalloweddown by a whale, and that when he had been there three days,and as many nights, he was vomited out upon the Euxine Sea,and this alive, and without any hurt upon his body; and -there,on his prayer to God, he obtained pardon for his sins, and wentto the city Nineveh, where he stood so as to be heard; andpreached, That "in a very little time they should lose the"dominion of Asia." And when he had published this, hereturned. Now, I have given the account about him, as Ifound it written [in our books]. 3. When Jeroboam the king had passed his life in great happi­ness, and had ruled forty years, he died and was buried in Sa­maria, and his son Zechariah took the kingdom. After the samemanner did Uzziah, the son of Amaziah, begin to reign overthe two tribes in Jerusalem, in the fourteenth year of the reignof Jeroboam. He was born of Jecoliah, his mother, who was acitizen of Jerusalem. He was a good man, and by nature right­eous and magnanimous, and very laborious in taking care ofthe affairs of his kingdom. He made an expedition also againstthe Philistines, and overcame them in battle, and took the citiesof Gath and Jabneh, and brake down their walls: after whichexpedition, he assaulted those Arabs that adjoined to Egypt.He also built a city upon the Red Sea, and put a garrison intoit. He after this overthrew the Ammonites, and appointed thatthey should pay tribute. He also overcame all the countries asfar as to the bounds of Egypt, and then began to take care ofJerusalem itself for the rest of his life, for he rebuilt and re­paired all those parts of the wall which had either fallen down the Israelites, but among these heathen mariners, seems a remarkable remains ofthe ancient tradition which prevailed of old over all mankind, that providence usedto interpose visibly in all human affairs, and never to bring, or at least not long tocontinue, notorious judgments but for notorious sins, which the most ancient bookof Job shows to have been the state of mankind for about the former 3000 years ofthe world, till the days of Job and Moses. VOL. II. E 15