OCR Output THERAE AEGYl'TL 1141 THKBAE AKGYPTI. f tbe kings,"— whose sculptures so copiously illus-»:< the history, the arts, and the social life of\f;jyt On this side there are also the remains( temples, palaces, and halls of assembly or judi-atore, with their vast enclosure of walls and their<v avenues of sphinxes. But the western quarter( Tbebts was reserved principally for the dead,rii t.<r the service of religion and the state, while:t mass of the population was contained in thetttmi. Yet the numbers who inhabited the westernlip i>f the city must have been considerable, since*l temple had its own establishment of priests,a«i each palace or public edifice its proper officers! servants. Still we shall probably be correct inscribing the eastern quarter as the civil, and tbe«Merti as the royal and ecclesiastical, portion ofbebea. At present no obelisks have been discoveredIl>e western quarter, but, with this exception, thei iments of Govrnth and Mcdmet-Aboo yield:tW ia grandeur, beauty, or interest to those ofi.tt and Karnak, and in one res[«ct indeed are - more important of the two, since they afford theit existing specimens of Aegyptian colossal orlimit statues. Be-inning then with the western quarter,—therT.mioeia of the Ptolemaic times,—we find at theirtSern limit of the plain, about three quarters ofn.J« from the river, tbe remains of a building to »h I'lompoilion has given the name of Maieph-'»'«, because the name of Setei-Menephtbah is in-r -tJ upon its walla. It appears to have been bothtemple and a palace, and was approached by afi«* of 128 feet in length. Its pillars belong t.-.e oldest style of Aegyptian architecture, and baa-rebels are singularly fine.The next remarkable ruin U the Memnoneium ofrshu (xvii. p. 728), the tomb of Osyniandyas of•i'U-aa, now commonly called the Rameteion on - atitb'jrity of its sculptures. The situation, theteat, and the beauty of this relic of Thebes aretquallv striking. It occupies the first base of bills, as they rise from the phi in; and before theinal mil had encroached on the lower ground, itat have been even a more conspicuous object fromp city titan it now appears. The inequalities of fnnind ou which it was erected were overcomeflirbte of steps from one court to another, and - ICuvusrwH actually stood on a succession of na­il terraces improved by art. The main entrancetv ihe city ia flanked by two pyramidal lowers:■ first court is open to the sky, surrounded byd.eiUe colonnade, and WO feet in length and n breadth. On the left of the staircase•- ascends to the second court still stands the«tsj of tbe statue of lUiiiesea, the largest, ac-lujjf to Diodorus (i. 49), of the colossi of Aegypt.n liie dimensions of its foot, pails of which stillausx, it ia calculated that this statnc was 54 feethr\|rlit and 22 feet 4 inches in breadth across> Louidcrs. The court is strewn with its trug-tt*. How it was erected, or how overthrown * Und not liable to earthquakes, are alike subjectsw.-nder; since, without uiecbaiiical aids wholly> fisl the reach of barbarians, it must have beenhas* m difficult to cast it down from its pedestal to transport it originally from the quarries. • valla of the second court are covered witharea representing the wars of ltameses III., auatiurt and complement of the historical groups *. the interior walls of the pylon. Diodorus47) iptaJu of "mouolitluU figures, 1G cubits high, supplying the place of columns," and thermare probably the pillars of this second court. Healso mentions the attack of a city surrounded by ariver; and this group of sculpture, still extant, iden­tifies the Memnoneium with the monument of Osy-mandyas. A third flight of stairs conducts fromthe court to a hall, which, according toChampollionwas used for public assemblies. A sitting statue ofBarneses flanked each side of ihe steps, and thehead of one of them, now called the young Memnonadonis the British Museum. The columns and wallsof the court are covered with sculptures partly of areligious, partly of a civil character, representing thehomage of the 23 sons of Kameses to their parentand his offerings to the gods. Nine smaller apart­ments succeed to the hall. One of these was d«uU-less the library or ** Dispensary of the Mind"(t^X^5 tarrpuov) of which Diodorus (i. 49) speaks,since in it are found sculptures of Thoth, the inven­tor of letters, and his companion Saf, the "lady ofletters " and 44 President of the Hall of Books." Thischamber had also at one time an astronomical ceil­ing adorned with the figures or symbols of the-Aegyptian months; but it was carried off by thePersians, and the Greek travellers, Diodorus,Hecataeos &c, knew of it only from hearsay. Ofthe nine original chambers, two only remain, theone just described, and a second, in which Iian;c&csis depicted sacrificing to various divinities of theTheben Pantheon. Beneath the upper portion ofthe Memnoneium rock-sepulchres at.d brick graveshave been discovered, both coeval with the liamo-seian dynasty (Lepsius, Rev. Arch. Jan. 1845).The entire area of the Memnoneium was enclosed bya brick wall, in the double arches of which are occa­sionally imbedded fragments of still more ancientstructures, the remains probably of the Thebeswhich the 18th dynasty of the Pharaohs enlargedand adorned. A drotnos NW. of the Memnoneium,formed of not less than 200 sphinxes, and at least1600 feet in length, led to a very ancient temple ina recess of the Libyan hills. This was probably aplace of strength before the lowlands on each sideof the Nile were artificially converted by drainageand masonry into the solid area upon which Thebeswas built The next object which meets the traveller's eye Ua mound of rubbish, the fragments of a building one*occupying the ground. It is called by the ArabsKoum-cUlIattam, or mountain of sandstone, and iscomposed of the ruins of the Amenopheion, the palaceor temple of Amunoph HI.—the Memnon of theGreeks. About a quarter of a mile distant from tbeAmenophcion, atid nearer to the Nile, are the twocolossal statues called Tama and Ckaitia by thenatives, standing isolated ou the plain and eminentabove it. The most northerly of these statues is thecelebrated vocal Memnon. Their present isolation,however, is probably accidental, and arises from thesubsidence or destruction of an intermediate droinos,of which they formed the portals, and which led tothe Ainenopheion. These btatues have already beendescribed in the Dictionary of Biography, t. v. M i ii-HON [Vol. II. p. 1028.] It may be added here thatthe present height of these colossal figures, inclu­sive of the peJestal, is 60 feet. The alluvial toil,however, rises to nearly one half of the pedestal, andas there is an inscription of tbe age ot' AntoninusPius, A. d. 139, foil., i. e. about 1720 years old, weobtain some measure of the amount of de]io>i(i<>nin so many centuries. The blocks from which 4 i> 3