OCR Output TOLERIUM. 121.1 TOLOSA. ioned only by Ovid and Oraius, in reference to aTeat battle fought on its banlu during the Social>V*r, between the Roman consul Rntilius and thetUni, in which the Romans were defeated with-rest slaughter and Rntilius himself slain. (Ovid,Fast tl 565; Ores. v. 18.) [E. H. B.] TOLE'RIOM(IWpuJv, Steph. B.: EUi.ToKtflu>ot,rolrriensis: Valmontone t). an ancient town ofUtium, ths name of which occurs in the earlyllunun history, but which appears to hare ceased to-xi»t at an early period. Its name is found in thei«t given by Dionysius of the thirty Latin citiesHiich farmed the league in n. c. 493 (Dionys. v.SI. arrording to the Vatican MS.; Niebuhr, vol. ii.i it* II): and it is sgain mentioned among the■Ives taken by Coriolanua at the head of thei"oUcian army in b.c 486 (Dionys. viii. 17; Plut.r'.irioi 28). According to the narrative given bytar.ysias, and by Plutarch who copies him, it waslie first place attacked by Coriolanus in that cam-i _ti. and its reduction was followed in succession■y that of Bola, Labicum, Pedum and Corbio. It< lingular that no mention of Tolerium occurs iniie narrative of the same operations by Livy (ii. 39),ind it seems probable that the name of Trebiam,•bich is found in that author (for which the bestUSS. give Trebium), is a corruption for Tolerium, aotherwise little known and therefore liable toderation by copyists. (Cluver. Ilal. p. 969;(ir;nann, Alt-lAtinitcke Chorographie, p. 203.)IV only otlwr notice of Tolerium is found in Pliny,rbo enumerates the Tolerienses" among the 41 po­oh* of Latinm who had formerly shared in thei' rifiees on the Alban Mount, but were in his timeitterly extinct (iii. 5. s. 9). We have no accounti the period of its destruction or final decay. Thenly doe to its position is that derived from the•rrstires above referred to, and it seems very doubt-al how far we arc justified in drawing strict topo-Ta[4iical inferences from such relations. It may,losTTer, be admitted as probable that Tolerinm waslusted in the same neighbourhood with Bola,»tn<-um, and Pedum; and the conjecture of Nibby,rli't would plsce it at VatmonUme, derives at leastarne support from the circumstance that the latterwn stands just at the source of the river Siuxo,ailed in ancient times the Trerus or TolcrusTkkt.i-*]. The name of I 'almontone, is of modemr:.:in, bat it in all probability occupies an ancientit*i some vestiges of its ancient walls are stillwUe, as well as some remains of Roman date,rh:le the scarped sides of the rocks which surround:. and render the position one of great natural strength,buand in ancient sepulchres. Gell, however, regards: as the site of Vitellia rather than Tolerium, a<*;jeeture which has also much to recommend it.Vitxuja.] Valmontone is 5 miles S. of PaltstrinadA about 3 miles beyond Ltignano, on the line ofbe modern Via Latins, and 26 from Rome. (Nibby,'Miami, vol iii pp. 370, 377; Gell, Top. of Rome,k 436; Abeken, itittei-ltalien, p. 76.) [E. H. B.j TOLETUM (TaiAirro-, Ptol. ii. 6. § 57: Eth."j>Uni, I'lin. iii. 3. s. 4; Orelli, Inter, no. 980),be capital of the Carpetani, in Hispania Tar-inaiensis, situated on the Tagus, and on the roadr itn Etnerita to Caesaraogusta, and connected also• another road with Laminium. (/(in. Ant. pp 438.r46.) It was a very strong town, though only ofI'llrrate size, and famed for its manufacture ofrm« and steel-ware. (Lav. xxxv. 7, 22, xxxix, 30;int. Cyneg. 341; cf. Miiiano, IHcciom. viii. p. 453.) According to an old Spanish tradition, To­ledo was founded in the year 540 B. c by Jewishcolonists, who named it Toltdoch, that is, " motherof jteople," whence we might perhaps infer a Phoe­nician settlement (Cf. Miuano, I. e.; Puente, Tra­ce/*, i. p. 27.) It is still called Toledo, and con­tains several remains of Roman antiquities, andespecially the ruins of a circus. (Cf. Flora, Etp.Sagr. v. p. 22; Puente, i. p. 165, acq.) [T. H. D.j TOLIAPIS (ToWro, Ptol. ii. 3. § 33), a smallisland on the E. coast of Albion, opposite to thecountry of the Trinobantes. Sheppy seems the onlyisland with which it is at all possible to identify it;yet it lies farther S. than the account of Ptolemyappears to indicate. [T. H. D.] TOLISTOBOGII, TOLISTOBOGI, or TOL1S-T0B01I. [Gauatia.] TOLLENTI'NUM. [TounrrrauM.] TOLOBIS, a coast town of the Ilercaones, inHispania Tarraconensis. (Mela, ii. 6.) [T. 11. D.] TO'LOPHON (ToAo^wV: Eth. TeAoSMiviot), atown of the Locri Ozolae, possessing a large harbouraccording to Dicaearchus (66; comp Time, iii. 101;Steph. B. i. v.). According to Leake it occupiedthe valley of KieeU. {Norther* Greece, vol. ii. p.620.) TOLO'SA or THOLO'SA (ToAsWo, ToAswo,ToAoo-a, Dion Cass, xxxviii. c 32: Eth. Tolosates,Tolosenses, Tolosani), in Gallia, is Toulome, in thedepartment of llaute-Garome, on the right bankof the Garonne. The identity of Tolosa and Touhmte is easilyproved from the Itineraries and other evidence. InCaesar's time Tolusa was within the Roman Provincia.(£. G. i. 10.) When Caesar is speaking of the inten­tion of the Uelvetii to migrate into the country of theSantones, be remarks that the Santones are not farfrom the territory of the Tolosates, who are in theProvincia. He considered that it would be dan­gerous to the Provincia if the warlike Uelvetii, theenemies of Rome, should be so near to an opencountry, which produced a great deal of grain.The commentators have found some difficulty inCaesar's expression about the proximity of the San­tones and the Tolosates, for the Nitiobriges andPetmcorii were between the Santones and the Tolo­sates; but Caesar only means to say that the Uel­vetii in the country of the Santones would be dan­gerous neighbours to the Provincia. In Caesar'stime Tolosa and Carcaso, both in the basin of theGaronne, were fully organised as a part of theProvincia; for when P. Crassus invaded Aquitania,he summoned soldiers from the muster-rolls of thesetowns to join his army. (fl. G. iii. 20.) Tokxabeing situated on the neck of land where Gallia isnarrowest [Gaixia Tkahsaumma, Vol. I. p. 949]and in a position easy of access from the west,north, and east, was one of the places threatened bythe Galli in the great rising of B. c. 52; but Caesarwith his usual vigilance protected the province onthis side by placing a force at Tolosa. (B. G.vii.7.) Tolosa was an old town of the Volcae Tectosageswhich existed probably many centuries before itwas conquered by the Romans. A great quantityof gold and silver was collected there, the gold theproduce of the auriferous region near the Pyrenees,and both the precious metals the offerings of Gallicsuperstition. The treasure was kept in chambersin the temples, and also in sacred tanks. This isthe story of Posidonius (Slrab. iv. p. 188), who had