OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. can, however, fill up their time by the pursuits of interest or glory,by the improvement of their estate or of their understanding, bythe duties, the pleasures, and even the follies of social life. TheGermans were not possessed of these varied resources. The care ofthe house and family, the management of the land and cattle, weredelegated to the old and the infirm, to women and slaves. Thelazy warrior, destitute of every art that might employ his leisurehours, consumed his days and nights in the animal gratifications offleep and food. And yet, by a wonderful diversity of Nature, (ac­cording to the remark of a writer who had pierced into its darkestrecesses) the fame barbarians are by turns the most indolent and themost restless of mankind. They delight in floth, they detest tran­quillity 5°. The languid foul, oppressed with its own weight, anxi­ously required some new and powerful sensation; and war and dan­ger were the only amusements adequate to its fierce temper. Thefound that summoned the German to arms was grateful to his ear.It roused him from his uncomfortable lethargy, gave him an activepursuit, and, by strong exercise of the body, and violent emotions ofthe mind, restored him to a more lively fense of his existence. Inthe dull intervals of peace, these barbarians were immoderately ad­dicted to deep gaming and excessive drinking; both of which, bydifferent means, the one by inflaming their passions, the other byextinguishing their reason, alike relieved them from the pain ofthinking. They gloried in passing whole days and nights at table;and the blood of friends and relations often stained their numerousand drunken assemblies3'. Their debts of honour (for in that lightthey have transmitted to us those of play) they discharged withthe most romantic fidelity. The desperate gamester, who had stakedhis person and liberty on a last throw of the dice, patiently submittedto the decision of fortune, and suffered himself to be bound, chas­tised, and sold into remote flavery, by his weaker but more luckyantagonist Vol. I. G g Strong