OCR Output Chap. VI.] AND THE ATTEMPT OF DRUSUS AT REFORM. 201 qualified poorer burgesses pressed forward unbidden to enterthe army; in fact, from the mass of the civic rabble withoutwork or averse to it, and from the considerable advantageswhich the Roman war-service yielded, the enlistment ofvolunteers could not be difficult. It was therefore simply anecessary consequence of the political and social changes inthe state, that its military arrangements should exhibit atransition from the system of the burgess-levy to the systemof contingents and enlisting; that the cavalry and lighttroops should be mainly formed out of the contingents of thesubjectsjin the Cimbrian campaign, for instance, contin­gents were summoned from as far as Bithynia; and that in thecase of the infantry of the line, while the former arrange­ment of obligation to service was not abolished, every free-born citizen should at the same time be permitted voluntarilyto enter the army, as was first done by Marius in 647. 107. To this was added the reducing the infantry of the line toa level, which is likewise referable to Marius. The Romanmethod of aristocratic classification had hitherto prevailedalso within the legion. Each of the four divisions of the velites,the hastati, the principes, and the triarii, or, as we may say, ofthe advanced guard, of the first, second, and third line, hadhitherto possessed its special qualification as respected pro­perty or age for service and in great part also its own styleof equipment; each had its definite place once for all as­signed in the order of battle; each had its definite militaryrank and its own standard. All these distinctions were nowsuperseded. Any one admitted as a legionary at all neededno further qualification in order to serve in any division;the discretion of the officers alone decided as to his place.All distinctions of armour were set aside, and consequentlyall recruits were uniformly trained. Connected, doubtless,with this change were the various improvements which Ma­rius introduced in the armament, the carrying of the bag­gage, and similar matters, and which furnish an honour­able evidence of his insight into the practical details of thebusiness of war and of his care for his soldiers; and moreespecially the new method of drill devised by Publius Ruti-lius Rufus (consul 649) the comrade of Marius in the ]osAfrican war. It is a significant fact, that that method con­siderably increased the military culture of the individualsoldier and was essentially based upon the training of thefuture gladiators which was usual in the fighting-schools of