OCR Output an. 820.] 345 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in *Cilicia. And upon the rise of a most ter­rible stoxm,f which was so great that the shipwas in danger of sinking, the mariners, themaster, and the pilot himself, made prayersand vows, in case they escaped the sea. ButJonah lay still and covered in the ship,without imitating any thing which the othersdid. But as the waves grew greater, and thesea became more violent by the winds, theysuspected, as is usual in such cases, thatsome one of the persons that sailed with themwas the occasion of this storm; and agreedto discover by lots which of them it was.When they had cast lots4 the lot fell uponthe prophet. And when they asked him,whence he came, and what he had done? hereplied that he was a Hebrew by nation,and a prophet of Almighty God; and he per­suaded them to cast him into the sea, if theywould escape the danger they were in; forthat he was the occasion of the storm. Now,at the first they durst not do so; as esteeming it a wicked tiling to cast a man who was astranger, and who had committed his life tothem, into such manifest destruction. But atlast, when their ship was just going to bewrecked; and when they were animated todo it by the prophet himself, and by the fearconcerning their own safety, they cast himinto the sea; upon which the storm immedi­ately subsided. It is also related that Jonahwas swallowed by a whale; and that whenhe had been there three days, and as manynights, he was vomited out upon the Euxinesea, without having sustained any injury.And there, on his prayer to God, he ob­tained pardon for his sins, and went tothe city of Nineveh: where he stood so asto be heard; and preached, that in a verylittle time they should lose the dominion ofAsia. And when he had published this, hereturned. Now I have given this accountabout him, as I have found it written in ourbooks. || by the valour and bravery of Perseus, who afterwardsmarried her. For in the times of Mela and Pliny, therewere some marks remaining (as they themselves testifynempe, Mela, lib. i. c. 11. Pliny, lib. 5. c. 13. Joseph.De Bello Jud. lib. iii. c. 15.) of the chain wherewith thisroyal virgin was bound to the rock which projects into thesea. But all this is mere fiction, 6rst founded upon theadventure of Jonah, who set sail from this port, and thenimproved with the accession of some particular circum­stances. Calmcfs Commentaire svr Jonas, c. i. v. 3. B. * When Jonah- is said in our Bibles to have gone toTarshish, Jonah i. 3. Josephus understood it, that hewent to Tarshish, in Cilicia, or to the Mediterranean Seaupon which Tarsus lay. So that he does not appear tohave read the text, 1 Kings xxii. 48. as our .copies do,that ships of Tarshish could lie at Ezion Geber, upon theRed Sea. See the note on IX. 1. But as to Josephus'sassertion, that Jonah's fish" was carried by the strength ofthe current upon a storm, as far as the Euxine Sea; it isno way impossible. And since the storm might havedriven the ship, while Jonah was in it, near to that EuxineSea; and since in three more days, while he was in thefish's beHy, that current might bring him to the Assyriancoast; and since withal that coast could bring htm nearerto Nineveh than could any coast of the Mediterranean, itis by no mean? an improbable determination in Josephu?. t The Jewish doctors, who ate great lovers of prodi­gies, are not even satisfied with what they meet with inthis history of Jonah, hut have over and above added, thatas soon as the ship, wherein he was embarked, was undersail, it, all on a sudden, stood stockstill, so that it couldbe made to move neither backward nor forward, notwith­standing all the pains that the mariners took in rowing.But others, with more probability, say, that while all therest of the ships were quiet and unmolested, the stormfell upon none but that wherein Jonah was, which madethe seamen think that there was something miraculous in it; and thereupon called upon the company that sailedwith them, to come and cast lots, (as the superstitiouscustom among the Heathens was, whenever they were inany great distress ;) that accordingly they cast lots threedifferent times, which still fell upon Jonah; and that theylet him down several times with a rope, without plunginghim into the sea, and as often as they did it, found thestorm abate, and whenever they pulled him up again,found it increase; so, that at last, they were forced tocommit him to the mercy of the waves. All which arecircumstances which the Scripture account neither favoursnor contradicts. Calmet's Commentary. B. J This ancient piece of religion, of supposing therewas great sin, where there was great misery; and ofcasting lots to discover great sinners, not only among theIsraelites, but among these Heathen mariners, seems aremarkable vestige of the ancient tradition, which pre­vailed of old over all mankind, that Providence used tointerpose visibly in all human affairs, and never to bring,or at least not long to continue, notorious judgments, butfor notorious sins; which the most ancient book of Jobshews to have been the state of mankind for about theformer 3000 years of the world, till the days of Job andMoses. II The book of Jonah ends as abruptly as it begins. Itbegins with a conjunctive copulative, And the word of theLord came upon Jonah, (so it should be read) which hasmade some commentators think, that it was but an appendixto some of his other writings; and it ends without givingus any manner of account, either whot became of theNinevites, or of Jonah himself, after this expedition. Itis likely indeed, from the compassionate expressionswhich God makes use of towards the Ninevites, that, forthat time, he reversed their doom; and it is not improba­ble that Jonah, when he had executed his commission,and been satisfied by God concerning his merciful proce­dure, returned into Judea; but the author of the Lives