OCR Output 123 LAODICEIA. LAODICKIA. of the hill msy possibly have belonged to the templeof Juno So* pita; and a small portion of a theatre,brought t.i light by excavations in 1832, arc allthat are now viable The inscriptions discoveredon the spot belong principally to the time of theAntonines, and excavations in the last centurybrought to lii;ht many status of the &amc period.(Nibhy, IHntorni di Roma. vo). ii. pp. 173—187;Abeken, Mittel /(alien, p. 215.) Lamivium, as already observed, was situated at ashort distance from the Appiau Way, on the rightof that road: the station " Sub Lanuvio," marked inthe Tabula Peutingeriana between Aricia and TresTalwrnac, was evidently situated on the high road,probably at the eighteenth milestone from Rome,from which point a branch road led directly to theancient city. (Westphal, Rum. Kamp, p. 28; Nibby,Lc.) The remains of two other ancient roads may betraced, leading from the W. and S. of the city inthe direction of Antinm and Asttira. The existenceof this line of communication in ancient times isincidentally referred to by Cicero {a4 Att.xW. 41,43, 46). The tract of country extending S. ofLanuvium in the direction of Ant'mm and the Pon­tine marshes, was even in the time of Strabovery unhealthy (Strab. v. p. 231), and is nowalmost whollv depopulated. [K. H. B.] LAODICEIA COMBl-STA (AaoBimua Karant-KavjMVYj or KtKtxiutvr}), one of the five cities builtby Selcucus I., and named after his mother Selcura.Its surname ( Lat. Combusta) is derived by Strabo(xii. pp. 576.579. xiii. pp. 626,628,637) from trievolcanic nature of the surrounding country, hutHamilton {Researches, ii. p. 194) asserts that thereis "not a particle of volcanic or igneous rock in theneighbourhood;" and it may be added that if suchwere the case, the town would rather have beencalled A. rfjj KaTaKfttavfitrns. The most prolwiblesolution undoubtedly is, that the town was at onetime destroyed by fire, and that on being rebuilt itreceived the distinguishing surname. It was si­tuated on the north-west ot Iconium, on the high roadleading from the west coast to Melitene on theEuphrates, Some describe it as situated in Lycaonia(Steph. B. #. r.; Strab. xiv. p. 663), and others asa town of 1'isidia (Socrat. Hint. Reel. vi. 18; llierocl.p. 672), and Ptolemy (v. 4. § 10) places it in<_ialatia; but this discrepancy is easily explained byrecollecting that the territories just mentioned wereoften extended or reduced in extent, so that at one timethe town belonged to Lycaonia, while at another itformed part of Pisidia. Its foundation is not men­tioned by any ancient writer. Both Leake {Asia Minor, p. 44) and Hamil­ton identify Laodiceia with the modern Ladik;and the former of these geographers states thatat Ladik he saw more numerous fragments ofancient architecture and sculpture than at anyother place on his route through that country.Inscribed marbles, altars, columns, capitals, friezes,cornices, were dispersed throughout the streets,and am»n£ the houses and burying grounds.From this it would appear that Laodiceia mustwire have been a very considerable town. Thereare a few imperial coins of Laodiceia, belongingto the reigns of Titus and Domitian. (Sestini,Mtm. Ant p. 95; comp. Druyaen, Gesch. desJMlen. I p. 663, foil.) [L. S.] LAODICEIA AD LYCPM (AaoftXrsia s-poi t<?.\vtctf: EsJti Uitsar), a city in the south-west of Phrvgia* about a mile from the rapid river f-ym%is situated on the long spur of a hill between tl *narrow valleys of the small rivers Asnpos andCaprus, which discharge their waters into theLycus. The town was originally called Diospolia,and afterwards Khoas (Plin. v. 29), and La*«iiceia,the building of which is ascribed to AntiorhaaThen*, in honour of his wife Laodice, was jimtuhlyfoanded on the site of the older town. It was n 4far west from Colossae, and only six miles to thewest of Hierapolis. (/*. Ant p. 337; Tab. Pmt;Strab. xiii. p. 629.) At first Laodiceia was set aplace of much importance, but it soon acquired a highdegree of prosperity. It suffered greatly duringthe Mithridatic War (Appian, Bell. Mithr. 20;Strab. xii. p. 578), but quickly recovered under thedominion of Itome; and towards the cud of theKepublic and under the first emperors, Laodiceiabecame one of the most important and flourishingcommercial cities of Asia Minor, in whirh lar^wmoney transactions and an extensive trade in woodwere carried on. (Cic. ad Fatn, ii. 17, iii. 5;Strab. xii. p. 577; comp. Vitniv. viii. 3.) Theplace often suffered from earthquakes, especiallyfrom the great shock in the reign of Tiberius, inwhich it was completely destroyed. But the inha­bitants restored it from their own means. (Tar.Arm. xiv. 27.) The wealth of its inhabitant* createdamong them a taste for the arts of the Greeks, as ismanifest from its ruins; and that it did not remainbehind-hand in science and literature is attested bythe names of the sceptics Antiochus and Theiodav,the successors of Aenesidcmus (Diog. Larrt, ix. 11.§ 106, 12. § 116), and by the existence of a greatmedical school. (Strab. xii. p. 580.) During tl:*Roman period Laodiceia was the chief city of aKoman conventus. (Cic. ad Fam. iii. 7, ix. 25,xiii. 54, 67, xr. 4, ad Att. r. 15, 16, 20. 21, tx.1, 2, 3, 7, m Verr. i. 30.) Many of its inhabitantswere Jews, and it was probably owing to this cir­cumstance, that at a very early jrriod it l*varreone of the chief beats of Christianity, and the see <*Ta bishop. (St. Paul, Ep. ad Coins*, ii. 1, it. 1 5,foil. ; Apocal. iii. 14, toll.; Joseph. Ant. Jmt xir.10,20; llierocl. p. 665.) The Byzantine writersoften mention it, especially in the time of the Oom-neni; and it was fortified by the emperor Manual(N'icet. Chon. Ann. pp.9, 81.) During the inveshsiof the Turks and Mongols the city was much ex­posed to ravages, and fell into decay, but the exist­ing remains still attest its former greatness. 'I lieruins near Jknisli are fully described in Pococke's,Chandler's, Cockerell s, Arundel's and Leaks'* week*.'• Nuthing," says Hamilton {Researches, rol. i. p.515), ''can exceed the desolation and melanchn}*'appearance of the site of Laodiceia; no pictnnr?-i*.efeatures in the nature of the ground on which itstands relieve the dnll uniformity of its undulating;and barren hills; and with few exception*, its gerrand widely scattered rains possess do architecturalmerit to attract the attention of the travrhVr. Y*tit is impossible to view them without interest, whenwe consider what Laodiceia once was, and htm It isconnected with the early history of Christianity. Its stadium, gymnasium, and theatres (sds> of which is in a state of great preservation, with its * Ptolemy (v. 2. § 18) and PhiUtratu* (I'ASoph. i. 23) call it a town of Caria, while NephasrasB. («. v.) describes it as belonging to Lydia; which arL.cs from the uncertain frontiers of these i