OCR Output 2b'2 ROMAN EMPIRE. ported above seventy miles from the gardens of Tayef.The fame and spirit of the Koreishites, who reigned inMecca, were conspicuous among the Arabian tribes; buttheir ungrateful soil refused the labours of agriculture,and their position was favourable to the enterprises oftrade. By the seaport of Gedda, at the distanceonly of forty miles, they maintained an easy cor­respondence with Abyssinia; and that Christian king­dom afforded the first refuge to the disciples of Maho­met. The treasures of Africa were conveyed over thepeninsula to Gerrha or Katiff, in the provinceof Bahrein,a city built, as it is said, of rock-salt, by the Chaldeanexiles :* and from thence, with the native pearls of the Per­sian gulf, they were floated on rafts to the mouth of theEuphrates. Meccais placed almost at an equal distance,amonth's journey, between Yemen on the right, and Syriaon the left, hand. The former was the winter, the latterthe summer, station of her caravans; and their seasonablearrival relieved the ships of India from the tedious andtroublesome navigation of the Red sea. In the marketsof Saana and Merab, in the harbours of Oman and Aden,the camels of the Koreishites were laden with a preciouscargo of aromatics; a supply of corn and manufactureswas purchased in the fairs of Bostra and Damascus; thelucrative exchange diffused plenty and riches in thestreets of Mecca; and the noblest of her sons unitedthe love of arms with the profession of merchandise."National The perpetual independence of the Arabs haseMaPofnd been the theme of praise among strangers andthe Arabs, llgjives. anj ^e arts Of controversy transform this singular event into a prophecy and a miracle, infavour of the posterity of Ismael.* Some exceptions 'Strabo, lib. 16. p. 1110. See one of these salt-houses near Bassora. in d'Her-belot, Bibliot . Orient . p. 6. "Mirum diem ex innumerii populis para aequain commerces aut in latrodniii de-git. (Plin. Hist. Nat . 6. 32.) See Hide's Koran, Sural. 106. p. 503. Pocock. Speci­men, p. 2. d'Herbelot, Bibliot. Orient, p. 361. Prideaux's Life of Mahomet, p. 5.Cagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 72. 120.126, &c. * A nameless doctor (Universal Hist. vol. 20. octavo edition) has formally demon-ii rat til the truth of Christianity by the independence of the Arabs. A critic, besides