OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 381 day, you will not always have. The same opportunitywill not last long, nor will it frequently recur. Youhave long wished to deliver yourselves out of the handsof Philip, although you have not dared to make theattempt. Those have now crossed the sea, with largefleets and armies, who are able to set you at liberty,without any trouble or danger to yourselves. If youreject such allies, the soundness of your understand足ings may be called in question; but you must, unavoid足ably, have to deal with them, either as friends or foes.'22. This speech of the pretor was followed by ageneral murmur; some declaring their approbation,and others sharply rebuking those who did so. Andnow, not only individuals, but whole states engaged inaltercation; and at length the magistrates, called de-miurguses, who are ten in number, took up the disputewith as much warmth as the multitude. Five of themdeclared that they would propose the question concern足ing an alliance with Rome, and would take the voteson it; while five insisted that there was a law, bywhich the magistrates were prohibited from proposing,and the council from decreeing, any thing injurious tothe alliance with Philip. This day, also, was spent incontention, and there remained now but one day more'of the regular time of sitting; for, according to therule, the decree must be passed on the third day; andas that approached, the zeal of the parties was kindledinto such a flame, that scarcely did parents refrain fromoffering violence to their own sons. There was presenta man of Pallene, named Rhisiasus, whose son Mem-non was a demiurgus, and was of that party which op足posed the reading of the decree and taking the votes.This man, for a long time, intreated his son to allowthe Achaeans to take proper measures for their commonsafety, and not, by his obstinacy, to bring ruin on thewhole nation; but, finding that his intreaties had noeffect, he swore that he would treat him, not as a son,but as an enemy, and would put him to death with hisown hand. By these threats he forced him, next day,to join the party that voted for the question being pro-