OCR Output k«. 37.] 537 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. of Cappadocia attests to what I have said;when he thus speaks: "Antony ordered An-tigonus the Jew to be brought to Antioch,and there to be beheaded. And this Antonyseems to have been the very first man whobeheaded a king; as supposing he could noother way bend the minds of the Jews, so asto receive Herod, whom he had made kingin his stead. For by no torments could theybe forced to call him king: so great a fondnessthey retained for their former king. So hethought that this dishonourable death woulddiminish the value they had for Antigonus'smemory; and at the same time would dimi­nish their hatred to Herod." CHAP. II. OF THE LIBERATION OF HYRCANUS BY THE PARTHIANS;AND OF THE ACTIONS OF ALEXANDRA, WHEN SHE HEARDTHAT ANANELUS WAS MADE HIGH-PRIEST. NOW after Herod was in possession ofthe kingdom, Hyrcanus, the high-priest,who was then a captive among the Parthians,came to him again, and was set free from hiscaptivity, in the following manner. Barza-pharnes and Pacorus, the generals of the Par­thians, took Hyrcanus, who was first madehigh-priest, and afterward king: and Herod'sbrother, Phasaelus, captives; and were car­rying them away into Parthia. Phasaelus in­deed could not bear the reproach of being inbonds; and thinking that death, with glory,was better than any life whatsoever, he be­came his own executioner; as I have *for-merly related. But when Hyrcanus was brought into Par­thia, the king Phraates treated him after avery gentle manner; as having already learn­ed of what an illustrious family he was. Onwhich account he set him free from his bonds;and gave him a habitation at fBabylon;where there were Jews in great numbers.The Jews honoured Hyrcanus as their high-formal sentence in Judicature, this sentence was executedupon him in the same manner as upon a common crimi­nal by the rods and axe of the victor, which the Romansnever before subjected any crowned head to. Prideaux'sConnection, part II. book 7. B. priest, and king; as did all the Jewish nationthat dwelt as far as Euphrates. This respectwas very much to his satisfaction. But whenhe was informed that Herod had received thekingdom, new hopes came upon him; as having been himself from the beginning of a kinddisposition towards him; and expecting thatHerod would bear in mind what favour he hadreceived from him; when he was upon histrial, and when he was in danger that a capi­tal sentence would be pronounced againsthim, he delivered him from that danger, andfrom all punishment. Accordingly he talkedof that matter with the Jews that came oftento him, with great affection. But they en­deavoured to retain him among them, and de­sired that he would stay with them; remind­ing him of the kind offices and honours theydid him; and that those honours they paidhim were not inferior to what they could payto either their high-priests, or their kings.And what was a greater motive to determinehim, they said, was this, that he could nothave those dignities in Judea; because ofthat maim in his body, which had been in­flicted on him by Antigonus: and that kingsdo not use to requite men for those kindnesseswhich they received when they were privatepersons; the height of their fortune makingusually no small changes in them. Now although they suggested these argu­ments to him for his own advantage, yet didHyrcanus still desire to depart. Herod alsowrote to him, and persuaded him to desire ofPhraates, and the Jews that were there, thatthey should not grudge him the royal autho­rity; which he should have jointly with him­self. For that now was the proper time forhimself to make him amends for the favourshe had received from him; as having beenbrought up by him, and saved by him also;as well as for Hyrcanus to receive it. And ashe wrote thus to Hyrcanus, so did he sendalso Saramallas, his ambassador, to Phraates, * See Book XIV. chap. 13. t The city here called Babylon by Josephus, seems tobe one which was built by some of the Seleucidae, uponthe Tigris; which long after the utter desolation of oldBabylon was commonly so called; and, I suppose, not far from Seleucia. Just as the latter adjoining city Bagdathad been, and is often called by the same old name ofBabylon till this very day. And a plain reason occurshere, which shews that Josephus meant no other than acity built on the Tigris; and this from his own way ofspeaking immediately; that not only the Jews at this Ba­bylon, but over all the country, as far as Euphrates, paidthis honour to Hyrcanus. Which surely implies, that thisBabylon did not lie upon Euphrates; as the old Babyloncertainly did. See Prideaux at the year 239, at large.