OCR Output CHAP. XLIY.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 383 equal freedom to the end of the Punic wars, the city wasnever disturbed by sedition, and rarely polluted withatrocious crimes. The failure of penal laws was moresensibly felt when every vice was inflamed by faction athome and dominion abroad. In the time of Cicero, eachprivate citizen enjoyed the- privilege of anarchy; eachminister of the republic was exalted to the temptationsof legal power, and their virtues are entitled to the warm­est praise as the spontaneous fruits of nature or philoso­phy. After a triennial indulgence of lust, rapine, andcruelty, Verres, the tyrant of Sicily, could only be suedfor the pecuniary restitution of three hundred thousandpounds sterling; and such was the temper of the laws,the judges, and perhaps the accuser himself/ that on re­funding a thirteenth part of his plunder, Verres couldretire to an easy and luxurious exile.1 The first imperfect attempt to restore the proportion Revival ofof crimes and punishments, was made by the dictatorSylla, who, in the midst of his sanguinary triumph, as­pired to restrain the licence, rather than to oppress theliberty, of the Romans. He gloried in the arbitrary pro­scription of four thousand seven hundred citizens.* Butin the character* of a legislator, he respected the prejudicesof the times; and instead of pronouncing a sentence ofdeath against the robber or assassin, the general who be­trayed an army, or the magistrate who ruined a province,Sylla was content to aggravate the pecuniary damages bythe penalty of exile, or, in more constitutional language,by the interdiction of fire and water. The Cornelian,and afterward the Pompeian and Julian laws, introduced T He first rated at millies (L. 800,000.) the damages of Sicily, (DivinatioinCasci-Uum, c. 5.) which he afterward reduced to quadringenties, (L. 320,000—-1. Actio inVerrem, c. 18.) and was finally content with tricies. (b. 24,000.) Plutarch inCice-ron. (torn. 3. p. 1584.) has not dissembled the popular suspicion and report. * Verres lived near thirty years after his trial, till the second triumvirate, whenhe was proscribed bv the taste of Mark Antony for the sake of his Corinthian plate.(Plin. Hist. Natur. 34. 3.) a Such is the number assigned by Valerius Maxima*, (lib. 9. c. 2. no. 1.) Floras(4. 21.) distinguishes two thousand senators and knights; Appiatt (de Bell. Civil,lib. 1. c. 95. torn. 2. p. 133. edit. Schweigteuser) more accurately computes fortyvictims of the senatorial! rank, and one thousand six hundred of the equestrian censusor order.