OCR Output 3r-2 MITHRIDATIUM. MISENUM. The name of the promontory of Misenum wm do- 1rived, according to a tradition very generally adoptedby the Roman writers, from the trumpeter of Aeneas,who was supposed to be buried there (Virg. Aen. vi.163,212—235; Propert.iv. 18. 3; Sil. Ital.xii.155;SUit Si'/r.iii. 1. 150; Mel. ii. 4. §9; Solin. 2. § 13).Another legend, however, seems to have representedMisenus as one of the companions of Ulysses (Strab.v. p. 245). There is no trace of the ezistencc of atown on the spot at an early period, though it isalmost certain that its secure and land-locked port(already alluded to by Lycophron, Alex. 737) musthave been turned to account by the Cumaeans duringthe period of their naval and commercial power. IBefore the close of the Roman Republic the actualpromontory of Misenum, as well as the neighbouring |chores of Bauli and Baiae, was become a favouriteKite for the villas of wealthy Romans; but it was nottill the reign of Augustus that any considerable po­pulation was collected there. That emperor first in­troduced the custom of maintaining a fleet for thedefence of the Tyrrhenian or Lower Sea, of whichMisenum was made the permanent station (Suet. ,Aug. 49; Tac. Ann. iv. 5), as it continued through- jout the period of the Kmpire. Thus we find the*' classis Misenensis'' continually alluded to by Ta­citus (Aim. ziv. 3, 62, zt. 51, Hist. ii. 100, iii.56, &c); and the elder 1'liny was stationed at Mi­senum in command of the fleet, when the memorable:eruption of Vesuvius broke out, in which he perished,A.D. 79, and of which his nephew has left us so inte­resting an account (£)*. vi. 16, 20). At a muchlater period we find the establishment of a fleet atMisenum, with a legion specially organised for itsservice, referred to as a permanent institution, bothby Vegetius and the Notitia. (Vcget. v. 1, 2; NotiLJjif/n ii. p. 118.) There can be no doubt that inconsequence of this important establishment a con- Isiderable town grew up around the port of Misenum;and we learn from several inscriptions that it pos­sessed municipal privileges, and even bore the title ofa colony. (Orell. Inter. 3772; Mommsen, /. R. N.2575—2577.) But the " Misena'es," whose name Jfrequently occurs in inscriptions, arc in general thesoldiers of the fleet (Milites cl'iAsis praetoriae Mi-tnuifiutn, Mommsen, L c. 2725, &c), not the inha­bitants of the town. Before it l>ecamc thus memorable as the station ofthe Roman fleet, Misenum was remarkable in historyfor the interview between Octavian and Antony andSextus I*ompeius, in which the two former were re­ceived by Sextus on board bis ship, and a treaty wasconcluded for the division of the Roman Empire be­tween the three contracting parties. It was on thisoccasion that his admiral Menas proposed to I'ompeyto cut the cables and carry the two triumvirs oft" tosea. (I'lut Ant 32; Dion Cass, xlviii. 36; Veil.Pat. ii. 77.) At a somewhat earlier period Ciceronotices it as having been infested by the Cilician pi­rates, who carried off from thence the daughters ofM. Antonius, who had himself carried on the waragainst them. (Cic pro Leg. Manii. 12.) Welearn from I'luUrch that C. Man us had a villa there,which he describes as more splendid and luxuriousthan was suited to the character of the man (Tint.Mar. 34); nevertheless it was then far inferior towhat it became in the hands of L. Lucullus, whosubsequently purchased it for a sum of 2,500,000denarii, ami adorned it with his usual magnificence.It subsequently passed into the hands of the emperorTiberius, who appears to have not unfrequently made it his residence; and who ultimately dialthere, on the 16th of March, a. d. 37. The villaitself is described as situated on the summit of thehill, commanding an extensive view over the .mb;but it is evident, from the account of its vast Mib-strnctions and subterranean galleries. &c, that itmust have comprised within its grounds the greaterpart of the promontory. (I'lut. L c. LuculL 3V;Seneca, Ep. 51; Tac Ann. vi. 50; Suet. TA, 7%73; Dion Cass. Iviii. 28; I'haedr. Fat. ii. 36.)Besides this celebrated villa of Lucullus. we le*rnfrom Cicero that M. Antonius the orator had a villaat Misenum, and that the triumvir, his grandson,made it a frequent place of residence, (Cic dm Or.ii. 14, ad Att. x. 8, xiv. 20, Phil. ii. 19.) At amuch later period Misenum became the place ofexile or confinement of the unhappy Romulus Au-gustulus, the last emperor of the Weft, to wb<4nthe villa of Lucullus was assigned as a place rfresidence by Odoacer after his deposition, a. ix. 476.(Jornand.6Vf.4G. Marcellin. C'hron. p.44.) Horse*notices the sea off Cape Misenum as celebrated farits echini or sea-urchins. (Hor. Sat it. 4. 33.) Some ruins, still extant near the summit of thehill, are in nil probability those of the villa of Lo-cnllus. Of the town of Misenum the remains anbut inconsiderable; they are situated on the S. sideof the Porto di Miseno, at a place now calledCasaluce; while those uf a theatre are situated asa spot called // Fomo, a little further to toe W„just where the inner basin or Mare Mortn oprtuinto the outer port. The two were srparuied laancient times by a bridge of three arches, which La*recently been replaced by a closed caimeway, Lteeffect of which has been to cause both the itn^rbasin and outer harbour to 611 up with £reax rapi­dity, and the latter has in consequence bec»«r*almost m-eless. In the sides of the hill at the beat!of the port, and on the N. of the Mare Mario wexcavated numerous sepulchres, which, as we learnfrom the inscriptions discovered there, are those atofficers and soldiers of the fleet stationed at Mi­senum. Many of these inscriptions are of ootvsiderable interest, as throwing liirht upcrn the n-;-litary and naval institutions of the Roman Empire.They are all collected by Mommsen (/asrr. ibyavNeap. pp. 145— 154). [E. H. B.] MISE'TL'S (Murirro'f: EtJi. Mar^rioj, Steps- R),a town of Macedonia, the position of which is un­determined. [E. B. J.] MI'STHIUM (HiVAov), * town of the nmntaiatribe of the Orondici in the north of Pisidta (Ptoi- v.4. § 12), and probably tlie same as the town <sfMistheia, which Hierocles (p.G25) places in Lyrspaua.The latter name occurs also in other late entm,as Theopltanes (CAron. p. 320) and KtcepcWwe(c. 20). [L. S.] MISUA. [Carthago, VoLL p. 551, a.] MISL'LAM. [McsruuH ] M1THH1DAT1S RK'GIO (t/ MidptUrov x«*a.Ptol. v. 9. § 19), a district of Asiatic Sannaxat,E of tlie Hippici Montea. It derived its name frenMithridates, king of the Bosporus, whom Vaulloat(Achaemenidftiitm Im/trr. vol. ii. p. 246) call* et^-h:hof that name, ami who fled to thui c*.-unify Carrefuge in the reign of the emperor Claudius. (F«a.vi.5:Tac^na.xii. 15 ; Dion Casalx.%.) [LIU] MITHRIDATIUM (Mif^oarisw), a fcrtreae ithe Trocmi, situated on the frontiers of 'f-^iTia mtmiPont us. Afier tlie subjugation of Pantos by tbaRomans, Porauejr touk Mithridatiom frven 1Vcj.lv