OCR Output 334 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. VI. OF THE ANOINTING OF JEHU; THE DEATH OF JORAM ANDAHAZIAH; AND THE PUNISHMENT OF THE IDOLATROUSISRAELITES. NOW* Joram, king of Israel, after thedeath of Benhadad, hoped that hemight take Ramoth, a city of Gilead, fromthe Syrians. Accordingly he made an ex­pedition against it, with a great army. Butas he was besieging it, an arrow was shot athim by one of the Syrians; but the woundwas not mortal. So he returned to have hiswound healed in Jezreel; but left his wholearmy in Ramoth, and Jehu the son of Nimshifor their general: for he had already takenthe city by force: and he proposed, after hewas healed, to make war with the Syrians.But Elisha the prophet sent one of the dis-ciplest to RamothJ to anoint Jehu;|| and totell him, that God had chosen him to be theirking. He also sent him to say other things to him, and bade him take his journey, as ifhe fled; that when he came away, he mightescape the knowledge of all men. So whenhe was come to the city, he found Jehu sit­ting in the midst of the captains of the army:and said, that he desired to speak with himabout certain matters. And when he had fol­lowed him into an inner chamber, the youngman took the holy oil, and poured it on hishead, and said, that God ordained him to beking, in order to his destroying the house ofAhab; and that he might revenge the bloodof the prophets, that were unjustly slain byJezebel, that so their house might utterlyperish; as those of Jeroboam the son ofNebat. and of Baasha had perished for theirwickedness, and no seed might remain ofAhab's family. And when he had said this,he went hastily out of that chamber, and en­deavoured not to be seen by any of the army.When Jehu§ returned to the place wherehe before sat with the captains, they asked * An. 886. t The Jewish doctors are of opinion, that the prophetwhom Elisha sent upon this message, was Jonah; butupon this supposition, he must at this time, have beena very young man, because Jeroboam the Second (inwhose reign Jonah prophesied, did not ascend the thronetill about fifty years after this unction of Jehu king ofIsrael. However this be, it is reasonable to think, thatElisha himself did not go to perform this office, eitherbecause he was now grown old, and unfit for such ajourney, or because he was a person too well known,and not so proper to be employed in an affair that re­quired secrecy. Calmefs and Patrick's Commenta­ries. B. { It is supposed by some interpreters, that the cityof Raraoth-Gilead was taken by Joram, before he de­parted from it to be cured of his wounds. This theygather from the mention made of the inner chamber,2 Kings ix. 2. the top of the stairs, ver. 13. and from thatcaution which Jehu thinks advisable, Let none go forth,or escape out of the city, ver. 15. But these argumentswill not do. What we render out of the city, does sig­nify, every whit as properly, from before the city, i. e.out of the camp or army that is besieging the city. Buteven, if this be not so, the Israelites might, at this time,have the suburbs, or out-buildings belonging to thecity, in their possession, where the general might havehis head-quarters, and from whence he might give orderso the picket-guard, (as we call it,) that none should bepermitted to move. For had the town been already intheir hands, we cannot see why Joram should havekept all Israel there, ver. 14. i. e. all the military force ofIsrael, when a strong garrison would have been sufficient.Pool's Annotations. B. II The Jews are of opinion, that none of the kings ofIsrael were anointed, but those that were of the house ofDavid, and these only, when there was a question about their succession, as Solomon, they say needed not to havebeen anointed, had it not been for the faction of Ado-nijah. But in the case of Jehu, in whom the successionof the kingdom of Israel was to be translated out of theright line of the family of Ahab, into another family whichhad no right to the kingdom, but merely the appointmentof God, there was a necessity for his unction, in orderboth to convey to him a title, and to invest him in the ac­tual possession of the kingdom: for if that (which someimagine from 1 Kings xix. 16) be true, viz. that the pro­phet Elisha did, before this time, anoint Jehu, that unctiondid only confer on him a remote right to the kingdom,in the same manner as Samuel's unction did to David,1 Sam. xvi. 13. Patrick's Commentary, and Pool's Anno­tations. B. § The officers who were in company with Jehu, mighteasily perceive by the habit, and air, and manner ofspeech of the person who accosted Jehu so boldly, andwhen he had done his business, vanished so suddenly,that he was a prophet; but then there might be severalreasons which might induce men of the profession tohave a contemptible opinion of men of that order. Therigid and obscure course of life which the prophets led,their neglect of themselves, and of the things of thisworld, might pass with them for a kind of infatuation;and the holy exercises to which they devoted themselves,for no more than a religious frenzy. Besides this, thefalse prophets which they had seen in the court of Ahabhad given just offence; and by their affected gestures,and studied contortions, (whereby they thought to re­commend their crude enthusiasm,) made themselvesjustly ridiculous and contemptible. And tkerefore it isno wonder that these officers, at first sight, should censurea true, as they thought they had reason to judge of thefalse prophet, with whom they had been acquainted;especially when we find some leading men in the tribeof Judah treating the prophets of the Lord (as in the case