OCR Output 316 TITUS LIVUUS' , BOOK IV, CHAP. IV. In continuation. 1 GRANT you that no Plebeian has been made con­sul, since the expulsion of the kings; and pray, whatthen? Are we never to think of any new institution?In an infant state as this is, how many regulations muststill be wanting? and must these, however necessary,and essential, be for ever excluded? In the reign ofRoruulus, whoever heard of priests or augurs? but theyware instituted by NumaPompilius. In the city therewas originally no census, no distribution of the peopleinto centuries and classes, till they were appointed byServius Tullius. The title of consul never existed, tillconsuls were created after the expulsion of kings. Wasthere ever a dictator, either in name or authority, till thesenate brought that office into existence? There wasa time when tribunes, ediles, and quaestors were un­known; but it was determined that they should b.e.Within these ten years, we made decemvirs for com­piling laws, and we have also unmade them. Whocan imagine, in a city which is to endure for ever, andis increasing to infinity, b'ut that new offices, priest­hoods, privileges and laws, will be instituted both forfamilies and individuals? This very law, which prohi­bits intermarriages between the two orders of the state,was it not passed by the decemvirs a few years ago, tothe disgrace of'the public, and the detriment of thepeople? Can any thing in effect be more expressive ofcontempt, more scandalous and disgraceful, than to de­clare one part of the city so impure and unclean, thatit is unworthy to be allied with the other in marriage?What is it else than to be subjected to a sequestration,a banishment within these walls? They are all uponthe watch to prevent every connection with us by af­finity or relation, and particularly that there may beno mixture of blood. What is the meaning of all this?If this nobility of yours has been polluted in this way,which, after all, the greatest part of you, who are de­scended of the Albines or Sabines, owe neither to your