OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XXXXI. obstinate bigots, who refused their contributions, werewhipped through the streets by the hand of the execu­tioner. This simple act of justice exasperated the dis­content of the Catholics, who applauded the merit andpatience of these holy confessors; three hundred pulpitsdeplored the persecution of the church; and if the chapelof St. Stephen at Verona was demolished by the com­mand of Theodoric, it is probable that some miracle hos­tile to his name and dignity had been performed on thatsacred theatre. At the close of a glorious life, the kingof Italy discovered that he had excited the hatred of apeople whose happiness he had so assiduously labouredto promote; and his mind was soured by indignation,jealousy, and the bitterness of unrequited love. TheGothic conqueror condescended to disarm the unwarlikenatives of Italy, interdicting all weapons of offence, andexcepting only a small knife for domestic use. The de­liverer of Rome was accused of conspiring with the vilestinformers against the lives of senators whom he suspectedof a secret and treasonable correspondence with the By­zantine court.5 After the death of Anastasius, the dia­dem had been placed on the head of a feeble old man;but the powers of government were assumed by his ne­phew Justinian, who already meditated the extirpation ofheresy, and the conquest of Italy and Africa. A rigor­ous law, which was published at Constantinople, to reducethe Arians by the dread of punishment within the paleof the church, awakened the just resentment of Theo­doric, who claimed, for his distressed brethren of the east,the same indulgence which he had so long granted tothe Catholics of his dominions. At his stern command,the Roman pontiff, with four illustrious senators, em­barked on an embassy, of which he must have alikedreaded the failure or the success. The singular vene­ration shewn to the first pope who had visited Constan- « Rex avidus communis exitii, &c. (BoeUiius. lib. 1. p. 59.) rex dolam Komanistendebat. (Auonym. Vales, p. 723.) These are hard words: they speak the passionsof the Italians, and those (1 fear) of Theodoric himself.