OCR Output 34 THEHISTORY B o o K common language could they have communicated?L._^'- . or with what fafety could a fingle man have madehis way thither, through fo many nations differing intheir language and manners? I therefore rather be­lieve, that his mind was, by nature, furnifhed withvirtuou:; difpofitions, and that the inftructions whichhe received were, notfo much, in foreign learning, asin the coarie and fevere difcipline of the Sabines,than whom no race of men were lefs corrupted byrefinements. On hearing the name of Numa Pom-pilius, although the Roman fathers faw that the ba­lance of power would incline to .the Sabines, if theking were chofen from among them, yet, no oneprefumingto prefer himfelf, or any other of his ownparty, or, in fhort, any one of the fathers, or ci­tizens, to him, they all, to a man, concurred invoting that the kingdom fhould be conferred onY. R. Numa Pompilius. When he arrived, in conlc-B39c. quence of their invitation, he ordered, that, as Ro-7.13. mulus, on the founding of the city, had obtained the.. fpvereign power by an augury, fo the gods fhouldbe confulted, in like manner, concerning himfelf.Accordingly, being conducted into the citadel by anaugur, to which profefEon was annexed, for everafter, by public authority, the honour of perform­ing that folemn office, he fat down on a ftone withhis face turned towards the South: the augur tookhis feat at his left hand, with his head covered, hold­ing in his right hand a crooked wand free from knots,•which they called lituus; then, taking a view to­wards the city, and the adjacent country, after offer­ing prayers to the gods, he marked out the regionsof the f ky from Haft to Weft; the parts toward theSooth, he called the right, thofe toward the North,the left; and, in front of him, he marked, in hismind, a boundary at the greateft diftance that hiseye could reach. Then, ihifting the lituus into hisleft hand, and laying his right on Numa's head, hegrayed in this manner: " Father Jupiter, if it is thy "will