OCR Output 136 ANTIQUITIES OF TH£ JEWS. Book XII. the kingdom of Egypt, and held it forty years within one.He procured the * law to be interpreted; and set free those thatwere come from Jerusalem into Egypt, and were in slaverythere, who were an hundred and twenty thousand. The occa­sion was this: Demetrius Phalerius, who was library keeper tothe king, was now endeavouring, if it were possible, to gathertogether all the books that were in the habitable earth, andbuying whatsoever was any where valuable, or agreeable tothe king's inclination, (who was very earnestly set upon collect­ing of books;) to which inclination of his Demetrius was zeal­ously subservient. And when once Ptolemy asked him, Howmany ten thousands of books he had collected? he replied, Thathe had already about twenty times ten thousand, but that, in alittle time, he should have fifty times ten thousand. But hesaid, he had been informed that there were many books of lawsamong the Jews, worthy of inquiring after, and worthy of theking's library, but which being written in characters and in adialect of their own, will cause no small pains in getting themtranslated into the Greek tongue; that the character in whichthey are written seems to be like to that which is the propercharacter of the Syrians, and that its sound, when pronounced,is like theirs also; and that this sound appears to be peculiar tothemselves. Wherefore he said, that nothing hindered, whythey might not get those books to be translated also, for whilenothing is wanting that is necessary for that purpose, we mayhave their books also in this library. So the king thought thatDemetrius was very zealous to procure him abundance of-books,and that he suggested what was exceeding proper for him to do;and therefore he wrote to the Jewish high priest, that he should'act accordingly. 2. Now there was one Aristeus, who was among the king'smost intimate friends, and on account of his modesty veryacceptable to him. This Aristeus resolved frequently, and thatbefore now, to petition the king, that he would set all the cap­tive Jews in his kingdom free; and he thought this to be a con­venient opportunity for the making that petition. So he dis­coursed, in the first place, with the captains of the king's guards,Sosibius of Tarentum, and Andreas; and persuaded them toassist him in what he was going to intercede with the king for * Of the translation of the other parts of the Old Testament by seventy EgyptianJews, in the reign of Ptolemy the son of Lagus, and Philadelphia; as also of the