OCR Output 348 [book IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. l*>. ss and to go away, and so put an end to thewar. This sum the multitude collected forMenahem, by exacting *fifty fdrachmae, as Soil-money for every head. After which heied, and was buried in Samaria, and lefthis son Pekahiah his successor in the king­dom. This prince followed the barbarity ofhis father, and so ruled but two years only:after which he was slain with his friends ata feast, by the treachery of one Pekah, thegeneral of his horse, and the son of Rema-liah, who laid snares for him. Now this Pe­kah held the government twenty years,J andproved a wicked man, and a transgressor.But the king of Assyria, whose name wasTiglath-Pileser, when he had made an expe­dition against the Israelites, and had over-runall the land of Gilead, and the region beyondJordan, and the adjoining country, which iscalled Galilee, and Kadesh, and Hazor; hemade the inhabitants prisoners, and trans­planted them into his own kingdom. Now Jotham, the son of Uzziah, reignedover the tribe of Judah in Jerusalem: beinga citizen thereof by his mother, whose namewas Jerusha. This king was not defective inany virtue;|| but was religious towards God,and righteous towards men, and careful ofthe good of the city, for what parts soeverwanted to be repaired or adorned, he mag­nificently repaired and adorned them. Healso took care of the foundations of thecloisters in the temple, and repaired thewalls that were fallen down, and built very great towers, and such as were almost im­pregnable: and if any thing else in his king­dom had been neglected, he took great careof it. He also made an expedition againstthe Ammonites, and overcame them in battle,and ordered them to pay an annual tributeof a hundred talents, and ten thousand coriof wheat, and as many of barley: and soaugmented his kingdom, that his enemiescould not despise it, and his own peoplelived happily. There was at this time a prophet,§ calledNahum; who spake after this manner con­cerning the overthrow of the Assyrians, andof Nineveh:** "Nineveh shall be a pool ofwater in motion; so shall all her people betroubled and tossed, and go away by flight:while they say one to another, stand, standstill; seize their gold and silver, for thereshall be none to wish them well. For theywill rather save their lives than their money:For a terrible contention shall possess themone with another, and lamentation, and loos­ing of the members; and their countenancesshall be perfectly black with fear. Andwhere will be the den of the lions, and themother of the young lions? God says to thee,Nineveh, that they shall deface thee, andthe lions shall no longer go out from thee,to give laws to the world." And indeedthis prophet prophesied many other thingsbesides these concerning Nineveh; which Ido not think necessary to repeat: and I hereomit them, that I may not appear trouble-drawn into idolatry; that Rehoboam forsook the law ofthe Lord, and Abijah walked in his steps; that Asa sentthe treasures of the temple to the king of Syria, and putthe prophet in the stocks; that Jehoshaphat entered intosociety with the idolatrous; and so he .goes on with allthe rest. But in Jotham, says he, there is no fault found,which, in an age of general corruption, is pretty wonder­ful, unless we may suppose, that the people's sacrificingand burning incense still on high places, 2 Kings xv. 35.(which he by his authority might have removed,) be im­putable to him as a fault. Patrick's Commentary. B. * Dr. Wall, in his critical notes on 2 Kings xv. 20.observes, that "When this Menahem is said to haveexacted the money of Israel, of all the mighty men ofwealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give Pul,king of Assyria, 1000 talents; this is the first publicmoney raised by any Israelitish king, by a tax on the peo­ple: that they used before to raise it out of the treasuresof the house of the Lord, or out of their own house; thatit was the poll-money on the rich men, and them only,lo raise 353,000/. or, as others count a talent, 400,000Z.at the rate of 61. or 11. per head:—and that God com­manded by Ezekiel, chap. xlv. 8. and xlvi. 18. that nosuch things should be done at the Jews' restoration; butjthe king should have land of his own." See also thesame notes on 2 Kings xxiii. 35. and on 2 Chron. xxxvi.3, 4. t Shekels, Hebrew and Septuagint. t From an. 760 to 740. if Solomon Jarchi here observes that all the kings ofJudah had some crime or other laid to their charge, ex­cept this Jotham. That David himself sinned grievouslyin the matter of Uriah; that Solomon by his wives was § About an. 726. ** This passage is taken out of the prophet Nahum, ii.8—13. and is the principal, or rather the only one thatis given us verbatim, but a little abridged, in Josephus'swritings. By which quotation we learn what he himselfalways asserts, viz. that he made use of the Hebrew ori­ginal, and not of the Greek version: as also we learn, thathis Hebrew copy considerably differed from ours. Seeall three texts particularly set down and compared toge­ther in the Essay on the Old Testament, page 187, 188,189.