OCR Output 184 THE TEMPLE. [B. V. 5. When any persons entered into the temple, its floor re足ceived them. This part of the temple, therefore, was in heightsixty cubits, and its length the same, whereas its breadth wasbut twenty cubits: but still that sixty cubits in length wasdivided again, and the first part of it was cut off at fortycubits, and had in it three things that were very wonderfuland famous among all mankind ; the candlestick, the table [ofshow-bread,] and the altar of incense. Now, the seven lampssignified the seven planets, for so many there were springingout of the candlestick. Now, the twelve loaves that were uponthe table signified the circle of the zodiac and the year; butthe altar of incense, by its thirteen kinds of sweet-smellingspices, with which the sea replenished it, signified that Godis the possessor of all things that are both in the uninhabitableand habitable parts of the earth, and that they are all to bededicated to his use. But the inmost part of the temple of allwas of twenty cubits. This was also separated from the outerpart by a veil. In this there was nothing at all. It was in足accessible and inviolable, and not to be seen by any, and wascalled the Holy of Holies. Now, about the sides of the lowerpart of the temple there were little houses, with passages outof one into another: there were a great many of them, andthey were of three stories high ; there were also entrances oneach side into them from the gate of the temple. But thesuperior part of the temple had no such little houses any far足ther, because the temple was there narrower, and forty cubitshigher, and of a smaller body than the lower parts of it. Thuswe collect that the whole height, including the sixty c.ubits . from the floor, amounted to a hundred cubits. 6. Now, the outward face of the temple, in its front,wanted nothing that was likely to surprise either men'sminds or their eyes; for it was covered all over with platesof gold of great weight, and, at the first rising of the sun, re足flected back a very fiery splendor, and made those whoforced themselves to look upon it to turn their eyes away,just as they would have done at the sun's own rays. Butthis temple appeared to strangers, when they were comingto it at a distance, like a mountain covered with snow; for