OCR Output /)38 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS ■! and many presents with him: and desiredhim, in the most obliging way, that he wouldbe no hindrance to his gratitude toward hisbenefactor. But this zeal of Herod's didnot flow from that principle: but becausehe had been made governor of that countrywithout having any just claim to it, he wasafraid afterward of a change in his condi­tion: and so made what haste he could toget Hyrcanus into his power: or indeed toput him quite out of the way. Which lastthing he effected. Accordingly, when Hyrcanus came, full ofassurance, by the permission of the king ofParthia, and at the expense of the Jews, whosupplied him with money: Herod receivedhim with all possible respect, and gave himthe upper place at public meetings, and sethim above all the rest at feasts: and therebydeceived him. He called him his father; andendeavoured, by all the ways possible, that hemight have no suspicion of any treacherousdesign against him. He also did other thingsin order to secure his government: which yetoccasioned a sedition in his own family. Forbeing cautious how he made any *illustriousperson the high-priest of God, he sent for anobscure priest out of Babylon, whose namewas Ananelus, and bestowed the high-priest­hood upon him. However, Alexandra, the daughter of Hyr­canus, and wife of Alexander, the son ofAristobulus the king, who had also broughtAlexander two children, could not bear thisindignity. Now this son was one of thegreatest comeliness, and was called Aristo­bulus: and the daughter Mariamne was mar­ried to Herod, and eminent for her beautyalso. This Alexandra was much disturbed,and took the indignity offered to her sonexceeding ill: that while he was alive, anyone else should be sent for to have the dig­nity of the high-priesthood conferred uponhim. Accordingly she wrote to Cleopatra,(a musician assisting her in taking care to have her letters carried;) to desire her in­tercession with Antony, in order to gain thehigh-priesthood for her son. But as Antony was slow in granting thisrequest, his friend fDellius came into Judeaupon some affairs; and when he saw Aristo­bulus, he stood in admiration at the tallnessand handsomeness of the child; and no less atMariamne the king's wife: and was open inhis commendations of Alexandra, as themother of most beautiful children. And whenshe came to discourse with him, he persuadedher to get pictures drawn of them both, andto send them to Antony: for that when hesaw them, he would deny her nothing thatshe should ask. Accordingly Alexandra waselevated with these words of his, and sentthe pictures to Antony. Dellius also talkedextravagantly, and said, that these childrenseemed not derived from men, but from somegod. His design in doing so was to enticeAntony into lewd pleasures with them. Hewas ashamed to send for the damsel, as beingthe wife of Herod; and avoided it, becauseof the reproaches he should have from Cleo­patra on that account: but he sent, in themost decent manner he could, for the youngman: but added this withal, "Unless hethought it hard upon him so to do." Whenthis letter was brought to Herod, he did notthink it safe to send one so handsome as wasAristobulus, in the prime of his life; (for hewas sixteen years of age, and of so noble afamily:) and particularly not to Antony, theprincipal man among the Romans, and theone that would abuse him in his amours; andbesides, one that openly indulged himself insuch pleasures as his power allowed him,without control. He therefore wrote backto him, that "If this boy should only go outof the country, all would be in a state of warand uproar; because the Jews were in hopesof a change in the government; and to haveanother king over them." When Herod had thus excused himself to * Here we have an eminent example of Herod'sworldly and profane politics; when, by the abuse of hisunlawful and usurped power, to make whom he pleasedhigh-priest, in the person of Ananelus, he occasioned suchdisturbances in his kingdom, and in his own family, assuffered him to enjoy no lasting peace or tranquillity everafterward. And such is frequently the effect of profanecourt politics about matters of religion in other ages andnations. The Old Testament is full of the miseries of the people of the Jews derived from such court politics:especially in, and after the days of Jeroboam, the son ofNebat, who made Israel to sin; who gave the most per­nicious example of it; who brought on the grossest cor­ruption of religion by it; and the punishment of whosefamily for it was most remarkable. The case is too wellknown to require particular citations. t Of this wicked Dellius, see the note On the War,I. 15.