OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. by the clamorous return of the murderers, bearing on a lance thehead of Pertinax. T hough history has accustomed us to .observeevery principle and every passion yield to the imperious dictates ofambition, it is scarcely credible that, in these- moments o,f horrot^Sulpicianus should have aspired to ascend,a throne streaming with,the blood of so near a relation, and so excellent a prince. He hadalready begun to use the only, effectual argument, and to treat forthe Imperial dignity?; but the. more pr-udent of the Prætorians, ap(^tprehensive thatj in this private contract, they should not obtain ajust price for so valuable a commodity, ran out upon the ramparts;and, with a loud voice, proclaimed that the Roman world was tobe disposed of-to the best bidder by public .auction . ' . . , This infamous offer, the most insolent excess of military licence,.Itii'purchaseddiffused a universal grief* shame, and indignation throughout the A. D. 193.cjty. It reached at length the ears of Didius Julianus, a wealthy March28th-senator, who, regardless of the public calamities, was indulging him-rself in the luxury of the tables. : His wife and his daughter, his,'freedmen and his parasites, easily convinced him that he deservedthe throne, and earnestly conjured him to embrace so fortunatean opportunity. The vain old man hastened to the Prætorian camp,where Sulpicianus was still in treaty with the guards; and began to,bid against him from the foot of the rampart. The unworthy ne-gociation was transacted by faithful emissaries, who passed alter­nately from one candidate to. the other, and acquainted each of them,,with the offers of his rival. Sulpicianus had already promised adonative of five thousand drachms (above one hundred and sixtypounds) to each soldier; when Julian, eager for the prize, rose' atonce to the sum of six thousand two hundred and fifty drachms, orupwards of two hundred pounds sterling. The gates of the campwere instantly thrown open to the purchaser; he was declared em­peror, and received an oath of allegiance from the soldiers, who re­tained