OCR Output CHAP. L. 333 Disdaining the penance and merit of a hermit, he ob­served without effort or vanity, the abstemious diet ofan Arab and a soldier. On solemn occasions he feastedhis companions with rustic and hospitable plenty; butin his domestic life, many weeks would elapse withouta fire being kindled on the hearth of the prophet. Theinterdiction of wine was confirmed by his example; hishunger was appeased with a sparing allowance of barley-bread; he delighted in the taste of milk and honey; buthis ordinary food consisted of dates and water. Per­fumes and women were the two sensual enjoymentswhich his nature required and his religion did not forbid:and Mahomet affirmed, that the fervour of his devotionwas increased by these innocent pleasures. The heatof the climate inflames the blood of the Arabs; and theirlibidinous complexion has been noticed by the writersof antiquity.1 Their incontinence was regulated by thecivil and religious laws of the Koran: their incestuousalliances were blamed, the boundless licence of poly­gamy was reduced to four legitimate wives or concu­bines; their right both of bed and of dowry were equi­tably determined; the freedom of divorce was discou­raged, adultery was condemned as a capital offence, andfornication, in either sex, was punished with a hundredstripes.7 Such were the calm and rational precepts ofthe legislator: but in his private conduct, Mahomet in­dulged the appetites of a man, and abused the claims ofa prophet. A special revelation dispensed him fromthe laws which he had imposed on his nation; the femalesex, without reserve, was abandoned to his desires; andthis singular prerogative excited the envy, rather thanthe scandal, the veneration rather than the envy, of thedevout Mussulmans. If we remember the seven.' hundred wives and three hundred concubines of 1 Incredible est quo ardore apud eos in venerem uterque solvitur sexus. (Am-mian. Marcellin. lib. 14. c. 4.) T Sale (Preliminary Discourse, p. 133—137.) has recapitulated the laws of mar­riage, divorce, &c. and the curious reader of Selden's Uxor Hebraica will recog­nize many Jewish ordinances.