OCR Output 132 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI. for Alexander, when he saw the multitude at a distance, in whitegarments, while the priest stood clothed with fine linen, and thehigh priest in purple and scarlet clothing, with his mitre on hishead, having the golden plate whereon the name of God wasengraved, he approached by himself, and adored that name, andfirst saluted the high priest. The Jews also did altogether, withone voice, salute Alexander, and encompass him about: Where­upon the king of Syria, and the rest, were surprised at whatAlexander had done, and supposed him disordered in his mind.However, Parmenio alone went up to him, and asked him,"How it came to pass, that when all others adored him, he"should adore the high priest of the Jews?" To whom he re­plied, " I did not adore him, but that God who hath honoured"him with his high priesthood; for I saw this very person in"a dream, in this very habit, when I was at Dios in Mace-"donia, who, when I was considering with myself how I might"obtain the dominion of Asia, exhorted me to make no delay,"but boldly to pass over the sea thither, for that he would eon-"duct my army, and would give me the dominion over the"Persians; whence it is, that having seen no other in that ha-"bit, and now seeing this person in it, and remembering that"vision, and the exhortation which I had in my dream, I believe"that I bring this army under the divine conduct, and shall"therewith conquer Darius, and destroy the power of the Per-"sians, and that all things will succeed according to what is in"my own mind." And when he had said this to Parmenio,and had given the high priest his right hand, the priests ranalong by him, and he came into the city. And when he went upinto the temple, he offered sacrifice to God, according to thehigh priest's direction; and magnificently treated both the highpriest and the priests. And when the * book of Daniel wasshowed him, wherein Daniel declared that one of the Greeksshould destroy the empire of the Persians, he supposed that him­self was the person intended: And as he was then glad, he dis­missed the multitude for the present, but the next day he calledthem to him, and bid them ask what favours they pleased ofhim; whereupon the high priest desired that they might enjoythe laws of their forefathers, and might pay no tribute on theseventh year. He granted all they desired. And when theyentreated him that he would permit the Jews in Babylon andMedia to enjoy their own laws also, he willingly promised to dohereafter what they desired. And when he said to the multi­tude, that if any of them would list themselves in his army, onthis condition that they should continue under the laws of their * The place showed Alexander, might be Dan. vii. 3—8, 20, 21, 22. xi. 3.tome or all of them very olain oredii'tions of A lexander's conriuoits and successors.