OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 489 season, presumptuously disturbed the service of the assembly, andby their pride or mistaken zeal they introduced, particularly into theapostolic church of Corinth, a long and melancholy train of dis­orders ,oS. As the institution of prophets became useless, and evenpernicious, their powers were withdrawn, and their office abolished.The public functions of religion were solely entrusted to the esta­blished ministers of the church, the bi/hops and the presbyters; twoappellations which, in their first origin, appear to have distinguishedthe same office and the same order of persons. The name of Pres­byter was expressive of their age, or rather of their gravity andwisdom. The title of Bishop denoted their inspection over the faithand manners of the christians who were committed to their pastoralcare. In proportion to the respective numbers of the faithful, alarger or smaller number of these episcopal presbyters guided eachinfant congregation with equal authority, and with unitedcounsels Io6. But the most perfect equality of freedom requires the directing institution ofhand of a superior magistrate; and the order of public deliberations presidents ofsoon introduces the office of a president invested at least with the prlityten! °fauthority of collecting the sentiments, and of executing the re­solutions, of the assembly. A regard for the public tranquillity,which would so frequently have been interrupted by annual or byoccasional elections, induced the primitive christians to constitute anhonourable and perpetual magistracy, and to choose one of the wisestand most holy among their presbyters to execute, during his life, theduties of their ecclesiastical governor. It was under these circum­stances that the lofty title of Bishop began to raise itself above thehumble appellation of presbyter; and while the latter remained themost natural distinction for the members of every christian senate,the former was appropriated to the dignity of its new president '°7.The advantages of this episcopal form of governments which ap­pears to have been introduced before the end of the first century ,0%, Vol. L R r r were