OCR Output Go8 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA, makes them to be colonies of their more celebratednamesakes, in opposition to the testimony ot' Straho,ami without producing any counter authority. Theisle of Tylus or Tyrus is likewise mentioned byPliny (vi. 32). The account given by Justin is inharmony with these authorities (xviii 3). He de­scribes the Tyrians as having been disturbed in theirnative seats by an earthquake, and as migratingthence, first to what lie calls the "Assyrian lake,"and subsequently to the shores of the Mediterranean.A recent writer (Kenrick, Phoenicia^ p. 47) takesthis Assyrian lake to have been Gennesaret or theDead Sea, as there was no other collection of watersin S. Assyria to which the term could be applied.This would have funned a natural resting-place inthe journey of the emigrants. It must not, however,be concealed, that the account of the.-e writers hasbeen rejected by several very eminent authors, asBuchart, Hengstenberg, Heeren, Niebuhr, and others,and more recently by Movers, a writer who has paidgreat attention to Phoenician history, and who hasdiscussed this question at considerable length, (/tiePfumhier, vol. ii. pt i. pp. 23—62.) His prin­cipal arguments are, that the Phoenician traditions,which go back to the primitive chaos, represent eventhe gods, as well as the invention of all the arts oflife, as indigenous; that the Scriptures, whosetestimony is preferable, both on account of itsantiquity, and because it arose out of the bosom ofI lie people themselves, make no mention of anysuch immigration, though at that time its memorycould not have been obliterated had it reallyoccurred, and though it would have served thepurpose of the Jews to represent the Canannites asintruders; and that the name of the people, beingderived from the character of the laud, as well as theappellations of different tribes, such as the Gibli atByblos, the Stdooians at Sidon, &o., mark them asindigenous. But it may be observed, that thePhoenician traditions rest on the equivocal authorityof the pretended Sanconiatho, and come to us in soquestionable a shape that they may evidently bemade to serve any purpose. Thus Movers himselfquotes a passage from Sanconiatho (vol. ii. pt. i. p.28), to the effect that the Tyrians invented ship­building, because it directly contradicts the state­ment that they were the descendants of a sea-faringpeople on the shores of the Persian Gulf; althoughBe had previously cited the same passage (vol. i. p.143) in proof of the Euliemeristn of Philo-Sanco­niatho, who, it is there said, attributed the inventionof navigation to the Cabin merely because the Phoe­nician mariners considered themselves as .sailingunder the protection of their deities. Can suchtestimony Ik? compared with that of the "loyal-hearted and truthful Herodotus," as Movers cha­racterises him (vol. i. pt. ii. p. 134). who, be itobserved, also founds his account on the traditions ofthe Phoenicians (ws avrol Xiyovai, vii, 89), andwho could have had no possible interest in misrepre­senting them? Nor could the natural vanity of thePhoenicians have found any gratification in mislead­ing him on this point, since the tradition lessened,rather than enhanced, the splendour of their origin.The testimony of the Scriptures on the subject ismerely negative; nor, were it otherwise, could theyIk? taken as a certain guide in ethnological inquiries.They were not written with that view, and we havealready adverted to a discrepancy in their treatmentof this subject. The question, however, is too longto be fully discussed in this place. Wc have merely adverted to some of the principal heads, and rhstwho wish to pursue the inquiry further ire r^ema1to the passage in Mover's work alrf*jT u.iKatai and to Mr. Kenrick's Ph<jmiria (chap. iiL). IV. Histoet. Our knowledge of Phoenician liistnv V 1fragmentary. Its native recurds, both literarymonumental, have almost utterly perished; anare thus reduced to gather from scatteredthe Old Testament and in the Greek aoiauthors, and sometimes to supply by in;annals of a country which standi the second raof antiquity, which for some thousand.* ofplayed a considerable part in the world, sod UMEurope owes the germs of her civilisation. If we accept the authority of Uerudotsa,Phoenicians must have appeared upon ibt oatfrithe Mediterranean at least twenty--*ven oreight centuries ttfore the birth of Christ. Is*to ascertain the age of Hercules, re?q;«*ctinc elthe Egyptian chronology differed very wysttj ■the Greek, that conscientious historian rfc*Jh«inquire for himself, and arconlmsly sailed to 1where he had heard that there was a famous Mof Hercules. It was, therefore, eipres*!? I*purpose of settling a chronological point thatat the trouble of making ibis voyage,natural to suppose that he did not adopt theat ion which he received from the priest*some examination. Prom these he learnedtemple bad existed B300 years, and thatcoeval with the foundation of Tyre (it.Now, as Herodotus flourished about theof the fifth century before our aera, itthat Tyre must have been foundedyears B. c. The high antiquity of thisundoubtedly startling, and ou thatbeen rejected by several critic* and histit does not apj*ar why it should bealtogether improbable. The chronology ofis carried back more than 2000 years R. c;Jewish Scriptural uniformly intimatehigher, and indeed im memorable,Canaaoites. Acain, if we look at Kgypt,would fall under the 14th dynasty of ila(2750—2631 B.C.), who had*had an hmistence, and to whom many conquests are atbefore this period. This dynasty was bithat of the Hyksos, who were probably Cand are dex-ribed by Manetho as ^kli;e^i in d4of war. and of fortifying camps ai.d clUea. ■pp. 113. 114; Sclud. in PlaUm. Timu vol, 1288, ed. Tauchn.) If Sidon was older than Tyre, and itscity, as it claimed to be, this wuuki adi.difficulty to the question, by carrying hacatnology to a still higher period. But ewnjection cannot be regarded as fatal to tha>signed to Tyre. Cities at so short aeasily have been planted by one anntawrvery brief space of time from their eakpavlcontest between them in ancient time* farnot only shows that the question was abiguous one. but alsu leads to the inJerenandifference in their dates could nut havegreat. The weight of ancient evid<side of the question is pretty nearly * This is the date assigned by Movers;sonic authorities it is placed later.