OCR Output *\6 THE Lr»E OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. Pharisees, which are supposed to excel others in the accurateknowledge of the laws of their country. He was a man of greatwisdom and reason, and capable of restoring public affairs by hisprudence, when they were in an ill posture. He was also an oldfriend and companion of John ; but at that time he had a differ­ence with me. When therefore he had received such an exhor­tation, he persuaded the high-priests, Ananus, and Jesus the sonof Gamala, and some others of the same seditious faction, to cutme down, now I was growing so great, and not to overlook mewhile I was aggrandizing myself to the height of glory ; and hesaid, that it would be for the advantage of the Galileans, if Iwere deprived of my government there. Ananus also, and hisfriends, desired them to make no delay about the matter, lest Ishould get the knowledge of what was doing too soon, and shouldcome and make an assault upon the city with a great army. Thiswas the counsel of Simon; but Ananus the high-priest demonstra­ted to them, that this was not an easy thing to be done, becausemany of the high-priests and of the rulers of the people bore wit­ness that I had acted like an excellent general, and that it wasthe work of ill men to accuse one against whom they had nothingto say. 39. When Simon heard Ananus say this, he desired that themessengers would conceal the thing, and not let it come amongmany ; for that he would take care to have Josephus removedout of Galilee very quickly. So he called for John's brother[Simon], and charged him, that they should send presents to A-nanus and his friends ; for, as he said, they might probably bythat means persuade them to change their minds. And indeedSimon did at length thus compass what he aimed at; for Ananus,and those with him, being corrupted by bribes, agreed to expelme out of Galilee, without making the rest of the citizins ac­quainted with what they were doing. Accordingly they resol­ved to send men of distinction as to their families, and of distinc­tion as to their learning also. Two of these were of the popu­lace, Jonathan * and Ananias, by s^-ct of Pharisees ; while thethird, Jozar, was of the stock of the priests, and a Pharisee also ;and Simon, the last of them, was of the youngest of the high-priests. These had it given them in charge, that, when theywere come to the multitude of the Galileans, they should askthem, what was the reason of their love to me ? and if theysaid, that it was because I was born at Jerusalem, that theyshould reply, that they four were all born at the same place ;and if they should say, it was because I was well versed in theirlaw, they should reply, that neither were they unacquainted with the « This Jonathan is also taken notice of in the Latin notes, as the same that ismentioned by the rabbins in Porta Mosis,