OCR Output B. IV. YEAR IX. BEFORE CHRIST 423. 399 that marched with him to advance full speed up that hillwhich he thought was most practicable and possess them足selves of it, and this with the utmost expedition, each as hewas able without regarding form, and endeavour to drive theBarbarians thence, who were already posting themselvesupon it, before they were joined by larger numbers andcould invest him on all sides. They did so, attacked, andmade themselves masters of the hill, which enabled the mainbody of the Grecians to march up without obstruction. Fornow the Barbarians were thrown into consternation, whentheir detachment had in this manner been beat off from theeminence. And here they discontinued the pursuit, imagin足ing the enemy had already passed the frontier, and securedtheir retreat. Brasidas, when once he was master of the eminences,marched on without molestation; and the very same dayreached Arnissa, the first place within the dominions of Per-diccas. His soldiers indeed, who were exasperated againstthe Macedonians for having thus precipitately abandonedthem, whatever yokes of oxen they met with on their route,or whatever baggage lay dropped upon the ground, (as suchthings it was likely should happen in a retreat by night andconfused by fear), the former they unyoked and cut to pieces,and secreted the latter as lawful plunder. Here, Perdiccasfirst began to regard Brasidas as his enemy, and ever afterforced himself against his inclinations to hate the Peloponne-sians ; not indeed in his judgment preferring the Athenians,but prevailed upon by the exigencies of his own affairs, hecast about for the means of being again reconciled to the lat足ter, and disentangling himself from the former. Brasidas, having retreated through Macedonia to Torone,findeth the Athenians already in possession of Mende. Judg足ing it impossible now to pass over into the Pallene and driveout the enemy, he chose to remain there and securely togarrison Torone. For, during the time of the expedition intoJL.yncus, the Athenians had put to sea against Mende and