OCR Output THRACIA. 11S5 THRACIA. eyeing to liim was emptied, the stones were Be-.jr.iiely rented, and his life pronounced to have"ru happy or the reverse, as the white or the black\tn mure numerous. V. H&toky.—Thrace is one of those countriesi :if«e jieople, not being sufficiently civilised to esta->h a national government or to possess a na-kli! literature, cannot have histories of their•a. We become acquaint**] with the Thraeians: second hand, as it were, through the narrations( f'-rrtcners, who necessarily make them subordinate • tLcir uwn countrymen; and therefore it is only i connection with foreign states that their historya* been recorded. Hence it is fragmentary, and,.vwequeotly, often obscure; nor would its import-aor, indeed, repay the labour that might be em-. -«1 iu elucidating it, even if we possessed theMu.wte materials. Destitute of union, the Thra-i;.*. notwithstanding tlieir numbers, their wide;r ;Hij*i, their powers of endurance, and their con-rtij* of death, exerted no perceptible influence[-n the general course of history; but were re-*ni, in spite of their wild love of independence, i-^ist, as bumble allies or subjects, in the ag­in .i>ftnent of the more civilised or politic races ■ "ij which they came in contact. These were the-ks, the Persians, the Macedonians, and thecTkios, with the successors of the last in theultra Empire. We shall now briefly state theidnig points of their history, as connected with uf the nations just mentioned ; referring the» Vr for details, especially as to the little that is-■■ «n of their purely internal affairs, to the articles tiiii work which relate to the Bkssi, Odrysak,■1 other prominent Thracian tribes.\\ t f«sa over the alleged conquest of Thrace byM«uis (Herod, ii. 103; Diod. i. 53), and that ! u> have been effected by the Teucri and Mysi'rr the Trojan War (Herod, vii. 20; cf. Eurip.War. 406, acq.), and come at once to the strictlyiti-ncaJ periods. I*be first connection of the Greeks with Thraceia through colonics planted upon its various ■ !k, the original object of which seems generallyasve been of a commercial kind. Only an ap-uuution to the date of most of these can be ■de. since the majority were established long be-v the ossnmencentent of authentic history, lty-: *.iin and N.']yiubria, colonies of Megara, belongtae seventh century B. c, the year 675 ii. c. a&»i£ned fur the foundation of the former.<'.'*1 u. c. an unsuccessful attempt is said to— been made by settlers from Chuomenae tothemselves at Abdera (Solin. x. 10); but ii city was not actually founded till 5G0 B. c,J then by emigrants from Tens. (Herod. L 168.)MUioria, on the Euxine, was a colony of thexastian* and Chalcedonians, who abandoned their on the approach of the Phoenician fleet, u. c.1 (Id. ri. 33). When Dicaea, Maronea, and ■ i\ all on the south coast, were established, is. k-oovn; which is the case also with Cardia andOaa ia the Chersonesos. That these settlements * friterallr exposed to the hostility of theirraciaa neighbours, there can be no doubt, though rarely have their infant struggles so fully re­ded as in the instance of Amphipolis. The --1:1113 sent no less than 10,000 men (n. c.-■) to found a colony there; and they succeeded ir;ting off the Edonians who occupied the-v.r;, but having advanced into the interior, theyroL. U. were defeated at Drabescus by the natives, and com­pelled to abandon the country. About thirty yearsafterwards, however, the Athenians returned, andthis time overcame all resistance. Sometimes therelation between the Greeks and the Thraeians wasof a more friendly description. Thus, in the time ofPeisistratus, the Dolonci, who dwelt in the Clicrso-nesus, invited Miltiades (the elder) to rule overthem, as they were unable to cope with their neigh­bours the Apsinthii; and this led to the Atheniansobtaining a firm footing in that most important andvaluable district. (Herod, vi. 34, seq.) By thesevarious means, the Greeks had obtained possessionof nearly the whole coast of Thrace, a considerableperiod before the commencement of the great contestbetween themselves and the Persian empire. Of theinterior they appear to have known scarcely any­thing whatever; and although in some cases thesurrounding barbarians may have been brought intosubjection (Byzantium is said to have reduced theIlitliynian Thraeians to tiie condition of tributaryperioeci), yet this was rarely the case. On the con­trary, it is clear from Thucydides (ii. 97), that theGreeks sometimes paid tribute to the native kings.The Greeks, even when dwelling among hostilestrangers, showed their tendency to separation ratherthan to union; and hence their settlements on theThracian coast never gained the strength whichunion would have conferred upon them. Each cityhad a government and to a great extent a history ofits own; and we must therefore refer the readerfor information respecting those states to the sepa­rate articles in this work devoted to them. The first Persian expedition to Thrace was thatof Darius, who crossed the Bosporus with his armyabout b. c. 513 (or 508. as some authorities hold).As the principal object of Darius was to chastise theScythians for their invasion of Asia in the reign ofCy ax a res, he took the shortest route through Thrace,where he met with no opposition. The Greekswhom he found there were required to follow in histrain to the Danube: among them was the youngerMiltiades, the destined hero of Marathon, who thenruled over the Chersonesus, as bis ancle had for­merly done, and who had married the daughterof a Thracian king. (Herod, vi. 39.) * On re­turning from the north, Darius directed his inarchto the Hellespont, and before crossing from Septusinto Asia, erected a fort at Doriscus, near the mouthof the Ht brus. (Herod, iv. 89—93. 143. 144, vii.59.) Megabazus was left with 8<>,(MHt men tosubdue the whole of Thrace, a task which he beganby besieging Perinthus, which, though previouslyweakened by the altaiks of the Paeonians, madea brave but fruitless resistance. After this, Mega­bazus reduced the country into subjection, thoughperhaps only the districts near the sea, (Herod, v. I, 2, 10.) That his conquests extended as faras the Strymon appears from Ihirius's grant ofa district upon that river to Histiaeus, whofounded there the town of My rein us. (Herod, v. II. ) Megabazus soon returned to Asia; and itseems probable that he took with him the greaterpart of his army; for if the Persians had maintained * Instances occur in later times of the intermar­riage of Greeks with Thraeians: thus the wife ofSitalces was a daughter of Pythee, a citizen uf Ab­dera (Thucyd. ii. 29); and Iphicrates married adaughter of the Thracian king Cotys. (Nep. Jph. i