OCR Output XIV. WAHS OF THE JEWS. • 395 Albums ; and every one of those wicked wretches was encom­passed with his own band of robbers, while he himself, like an.arch-robber, or a tyrant, made a figure among his company, and,abused his authority over those about him, in order to plunderthose that lived quietly. The effect of which was this, thatthose who lost their goods were forced to hold their peace, whenthey had reason to shew great indignation at what they had suf­fered ; but those who had escaped, were forced to flatter himthat deserved to be punished, out of the fear they were in ofsuffering equally with the others. Upon the whole, no bodydurst speak their minds, but tyranny was generally tolerated ;and at this time were those seeds sown which brought the cityto destruction. 2. And though such was the character of Albinus, yet didGessius * Florus, who succeeded him, demonstrate him to have1»een a most excellent person, upon the comparison ; for the for-mer did the greatest part of his rogueries in private, and witha sort of dissimulation ; but Gessius did his unjust actions tothe harm of the nation after a pompous manner : and as thoughhe had been sent as an executioner to punish condemned male­factors, he emitted no sort of rapine, or of vexation ; where thecase was really pitiable, he was most barbarous, and in things-of the greatest turpitude he was most impudent. Nor couldany one outdo him in disguising the truth, nor could any one con­trive more subtle ways of deceit than he did. He indeed thoughtit but a petty offence to get money out of single persons ; so hespoiled whole cities, and ruined entire bodies of men at once,snd did almost publicly proclaim it all the country over, thatthey had liberty giv«n them to turn robbers, upon this condi­tion, that he might go shares with them in the spoils they got.Accordingly, this his greediness of gain was the occasion that,entire toparchies were brought to desolation, and a great manyof the people left their own country, and fled into foreign pro­vinces. 3. And truly, while Cestius Oallus was president of the pro­vince of Syria, nobody durst do so much as send an embassage tohim against Florus ; but when he was come to Jerusalem, up­on the approach of the feast of unleavened bread, the people came * Net long after this beginning of Floras, the wickedest of all the Roman pro­curators of Judea, and the immediate occasion of the Jewish war, at the nth yearof Nero, and the i?th of Agrippa, or A. D. 66. the history in the XX books ofJosephus* Antiquities ends ; although Josephus did not finish the^e books tiil the1.1th of Domitian,or A. D' 93, twenty-seven years afterward; as he did not finishtheir Appendix, containing an account of his own life, till Agrippa was dead,which happened in the 3d year of Trajan, or A. D. 100, as 1 have several time»otserved before. 3 D2