OCR Output 22 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. was the cause that those cities were over­thrown. The sons of Canaan were these; Sidonius,who built a city of the same name, but calledby the Greeks Sidon; Amathus inhabitedAmathine, which is even now called Amatheby the inhabitants, although the Macedoniansnamed it Epiphania, from one of his pos­terity; Arudeus possessed the island Aradeus;Arucus possessed Arce, which is in Libanus.But of the seven others, Ghetteus, Jebuceus,Amorreus, Gergesseus, Eudeus, Sineus, andSamareus, we have nothing in the sacredbooks but their names; for the Hebrewsoverthrew their cities, and their calamitiescame upon them on the occasion following. When, after the deluge, the earth was re­settled in its former condition; Noah setabout its cultivation, and planted it withvines; and when the fruit was ripe, and hehad gathered the grapes in their season, andthe wine was ready for use, he offered sacri­fice,* and feasted; and being inebriated, hefell asleep, and lay naked in an unseemlymanner.* When his youngest son saw this,he came laughing, and shewed him to hisbrethren, but they covered their father'snakedness; and when Noah was made sen­sible of what had been done, he prayed forprosperity to his other sons; but for Ham, hedid not curse him by reason of his nearnessin blood, but cursed his posterity, and whenthe rest of them escaped that curse, Godinflicted it on the children of Canaan. But ofthese matters we shall speak more hereafter. Shem, the third son of Noah, had five sons,twho inhabited the land that began at Eu­phrates, and reached to the Indian ocean.For Elam left behind him the Elamites, theancestors of the Persians. Ashur lived at the the Egyptians, put an end to, II. 10. and about whichmodern writers seem very much unconcerned ; viz. that itwas a war of that consequence, as to occasion the removalor destruction of six or seven nations of the posterity ofMesraim, with their cities, which Josephus would not havesaid, if he had not had ancient records to justify his asser­tions, though those records be now lost. * Gen. ix. 21. t Gen. x. 21. % That the Jews were called Hebrews from their pro­genitor Heber, our author Josephus here rightly affirms;and not from Abram the Hebrew^or passenger over Eu­phrates, as many of the modems suppose. Shem is alsocalled the Father of all the Children of Heber, or of all the city Ninive, and named his subjects Assyrians,who became the most fortunate nation beyondothers. Arphaxad named the Arphaxadites,who are now called Chaldeans. Aram hadthe Aramites, whom the Greeks call Syrians;as Lud founded the Ludites, who are nowcalled Lydians. Of the four sons of Aram,Uz founded Trachonitis and Damascus; thiscountry lies between Palestine and Celesyria.Ul founded Armenia; and Gather the Bac-trians; and Mesa the Mesaneans: it is nowcalled Charax Spasina. Sala was the son ofArphaxad: and his son was Heber, fromwhom they originally called the Jews He­brews.:*; Heber begat Joctan and Phaleg.He was called Phaleg because he was born||at the dispersion of the nations to their se­veral countries, for Phaleg among the He­brews signifies division. Now Joctan, oneof the sons of Heber had these sons, Elmo-dad, Saleph, Asermoth, Jera, Adoram, Aizel,Decla, Ebal, Abimeal, Sabeus, Ophir, Euilar,and Jobab: these inhabited from Cophen, anIndian river, and in part of Asia adjoining toit; and this may suffice concerning the sonsof Shem. I will now treat of the Hebrews. The sonof Phaleg, whose father was Heber, was Ra-gau, whose son was Serug, to whom was bornNahor; his son was Terah, who was thefather of Abraham, who accordingly was thetenth§ from Noah, who was born in the twohundred and ninety-second year after thedeluge: for Terah begat Abram in his seven­tieth year. Nahor begat Haran when he wasone hundred and twenty years old: Nahorwas born to Serug at his hundred and thirty-second year; Ragau had Serug at one hun­dred and thirty; at the same age also Phaleghad Ragau; Heber begat Phaleg in his hun- Hebrews in a history long before Abram passed overEuphrates. Gen. x. 21. II If Phaleg were so called at his birth, as Josephus hererightly asserts, it is plain the short Hebrew, or Masoretechronology was not the chronology of Josephus, by whichthe confusion of languages, and the dispersion of mankindfell no later than the 100th year after the deluge, which isimpossible to be supposed, and is a great deal too soon forsuch confusion of languages and dispersion of mankind,which, by the best chronology, did not happen till 300years later, or till 400 years after the flood. § Therefore the second Cainan is spurious. See Ber .nard's note.