OCR Output SI* TITUS LI VMS' Boon IB. Rome was in the most dreadful consternation; notthat they wanted the means of defence, but because thealarm was sa sudden and unexpected. The governmentof the city bad, at that time, been committed to Q. Fabius.He armed all the youth; and having posted guards inproper places, put the city in a state of safety and quiet.Wherefore, as the enemy, having seized upon all th«ycould in the adjacent countries, were fetching a compassto return home, not daring to advance nearer the city,and growing more careless in their march, the fa-rthe^they got from it, fell in with the consul Lucretius, pre­viously informed of their route by his scouts, and everyway prepared for action. Wherefore, the courage of thesoldiers being already wound up to the highest pitch,they charged the confederates, who were struck with asudden panic, and though somewhat inferior in point ofnumbers, gave them a total overthrow. They fled- intothe valleys, whence the outlets were difficult, and so weresurrounded on all sides. There the whole nation of theVolsci was almost all cut to pieces. Some annals ascertain the number of the slain in theaction and the flight, to be' 14,470, the number of pri­soners 1,250, and add, that twenty-seven standards werebrought out of the field. It is very possible this numberof killed may be somewhat exaggerated; but it is verycertain, however, that the slaughter was prodigious.—The victorious consul returned with a great booty, backto his camp. Then both consuls encamped together; and the jEquiand Volsci also joined the wreck of their armies. A bat­tle was the consequence, the 'bird this year, [A. R. 291.]Fortune still contmuing to side with the Roman*; forthe enemy were routed, and their camp taken. CHAP. IX. A law proposed to retrench the power of the Consuls, andopposed by 2. Fabius. .l HUS, once more, did the Roman state resume its for­mer splendour: But success abroad, was immediatelyproductive of commotions at home. C. Terentillus Arsa,was this year tribune of the people. He thinking the