OCR Output 10 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. conducted him to the senate-house; all things an-, nouriced the sovereign. In his despatches to the army,he was already the successor of Augustus: he spokethe style and language of a recognised emperor,without reserve, and in the tone of power, equivocalonly when he addressed the senate. The fact was, Tiberius dreaded Germanicus. Acommander in chief, who had so many legions underhis direction, who had formed connexions with theallies of Rome, and was besides the idol of the people,might choose to seize the government, rather thanlinger in expectation. For this reason the fatherswere to be managed. There was at the bottom ano足ther motive ; if, in appearance, he owed his elevation,not to the intrigues of an ambitious mother, or theadoption of a superannuated emperor, but to thevoice of the, people, it would redound more to hiaglory. The opportunity was also fair, to pry into thetemper and dispositions of the leading senators. Theevent showed that his indecision was policy in dis足guise. He noted the words of men ; he watched theirlooks ; warped every circumstance into a crime ; and,hoarding all in his memory, gathered rancour for afuture day. VIII. At the first meeting of the senate, the funeralof Augustus was the only subject of debate. Theemperor's will was brought forward by the vestalvirgins. Tiberius and Livia were declared his heirs.The latter was adopted into the Julian family, withthe additional title of Augusta. His grand-childrenand their issue were next in succession ; in the thirddegree he named the nobles of E^me: not indeed frommotives of personal regard, for the greater part hadbeen for a long time obnoxious; but a bequest so ge足nerous and magnificent might gain the applause offuture ages. In the rest of his legacies the will wasin the style of a Roman cUizen: if we except theclauses, whereby he gave to the Roman people fourhundred thousand great sesterces, to the inferior com足monalty five-and-thirty thousand, to each prsetoriansoldier one thousand small sesterces, and to everycommon man belonging to the legions three hundred,