OCR Output 784 ROMA. ROMA. Met ell us Dalmaticus (Cic. Scaur. 4f>, et ibi Ascon),and afterwards rebuilt by Tiberius, and dedicated inhis and Drosuss name, a. D. 6. (Suet. 776.20;Dion Cass. lv. 27.) Caligula connected it with hispalace by breaking through the back wall, and tooka foolish pleasure in exhibiting himself to be adoredbetween the statues of the twin deities. (Suet.Cal 22; Dion Cass. lix. 28.) It was restored toits former state by Claudius (Id. Ix. 6). We learnfrom Dionvsins that the Roman knights, to thenumber sometimes of 5000, in commemoration ofthe legend respecting the foundation of the temple,made an annual procession to it from the temple ofMars, outside of the Porta Capena. On this occa­sion, dressed in their state attire and crowned witholive, they traversed the city and proceeded over the 13 I COLUMNS OF THE TEMPLE OF CASTOR ANDPOLLUX. forum to the temple (vi. 13). Its DRfUmaWwas somewhat contaminated by the offices of artaipersons who trafficked in tUves of bad cauida\who might be'found there in shoals. (** Xoaraawiferam si mihi non reddiderit nomen ali^as a ha\qui ad Cantoris negotiantnr. nequaoc mmup-vendentesque, quorum Unerase pessimonuntnrba referlae sunt," Senec. de HPlaut. Cure. iv. 1. 20.) The three elepnt oainear the forum, under the Palatine, art nwst|nlremains of this temple. We hare leeniatatceding account that it stood close to thewell as to the temple of Vesta, a pojiMiprecisely agrees with that of the thrtt aNone of the other various appropriation! of la*will bear examination. Poggio (de r«r.p. 22) absurdly considered these colamss t»mains of Caligula's bridge. By thetopographers they were regarded astemple of Jupiter Stator; but it baa beamthis must have stood a good deal higher**Velia. Nardini thought they were Tvmafflicomitinm, and was followed by Nibby (fartp. 60) and Burgess (Antiq. of Aon*, i. *•We have shown that the count mm was Milside of the forum. Canina takes then ■belonged to the Curia Julia (f'oro Rm. ]p. 132), which, however, as will appear in asplace, could not have stood here. BaeseForum de Rome, p. 58) identifiestemple of Minerva, which, as be(p. 59), is a u denominationvelle" and indeed, though new. not trae.from his confounding the Chakidicsaain the Munument'tm Ancyranum with 1Minervae mentioned by the Sotkim iRegion. But we hare already ohaarrticuria and Chalcidium, which adjoined it,quite misplaced here. The Curiomam,the same Region, mentions besides ta*Minervae a Templum Castorum etthis does not appear in the v .via. Bemore correct in his previous adoption of tiof Fea, that the columns belonged to u*Castor. (Bulkuino dell InsL 1835; c£in Class. Mm, iv. p. 19.) The capture of the city by the390, which, as we hare before said,much injury that the Romansthoughts of migrating to Veil, most of «occasioned considerable damage in the ithe forum. The Curia Hostilia, bonahave escaped, since Liry represent* thedebating in it respecting this Terr ma£>Such shops and private booses as had beanwere probably restored in the fashion im thad previously existed. It was now tsssltemple to Alt's LoQrEXs,or Loctttcs, ■have before alluded, was erected on thenot far from the temple of Vests, (/*. fjthis period the forum must hawany important alterations down to thePorcius Cato, when basilica* £nterected. During this interval all teatto adorn it with statues a: ino building was erected upon it; farex voto temple to Concord, whichbeen made of bronze, erected «a thethe aedile C. Kluvius, b, c 303 (Id.hardly come under that denotninatxbably also during this period thai the