OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 39 changes of each instant, weighed every possible advantage, transported his personto the scenes of danger, and communicated his spirit in calm and decisive orders.The contest was fiercely maintained from the morning to the evening; the Gothswere repulsed on all sides, and each Roman might boast that he had vanquishedthirty barbarians, if the. strange disproportion of numbers were not counterba­lanced by the merit of one man. Thirty thousand Goths, according to the con­fession of their own chiefs, perished in this bloody action; and the multitude of thewounded was equal to that of the slain. When they advanced to the assault, theirclose disorder suffered not a javelin to fall without effect; and as they retired thepopulace of the city joined the pursuit, and slaughtered, with impunity, the backsof their flying enemies. Belisarius instantly sallied from the gates; and while thesoldiers chanted his name and victory, the hostile engines of war were reduced toashes. Such was the loss and consternation of the Goths, that, from this day, thesiege of Rome degenerated into a tedious and indolent blockade; and they were in­cessantly harassed by the Roman general, who, in frequent skirmishes, destroyedabove five thousand of their bravest troops. Their cavalry was unpractised in the useof the bow; their archers served on foot; and this divided force was incapable of con­tending with their adversaries, whose lances and arrows, at a distance, or at hand,were alike formidable. The consummate skill of Belisarius embraced the favour­able opportunities: and as he chose the ground and the moment, as he pressed thecharge, or sounded the retreat,(l) the squadrons which he detached were seldomunsuccessful. These partial advantages diffused an impatient ardour among thesoldiers and people, who began to feel the hardships of a siege, and to disregardthe dangers of a general engagement. Each plebeian conceived himself to be ahero, and the infantry, who, since the decay of discipline, were rejected from thelineof battle, aspired to the ancient honours of the Roman legion. Belisariuspraised the spirit of his troops, condemned their presumption, yielded to their cla­mours, and prepared the remedies of a defeat, the possibility of which he alonehad courage to suspect. In the quarter of the Vatican, the Romans prevailed; andif the irreparable moments had not been wasted in the pillage of the camp, theymight have occupied the Milvian bridge, and charged in the rear of the Gothichost. On the other side of the Tiber, Belisarius advanced from the Pincian, andSalarian gates. But his army, four thousand soldiers perhaps, was lost in a spa­cious plain; they were encompassed and oppressed by fresh jnultitudes, who con­tinually relieved the broken ranks of the barbarians. The valiant leaders of theinfantry were unskilled to conquer: they died: the retreat (a hasty retreat) wascovered by the prudence of the general, and the victors started back with affrightfrom the formidable aspect of an armed rampart. The reputation of Belisariuswas unsullied by a defeat; and the vain confidence of the Goths was not less ser­viceable to his designs than the repentance and modesty of the Roman troops. From the moment that Belisarius had determined to sustain a siege, his assidu­ous care provided Rome against the danger of famine, more dreadful than the Go­thic arms." An extraordinary supply of corn was imported from Sicily; the har­vests of Campania and Tuscany were forcibly swept for the use of the city: andthe rights of private property were infringed by the strong plea of the public safe­ty. It might easily be foreseen that the enemy would intercept the aqueducts;and the cessation of the water-mills was the first inconvenience, which was spee­dily removed by mooring large vessels, and fixing mill-stones in the current of theriver. The stream was soon embarrassed by the trunks of trees, and pollutedwith dead bodies; yet so effectual were the precautions of the Roman general, thatthe waters of the Tiber still continued to give motion to the mills and drink to theinhabitants; the more distant quarters were supplied from domestic wells; and abesieged city might support, without impatience, the privation of her public baths.A large portion of Rome, from the Pranestine gate to the church of St. Paul, wasnever invested by the Goths; their excursions were restrained by the activity ofthe Moorish troops; the navigation of the Tiber, and the Latin, Appian, and Os-tian ways, were left free and unmolested for the introduction of corn and cattle,or the retreat of the inhabitants, who sought a refuge in Campania or Sicily. Anx­ious to relieve himself from a useless and devouring multitude, Belisarius issuedhis peremptory orders for the instant departure of the women, the children, and (1) For the Roman trumpet and its various notes, consult Lipsius, de Militia Romano, (Opp. torn. iii. lib. iv.Dialog, x. p. 125—120.) A mode of distinguishing the charge by the horse trnmpet of solid brass, and the re­treat by the foot trumpet of leather anrt light wood, was recommended bv Procopius, and adopted by Belisa­rius (Goth. lib. ii. c. 23.)