OCR Output 1* LIGURIA. LIGURIA. tlic Larngna, that falls into the sea at Chiarari;and the Boactes of the same author, which ran Ihjno othe^ than the Vara, the most considerable tri­butary of the Magra. Much more considerable thanthese, both in the volume of water and length oftheir course, are the streams which flow from theN. slopes of the Ai-ennir.es towards the Padtis. Butof these, the only ones whose names are found in anyancient author, are the Tanarus, or TV/w.ro, one ofthe most important of the southern tributaries of thePadua; the Sti'KA, whirl) joins the Tanarus nearPolientia; and the Tkkhia, which ri>es in theAjiennines, not far from Genoa, and fulls into thePo near Placentia, forming during a part at least ofits course the boundary between Liguria and GalliaCisjmdana. The rivers marked in this part of Italy in theTabula are so confused, and the names so corrupt,that it is useless to attempt to identity them. The native Lignrians lived fur the most part inmere villages and mountain fastnesses (" castellavichjue," Liv. xh 17 ; Strab. v. p. 218), and hadprobably few towns. Even under the Romangovernment there seem to have been few placeswhich deserved the name of towns along the sea-coast, or among the inner ranges of the Apen­nines; but on the northern slopes of the samemountains, where they approached or opened outinta the plains, these grew up rapidly and rose togreat prosperity,— so that Pliny says of this partof Liguria in his time, "omnia nobilibus oppidisnitcnt" (PIin. iii. 5. s. 7). Those which he proceedsto enumerate are: — Liiiahna (between Arquataand Serravallt'), Dkrtona (Tortona), Iria (Vo-ghcra), Raiidkrate (of uncertain site), Inim.stkia(at Monlen, on the right bank of the V'o), Pol-lkxtia (Polmzn), Cakkka Potkntia (uncertain),Foiti'M Kri.vii. called Valestinum (I'nlmza),Augusta Vaoieniu/Rum (Bene), Alba Pompkia(Alba), Asta (Asti), Aquae Statiellak (Acqui).To these must be added Augusta Taurinorum,which was certainly a Ligurian town, though, fromits position on tlie left bank of the Padua, it is enu­merated by Pliny with the cities of the xith region,or Gallia Transpadana. In the same district wereForum Vibii, in the territory of the Vagienni, andOcei.um, now Vxtau, in the valley of Ftnestretln*.Segusio (Stua) was probably a Gaulish rather thana Ligurian town. In addition to these may bementioned ClastidK'M (Casteggio), which is ex­pressly called by Livy a Ligurian town, thoughsituated on the Gaulish frontier, and Ckba, nowVera, in the upper valley of the Tanaro. Litubium,mentioned by Livy together with Clastidium(xxxii. 29), and Carystnm, noticed by the sameauthor as a town of the StatielU (xlii. 7), are other­wise wholly unknown. Along the coast of Liguria, beginning from theVarus, the towns enumerated by Pliny or Ptolemyare:—Nicaea (A'tce), Ckmrkelium (Cimiez, ashort distance inland), Portta HekcumsMokoeci(Mtmaco), Albiun Intrmeuum (Ymtimiglia),Ai.bilm Ikoaunum (Albenga), Vaoa Sabbata( Vado, near Savona), Genua, Portuh Delphini(Porto /'mw), Tigulha (probably Tregvto, near,AlrWW), Segesta (probably Sestri), Portuh Veneris(Porto rVnerc), and Portus Kricis (/^rtn), bothuf them on the Gulf of Spezia, which was called asa whole the Portuh Linae [Lu.xa], The othernames enmneraled in the Itineraries are for the•'lost part wry objure and uncertain, niut many <f them, from their very form, are obviously not thenames of towns or even villages, but of mere statins*or " inutationcs." The few which can be determinedwith any certainty have their modem names uicrxnlin the Itineraries here given. 1. The coast road from the Varus to the Macnis thus given in the Tabula Peutingeriana: — Varum fl. ( lar), Cemenelium (Cimiez). In Alpe Maritima (Ttirbia). Albinteiiielitim ( Vintimiglia). Costa lialuenae. Lncus Bonnani. Albingaiirmm (.4Ittenga). Vada Snhata (I Wo). Vicus Virginia. Alba Docilia (AIbUsola). Ad Navalia. Ila.sta. Ad Kiglinas. Genua (Genoa), Kicina. Ad Solaria (Sofaro near Chiarari) Ad Monilia (Mtmeglia). In Alpe Pemiino. Boron. Luna (l.uni). 2. Tlie haine line of mute is thus given (in thecontrary direction) in the Itinerary of Antoninus (p. 29:i;:— Luna. Boareas (probably Boactes fl.: the Vara). Bodetia. Te;ulata (perbaps identical with the Tigullia ofPlinv: I'rrijtixtt). Delphinis (Portus Dclphini, l'lin.: Purto /'mo). Genua (Genoa). Libarium (Libarnum).* l>rtnna (Tortoua). Aquae (.lrylw). Crixia. Canalienm. Vada Cabala ( 1 Wo). Pullnjucem. Alblnjjaiiimtri (Albenya). Lucua Bomtani. Costa Italat-nae. Alliintimi'lmin ( Vmtimijlia). Liiuinnetn (.Venrowe). Alpe summa (7W>i7i). Omeiu'lium (O'lttirr). Varum flumen ( Var). (The distances given along thia line of mate anin both Itineraries ao corrupt and coufuaed that theyare omitted above. For a fuller discussion ot I beroutes in question see Wabkenaer, UeogrnpMu oV*r?««/nt, vol. iii. pp. 18 — al; ami N'rm, Mono dtWantirn /.iV/ur/o, vob i. pp. 97 KM).) * It ia evkhait that the Antonine Itinerary her*qoita the coast road, and makea a auddro toreinland to Dertona, and thence bark again by Aqua*Statiellae to the coast at \'aila Sabuta, trom wheiaeit resumes the line of roast road. A c<«7ip*rw«with tbe Tabula (aa given in fac-siniile by Manner!),in which both line* of road are placed aide by aide,•rill at once el plain how thia error originated; andpointa out a aource of corruption and cuofuaMai iaour existing copies of the Itinerary, which baadoubtless ojierated in many other caeca when Itcannot now be ao distinctly traced.