OCR Output 14. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B,V, suspicion that some cities of Peloponnesus would revoltfrom them to the Argives, which proved afterwardstrue. Both parties, then, being respectively influenced bysuch considerations, an accommodation was judged to beexpedient. The anxiety of the Lacedæmonians aboutit was not the least, as they were eagerly bent on reco­vering their prisoners that had been taken at Sphacteria;for they were all citizens of Sparta, of the first rank,and allied to the most honourable families. They hadbegun to solicit their liberty so soon as ever they weretaken; but the Athenians, flushed with conquest, atthat time disdained to treat. Yet, after the blow recei­ved at Delium, the Lacedæmonians, knowing then theywere become more tractable, laid hold of the favourablejuncture, and obtained a cessation of arms for a year,in which space they were, by article, to hold mutualconferences, in order to settle an accommodation for alonger time. And since the Athenians had now againmore lately been totally defeated at Amphipolis, and aswell Cleon as Brafidas was dead, both of whom had moststrenuously opposed an accommodation; the latter, be­cause he was successful and reaped glories in war; theformer, because, in a season of tranquillity, his villa-nies must needs be detected, and his bold calumniationslose all credit; the persons, who at present were chief inthe management of either state, were more strongly dis­posed than ever to adjust disputes. These were, Pleisti-onax, the son of Pausanias, king of the Lacedæmonians,and Nicias, the son of Niceratus, by far the most suc­cessful general of that age. Nicias desired it, as hither­to he had never been deseated, and was bent on securinghis own prosperity on a lasting foundation, on obtaininga relaxation of toils for himself, and of their present bur­dens for his fellow-citizens, and on leaving his name il-Justrious to posterity, as one who had never involvedhis country in cala'mity. These views, he judged,could only be accomplished by vacuity from danger, by exposing