OCR Output ; . [A. U.C.772. Celendris. With a body of deserters, incorporatedwith the recruits lately intercepted, and the auxiliariessent by the kings of Cilicia, he threw himself into theplace, resolved to hold out to the last. To his forceshe added his own slaves, and those of Plancina, form­ing altogether a number equal to a legion. To excitetheir courage, he complained aloud that he, the go­vernor appointed by Tiberius, was driven out of theprovince, not by the legions (for they invited him toreturn) but by Sentius, who, with the specious colourof public motives, varnished over his own private ani­mosity. He told his troops, that they had only toshow themselves in force, and the aflFair would be de­cided. The soldiers of the adverse party, at the sightof Piso, whom they hailed the father of the legions,would lay down their arms and submit to the manwho not only had justice on his side, but if necessary,courage and resolution to maintain his rights. Hav­ing thus exhorted his people, he drew them out be­fore the walls of the castle, on the summit of a craggyhill. The place was every where else surrounded bythe sea. The veterans, under Sentius, advanced inregular order. A body of reserve followed to supportthem. On one side were seen skill and bravery: onthe other, nothing but the advantage of the ground;no courage to incite; no hope to animate; and nowarlike weapons, but only such rustic tools as themen were able to snatch up in the first tumult of adangerous enterprise. An engagement followed; butthe victory was no longer in suspense, than while theRomans were employed in forcing their way up theascent of the hill. The steep being surmounted, theCicilians fled for shelter to their fortifications. LXXXI. The fleet under the command of Sentiuslay at anchor under the walls of Celendris. Pisomade a sally, with intent to seize the ships. Beingrepulsed, he showed himself before the works of thecastle; he complained of cruel injustice, and tried bythe force of pathetic language to soften the legions inhis favour; he called upon individuals by name, andby ample promises hoped to raise a spirit of sedition.His success was such, that an eagle-bearer of the