OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. and secretly firing the granaries" of a besieged city.pWhile he pressed the blockade of Ravenna, he wassurprised by the arrival of two ambassadors from Con­stantinople, with a treaty of peace, which Justinian hadimprudently signed, without deigning to consult theauthor of his victory. By this disgraceful and precariousagreement, Italy and the Gothic treasure were divided,and the provinces beyond the Po were left with the regaltitle to the successor of Theodoric. The ambassadorswere eager to accomplish their salutary commission ; thecaptive Vitiges accepted, with transport, the unexpectedoffer of a crown; honour was less prevalent among theGoths, than the want and appetite of food; and the Ro­man chiefs, who murmured at the continuance of thewar, professed implicit submission to the commands ofthe emperor. If Belisarius had possessed only the cou­rage of a soldier, the laurel would have been snatchedfrom his hand by timid and envious counsels; but, inthis decisive moment, he resolved, with the magnanimityof a statesman, to sustain alone the danger and merit ofgenerous disobedience. Each of his officers gave a writ­ten opinion, that the siege of Ravenna was impracticableand hopeless: the general then rejected the treaty ofpartition, and declared his own resolution of leading Vi­tiges in chains to the feet of Justinian. The Goths re­tired with doubt and dismay: this peremptory refusal de­prived them of the only signature which they could trust,and filled their minds with a just apprehension, that asagacious enemy had discovered the full extent of their derns aygssrof. Yet both words are used as synonymous in Galen, Dioscorides, andLocian. (Hen. Steph. Thesaur. Ling. Graec. torn. 3. p. 748.) ° The Goths suspected Mathasuintha as an accomplice in the mischief, which per­haps was occasioned by accidental lightning. P In strict philosophy, a limitation of the rights of war seems to imply nonsenseand contradiction. Grotius himself is lost in an idle distinction between the jas' na­turae and the jus gentium, between poison and infection. He balances in one scale thepassages of Homer, (Otlyss. A. 259, &c.) and Florus; (lib. 2. c. 20. no. 7. alt.) andin the other, the examples of Solon (Pausanias, lib. 10. c. 37.) and Belisarius. See hisgreat work De Jure Belli et Pacis, lib. 3. c. 4. s. 15—17. and in Barbeyrac's version,torn. 2. p. 257, &c. Yet I can understand the benefit and validity of an agreement,tacit or express, mutually to abstain from certain modes of hostility. See the Aiu-phictyouio oath in Kschincs, de Falsa Legatione.