OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 537 braced the faith of Jesus of Nazareth **, and the zealots who hadfollowed the standard of Judas the Gaulonite 4'. The former werethe friends, the latter were the enemies, of humankind; and theonly resemblance between them, consisted in the same inflexible con­stancy, which, in the defence of their cause, rendered them insen­sible of death and tortures. The followers of Judas, who impelledtheir countrymen into rebellion, were soon buried under the ruinsof Jerusalem; whilst those of Jesus, under the more celebrated nameof Christians, diffused themselves over the Roman empire. Hownatural was it for Tacitus, in the time of Hadrian, to appropriateto the Christians, the guilt and the sufferings, which he might, withfar greater truth and justice, have attributed to a sect whose odiousmemory was almost extinguished! 4. Whatever opinion may beentertained of this conjecture, (for it is no more than a conjecture) itis evident that the effects, as well as the cause of Nero's persecution,were confined to the walls of Rome 41; that the religious tenets ofthe Galilæans, or Christians, were never made a subject of punishment,or even of inquiry; and that, as the idea of their sufferings was,for a long time, connected with those of cruelty and injustice, themoderation of succeeding princes inclined them to spare a sect, op­pressed by a tyrant, whose rage had been usually directed againstvirtue and innocence. It is somewhat remarkable, that the flames of war consumed al- Oppression of the Jews and most at the fame time the temple of Jerusalem and the Capitol of Christians byRome 4J; and it appears no less singular, that the tribute which de- Dom,tian*votion had destined to the former, should have been converted bythe power of' an insulting victor to restore and adorn the splendorof the latter44. The emperors levied a general capitation tax onthe Jewish people; and although the sum assessed on the head ofeach individual was inconsiderable, the use for which it was designed,and the severity with which it was exacted, were considered as anintolerable grievance 4J. Since the officers of the revenue extended. Vol. I. 2 z 2 their