OCR Output Chap. IX. ANTIQJHTIES OF THE JEWS. 185 to succeed him, he wa's desirous to appear to do somewhat that'might be grateful to the pefople of Jerusalem ; so he brought outall those prisoners who seemed to him to be the most plainlyworthy of death, and brdef&d fherii to be put to death according­ly. But as to those who had been put into prison on some tri­fling occasions, he took nioney of them, and dismissed them ; bvwhich means the'prisons were emptied, but the country was filledwith 'robbers.' , 6. Now,'as many ef the Levites*, which' is a tribe of ours, aswere singers of hymns,' persuaded the king to assemble a sanhe-'drim, and to give them leave to wear linen garments, as well asthe priests ; for they said, that this would be a work worthy thetimes of his government, that he might have a memorial of such ' a novelty, as being his doing. Nor did they fail of obtainingtheir desire ; for the king, with the suffrages of those that canit:into the sanhedrim, granted: the singers of hymns this privilege,that they might lay aside their former garments, and wear such alinen one as they desired ; and as a pan-of -this tribe ministeredin the temple, he also permitted them to learn those hymns asthey had besought him for. ' Now all this was contrary to thelaws of our country, whichy whenever they have been transgress­ed, we have never been able to avoid the punishment of suchtransgressions. 7. And now it was that the temple *j- was finished. So, whenthe people saw that the workmen were unemployed, who wereabove eighteen thousand, and that they, receiving no wages,were in want, because they had earned their bread by their la­bours about the temple, and while they were unwilling to keepthem by the treasures that were there deposited, out of fear off their being carried away by] the Romans: and while they hada regard to the making provision for the workmen, they had amind to expend those treasures upon them; for if any one ofthem did but labour for a single hour, tye received his pay im­mediately ; so they persuaded him to rebuild the eastern clois­ters. These cloisters belonged to the outer coart, and were si­tuated in a deep valley, and had walls that reached four hundredcubits [in length], and were built of square and very whitestones, the length of each of which stones was twenty cubits, andtheir height six cubits. This was the work of king Solomon *, VOL. III. A a who * This insolent petition of some of the Levites, to wear the sacerdotal gar.ments, when they sung hymns to God in the temple, was very probably owingto the great depression and contempt the haughty high-priests had nnwbroughttheir brethren the priests i'nto; of which see chap. viii. sect. S. and chap. ix.sect. 2. + Of this finishing, not of the N«t«», or holy house, but of the /:j«, or court*it, called in general the ferrule, see the note on E. XVII. ch. x. sect. 2.