OCR Output 862 SABA. SARA. accounts of them from the historical books of theAegyptian kings, which ha consulted in the Alex*andreian Library. (Diod. iii. 38, 4ri.) There canhe little question that Herodotus, although lie doesnot name the Sabaeans, describes them in variousjn-ssaires, wlien speaking of the Arabians, the south­ernmost people of the earth. (Herod, ii. 86, iii. 107—113.) The commerce of Yemen with Phoeniciaand Aegypt under the Pharaohs would render tliename of the Sabaeans familiar in nil the havens ofthe lied Sea and the eastern Mediterranean. TheAegyptiana imported spices largely, since they em­ployed them in embalming the dead; and the Phoe­nicians required them for the Syrian markets, sinceperfumes have in all ages been both favouriteluxuries and among the most popular medicines ofthe East. At the time when Ptolemy wrote (in thesecond century A.D.) their trade with Syria andAegypt, as the carriers of the silks and spices somuch ill request at Rome, brought the Sabaeanswithin ken of the scientific geographer and of thelearned generally. 3. Accordingly, we nuet in the Roman poetswith numerous, although vague, allusions to thewealth and luxury of the Sabaeans. '* Molles," "di-vites," "beati,' are the epithets constantly appliedto them. (See Catull. xi. 5; Propert. ii. 10. 16.i6. 2\). 17, iii. 13. 8; Virgil, Gwrg. i. 57, ii. 150.Aeneid. i. 416; Horace, Coras, i. 29. S, ii. 12. 24;Id. EpieL i. 6. 6. ih. 7. 36; Statins, SUv. iv. 8. 1 jScuec. If trail*.*, Ott. v, 376.) The expedition ofAelius ('alius, indeed (». r. 24), may have tendedti» bring Southern Arabia more immediately underthe notice of the Romans. But their knowledgewis at best very limited, and rested less on factsthan on rumours of Sabaean opulence and luxury.Pliny and the geographers are rather better in­formed, but even they had very erroneous conceptionsof the physical or commercial character > f this nation.Not until the passage to India by the Cape hadbeen discovered was Sabaea or Yemen really exploredby Europeans. Assuming, then, that the Sabeans were a widely,spread race, extending from the Persian Gulf to thelied Sen, and running up to I lie borders of thedesert in the Arabian peninsula, we proceed to exa­mine the grounds of their reputation for excessiveopulence and luxury. A portion of their wealthwas undoubtedly native; they supplied Aegypt andSyria from the remotest periods with frankincenseand aromatics; and since the soil of Yemen is highlyproductive, they took in exchange, not the com orwine of their neighbours, but the precious metals.But aromatics were by no means the capital sourceof their wealth. The Sabaeans possessed f<>r manycenturies the keys of Indian commerce, and werethe intermediate factor?, between Aegypt and Syria,as these countries were in turn the Indian agentsfor Kurope, During the Pharaontc eras of Aegypt,no attempt was made to disturb the monopoly of theSabaeans in this tralh'c. Ptolemy Pliiladelphus (n.c.274) was the first Aegyptian sovereign who dis­cerned the value of the lied Sea and its harbours tohi* kingdom. He established his Indian emporiumat Myos-HormuJ or Arsinoe, and under his succes­sors Berenice, which was connected with CoptOJ onthe Nile by a canal, shared the profits of this re­munerative trade. But even then the Sabaeans losta small portion only of their former exclusive ad-rant ages. They were no longer the carriers ofIndian exports to Aegypt, but they were still the importers of them from India itself. The Af^talfleets proceeded no further than the hues d SaWbatha or Mariaba; while the Sabaeans, kssj feateven to t he voyage of Ncarchus (a, c. 330V luris**across the ocean with the monsoon to Oyt* salthe Malabar coast. Their vessels «ens a* Samsbuild than the ordinary mercuam-ihits a uaGreeks, and their mariners were n*«* skitfti eatintrepid than the Greeks, who. it is recorded, ttrmmback with terror from the Indian Ocean. Ti» taskof the Sabaean navigators lay alone the eo»rt a?(a>drnsia, since Nearcbus found along its tArabic names of places, and at Pot** eacsf^ipilot acquainted with those seas. In pnawtssarluxury increased in the Syro-Macedooisn <their extravagance in the article of perfmis recorded by Athenaeus, xiL), and salin Home, the Indian trade became more ithe Sabaeans. It was computed in the third cof the Empire, that, for every pvund of s"to Italy, a pound of silver cArabia: and the computation might fairly ktended to the aromatics employed so lavishly 1Romans at their banquet* and funerals. (0Petroniua, c. 64, with Plutarch, SsZJa,Then were two avenues of this traffic, (by Petra and the Elauitic gulf, the olied Sea to Arsinoe, the Ptolemaic canal, iandreia. We may therefore fairly ascribe ts*«ordinary wealth of the Sabaeans to task* Imonopoly of the Indian trade. Their country,!ever, was itself highly productive?, andd-nUiesvithe general character of the Arabian peasasawsouthern extremity was densely popoiatfd. 11Sabaeans are docrihed by the Hebrew, tw Geujand the Arabian writers as a nnlofty stature, implying abundance of tbetlife; and the recurrence of the name of Sabatout the entire region between th* Red Sea tad (mania shows that they were populous and ]enough to send out colonies. The (teoeral kof the northern and central districts at 1the population down to the south. Tthat border on the Italian Ocean arcby the plenty of wood and water; tbtperate, the animals are numerous (theYemen are strong and serviceable), and idelicious. With such abundance at boast 1baeans were enabled to devote themselves n»1with undivided energy and success. Nothing more strikingly di* plays tbe iof the ancient geographers as regards Sibtheir descriptions of the opiTheir narratives are equally pompous and igant. According to Agatbarchides and I*athe odour of the spice-woe*Is was so potest Iinhabitants were liable to apoplexies, nwk Iacted the noxious perfumes by the ill igoats -hair and asph.iltite. The deecrctaas *houses, their furniture, and even th* trd-*nestsMsils were of g< Id and silver: they draaa trtautblazing with gems; they used annanaai ifirewood; and no king could compete ia tuias^flthe merchant-princes of the Sabaeans. Yajsasssalto remember the real or imputed suoiptufew of the I'utch and English East Iadia(merchants in the 18th century, whilethe East was in a few hands, in order Nthe worth of these descriptions byand Diodorus. The delusions of the