OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 63 36. The public anxiety respecting Hasdrnbal's marchinto Italy increased daily. At first, envoys from theMassilians brought information that he had passedinto Gaul, and that the inhabitants of that countrywere in high spirits on the occasion; because it wasreported that he had brought a vast quantity of goldfor the purpose of hiring auxiliaries. In companywith these envoys, on their return, were sent fromRome, Sextus Antistius and Marcus Retius, to inquireinto the matter; who brought back an account thatthey had sent persons with Massilian guides, who, bymeans of some Gallic chieftains, connected in friend­ship with the Massilians, might procure exact intel­ligence of every particular; and that they had dis­covered with certainty that Hasdrubal, having alreadycollected a very numerous army, intended to passthe Alps in the following spring, and that nothingprevented his doing it immediately, but the passes ofthose mountains being shut up by the winter. PubliusjElius Pastus was elected and inaugurated into theoffice of augur, in the room of Marcus Marcellus; andCneius Cornelius Dolabella into that of king in reli­gious matters, in the room of Marcus Marcius, whohad died two years before. In this year, the firsttime since Hannibal's coming into Italy, the lustrumwas closed by the censors, Publius Sempronius Tudi-tanus and Marcus Cornelius Cethegus. The numberof citizens rated was one hundred and thirty-seventhousand one hundred and eight, a number muchsmaller than it had been before the war. It is re­corded that in this same year the comitium was co­vered, and the Roman games once repeated by thecurule ediles, Quintus Metellus and Caius Servilius;and the plebeian games twice, by the plebeian ediles,Quintus Mamilius and Marcus Caecilius Metellus.These also erected three statues in the temple of Ceres,and there was a feast of Jupiter on occasion of thegames. [A. U. C. 645. B. C. 207.] Then entered on theconsulship Cains Claudius Nero and Marcus Livius,