OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 421 Modena, the grand dutchy of Tuscany, and a large por­tion of the ecclesiastical state from Perugia to the Adriatic.The dukes, and at length the princes, of Beneventumsurvived the monarchy, and propagated the name of theLombards. From Capua to Tarentum, they reignednear five hundred years over the greatest part of the pre­sent kingdom of Naples.0 In comparing the proportion of the victorious and the Languagevanquished people, the change of language will afford ™ra™f"hethe most probable inference. According to this standard Lombards-it will appear, that the Lombards of Italy, and the Visi­goths of Spain, were less numerous than the Franks orBurgundians; and the conquerors of Gaul must yield, intheir turn, to the multitude of Saxons and Angles whoalmost eradicated the idioms of Britain. The modernItalian has been insensibly formed by the mixture of na­tions; the awkwardness of the barbarians in the nice ma­nagement of declensions and conjugations, reduced themto the use of articles and auxiliary verbs; and many newideas have been expressed by Teutonic appellations. Yetthe principal stock of technical and familiar words isfound to be of Latin derivation ;p and if we were suffici­ently conversant with the obsolete, the rustic, and themunicipal dialects of ancient Italy, we should trace theorigin of many terms which might, perhaps, be rejectedby the classic purity of Rome. A numerous army con­stitutes but a small nation, and the powers of the Lom­bards were soon diminished by the retreat of twenty thou­sand Saxons, who scorned a dependant situation, and re­turned, after many bold and perilous adventures, to theirnative country.q The camp of Alboin was of formidable 0 I have described llie slate of Italy from the excellent Dissertation of Beretti.Giannone (Istoria Civile, torn. 1. p. 374—387.) has followed the learned CamillaPelegrini in the geography of the kingdom of Naples. After the loss of the trueCalabria, the vanity of the Greeks substituted that name instead of the more ignobleappellation of Brutlium; and the change appears to have taken place before the limeof Charlemagne. (Eginard, p. 75.) 'Madei,(Verona Ulustrata, part 1. p. 310—321.) and Mnratori, (Antichita Ilali-aie, torn.2. Dissertazione 32, 33. p. 71—365.) baveasserted the native claims of (hel'alian idiom: tho former with enthusiasm, the latter with discretion; both with learn­ing, ingenuity, and truth. « Paul, deGest. Langobard. lib. 3. c. 5—7.