OCR Output 104 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. of the people withdrew from the commission its jurisdiction,and remitted the decision respecting what were domanialand what private possessions to the consuls, to whom, whereno special laws enacted otherwise, it constitutionally per­tained. This was simply a suspension of further domain-distribution under a mild form. The consul Tuditanus,by no means Gracchan in his views, and little inclined tooccupy himself with the difficult task of agrarian definition,embraced the opportunity of going off to the Ulyrian armyand leaving the duty intrusted to him unfulfilled. Theallotment-commission no doubt continued to subsist, but, asthe judicial regulation of the domain-land was at a stand­still, it was compelled to remain inactive. The reform-partywas deeply indignant. Even men like Publius Mucius andQuintus Metellus disapproved of Scipio's intervention.Assassina- Other circles were not content with expressing disap-t ion of proval. Scipio had announced for one of the following days.Emilianus. an addresg respecting the relations of the Latins; on themorning of that day he was found dead in his bed. He wasfifty-six years of age, and in full health and vigour; he hadspoken in public the day before, and then in the evening hadretired earlier than usual to his bedroom with a view toprepare the outline of his speech for the following day. Thathe became the victim of a political assassination, cannot bedoubted; he himself had shortly before mentioned in publicthe plots formed to murder him. What assassin's hand hadduring the night slain the first statesman and the first generalof his age was never discovered; and it does not become his­tory either to repeat the reports handed down from the con­temporary gossip of the city, or to set about the childishattempt to ascertain the truth out of such materials. Thismuch only is clear, that the instigator of the deed must havebelonged to the Gracchan party; Scipio's assassination wasthe democratic reply to the aristocratic massacre at thetemple of Fidelity. The tribunals did not interfere. Thepopular party, justly fearing that its leaders GaiuaGracchus, Flaccus, and Carbo, whether guilty or not, mightbe involved in the prosecution, opposed with all its mightthe institution of an inquiry; and the aristocracy, whichlost in Scipio quite as much an antagonist as an ally wasnot unwilling to let the matter sleep. The multitude and menof moderate views were horrified; none more so than Quin­tus Metellus, who had disapproved of Scipio's interference