OCR Output CHAP. LI. 407 death of Abu Obeidah might be lamented by the Chris­tians; but his brethren recollected that he was one of theten elect, whom the prophet had named as the heirs ofparadise.7 Caled survived his brethren about three years;and the tomb of the sword of God is shewn in the neigh­bourhood of Emesa. His valour, which founded in Ara­bia and Syria the empire of the caliphs, was fortified bythe opinion of a special providence; and as long as he•wore a cap, which had been blessed by Mahomet, hedeemed himself invulnerable amidst the darts of theinfidels. Progress The place of the first conquerors was suppliedrfsmcon* ty a new generation of their children and coun-Tn0639 fry10611: Syria became the seat and support of—ess. the house of Ommiyah; and the revenue, thesoldiers, the ships of that powerful kingdom, were conse­crated to enlarge on every side the empire of the caliphs.But the Saracens despise a superfluity of fame; and theirhistorians scarcely condescend to mention the subordi­nate conquests which are lost in the splendour and rapi­dity of their victorious career. To the north of Syria,they passed mount Taurus, and reduced to their obedi­ence the province of Cilicia, with its capital Tarsus, theancient monument of the Assyrian kings. Beyond asecond ridge of the same mountains, they spread theflame of war, rather than the light of religion, as far asthe shores of the Euxine and the neighbourhood of Con­stantinople. To the east they advanced to the banksand sources of the Euphrates and Tigris :z the long dis­puted barrier of Rome and Persia was for ever con­ T Abnlfeda, Annal. Moslem, p. 73. Mahomet could artfully vary the praises ofbis disciples. Of Omar he was accustomed to say, that if a prophet could ariseafter himself, it would be Omar; and that in a general calamity, Omar would beaccepted by the divine justice. (Ockley, vol. 1. p. 221.) * Al Wakidi had likewise written a history of the conquest of Diarbekir, orMesopotamia, (Ockley, at the end of the second vol.) which our interpreters donot appear to have seen. The chronicle of Dionysius of Telmar, the Jacobitepatriarch, records the taking of Edessa, A. D. 637, and of Dara, A. D. 641. (As-seman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 103.) and the attentive may glean some doubtfulinformation from the Chronography of Theophanes. (p. 285—287.) Most of thetowns of Mesopotamia yielded by surrender. (Abulpharag. p.