OCR Output 422 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. The duumvirs who had the care of performing thesacred rites, instituted the Lectisternium,* for the firsttime at Home, and continued the festival for eight day-,having spread three beds, with all the pomp and magni­ficence the simplicity of these times would admit, to ap­pease Apollo, Latona, and Diana, Hercules, Mercury,and Neptune, This ceremony was also celebrated byprivate families. Open house was kept throughout thewhole city, and every thing brought out to the street tobe used in common. Nay, it is said, that every one,known or unknown, and all strangers, were entertainedwith a hearty welcome. Persons at vartance, layingaside all animosity and disputes, conversed with freedomand affability. Prisoners were released from their chainsduring the days of the festival, and religion forbade thoseto be bound, when the ceremony was over, whom thegods had set free. In the mean time, at Veii, the army had many object)of terror, three confederate armies being ready to fallupon them at once. For all on a sudden, the CapenatesaniFalisci, having come to the assistance of the Vejen-tes as before, invested the camp, so that the Romanswere obliged to front three different ways, to repel asmany different attacks. The remembrance of Sergius and Virginius's fate,had a peculiar influence upon their behaviour. Thetroops in the grand camp, that in the former action hadbeen idle spectators, being instantly led round, fell uponthe rear of the Capenates^ who'had attacked the Roman.lines. The battle being thus begun in that quarter, quitedisconcerted the Falisci; and a sally very seasonablymade from the lesser camp during this consternation,made them fairly show their backs. The CapenatesLeing thus repulsed, the conquerors pursued them withprodigious slaughter. Nor was it long be?ore the troopswhich ravaged their country, accidentally fell io withthe scattered remains of this arm}-, and cut them all topieces. Many of the Vejentes, whilst they were re­treating to the city, were slain before their gates, whichwere shut against those who came last, to prevent theRomans from entering with them. * From Lcctos sternere, to prepare teds.