OCR Output 438 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK V. to look upon this as no favour, imagining it was onlya bait to divert their attention from more lucrative ex­pectations. For why should the people be banishedamong the Volsci, when they had in prospect Veii, amost beautiful city, and all its domains, richer and moreextensive than even the territory of Rome? With Veiithey thought Rome would bear no comparison, eitherfor situation, or the grandeur of its buildings and accom­modations, public and private. Moreover, a motion was made, which became moreserious after Rome had been taken.by the Gauls, of re­moving to Veii. But in this motion it was proposed,that part of the senate and part of the people should• settle at Veii, and that the two cities inhabited by Ro­mans, should constitute but one commonwealth. Butthis the nobility opposed so warmly that they declaredthey would sooner die in sight of the Roman people,than suffer such a bill to be tabled: ' If there, be suchdissensions in one city, what must there be in two?Would any man in his senses prefer a conquered city,to his own native city, that had conquered it? Or rea­der the captive town of Veii, more considerable afterits fall, than ever it had been before it ? In fme, thattheir fellow-citizens might leave them in their nativecountry, if they pleased, but that no compulsion shouldoblige them to relinquish the place of their birth, andtheir fellow citizens, m order to follow T. Sicinius, (itwas this tribune who had preferred the bill), the newfounder to Veii, and forsake our god Romulus, the soaof a god, and the father and founder of Rome.' CHAP. XXV. '. Disputes about Veii. Generosity of the Roman Ladies. W HILST the disputes on this subject rose to a scan­dalous height, (for the fathers had brought over some ofthe college of tribunes to be of their side), nothing pre­vented the people from coming to blows, but that themoment a shout was set up as a signal to fall on,the principal senators first presented themselves to themob, desiring them to proceed, to strike, and to put themto death, A respect to age, and to the houour and dig­