OCR Output A. D. 16.J OF TACITUS. had the misfortune of being upon bad terms with theemperor, who, during his residence in the Isle ofRhodes, had taken umbrage at the king's behaviour,and from that moment harboured the deepest resent­ment. Archelaus, it is true, had shown him nomark of respect; but that inattention did not originatein pride or arrogance. It was the conduct recom­mended by the confidential friends of Augustus, at atime when Caius Csesar, flourishing in favour, wassent to arrange the affairs of the east. In that junc­ture, to court the friendship of Tiberius would havebeen highly impolitic. After the failure bf the Csesarian line, and the ele­vation of Tiberius, letters to the eastern prince weredespatched from the emperor's mother, avowing herson's resentment, but offering an entire remission ofpast offences, provided he came in person to solicithis pardon. Archelaus did not perceive the intendedtreachery; or; perceiving it, thought it prudent to dis­semble. He risqued a journey to Rome. Tiberius received him with pride and sullen aver­sion. The king of Cappadocia was arraigned beforethe senate; and though [he charge was withoutfoundation, a royal mind, not used to acknowledge anequal, much less to bend to the humiliating conditionof a state-criminal, was naturally pierced to the quick.Worn out with grief, and drooping under the infirmi­ties of age, the unhappy monarch died of a brokenheart, or perhaps fell by his own hand. His kingdomwas reduced to a Roman province. With this newsource of wealth, Tiberius declared himself able to di­minish the tax of the hundredth penny,and accordinglychanged it to the two-hundredth. About this timedied Antiochus and Philopater; the former king ofCommagena, and the latter of Cilicia. By their deathstheir kingdoms were thrown into violent convulsions.Two factions were at variance; one, which formed alargo majority, was willing to submit to the govern­ment of Rome; the other contended for the independ­ence of their monarchy. In the same juncture theprovinces of Syria and Judsea prayed to be relievedfrom the burden of oppressive taxes.