OCR Output 'DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. condemned to support a gamester, a drunkard, or a li­bertine, unless he were guilty of homicide, poison, orsacrilege, in which cases the marriage, as it should seem,might have been dissolved by the hand of the execu­tioner. But the sacred right of the husband was inva­riably maintained to deliver his name and family fromthe disgrace of adultery: the list of mortal sins, eithermale or female, was curtailed and enlarged by successiveregulations, and the obstacles of incurable impotence,long absence, and monastic profession, were allowed torescind the matrimonial obligation. Whoever trans­gressed the permission of the law, was subject to variousand heavy penalties. The woman was stripped of herwealth and ornaments, without excepting the bodkin ofher hair: if the man introduced a new bride into hisbed, her fortune might be lawfully seized by the ven­geance of his exiled wife. Forfeiture was sometimescommuted to a fine; the fine was sometimes aggravatedby transportation to an island, or imprisonment in a mo­nastery: the injured parjty was released from the bondsof marriage; but the offender, during life or a termof years, was disabled from the repetition of nuptials.The successor of Justinian yielded to the prayers ofhis unhappy subjects, and restored the liberty ofdivorce by mutual consent: the civilians were unani­mous/ the theologians were divided,1 and the ambirguous word, which contains the precept of Christ, isflexible to any interpretation that the wisdom of a legis­lator can demand. P The Institutes are silent, but we may consult the Code6 of Theodosias, (lib. S.tit. 16. with Godefroy's Commentary, tom 1. p. 310—315.) and Justinian, (lib. 5.tit. 17.) the Pandects, (lib. 24. tit. 2.) and the Novels. (22. 117. 127. 134. 140.Justinian fluctuated to the last between civil and ecclesiastical law. 1 In pure Greek, no^ija is not a common word ; nor can the proper meaning, for­nication, be strictly applied to matrimonial sin. In a figurative sense, how far, andto what offences, may it be extended? Did Christ speak the Rabhinical or Syriaotongue? Of what original word is wopveia the translation? How variously is thatGreek word translated in the versions ancient and modern! There are two (Markx. 11. Luke xvi. 18.) to one (Matthew xix. 9.)that such ground of divorce was notexcepted by Jesus. Some critics have presumed to think, by an evasive answers heavoided the giving oB'ence either to the school of Sammai or to that of Hillel. (Selden,Uxor Ebraica, lib. 3. c. 18—22. 28. 31.) - 'i