OCR Output U6 TITOS LIVIUS' BOOK IE "dier, unless they performed the promise that had been"made them ;—that before they put arms in their hands,• ' it was highly proper they should restore them their li-"berty, that they might know whether they were to"fight for their country and fellow citizens, or for des-"potic tyrants." The consuls knew well the extent of their commissionfrom the senate; but of all those bold declai'mers, whohad talked so high within the walls of the senate-house,not one appeared to share with them in the public odium.Besides, it appeared, that this contest with the peoplewould be a serious affair. Therefore, before they shouldcome to extremities, they judged it expedient to talkover the matter with the senate a second time, whichthey did accordingly. The young senators then crowd­ed round the consuls chairs, ordering them to abdicatethe consulship, and resign an authority they wantedspirit to support. : CHAP. xxix. Tlie Consular authority slighted. Various plans proposed. J[ HE consuls having sufficiently tried both experi­ments, made this short reply: "Conscript fathers, re-"member, we tell you, that a terrible sedition is on the"point of breaking out, and we insist that they who"brand us with pusillanimity, may only assist us in"making the levies. Since you advise violent measures,•' we shall act with all the spirit the keenest of you"would desire." With these 'words, they returned totheir tribunal, and cailed upon one of the most factious,whom ihey had in their, view, to come and be inrolled.As the man stood still, without returning an answer, anda crowd got about him, to protect him; in case of need,the consuls sent a lictor to seize him. The lictor beingrepulsed, such of the senators as were present with theconsuls, exclaiming against the indignity, came downfrom the tribunal to support the lictor. But the mob,who had only preventer! the officer from seizing the man,now turned upon the senators. The consuls interposed,and the tumult was appeased. Neither stones nor darts