OCR Output 108 LIVY. and Numidians then fairly turned their hacks; andthough at first they retreated in troops, and withoutbreaking their ranks, yet when the Romans fell furi­ously on their rear they thought no more of order, butfled precipitately, and dispersed into such places aseach found convenient. Although by this battle thespirits of the Romans were somewhat raised, and thoseof the enemy depressed, yet for several following daysthe horsemen and light troops were continually en­gaged in skirmishes. 14. After making trial of their strength in theseslight engagements, Hasdrubal led out his forces tothe field; then the Romans marched out. Both armiesstood in order of battle under their respective ram­parts, neither party choosing to begin the attack ; whenit was near sunset, the Carthaginians first, and then theRomans, marched back into camp. They acted in thesame manner for several days, the Carthaginian al­ways drawing out his troops first, and first giving thesignal of retreat, when they were fatigued with stand­ing. Neither side advanced in the least, nor was aweapon discharged, nor a word uttered. The centredivisions of their lines were composed, on one side, ofRomans; on the other of Carthaginians and Africanauxiliaries: the wings were formed by the allies, whoon both sides were Spaniards. In front of the Cartha­ginian line the elephants at a distance appeared likecastles. It was now generally said in both camps thatthey were to engage in the same order in which theyhad stood before; and that their centres, consisting ofRomans and Carthaginians, who were principals inthe war, would no doubt encouuter each other withequal courage and strength of arms. When Scipiounderstood that this opinion was firmly entertained, hetook care to alter the whole plan against the day onwhich he intended to fight. On the preceding evening,therefore, he gave out orders through the camp thatthe men and horses should be refreshed and accoutredbefore day; and that the horsemen, ready armed, shouldkeep.their horses bridled and saddled. Before it was