OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 215 both the booty of cattle and the prisoners, and also apart of his forces, which were more numerous than theremainder of the business required. Then, with nomore than five hundred foot and two hundred horse,pursuing Masinissa, who had gone down from the topof the mountain, he shut him up in a narrow valley,securing the entrance at each end. Great slaughterwas there made of the Massylians; Masinissa, withnot more than fifty horsemen, effected a retreat throughthe intricate passes of the mountain, with which thepursuers were unacquainted. Bocchar, however,closely followed his steps, and overtaking him in auopen plain, near the city Clupea, surrounded himin such a manner that he slew every one of his fol足lowers except four horsemen: Masinissa with these,and after receiving a wound, slipped out of his hands,as it were, during the tumult. Their flight was in fullview, a body of horse being spread over the wholeplain, some of whom pursued these five remainingenemies, while others, in order to meet them, pushedacross their route. A large river lay in the way of thefugitives, into which they plunged their horses with足out hesitation, being pressed by greater danger frombehind. Hurried away by the current, they were car足ried down obliquely; and two of them being swal足lowed by its violent rapidity in sight of the enemy,they believed that Masinissa himself had perished:but, with the two other horsemen, he landed amongsome bushes on the farther bank. This put an end toBocchar's pursuit, for he durst not venture into theriver; and besides, he was persuaded that the objectof it no longer existed; he therefore returned to theking with the ill-grounded report of Masinissa's death.Messengers were despatched with the joyful news toCarthage; though in its spread over Africa men'sminds were variously affected by it. Masinissa, whilehealing his wounds by the application of herbs, and ina secret cave, lived for several days on what the twohorsemen procured by pillage. As soon as it wascicatrised, and he thought himself able to bear the mo-