OCR Output 158 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, they suffered themselves to be overcome bytheir pleasure, and so offend against theirlaws; they despised his righteous admonition,and laughed him to scorn; they also threat­ened to kill him, if he became an obstacle totheir inclinations. Whereupon, when hefound himself in great distress, and yet wasnot willing to overlook his guests, and seethem abused, he produced his own daughterto them; and told them, that it was* a smallerbreach of the law to satisfy their lust uponher, than to abuse his guests; supposing thathe should by this means prevent an injuryfrom being done to those guests. When theyno way abated of their earnestness for thestrange woman, but insisted absolutely ontheir desires to have her, he intreated themnot to perpetrate any such act of injustice:but they proceeded to take her away byforce; and indulging still more the violenceof their inclinations, they took the woman away to their house, and when they hadabused her the whole night, they let her goabout day-break. So she came to the placewhere she had been entertained, under greataffliction at what had happened, and durstnot look her husband in the face for shame;for she concluded that he would never for­give her, for what she had done. So she felldown, and gave up the ghost; but her hus­band supposed his wife was only fast asleep;and thinking nothing of a more melancholynature had happened, endeavoured to raiseher up, resolving to speak comfortably to her,since she did not voluntarily expose herselfto those men's lust, but was forced away totheir house. But as soon as he perceivedthat she was dead, he acted as prudently asthe greatness of the misfortune would admit;and laid his dead wife upon the beast, andcarried her home. Then cuttingt her limb by limb into twelve pieces, he sent them to every . . __ * See Gen. xix. 8. t Interpreters say but little concerning the real viewsof the Levite in this transaction; they merely intimate,that it was done to excite a general indignation against theauthors of the injury he had sustained. His motives cer­tainly were good and regular. He intended to unite thewhole nation in vengeance against a crime, in which it wasinterested; but as they might be checked in the extent ofthe punishment by the number, the credit, and the power,of the offenders; by the natural commiseration which isfelt for those who are of the same blood; or by an aver­sion to involve a city in destruction; he sought and seizeda method which put them to the indispensable necessity ofespousing his cause. The only part which he had to takew\s, to cut in pieces the body of his wife, which he did, orelse that of an ox, or other like animal, which had beeneither devoted or offered in sacrifice, and to send a part ofit to each tribe. In consequence of this, every tribe en­tered into an indissoluble engagement to see justice donehim for the injury he had received. This is what the in­terpreters of scripture seem not to have known, and whichit is necessary to explain. The ancients had several ways of uniting themselvestogether by strict ties, which lasted for a stipulated time,amongst these may be noticed the sacrifice of Abraham,the circumstances of which are mentioned, Gen. xvi. 9.kc. Another method was to take a bullock offered or de­voted in sacrifice, cut it into pieces, and distribute it. Allwho had a piece of this devoted bullock were thencefor­ward connected, and were to concur in carrying on theaffair which had given occasion for the sacrifice. But asthis devoting and dividing was variously practised, it alsoproduced different engagements. If he who was at theexpense of the sacrifice were a public person, or in highoffice, he sent of his own accord a piece of the victim toall who were subject to him; and by this act obliged themto enter into his views. If the sacrifice were offered bya private person, those only who voluntarily took a pieceof the sacrifice entered into a strict engagement to espouse his interest. Connections of this kind derived their force,from the deities, in honour of which the sacrifice wasoffered; from the true God, when made by the Jews;from idols, when made by the Gentiles. The Jews werecontent to invoke and take the Lord to witness, whereasthe Pagans never failed to place upon an altar of greenturf, the deities which presided over their covenant.These deities were called common, because they werethe common deities of all who were thus united, and re­ceived in common the honours which they thought properto pay them. A direct proof of these facts is recorded in 1 Sam. xi. 7."And Saul took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces,and sent them throughout all the coasts of Israel by thehands of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forthafter Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto hisoxen. And the fear of the Lord fell on the people, andthey came out with one consent." Another proof is drawnfrom the customs observed by the Scythians and Molos-sians. Lucian thus speaks of what passed between thesepeople upon urgent occasions. "When any one had re­ceived an injury, and had not the means of avenging him­self, he sacrificed an ox, and cut it into pieces, which hecaused to be dressed and publicly exposed; then he spreadout the skin of the victim, and sat upon it, with his handstied behind him. All who chose to take part in the injurywhich had been done, took up a piece of the ox, and sworeto supply and maintain for him, one five horses, anotherten, others still more; some infantry, each according tohis strength and ability. They who had only their person,engaged to march themselves. Now an army composedof such soldiers, far from retreating or disbanding, was in­vincible, as it was engaged by oath." These circumstances, compared with the account givenof the Levite's conduct, and the subsequent behaviour ofthe tribes, clearly point out, that the method used by theLevite to obtain redress was consistent with the establishedusages of the times, and effected the retribution he desiredto see accomplished. B.