OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 213 public institutions of their country. The revolution chap.of almost one thousand years, from the twelve tables XXXVILto the reign of Justinian, may be divided into threeperiods almost equal in duration, and distinguishedfrom each other by the mode of instruction and thecharacter of the civilians*. Pride and ignorancecontributed, during the first period, to confine within The fastnarrow limits the science of the Roman law. On the ATufc.public days of market or assembly, the masters of the 303—648-art were seen walking in the forum, ready to impartthe needful advice to the meanest of their fellow-citizens, from whose votes, on a future occasion, theymight solicit a grateful return. As their years andhonours increased, they seated themselves at home ona chair or throne, to expect with patient gravity thevisits of their clients, who at the dawn of day, fromthe town and country, began to thunder at their door.The duties of social life, and the incidents of judicialproceeding, were the ordinary subject of these con­sultations, and the verbal or written opinion of thejurisconsults was framed according to the rules ofprudence and law. The youths of their own orderand family were permitted to listen; their childrenenjoyed the benefit of more private lessons, and theMucian race was long renowned for the hereditaryknowledge of the civil law. The second period, the Secondlearned and splendid age of jurisprudence, may be aTu/c.extended from the birth of Cicero to the reign of 648~988- * The series of the civil lawyers is deduced by Pomponius (de Origine JurisPandect. 1. i. tit. ii.). The moderns have discussed, with learning and criticism,this branch of literary history; and among these I have chiefly been guided byGravina (p. 41—79) and Heineccius (Hist . J. B. No. 113—351). Cicero, moreespecially in his books de Oratore, de Claris Oratoribus, de Legibus, and theClavis Ciceroniana of Ernesti (under the names of Mucius, &c.) afford muchgenuine and pleasing information. Horace often alludes to the morning laboursof the civilians (Serm. I. i. 10. Epist. II. i. 103, &c.). Agricolam laudat juris legumque peritusSub galli cantum, consultor ubi ostia pulsat. Romae duke diu f'uii et solemne, reclusaMane domo vigilare, clienti proinere jura. p3