OCR Output 12) LANUVIUM. LANGOBARDL afterwards they shook off the yoke, and, in conjnnc-tirtt with the Semnoncs, joined the confederacy of theCh^rus/ans azainat the Marcomanni. (Tac. Ann. ii.45.) When, in consequence of the murder of Armi-nias, the power of the Cheruscans was decaying moreand more, the Langobardi not on It supported andrestored Italus, the king of the Cheruscans who badbeen expelled, but seem to have extended their ownterritory in the south, so as to occupy the countrybetween Halle, Magdeburg, and Leipzig. (Tac. .-inn.xi. 17.) They were not a numerous tribe, but theirwant of numbers was made up for by their naturalbravery (Tac. Germ, 40), and Velleius describestbem as a "gens etiam Gennana feritate ferocior.".Shortly after these events the Langobardi disappearfrom history, until they are mentioned again byPtolemy (tc), who places them in the extensiveterritory between the Rhine and Water, and evenbeyond the latter river almost as far as the Kibe,They thus occupied the country which had formerlybeen inhabited by the tribes forming the Cheruscanconfederacy. This great extension of their territoryshows that their power must have been increasingever aince their liberation from the yoke of Maro-bmluus. After this lime we again hear nothing ofthe langobardi for a considerable period. They areindeed mentioned, in an excerpt from the history ofI'etrn* Patricias (Exc. de I^gat. p. 124), as alliesof the Obii on the frontiers of i'annonia; but other­wise history is silent about tb'-rn, until, in the secondhalf of the 5th rentury, they appear on the north ofthe Danube in Upper Hungary as tributary to theHeruli (Procop. de Bell Goth. ii. 15, who describestbem as Christians). Whether these Langobardi,however, were the Mime people whom we last metwith between the Rhine and the Kibe, or whetherthey were only a band of emigrants who had in ther/»ur-e of time become ho numerous as to form adtatvet tribe, is a question which cannot be answeredwith certainty, although the latter seems to be them<rre probable supposition. Their natural love offreedom rould not bear to submit to the rule of theHeruli, and after having defeated the king of theUtter in a preat battle,they subdued the neighbouringQuadi, likewise a Suevian tribe, and henceforth theywere for a long time the terror of their neighboursand the Roman province of Pannonia. (Paul. Mac.1. *12.) For, being the most powerful nation in thosepart*, they extended their dominion down the Danube,and occupied the extensive plaiits in the north ofDana on the river Theiss, where they first came inconflict with the (iepidae, and entered I'annonia.(Paul. Disc i. 20.) The emperor Justinian, wantingtheir support against the (iepidae, gave them landsand supplied them with money (Procop. Hell. Goth.lii. 33), ami under their king Audoin they gained agreat victory over the Gepidae. (Paul. Disc i. 25;Procop, Bell Goth. iii. 34, iv. 18, 25.) Alboin,Audotn s successor, after having, in conjunction withthe Avari, completely overthrown the empire of theGepidae, led the Langobardi, in a. d. 568, into Italy,where they permanently established themselves, andfounded the kingdom from which down to this daythe north-east of Italy bears the name of Lombanly.(Exc. de Leant, pp. 303, .104; Marius Kpiac Chron.Hone. ii. 412.) The occasion of their invading Italyis related as follows. When Alboin bad concludedhis alliance with the Avari, and had ceded to tbemhis own dominion*, Narscs, to take revenge Up"nJustin, invited them to ipiit their poor comrry and<*ke posscssioa of the fertile plains of Italy. Alboin accordingly crowed the Alps, and as the north ofItaly was badly defended, lie succeeded in a aborttime in establishing hit kingdom, which continued taflourish until it was overpowered and destroyed byCharlemagne. (Paul. Diac. ii. 5; Kginhard, I'tt.Carol M. 6.) The history of this singular people,whose name still survives, has been written in Latinby Paul us Diaconus (Warnefried), in the reign ofCharlemagne, and by another Lombard of the 9thcentury, whose name is unknown. (Comp. Wilbrim,Germanien, p. 281, foil.; Zeuss, die IteuUchem e*Wdie Xachbarstumme, p. 109, foil.; F. Dufft. Qw**-tiones de Antiquittima Longobardorum Hilton*,Berlin, 1830, 8vo.; Knch-Sternfeld, das Jieick oVrI/mgobarden in Italien, Munich, 1839; Latham.Tac. Germ. p. 139, and Kpileg. p. Ixxxiv.) [LS. ] LAKGOBRI'GA. [Lusitania.J LANU'VIUM (Aorotftor, Strab.; Aaroo€ior,Ptol.: F.th. Aavovios, Lanuvinus: Civita Larmia\an ancient and important city of Latium, situated ona lofty hill forming a projecting spur or promontoryof the Alban Hills towards the S. It was distautabout 20 miles from Home, on the right of the Apr.* anWay, rather more tluin a mile from the road. Thename is often written in inscriptions, even of a goodtime, Isonivittm; hence the confusion which baaarisen in all our MSS. of ancient authors between itand iMrmium: the two names are so frequently'interchanged as to leave constant doubt which ufthe two is really meant, and in the middle are*they appear to have been actually regarded as tr»esame place; whence the name of " Civitas Lavinia"by which Lanuvium is still known, and whichcan be traced as far back as the fourteenth centmrj.The foundation of Lanuvium was ascribed by a tra­dition recorded by Appian (B. C. ii. 20) to Diomed;a legend probably arising from tome fancied con­nection with the worship of Juno at Argos. A tra­dition that has a more historical aspect, thoojrhperhaps little more historical worth, represented itas one of the colonies of Alba. (Died. vii. as*.Ktuteb. Arm. p. 185.) The statement of Cato (op.Priscian. iv. 4. § 21) that it was one of the due*which co-operated in the consecration of the cele­brated temple of Diana at Aricia. is the first fat-tconcerning it that can be looked upon as historical,and shows that Lanuvium was already a city ofconsideration and power. Its name ap[*ars also inthe list given by Dionysios of the cities that fora-Mthe league against Home in B. c. 496, and there tano doubt that it was in fact one of the thirty citie*of the Latin League. (Dionys. v. 61; Niebuhr,vol. ii p. 17.) But from this time we bear Utileof it, except that it was the faithful ally of Bom*during her lung wars with the Vulscians andAequians (Liv. vi. 21): the position of Unanumwould indeed cause it to be one of the cities mo*timmediately interested in opposing the prugrtaa tsfthe Volscians, and render it as it were the naturalrival of Antium. We have no explanation of thecauses which, in B.c 383, led the Lannvtans and-denly to chance their policy, and take up anna, to­gether with some other Latin cities, in favour of the.Volscians (Liv. vi. 21). They must have sharedin the defeat of their allies near Satricum; but ap­parently were admitted to submission on iavourahieterms, and we hear no more of them till the graftLatin War in s.c 340, in which they look anactive and important part. At first, ioderd, tr*rt*rm to have hesitated and delayed to take thefield; but in the two last campaigns their force* am