OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. . 251 tkmed for their reception, and returned to Constantinople, from whence they weredistributed to their respective homes. But the freedom of Basil was naked anddestitute: his farm was ruined by the calamities of war: after his father's death,his manual labour or service, could no longer support a family of orphans; and heresolved to seek a more conspicuous theatre, in which every virtue and every vicemay lead to the paths of greatness. The first night of his arrival at Constantino­ple, without friends or money, the weary pilgrim slept on the steps of the churchof St. Diomede; he was fed by the casaal hospitality of a monk; and was intro­duced to the service of a cousin and a namesake of the emperor Theophilus: who,though himself of a diminutive person, was always followed by a train of tall andhandsome domestics. Basil attended his patron to the government of Peloponnesus;eclipsed, by his personal merit, the birth and dignity of Theophilus, and formeda useful connexion with a wealthy and charitable matron of Patras. Her spiritualor carnal love embraced the young adventurer, whom she adopted as her son.Danielis presented him with thirty slaves; and the produce of her bounty was ex­pended in the support of his brothers, and the purchase of some large estates inMacedonia. His gratitude or ambition still attached him to the service of The­ophilus; and a lucky accident recommended him to the notice of the court. A fa­mous wrestler, in the train of the Bulgarian ambassadors, had defied, at the royalbanquet, the boldest and most robust of the Greeks. The strength of Basil waspraised: he accepted the challenge; and the barbarian champion was overthrownat the first onset. A beautiful but vicious horse was condemned to be hamstrung;it was subdued by the dexterity and courage of the servant of Theophilus; and hisconqueror was promoted to an honourable rank in the imperial stables. But itwas impossible to obtain the confidence of Michael without complying with hisvices; and his new favourite, the great chamberlain of the palace, was raised andsupported by a disgraceful marriage with a royal concubine, and the dishonour ofhis sister, who succeeded to her place. The public administration had been aban­doned to the C<esar Bardas, the brother and enemy of Theodora; but the arts offemale influence persuaded Michael to hate and to fear his uncle: he was drawnfrom Constantinople, under the pretext of a Cretan expedition, and stabbed in thetent of audience, by the sword of the chamberlain, and in the presence of the em­peror. About a month after this execution, Basil was invested with the title ofAugustus and the government of the empire. He supported this unequal associa­tion till his influence was fortified by popular esteem. His life was endangered bythe caprice of the emperor; and his dignity was profaned by a second colleague,who had rowed in the galleys. Yet the murder of his benefactor must be con­demned as an act of ingratitude and treason; and the churches which he dedicatedto the name of St. Michael, were a poor and puerile expiation of his guilt. The different ages of Basil I. may be compared with those of Augustus. Thesituation of the Greek did not allow him in his earliest youth to lead an armyagainst his country, or to proscribe the noblest of her sons; but his aspiring geniusstooped to the arts of a slave; he dissembled his ambition and even his virtues, andgrasped, with the bloody hand of an assassin, the empire which he ruled with thewisdom and tenderness of a parent. A private citizen may feel his interest repug­nant to his duty; but it must be from a deficiency of sense or courage, that an ab­solute monarch can separate his happiness from his glory, or his glory from thepublic welfare. The life or panegyric of Basil has indeed been composed andpublished under the long reign of his descendants; but even their stability on thethrone may be justly ascribed to the superior merit of their ancestor. *In his cha­racter, his grandson Constantine has attempted to delineate a perfect image ofroyalty; but that feeble prince, unless he had copied a real model, could not ea­sily have soared above the level of his own conduct or conceptions. But the mostsolid praise of Basil is drawn from the comparison of a ruined and a flourishingmonarchy, that which he wrested from the dissolute Michael, and that which hebequeathed to the Macedonian dynasty. The evils which had been sanctified bytime and example, were corrected by his master-hand; and he revived, if not thenational spirit, at least the order and majesty of the Roman empire. His appli­cation was indefatigable, his temper cool, his understanding vigorous and decisive;and in his practice he observed that rare "and salutary moderation, which pursueseach virtue, at an equal distance between the opposite vices. His military serviceliad been confined to the palace; nor was the emperor endowed with the spirit orthe talents of a warrior. Yet under his reign the Roman arms were again formi­dable to the barbarians. As soon as he had formed a new army by discipline and