OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 393 isants achieved the conquest of Transoxiana and Spain, a third army of Saracensoverspread the provinces of Asia Minor, and approached the borders of the By­zantine capital. But the attempt and disgrace of the second siege, was reservedfor his brother Soliman, whose ambition appears to have been quickened by amore active and martial spirit. In the revolutions of the Greek empire after thetyrant Justinian had been punished and avenged, an humble secretary, Anastasiusor Artemius, was promoted by chance or merit to the vacant purple. He wasalarmed by the sound of war; and his ambassador returned from Damascus withthe tremendous news, that the Saracens were preparing an armament by sea andland, such as would transcend the experience of the past, or the belief of the pre­sent age. The precautions of Anastasius were not unworthy of his station, or ofthe impending danger. He issued a peremptory mandate, that all persons whowere not provided with the means of subsistence for a three years' siege shouldevacuate the city; the public granaries and arsenals were abundantly replenished;the walls were restored and strengthened; and the engines for casting stones, ordarts, or fire, were stationed along the ramparts, or in the brigantines of war, ofwhich an additional number was hastily constructed. To prevent, is safer, aswell as more honourable, than to repel an attack; and a design was meditated,above the usual spirit of the Greeks, of burning the naval stores of the enemy,the cypress timber that had been hewn in mount Libanus, and was piled along thesea-shore of Phoenicia, for the service of the Egyptian fleet. This generous en­terprise was defeated by the cowardice or treachery of the troops, who in the newlanguage of the empire, were styled of the ubseguian theme.(l) They murderedtheir chief, deserted their standard in the isle of Rhodes, dispersed themselvesover the adjacent continent, and deserved pardon or reward by investing with thepurple a simple officer of the revenue. The name of Theodosius might recom­mend him to the senate and people; but, after some months, he sunk into a clois­ter, and resigned, to the firmer hand of Leo, the Isaurian, the urgent defence ofthe capital and empire. The most formidable of the Saracens, Moslemah, thebrother of the caliph, was advancing at the head of one hundred and twenty thou­sand Arabs and Persians, the greater part mounted on horses or camels; and thesuccessful sieges of Tyana, Amorium, and Pergamus, were of sufficient durationto exercise their skill, and to elevate their hopes. At the well-known passage ofAbydus, on the Hellespont, the Mahometan arms were transported for the firsttime, from Asia to Europe. From thence, wheeling round the Thracian cities ofthe Propontis, Moslemah, invested Constantinople on the land side, surrounded hiscamp with a ditch and rampart, prepared and planted his engines of assault, anddeclared, by words and actions, a patient resolution of expecting the return ofseed-time and harvest, should the obstinacy of the besieged prove equal to hisown. The Greeks would gladly have ransomed their religion and empire, by afine or assessment of a piece of gold on the head of each inhabitant of the city;but the liberal offer was rejected with disdain, and the presumption of Moslemahwas exalted by the speedy approach and invincible force of the navies of Egyptand Syria. They are said to have amounted to eighteen hundred ships: the num­ber betrays their inconsiderable size; and of the twenty stout and capacious ves­sels, whose magnitude impeded their progress, each was manned with no morethan one hundred heavy armed soldiers. This huge armada proceeded on asmooth sea and with a gentle gale, towards the mouth of the Bosphorus; the sur­face of the strait was overshadowed, in the language of the Greeks, with a moving;forest, and the same fatal night had been fixed by the Saracen chief for a generalassault by sea and land. To allure the confidence of the enemy, the emperor hadthrown aside the chain that usually guarded the entrance of the harbour; butwhile they hesitated whether they should seize the opportunity, or apprehend thesnare, the ministers of destruction were at hand. The fireships of the Greeks■were launched against them; the Arabs, their arms, and vessels, were involved inthe same flames; the disorderly fugitives were dashed against each other, oroverwhelmed in the waves; and I no longer find a vestige of the fleet, that hadthreatened to extirpate the Roman name. A still more fatal and irreparable losswas that of the caliph Soliman, who died of an indigestion(2) in his camp near (1) In the division of the themes, or provinces described by Constantine Porphyroffenitus de Thematibus, (lib.i. p. 9,10.) theobieguiwn^n Latin appellation of the army aod palace, wasthefourfn in the public order. Nicevan the metropolis, and its jurisdiction extended from the Hellespont over the adjacent parts of Bithynia andPhrygia, (See the two maps prefixed by Delisle to the Imperinm Orientate of Bfttiduri.) (2) The caliph had emptied two baskets of egjrsand office, which be swallowed alternately, and the repastw as concluded with marrow and sugar, lu one of his pilgrimages to Mecca, Solomon ate, at a single meal.se­