OCR Output 296 [book nn. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Syria. There he met with one Rezon,* whohad run away from Hadadezer,f king ofZobah, his master, and was become a robberin that country; and joined friendship withhim, who had already a band of robbersabout him. So he went up and seized uponthat part of Syria, and was made kingthereof. He also made incursions into theland of Israel, and did in it no small mischief,and spoiled it, and that in the life time ofSolomon. And such was the calamity whichthe Hebrews suffered by Hadad. There was also one of Solomon's ownnation that made an attempt against him,Jeroboam, the son of Nebat; who had an ex­pectation of rising, from a prophecy that hadbeen made to him long before. He was lefta child by his father, and brought up by hismother; and when Solomon saw that he wasof an active and bold disposition, he madehim the curator of the walls which he builtround about Jerusalem. And he took suchcare of those works, that the king approvedof his behaviour, and gave him as a rewardfor the same, the charge over the tribe ofJoseph. And when about that time Jeroboamwas once going out of Jerusalem, a prophetof the city Shilo, whose name was Ahijah,met him, and saluted him; and when he hadtaken him a little aside to the place wherethere was no one present, he rent the gar­ment he had into twelve pieces, and badeJeroboam take ten of them; saying, " This isthe will of God; he will part the dominion of Solomon, and give one tribe, with that whichis next it, to his son; because of the promisemade to David for his succession; and willgive ten tribes to thee; because Solomon hathsinned against him, and delivered himself upto women, and to their gods. Seeing, there­fore, thou knowest the cause for which Godhath changed his mind, and is alienated fromSolomon, be thou righteous, and keep thelaws; because thou hast proposed to thee thegreatest of all rewards for thy piety, and thehonour thou shalt pay to God; namely, to beas greatly exalted as thou knowest David tohave been." So Jeroboam was elevated by these wordsof the prophet, and being a young manJ ofwarm temper, and ambitious of greatness, hecould not be quiet. And when he had sogreat a charge in the government, and calledto mind what had been revealed to him byAhijah, he endeavoured to persuade thepeople to forsake Solomon; to make a dis­turbance, and to bring the government overto himself. But when Solomon understoodhis intention and treachery,|| he sought tocatch him and kill him. But Jeroboamwas informed of it beforehand; and fled toShishak, king of Egypt; and there abode tillthe death of Solomon. By which means hegained these two advantages; to suffer noharm from Solomon, and to be preserved forthe kingdom. So Solomon died when hewas already an old man, having reigned§eighty years,** and lived ninety-four. He * 1 Kings xi. 23. t When David made war against Hadadezer, Rezon,one of his generals, escaped from the field of battle, withthe troops under his command; and, having lived for alittle while hy plunder and robbery, at length seized onDamascus, and reigned there. But his reign was not long.For David took Damascus, as well as the other parts ofSyria, and left it in subjection to his son Solomon, till Godwas pleased to suffer this Rezon to recover Damascus,and there re-establish himself, to the great disturbance ofthe latter part of Solomon's reign. Calmef s Comment. B. SThis youth of Jeroboam when Solomon built theIs of Jerusalem, not very long after he had finished histwenty years' building of the temple, and his own palace;or not very long after the twenty-fourth year of his reign,1 Kings ix. 24. 2 Chron. viii. 11. and his youth here stillmentioned, when Solomon's wickedness was become in­tolerable; fully confirm my former observation, that suchhis wickedness began early, and continued yery long.See Eccltis. xlvii. 14. Had we this discourse of Jose-phus's, wherein he intended to enlarge on this part ofSolomon's life (which part is only in brief touched upon in our other copies, 1 Kings xi. and is wholly omitted inthe books of Chronicles) we had probably been morefully informed of this matter, I! How Solomon came to know what was thus transactedbetween Ahijah and Jeroboam alone, is a question of nogreat difficulty. For perhaps the prophet made no scrupleto report what he delivered in the name of the Lord; per­haps Jeroboam himself, being puffed up with this assu­rance, could not contain, but told it to some of his confi­dants, who spread it abroad; or perhaps his servants,though they heard not the words the prophet spake, yet.seeing him rend the garment into twelve parts, and giveten to him, might speak of this strange and unaccountableaction, which Solomon, as soon as he came to hear of it,might easily understand, because the same prophet verylikely had told him but just before, that the kingdomshould be rent from him, and given to his servant, 1 Kingsxiv. 8. Patrick1!! Commentary. B. § From an. 1056 to 976 B.' C. ** That Josephus justly ascribes eighty years to thereign of Solomon, see Essay on the Old Testament,page 31, 32.