OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. 101 .—BOOK XXVIII. four horses, attended by the troops; Caius ClaudiusNero, on horseback, without troops.' As the unitingof their triumphs in this manner enhanced the glory ofboth the consuls, so it reflected peculiar honor on himwho condescended to appear in the procession, asmuch inferior to his colleague in magnificence, as hewas superior to him in merit. People said, that ' thecommander on horseback had, in the space of six days,traversed the extent of Italy, and had fought a pitchedbattle with Hasdrubal in Gaul, on the very day whenHannibal imagined he was lying in his camp oppositeto him in Apulia; that thus this single consul (equalto the defence of both extremities of Italy against twoarmies and two generals) had opposed against one, bisskill; against the other, his person. That the veryname of Nero had been sufficient to confine Hannibalto his camp; and as to Hasdrubal, by what othermeans than by the arrival of Nero had he been over­whelmed and cut off? The other consul, therefore,might proceed in his stately chariot: he was drawn,indeed, by a number of horses, but the real triumphbelonged to him who had only one; and that Nero,though he should go on foot, deserved to be for evercelebrated, both for having acquired so much glory inthe war, and shown so much indifference to the pomp­ous display of it in the present procession.' Withsuch encomiums did the spectators attend Nerothrough his whole progress to the capitol. The con­suls carried to the treasury three hundred thousandsesterces' in money, and eighty thousand asses2 ofbrass; to the soldiers, Marcus Livius distributed fifty-six asses3 each. Caius Claudius promised the samesum to his absent troops, as soon as he should returnto the army. It was remarked that the soldiers, onthat day, directed more of their military songs andverses to Caius Claudius than to their own com­mander; that the horsemen distinguished Lucius Ve-turius and Quintus Coecilius, lieutenants-general, byextraordinary praises, exhorting the commons to ap- « 24,218/.15s. 3 2561.6s. Sd. 3 3s. 7\d.