OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL tinople, the islands of Crete(l) and Sicily were subdued by the Arabs. Theformer of these conquests is disdained by their own writers, who were ignorant ofthe fame of Jupiter and Minos; but it has not been overlooked by the Byzantinehistorians, who now begin to cast a clearer light on the affairs of their own times. (2)A band of Andalusian volunteers, discontented with the climate or government ofSpain, explored the adventures of the sea; but as they sailed in no more than tenor twenty galleys, their warfare must be branded with the name of piracy. As thesubjects and secretaries of the "white party, they might lawfully invade the domi­nions of the black caliphs. A rebellious faction introduced them into Alexandria;(S)they cut in pieces both friends and foes, pillaged the churches and the moschs,sold above six thousand Christian captives, and maintained their station in thecapital of Egypt, till they were oppressed by the forces and the presence of Al-mamon himself. From the mouth of the Nile to the Hellespont, the islands andsea-coasts both of the Greeks and Moslems were exposed to their depredations;they saw, they envied, they tasted, the fertility of Crete, and soon returned withforty galleys to a more serious attack. The Andalusians wandered over the landfearless and unmolested; but when they descended with their plunder to the sea­shore, their vessels were in flames, and their chief, Abu Caab, confessed himselfthe author of the mischief. Their clamours -accused His madness or treachery:"Of what do you complain?" replied the crafty emir. "I have brought you to aland flowing with milk and honey. Here is your true country; repose from yourtoils, and forget the barren place of your nativity.—And our wives and children?—Your beauteous captives will supply the place of your wives, and in their em­braces you will soon become the fathers of a new progeny." The first habitationwas their camp, with a ditch and rampart, in the bay of Suda; but an apostatemonk led them to a more desirable position in the eastern parts; and the name ofCandax, their fortress and colony, has been extended to the whole island, underthe corrupt and modern appellation of Candia. The hundred cities of the age ofMinos were diminished to thirty; and of these, only one, most probably Cydonia, hadcourage to retain the substance of freedom and the profession of Christianity. TheSaracens of Crete soon repaired the loss of their navy; and the timbers of mountIda were launched into the main. During a hostile period of one hundred andthirty-eight years, the princes of Constantinople attacked these licentious corsairswith fruitless curses and ineffectual arms. • The loss of Sicily(4) was occasioned by an act of superstitious rigour. Anamorous youth, who had stolen a nun from her cloister, was sentenced by the em­peror to the amputation of his tongue. Euphemius appealed to the reason andpolicy of the Saracens of Africa; and soon returned with the imperial purple, afleet of one hundred ships, and an army of seven hundred horse and ten thousandfoot. They landed at Mazara near the ruins of the ancient Selinus; but after somepartial victories, Syracuse(5) was delivered by the Greeks, the apostate was slainbefore her walls, and his African friends were reduced to the necessity of feedingon the flesh of their own horses. In their turn they were relieved by a powerfulre-enforcement of their brethren of Andalusia: the largest and western part of theisland was gradually reduced, and the commodious harbour of Palermo was chosenfor the seat of the naval and military power of the Saracens. Syracuse preservedabout fifty years the faith which she had sworn to Christ and to Cssar. In thelast and fatal siege, her citizens displayed some remnant of the spirit which haG (1) The authors from whom I have learned the most of the ancient and modern state of Crete, are Belon (Ob­servations, See. e. iii.—xx. Paris, 1555.,) Tournefort (Voyage tin Levant, torn. i. lettrea et 3.,) and Meursius(Creta, in his works, torn. iii. p. 343—544.) Although Crete is styled by Homer n*sby Dionysius Afco?* nmmi iufcorc;, I cannot conceive that mountainous island to surpass, or even to equal, io fertility, the greater partof Spain. (2) The most authentic and circumstantial intelligence is obtained from the four books of the Continuation ofTheophanes, compiled by the pen or the command of Constantine Porphyrogenitus, with the life of his fa<hcrBasil the Macedonian (Scriptores poBt Theophanem, p. 1—162. a Francis. Combesis, Paris, 1685.) The loss ofCrete and Sicily is related, lib. ii. p. 46—52. To these we may add the secondary evidence of Joseph Geueiins(lib. ii.fr. 21. Venet. 1733.,) George Cedrenus (Compend. p. 506—508..) and John Scylitzes Curopalata (apndKaron. Anna). Eccles. A. D. 827. no. 24. Stc.) But the modern Greeks are such notorious plagiaries, that Xshould only emote a plurality of names. (3) Benaudot (Hist. Patriarch. A"lex. p. 251—255. 268—270.) has described the ravages of the AndalusianArabs in Egypt, but has forgot to connect them with the conquest of Crete. (4) (says the continuator of Theophanes, lih; ii. p. 51.) Ss T«yr» <r«[pso"T«Tc* *tn xXaTiwunpo* ^ totiypxqeuT* fcjfic^uwtrrw itej yjtfx; jxflowr* tipar. This history of the loss of Sicily is no longer extant. Muratori(Annal d'ltulia, torn. vii. p. 7. io. 21. &:c.) lias added some circumstances from the Italian chronicles. (5) The splendid and interesting Tragedy of Tancrede would adapt itself much better to this epoch, titan fothe date (A. D. 1005.) which Voltaire himself has chosen. But I must gently reproach the poet, for bar&uTgjivto the Greek subjects the spirit of modern knights and ancient republicans.