OCR Output OF THE KOMAN EMPIRE. 453 answer, the ambassadors of Eugenius; and almost chap.two years were consumed in the preparations of the XXI1' .civil war. The industry of the two master-generals, Stilicho Theodo,and Timasius, was directed to recruit the numbers, t™Jr£l 'pares lor and to revive the discipline, of the Roman legions. war,The formidable troops of Barbarians marched underthe ensigns of their national chieftains. The Iberian,the Arab, and the Goth, who gazed on each other"with mutual astonishment, were inlisted in the ser­vice of the same prince; and the renowned Alaricacquired, in the school of Theodosius, the knowledgeof the art of war, which he afterwards so fatallyexerted for the destruction of Rome *. The emperor of the West, or, to speak more pro- hu vic-perly, his general Arbogastes, was instructed by the e^"^misconduct and misfortune of Maximus, how dan- a.d. 394.gerous it might prove to extend the line of defence Sept , 6against a skilful antagonist, who was free to press, orto suspend, to contract, or to multiply, his variousmethods of attack. Arbogastes fixed his station onthe confines of Italy: the troops of Theodosius werepermitted to occupy, without resistance, the provincesof Pannonia, as far as the foot of the Julian Alps; andeven the passages of the mountains were negligently,or perhaps artfully, abandoned to the bold invader.He descended from the hills, and beheld, with someastonishment, the formidable camp of the Gauls andGermans, that covered with arms and tents the opencountry, which extends to the walls of Aquileia, andthe banks of the Frigidus, or Cold River. This nar­row theatre of the war, circumscribed by the Alps andthe Hadriatic, did not allow much room for the ope­rations of military skill; the spirit of Arbogasteswould have disdained a pardon; his guilt extinguished * Zosimus, 1. iv. p. 280. Socrates, 1. vii. 10. Alaric himself (de Bell.Getico, 524.) dwell* with more complacency on his early exploits against theRomans. G G 3