OCR Output XIMENAE. 101 UNITES ROMAXI. approach (Pol. i. 42), would now effectually preventit from being used as a port for large vessels.(Smyth, /. c. pp. 233, 234.) It is a strung proof of the extent to which Greekculture and civilisation were diffused throughoutSicily, that, though wc have no account of Lily-hiearn being at any time in possession of the Greeks,but, on the contrary, we know positively that it wasfounded by the Carthaginians, and continued intheir hands till it passed under the dominion ofRwne. yet the coins of Lilybaeum are exclusivelyCrnwk; and we learn from Cicero that it was pos­sible fur a man to acquire a knowledge of the GreeklirtTuage and literature in that city (Cic. in Caer.U.12). [E.H.B.] COIX OF ULY5AEUM. Ll'MEXAE (\tft4vai), also called Limsopous(.\mriy tto\is), a place in the north of Pisidia,*bieh is mentioned only by ecclesiastical writers(HwroeL p. 672; Conctl. Chalced. p. 670; Con­di Const iii. p. 676, where it is called Aufi-kwi). The ancient ruins of Galaudos, on the eastof the lake of Eyerdir, are believed to belong toLimenae. (Arundell, Dtscov. in Asia Minor, vol. i.p. 326; Franz, Fun/ InscJtrifl, p. 35.) [L. S.]LIME'N'IA (Aiftcrfa), a town of Cyprus, whichStrabj (x. p. 63.'J) places S. of Soli. It appears frompmne ecclesiastical documents cited by Wesseling(ap, Bierocl.) to have been 4 M. P. from Soli. NowLirnan. (Engel, Kypros, vol. i. p. 77.) [E. H. B.]U'MIA, river and town. [Gallaecia.]Ll'MlCI. [Gallakcia.] LIMIG ANTES. The ordinary account of theLimigantes is as follows. In a. d. 334 — 337, theSinnauans, in alliance with the Vandals underViiunur, provoke the indignation of Constantine bytaeir inroads on the Empire. He leaves them to thes**nrd of Geberic the Gothic king. Reduced andbumbl-d by him, they resort to the expedient oftnniag their slaves. These rebel against theirroasters, whom they either reduce or expel. Ofti** that leave their country, some take armsomler the Gothic king, others retreat to the partsUyond the Carpathians; a third portion seeks theKfTice of Rune, and is established, to the number of300,1)00, in different parts of Pannonia, Thrace,Macedonia, and Italy (Gibbon, c xviii. with note). Xeass (Die t)eutschen, ffc, s. v. Sarmatoe) holdsthii others were transplanted to the Rhine, believinguuti passage in Ausoruus applies to them. (Ad Mo-*it 1. 5—8.) This may or may not be the case. Thefcwre important elements of the account are, that the•k** who were thus annex! and thus rebelled, arer*i»i Umignntrs—this being the name they take inGibbon, Their scene of action was the parts aboutthe pwent town of Peterwaradein, on the north hankf'f the Danulte, nearly opposite the Servian frontier,&ni in the district between the Theiss and the greatl*ftl of the Danube. Here lay the tract of the Sar-ma^f, ami Jazyjes Metanastae, a tract which never■a* Hunan, a tract which lay as a March or Boun­ dary, with Pannonia on one side and Dacia on theother, but belonging to neither. Observe the wordsin Italics. In his note, Gibbon draws special attention to"the broken and imperfect manner" in which the*' Gothic and Sarmatian wars are related." Shouldthis remark stimulate the inquiries of the histo­rian, he may observe that the name Limit/antes isnot found in the authority nearest the time, and ofthe most importance in the way of evidence, viz.Ammianus Marcellinus. Armnianus speaks only ofservt and domini; — " Sarmatao Uberi ad discretio-nem seroorum rebelHum appellati (xxix. 6. 15)." On the other hand, it is only in a work of suchinferior authority (at least, for an event a.d. 337)as the Chronicle of Jerome (Chrontcon Ifieronymi)that the name Limigans is found; the same workstating that the masters were called Arcaragantes.To say nothing about the extent to which thostory has a suspicious similarity to more than oneolder account of the expulsion of the masters by theslaves of the same sort, the utter absence of eithername in any other writer is remarkable. So is theirsemi-Latin form. Can the whole account of the slave insurrectionbe problematical — based upon a confusion of nameswhich will be shown to be highly probable? Let ushear in mind the locality of these Limigantes, andthe language of those parts in contact with it whichbelonged to Rome. The locality itself was a Limes(eminently so), and the contiguous tongue was aLingua Rust tea in which such a form as Limiganteswould be evolved. It is believed to be the Latinname of the Sarmatae and Jazyges of what may becalled the Daco-Pannonian March. The account of the Servile War is susceptible of asimilar explanation. Ammianus is nearly the last ofthe authors who uses the name Sarmatae, whichwill, ere long, be replaced, to a great extent, by thename Serv- (2«p§-). Early and late, this name hasalways suggested the idea of the Latin Servus,—justas its partial equivalent Slav- does of the EnglishSlave. It is submitted that these Servi of Am­mianus (Limiyantes of the Chronicle) are theServians {Servi) of the March (Limes), now begin­ning to be called by the name by which they desig­nated themselves rather than by the name by whichthey were designated by their neighbours. [R. G. L ]Ll'MITES ROMA'NI, sometimes simply Limesor Limites, is the name generally applied to the longline of fortifications constructed by the Romans as aprotection of their empire, or more directly of theDecumates agri, against the invasions of the Ger­mans. It extended along the Danube and the Rhine,and consisted of forts, ramparts, walls, and palisades.The course of these fortifications, which were firstcommenced by Drusus and Tiberius, can still botraced with tolerable accuracy, as very considerableportions still exist in a good state of preservation.Its whole length was about 350 English miles, be­tween Cologne and Ratisbon. It begins on theDanube, about 15 miles to the south-west of Ratis­bon, whence it proceeds in a north-western direc­tion under the name given to it in the middle agesof *' the Devil's Wall " (Teufeismauer), or Pfahlrain.For a distance of about 60 miles it was a real stonewall, which is still in a tolerable state of preserva­tion, and in some places still rises 4 or 5 feet abovethe ground; and at intervals of little more than amile, remnants of round towers are visible. Thiswall terminates at Pj'ahlhdm in Wiirtemberg. From