OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 229 all possibility of recovering the use of it, in the present life,may be convinced of the truth of the preceding observations, lethim attend to the following information derived from the phi­losophy of Pythagoras and Plato. There are three orders of fouls which are the perpetual at­tendants of the gods. The first of these orders angels compose;the second, dæmons; and the third, heroes. But as there is novacuum either in incorporeal or corporeal natur.-s, but on thecontrary profound union, it is necessary, in order to accomplishthis, that the last link of a superior order should coalesce with thesummit of one proximately inferior. Hence therefore, betweenessential heroes, who perpetually attend the gods, and are con­sequently impassive and pure, nnd the bulk of human souls whodescend with pasfivity and impurity, it is necessary there shouldbe an order of human souls, who descend with impassivity andpurity. These souls were called by the ancients with great pro­priety Heroes, on account of their high degree of proximity andalliance to such as are essentially Heroes. Hercules, Theseus, Py­thagoras, Plato, &c. were fouls of this kind, who descended intogeneration both to benefit other souls, and in compliance withthat necessity by which all natures inferior to the perpetual at­tendants of the gods are at times obliged to descend. The cha­racteristics of these heroic souls are, grandeur of action, elevation,and magnificence: and Plato in his Laws fays, that we ought toVenerate them, and perform funera! sacrifices in honour of theirmemory. They are too of an undefiled nature when comparedwith other human fouls, than whom they are likewise far moreintellectual. They have much of an elevated nature, and whichis properly liberated from an inclination to matter. Hence theyare easily led back to the intelligible world, in which they livefor many periods; while, on the contrary, the most irrational kindof fouls are either never led back, or this is accomplished withgreat difficulty, or continues for a very inconsiderable period oftime, (^3 - But