OCR Output B. II. YEAR I.—BEFORE CHRIST 431. 129 no less in any one article were the military provisions of theAthenians, when the Peloponnesians had formed the de­sign of invading them, and both sides began the war.—These, and such like arguments, was Pericles continuallyemploying, to convince them that they were well able tocarry on a successful war. The Athenians heard him with attention, and followedhis advice. They withdrew from the country their chil­dren, their wives, all tlie furniture of their houses there,pulling down with their own hands the timber of which theywere built. Their flocks and their labouring-cattle they sentover into Euboea and the adjacent islands. But this re­moval was a very grievous business to them, since it hadbeen the ancient custom of many of the Athenians to resideat large in the country. This method of living had been more habitual to theAthenians than to any other Greeks, from their first com­mencement as a people. From the time of Cecrops andtheir first series of kings down to Theseus, Attica had beeninhabited in several distinct towns, each of which had itsown Archons and its own Prytaneum*; and, unless intimes of danger, had seldom recourse to the regal authority,since justice was administered in every separate borough,and each had a council of its own. Sometimes they evenwarred against one another; for instance, the Eleusinians,when they sided with Kumolpus against Erectheus. Butwhen the regal power devolved upon Theseus, a man of anextensive understanding, and who knew how to govern, inseveral respects he improved the whole territory; and be­sides, dissolving all the councils and magistracies of thepetty boroughsf, he removed them to the metropolis, as itis at present, and constituting one grand Senate and Pryta­neum, made it the point of union in which all concentred. • That is—Magistrates of its own, and a common-hall, in which those,magistrates performed the duties of their office in administering justice,and offering sacrifices, and where they had their diet at the puhlic expence- t The number of the boroughs in Attica was one hundred seventy-four.