OCR Output 388 [book XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. when Cyrus read this, and admired the di­vine power, an earnest desire seized uponhim, to fulfil what was so written. So hecalled for the most eminent Jews that werein Babylon, and said that he gave them leaveto go back to their own country, and to re­build* their city Jerusalem and the templeof God, for that he would be their assistant;and that he would write to the rulers and fovernors that were in the neighbourhood ofudea, that they should contribute gold andsilver, for the building of the temple, and be­sides that, beasts for their sacrifices. When Cyrus had said this to the Israelites,the rulers of the two tribes of Judah and Ben­jamin, with the Levites and priests, went inhaste to Jerusalem. Yet did many of themstay at Babylon, as not willing to leave theirpossessions. And when they were come thi­ther, all the king's friends assisted them, andbrought in, for the building of the temple^some gold, and some silver, and some a greatmany cattle and horses. So they performedtheir vows to God: and offered the sacrificesthat had been accustomed of old time; I meanthis upon the rebuilding of their city, and therevival of the ancient practices relating totheir worship. Cyrus also sent back the ves­sels of God which king Nebuchadnezzar hadpillaged out of the temple, and had carried toBabylon.f So he committed these things toMithridates the treasurer, to be sent away;with an order to give them to Sanabasser,that he might keep them till the temple wasbuilt; and when it was finished, he mightdeliver them to the priests and rulers of themultitude, in order to their being restored tothe temple. Cyrus also sent the followingepistle to the governors that were in Syria: KING CYRUS TO SISINNES AND SATHRABUZANESSENDETH GREETING. I have given permission to as many of theJews in my country as please to return totheir own country, and to rebuild their city,and to build the temple of God at Jerusalem,on the same place where it was before. Ihave also sent my treasurer Mithridates, andZorobabel, the governor of the Jews, thatthey may lay the foundations of the temple,and may build it sixty cubits high, and ofthe same latitude: making three edifices ofpolished stones, and one of the wood of thecountry; and tbe same order extends to thealtar whereon they offer sacrifices to God. Irequire also that the expenses for these thingsbe given out of my revenues. I have alsosent the vessels which king Nebuchadnezzarpillaged out of the temple, and have giventhem to Mithridates the treasurer; and toZorobabel the governor of the Jews; thatthey may have them carried to Jerusalem,and may restore them to the temple of God.Now their Jnumber is as follows: fifty char­gers of gold, and five hundred of silver; fortyThericlean cups of gold and five hundred ofsilver; fifty basons of gold and five hundredof silver; thirty vessels for pouring the drink-offerings, and three hundred of silver; thirtyvials of gold, and two thousand four hundredof silver; with a thousand other vessels. Ipermit them to have the same honour whichthey were used to have from their forefathers,as also for their small cattle, and for wine,and oil, two hundred and five thousand andfive hundred drachmae; and for wheat flour,twenty thousand and five hundred artabae.And I give order that these expenses shall * This permission to build Jerusalem, and this epistleof Cyrus to Sisinnes and Sathrabuzanes, to the same pur­pose, are, most unfortunately, omitted in all our othercopies, but this best and completest copy of Josephus;and by such omission the famous prophecy of Isaiah, xliv.28. where we are informed, that God said of, or to Cyrus—He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure;even saying to Jerusalem, thou shalt be built; and to thetemple, thy foundation shall be laid: could not hithertobe demonstrated from the sacred history to have beencompletely fulfilled; I mean as to that part of it whichconcerned his giving a commission, for the rebuilding thecity Jerusalem, as distinct from the temple; whose re­building is^alone permitted or directed in the decree ofCyrus in all our copies. t Some are of opinion, that, among the eacred things which Cyrus ordered to be restored, the ark of the cove­nant was one; but it no where appears, that this ark wascarried from Jerusalem to Babylon. They tell us, in­deed, that in the second temple, sacrifices were offered,as in the first, and all solemn days observed, especiallythe great day of expiation, when the law ordained, thatthe blood should be sprinkled before the mercy-seat;and the mercy-seat, say they, was part of the ark: butbesides that the ark, without the Shechinah, or divineglory, (which was then withdrawn,) would have been ofno great significance, the Jews universally acknowledgedthat the ark was one of the five things that were wantingin the second temple. B. t Of the true number of golden and silver vessels, hereand elsewhere belonging to the temple of Solomon, seethe description of the temples, chap. 13.