OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 403 the more stubborn barbarians sacrificed a she-goat, or per­haps a captive, to the gods of their fathers.° The Lom­bards, and their confederates, were united by their com­mon attachment to a chief, who excelled in all the vir­tues and vices of a savage hero; and the vigilance of Al-boin provided an ample magazine of offensive and de­fensive arms for the use of the expedition. The portablewealth of the Lombards attended the march ; their landsthey cheerfully relinquished to the Avars, on the solemnpromise, which was made and accepted without a smile,that if they failed in the conquest of Italy, these voluntaryexiles should be reinstated in their former possessions. They might have failed, if Narses had been the anta- pisaffec-gonist of the Lombards; and the veteran warriors, the death ofassociates of his Gothic victory, would have encountered Nar*es-with reluctance an enemy whom they dreaded and es­teemed. But the weakness of the Byzantine court wassubservient to the barbarian cause; and it was for theruin of Italy, that the emperor once listened to the com­plaints of his subjects. The virtues of Narses werestained with avarice; and in his provincial reign of fif­teen years he accumulated a treasure of gold and silverwhich surpassed the modesty of a private fortune. Hisgovernment was oppressive or unpopular, and the gene­ral discontent was expressed with freedom by the depu­ties of Rome. Before the throne of Justin they boldlydeclared, that their Gothic servitude had been more to­lerable than the despotism of a Greek, eunuch ; and that,unless their tyrant were instantly removed, they wouldconsult their own happiness in the choice of a master.The apprehension of a revolt was urged by the voice ofenvy and detraction, which had so recently triumphedover the merits of Belisarius. A new exarch, Longinus,was appointed to supersede the conqueror of Italy; andthe base motives of his recall were revealed in the in- * Gregory the Roman (Dialog, lib. 3. c. 27,28. apud Baron. Annal. Ecoles. A. D.579. no. 10.) supposes that they likewise adored this she-goat. I know butbf onereligion in which the god and the victim are the same.