OCR Output 450 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. a reminiscence ;* even the Latin titles are replaced byGreek. The same distinction shows itself in the artistictreatment. First of all the players receive back their appro­priate masks, and greater care is observed as to the scenicarrangements, so that it is no longer the case, as withPlautus, that everything needs to be done on the street,whether belonging to it or not. Plautus ties and unties thedramatic knot carelessly and loosely, but his plot is drolland often striking; Terence, far less effective, keeps every­where account of probability, not unfrequently at the costof suspense, and wages emphatic war against the certainlysomewhat flat and insipid standing expedients of his prede­cessors, e.g., against allegoric dreams.f Plautus paints hischaracters with broad strokes, often as if after a pattern,always with a view to the more distant and gross generaleffect; Terence handles the psychological development witha careful and often excellent miniature-painting, as in theAdelphi for instance, where the two old men—the easybachelor enjoying life in town, and the sadly harassed notat all refined country-landlord—form a masterly contrast.The springs of action and the language of Plautus are drawnfrom the tavern, those of Terence from the household of thegood citizen. The lazy Plautine hostelry, the very uncon­strained but very charming damsels with the hosts duly cor­responding, the sabre-rattling troopers, the slave-worldpainted with an altogether peculiar humour, whose heavenis the cellar and whose fate is the lash, have disappeared inTerence or at any rate undergone improvement. In Plautuswe find ourselves, on the whole, among incipient or thorough * Perhaps the only exception is in the Andria (iv. 5) the answer to thequestion how matters go :— 'SicUt quimus', aiunt, 'quando ut volumus rum licet,' in allusion to the line of Cuxilius, which is, indeed, also imitated from aGreek proverb :—. Vivas ut possis, quando non quis ut velis. The comedy is the oldest of Terence's, and was exhibited by the theatricalauthorities on the i ecommeud.itiou of Csecilius. The gentle expression ofgratitude is characteristic. .(. A counterpart to the hind chased by dogs and with tears calling on ayoung man for help, which Terence ridicules [Phorm. prol. 4), may be recog­nized in the far from ingenious Plautine allegory of the goat and the ape(Merc. ii. I). Such excrescences are ultimately traceable to the rhetoric ofEuripides (e. g. Eurip. Hec. 90).