OCR Output aN. 1058.] 263 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Now it happened that Abraham* came andoffered his eon Isaac for a burnt-offering atthat very place; and, when the youth wasready to have his throat cut, a ram appearedon a sudden, standing by the altar, whichAbraham sacrificed in the stead of his son,as we have before related. Now when kingDavid saw that God had heard his prayer,and had graciously accepted of his sacrifice,he resolved to call that place the altar of allthe people; and to build a temple to Godthere. Which words he uttered very appo­sitely to what was to be done afterward; forGod sent the prophet to him, and told him,that there should his son build him an altar. CHAP. XIV. OF THE GREAT PREPARATIONS MADE BY DAVID FOR THEHOUSE OF GOD, AND HIS APPOINTMENT OF SOLOMON TOREIGN, UPON ADONIJAH'S ATTEMPT TO OAIN THE KINGDOM. AFTER the delivery of this prophecyfthe king commanded the strangers tobe numbered; and they were found to be onehundred and eighty thousand. Of these heappointed eighty thousand to be hewers ofstone, and the rest of the multitude to carrystones; and of them he set over the workmenthree thousand and Jfive hundred. He alsoprepared a great quantity of iron and brassfor the work, with many large cedar trees;the Tyrians and Sidonians sending them tohim; for he had sent to them for a supply ofthose trees. And told his friends, that thesethings were now prepared, that he mightleave materials ready for the building of thetemple to his son, who was to reign afterhim; and that he might not have them toseek then, when he was very young, and byreason of his age unskilful in those matters;but might have them lying by him, and somight the more readily complete the work. So David called his son Solomon, andcharged him, when he had received thekingdom.j| to build a temple to God: andsaid, "I was willing to build God a templemyself; but he prohibited me, because I waspolluted with blood and wars; but he hathforetold that Solomon, my youngest son,should build him a temple, and should becalled by that name. Over whom he hathpromised to take the like care, as a fathertakes over his son; and that he would makethe country of the Hebrews happy under him,and that not only in other respects, but bygiving it peace, and freedom from wars, andfrom internal seditions, which are the greatestof all blessings. Since therefore, thou wastordained king by God himself before thouwast born; endeavour to render thyselfworthy of this his providence; as is in otherinstances so particularly in being religiousand courageous. Keep thou also his com­mands, and his laws, which he hath given usby Moses; and do not permit others to breakthem. Be zealous also to dedicate to God atemple, which he hath chosen to be builtunder thy reign. Nor be thou affrighted bythe vastness of the work; nor set about ittimorously. For I will make all things readybefore I die. And take notice, that thereare already §ten thousand talents of gold,and a hundred talents of silver collectedtogether. I have also laid together brassand iron without number; and an immensequantity of timber, and of stones. Moreoverthou hast many thousand stone-cutters andcarpenters. And if thou shalt want any thingfarther, do thou add somewhat of thine own.Wherefore if thou performest this work, thouwilt be acceptable to God, and have him forthy patron." David also farther exhorted therulers of the people to assist his son in thisbuilding, and to attend to the divine service, * What Josephus adds here, whether from his copy of2 Sam. xxiv. 25. or of 1 Chron. xxvi. 26—30. or fromother places belonging to David's history, of which alreadyVII. 4. is very remarkable; that this mount Moriah wasnot only the very place where Abraham offered up histon Isaac long ago, but that God had foretold to David by aprophet that here his son should build him a temple, whichis not directly in any of our other copies; though veryagreeable to what was in them; particularly in 1 Chron.xxi. 26, 28. and xxii. 1. to which place I refer the reader.t About an. 1057. Three hundred, 1 Kings v. 16. This power of naming a successor was here assumed by David, and for some time afterwards, (as it appears bythe story of his grandson Rehoboam,) was continued inthe Jewish state. It was a privilege that, in after-ages,was granted to several good princes; but among the Israel­ites it did not prevail long, because the constitution ofother nations, (to which the Israelites affected to conformthemselves,) was different. Pool's Annotations, and Pat­rick's Commentary. B. § Of the quantity of gold and silver expended in thebuilding of Solomon's temple, and whence it arose, see thedescription of the temples, chap. 13. And of the distinctparts of that temple, see the other chapters of that descrip­tion thereto belonging.