OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. empire can seldom be influenced by any personal consi-derations. Virtue, or even reason, will suggest to hisimpartial mind, that he is the guardian of peace andequity, and that the interest of society is inseparablyconnected with his own. Under the weakest and mostvicious reign, the seat of justice was filled by the wisdomand integrity of Papinian and Ulpian;" and the purestmaterials of the Code and Pandects are inscribed withthe names of Caracalla and his ministers." The tyrantof Rome was sometimes the benefactor of the provinces.A dagger terminated the crimes of Domitian; but theprudence of Nervaconfirmed his acts, which, in the joyof their deliverance, had been rescinded by an indignantsenate/ Yet in the rescripts? replies to the consultations.1of the magistrates, the wisest of princes might be deceiv­ed by a partial exposition of the case. And this abuse,which placed their hasty decisions on the same level withmature and deliberate acts of legislation, was ineffectu­ally condemned by the sense and example of Trajan.The rescripts of the emperor, his grants and decrees, hisedicts and pragmatic sanctions, were subscribed in pur­ple ink,» and transmitted to the provinces as general orspecial laws, which the magistrates were bound to exe­cute, and the people to obey. But as their numbercontinually multiplied, the rule of obedience becameeach day more doubtful and obscure, till the will ofthe sovereign was fixed and ascertained in the Grego- u There is more envy than reason in the complaint of Macrinns, (Jul. Capitolin.e. 13.)—Nefas esse leges videri Coinmodi et Caracalke et hoininum imperitorunivoluntates. Comraodas was made a Divas by Severus. (Dodwell, Prelect. 8. p. 324,325.) Yet he occars only twice in the Pandects. z Of Antonius Caracalla alone two hundred constitutions are extant in the Code, andwith his father one hnndred and sixty. These two princes are quoted fifty times inthe Pandects and eight in the Institutes. (Terasson, p. 265.) > Plin Secund, Episiol. 10.66. Sueton. in Domitian. c. 23. * It was a maxim of Constantino, contra jus rescripta non raleant, (Cod. Tlieodos.lib. 1. tit. 2. leg. 1.) The emperors reluctantly allow some scrutiny into the law andthe fact, some delay, petition, &o. *, but these iosnfficent remedies are too much in Iliadiscretion and at the peril of the judge. a A compound of vermilion and cinnabar, which marks the imperial diplomas fromLeo I. (A.D.470.) to the fall of the Greek empire. (Bityliotheque Raisunnuede la Di­plomatique, lum. 1. p.509—514. Laini,de Eruditionc Apostoloruni, tow. 2. p.72Q