OCR Output 82 ROMAN EMPIRE. was received and dismissed with honour; but when h«accused the heresy and treason of the Egyptians, thenegro convert was instructed to reply that he wouldnever abandon his brethren, the true believers, to the per­secuting ministers of the synod of Chalcedon.p Duringseveral ages, the bishops of Nubia were named andconsecrated by the Jacobite patriarch of Alexandria: aslate as the twelfth century, Christianity prevailed; andsome rites, some ruins, are still visible in the savagetowns of Sennaar and Dongola.q But the Nubians atlength executed their threats of returning to the worshipof idols; the climate required the indulgence of poly­gamy, and they have finally preferred the triumph ofthe Koran to the abasement of the cross. A metaphy­sical religion may appear too refined for the capacityof the negro race: yet a black or a parrot might betaught to repeat the wards of the Chalcedon or Mono-physite creed. Church of Christianity was more deeply rooted in thejftTsso'Abyssinian empire; and, although the corre-**• spondence has been sometimes interrupted aboveseventy or a hundred years, the mother-church of Alex­andria retains her colony in a state of perpetual pupil­age. Seven bishops once composed the./Ethiopic synod:had their number amounted to ten, they might haveelected an independent primate; and one of their kingswas ambitious of promoting his brother to the eeclest-astical throne. But the event was foreseen, the increasewas denied; the episcopal office has been graduallyconfined to the abuna' the head and author of the Abys- P Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 1. p. 329. i The Christianity of the Nubians, A. D. 1153, it attested by the slicrif at K.drisi,falsely described under the name of the Nubian geographer, (p. 18.) who repre­sents them as a nation of Jacobites. The rays of historical light that twinkle inthe history of Renaudot, (p. 178. 220. 224. 281. 286. 405. 434.451. 464.) are allprevious to this era. See the modern state in the Lettres Edificantes, (Recueil 4.)and Busching. (torn. 9. p. 152—159. par Berenger.) 'The abuna is improperly dignified by the Latins with the title of patriarch.The Abyssinians acknowledge only the four patriarchs, and their chief is no morethan a metropolitan, or national primate. (Ludolph. Hint. tEthiopic. et Comment,lib. 3. c. 7.) The seven bishops of Renaudot, (p. 511.) who existed A. D. 118!,are unknown to the historian.