OCR Output 426 WARS or THE JEWS. v Book 1L and marched to Antipatris. And when he was informed thatthere was a great body of Jewish forces gotten together in a cer­tain tower called sJpbet:, he sent a party before to fight them;but this party dispersed the Jews by affrighting them before itcame to a battle: so they came, and finding their camp deserted,they burnt it, as well as the villages that lay about it. But whenCestius had marched from Antipatris to Lydda, he found thecity empty of its men, for the * whole multitude were gone upto Jerusalem to the feast of tabernacles; yet did he destroy fiftyof those that shewed themselves, and burnt the city, and somarched forwards; and ascending by Bethoron, he pitched hiscamp at a certain place called Ga&io, fifty furlongs distant fromJerusalem. 2. But as for the Jews, when they saw the war approachingto their metropolis, they left the feast, and betook themselves totheir arms; and taking courage greatly from their multitude,went in a sudden and disorderly manner to the fight, with a greatnoise, and without any consideration had of the rest of the seventhday, although the Sabbath was the day to which they had the,greatest regard; but that rage which made them forget the reli.gious observation [of the Sabbath] made them too hard for theirenemies in the fight: with such violence therefore did they fallupon the Romans, as to break into their ranks, and to marchthrough the midst of them, making a great slaughter as theywent, insomuch, that unless the horsemen, and such part of thefootmen as were not yet tired in the action, had wheeled round,and succoured that part of the army which was not yet broken,Cestius, with his whole army, had been in danger: however,five hundred and fifteen of the Romans were slain, of whichnumber four hundred were footmen, and the rest horsemen,while the Jews lost only twenty-two, of whom the most valiant were * Here we have in eminent example of that Jewish language, which Dr Walltruly observes we several times find used in the sacred writings; I mean where thewords all or -whole multitude, &c. are used for much the greatest part only; but notso as to include every person, without exception; for when Josephus had said, thatthe -whole multitude [all the males] of Lydda were gone to the feast of tabernacles,he immediately adds, that however no fewer than fifty of them appeared, andwere slain by the Romans. Other examples somewhat like this I have observedelsewhere in Josephus, but, as I think, npne so remarkable as this. See Wall'sCritical Obiervations on the Old Testament, pag. 49.-jo. We have also in this and the next section, two eminent facts to be observed, viz.the first example, that I remember in Josephus, of the onset of the Jews' enemiesupon their country when their males were gone up to Jerusalem to one of theirthree sacred festivals; which, daring the theocracy, God had promised to preservethem from, Exod. xxxiv. 24. The second fact is this, the breach of the Sabbathby the seditious Jews in an offensive fight, contrary to the universal doctrine andpractice of their nation in these ages, and even contrary to what they themselvesafterward practised in the rest of this war. See the aote on Antiq. B. XVI. ch.3. § 4. vol. H.