OCR Output 42 INATUS. IMEUS MONS. wondiip of the Cabeiri and Hermes whom the Ca-rians called Imbrasus, (Steph. B. v. "lfiGpos.)Both the island and the city of Imbros are mentionedby Homer, who gives to the former the epithet of7ranraAofV/T7j. (//. xii'i. 33, xir.281, xxiv. 78, Hymn,in Apoll. 36.) The island was annexed to the Per­sian empire by Otanes, a general of Dareius, atwhich time it was still inhabited by Pelasgians.(Herod, v. 26.) It was afterwards colonised by theAthenians, and was no doubt taken by Miltiadesalong with Lemnos. It was always regarded inlater times as an ancient Athenian possession: thusthe peace of Antalcidas, which declared the inde­pendence of nil the Grecian states, nevertheless al­lowed the Athenians to retain possession of Lemnos,Imbros, and Scyros (Xen. Hell, iv, 8. § 15. v. 1. §31); and at the end of the war with Philip the Ro­mans restored to the same people the islands ofLemnos, Imbros, Delos, and Scyros. (Liv. xxxiii.30.) The coins of Imbros have the common Athe­nian emblem, the head of Pallas. Imbros seems tohave afforded good anchorage. The fleet of An-tiochus first sailed to Imbros. and from thencecrossed over to Sciathus. (Liv. xxxv. 43.) Theship which carried Ovid into exile also anchored inthe harbour of Imbros, which the poet calls '* Imbri.i COIN OF IMIIKOS. tcllus." (Ov. Trist. i. 10, 18.) The island is stillcalled by its ancient name, Emhro or Iiumt. IMEUS MONS, is the name given in the TabulaPeutingeriana to the mountain pass which leadsfrom the basin of the lake Fucinus to that of thePeligni. and was traversed by the Via Valeria onthe way from Alba to Corfinium. Tins pass, nowcalled the Forcn Carruso, must in all ages havebeen an important line of communication, being anatural saddle-like depression in the ridge whichItounds the lake Kuchma on the E., so that theascent from Colt Armtno (Ceifennia) to the sum­mit of the pass (a distance of 5 miles) prevents butlittle difficulty. The latter is the highest pointreached by the line of the Valerian Way in traversingthe whole breadth of Italy from one sea to the other,but is elevated only a few hundred feet above thelake Fucinus. The Human road acro>s this pa»swas first rendered practicable for carriages by theemperor Claudius, who continued the Via Valeriafrom Cerfennin to the mouth of the Aternus. [Cer-FENNIA.] {Tab, PeuL; Holsten. Not. ml Our.p. 154; Kramer,FucinerSee, pp.14,60.) [E.H.B.] 1MMADKUS or IMMADHA, a position on thecoast of Gallia Narbonensis between Telo (Toulon)and Massilia. The distances along the coast weredoubtless accurately measured, but we cannot be cer­tain that they are accurately given in theMSS.; and itseems that the routes, especially in the parts near thecoast, have been sometimes confounded. Immadrns,the next station east of Marseille, is placed byD'Anville, and others who follow him. at the J,*le f/e Maire; but the numbers will not agree. Thereal distance is much less than xii. M. P., which isthe distance in the Itin.; and D'Anville, applying hisusual remedy, alters it to vii. But Walckenaer wellobjects to fixing on a little island or rock as the po­sition of Emmadrus, and then charging the Itinerarywith being wrong. lie finds the distance from alittle bay west of Cap Morgum to Marseille toagree with the Itin. measure of 12 M. P. [G. L-]IMMUNDUS SINUS (cucatfapros k6\tos. Strab.xvii. p. 770; Diod. iii. 39; Ptol. iv. 5. § 7; Phiuvi. 29. s. 33), the modern Foul Bay, in lat. 22°derived its apjvliation from the badness of its an­chorage, and the difficulty of navigating vesselsamong its numerous reefs and breakers. In itsfurthest western recess lay the city of Berenice,founded, or rather enlarged, by Ptolemy Philadelphia,and so named by him in honour of his mother, thewidow of Ptolemy Soter; and op|>osite its mouth wasthe island Ophiodes, famous alike for the reptileswhich infested it, and its quarries of tojiaz. Thelatter was much employed by Aegyptiun artisans forornamenting rings, scarabaei, &c, etc. ritERE-sick.]" [W. B^ I>.] IMUS PYRENAEUS, a station in Aqiiitania, atthe northern base of the Pyrenees, on the road fromAquae Tarbellicae (/)as) to Poinpelnn (Panij*l<ma)in Spain. linns Pyrenaeus is between Carasa((tarts) and the Sumums Pyrenaeus. The SmnmwiPyrenaeus is the Summit dt Castel-Pimm; and theImus Pyrenaeus is St. Jettn-Pietl-de-Ptrrtj "at thefool of the pass." The distance in the Itin. betweenSummus Pyrenaeus and Imus Pyrenaeus is v„which D'Anville would alter to x., to tit the real dis­tance. Walckenaer takes the measure to be (iallicleagues, and therefore tlie v. will be equivalent to7J M. P. [G.L.] INA Clfa, Ptol.; Etk. Inensis), a town of Sicily,the position of which is wholly unknown, except thatPtolemy reckons it among the inland towns in thesouth of the island. (Ptol. iii. 4. § 15.) That authoris the only one of the geographers that mentions it,and the name has been thought Corrupt; but it issupported by the best MSS. of Ptolemy, and thereading "Inenscs" is equally well supported inCicero (IVrr. iii. 43), where the old editions had"Ennenses." (Zumpt, ad foe.) The orator appear*to rank them among the minor communities of theisland which had been utterly ruined bv the exactionsof Verres * [E. U.K.] INACHO'RUTM Qlvaxupiov, Ptol. iii. 17. § 2),a city of Crete, which, from the similarity of sound,Mr. Pushlcy ( liar. vol. ii. p. 78) is inclined to be-lieve was s-ituntod in the modern district of Ennt>i-Uioria, on the \V. coast of Ciete. (Hilck, A'rWa,vol. i. p. 379.) [K. Ii. J.] I'XACHL'S ClvaX°*)- !• A river of the Argei*.[ Argos, p. 200, b.] 2. A river in the territory of Argos Amphilochi-cum. [Argos AMriiiUK:ii., p. 208, b.]INAMME. [Aenaria.]I'NATUS ("IraTo?, Ptol. iii. 17. § 2), a city ofCrete, the same, no doubt, as Einatus (*Etvaros,Steph. B.; Hesych. Etyrn. Afaffn. s. r.), situated ona mountain and river of the same name. Tlie lVo-tinger Table puts a place called Inata on a river 24M. P. E. of Lisia, and 32 M. P. W. of Hicrapytna.These distances agree well with the three or fourhamlets known by the name Kasteliatui, derivedfrom the Venetian foitress. Castle Belvedere, situ­ated on a hill a little to the N. of the villages. The