OCR Output AN. 31.] 551 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. treat, and that Herod had given no occasionto suspect that he was displeased at him,but put this question to Hyrcanus, Whetherhe had received any letters from Malchus?and when he answered, that he had receivedletters, but those of salutation only; andwhen he asked farther, whether he had notreceived any presents from him? and whenhe replied, that he had received no morethan four horses to ride on, which Malchushad sent him, Herod charged these uponhim as the crimes of bribery and treason;and gave order that he should be led awayand slain. And in order to demonstrate thathe had been guilty of no offence, when hewas thus brought to his end, they allege, howmild his temper had been; and, that even inhis youth, he had never given any demon­stration of boldness or rashness; and that thecase was the same when he came to be king:but that he even then committed the manage­ment of the greatest part of public affairs toAntipater. And that he was now aboveeighty years old; and knew that Herod'sgovernment was in a secure state. He alsocame over Euphrates, and left those whogreatly honoured him beyond that river;though he were to be entirely under Herod'sgovernment; and that it was a most incredi­ble thing that he should undertake any thingby way of innovation, and not at all agree­able to his temper: but that this was a plotof Herod's own contrivance.* And this was the fate of Hyrcanus, afterhe had endured various turns of fortune inhis life-time. For he was made high-priestof the Jewish nation in the beginning of hismother Alexandra's reign; who held the go­vernment nine years. And when after hismother's death, he took the kingdom him­self, and held it three months, he lost it, bythe means of his brother Aristobulus. Hewas then restored by Pompey, and receivedall sorts of honour from him, and enjoyedthem forty years. But when he was againdeprived by Antigonus, and was maimed inhis body, he was made a captive by the Par- thians; and thence returned home againafter some time, on account of the hopesthat Herod had given him. None of these,however, came to pass according to his ex­pectation; but he still conflicted with manymisfortunes through the whole course of hislife: and, what was the heaviest calamity ofall, as we have related already, he came toan end which was undeserved by him. Hischaracter appeared to be that of a man of amild and moderate disposition; and sufferedthe administration of affairs to be generallydone by others under him. He was averseto the management of public affairs, nor hadshrewdness enough to govern a kingdom.And both Antipater and Herod came to theirgreatness by reason of his mildness; andat last he met with such an end from them,as was not agreeable either to justice orpiety. Now Herod, as soon as he had put Hyr­canus out of the way, hastened to Caesar:and because he could not have any hopes ofkindness from him on account of the friend­ship he had for Antony, he had a suspicionof Alexandra, lest she should take this op­portunity to bring the multitude to a revolt;and introduce a sedition into the affairs ofthe kingdom. So he committed the care ofevery thing to his brother Pheroras; andplaced his mother Cypros, and his sister Sa­lome, and the whole family at Massada: andgave him a charge, that if he should hearany sad news about him, he should take careof the government. But as to Mariamne hiswife, because of the misunderstanding be­tween her and her sister, and his sister'smother, which made it impossible for themto live together, he placed her at Alexan-drium, with Alexandra her mother: and lefthis treasurer Joseph, and Sohemus of Ituria,to take care of that fortress. These twohad been very faithful to him from the be­ginning; and were now left as a guard to thewomen. They also had it in charge, that ifthey should hear any mischief had befallenhim, they should kill them both: and, as far * As Hyrcanus was the only remaining person of themale line of the Asmoneans, and had himself reignedin Judea under the protection of the Romans, till deposedby the Parthians; Herod suspected, that if any thingwent hard with him, it would turn in favour of Hyrcanus,for restoring him again to the kingdom: and therefore, to prevent this, contrived a plot against that prince: as ifhe had held a correspondence with Malchus, king ofArabia, for the accomplishing of treasonable designsagainst him. Under this pretence, he caused him to beput to death, after he had passed the eightieth year of hisage. Prideaux,s Connection, part 2. book 8. B.