OCR Output OF THE K.OMANT EMPIRE. 89 vinee mankind, that these princes were as cold to the chap.endearments of conjugal affection, as they were in- xv,sensible to the ties of consanguinity, and the movingentreaties of youth and innocence. Of so numerousa family, Gallus and Julian alone, the two youngestchildren of Julius Constantius, were saved from thehands of the assassins, till their rage, satiated withslaughter, had in some measure subsided. The em­peror Constantius, who, in the absence of his bro­thers, was the most obnoxious to guilt and reproach,discovered, on .some future occasions, a faint andtransient remorse for those cruelties which the per­fidious counsels of his ministers, and the irresistibleviolence of the troops, had extorted from his unex­perienced youth *. The massacre of the Flavian race was succeeded by Division ofa new division of the provinces; which was ratified A?rA337?in a personal interview of the three brothers. Con- Sept. 1 !*stantine, the eldest of the Caesars, obtained with acertain pre-eminence of rank, the possession of thenew capital, which bore his own name and that of hisfather. Thrace and the countries of the east, wereallotted for the patrimony of Constantius; and Con-stans was acknowledged as the lawful sovereign ofItaly, Africa, and the western Illyricum. The armiessubmitted to their hereditary right; and they con­descended, after some delay, to accept from the Ro­man senate the title of Augustus. When they firstassumed the reins of government, the eldest of theseprinces was twenty-one, the second twenty, and thethird only seventeen, years of age. While the martial nations of Europe followed the Sapor Hng x of Persia, A. D.310, * Julian (ad S. P. Q. Athen. p. 270.) charges his cousin Constantius withthe whole guilt of a massacre, from which he himself so narrowly escaped. Hisassertion is confirmed by Athanasius, who, for reasons of a very different nature,was not less an enemy of Constantius (torn. i. p. 856.). Zosimus joins in thesame accusation. But the three abbreviators, Eutropius and the Victors, usevery qualifying expressions; "sinente potius quam jubente;" "incertum quo"suasore;" "vi militum."