OCR Output O F R O M E. 235 unattended by the troops. In the following year, BOOKthe law of Te.rentillus, fupported by the coneyr.. l J1^ _,rence of the whole college of tribunes, again af- Y.R. 193.failed the confuls. Thefe were Publius Volumnius B.C. 459.and Servius Sulpicius. In that year, the iky ap­peared on fire, and a violent earthquake happened.That an ox fpoke, an incident to which in the laftyear credit had been refufed, was now believed.Among other prodigies, a mower of flefh fell,which, as was reported, was in a great meafure in­tercepted in its fall, by a vaft number of birds flyingabout the place, and what efcaped them, lay fcatter-ed on the ground for feveral days, without beingchanged in fmell. The books * were confulted bythe Duumviri prefiding over facred rites, and it waspredicted that dangers impended from a concourfeof foreigners; that an attack was to be made on thehigher parts of the city, and lives loft in confe-quence; among other things, warning was given,that all feditious practices mould be avoided. Thisthe tribunes cried out againft, as a forgery, contrivedfor the purpofe of hindering the puffing of their law;and matters were tending to a defperate conteft;when, lo! that things might revolve in the fame »circle every year, the Hernicians brought an ac­count, that the Volfcians and ./Equans, notwith-ftanding the diminution of ftrength which they had * Thefe were the famous fibylline books, purchafed, it wa' faid, byTarquinius Superbus, hum an old wumxn whom nobody knew, andwho was never afterwards Teen again. Thefe hooks, which were fup.pofed to contain prophetic information of the fate and fortune of theRoman itate, were carefully repofited in a flone elicit, in a vault underthe Capitol, and two officers chofen from the order of patricians, calledduunviri facroru*i, appointed to take care of ihem. The number of thefewas afterwards increafed to tea, half of whom were plebeians; thento fifteen, upon which occafion they were called Quindeccmviri; whichname they retamed when afterwards augmented to fixty. Upon occa.lior.s of extreme danger, of pcftilence, or the appearance of any extra­ordinary prodigies, thefe officers were ordered by the fenate to confult,or to pretend to confult, the books, and they reported what expia­tions, and othtr rites were ncctiTary to avert the impending evil. fuffered,