OCR Output TARTESSUS. TARUSCONIENSES. 1107 ii it like dinner the word Tartessns, and its deriva-n adjectives, are employed by Latin writers as sy-eatbmoi with the West (Ovid,Afef. xiv.416; SiLiL nL 399; Claud. £)>wf. iii. v. 14). Tarshish;«irs in Scripture as a celebrated emporium, rich.r n, lit}, lead, silver, and other commodities; and * Phoenicians are represented as sailing thither inrje ahipg (F.xek. xxvii. 12, xxviii 13; Jerem.x.). Iniah speaks of it as one of the finest coloniesTyre, ami describes the Tyrians as bringing itsilnrta to their market (xxiii. 1, 6, 10). Among U i? writers the antiquity of Tartessus is indicatedr the myths connected with it (Strab. iii. p. 149;aim, iliv. 4). Hut the name is used by them a rery loose and indefinite way. Sometimes itUkii rW Um whole of Spain, and the Tagus is re­routed a* belonging to it (Rutilius, Itin. i. 356;rut. n Bt^n.1 101; Sil. Ital. xiii. 674, &c).U in general it appears, either as the name of then fUttu, or of a town situated near its mouth, or;rKy of the country south of the middle and loweram of the Baetis, which, in the time of Straho,a inhabited by the Turdnli. The Buetis is called.tfxfas by Susi chorus, quoted by Strabo (iii. p.") and by Aviennj (Ora MariL i. 224), a* wellthe town situated between two of its mouths ; and«<(«rf Herod, iv. 152) is of opinion that the mo-■a town of S. Lucar de Baraineda stands on itsThe country near the lower cuur.se of thefUi was called Tartessis or Tartesia, either from1 river or from the town; and this district, asi m otber> in Spain, was occupied by PhoeniciantJements, which in Strabos time, and even later,■erred their national customs. (Strab iii. p. 149,*.p-83t; Arr. Exp. Alex. ii. 16; App. IIUp.C "est. PorphyTOg. de Them. i. p. 107, ed. Bonn.)iw was a temple of Hercules, the Phoenician if.h, at Tartc&sus, whote worship was alsor*J amongst the neighbouring Iberians. (Arr. I.e.)>il the middle of the seventh century n. c. someii« sailors were driven thither by stress ofdiet; and this is the first account we have of iotercottne of the Greeks with this distantenician colony (Herod, iv. 152). About a cen-f later, some Greeks from Phoeaea likewise! ;:, and f'<nned an alliance with Arganthonius,; of the Tartessians, renowned in antiquity for pvat age which he attained. (Herod, i. 163;Li ui p. 151.) These connections and the vastTierce of Tartessus, raised it to a great pitch oftyritj. It traded not only with the motheritrt, but also with Africa and the distant Cas-and bartered the manufactures of PhoeniciaELe productions of these countries (Strab. L p. 33;•L rv. 196; cf. Heeren, Ideen, i. 2. §§ 2, 3).riches and prosperity had become proverbial, andthem alluded to in the verses of Anacreon Stan. iii. p. 151). The neighbouring seartnm Tarteaaiara, Avien. Or. Mar. 64) yielded k-nprey, one of the delicacies of the Roman * (Oell. vii. 16); and on a coin of Tartessns arewuted a fish and an ear of grain (Mionnet, Med.'. i p. 36)i We are unacquainted with the cir-••taoces which led to the fall of Tartessns ; but*j prohaUy have been by the hand of Hamilcar,< Vtbaginian general. It must at all events have r**rd at an railv perioil, since Strabo (iii. pp.. 1MX Pliny (iii 1, iv. 22, vii. 48), Mela (ii. 6),*jt {Wat Fr. ii.). and others, confounded it withe nrccnt Phoenician colonies, or took its name to aaaen: appellation of them. [T. H. D.] TARUALTAE (TopoikATcu, PtoL iv. 6. § 19),a people of Libya Interior. [T. H.D.] TARVEDUM. [Orcas.] TARUENNA or TARUANNA (TooooWo,PtoL iL 9. § 8), a town in North Gallia, andaccording to Ptolemy an inland town of the Morini.[Mokini.] It is written Teruanna in the Table,where it is marked a capital town, and the modernname is Terouenne. It is mentioned in severalRoman routes. The distance between Gesoriacum(Boulogne) in the Antonine Itin. and Taruenna doesnot agree with the true distance; nor does the dis­tance in the same Itin. between Taruenna and Cas­te! lum (Cassel) agree with the actual measurement.In both instances we must assume that there is anerror in the numerals of the Itin. D'Anville saysthat the Roman road appears to exist betweenTerouenne and the commencement of the BouUnoie,or district of Boulogne, near Deere, where it passesby a place culled La Chaussee. There are also saidto be traces of a Roman road from Itius Portus(Wissant) to Terouenne. [G. L.] TAKVESEDE (/t Ant. p. 279) or TARVES-SEDO, according to the Peuting. Table, was a placein Rliaetia on the road from Mediolunum leading byComum to Augusta Vindelicorum. Its exact site isnow unknown, though it seems to have been situatednear Torre di Vercelh. [L. S.] TARYI'SIUM (J*p€l<nov: Fth. Tarvisianus:Trerwo), a town of Northern Italy, in the provinceof Venetia, situated on the left bank of the riverSi lis (Stlt), about 15 miles from its mouth. Thename is not mentioned by any of tho geographers,though Pliny speaks of the Silis as Bowing ** exmontibus Tarvisanis," in a manner that would leadus to suppose it to have been a municipal town(Plin. iii. 18. s. 22), and this is confirmed by aninscription given by Muratori (Inscr. p. 328).After the fall of the Western Empire it appears as aconsiderable city, and is repeatedly noticed by Pro-copius during the Gothic Wars, as well as by Cassio-dorus and Paulus IHaconus. (Cassiod. Var. x. 27;Procop. B. G. ii. 29, iii. 1, 2; P. Diac. Hut. Lang. ii. 12, iv. 3, v. 28, &c) It retained this considera­tion throughout the middle ages, and is still a flou­rishing city under the name of Treviso. [E. IL B.] TARLiS (7Yrro), a river of Gallia Cispadana,one of the southern tributaries of the Pod us, whichcrosses the Aemilian Way between 5 and 6 mileswest of Parma. (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20; Geogr. Rav.iv. 36.) [E. H. B.] TARUSATES are mentioned by Caesar (B. G. iii. 27) among the Aquitanian peoples who sub­mitted to P. Crassus: "Vocates, Tarusates, Elu-sates." After Crassus had defeated the Sotiatoa[Sotiates] he entered the territory of the Vocates,and Tarusates, a statement which gives some indi­cation of their position. Pliny (iv. 19) places theTarusates between the Succa^scs and Basubocates;but the MSS. reuding in Pliny seems to be Latu-sates, which probably should be Tarusates, Thereappears to be no variation in the name in the MSS.of Caesar. D'Anville conjectures that the nameTarusates is preserved in Tursan, or Tew$un, apart of the diocese of Ave. The town of Aire ison the Aturis (Adour). [G. L.] TARUSCONIENSES, as the name stands inHarduin's edition of Pliny (iv. 4), but the read*ing is doubtful. Harduin found Taracunonienscs infive MSS., and there are other variations. BesiJeaTarascon on the Rhone, there is Tamtam on tl.e 4 B 2