OCR Output 89t» ROMA. ROMA. tend to confirm them. Appian (B. C. iii. 41)mentions a temple of Mars 15 stadia distant fromthe city, which would answer pretty nearly to thedistance of between 1 and 2 miles given in theinscription quoted. Ovid says {Fast. vi. 191): — u Lux eadem Marti festa est; quern prospicitextra Appositum tectae Porta Capena viae." The word prospicit denotes a long view; and asthe temple of Mars stood on a hill, as is evident fromthe Clivus Mart is, it might easily be visible at thedistance of a mile or two. The words of Statius(" qua primum Daaeitur," &c.) must be corrupt,being both tautological and contrary to fact. Thepaving of the road from the Porta Capena to thetemple would not have been worth twice recordingby Livy, had it lain or.iy at a distance of some.100 yards (x. '23, xxxviii. 28). The only way inwhich Becker can escape from the legitimate con­clusion is by assuming two temples of Mars in thisquarter; in which few, we suspect, will be inclinedto follow him, and which may be regarded as equi­valent to a confession of defeat. (Becker, Handb.p. 511, seq.; Antn\ p. 63. seq.; Urlichs, Rom. To~poijr. p. 105, seq.; Preller, AVyiuwen, p. 116, seq.;Canina, liulicazion?, p. 56. seq.) Close to the Porta Capena and the temple of Honoset Virtus lay the Valley ok E<.kkia with theLro s and Afdks Camrnaiu m, the traditionaryspot where Nuina sought inspiration and wisdomfrom the nymph Kgeria. (Liv. i. 21; Plut. Sum.13.) In the time of Juvenal, whose description ofthe spot is a locus classicus for its topography, thegrove and temple had been profaned and let out tothe Jew.s:— "Substitit ad vetcrcs arcus madidamque Cape­na m Ilic nbi noctnrnae Noma constituebat amicae.Nunc sacri fontis nemus et delubra lncanturJudaeis, quorum cophinus foenumque supellex.Omnia cnim populo mercedem pendere jussa estArbor, et ejectis mendicat silva Camenis.In vallem Egeriae descendimus et speluncasDissiniiles veris. Quanto praestantius esaetNnmcn aquae, viridi si marline clauderetundas Hcrba, nec ingenuum violarent mannora to-phum." {Sat. iii. 10, seq.) It is surprising how Becker could doubt thatthere was an Aedes Camenarum here, since it isnot only alluded to in the preoeding passage, butalso expressly mentioned by Pliny (xxxiv. 10.) Themodern Ciceroni point out to the traveller as thevalley of Egeria a pretty retired spot some distanceoutside of tlie Porta S. Sabastiatio, in the valley calledLa Otffart lla, near which are the remains of alittle temple, called by some the temple of Honos etVirtus, by others a temple of Bacchus, with a grovesaid to be sacred to the latter deity. But thoughat present our imagination would more gladly tixon this spot as the scene of the conferences betweenNoma and his nymph, and though respectable au­thorities are not wanting in favour of this view(Venuti. Deaer. di Horn. ii. p. 18; Gnattani, AWi.ftescr. ii. p. 45). yet the preceding passages, towhich may be added Symmachus (" Sad enimpropter eas (aedes Honoris et Virtutis) Camenarumrelicio sacro fonti advertitiu*," Epist, i. 21) and theSot)tiat which places the temple of the Camenae close to that of Honour and Valour, are too cwawto allow us to do so: and we moat therefor amthe valley of Egeria to bare ben that am nachurch of S. S'uto. opposite to the hubs of Caatah.The little fountain pointed out as that of E*ena atthe valley CaJTartUa, is perhaps the maara a* anymphaeum. Here was probably a sanr:car> atthe Almo. which waters the ralley. Xear the temple of Mars, since it as mer.t.<*nathe Notitia in conjunction with h.lay tbeTiwut* ITempest as, built by L. Cornelius Sciprn. tatnaaT!of Aleria, in commemoration of the eacapr of ta*aV jman fleet from shipwreck off the island rt C«aa\ \as appears from the inscription on MM taaA. 1sttemple and the occasion of its faniua m aV]lulled to by Ovid (f'tuti, vi. 193) is the iawtaf Ilines: — "Te quoque, Tempestas, meritam iriuin a» mur, Cum paenc est Corsis obrnta class;- But of the Temple of Misery a, alio airthe same time with that of Mars, we kno» Imore. Near the last was preserved uVManaijs, a large cylindrical stone *o ca*:fmanare, " to flow," because during seasons J iit was carried in procession into the city,sake of procuring rain. (PauL Diac p. IS8ap. .Von. xv. p. 375. Gerl.) Close to the Porta Capena, and probablyof it, lay one of the three Senactla n—^Kestus; but the only time at which are fawings of the senate recorded there is daringfollowing the battle of Cannae, when theyhave been regularly held at this place. (32.) During the same period the tribxaapraetor was erected at the Pisco a Frlast object, which seems to have beenplace for the people in the Republican _p. 213), gave name to the 12th Begia, wkicfcthe 1st, or that of Porta Capena, on the WMarc. xvii. 4; cf. Cic. ad Quint Fr. iii. 7pond had, however, vanished in tin time sfand its exact situation cannot be determined,are several other objects in this district in utajpredicament, such as the Laci"s PicomBai.nkum Torqi att, and others _Xvtitia. The Thermae Commodianaeanae will be considered under the _treats of the thermae. The Mitwokichperhaps a kind of imperial villa (Prdp. 115), appears to have been sitnatsdmodem church of 5. Balbina. (MoatiaI'rlichs Horn. Topogr. p. 112.) Theimphal Arches or Tkajax, V_Dmrsrs, mentioned by the Sotitia in theprobably spanned the Via Appia in the -tween the temple of Mars and the PortaThe arch still existing just within toe 1Sebattiano is generally thought to be thai ofthe father of the emperor Claudius. (Senatus, inter alia complura, marrnoreaaitropaeis via Appia decrevit (I>ruso)," S1) For many miles the tombs of _mans skirt both sides of the Via Appia,remains are perhaps better calculatedother nhject to impress the stranger with aidea of Home's former greatness. For the mmhowever, they lie beyond the bounds of taasubject, and we shall therefore