OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THK SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 271 glad to see the burgesses making use of their constitutionalliberty of choice, and contented himself with exacting fromboth consuls an oath that they would faithfully observe theexisting constitution. Of the armies, the one on which thematter chiefly depended was that of the north, as the greaterpart of the Campanian army was destined to depart for Asia.Sulla got the command of the former intrusted by decree of strabo.the people to his devoted colleague Quintus Rufus, andprocured the recall of the former general Gnaeus Strabo insuch a manner as to spare as far as possible his feelings—the more so, because the latter belonged to the equestrianparty and his passive attitude during the Sulpician troubleshad occasioned no small anxiety to the aristocracy. Rufusarrived at the army and took the chief command in Strabo'sstead; but a few days afterwards he was killed by thesoldiers, and Strabo returned to the command which he hadhardly abdicated. He was regarded as the instigator of themurder; it is certain that he was a man from whom such adeed might be expected, that he reaped the fruits of thecrime, aud that he punished the well-known perpetrators of itonly with words. The removal of Rufus and the commander-ship of Strabo formed a new and serious danger for Sulla; yethe did nothing to deprive the latter of his command. Soonafterwards, when his consulship expired, he found himselfon the one hand pressed by his successor Cinna to departat length for Asia where his presence was certainly urgentlyneeded, and on the other hand cited by one of the newtribunes before the bar of the people; it was clear to thedullest eye, that a new attack on him and his party was inpreparation, and that his opponents wished his removal.Sulla had no alternative save either to push the matter to abreach with Cinna. and perhaps with Strabo and once moreto march on Rome, or to leave Italian affairs to take theircourse and to remove to another continent. Sulla decided— Sulla cm-whether more from patriotism or more from indifference, balliS for.will never be ascertained—for the latter alternative ; handed Asia"over the corps left behind in Samnium to the trustworthyaud experienced Quintus Metellus Pius, who was investedin Sulla's stead with the proconsular command in chief overLower Italy; gave the conduct of the siege of Nola to thepropraetor Appius Claudius; and embarked with his legionsin the beginning of 667 for the Hellenic East. s7.