OCR Output 408 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. enjoyed the queen of the Lombards, and that his owndeath, or the death of Alboin, must be the consequenceof such treasonable adultery. In this alternative, hechose rather to be the accomplice than the victim of Ro­samond," whose undaunted spirit was incapable of fear orremorse. She expected, and soon found, a favourablemoment, when the king, oppressed with wine, had re­tired from the table to his afternoon slumbers. His faith­less spouse was anxious for his health and repose: thegates of the palace were shut, the arms removed, the at­tendants dismissed, and Rosamond, after lulling him torest by her tender caresses, unbolted the chamber-door,and urged the reluctant conspirators to the instant execu­tion of the deed. On the first alarm, the warrior startedfrom his couch; his sword, which he attempted to draw,had been fastened to the scabbard by the hand of Rosa­mond; and a small stool, his only weapon, could notlong protect him from the spears of the assassins. Thedaughter of Cunimund smiled in his fall; his body wasburied under the staircase of the palace, and the gratefulposterity of the Lombards revered the tomb and the me­mory of their victorious leader,ud dath ambto°us Rosamond aspired to reign in the name of her lover; the city and palace of Verona were awedby her power, and a faithful band of her native Gepidaiwas prepared to applaud the revenge, and to second thewishes, of their sovereign. But the Lombard chiefs, whofled in the first moments of consternation and disorder,had resumed their courage and collected their powers;and the nation, instead of submitting to her reign, de­manded with unanimous cries, that justice should be ex­ecuted on the guilty spouse and the murderers of theirking. She sought a refuge among the enemies of hercountry, and a criminal who deserved the abhorrence of x The classical reader will recollect the wife and murder of Candaules, so agree­ably told in the first hook of Herodotus. The choice of Gyges, aipsrai avras trsoittvai,may serve as the excuse of Peredeus; and this soft insinuation of an odious idea hasbeen imitated by the best writers of antiquity. (Grnvius, ad Ciceron. Orat. pro Mi-lone, c. 10.) . ...