OCR Output 176 JERUSALEM. [B. V. in the Grecian language, may be called The Neio City. Since,therefore, its inhabitants stood in need of a covering, thefather of the present king, and of the same name with him,Agrippa, began that wall we spoke of; but he left off buildingit when he had only laid the foundations, out of the fear hewas in of Claudius Caesar, lest he should suspect that sostrong a wall was built in order to make some innovation inpublic affairs; for the city could no way have been taken, ifthat wall had been finished in the manner it was begun ; asits parts were connected together by stones twenty cubits longand ten cubits broad, which could never have been eithereasily undermined by any iron tools, or shaken by any en­gines. The wall was, however, ten cubits wide, and it wouldprobably have had a height greater than that, had not hiszeal who began it been hindered from exerting itself. Afterthis it was erected with great diligence by the Jews as highas twenty cubits, above which it had battlements of two cubits,and turrets of three cubits altitude, insomuch that the entirealtitude extended as far as twenty-five cubits. 3. Now the towers that were upon it were twenty cubits inbreadth and twenty cubits in height; they were square, andsolid as was the wall itself, wherein the niccness of the jointsand the beauty of the stones were no way inferior to those ofthe holy house itself. Above this solid altitude of the tow­ers, which was twenty cubits, there were rooms of great mag­nificence, and over them upper rooms, and cisterns to receiverain-water. They were many in number, and the steps bywhich you ascended up to them were every one broad. Ofthese towers, then, the third wall had ninety, and the spacesbetween them were each two hundred cubits; but in themiddle wall were forty towers, and the old wall was partedinto sixty, while the whole compass of the city was thirty-three furlongs. Now, the third wall was all of it wonderful;yet was the tower Psephinus elevated above it at the north­west corner, and where Titus pitched his own tent; for, be­ing seventy cubits high, it both afforded a prospect of Arabiaat sun-rising, as well as it did of the utmost limits of the He­brew possessions at the sea westward. Moreover, it was an