OCR Output .150 METHONE. MKTUOXE. to Isis. This, accordingly, was the site of the tem­ple of Isis, mentioned by Pausanias, who also speaksof statues of Hermes and Hercules, in the Agora.(Leake, Storea vol. ii. p. 453, seq., Peloponnesiaca,p. 278; Boblavc, hecherches, die. p. 59; Curtius,J'cloponnegos. vol. ii. p. 438, seq.) METHO'NE (M«8«i<n, Staph. B.), a town ofPieria in Macedonia, on the Thermaic gulf, mentionedin the Periplus of Scylax (p. 26), and therefore oneof the Greek colonies established in early times onthis coast. According to Plutarch (Quacst. Grate.p. 293), a party of Eretrians settled there, who werecalled by the natives avofftp(vi6injToi, and whoappear to have come there nearly at the same timeas the o -cupation of Corcyra by the Corinthiansn. c. 730—720. The town was occupied by the Athenians with aview of annoying Perdiccas, by ravaging his ter­ritory, and affording a refuge to his discontentedsubjects. (Thuc. vi. 7.) It appears to have been in334—353 D. c. that Philip attacked Methane, thelast remaining possession of Athens on the Mace­donian coast. The position was a convenient stationfor Athenian privateers to intercept trading vessels,not merely to and from Macedonian ports, but alsofrom Olynthus and Potidaeo. The siege was vigo­rously pressed by Philip ; and the Methonacans, whogallantly held out until all their means were ex­hausted, were at length compelled to surrender.The inhabitants were allowed to depait with onegarment; but the walls were razed to the ground,and the land apportioned among Macedonian co­lonists. Philip lost the sight of one eye in this siege.(Diod. xvi 31-34; Dem. Olyrdk. i. p. 12, Philip.i. p. 41, iii. p. 117; Plut. Par. 8; Luc. de Scrib.Hist. 38: Strab. vii. p. 330; Justin, vii. 6.) Mr.Groto (Hist, of Greece, vol. xi. pp. 363, foil., comp.p. 488) is of opinion that this happened afterwards(B.C. 348), at another place called Methone, situatedin the Chalcidic peninsula, near Olynthus and Apol-lonia. The epitomiser of Strabo (vii. p. 330) placesMethone at a distance of 40 stadia from Pydna.This statement does not agree with the jusitionassigned by Leake (North. Greece, vol. iii. p. 435)to Methone at Eteftiitro-khori, 2 miles from thesea; but the Epitome is not much to be depended onin this passage. [K. B. J.] METHONE. I.(McAtri), Strab.; Mofcinj, Paus.,Scylax, p. 17: Kth MotWcuos, Paus, iv. 18. § 1, andCoins; Vlt&avaitvs, Steph. B. *. r.: Mothoni, Mo-lion), an ancient town in the S\V. corner of Mcssenia,has always been an important place, both iu ancientand in modem times, on account of its excellentharbour and salubrious situation. It is situated atthe extreme point of a rocky ridge, which runs intothe sea, opposite the island Sapienza, one of thegroup called in ancient times Oenussae. "03* theouter end of the town, is the little insulated rockwhich Pausanias (iv. 35. § 1) calls Motbon, andwhich he describes as forming at once a narrowentrance and a shelter to the harbour of his time: itis now occupied by a tower and lantern, which isconnected by a bridge with the fortification ofMothoni. A mole branches from it, which runsparallel to the eastern wall of the town, and forms aharbour for small vessels. It seems to be exactly inDie position of the ancient port, the entrance intowhich was prolably where the bridge now stands."(I>eake.) According to the unanimous testimony ofthe ancient writers (Strab. v iii. p. 359; Pan*, iv.35. § I), Methone was the Homeric Pednsiu, one of the seven cities which Agamemnon offered toAchilles. (Horn. II. ix. 294.) Homer give* toPedasus the epithet iuvtXinraa, and Methoneseems to have been celebrated in antiquity for thecultivation of the vine. The eponymous heroine Me-thone, is called the daughter of Oeneos, the ** wise*man" (Paus. L c); and the same name occurs inthe islands Oenussae, lying opposite the city. Thename of Methone first occurs in the Measenian wan.Methone and Pylus were the only two places whirlthe Messeninns continued to hold in the second war.after they had retired to the mountain fortress ofIra. (Paus. iv. 18. § 1, iv. 23. § 1.) At the endof the Second Measenian War, the Lacedaemoniangave Methone to the inhabitants of Kauplia, who badlately been expelled from their own city by theArgives. (Paus. iv. 24. § 4, iv. 35. § 2.) The de­scendant* of the Naupliana continued to inhabitMethone, and were allowed to remain there evenafter the restoration of the Measenian stale byEpaminondas. (Paus. iv. 27. § 8.) In the firstyear of the Peloponnesian War, B. c. 431, the Athe­nians attempted to obtain pceaenion of Metbone, batwere repulsed by Brasidas. (Thuc. ii. 25.) Methonesuffered greatly from an attack of some Illyriaaprivateers, who, under the pretext of purchasingwine, entered into intercourse with the inhabitant*and carried off a great number of them. (Pans. iv.35. §§ 6, 7.) Shortly before the battle of Artium,Methone, which had been strongly fortified byAntony, was besieged and taken by Agrippa, whitfound there Bogud, king of Manretania, whom heput to death. (Dion Cass. L 11; Strab. viii. p. 359:Oros. vi. 19.) Methone was favoured by Trajan,who made it a free city. (Paus. iv. 35. § S.) itis also mentioned by Mela (ii. 3), Pliny (iv. 5. a. 7),Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 7), and HierocJes (p. 647). Pausanias found at Methone a temple of AthensAnemotis, the "storm-stiller," and one of Artemis.Ho also mentions a well of bituminous water, similarboth in smell and colour to the ointment of Cyurna,but of which no trace is now found. In 1124Modon was conquered by Venice, but did not becomea permanent possession of the republic till 1204.In the middle of the old Venetian piazza there stillstands the shaft of an ancient granite column, about3 feet in diameter and 12 feet high, with a bar­barous base and capital, which appear to have beenadded by the Venetians, when they fixed spun thetop of it, in 1493, a figure of the Lion of St. Mark.Five years afterwards it was taken by the Tarka,and remained in their hands till it was recapturedby Morosini. In 1715 the Turks again toi pos­session of it, and retained it till the last Greek re­volution, when it was wrested from them by thatFrench in 1828. Like other places in Grarc*.which have been continuously inhabited, Mnammcontains few ancient remains. Some Hellenic foun­dations may be traced in tbe city-walla, and anmdsepulchres may be seen above tbe suburb. (Leake,Morea, vol. i. p. 429. seq.; Boblaye, /biracrrae*.dr. p. 113; Curtius, Ptlopomtsos, voL ii. p. 169, ««*)•) 2. A town of Tliesealy, mentioned by Homer (ILii. 716) as belonging to Philurtetee. Later writersdescribe it as a town of Magnesia, but we have nefurther particulars respecting it. (Scylax. p. 15;Strab. ix. p. 436; Plin. iv. 9. a. 16; Soli*, c UjSteph. B. «. v.) 3. More pnperly called Methane, a town and pen­insula of TrocKiiia. [Mktiiasa.]