OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 141 instructions to inform himself of the successors of Caracalla, imme­diately communicated the examination of the African to the Impe­rial court, which at that time resided in Syria. But notwithstand­ing the diligence of the public messengers, a friend of Macrinusfound means to apprize him of the approaching danger. The em­peror received the letters from Rome; and as he was then engagedin the conduct of a chariot race, he delivered them unopened to thePrætorian praefect, directing him, to dispatch the ordinary affairs,and to report the more important business that might be containedin them. Macrinus read his fate, and resolved to prevent it. Heinflamed the discontents of some inferior officers, and employed thehand of Martialis, a desperate soldier, who had been refused therank of centurion. The devotion of Caracalla had prompted himto make a pilgrimage from Edessa to the celebrated temple of theMoon at Carrhæ. He was attended by a body of cavalry; buthaving stopped on the road for some necessary occasion, his guardspreserved a respectful distance, and Martialis approaching his personunder a pretence of duty, stabbed him with a dagger. The boldassassin was instantly killed by a Scythian archer of the Imperialguard. Such was the end of a monster whose life disgraced humannature, and whose reign accused the patience of the Romans ". Thegrateful soldiers forgot his vices, remembered only his partial libe­rality, and obliged the senate to prostitute their own dignity and thatof religion by granting him a place among the gods. Whilst he Imitation ofwas upon earth, Alexander the Great was the only hero whom this Alexander'god deemed worthy his admiration. He assumed the name and en-iigns of Alexander, formed a Macedonian phalanx of guards, per­secuted the disciples of Aristotle, and displayed with a puerile en­thusiasm the only sentiment that discovered any regard for virtue orglory. We can easily conceive, that after the battle of Narva, and theconquest of Poland, Charles the Twelfth (though he still wanted themore elegant accomplishments of the son of Philip) might boast of having;