OCR Output CINNABAR. 55 36. OF MINIUM ; S HOW SACRED IT WAS CONSIDERED AMONGTHE ANCIENTS. Minium is also found in veins of silver ore; a substance, which,both in our own times is in high estimation as a pigment, and wasformerly considered by the Romans, not only as most highly va­luable, but even as sacred. Verrius enumerates certain writers of unquestionable veracity,who inform us, that on festivals the face of the statue of Jupiterwas smeared with minium, as were all the bodies of those who rodein triumph; and this was the case with Camillus. In consequenceof this superstition it is that, at this day, minium is added to theunguents which are employed in the triumphal entertainments,and that the first duty of the censors is to have the minium ap­plied to the statue of Jupiter. I cannot but wonder what was theorigin of this custom. We learn, indeed, that at this day thesame substance is in request among the .Ethiopians, and that alltheir nobility, and the statues of their gods, are coloured with it.It therefore behoves us to make all possible inquiry respecting it. 37. OF ITS DISCOVERY AND ORIGIN. Theophrastus informs us, that ninety years before Praxibuluswas chief magistrate of Athens (which answers to the 394th year ofour city,) minium was discovered by Callias, the Athenian, whilehe was endeavouring to procure gold, by calcining the red sandwhich is found in the silver ores; this is said to have been its ori­gin. It had been previously found in Spain, but in a hard andgritty state; also among the Colchians, in a certain inaccessiblerock, from which it was detached by darts. This, however, was abastard kind; the best was obtained above Ephesus, in the Cil-bianian country. The sand has a scarlet colour; it is rubbeddown, the powder is washed, and the part which subsides is washeda second time. The difference between the modes in which it isprepared is, that some persons procure the minium by one wash­ing only, while others use more water, and obtain the best kind bya subsequent washing. 5 By the term minium Pliny designated the sulphuret of mercury, cin­nabar, or native vermillion, not the red oxide of lead, according to themodern use of the word. Agricola employs it in the same way with Pliny;De Nat. Foss. lib. x. and De Re Met. p. *68 .. 0.