OCR Output j.ju* ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIX. it, to approve themselves to so many excellent persons as earnest­ly wished to be partakers with them in their design, for the de-Jivery of the city and of the government, even at the hazard oftheir own lives. But still Cherea was the most zealous of themall, both out of a desire of getting himself the greatest name, andalso by reason of his access to Caius's presence, with less danger,because he was tribune, and could therefore the more easily killhim. 4. Now, at this time came on the horse-races [Circensiangames] ; the view of which games was eagerly desired by thepeople of Rome , for they come with great alacrity into the hip­podrome [circus] at such times, and petition their emperors, ingreat multitudes, for wJiat they stand in need of; who usuallydid not think fit to deny them their requests, but readily andgratefully granted them. Accordingly they most importunate­ly desired, that Caius would now ease them in their tributes, andabate somewhat of the rigour of the taxes imposed upon them ;but he would not hear their petition ; and, when their clamoursincreased, he sent soldiers, some one way, and some another, andgave order, that they should lay hold on those that made the cla­mours, and without any more ado, bring them out, and put themto death. These were Caius's commands, and those who werecommanded execute the same ; and the number of those whowere slain on this occasion was very great. Now the people sawthis, and bore it so far, that they left off clamouring, because theysaw with their own eyes, that this petition to be relieved, as tothe payment of theirmoney, brought immediate death upon them.These things made Cherea more resolute to go on with his plot,in order to put an end to this barbarity of Caius against men.He then at several times, thought to fall upon Caius even as hewas feasting ; yet did he restrain himself by some considerations ;not that he had any doubt on him about killing him, but aswatching for a proper season, that the attempt might not be frus­trated, but that he might give the blow so as might certainlygain his purpose. 5. Cherea had been in the army a long time, yet was he notpleased with conversing so much with Caius. But Caius hadset him to require the tributes, and other dues, which, when notpaid in due time, were forfeited to Caesar's treasury ; and he hadmade some delays in requiring them, because those burdens hadbeen doubled, and hath rather indulged his own mild disposition,than performed Caius's command; nay, indeed, he provokedCaius to anger by his sparing men, and pitying the hard fortunesof those from whom he demanded the taxes, and Caius upbraid­ed him with his sloth and effeminacy in being so long about col­lecting