OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 75 been justly accused by the voice of the people and ofposterity: but public discontent is credulous; privatemalice is bold; and a lover of truth will peruse with asuspicious eye the instructive anecdotes of Procopius.The secret historian represents only the vices of Justinian,and those vices are darkened by his malevolent pencil.Ambiguous actions are imputed to the worst motives:error is confounded with guilt, accident with design, andlaws with abuses: the partial injustice of a moment isdexterously applied as the general maxim of a reign ofthirty-two years: the emperor alone is made responsi­ble for the faults of his officers, the disorders of the times,and the corruption of his subjects; and even the calami­ties of nature, plagues, earthquakes, and inundations, areimputed to the prince of the demons, who had mischiev­ously assumed the form of Justinian.p After this precaution, I shall briefly relate the anec­dotes of avarice and rapine, under the following heads.—[. Justinian was so profuse that he could not be libe­ral. The civil and military officers, when they were PenJeiwnadmitted into the service of the palace, obtained a hum- sau"B!"ble rank and a moderate stipend; they ascended byseniority to a station of affluence and repose; the an­nual pensions, of which the most honourable class wasabolished by Justinian, amounted to four hundred thou­sand pounds; and this domestic economy was deploredby the venal or indigent courtiers as the last outrage onthe majesty of the empire. The posts, the salaries ofphysicians, and the nocturnal illuminations, were objectsof more general concern; and the cities might justlycomplain, that he usurped the municipal revenues whichhad been appropriated to these useful institutions. Eventhe soldiers were injured; and such was the decay ofmilitary spirit, that they were injured with impunity. Centenaries of gold were brought by strong arms into the hippodrome.—"Dehita genitoris persolut, caata recepit."» The Anecdotes (c. 11—14. 18. 20. 30.) supply many faots and more com­plaints. G 2