OCR Output 290 TITUS LIVRTS' . , BOOK IR. which he had formed at the distance of a mile from theenemy. The vacant space between the camps servedthe enemy for ranging themselves in order of battle. When the enemy advanced to bid them defiance, theywere answered with silence. At length the JEqoi andVolsci, wearied with standing under arms, and expectingbattle to no purpose, thought the victory was fairly givenup to them; and accordingly, sent out detachments oftheir troops to ravage the country of the Latins and Her-nici: In consequence of which, the few that remained-might rather be considered as a guard to the camp, thana force sufficient for a general engagement. The consul perceiving their weakness, gave them thealarm i.n his turn; and his trcfops being drawn up in or­der of battle, challenged them to come out. Consciousof their inferiority, they did not accept, which inspiredthe Romans immediately with ap extraordinary degreeof courage; concluding their enemies, now tremblingwithin their camp, already in their power. They con­tinued the rest of the day under arms, but night obligedthem to retire, full of hopes, to rest and refresh them­selves. Very different was the situation of the enemy's spirits.Expresses were posted away in all haste, to recal thosewho had been dispersed to plunder. The parties at nogreat distance returned; but they who had made agreater excursion, were not found. Early next morningthe Roman army marched out of their camp, in orderto attack the enemies lines, should they decline comingto battle: and* when the day was far spent, and no ap­pearance of the enemy's stirring, the consul gave thesignal for the attack. Seeing the Roman army in mo­tion, the jEqui and Volsci ashamed, that victorious asthey had been, they should now defend themselves ra­ther by their works than their swords, they applied totheir generals, and with much importunity obtained thesignal. When some of 'their battalions had already njarchedout at the gates of the camp, and others foUowed in pro­per order, each man in his rank, -the consul advancedagainst them, before they could be supported by thev. hole army. Wherefore, charging them before all the