OCR Output PHBYGIA. PHUYGIA. Immt mm aotised the greatest influence upon3» fur out only wu tbeir political im- }rx« ttiimei but their national independence™ U. mi uW language and religion were sotajrj ifcud that it ia scarcely possible to sepa­ri* fom^i rtanenta from what ia original andi.-nm In the north also the Phrygians wereus prsagi, for the same Thracians who hadtn tan act of Europe, also invaded Asia; foriiiafti Uoiier oata Dot distinctly mention Thra-am a iiia, yet. in the historical ages, they occti-|ri •> eault (nut from the Hellespont to Hera-akt tl» names of Thyni, Bitbyni, and Mari-asVa (Caep. Herod, vii. 75.) The conflictsaffvt tin ancient Thrygiana and the ThraciansI to ia several legends. Thus king Midas'*beo the Treves ravaged Asia Minor • Bra I'lphugonia and Cilicia (Strab. i. p. 61);'J* Maraadrra are described as engaged in a warKin* tie Mnkim and Bebryces, in which Mygdon,■t bar of tbt Utter, wms slain. (Apollod. i. 9. §Ha 1 j 9; Apollon. Rhod. ii. 752, 780, 786,a* a»*ciol; Tieta. CkiL iii. 808, Ac.) There ^rul daring which the Phrygians are said tov* oecued the supremacy at se.i, which lasted • fmtj-tn, and, according to others, only fivean. ud which is assigned to the beginning of the*■ "ttury a. c, ia probably connected with thatf a 'tin the Phrygians were engaged in per-"ai»an(Diod. vii.'l3; Syncett p. 181)i and itw km been about the same time that Phrygiansm .Scamaoder and from Troy migrated to■V (raos, r. 25. § 6.) ■1 n» • uJatary circumstance tliat the numerous*• aktas an the cmsl of Asia Minor counter- • tit- rpreading influence of the Semitic race;III la* ttrragth of the Phrygians was broken;n rmi aiibdrswu from ail quarters to the cen-■ r** of the peninsula, and Croesus incorpo-»tiro with his own empire. During the con-■» °f Cvraa, Greater and Lesser Phrygia arearr s»tinpii.bed (Xenoph. Cyrop. i. 5. § 3, vi.f lo. ra. 4. § 16, viii. 6. § 7), the former being■*« »ya satrap (ii. 1. § 5), and the latter,I "jM Phrygia on the Hellespont, by a king. tfc uring thus reached the period of authentic*T »* at enabled to tarn our attention to tbe■** the Phrygians, and the country which«^-raWy inhabited. As to the name Phryges,W firyrat. Briers. Breuci, Bebryces, and Be-are oaly diSereiit forms, we are informed■yoaas (a, w. apiytt) that in the language of^Krci Lydiana (that is, Maeonians) it signifiedThe nation bearing this name appears*r*i' <i a eery peaceable disposition, and un- • "«>t (reign impressions and influences.tam> many traditions and legends points to **< «■ heroic period in their hUtory, but all • ■'—ii liil mystic and fantastic character,•a* of their early history is connected with■*"» Mian and Gordius- After the conquest** tkxstj by Persia, the Phrygians are gene- =»i-jijed only with contempt, and the Phry- *Lca» and Manes were given to slaves.[f>W J7; Curt. rL 11; Strab. vii. p. 304.)"■'iiflimmi increased in consequence of their■• <arfr*'Hiri. Agrimltnre was their chiefpmm; mi whoever killed an ox or stole agri-■a rri)blams was pot to death. (Nicol.•t- r !«, et Orelli.) Gordius, their king, is said to have been called from the plough to thethrone. (Arrian, A nab. ii. 3. § 1; Justin, xii. 7.)Pliny (vii. 6) calls the biga an invention of thePhrygians. Great care also was bestowed upon thecultivation of the vine; and commerce flourishedamong them in the very earliest times, as we mustinfer from their well-built towns mentioned by Homer(/£ iii. 400). The foundation of all their greattowns, which were at the same time commercialemporia, belongs to the mythical ages, as, e. g., Pes-sinus, Gordium, Celaenae, and Apamea. The reli­gious ideas of the Phrygians are of great interestand importance, and appear to have exercised agreater influence upon the mythology of the Greeksthan is commonly supposed, for many a mysterioustradition or legend current among the Greeks mustbe traced to Phrygia, and can be explained only bya reference to that country. Truly Phrygian divini­ties were Cybele (Khea or Agdistis), and Sabazius,the Phrygian name for Dionysus. (Strab. x. p.470, &c.) With the worship of these deities wereconnected the celebrated orgiastic rites, accompaniedby wild music and dances, which wero subsequentlyintroduced among the Greeks. Other less importantdivinities of Phrygian origin were Olympus, Hyag-nis, Lityerges, and Marsyas. It also deserves to benoticed that the Phrygians never took or exacted anoath. (Nicol. Damage, p. 148.) But all that wehear of the religion of the Phrygians during the his­torical times appears to show that it was a mixtureof their own original form of worship, with the lesspure rites introduced by the Syro-Phoenician tribes. The once extensive territory inhabited by thePhrygians, had been limited, as was observed above,at the time of the Persian dominion, to Lk-shkkPiikygia, on the Hellespont, and Ghrater Phry­gia. It is almost impossible accurately to define theboundaries of the former; according to Scylax (p.35; comp. Pomp. Mela, i. 19) it extended along theconst of the Hellespont from the river Cins to Sestus;but it certainly embraced Troas likewise, for Pto­lemy marks the two countries as identical. To­wards the interior of the peninsula the boundariesare not known at all, but politically as a province itbordered in the east on Bithynia and Great Phrygia,and in the south on Lydia. Grkat Phrygiaformed the central country of Asia Minor, extendingfrom east to west about 40 geographical miles, andfrom south to north about 35. It was boutided inthe north by Bithynia and Paphlagonia, and in theeast by Cappadocia and Lycaonia, the river Hnlysforming the boundary. (Herod, v. 52.) Thesouthern frontier towards Pisidia and Cilicia wasformed by Mount Taurus; in the west MountsTmolus and Messogis extend to the western ex­tremity of Mount Taurus; but it is almost impossibleto define the boundary line towards Mysia, Lydia,and Caria. the nationalities not being distinctlymarked, and the Komans having intentionally obli­terated the ancient landmarks. (Strab. xii. p. 564,xiii. p. 629.) The most important part in thenorth of Phrygia was the fertile valley of the San-garius, where Phrygians lived in the time of Homer(//. iii. 187, xvi. 719), and where some of theirmost important cities were situated. Iconium, theeasternmost city of Phrygia, was situated in a fertiledistrict; but the country to the north-west of it, withthe salt lake Tntta, was barren and cold, forming ahigh plateau, which was only fit for pasture, andsutfered from frequent droughts. Tlio southernportion of Phrygia, surrounded by Mount Taurus, a