OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APIOS. 3G7 for that purpose. For this reason it was, that the Phoeniciansthemselves came soon, by trading and navigation, to bo knownto the Grecians, and by their means the Egyptians becameknown to the Grecians also, as did all those people whencethe Phoenicians in long voyages over the seas carried waresto the Grecians. The Medes also, and the Persians, whenthey were lords of Asia, became well known to them; andthis was especially true of the Persians, who led their armiesas far as the other continent [Europe.] The Thracians werealso known to them by the nearness of their countries, andthe Scythians by the means of those that sailed to Pontus;for it was so in general, that all maritime nations, and thosethat inhabited near the eastern or western seas, became mostknown to those that were desirous to be writers ; but such ashad their habitations farther from the sea were for the mostpart unknown to them: which things appear to have hap­pened as to Europe also, where the city of Rome, that haththis long time been possessed of so much power, and hathperformed such great actions in war, is yet never mentionedby Herodotus, nor by Thucydides, nor by any one of theircontemporaries; and it was very late, and with great diffi­culty, that the Romans became known to the Greeks. Nay,those that were reckoned the most exact historians, andEphorus for one, was so very ignorant of the Gauls and theSpaniards, that he supposed the Spaniards who inhabit sogreat a part of the western regions of the earth, to be nomore than one city. Those historians also have ventured todescribe such customs as were made use of by them, whichthey never had cither done or said ; and the reason why thesewriters did not know the truth of their affairs was this, thatthey had not any commerce together; but the reason whythey wrote such falsities was this, that they had a mind toappear to know things which others had not known. Howcan it then be any wonder, if our nation was no more knownto many of the Greeks, nor had given them any occasion tomention them in their writings, while they were so remotefrom the sea, and had a conduct of life so peculiar to them­selves ?