OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 5 were enabled to extend their excursions as far as the Medi­terranean, and to pillage even the territory of the Bastulo-Phoenicians not far from the Roman capital New Carthage(Cartagena). The Romans at home took the matter soseriously as to resolve on sending a consul to Spain, a stepwhich had not been taken since 559; and, in order to 195-accelerate the despatch of aid, they even made the newconsuls enter on office two months and a half before thelegal time. For this reason the day for the consuls enteringon office was shifted from the 15th of March to the 1st ofJanuary ; and thus was established the beginning of the yearwhich we still make use of at the present day. But, beforethe consul Quintus Fulvius Nobilior arrived with his army,a very serious encounter took place on the right bank of theTagus between the praetor Lucius Mummius, governor ofFurther Spain, and the Lusitanians, now led after the fall ofPunicus by his successor Caesarus (601). Fortune was at 153.first favourable to the Romans; the Lusitanian army wasbroken and their camp was taken. But the Romans, alreadyfatigued by their march and falling out of their ranks in thedisorder of the pursuit, were at length completely defeatedby their already vanquished antagonists, and lost their owncamp in addition to that of the enemy, as well as 9000dead. The flame of war now blazed forth far and vide. The CeltiberianLusitanians on the left bank of the Tagus, led by Cancamus, war.threw themselves on the Celtici subject to the Romans(in Alentejo), and took their town Conistorgis. The Lusi­tanians sent the standards taken from Mummius to theCeltiberians at once as an announcement of victory and asummons to arms; and among these, too, there was no wantof ferment. Two small Celtiberian tribes in the neighbour­hood of the powerful Arevacae (near the sources of thePouro and Tagus), the Belli and the Titthi, had resolved tosettle together in Segeda, one of their towns. While theywere occupied in building the walls, the Romans orderedthem to desist, because the Sempronian regulations prohibitedthe subject communities from founding towns at their owndiscretion; and they at the same time required the contribu­tion of money and men which was due by treaty but for aconsiderable period had not been demanded. The Spaniardsrefused to obey either command, alleging that they were en­gaged merely in enlarging, not in founding, a city, and that