OCR Output CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 341 in the presence of Romulus, witnesses not to be imposedon with a fictitious inscription, calls himself, A. COKNE-LIUS Cossus, CONSUL. CHAP. XXI. An epidemical distemper rages among the Vejentes andFalisci. T/ie Fidenates attempt a descent upon the Romanterritory. iN the consulship of M. Cornelius Maluginensis andL,. Paperius Crassus, the Roman armies marched intothe territories of the Vejentes and Falisci, and broughtoffa iarge booty in prisoners and cattle; but the enemykept out .of the way, so that there was no opportunityof coming to blows. They did not, however, lay siegeto any of their cities, because an epidemical distemperraged among the people, and Spurius Maelius, a. tribuneof the commons, was endeavouring, though-with littlesuccess, to raise commotions at home. lie thought thepopularity of his name would enable him to raise somedust, and therefore had impeached Minucius, and broughtin a bill for confiscating the estate of Servilius Ahala;contending, that the charge brought against Maelius byMinucius, was a villainous trick, a vile forgery; andthat Servilius had put to death a Roman citizen, unheardand uncondemned. These prosecutions appeared full asridiculous to the people, as the author of them. Theirattention, however, was totally engrossed by the violenceof the distemper, which was still encreasing, and fright­ful prodigies, such as the news, that houses in the coun­try were frequently demolished by repeated shocks of anearthquake. Wherefore, they had recourse to prayer, IBwhich the people followed the duumvirs. '., The plague rages with still greater fury, when C. Ici-lius, for the seconJ time, and L. Virginius, were consuls,and threatened such desolation in town and country, thatso far from making excursions for the sake of plunder, aforeign war was never so much as hinted either in the-senate or the forum. The Fidenates however, who hadat first kept themselves in the mountains, towns, and for­tified places, were tempted now to make a descent upon