OCR Output an. 1028.] 291 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. servants, in such low employments. Nor wasit reasonable, that when God had broughtso many nations under their power, theyshould depress their own people to suchmean offices of lite, rather than those na­tions. While the Israelites were concernedin warlike affairs, and were in armour, andset over the chariots, and the horses; ratherthan leading the life of slaves. He also ap­pointed five hundred and fifty rulers overthose Canaanites who were reduced to suchdomestic slavery; who received the care ofthem from the king, and instructed them inthose labours and operations wherein hewanted their assistance. The king also built many ships* in theEgyptian bay of the Red Sea, in a certainplace called Eziongeber; but now calledBerenice, and not far from the city Eloth.This country belonged formerly to the Jews,and became useful for shipping, from thedonations of Hiram, king of Tyre. For hesent a sufficient number of men thither forpilots, and such as were skilful in navigation:to whom Solomon gave this command, thatthey should go along with his stewards tothe land that was of old called fOphir, butnow the Aurea Chersonesus, which belongsto India; to fetch him gold. And when theyhad gathered four hundredJ talents together,they returned to the king. There was then a woman queen of ||Egyptand Ethiopia; she was inquisitive in phi­losophy, and one that on other accounts alsowas to be admired. When this queen heardof the virtue and prudence of Solomon, shehad a great mind to see him; and the re- Eorts that went every day abroad induceder to come to him; she being desirous to besatisfied by her own experience, and not by a bare hearing; (for reports thus heard arelikely enough to comply with a false opinion;while they wholly depend on the credit ofthe relators;) so she resolved to come tohim, and that especially in order to have atrial of his wisdom, while she proposedquestions of very great difficulty, and in-treated that he would resolve their hiddenmeaning. Accordingly she came to Jerusa­lem with great splendour and rich furniture:for she brought her camels laden with gold,with several sorts of sweet spices, and withprecious stones. Now upon the king's kindreception of her, he both shewed a great de­sire to please her, and easily comprehendingin his mind the meaning of the curious ques­tions she propounded to him, he resolvedthem sooner than any body could have ex­pected. So she was amazed at the wisdomof Solomon, and discovered that it was moreexcellent upon trial than what she had heardby report beforehand. In particular she wassurprised at the fineness and largeness of hisroyal palace; and not less so at the goodorder of the apartments: for she observedthat the king had therein shewn great wis­dom. But she was beyond measure asto­nished at the house which was called §theforest of Lebanon: as also at the magnificenceof his daily table, and the circumstances ofits preparation and ministration, with the ap­parel of his servants that waited; and theskilful and decent management of their at­tendance. Nor was she less affected withthose daily sacrifices which were offered toGod, and the careful management which thePriests and Levites used about them. Whenshe saw this done every day, she was in thegreatest admiration imaginable; insomuchthat she was not able to contain the surprise * About an. 1024. t What Josephus affirms here, that Ophir, or, as hisand the Septuagint copies spell it Sophir, was the samewith the Aurea Chersoaesus, or rather with the adjoiningisland of Taprobane, now called Ceylon, is the very pro­bable opinion of the great Bochart, Canaan. I. 46. Butit is yet not so certain as to be agreed to by all others.See the note on IX. 1. {Four hundred and twenty, 1 Kings ix. 28.That this queen of Sheba was a queen of Sabaea inSouth Arabia; and not of Egypt and Ethopia, as Jose­phus here asserts, is, I suppose, now generally agreed.And since Sabaea is well known to be a country nearthe sea in the south of Arabia Felix, which lay southfrom Judea also; and since our Saviour calls this queen, voL. I.—NOS. 25 & 26. the Queen of the South; and says, she came from theutmost parts of the earth; Matt. xii. 42. Luke xi. 31.which description agrees better to this Arabia, than toEgypt and Ethiopia, there is little occasion for doubtingin this matter. The common mistake, which is mucholder than Josephus; nay, as old as the Septuagintversion, that Cush signified Ethiopia, beyond Egypt,which Bochart has fully proved to denote Arabia.Phaleg. IV. 2, very probably misled Josephus into hishypothesis. § Whether Solomon's house of the forest of Lebanonwere at Jerusalem, or whether it were not rather at Bal-bec, between Libanns and Antilibanus, may be doubtedSee for the latter interpretation, Authent. Rec. vol. IIpage 887, 888. 3G