OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 243 his misfortunes, from seeing that pestilent woman re­moved into the house and family of his bitterest enemy.Adding, that Masinissa possessed neither more pru­dence nor firmness than himself. His youth, indeed,had made him incautious; but there was evidently morefolly and rashness in the latter marriage than in his.' 14. These words, dictated not merely by animositytowards his enemy, but by anguish on seeing the womanwhom he had loved in the possession of his rival, im­pressed the mind of Scipio with no small degree ofsolicitude. He was however the more induced to listento Syphax, from the marriage having been hurried for­ward, in the midst of arms, without either consulting orwaiting for Laelius; and from Masinissa's haste, for onthe very day in which he had seen Sophonisba made pri­soner, he had contracted matrimony with her, and per­formed the nuptial sacrifice, in presence of the house­hold gods of his enemy. These proceedings appearedto Scipio the more heinous, because he himself, whenin Spain, and when a very young man, had not allowedhimself to be moved by the beauty of any captive what­ever. • While he was revolving these circumstances inhis mind Laelius and Masinissa arrived, to both ofwhom he gave the same kind reception ; and afterwardsmade known their conduct, with the highest praises, ina full assembly. Then retiring with Masinissa to a pri­vate place, he thus addressed him: 'I suppose, Masi­nissa, that in first coming to Spain for the purposeof contracting a friendship with me, and afterwards inAfrica, submitting yourself, and all your concerns, tomy protection, you must have been influenced by somegood qualities which I was said to possess. Now, ofthose virtues which made you think my favor worthsoliciting, there is not one on which I value myself somuch as temperance and the government of my pas­sions. I wish, Masinissa, that to your other excellentqualifications you had added this one also. There isnot so much danger, believe me there is not, to personsof our time of life, from armed foes, as from the plea­sures which every where surround us. He who has