OCR Output 6 ROMAN EMPIRE. that a celestial spirit, an undivided portion of the firstessence, had been personally united with a mass of im­pure and contaminated flesh: and, in their zeal for thedivinity, they piously abjured the humanity of Christ.While his blood was still recent on mount Calvary,1* theDocetes, a numerous and learned sect of Asiatics, invent­ed thefantastic system, which was afterward propagatedby the Marcionites, the Manichaeans, and the variousnames of the Gnostic heresy.1 They denied the truth andauthenticity of the gospels, as far as they relate the con­ception of Mary, the birth of Christ, and the thirty yearsthat preceded the exercise of his ministry. He first ap­peared on the banks of the Jordan in the form of perfectmanhood; but it was a form only, and not a substance;a human figure created by the hand of Omnipotence, toimitate the faculties and actions of a man, and to imposea perpetual illusion on the senses of his friends and ene­mies. Articulate sounds vibrated on the ears of thedisciples; but the image, which was impressed on theiroptic nerve, eluded the more stubborn evidence of thetouch; and they enjoyed the spiritual, not the corporeal,presence of the Son of God. The rage of the Jews wasidly wasted against an impassive phantom; and the mys­tic scenes of the passion and death, the resurrection andascension, of Christ, were represented on the theatre ofJerusalem for the benefit of mankind. If it were urged,that such ideal mimicry, such incessant deception, wasunworthy of the God of truth, the Docetes agreed withtoo many of their orthodox brethren in the justificationof pious falsehood. In the system of the Gnostics, theJehovah of Israel, the creator of this lower world, was k Apostol is adhuc in seculo superstitibus, apud Judsam Christi sanguine recente,PHANTAsMA domini corpus asserebatur. Hieronyrn. advers. Lucifer, c. 8. Theepistle of Ignatius to the Symnsans, and even the Gospel according to St. John,are levelled against the growing error of tho Docetes, who had obtained too muchcredit in the world. (1 John iv. 1—5.) 1 About the year 200 of the Christian era, Irensus and Hippolytus refuted thethirty-two sects, Ti? xtvlaniftw ymffwt, which had multiplied to fourscore in thetime of Epiphanius. (Phot. Biblioth. Cod. 120—122.) The five books of Irenieusexist only in barbarous Latin'; but the original might perhaps be found in somemonastery of Greece.