OCR Output PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 23B burned and scenes of horror enacted, little less tragical than the sacking andconflagration of Cremona. Vitellius stalked about his palace, like a ghost, af­frighted by its emptiness and desolation, till weary of wandering he took refugeunder the bed in the porter's lodge. But he was soon discovered, draggedforth from his pudenda latebra, loaded with insults and put to death by re­peated wounds. In narrating these scenes of strife and horror, the historiancatches the inspiration of his subject, and, like the great epic poet of the Greeks',gathering strength and fervor as he proceeds, rises into unwonted and almostunrivalled eloquence. Witness the series of battles and assaults, which endin the destruction of Cremona by the troops of Antonius. No book of fictionwas ever more full of marvellous incidents; and no novelist or poet ever por­trayed them in livelier or stronger colors. The whole passage (His. 3, 15-34)can hardly be matched for power in historical description, while for layingbare the workings of the human heart in excited and struggling masses of men,it stands, we believe, without a parallel in history.* See first, how he exposesto the reader's view the secret motives and sordid passions ot Antonius' men,when, after having defeated two distinct bodies of the enemy's troops, theycame in sight of Cremona (ch. 19). Again, look at the lively and movingpicture of the calamities and crimes incident to civil war, which is groupedaround the lifeless body of a father slain unintentionally by the hand of hisown son in the 25th chapter. It is a truly Homeric episode, full of tendernessand pathos, relieving for the moment and yet enhancing in the end the im­pression made by protracted scenes of indiscriminate slaughter on the battle­field. Scarcely less Homeric is the description in the 28th chapter of a renew­ed and desperate assault upon the city, ending in those frightfully energeticwords: integri cum sauciis, semineces cum exspirantibus volvuntur, variapereuntium forma et omni imagine mortium. - Then to crown the whole,read the description of the sacking and conflagration of Cremona (ch. 33),where " in so vast a multitude, as different in their language as their manners,composed of Roman citizens, allies and foreign auxiliaries, all the fell passionsof mankind were crowded together—where nothing was unlawful, nothingsacred, since each soldiei had his peculiar notions of right and wrong, andwhat one scrupled another dared to execute." Yet even this is exceeded bythe mingled scorn and pity, bitter sarcasm and tragic pathos, with which ourauthor sets forth the shameful and shocking scenes of burning and pillage, ofrioting and revelling, which attended the close of Vitellius' disgraceful reign,in the midst of the imperial city, when " whatever the libidinous passions caninspire in the hour of peace was mixed with all the slaughter and horrors ofwar—the whole city seemed to be inflamed with frantic rage, and at the sametime intoxicated with bacchanalian pleasures—a dreadful carnage was aspectacle added to the public games— the populace enjoyed the havoc; theyexulted in the midst of devastation, and without any regard for either of thocontending parties, triumphed over the miseries of their country." Those,who cannot read the whole of the Histories, should by all means read the thirdBook. It is almost the only extant portion of the work, in which his descrip­tive powers have full scope. It well illustrates also the author's characteristic■kill in the delineation of character. Take, for instance, Vitellius, and, while « Vid. Life of Tacitus, p. 10.