OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 29 .with honour from Ephesus to his old monastery ofAntioch; and after a short pause, his successors, Max-imian and Proclus, were acknowledged as the lawfulbishops of Constantinople. But in the silence ofthe cell, the degraded patriarch could no longer resumethe innocence and security of a private monk. Thepast he regretted, he was discontented with the pre­sent, and the future he had reason to dread: the orientalbishops successively disengaged their Yiause from hisunpopular name, and each day decreased the numberof the schismatics who revered Nestorius as the confes­sor of the faith. After a residence at Antioch of fouryears, the hand of Theodosius subscribed an edict,gwhich ranked him with Simon the magician, proscribedhis opinions and followers, condemned his writings tothe flames, and banished his person first to Petra inArabia, and at length to Oasis, one of the islands of theLibyan desert.h Secluded from the church and fromthe world, the exile was still pursued by the rage ofbigotry and war. A wandering tribe of the Blemmyesor Nubians invaded his solitary prison; in their retreatthey dismissed a crowd of useless captives; but nosooner had Nestorius reached the banks of the Nile,than he would gladly have escaped from a Roman andorthodox city to the milder servitude of the savages.His flight was punished as a new crime: the soul of thepatriarch inspired the civil and ecclesiastical powers ofEgypt; the magistrates, the soldiers, the monks, de-appearance of a voluntary resignation, which is asserted by Ehed- Jesu, a Nestorianwriter, apud Aaseman. Biblioth. Oriental, torn. 3. p. 299—302. ( See the imperial letters in the Acts of the Synod of Ephesus. (Concil. torn.3. p. 1730—1735.) The odious name of Simonians, which was affixed to the disci­ples of this Tiynm&ws ^ifaffiiaXia;, was designed arf av oni&irt ffgo^Xndnrt; aitaym viro-fOxxo .nftufuu, rm ifut^nfULtm, aAi /UaTI ('•..;--~,: Ti/uxpia;, ftin Sarara; CTI^IS-iraf WTOJ^IW. Yet these were Christians! who differed only in names and inshadows. kThe metaphor of islands is applied by the grave civilians (Pandect, lib. 48. tit.22. leg. 7.) to those happy spots which are discriminated by water and verdurefrom the Libyan sands. Three of these under the common name of Oasis, orAlvahat—1. The temple of Jupiter Ammon. 2. The middle Oasis, three days'journey to the west of Lycopolis. 3. The southern, where Nestorius was banish­ed, in the first climate, and only three days'journey from the confines of Nubia.See a learned note of Michaelis. (ad Descript . ./Egypt. Abulfedn, p. 21—34.)