OCR Output TEHAPIIENT.S. 1121 TELIS. TEHAPHEXES. [Tahpawis.]1K1CHIUM (TWxuw), a town of AetnHa Epic-tm, «i the burden* of Locris, and one day's mitrclian Crocyleium. (Thoc. lii. 96.)TEKOAH (Btircr^ \ Maccab. ix. 33; Bricwa or■tout, Jueph. ViL 75), a town of Palestine in Ju-ii, to the south of Bethlehem. It was the rest*ncf of the wise woman who pleaded in behalf ofulum; wan fortified by nVhoboam; was the birth-ice i4" the prophet Amos, and gave its name tof nlj.tcwit desert on the east. (2 Sam. sir. 2;fin*, xi. 6; Amos, i. 1; 2 Chron. xx. 20;'/rice, ix 33.) Jerome describe* Tekoah as situatedm a bill, 6 miles south of Bethlehem, fromrfc city it was visible. (Hieron. Prooem. m Amr*.I Comm. in Jerem. vi. 1.) Its site still bears the■n« of 7>i:u'a, and is described by Robinson as anrated bill, not Bleep, but broad on the top, andnal with ruins to the extent of four or five acres. cinsist chiefly of the foundations of housesH "f squared stones; and near the middle of the'ire tbe remains of a Greek church. (Robin-, HUn\ H*s. vol. i. p. 486, 2nd ed.)JELA, a place of the Vaccaei in His pan ia Tarra-'im* (Itin. Ant, p. 440). Variously identifiedh ForriaiUas and Medina de Mo Stco. [T.H.D.]rt'LAMOX (TcAo/iwF: Telamone), a city nn>"&>t of El run a, situated on a promontory he­rn the Hons Argentarius and the mouth of the»n»(Ombrone), with a tolerable port adjoiningThe story told by Diodoros of its having de-■•i 1:1 name from the hero Telamon, who accom-'"i the Argonauts on their voyage, maybe safelyitund as an etymological fable (Diod. iv. 56).-»seems no reason to doubt that it was origi-j an Etruscan town, but no mention of its namein in history during the period of Etruscan in--lifoce. It is first noticed in «. c 225, when^ut battle was fought by the Romans in its"lute neighbourhood with an army of Cisalpinek who had made an irruption into Etruria, but1 icterrepled by the consuls C. Atiliua and L.'iliiu in the neighbourhood of Telamon, andh defeated. They are said to have lost 40.000vmii, and 10,000 prisoners, among whom wasA their chiefs or kings (Pol. i. 27—31). The*, «bich ts described by Polybius in consider-«i?tail, is expressly stated by him to have oc- "near Telamon in Etruria:" Front inns, inttcg of the same battle, places the scene of it1' puluoia (Strat. i. 2. § 7). but the authority«-<f-ia* is certainly preferable. The only other-ri of Telamon that occurs in history is inIT, when Marius landed there on his return«ile, and commenced gathering an army around (Prat. Mar. 41.) Hut there is no doubtn tMilinued tn exist as a town, deriving someruor* frwn its port, throughout the period ofiuiian dominion. Its name is found both inand Pliny, who calls it "partus Telamon," Ptolemy notices only the promontory of the(TiAsyiaW &Kt>avt Ptol. in. 1. § 4; Plin. tii. 5.Met ii. 4. § 9). Tbe Itineraries prove that ■ suJI in existence as late as the 4th century ■ /Vat; /faV Marit. p. 500, where it is calledlas Taiamonis "); but from this time all traceli'Sppearv till the 14th century, when a castlesveted ou the site. This, with the miserable■* winch adjoins it, still bears the name ofu.>*f; and the chores of the bay are lined with'■>«■*■ Human buildings, but of no great interest; 4-IL and there are no relics of Etruscan antinnitr. (Den­nis's Etruria, vol. U. p.258.) [E. H. B.] TELCHl'NES. [Khodi;s. p. 713.] TELEBOAE. [Taphiak.] TELE'BOAS (A TnAsfoai ttoto+l6i, Xen. Anab.iv. 4. § 3), a river of Armenia Major, a tributaryof the Euphrates. Probably identical with the Ak- SAMIAA. [T.H.D.] TELE'PHRIUS HONS. [Ei-boka.]TELEPTE. [Thaul] TELE'SIA (TeAwfo: Elk, Tetesinus: TWese), aconsiderable city of Samnium, situated in the valleyof the Calor, a short distance from its right bank,and about 3 miles above its confluence with theVulturnus. It is remarkable that its name is nevermentioned during the long wars of the Romanswith the Samnites, though the valley in which itwas situated was often the theatre of hostilities.Its name first occurs in the Second Punic War,when it was taken by Hannibal on his first irrup­tion into Samnium, b. c. 217 (Li v. xxiL 13); butwas recovered by Fabius in B. c. 214. (Id. xxiv.20.) From this time we hear no more of it till itbecame an ordinary Roman municipal town. Strabospeaks of it as having in his time fallen into almostcomplete decay, m common with most of the citiesof Samnium. (Strah. v. p. 2.')0.) But we leantthat it received a colony in the time of tbe Trium­virate (Lib. Colon, p. 238); and, though not men­tioned by Pliny as a colony (the name is altogetheromitted by him), it is certain, from inscriptions,that it retained its colonial rank, and appears tohave continued under the Roman Empire to havebeen a flourishing and considerable town. (Orell./user. 2626; Romanelli, vol. ii. p. 423; Mommsen,Inscr. Jt.N. 4840— 4915.) It was situated on theline of the Via Latina, or rather of a branch of thatraid which was carried from Tcamim in Campaniathrough Allifae and Telesia to Beneventurn (Itin.Ant. pp. 122. 304; Tub. J'nd.), and this probablycontributed to preserve it from decay. The ruins of the ancient city are still visibleabout a mile to the NW. of the village still calledTelfte : the circuit of the walls is complete, inclosinga space of octagonal shape, not exceeding 1} milein circumference, with several gates, flanked bymassive towers. The masonry is of reticulatedwork, and therefore probably not earlier than thetime of the Roman Empire. The only ruins withinthe circuit of the walls are mere shapeless moundsof brick; but outside the walls may be traced thevestiges of a circus, anil some remains of an am­phitheatre. All these remains undoubtedly belong tothe Roman colony, and there are no vestiges of theancient Ssmnite city. The present village of 7V7rseis a very small and poor place, rendered desolate bymalaria; hut in the middle ages it was an episcopalsee, and its princi|*l church is still dignified by thename of a cathedral. Its walls contain many Latininscriptions, brought from the ancient city, the in­habitants of which migrated to the later site in theninth century. (Craven. Abrvzzi,vol. ii. pp.173—175;(jiuMiniani, Jtizion. Topoyr. vol. ix. pp. 149, 150.) Telesia was remarkable as being the birthplaceof the ceh-brated Simnite leader, during tbe N* ialWar, Pontius Telesinus; and it is probable (thoughthere is nn distinct authority for the fact) thatit was also that of the still more celebrated C. Pon­tius, who defeated the Romans at the CaudmeForks. [E.H.B.] TELIS. [RrwiNO.] 4 O