OCR Output PELASGI PELASGI. (ritfi) says the Pelasgians drove out tlio Mi-. iV4aJLd«laernoiiiaus from Lernnos. The per-ptinbn of the Lemnian massacre were Pelagians.(Hrwt ri. 138— 140; compare Pind. /yA. Od.it 448 [m, Bkh.]; Orph. -4rp. v. 470; Stanley,LDM.il Amtk Choeph. 631.) Utnictmalso reckons the inhabitants of seven-tan ttUnds on the coast of Asia as belonging to thefiiaciu race (vii. 95). According to Strabo (xiii.f. til) Macerates declared the whole coast of1.4*. l*gini:ing at Mycale, to be peopled by Pelasgi,-J :Le Deiglibooring islands likewise: "and theUtAci ay they were under the command ofryUru, who was called by the poet the leader ofs> iviugi, and from whom their mountain wasaM fyueom. And the Chians say their founders•« Pea*jri frcm Tneasalj.** IVsthm (i. 18) says that the first Pelasgian•aw tu led by Wacar to Lesbos, after the Pelasgikd ban driven oat of Thessaly.D-Akm Siculus (v. 81) gives a different accountiia colony. He says that Xantbtis, the son ofpu. chief of the Pelasgi from ArgusT settled■ Ljeia, and afterwards crossed over with his■tn into Lesbos, which he found unoccupied,U JxrW«i among them. This was seven genera-fa* before the flood of Deucalion. When this oc-Lcsbu was desolated, and Macs re us. grandson(according to Hesiod), occupied it a secondla* tsd the island received its name from his son-Scymnoiof Chios (quoted by Kruse, Hellas)d ft£a*gians being in Sciathos and Scyros.*' oat come to Tit Pebugvms in Asia.—On this point weHxxr'i authority that there were Pelasgianstie Trojan allies, ranked with Leleges, Cau­sed Lydans, and called Sum. (//. x. 429.)beat was killed by Ajax, in the battle overof Patroclus,—Hippothous, son of Lethus.288.) speaks (vii. 42) of Antandros as acity, and afterwards (vii. 95) says that4"mw were formerly called Pelasgians by theaod tint when they fought against thetkry Ten Hellenic armour,(v. p.221) quotes Homer's statement thatJatvfcionn o/ the Cilicions in the Troas were■as, and that they dwelt about Larissa. (//.) This name probably signifies a fortressa precipice or overhanging rock, and is anwherever it occurs, of the presence ofTaere were several places of the samec Greece and two or three in Asia Minor,tn enumerated! by Strabo (ix. p. 440, xiii.\ According to this geographer most of the■ *en? Lclrges and Pelasgi. They first ©ecu­'s* blind*, then toe Ma-coast. He argues,aww'i expression ** the tribes of Pelasgians"MO i, that their number was considerable. (l 18) says that the Pehisgi, on being■at of TheMtaly, cropped over into Asia, andMay cities on the aeavcoast. were in existence in the time of Ho­lt Usavy, ScyUce and Plaeie, on the Pro-w£jca be believed to be Pelasgian cities, andae says (l 57). spoke similar dialects, butflaw neighbours. That dialect was,testhnociT, not Greek, but resemblingh**t of the Crotoniatar, or rather Crcstonians, , tke Edones in Thrace.H Tkrismil, comparing this passage with another, in which Herodotus is enumerating thedialects that prevailed among the Ionian Greeks,and uses the same terms, infers from the comparisonthat M the Pelasgian language which Herodotusheard on the Hellespont and elsewhere sounded tohim a strange jargon; as did the dialect of Ephesusto a Milesian, and as the Bolognese does to a Flo­rentine" (vol. i. p. 53). Mr. Grote differs fromBishop Thirlwall in his estimate of these expressionsof Herodotus, who, he thinks, must have knownbetter than any one whether a language which heheard was Greek or not, and concludes that "He-rodutus pronounces the Pelasgians of his day tospeak a substantive language differing from Greek;but whether differing from it in a greater or lessdegree (e. g. in the degree of Latin or of Phoenician),we have no means of deciding" (vol. i. pp. 351—353). Heeren (Ancient Greece, p. 38, note) has someremarks on Herodotus's opinion respecting the lan­guage spoken by the Pelasgians in his day, in whichhe seems to raise an imaginary difficulty that hemay have the pleasure of overthrowing it. Before quitting the coasts of the Aegean, it isnecessary to quote Thucydides's observation (iv.109), that " the Pelasgian race is said to be themost widely prevalent in the Chalcidic peninsulaand in the adjoining islands;" and the legend pre­served by Athenaeus (xiv. p. 639), "that Thessalywas, in the time of Pelasgus, suddenly converted byan earthquake from a vast lake into a fertile plain,irrigated by the Peneius, the waters of which he-fore had been shut in by mountains." The latter is a poetical version of a geologicaltruth, which, though not falling within the provinceof history, recommends itself at once to the notice ofthe geographor. We now come to IV. The Pelasgians in Italy.—Legendary historyhas connected the Pelasgic race with more than oneportion of the Italic peninsula. The name Oenotria,by which the southern part of Italy was foruierlyknown (see Aristotle, Pol. vii. 10) suggests an af­finity between the early inhabitants of that countryand the Arcadian Pelasgians. The name Tyrrhenior Tyrseni, which we have seen is used identicallywith that of Pelasgi, suggests another link. In­numerable legends, which furnished logographerswith the subject-matter of their discourse, connectedthe Unibrians, the Peucetians, and other tribes inthe north of Italy and on the coast of the Adriaticwith the Pehugiaus from Epirus and ThessaJy.Some of these are given by Strabo. He quotesAnlicleides to the effect that some of the LemniaaPelasgians crossed over into Italy with Tyrriieims,son of Atys (v. p. 221). Again, he quotes Hiero-nymus's assertion, that the Thessalian Pelasgianswere driven out from the neighbourhood of Laritsaby the Lapithae, and took refuge in Italy (ix.p. 443). Pausaniass account of the Pelasgian colony ledby Oenotrns has already been given. LHonysius(i. 11. p. 30) confirms it, saying " Oenotrus souof Lycaon led a colony into Italy seventeen ge­nerations before the Trojan War." According toDionysius, a colony of Pelasgians came over fromThessaly and settled among the Aborigines, withwhom they waged war against the Sicels (i. 17. p.45.) Another body ciunc from tlic neighbourhood ofDodona, whence, finding the territory unable to sup­