OCR Output 534 PAL1MB0THRA PALINURUS. of Leontini. It is a mere pool, being not more than4^0 feet in circumference, out early attracted atten-ti"ii train the remarkable phenomena caused by twojt'ts of volcanic gas, which rist* under the water,causing a violent ebullition, and sometimes throwingup the water to a considerable height, On thisaccount the spot was, from an early period, con-fddered sacred, and consecrated to tlie indigenousdeities railed the Palici, who had a temple on thespot. This enjoyed the privileges of an asylum forfugitive slaves, and was much resorted to also furdetermining controversies by oaths; an oath takenby the holy spring, or craters as they are called,being considered to possess peculiar sane! ity, and itsviolation to be punished on the spot by the death ofthe otlender. The remarkable phenomena of thelocality are described in detail by Diodorua, as well asby several other writers, anil notwithstanding someslight discrepancies, leave no doubt that the spotwas the same now called the Layo di Naftia, fromthe naphtha with which, as well as sulphur, thesources are strongly impregnated. It would, how­ever, seem that in ancient times there were twoseparate pools or craters, sometimes termed foun­tains (Kpyvat), and that they did not, as at thepresent day, form one more considerable pool or lake.Hence they are alluded to by Ovid as Stagna Pali-C'rum;" while Virgil notices only tho sanctuary oraltar, w pinguis ct placabilis ara Palici." (Diod. xi.89; Steph. Byz. *. v.Ua\tK-fj\ Pseud.-Arist. Afirab.58; Maerob. Sat. v. 19; Strab. vi. p. 275; Ovid,Met. v. 406; Virg. Aen, ix. 585; Sil. Ital. xiv.219; Norm, Dionys. xiii. 311.) The sacred cha­racter of the spot as an asylum for fugitive slavescaused it to be selected for the place where the greatservile insurrection of Sicily in it. o. 102 was lirstdiscussed and arranged; and for the same reasonSalvjus, the leader of the insurgents, made splendidofferings at the shrine of the Palici. (Diod. xxxvi.7.) 1 here was not in early times any other settlementbesides the sanctuary and its appurtenances, adjoin­ing the lake of the Palici; but in B.C. 453, Duce-tius, the celebrated chief of the Siculi, founded acity cl'we to the lake, to winch he gave the name ofPalica (noAiKTj), and to which he transferred theinhabitants of Menaennm and other neighbouringtowns. This city rose for a short time to consider­able prosperity; but was destroyed again shortlyafter the death of I) i lectin*, and never afterwardsrestored. (Diod. si. 88, 90.) Hence the notices ofit in Stephanus of Byzantium and other writers canonly refer to this brief period of its existence.(Steph. li. I. c; Polenmn, <tp. Macrob. I. c.) Themodern town of Palagonia is thought to retain thetraces of the name of Palica. but certainly does notoccupy the site of the city of Ducctius, being situ­ated on a lofty hill, at some distance from the Logodi Xaftia. Some remains of the temple and otherbuildings were still visible in the days of Fuzello inthe neighbourhood of the lake. The locality is fullydescribed by him, and more recently by the AbateFerrara. (Fazell. de Reb, Sic hi. 2; Ferrara,Campi FUgrei drlla Sicilia, pp.48.105.) [E.H.B.] PALIMBOTHUA (IlaAmttfya. Ptol. vii. 1. §73; Steph. B. s. v.), a celebrated city of ancient In­dia, situated at the junction of the Ganges andLrannaboas(Hirdnjavaha), at present known by thename of Patna. Strabo, who states (ii. p. 70) thatMe<rasthcnes was sent to Paliinbothra its an am-byssador to the king Sandrocottus {(.'handra<jnpt.i). describes it as a vast town, in the form of ifanl-lelogram 80 stadia in length and 15 in breath,surrounded by a stockade, in which oprn spaces *w»cut to shoot through, and by a ditch. Hudlwiutit. was in the country of the Prasii (it. p. TOiVIn another passage he places it, on the authority i*Megasthenes, at 6000 stadia from the nioutla £the Ganges; or on that of Patrorles, who iris sr.tas an ambassador to Aliitrochades, the .*oo of ?*a-drocottus (ii. p. 70), at 5000 stadia (it. p. 689),Pliny approaches most nearly to the com put*! t qof the latter traveller, as he makes the distance fraPaliinbothra to the sea to be 638 M. W nboot 5100stadia (vi. 17. § 21). Arrian calls it the pvat**tof the cities of India, and apparently qu-tta ;»same description from Megasthenes which gtnfemust have had before him. {Indie c 10.) lA>dorus attributes to Hercules the building of its ■""lA(ii. 39). Where Pliny says " Amnis Jomn** «Gangem per Palibothros deeurrit," he is er*J«!l?speaking of the people, and Dot, as some harp ny-posed, of the town (vi. 19). There seems do reaveto doubt that the ancient Sanscrit name of this v*%was Pataliputra. (Lassen, IndijcA. Aitertkt*.i. p. 137; Franklin, Inquiry into the ancientbothra, Lond. 1815, who, however,places uwTM>stiat BhagalpurJ) [V.j PALINDROMIC PROMONTORIUM (IU\i*Bpoi^os &Kpa), a promontory of the extreme Sw.^the Arabian peninsula, at the Strait* of B-ifr-etMandeb, placed by Ptolemy between Occiis K117*rium and Posidium Promontorium, in long. T43lat. 11° 40' (vi. 7. § 7). It now bean tlie rtaname as the strait. (Moresby, Sailing DirtctoKfur the Red Sen, p. 2.) * [G. W.l PALINU'RUS or PALIXU'RI PROM«>\'iORIUM (lla\lvovpos OKpwr-fjpiov, Strab.: CapeMuro), a promontory on the coast of Lacuna. » 13Tyrrhenian sea, between Veil* and Buxentam. Ihad a port of the same name immediate!? ad y-.-^m: iwhich still bears the name of the Porto di /'uib^Both headland and port received their name fnthe well-known tradition, recorded by Yirpl, *alluded to by many other Latin writer*, that it "fhere that Palinurus, the pilot of Aeneas, was ca^ishore and buried. (Virg. Aen. v. 833—87U337—381; Dionys. i. 53; Lucan, ix. 42;4. § 9; Solin. 2. § 13.) We learn fr\*n itrnthat heroic honours were paid him by the Luoju*i(probably by the citizens of Yelia). and that be ha cenotaph and sacred grove not tar (rum thai d(Serv. ml Aen. vi. 278.) It does not appear tjthere was ever a town adjoining the headhunt: *the port, which is small, though secure aai *sheltered, is mentioned only by Dionjsiua; bai 1promontory is noticed by all the geoerapberj <xaPtolemy, and is described by Pliny as torrr^ Inorthern boundary of a great bay which mi'i-sconKidered as extending to the Colainna Rfenca,the headland on the Sicilian strait.-*, Hanithe most salient f*oint of the pn^>ectitie rrm*mountains which se}<irute the gulf of Poeudonis tlthat of Laiis or Policastro, and form tlte clucr ural feature of the coast of Lucania. (Pirn. ux. J10; Mel. ii. 4. § 9; Strab. vi. p. 252; <>n». it.Some ruins of ancient buildings are stiU T»iiijthe summit of the headland, which are pa\«Jknown as the tomb 'if Palinurus. The prvttv^still retains its ancient name, though Talgarlirupted into that of Pahmmdo. Like most mountain promontories, thai erf 1