OCR Output 492 ROMAN EMPIRE. banquet/ The courtiers would surely praise the libe­rality of his grandson Almamon, who gave away four-fifths of the income of a province, a sum of two millionsfour hundred thousand gold dinars, before he drew hisfoot from the stirrup. At the nuptials of the same prince,a thousand pearls of the largest size were showered onthe head of the bride,2 and a lottery of-lands and housesdisplayed the capricious bounty of fortune. The gloriesof the court were brightened rather than impaired in thedecline of the empire; and a Greek ambassador mightadmire or pity the magnificence of the feeble Moctader.The caliph's whole army (says the historian Abulfeba),both horse and foot, was under arms, which togethermade a body of one hundred and s'ucty thousand men. Hisstate-officers, the favourite slaves, stood near him insplendid apparel, their belts glittering with gold and gems.Near them were seven thousand eunuchs, four thousandof them white, the remainder black. The porters ordoorkeepers were in number seven hundred. Barges andboats, with the most superb decorations, were seen swim­ming upon the Tigris. Nor was thepalace itself less splen­did, in which were hung up thirty-eight thousand piecesof tapestry, twelve thousand Jive hundred of which wereof silk embroidered with gold. The carpets on the floorwere twenty-two thousand. A hundred lions were broughtout, with a keeper to each lion." Among the other spec­tacles of rure and stupendous luxury, was a tree of goldand silver spreading into eighteen larger branches, onwhich, and on the lesser boughs, sat a variety of birds J D'Herbelot, p. 530. Abulfeda, p. 154. Nivem Meccam apportavit, rem ibiaut nunquam aut rarissime visarn. 'Abulfeda, p. 184.189. describes the splendour and liberality of Almamon.Milton has alluded to this oriental custom: — Or where the gorgeous east, with richest band.Showers on her kings Barbaric pearls and gold. I have used the modern word lottery, to express the mistitia of the Roman empe­ror*, which entitled to some prize the person who caught them, as they werethrown among the crowd. > When Bell of Antermony (Travels, vol. 1. p. 99.) accompanied the Russianambassador to the audience of the unfortunate Shah Hussein of Persia, lira lionswere introduced, to denote the power of the king over ihe fiercest animals.