OCR Output 244 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. The engagement wiih the consular army continuedtill morning, bv which time the dictator had drawn hisworks quite round them, nor were they quite a match forone of the armies. Then the dictator's troops ha3 nosooner finished their work, than they run to their armsand attacked the enemy's lines. Here was new work cut out for them, without theleast respite from the old, which was still maintainedwith great vigour, and being at last overpowered bv anenemy on each side, they threw down their arms, andbegged quarter, on the one side conjuring the dictator,on the other, the consul, not to place victory in the utterdestruction of their nation, but to suffer them to departunarmed. The consul referred them to the dictator,who being highly provoked, ordered them to bring theirgeneral, Gracchus Claelius, and their other leaders inchains to him, and immediately to evacuate the city ofCorbio; telling them at the same time, " That as be"did not want their blood, he would let them go; but"that by passing under the yoke, they should acknoW-"ledge, in the face of -the sun, they were now a con-"quered people." This yoke was constructed withthree spears, two whereof stood perpendicular to theplain, and the third laid across them, under which, agree­able to the dictator's order, they all passed. CHAP. XXIX. Cincinnaius triumphs. MinutiuS degraded. .HAVING taken the enemy's camp, which was plenti­fully supplied with stores of every kind, and indeed he-had stripped them of every thing, he gave all the bootyto his own soldiers. To the consul .and his army, hegave nothing but a sharp rebuke; telling them, " You"shall not, soldiers, who were just about to fall a prey"to your enemies, have any share in their spoils. And"as for you L. Minucius, titl you begin to have the spi-"rit of a consul, you shall only serve as a lieutenam-ge-"neral in this army." Minucius abdicated the consul­ship, and continued with the army as he was ordered.So religiously was discipline observed at this time, and