OCR Output CHAP. L. 275 art and power of the monarchs of the east have beenconfined to the simplicity of the original model.3 Aspacious portico encloses the quadrangle of the Caaba;a square chapel, twenty-four cubits long, twenty-threebroad, and twenty-seven high; a door and a windowadmit the light; the double roof is supported by threepillars of wood; a spout (now of gold) discharges therain-water, and the well Zanzem is protected by a domefrom accidental pollution. The tribe of Koreish, byfraud or force, had acquired the custody of the Caaba;the sacerdotal office devolved through four lineal de­scents to the grandfather of Mahomet; and the familyof the Hashemites, from whence he sprung, was themost respectable and sacred in the eyes of their coun­try.1* The precincts of Mecca enjoyed the rights ofsanctuary; and, in the last month of each year, the cityand the temple were crowded with a long train of pil­grims, who presented their vows and offerings in thehouse of God. The same rites, which are now accom­plished by the faithful Mussulman, were invented andpractised by the superstition of the idolaters. At anawful distance they cast away their garments: seventimes, with hasty steps, they encircled the Caaba, andkissed the black stone: seven times they visited andadored the adjacent mountains; seven times they threwstones into the valley of Mina; and the pilgrimage wasachieved, as at the present hour, by a sacrifice of sheepand camels, and the burial of their hair and nails in theconsecrated ground. Each tribe either found or intro­duced in the Caaba their domestic worship: the templewas adorned, or defiled, with three hundred and sixty * The original plan of the Caaba (which is servilely copied in Sale, the Univer­sal History, &c.) was a Turkish draught, which Beland (de Religions Moham-nn ilic.'L, p. 113—123.) has corrected and explained from the best authorities. Forthe description and legend of the Caaba, consult Pocock, (Specimen, p. 115—122.)'the Bibliotheque Orientale of d'Herbelot, (Cooto, Ilagir, Zansem, &C.) and Sale.(Preliminary Discourse, p. 114—122.) • '• Cosa, the fifth ancestor of Mahomet, must have usurped the Caaba A. D. 440.but the story is differently told by Jannebi, (Gagnier, Vie de Mahomet, torn. 1.p. 65-—69.) and by Abulfeda. (in Vit , Moharn. c. 6. p. 13.) T2