OCR Output CHAP. XL!.] QF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 181 triumphant, burnt their tents, and tumultuously repassed•the Milvian bridge. They repassed not with impunity:their thronging multitudes, oppressed in a narrow pas­sage, were driven headlong into the Tiber by their ownfears and the pursuit of the enemy; and the Roman"general, sallying from the Pincian gate, inflicted a se­vere and disgraceful wound on their retreat. The slowlength of a sickly and desponding host was heavilydragged along the Flaminian way; from whence thebarbarians were sometimes compelled to deviate, Jestthey should encounter the hostile garrisons that guardedthe high road to Rimini and Ravenna. Yet so power­ful was this flying army, that Vitiges spared ten thou­sand men for the defence of the cities which he was mostsolicitous to preserve, and detached his nephew Uraias,with an adequate force, for the chastisement of rebelliousMilan. At the head of his principal army, he besieged.Rimini, only thirty-three miles distant from the Gothiccapital. A feeble rampart, and a shallow ditch, weremaintained by the skill and valour of John the Sanguina­ry, who shared the danger and fatigue of the meanestsoldier, and emulated, on a theatre less illustrious, themilitary virtues of his great commander. ' The towers L?s?Ri-and battering engines of the barbarians were rendereduseless; their attacks were repulsed; and the tediousblockade, which reduced the garrison to the last ex­tremity of hunger, afforded time for the union and marchof the Roman forces. A fleet which had surprised An-cona, sailed along the coast of the Hadriatic, to the re­lief of the besieged city. The eunuch Narses landed inPicenum with two thousand Heruli and five thousand ofthe bravest troops of the east. The rock of the Ap-pennine was forced; ten thousand veterans moved roundthe foot of the mountains, under the command of Beli-sarius himself; and a new army, whose encampmentblazed with innumerable lights, appeared to advancealong the Flaminian way. Overwhelmed with astonish- - ■