OCR Output MIGRON. 355 MILETUS. MTGRON, a town in the tribe of Benjamin, men­tions! in 1 Samuel, xiv. 2 (where the LXX. readsKsyiiiy) as in the extreme bonier of Gibeah,celebrated for its pomegranate tree; and connectedwith Aiath (probably Ai) in Isaiah, x. 28 (wherethe LXX. reads MayytSii'). Its site has not beenrecovered in modern times. Dr. Robinson remarks,"Micron mitt have been situated between DeirIHxtn and ilichmash ;" and so the line of theAssyrian march in Isaiah would seem to require.Bat the passage in Samuel implies that it wasS. of Michmash, which was then occupied bythe Philistine garrison, watched by the Israelites inGibeah, which lay to the S. of " the passage ofMichma.-i," and with which Migron is connected.(Vinson, BibL Res. vol. ii. p. 149.) [G. W.] MILETOTOLIS (MiAwrdiroAtr), a town in thenorth of Mysia, at the confluence of the rivers Ma-cestus and Rhyndacus, and on the west of the lakewhich derives its name from it. (Strab. xii. p. 575,liv. p. 681; Steph. B. s. v.; Plin. v. 32, 40.)Sane modern geographers, as D'Anville and Man­ia-it. have identified Milctopolis with the modernBtli Kessr or Balikesri, but this place is situatedtoo far S. Leake, too, seems to place Milctopolistra far S\V. of the lake, and identifies it with Mi-%iu, which others regard as the site of the ancientP'*maneiram. The most probable view is, that thesite of Milctopolis is marked by the modern Moaliuhor Mvhaliitch, or by the place Hamamli, nearwhich many ruins of an ancient town are found.(Hamilton, Researches, tfc., vol. i. p. 81.&c, vol. ii.p. 91.) [L.S.] MILETOPOLI'TIS LACUS (M.Xi)to</jtoA:tijXi'jinij, a lake in the north-west of Mysia, derivingfc name from the town of Miletopolis, near itswestern shore. (Strab. xii. pp. 575, 576.) Ac­cording to Pliny (v. 40) the lake also bore the nameArtrnia, and probably confounding the river Tar­sias with the Rhyndacus, he erroneously describesthe latter river as having its origin in the lake,whereas, in fact, the Rhyndacus enters the lake inthe south, and issues from it in the north. It nowbears the name of the lake of Maniyas (Hamilton,Hrttonkts, ifr., vol. ii. p. 105. &c.) [L. S.] MILETUS (MiAijrot: Eth. MAfaios, Milesius),once the most nourishing city of Ionia, was situatedra the northern extremity of the peninsula formed,ia tbe sooth-west of the Latmicus Sinus, by MountOrion. The city stood opposite the mouth of theMaunder, from which its distance amounted to 80stadia. At the time when the Ionian colonies werejliated on the coast of Asia Minor, Miletus already'listed as a town, and was inhabited, according toHenjdotus (i. 146), by Carians, while Ephorus (ap.Stnb.xiv. p. 634) related that the original inhabitantstad been Leleges, and that afterwards Sarpedon in­troduced Cretan settlers. The testimony of Hero-dotas is born out by the Homeric poems, in which(/I ii. 867) Miletus is spoken of as a place of theCariaas. That the place was successively in theWis of different tribes, is intimated also by thenet mentioned by Pliny (v. 30), that the earlierwnes rf Miletos were LelegeTs, Pityusa, and Anac-teia. (Comp. Paus. vii. 2. § 3; Steph. B. *. v.)Ontbe arrival of the Ionians, Neleus, their leader,iih a band of his followers, took forcible possessionef the town, massacred ail the men, and took the»»ra*n frir their wives, — an event to which certainregulating the intercourse between the sexes, were traced by subsequent generations.It appears, however, that Neleus did not occupy theancient town itself, but built a new one on a sitesomewhat nearer the sea. (Strab. /. c.) Tombs, forti­fications, and other remains, attributed to the ancientLeleges, were shown at Miletus as late as the timeof Strabo (xiv. p. 611; comp. Herod, ix. 97). Asin most other colonies the Ionians had amalgamatedwith the ancient inhabitants of the country, theMilesians were believed to be the purest representa­tives of the Ionians in Asia. Owing to its excellentsituation, and the convenience of four harbours, oneof which was capacious enough to contain a fleet,Miletus soon rose to a great preponderance amongthe Ionian cities. It became the most powerfulmaritime and commercial place; its ships sailed toevery part of the Mediterranean, and even into theAtlantic; but the Milesians turned their attentionprincipally to the Euxine, on the coasts of which, aswell as elsewhere, they founded upwards of 75colonies. (Plin. v. 31; Senec. Cons, ad Helv. 6;Strab. xiv. p. 635; Athen. xii. p. 523.) The mostremarkable of these colonies were Abydos, Lamp-sacus, and Parium, on the Hellespont; Proconnesusand Cyzicus on the Propontis ; Sinope and Amisuson the Euxine; while others were founded in Thrace,the Crimea, and on the Borysthenes. The periodduring which Miletus acquired this extraordinarypower and prosperity, was that between its occu­pation by the Ionians and its conquest by the Per­sians, i'.. c. 494. The history of Miletus, especially the earlier por­tion of it, is very obscure. A tyrannis appears tohave been established there at an early time; afterthe overthrow of this tyrannis, we are told, the citywas split into two factions, one of which seems tohave been an oligarchical and the other a demo­cratic party. (Plut, Quaest. Gr. 32.) The formergained the ascendant, but was obliged to take ex­traordinary precautions to preserve it. On anotheroccasion we hear of a struggle between the wealthycitizens and the commonalty, accompanied withhorrible excesses of cruelty on both sides. (Athen.xii. p. 524.) Herodotus (v. 28) also Bpeaks of acivil war at Miletus, which lasted for two genera­tions, and reduced the people to great distress. Itwas at length terminated by the mediation of thePersians, who seem to have committed the govern­ment to those landowners who had shown thegreatest moderation, or had kept aloof from thecontest of the parties. All these convulsions tookplace within the period in which Miletus rose to thesummit of ber greatness as a maritime state. Whenthe kingdom of Lydia began its career of conquest,its rulers were naturally attracted by the wealth andprosperity of Miletus. The first attempts to con­quer it were made by Ardys, and then by Sadyattes,who conquered the Milesians in two engagements.After the death of Sadyattes, the war was continuedby Alyattes, who, however, concluded a peace, be­cause he was taken ill in consequence, it was be­lieved, of his troops having burnt a temple of Athenain the territory of Miletus. (Herod i. 17, &c.) Atthis timo the city was governed by the tyrant Thra-sybulus, a friend of Pcriander of Corinth (Herod, v.92), and a crafty politician. Subsequently Miletusseems to have concluded a treaty with Croesus,whose sovereignty was recognised, and to whomtribute was paid. After the conquest of Lydia by the Persians,Miletus entered into a similar relation to Cyrus A A 2