OCR Output 36 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. God to Jacob,' and" that without the consentof Isaac, bade him kill kids of the goats, andprepare a supper. Jacob obeyed his mother,according to all her instructions, and whenthe supper was ready, he took a goat's Bkin,and put it about his arm, that by reason ofits hairy roughness, his father might believehim to be Esau; for they being twins, andin all things else alike, differed only in thisthing. This was done out of his fear, thatbefore Isaac had made his supplications, heshould be caught in his evil practice, andthereby provoke his father to curse him. Sohe brought in the supper to his father. Isaacperceiving, by the peculiarity of his voice,who he was, called his son to him; who gavehim his hand, which was covered with thegoat's skin. When Isaac felt that, he said,"Thy voice is like the voice of Jacob; yetbecause of the thickness of thy hair, thouseemest to be Esau." So suspecting no deceit,he ate the supper, and offered up his prayersand intercession to God, and said, "O Lordof all ages, and creator of all substance, itwas thou that didst propose to my fathergreat plenty of good things, and hast vouch­safed to bestow on me what I have; and hastpromised to my posterity to be their kindsupporter, and to bestow on them still greaterblessings. Do thou therefore confirm thesethy promises, and do not overlook me becauseof my present weak condition, on account ofwhich I more earnestly pray to thee. Begracious to this my son, preserve him, andkeep him from every thing that is evil. Givehim a happy life, and the possession of asmany good things as thy power is able to be­stow. Make him terrible to his enemies, andhonourable and beloved among his friends."Thus did Isaac pray to God, thinking hisprayers had been made for Esau. He hadbut just finished them, however, when Esau came in from hunting; and when Isaac per­ceived his mistake, he was silent. Esauearnestly requested that he might be madepartaker of the blessing which his brotherhad received, but his father refused, becauseall his prayers had been spent upon Jacob.So Esau lamented the mistake; however, hisfather being grieved at his weeping, said,that " He should excel in hunting, in arms,in strength of body; and should obtain gloryfor ever on those accounts, he and his pos­terity after him; but still should serve hisbrother." Now the mother delivered Jacob, when hewas afraid that his brother would inflict somepunishment upon him because of the mistakeabout the prayers of Isaac: for she persuadedher husband to take a wife for Jacob out ofMesopotamia,* of her own kindred. Esauhaving already married Basemmath, thedaughter of Ishmael, without his father's con­sent: for Isaac, not liking the Canaanites, dis­approved of Esau's former marriage, whichmade him take Basemmath to wife, in orderto please him; and indeed he had a greataffection for her. CHAP. XIX. OF JACOB'S FLIGHT INTO MESOPOTAMIA. NOW Jacob was sent by his mother intoMesopotamia, in order to marry herbrother Laban's daughter, (which marriagewas permitted by Isaac, on account of hisobsequiousness to the desires of his wife,)and he accordingly journeyed through theland of Canaan; and because he hated thepeople of that country, he would not lodgewith any of them, but took up his lodging inthe open air, and laid his head on a heap ofstones that he had gathered together.t Hav­ of his younger son, Jacob; as Josephus supposes, II. 7.I certainly cannot say. If so, this might tempt Rebeka,to contrive, and Jacob to practise, this imposition uponhim. However, Josephus says here, that it was Isaac,and not Rebeka, who inquired of God at first, and re­ceived the forementioned oracle ; which, if it be the truereading, renders Isaac's procedure the more inexcusable.Nor was it probable that any thing else, so much encou­raged Esau formerly to marry two Canaanitish wives,without his parents' consent, as Isaac's unhappy fondnessfor him. N. B. Upon this occasion it may be necessary to cau­tion the reader against a common prejudice of the moderns; as if the bare relation of what we should esteem thefaults and blemishes of the patriarchs, and other verygood men in the scripture, implied a justification of them.The scripture affords us faithful accounts of the greatmen with whom it is concerned; and relates their vicesand follies as impartially as their good and wise actions;yet it does not always characterize those actions, but fre­quently leaves them to the readers own judgment andcensure; to their imitation of the good, and avoidance ofthe bad. * Gen. xxvii. 46. t Gen. xxviii. 11.