OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. cian, were guilty of the same crime, the knowledge of his originalobscurity. For this crime many were put to death ; and by the exe­cution of several of his benefactors, Maximin published, in charac­ters of blood, the indelible history of his baseness and ingratitude9. The dark and sanguinary soul of the tyrant, was open to everysuspicion against those among his subjects who were the most dis­tinguished by their birth or merit. Whenever Tie was alarmed withthe sound of treason, his cruelty was unbounded and unrelenting.A conspiracy against his life was either discovered or imagined, andMagnus, a consular senator, was named as the principal author ofit. Without a witness, without a trial, and without an opportunityof defence, Magnus, with four thousand of his supposed accom­plices, were put to death; Italy and the whole empire were infestedwith innumerable spies and informers. On the slightest accusation,the first of the Roman nobles, who had governed provinces, com­manded armies, and been adorned with the consular and triumphalornaments, were chained on the public carriages, and hurried awayto the emperor's presence. Confiscation, exile, or simple death,were esteemed uncommon instances of his lenity. Some of the un­fortunate sufferers he ordered to be sewed up in the hides of slaugh­tered animals, others to be exposed to wild beasts, others again tobe beaten to death with clubs. During the three years of his reign,he disdained to visit either Rome or Italy. His camp, occasionallyremoved from the banks of the Rhine to those of the Danube, wasthe feat of his stern despotism, which trampled on every principleof law and justice, and was supported by the avowed power of thesword. No man of noble birth, elegant accomplishments, or know­ledge of civil business, was suffered near his person; and the courtof a Roman emperor revived the idea of those ancient chiefs ofslaves and gladiators, whose savage power had left a deep impressionof terror and detestation 'V Vol. I. A a As