OCR Output 134= THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. alongside of the former Greek community. So much of thedomains as had already been distributed by non-colonialassignation, remained in the hands of the recipients; therestrictions imposed on them by Gracchus in the interest ofthe commonwealth—the ground-rent and the prohibition ofalienation—had already been abolished by Marcus Drusus.With reference on the other hand to the domains stillpossessed by right of occupation—which, over and above thedomain-land enjoyed by the Latins, must have mostly con­sisted of the estates retained by their holders in accordancewith the Gracchan maximum (P. 90)—it was resolved defini­tively to vindicate the rights of those who had hithertooccupied them and to preclude the possibility of future dis­tribution. It was primarily from these lands, no doubt,that the 36,000 new farm-allotments promised by Drususwere to have been formed; but they saved themselves thetrouble of inquiring where these hundreds of thousands ofjugera of Italian domain-land were to be found, and tacitlyshelved the Livian colonial law, which had served its purpose;the far from important colony of Scylacium (Squillace) isperhaps the only one referable to the colonial law of Drusus.On the other hand by a law, which the tribune of the peopleSpurius Thorius carried under the instructions of the senate, 119. the allotment-commission was abolished in 635, and a fixedrent was imposed on the occupants of the domain-land, theproceeds of which went to the benefit of the populace of thecapital—apparently by forming part of the fund, for the dis­tribution of corn; proposals going still further, includingperhaps an increase of the largesses of grain, were avertedby the judicious tribune of the people Gaius Marius. The ill. final step was taken eight years afterwards (643), when bya new decree of the people * the occupied domain-land wasdirectly converted into the rent-free private property of theformer occupants. It was added, that in future domain-landwas not to be occupied at all, but was either to be leased orto lie open as public pasture; in the latter case provisionwas made by the fixing of a very low maximum of ten headof large and fifty head of small cattle, that the large herd-owner should not practically exclude the small. In thesejudicious regulations the injurious character of the occupa­ * It is in great part still extant and known under the erroneous name,which has now been handed down for three hundred years, of the Thorianagrarian law.