OCR Output CHAP. LI. 371 courage (said the caliph), your life is safe till you havedrank this water: the crafty satrap accepted the assur­ance, and instantly dashed the vase against the ground.Omar would have avenged the deceit; but his compa­nions represented the sanctity of an oath; and the speedyconversion of Harmozan entitled him not only to a freepardon, but even to a stipend of two thousand pieces ofgold. The administration of Persia was regulated by anactual survey of the people, the cattle, and the fruits ofthe earth;' and this monument, which attests the vigi-'-lance of the caliphs, might have instructed the philoso­phers of every age.k Death of The flight of Yezdegerd had carried him be-the last yond the Oxus, and as far as the Jaxartes, twoA.D.' 65i. rivers1 of ancient and modern renown, which de­scend from the mountains of India towards the Caspiansea. He was hospitably entertained by Tarkhan, princeof Fargana,"' a fertile province on the Jaxartes; the kingof Samarcand, with the Turkish tribes of Sogdiana andScythia, were moved by the lamentations and promisesof the fallen monarch; and he solicited by a suppliantembassy, the more solid and powerful friendship of theemperor of China." The virtuous Taitsong,0 the first ofthe dynasty of the Tang, may be justly compared withthe Antonines of Rome: his people enjoyed the blessings 1 After the conquest of Persia, Theophanes adds, aurtt it TW x"j'':': txixti/crevOv/uofo; avaj.pa4.rvti wacray TUT iiv tuna cuuv/unny. rynnt it n avayfttyv HSU atSfxvaiMI vrrsm xai ifurta. (Chronograph, p. 383.) k Amidst our meagre relations, I must regret, that d'Herbelot has not found andused a Persian translation of Tabari, enriched, as he says, with many extractsfrom the native historians of the Ghebers or Magi. (Bibliotheque Orientale,p. 1014.) 1 The most authentic accounts of the two rivers, the Sihon (Jaxartes) and theCihon (Oxus), may be found in Sherif al Kdrisi, (Geograph. Nubiens. p. 138.)Abulfeda, (Descript. Chorasan. in Hudson, torn. 3. p. 23.) Abulghazi Khan, whoreigned on their banks, (Hist. Genealogique des Tartars, p. 32. 57. 766.) and theTurkish Geographer, a MS. in the king of France's library. (Eiamen CritiquedesHistoriens d'Alexandra, p. 194—360.) ™ The territory of Fargana is described by Abulfeda, p. 76,77. » Eo redegit angustiarum eundem regem exsulem, ut Turcici regis et Sogdtoni,et Sinensis, auxilia missis literis imploraret. (Abulfed. Annal. p. 74.) The con­nexion of the Persian and Chinese history is illustrated by Freret (Mern. dei'Academie, torn. 16. p. 845—255.) and de Guignes. (Hist, des Huns, torn. 2. p.54—59. and for the geography of the borders, torn. 2. p. 1—43.) • Hist. Sinica, p. 41—46. in the third part of the Relations Curieuses of Thevenot. 2 B 2