OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL come. And I deny him that was crucified, and whosoever worships him. And 1choose God for my Lord, Islam for my faith, Mecca for my temple, the Moslemsfor my brethren, and Mahomet for my prophet; who was sent to lead us into theright way, and to exalt the true religion, in spite of those who join partners withGod." a i j The conquest of Bosra, four days' journey from Damascus. (1) encouraged theArabs to besiege the ancient capital of Syria.(2) At some distance from the walls,they encamped among the groves and fountains of that delicious territory,(3) andthe usual option of the Mahometan faith, of tribute or of war, was proposed tothe resolute citizens, who had been lately strengthened by a re-enforcement offive thousand Greeks. In the decline, as in the infancy of the military art, a hos­tile defiance was frequently offered and accepted by the generals themselves :(4)many a lance was shivered in the plain of Damascus, and the personal prowess ofCaled was signalized in the first sally of the besieged. After an obstinate combat,he had overthrown and made prisoner one of the Christian leaders, a stout andworthy antagonist. He instantly mounted a fresh horse, the gift of the governorof Palmyra, and pushed forwards to the front of battle. " Repose yourself for amoment," said his friend Derar, " and permit me to supply your place: you arefatigued with fighting with this dog."—"O Derar!" replied the indefatigable Sara­cen, *' we shall rest in the world to come. He that labours to-day shall rest to-mor­row." With the same unabated ardour, Caled answered, encountered, and van­quished a second champion; and the heads of his two captives, who refused toabandon their religion, were indignantly hurled into the midst of the city. Theevent of some general and partial actions reduced the Damascenes to a closer de­fence: but a messenger, whom they dropped from the walls returned with thepromise of speedy and powerful succour, and their tumultuous joy conveyed theintelligence to the camp of the Arabs. After some debate, it was resolved by thegenerals to raise, or rather to suspend, the siege of Damascus, till they had givenbattle to the forces of the emperor. In the retreat, Caled would have chosen themore perilous station of the rear-guard; he modestly yielded to the wishes of AbuObeidah. But in the hour of danger he flew to the rescue of his companion, whowas rudely pressed by a sally of six thousand horse and ten thousand foot, andfew among the Christians could relate at Damascus, the circumstances of theirdefeat. The importance of the contest required the junction of the Saracens whowere dispersed on the frontiers of Syria and Palestine; and I shall transcribe oneof the circular mandates which was addressed to Amrou, the future conqueror ofEgypt. " In the name of the most merciful God: from Caled to Amrou, healthand happiness. Know that thy brethren the Moslems design to march to Aizna-din, where there is an army of seventy thousand Greeks, who propose to comeagainst us, that they may extinguish the light of God with their mouths: but Godpreserveth his light in spite of the infidels. (5) As soon, therefore, as this let­ter of mine shall be delivered to thy hands, come with those that are with thee toAiznadin, where thou shalt find us, if it please the most high God." The sum­mons was cheerfully obeyed, and the forty-five thousand Moslems who met on thesame day, on the same spot, ascribed to the blessing of Providence the effects oftheir activity and zeal. About four years after the triumphs of the Persian war, the repose of Heracliusand the empire was again disturbed by a new enemy, the power of whose religionwas more strongly felt than it was clearly understood by the Christians of the east. (1) Damascus is amply described by the Sherif at Edrisi, (Geograph. Nub. 118, 117.) and his translator, Sio-mta, (Appendix, c t.) Abulfeda. (Tabula Syria, p. 100.) Schu liens. (Indea. Geograph. ad Vit. Saladin.)d'Herbelot, (Biblior. Orient, p. 291.) Thcvenoi, (Voyage du Levant, part i. p. 688—698.) Maundrell, (Journeyfrom Aleppo to Jerusalem, p. 122—130.) and Pocock. (Description of the East, vol. ii. p. 117—127.) (2) Noblmima civitas, says Justin. According to the oriental traditions, it was older than Abraham or Semi-ramis. Joseph. Antiq. Jud. lib. i. c. 6,7. p. 24.29. edit. Havercamp. Justin, 36. 2. (3) EJn yxp Gt/xti tov AiO,- 7rs\tv »\t|9*c, x*i tm,- 'E»*,- xttxvh; et5**.Jwoi', Tijir (fpxii Kai ^lyirTilv ActfcMncav Xiyx,TOis TS »XA.0i; trvfiirxa-iYj otov npjyy ftoXAfl, xse* vimv ftsytSu, xtei jtp-ov tvx-AlfH* gal nfytn etyKxix Km lecratfiov trKrfsi, >u*»}-i; *u?opi* v,x«o.etf, &c. Julian, epist. 24. p. 392. These splendid epithets are occasioned by the figs of Da­mascus, of which the author st-nds a hundred to his friend Serapion,and this rhetorical theme is inserted by Pe-tavius, Spanbeim, &c. (p. 390—396.) among the genuine epistles of Julian. How could they overlook that thewriter is an inhabitant of Damascus (he thrice affirms, that this peculiar fig grows only Toep' nvuvj a city whichJulian never entered or approached? (4) Voltaire, who casts a keen and lively glance over the surface of history, has been strnck with the resem­blance of the fi i st Moslems and the heroes of the Iliad; the siege of Troy and that of Damascus. (Hist. Gene-rale, torn. i. p. 348.) (5) These words are a teat of the Koran, c. 9. 32. 61.8. Like our fanatics of the last century, the Moslems,on every familiar or important occasion, spoke the language of their scriptures; a style more natural in theirmonths, than the Hebrew idiom transplanted into rhe climate and dialect of Britain.