OCR Output lxxxiv A Survey of the History. harvest.—He relates other incidents, until he comes to aremarkable scene of war in iEtolia, where Demosthenes theAthenian commander is totally defeated.—He describes thepurification of the isle of Delos by the Athenians ; and hathfound the art to make it a cheerful and entertaining piece,for the relief of the reader, after he hath been engaged inso many scenes of horror and destruction, and is soon goingto be engaged in more.—The battles of Olpe and Idomeneare sufficiently stored with slaughter, to glut any reader whodelights in blood. The armies in this- history have beenoften thought not to be sufficiently numerous. They makeno havoc ; they do not knock one another on the head fastenough to preserve attention. But these old Greeks weremen and not brutes. And it is pity, that the history of menshould be so much a history of the destruction of the humanspecies. Book IV. In the Fourth Book, the Athenians and La­cedaemonians, principals in the war, are matched directlyagainst one another. Demosthenes, a wise and brave com­mander, had seized and fortified Pylus in the territories of thelatter, had placed such a garrison in it as annoyed the wholecountry, and in the end might wound the very vitals of thatState. The Lacedaemonians slight it at first, as if their bareappearance would remedy all. But upon trial, their land-armies and their squadrons are unable to dislodge the enemy.It is with the true martial spirit of an experienced and gal­lant commander, that Demosthenes harangues his smallbody of Athenians, when he draws them up on the beach ofthe sea, to beat off the ships of the enemy. Thucydidesshines on these occasions ; in him the addresses are alwaysmade, and pertinently made, to the soldiers who are present;they interest and animate, but never run out into declama­tion and common-place.—The turns of war at Pylus are sud­den, and engage attention. They fight by land, and fightby sea; nay, what is more, land-battles are fought from thewater, and naval battles fought from off the shore. The eye