OCR Output an. 1532.] 97 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. vin. OF THE PRIESTHOOD OF AAROH. WHEN what has been described wasbrought to a conclusion, gifts notbeing yet presented, God appeared to Moses,and enjoined him to bestow the high-priest­hood upon Aaron* his brother; as upon himthat best deserved to obtain that honour, onaccount of his virtue; and when he had ga­thered the multitude together, he gave theman account of Aaron's virtue, and of his goodwill to them, and of the dangers he had un­dergone for their sakes, upon which, whenthey had given testimony to them in all re­spects, and shewed their readiness to receivehim, Moses said to them, "O ye Israelites,this work is already brought to a conclusion,in a manner most acceptable to God, and ac­cording to our abilities: and now, since yousee that he is received into this tabernacle,we shall first of all stand in need of one thatmay officiate for us, and may minister to thesacrifices, and to the prayers that are to beput up for us. And, indeed, had the enquiryafter such a person been left to me, I shouldhave thought myself worthy of this honour,both because all men are naturally fond ofthemselves, and because I am conscious tomyself that I have taken a great deal of painsfor your deliverance: but now God himselfhas determined that Aaron is worthy of thishonour, and has chosen him for his priest, asknowing him to be the most righteous personamong you: so that he is to put on the vest­ments which are consecrated to God; he isto have the care of the altars, and to makeprovision for the sacrifices; and he it is thatmust, put up prayers for you to God, who willreadily hear them, not only because he ishimself solicitous for your nation, but also because he will receive them as offered byone that he hath himself chosen to this office."The Hebrewsf were pleased with what wassaid, and they gave their approbation to himwhom God had ordained; tor Aaron was themost deserving of this honour, on account ofhis own gift of prophecy, and his brother'svirtue. He had at that time four sons, Na-dab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. Now Moses commanded them to make useof all the utensils which were more than werenecessary to the structure of the tabernacle,for covering the tabernacle itself, the candle­stick, and altar of incense, and the other ves­sels, that they might not be at all hurt whenthey journeyed, either by the rain, or by therising of the dust; and when he had gatheredin the multitude together again, he ordainedthat they should offer half a shekel for everyman as an oblation to God, which shekel is aHebrew coin, and is equal to four Atheniandrachmae;} whereupon they readily obeyedwhat Moses had commanded, and the numberof offers was six hundred and five thousand,five hundred and fifty. Now this money, thatwas brought by the men that were free, waigiven by such as were above twenty yearsold, but under fifty; and what was collectedwas spent in the uses of the tabernacle. Moses now purified the tabernacle and thepriest, which purification was performed afterthe following manner. He commanded themto take five hundred shekels of choice myrrh;an equal quantity of cassia, and half the fore­going weight of cinnamon, and a sort of sweetspice, called calamus; to beat them small,and wet them with a hin|| of olive oil; to mixthem together, and boil them, and preparethem after the art of the apothecary, andmake them into a very sweet ointment; andafterward to take it to anoint and purify thepriests themselves, and all the tabernacle, as * Exod. xxviii. 1. t It is worthy observation, that the two principal quali­fications here required for the constitution of the first high-priest, viz. that he should have an excellent character forvirtuous and good actions, as also that he should have theapprobation of the people, are here noted by Josephus,even where the nomination belonged to God himself,which are the very same qualifications which the Christianreligion requires in the choice of Christian bishops, priests,and deacons, as the Apostolical Constitution informs us, II.3, VIII. Nor is it unworthy of our notice, that Philo'speculiar word here cited, apieivSriv, that the governor wasto be of a most excellent character, is also the peculiar word of the Apostolical Constitutions on this occasion,VIH. 4. J This weight and value of the Jewish shekel, in thedays of Josephus, equal to about 2s. lOd. sterling, is bythe learned Jews owned to be one fifth larger than theirold shekels, which determination agrees perfectly withthe remaining shekels that have Samaritan inscriptions,coined generally by Simon the Maccabee, about 230 yearsbefore Josephus published his Antiquities, which neverweighed more than 2s. 4-Jd. and commonly but 2s. 4*d,See Reland, De Nummis Samaritanorum, p. 188. II This hin is a Hebrew measure, and contains twoAthenian choas, or congiuses.