OCR Output 160 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V. ally one upon another, although the deep consternation theywere in prevented their outward wailing; but being constrainedby their fear to conceal their inward passions, they were in­wardly tormented, without daring to open their lips in groans.Nor was any regard paid to those that were still alive bytheir relations: nor was there any care taken of burial forthose that were dead : the occasion of both which was this,that every one despaired of himself; for those that were notamong the seditious had no great desires of any thing, as ex­pecting for certain that they should very soon be destroyed;but for the seditious themselves, they fought against eachother while they trode upon the dead bodies as they layheaped one upon another, and, taking up a mad rage fromthose dead bodies that were under their feet, became thefiercer thereupon. They, moreover, were still inventing some­what or other that was pernicious against themselves; andwhen they had resolved upon any thing, they executed itwithout mercy, and omitted no method of torment or barbarity.Nay, John abused the sacred materials,1 and employed themin the construction of his engines of war; for the people andthe priests had formerly determined to support the temple,and raise the holy house twenty cubits higher; for kingAgrippa had, at a very great expense and with very greatpains, brought thither such materials as were proper for thatpurpose, being pieces of timber very well worth seeing, bothfor their straightness and their largeness ; but the war comingon, and interrupting the work, John had them cut, and pre­pared for the building him towers, he finding them longenough to oppose from them those his adversaries that foughthim from the temple that was above him. He also had thembrought and erected behind the inner court, over against thewest end of the cloisters, where alone' he could erect them; 1 This timber, we see, was designed for the rebuilding those twenty addi­tional cubits of the holy house above the hundred which had fallen downsome years before. See the note on Antiq. B. xv. ch. xi. sect. 3. 1 There being no gate on the west, and only on the west side of the courtof the priests, and so no steps there, this was the only side that the seditious,under this John of Gischala, could bring their engines close to the cloistersof that court endways, though upon the floor of the court of Israel. See thescheme of that temple in the description of the temples hereto belonging.