OCR Output 74 [book II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. fore,* nor was it like to that which falls in otherclimatest in winter time, but larger than thatwhich falls in the middle of spring to thosethat dwell in the northern and north-westernregions. This hail brake down their boughsladen with fruit. After this a tribe of locustsconsumed the seed which was not hurt by thehail; so that to the Egyptians all the hopes offuture fruits of the ground were entirely lost. JOne would think the aforementioned cala­mities might have been sufficient for one thatwas only foolish, without wickedness, to makehim sensible what was for his advantage. ButPharaoh, led not so much by his folly, as byhis wickedness, even when he saw the causeof his miseries, still contested with God, andwilfully deserted the cause of virtue. So hebid Moses to take the Hebrews away, withtheir wives and children; but to leave theircattle behind, since their own cattle weredestroyed. But when Moses said, that whathe desired was unjust, since they were obligedto offer sacrifice to God of those cattle, andthe time being prolonged on this account, a thick darknessj| without the least light, spreaditself over the Egyptians; whereby their sightbeing obstructed, and their breathing hin­dered by the thickness of the air, they diedmiserably; and under a terror lest they shouldbe swallowed up by the dark cloud. Besidesthis, when the darkness, after three days, andas many nights, was dispatched; and whenPharaoh did not still repent, and let the He­brews go, Moses came to him, and said,"How long wilt thou be disobedient to thecommand of God? for he enjoins thee to letthe Hebrews go; nor is there any other wayof being freed from the calamities you areunder, unless you do so." But the king wasangry at what he said, and threatened tostrike off his head, if he came any more totrouble him about these matters. HereuponMoses said, he would not speak to him aboutthem ;§ but that he himself, together with theprincipal men among the Egyptians, shoulddesire the Hebrews to go away. So whenMoses had said this he went his way. When God had signified, that with one frost: he gave up the cattle also to the hail, and their flocksto hot thunderbolts. Ps. lxxviii. 47, 48. And from theplain account of Moses, where he mixes thunder, hail, andfire together, Exod. ix. 23. the observation is obvious, thathere were no less than three of the elements in confede­racy against Pharaoh's obstinacy; the air in the thunder;the water in the hail; and the fire in the lightning, alljointly demonstrating and proclaiming, that the God ofIsrael was the God of nature. B. * Exod. ix. 24. t As to this winter or spring hail near Egypt and Judea,see the like on thunder and lightning there in the note onVI. 5. and Havercamp's note on III. 1. J This is the creature which we properly call the grass­hopper; and wonderful is the account which severalauthors give of them. Thevenot, in his travels, tells us,"That in that part of Scythia which the Cossacks nowinhabit, there are infinite numbers of them, especially indry seasons, which the north-east wind brings over fromTartary, Circassia, and Mingrelia, which are seldom ornever free from them; that they fly in the air all compacttogether, like avast cloud, sometimes 15 or 18 miles long,and about 10 or 12 miles broad; so that they quite darkenthe sky, and make the brightest day obscure; and thatwherever they light, they devour all the corn in less thantwo hours time, and frequently make a famine in the coun­try. These insects," says he, "live not above six months;and when they are dead, the stench of them so corruptsand infects the air, that it very often breeds dreadful pes­tilences." God (as we hinted before) calls the locust, thecanker worm, caterpillar, and the palmer .worm, his greatarmy which he sends amongst a wicked and rebellious peo­ple. Joel, ii. 25. And how proper the expression is, inrelation to the locust in particular, will appear from theaccount which Aldrovandus and Fincelius give us of these animals, viz. " That in the year of our Lord, 852, on in­finite number of them was seen to fly over twenty milesin Germany in one day, in the manner of a formed army,divided in several squadrons, and having their quartersapart when they rested; that the captains marched a day'sjourney before the rest, and chose the most opportuneplaces for their camp; that they never removed until sun-rising, at which time they went away in as much order asany army of men could do; that at last having done greatmischief wherever they passed, (after prayers made toGod,) they were driven by a violent wind into the Belgicocean, and there drowned; but that, being cast by the seaupon the shore, they covered 140 acres of land, and causeda great pestilence in the country;" which is enough toshew how dreadful a punishment this was, especially con­sidering that these locusts were such as were never knownbefore, and yet the ordinary locust (as Aristotle and Plinyhave described it) was an animal so fierce and formidable,that one single one would kill a serpent, by taking it fast bythe jaws, and biting it to death. Arist. Hist. Animal. 1. 6.c. 23. Pliny's Nat. Hist. 1. 11. c. 9. and he CUrc's Com­mentary. B. II The Septuagint, and most translations, render it adarkness which might be felt, i. e. consisting of black va­pours and exhalations, so condensed, that they might beperceived by the organs of touch. But some commentatorsthink, that this is carrying the sense too far; since, in sucha medium as this, mankind could not live an hour, muchless for the space of three days, as the Egyptians are saidto have done: and therefore they imagine, that instead ofa darkness that may be felt, the Hebrew phrase may signifya darkness wherein men were groping and feeling about forevery thing they wanted. B. § Exod. viii. 7. "\