OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 375 one Abdemon, a man of Tyre, did solve the problems, andpropose others which Solomon could not solve, upon which hewas obliged to repny a great deal of money to Hirom."These things arc attested to by Dius, and confirm what wehave said upon the same subjects before. 18. And now I shall add Menander, the Ephesian, as anadditional witness. This Menander wrote the acts that weredone both by the Greeks and Barbarians, under every oneof the Tyrian kings, and had taken much pains to learn theirhistory out of their own records. Now when he was writingabout those kings that had reigned at Tyre, he came toHirom, and says thus: — "Upon the death of Abibalus, hisson Hirom took the kingdom ; he lived fifty-three years, andreigned thirty-four. Ho raised a bank on that called thoBroad Place, and dedicated that golden pillar which is inJupiter's temple: ho also went and cut down timber from themountain called Libanus, and got timber of cedar for thoroofs of the temples. He also pulled down the old templesand built new ones : besides this, he consecrated the templesof Hercules and of Astarte. He first built Hercules's temploin the month Peritus, and that of Astarte, when he mado hisexpedition against the Tityans, who would not pay him theirtribute; and when he had subdued them to himself, be re­turned home. Under this king there was a younger son ofAbdemon, who mastered the problems which Solomon, kingof Jerusalem, had recommended to be solved." Now, thotime from this king to the building of Carthage is thus caleu­lated.— " Upon the death of Hirom, Beleazarus, his son, tookthe kingdom; he lived forty-three years, and reigned sevenyears: after him succeeded his son Abdastartus; he livedtwenty-nine years, and reigned nine years. Now, four sonsof his nurse plotted against him, and slew him, the eldest ofwhich reigned twelve years: after them came Astartus, theson of Deleastartus ; he lived fifty-four years, and reignedtwelve years : after him came his brother Aserymus ; he livedfifty-four years, and reigned nine years; he was slain by hisbrother Pheles, who took the kingdom, and reigned but eightmonths, though he lived fifty years: he was slain by Ithoba­