OCR Output B. a. 119 TEAR I.—BEFORE CBRIST 431, prevented their escape, so that many of them perished.The gates by which they entered, and which only had beenopened, one of the Plataeans had barred fast by thrustingthe point of a spear into the staple instead of a bolt, so thatthey could not possibly get out there. Thus pursued aboutthe city, some of them got upon the walls, and threw them­selves over, but most of these were killed by the fall: Someof them found a gate unguarded, and a woman supplyingthem with a hatchet, they cut the bolt in pieces unperceived,though few only escaped by this means, for they were soondiscovered. Others were separately slain in the differentquarters of the city. But the greatest part, and chiefly thosewho had kept in a body, threw themselves into a great housecontiguous to the walls, the doors of which happened to beopen, imagining the doors of this house to be the city-gates,and a certain passage to a place of safety. When the Pla­taeans saw them thus shut up, they consulted together, whe­ther they should fire the house and burn them all in theirinclosure, or reserve them for some other punishment. Butat last these and all the other Thebans yet surviving, whowere scattered about the city, agreed to give up their arms,and surrender themselves to the Plataeans prisoners at discre-* tion. Such was the issue of this attempt on Plataea. The other Thebans, who ought during night to have comeup with all their strength, to reinforce the first body in casethey miscarried, and were still upon the march, when thenews of this defeat met them, advanced with all possibleexpedition. Plataea is distant from Thebes about seventystadia*, and the rain which fell that night had retarded theirmarch ; for the river Asopus was so much swelled by it thatit was not easily fordable. It was owing to the march insuch a heavy rain and the difficulty of passing this river,that they came not up till their men were either slain ormade prisoners. When the Thebans were convinced of that About seven English miles.