OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 215 CHAP. VI. HffiD Jonathan was slain by treachery; and how thereupon theJews made Simon their general and high priest: what coura­geous actions also he performed, especially against Trypho. 6 1. Now when Trypho knew what had befallen Deme­trius, he was no longer firm to Antiochus, but contrived bysubtilty to kill him, and then take possession of his kingdom;but the fear that he was in of Jonathan was an obstacle to thishis design, for Jonathan was a friend to Antiochus, for whichcause he resolved first to take Jonathan out of the way, and thento set about his design relating to Antiochus; but he judging itbest to take him off by deceit and treachery, came from Antiochto Bethshan, which by the Greeks is called Scythopolis, at whichplace Jonathan met him with forty thousand chosen men, for hethought that he came to fight him; but when he perceived thatJonathan was ready to fight, he attempted to gain him by pre­sents, and kind treatment, and gave order to his captains to obeyhim, and by these means was desirous to give assurance of hisgood-will, and to take away all suspicions out of his mind, thatso he might make him careless and inconsiderate, and might takehim when he was unguarded. He also advised him to dismisshis army, because there was no occasion for bringing it withhim when there was no war, but all was in peace. However,he desired him to retain a few about him, and go with him toPtolemais, for that he would deliver the city up to him, andwould bring all the fortresses that were in the country under hisdominion; and he told him, that he came with those very designs.2. Yet did not Jonathan suspect any thing at all by this hismanagement,' but believed that Trypho gave him this advice outof kindness, and with a sincere design. Accordingly, he dismissedhis army; and retained no more than three thousand of themwith him, and left two thousand in Galilee, and he himself, withone thousand, came with Trypho to Ptolemais: But when thepeople of Ptolemais had shut their gates, as it had been com­manded by Trypho to do, he took Jonathan alive, and slew allthat were with him. He also sent soldiers against those twothousand that were left in Galilee, in order to destroy them: butthose men having heard the report of what had happened to Jo­nathan, they prevented the execution, and before those that weresent by Trypho came, they covered themselves with their ar­mour, and went away out of the country. Now when those thatwere sent against them saw that they were ready to fight fortheir lives, they gave them no disturbance, but returned backto Trypho.