OCR Output CHAP. XLlV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 36l The freedom of love and marriage was restrained I"^8con*among the Romans by natural and civil impediments, and bas-An instinct, almost innate and universal, appears to pro- Ur *'hibit the incestuous commerce1 of parents and childrenin the infinite series of ascending and descending gene­rations. Concerning the oblique and collateral branches,nature is indifferent, reason mute, and custom variousand arbitrary. In Egypt, the marriage of brothers andsisters was admitted without scruple or exception: aSpartan might espouse the daughter of his father; anAthenian that of his mother; and the nuptials of an un­cle with his niece were applauded at Athens as a happyunion of the dearest relations. The profane lawgiversof Rome were never tempted by interest or superstitionto multiply the forbidden degrees: but they inflexiblycondemned the marriage of sisters and brothers, hesi­tated whether first cousins should be touched by thesame interdict; revered the parental character of auntsand uncles, and treated affinity and adoption as a justimitation of the ties of blood. According to the' proudmaxims of the republic, a legal marriage could only becontracted by free citizens; an honourable, at least aningenuous, birth was required for the spouse of a sena­tor: but the blood of kings could never mingle in legi­timate nuptials with the blood of a Roman; and thename of Stranger degraded Cleopatra and Berenice,5 tolive the concubines of Mark Antony and Titus.' Thisappellation, indeed, so injurious to the majesty, cannotwithout indulgence be applied to the manners, of these ■ The principles of the Roman jurisprudence are exposed by Justinian, (Institut.lib. 1. tit. 10.) and the laws and manners of tile different nations of antiquity con­cerning forbidden degrees, &e. are copiously explained by Dr. Taylor in his Ele­ments of Civil Law, (p. 108. 314—339.) a work of amusing, though various, reading;but which cannot be praised for philosophical precision. • When her father Agrippa died, (A. D. 44.) Berenice was sixteen years of age.(Joseph, torn. 1. Anfiquit. judaic, lib. 19. c. 9. p. 952. edit. Havercamp;) Shewas therefore above fifty years old when Titus (A. D. 79.) invitus invitara in-visit. This date would not have adorned the tragedy ur pastoral of the tenderRacine. ■ . * • The .ffigyptiaconjunx of Virgil (iEneid.8.688.)seemsto be numbered among Hiemonsters who warred with Mark Antony against Augustus, Hie senate, and the godsof Italy. VOL. V. 1 B