OCR Output 826 ROMA. ROMA. by the inscription of Ursus Togatus: tiiermis TRAIANI THERMIS AURIPI'AK ET TITI, &C. (Grater, dcxxxviL 1). The site of the baths ofTrajan, close to the church of S. Martina, may bedetermined from another inscription found near thatchurch, in the pontificate of Paul IIL. which recordssome improvements made in them; as well as froma notice by Anastasius, in his Life of Symmachus(p. 88, Blanch.), stating that the church alluded towas erected "juxta Thermas Trajanas." It is a verycommon opinion that the house of Maecenas occupiedpart of the site of the baths of Titus, and this opinionis as probable as any other. It was a very ljftybuilding. Horace describes it as a " molern propin-quain nubibus ard u is" (Od. Hi. 20. 10), and from itssituation and height must no doubt have commandeda view of Tibur and its neighbourhood; though wedo not draw that conclusion from the immediatelypreceding lines, where we think the far better readingis, " Ct semper udmn Tibur," &c, the semper belong­ing to u udum," and not to " conteuiplere " (cf. Tate'sHorace, I'reL Diss. p. 24). We have before relatedhow Nero beheld the fire of Koine from the house ofMaecenas. Suetonius, in his account of that scene,calls the house M turris Maeeenatiana" (A'ero, 38),by which, perhaps, we are not to understand a tower,properly so called, but a lofty superstructure of severalstories over the lower part of the house (Becker,Charikle*, i. p. 195). Maecenas bequeathed hishouse and gardens to Augustus; and Tiberius livedthere after his return from Rhodes, and before hesucceeded to the empire (Suet. Tib. 15). Thesubsequent history of the house is unknown; but, aswe have said, it may probably have been included inthe baths of Titus. Close to the gardens of Maecenas lay the HOST]L ami am (Philo Jud. vol. ii. p. 597, Mang.), belong­ing perhaps, to the Aelius Lamia celebrated by Horace(Od. i. 26, &c). We learn from Valerius Maxim us(iv. 4. 8) that the ancient family of the Aelii dweltwhere the monument of Marius afterwards stixxl;whence it seems probable that the Hortj Lamianimay have lain to the E. of those of Maecenas, to­ward* the church of 5. Bibtnna. It was here thatthe body of Caligula was first hastily buried, whichwas afterwards burnt and reinterred by his sisters(Suet. Cal 59). There appear to have been several more gardensbetween the Porta Esqirilina and the molern I'ortaAfagghre; as the Hukti Pallantmni. founded ap­parently by Pallas, the powerful freedman of Claudius(Tac.^'fin.xi.29; Suet. Claud, 28; Plin. Ep. viii.G);and which, from several passages of Front inus (Ay.19, seq.). appear to have been situated between/'. Afagt/iore, the Marian monument, and the churchof S. Jiibiono. Krontinus also mentions (A a. 68)certain Horti Ei'ArintoDiTiAM. perhaps belongingto Epaphroditus, the liberty of Nero, who assisted inputting that em]>eror to death (Suet. Aer.49, l>otn.14; Tac. Ann. xr. 55); as well as boom Hokti ToR-QUATIAJn (c. 5). apparently in the same neighbour­hood. The Campi s Vimin w.is BUB Aggkre ofthe Xotitin was probably an exercise ground for thePraetorian troops on the outside of the agger nearthe Porta Viminalis. Hence the eastern ridge ofthe Viminal and Esquiline beyond the Servian wallsmust have been very open and airy. The Esquiline derives more interest from its havingoeeii the residence ot several distinguished poets andauthors than the most splendid palaces could haveconferred upon it. Virgil dwelt upon the Esquiline, close to the gardens of his j*vtron Maecroas. WW-WfHorace also had a house there cannot be wui: ashe was certainly a frequent guest ailh Macaw,he loved to saunter on "the sonny *Rger." iai Wwas at last buried close to the tomb of hit naaSaalbenefactor at the extremity of the hilL (Sott-TAr.20.) Properties himself informs as that ha aaatwas on the Esquiline (hi. (iv.). i(3. 23); what*dwelt the younger Phny. apparently is tht Iformerly belonging to the poet I'edo ,(Plin. Ep. iii. 21; Mart. x. 19). lttprecaeition will be examined a littie farther oa.treating of the Lacus UrpheL The Esquiline and its neighbourhood ttjcontain many temples of note. That dalready mentioned, was the mcst imported Ithe rest seem for the most part to hsTt -n cremarkable f«.r antiquity loan for an <W e have already adverted to the anaenlmentioned here by Varro ( L. L. v. 49, stq.); ILtcrs and Sacelu.:m of JtprrtK FAorthe southern side of the Oppius; the LcctilLINUS, probably near the Esquiline gate; % 1Poeteeus; a Luces Mefitis, with 1near the Vicus Patricius (Kestus, *.».«p. 351, Mull.); and a Luces of Jcso |where, according to Pliny (xvi. 85), a 1built to that goddess, B.C. 374; although illapjicar from Dionystus (iv. 15) that there 1been one there previously in the time of ilius. An inscription relating to this '<found in 1770, in digging the fouDdatvaamonastery dtlle Puollotte, in the road 1rated the Oppius and C is pi us. We lear{Fa$t. ii. 435) that the grove layEsquiline; but as it appears from Yam 1temple stood on the Cispius, whiUt the:the inscription in question was found oa tht tthe Oppius: it is probable that it may ]down from the monastery of the FUtppimt <opposite height (Nibby, Roma nelAmm 16Lrlicbs, Ham. Top. p. 120; Canina, /■The Sacellum ."-tkeniae, where the |began, probably lay on the S. side of thainear the Colosseum. It seems not impthe Lucus Veneris Libitinae mij ■situated on the Esquiline, on account ttf Ibourhood of the Campus Esquilinus . bollno authorities by which its site can be 1detennined. It was the great magazine Iparaphernalia (cf. Dionys. ir. 15; Festos. |Vitudia, p. 265; Plut. <l R. 23). (line were also Altars ok Mala KobFerris, the latter close to the Marian 1(Cic. AT. D. iii. 25; Plin. ii. 5; Val. Max a.IWe may likewise mention a Tfmimjj. or F«Rhm-kjens (Plut. Fort. R.\0\at Fcin the Vicus Sandaliarius (/nsrr. op. C/ror*. 1p. 288; Plin. xxxvi. 46), and one of 1Vicus Patricius, from which men 1Q. H. 3). The Hjcrculrs Victor or 1ScLLAXtja of the Xottiia was prrhanaas^riWe shall close this list by mentioning 1Spes Vetus, near the Horli Pmtimes allAded to by Fmutinos; of Iprobably in the Vicus Patricias; and rf IMedica, commonly identified with tW 1large circular building in a vineyard drAfaggiore. This building bare, in the tthe name of Is 6Wu£ze, whence Cardan ithat it was the place where the aaaaajaj