OCR Output CHAP. L. 367* clearest evidence of public freedom.11 But their simplefreedom was of a very different cast from the nice andartificial machinery of the Greek and Roman republics,in which each member possessed an undivided share ofthe civil and political rights of the community. In themore simple state of the Arabs, the nation is free,becauseeach of her sons disdains a base submission to the willof a master. His breast is fortified with the austere vir­tues of courage, patience, and sobriety; the love of in­dependence prompts him to exercise the habits of self-command; and the fear of dishonour guards him fromthemeaner apprehension of pain, of danger,and of death.The gravity and firmness of the mind are conspicuous inhis outward demeanour: his speech is slow, weighty, andconcise, he is seldom provoked to laughter, his only ges­ture is that of stroking his beard, the venerable symbolof manhood; and the sense of his own importance teacheshim to accost his equals without levity, and his superiorswithout awe.1 The liberty of the Saracens survived theirconquests: the first caliphs indulged the bold and fami­liar language of their subjects: they ascended the pulpitto persuade and edify the congregation: nor was it be­fore the seat of empire was rembved to the Tigris, thatthe Abbassides adopted the proud and pompous cere­monial of the Persian and Byzantine courts. In the study of nations and men we may ob- Cmlwais * iii-i and private serve the causes that render them hostile or.' venge. friendiy to each other, that tend to narrow orenlarge, to mollify or exasperate, the social character.The separation of the Arabs from the rest of mankind,has accustomed them to confound the ideas of strangerand enemy: and the poverty of the land has introduced k Nou gloriabantni antiquitus Arabes, nisi gladio, hospite, et elaqtuntiA. (Sepha-dius, apud Pocock, Specimen, p. 161, 162.) This gift of speech they shared onlywith the Persians; and the sententious Arabs would probably have disdained thesimple and sublime logic of Demosthenes. 1 I must remind the reader, that d'Arvieux, d'Herbelot, and Niebuhr, represent,in the most lively colours, the manners and government of the Arabs, which areillustrated by many incidental passages in the life of Mahomet.