OCR Output 1013 SOGDIAXA. SODOM. jr. v.; Sodom*, -orum, Tertul. Apolog. 40; Sodoma,-ae, Sever. Snip, i. 6 ; Sedul- Conn. i. 105; Sxlo-niurn, Solin. 45. § 8; Sodmni, Tertull. Carm. deSodom. 4), the infamous city of Canaan situatednear the Dead Sea in an exceedingly rich and fruit­ful country, called in its early history "the plain ofJordan'' and described as " well watered everywhere,before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, evenas t ho garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, asthou contest to Zoor." (Gen. xiii. 10—12.) Itis also reckoned one of " the cities of the plain"(xiii. 12. xix. 29), and was probably the Capital ofthe Pentapolis, which consisted ol Sodom, Gomorrah,Adniah, Zcboiim, and Bela, afterwards Zoar {Dent.xxix. 23; Gen. xiv. 8, xix. 22), all of which towns,however, had their several ]»ctty kings, who wereconfederate together against Chedorlaomer king ofElam and bis three allies, Amraphel king of Shinar,Ariocfa king of Ellasar, and Tidal king of nations.After Chedorlaomer had succeeded in reducing thesesovereigns to subjection, they served him twelveyears; in the thirteenth year they revolted, and inthe fourteenth year were again vanquished by theirnorthern enemies, when the conquerors were iutheir turn defeated by Abraham, whose nephew Lotliad been carried captive with all bis property. Thesacred historian has preserved the names of four ofthe petty kings who at this time ruled the cities ofthe plain, vis. Bera of Sodom, Birsha of Gomorrah,Shuiab of Admah, and Shemeber of Zcboiim; and thescene of the engagement was "the vale of Siddim,which is the salt sea" (Gen. xiv.), an expressionwhich seems clearly to imply that the battle-field, atleast, was subsequently submerged; the admissionof which fact, however, would not involve the const*qnence that no lake had previously existed in the plain;although this too may be probably inferred from theearlier passage already cited, which seems to de­scribe a wide plain watered by the river Jordan, asthe plain of Egypt is irrigated by the Nile: and asthis vale of Siddim WSJ full of slime-pita (beds ofbitumen), its subsidence naturally formed the AsphaltLake. The catastrophe of the cities, as described inthe sacred narrative, does not certainly convey theidea that they were submerged, fur fire and notwater was the instrument of their destruction (Gen.xix.; S. Jtufa 7); so that the cities need not neces­sarily have been situated in the middle of the valley,but on the sloping sides of the hills which confinedthe plain, from which they would still be appropri­ately denominated "cities of the plain.'1 (Roland,PalaeStina, p. 255.) This is remarked in order toremove what has been regarded as a fundamentalobjection to the hypotheses of a late traveller, whoclaims to have recovered the sites of all the cities ofthe Pentapolis, which, as he maintains, are stillmarked by very considerable rains of former habi­tations. Whatever value may be attached to theidentification of the other four, there is little doubtthat the site of Sodom is correctly fixed near thesouth-western extremity of the lake, where themodern native name Utdom or Ksdoni, containingall the radicals of the ancient name, is attached toaplain and a hill (otherwise called Khashm. or JcbtU*I-M tilth, i. c. the salt hill), which consequentlylias long been regarded as marking the site of thataccursed city. This singular ridge has been severaltimes explored and described by modern travellers,whose testimony is collected and confirmed by Dr.Robinson (fiibl. lies, vol. ii. p. 481—483); but itwas reserved for the diligence or imagination of M. de Saulcy to discover the extensive oi&rv tea avcient city, covering the small plain and rasason the north and north-east of the *;;-ra1e*,and extending along the bed of Koay/Kw( l oyaye auUmr de la Mer Marie* L pa. 774). On the other side of the question si ViVelde is the latest authoritv. ( Syria and Pi'in 1851 and 1852, pp. 1H. 115, natt>Lynch, of the American exploring expedaiaa,given a striking view of ibis salt mcumsia,tive of his description of the vicinity of I'aesB. (1peditum to the Dead Sea, pp. 306— SODRAE (ZEofyai), a tribe met with »Jander the Great in the lower Panjab, noraccording to Diodorus (xvii. llttV Theprobably of Indian origin, and may repraaefcaste of the Swlrat. SOGDI (2tf~,5wi). one of the smallerby Arrian (A nab. vi. 15) as encounteredunder in the lower Punjab. By theirwould appear to represent an inmagraina)north. SOGDIA'NA (^ 2<ry5ionk Strah.p. 51G; Plot vi. 12, &c), a widelytrict of Central Asia, the boundaries ofnot consistently laid down by anciestGenerally, it may be stated that Safdisaatween the Ox us and the Jaxartes, sslimits, the former separating it fromAriana, the latter from the nomadScythia. (Strab. xi. pp. 511, 5H;1.) To the W. the province was extendidirection of the Caspian sea, but. in earlyleast, not to it; to the K. were theSeres. The district comprehended theof the present Turkestan* with thihara, which bears to this day theThe character of the country waa verysome part of it being very moon1jjart, as the valley of Bokhara, reryductive. The larger extent wouldbeen, as at present, a great waste. (,iv. 16; Curt. vii. 10. § 1.) At theAlexander visited the country, therebeen extensive forests, filled with ailgame, and surrounded, at least inwalls, as preserves. Alexanderhunted down 4000 wild beasts.§ 19) The principal mountain chains arethe lfontas Oxii to the N. (atMountains,') the Comedaram Muntesrange of the Ai-tagh or Whit* AftS., and the Montes Sogdii (thewhich is not certain, there beiugthey comprehend the Htlur-tapkKara-taghy The two great riven of tasvwere those which formed its(GiMon or Amu-lterjtt) and the JSjfr-Dmrjm). There are, also,streams, several smaller ones,rivers, as the Demos, Its scat is, and tiethe latter, doubtless, the stream whichthe town of Sogd. The generichabitants of Sogdiana is Sopdii oriv. 16, 18; Plin. vL 16 , Curt. iiL *. §race who, as is stated by Strabo (xL p $\7\in character at least, to have bonis* abianco to their neighbours of Ksctmu.these. Ptolemy and other writers have fhof other names.— those, probably, «f 1st (Oesft . feeaVrs of i