OCR Output 248 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Book IV. franchise on the burgesses of all those communities of Italianallies, which had not up to that time openly declared againstRome; a second emanating from the tribunes of the peopleMarcus Plautius Silvanus and Gaius Papirius Carbo, laiddown for every man who had citizenship and domicile in Italya term of two months, within which he was to be allowedto acquire the Roman franchise by presenting himself beforea Roman magistrate. But these new burgesses were to berestricted in a way similar to the freedmen, inasmuch asthey could only be enrolled in eight, as the freedmen only infour, of the thirty-five tribes; whether the restriction" waspersonal or, as it would rather seem, hereditary, cannot bedetermined with certainty.Bestowal of This measure related primarily to Italy proper, which atLatin rights that time extended northward little beyond Ancona andon.. e Florence. In Cisalpine Gaul, which was in the eye of theCelts. law a foreign country, but in administration and colonization had long passed as part of Italy, all the Latin colonies weretreated like the Italian communities. Of the other hithertoallied townships in that quarter those—not very numerous—situated on the south side of the Po received the franchise;but the country between the Po and the Alps was in con-89. sequence of a law brought in by the consul Strabo in 665differently treated. It was organized after the Italian civicconstitution, so that the communities not adapted for this,more especially the townships in the Alpine valleys, wereassigned to particular towns as dependent and tributaryvillages. These new town-communities, however, were notpresented with the Roman franchise, but, by means of thelegal fiction that they were Latin colonies, were invested withthose rights which had hitherto belonged to the Latin towns ofinferior privileges. Thus Italy at that time ended practicallyat the Po, while the Transpadane country was treated asan outlying dependency; undoubtedly because the regionbetween the Apennines and the Po had long been organizedafter the Italian model, whereas in the more northerlyportion,—in which, excepting Eporedia and Aquileia, therewere no civic or Latin colonies, and from which in fact thenative tribes had been by no means dislodged as they werefrom the southern district—Celtic habits and the Celtic can­tonal constitution still in great part subsisted. Considerable as these concessions were, if we comparethem with the rigid exclusiveness which the Roman burgess­