OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. was in Capricorn, another comet appeared to follow inthe Sagitary: the size was gradually increasing; thehead was in the east, the tail in the west, and it re­mained visible about forty days. The nations, who gazedwith astonishment, expected wars and calamities fromtheir baleful influence: and these expectations wereabundantly fulfilled. The astronomers dissembled theirignorance of the nature of these blazing stars, which theyaffected to represent as the floating meteors of the air;and few among them embraced the simple notion of Se­neca and the Chaldeans, that they are only planets of alonger period and more eccentric motion/ Time andscience have justified the conjectures and predictions ofthe Roman sage: the telescope has opened new worldsto the eyes of astronomers ;g and, in the narrow space ofhistory and fable, one and the same comet is already foundto have revisited the earth in seven equal revolutions offive hundred and seventy-five years. The Jirst* whichascends beyond the Christian era one thousand sevenhundred and sixty seven years, is coeval with Ogyges,.the father of Grecian antiquity. And this appearanceexplains the tradition which Varro has preserved, thatunder his reign the planet Venus changed her colour,size, figure, and course; a prodigy without exampleeither in past or succeeding ages.' The second visit inthe year ] 193, is darkly implied in the fable of Electrathe seventh of the Pleiads, who have been reduced to sixsince the time of the Trojan war. That nymph, the 'Seneca's seventh Look of Natural Questions displays, in the theory of comets, aphilosophic miud. Yet should we not too candidly confound a vague prediction,a veniet tempus, &o. with the merit of real discoveries. t Astronomers may study Newton and Halley. I draw my humble science fromthe article Com ftp, in the French Encyclopedic by M. d'Alembert. b Whiston, the honest, pious, visionary Whistnn,bad fancied, for the era of Noah'sfood (two thousand two hundred and forty-two years before Christ), a prior appari­tion of the same comet which drowned the earth with its tail. 1 A dissertation of Freret (Memoires de l'Academie defl Inscriptions, torn. 10. p.357—377.) affords a happy union of philosophy and erudition. The phenomenonin the time of Ogyi;eswas preserved by Varro, (apud Augustin. de Civilate Dei, 31.8.) who quotes Castor, Dion of Naples, and Adrastusof Cyzicus—nnbiles malheaia-tici. The two subsequent periods are preserved by the Greek m vtliologistJ and thaspurious books of Sibylline verses.