OCR Output 254 ROMAN EMPIRE. man, who disguised his strength under the semblanceof modesty. At the head of his victorious legions, inhis reign over the sea and land, from the Nile and Eu­phrates to the Atlantic ocean, Augustus professed him­self the servant of the state and the equal of his fellow-citizens. The conqueror of Rome and her provincesassumed the popular and legal form of a censor, a con­sul, and a tribune. His will was the law of mankind,but in the declaration of his laws he borrowed the voiceof the senate and people; and, from their decrees, theirmaster accepted and renewed his temporary commissionto administer to the republic. In his dress, his domes­tics/ his titles, in all the offices of social life, Augustusmaintained the character of a private Roman: and hismost artful flatterers respected the secret of his abso­lute and perpetual monarchy. CHAP. L. Description of Arabia and its inhabitants.—Birth, character, anddoctrine of Mahomet.—He preaches at Mecca.—Flies to Medina.—Propagates his religion by the sword.—Voluntary or reluctantsubmission of the Arabs.—His death and successors.—Theclaims and fortunes of Ali and his descendants. AFTER pursuing above six hundred years the fleetingCzesars of Constantinople and Germany, I now descend,in the reign of Heraclius, on the eastern borders of theGreek monarchy. While the state was exhausted bythe Persian war, and the church was distracted by theNestorian and Monophysite sects, Mahomet, with thesword in one hand and the Koran in the other, erected 'Six thousand urns have been discovered of the slaves and freedmen of Augus­tus and Livia. So minute was the division of office, that one slave was appointedto weigh the wool which was spun by the empress's maids, another for the care ofher lap-dog, &c. (Camere Sepolchrale. &c. by Bianchini. Extract of his work, inthe Bibliotheque Italique, torn. 4. p. 175. His Eloge, by Fontenelle, torn. 6. p. 356.)But these servants were of the same rank, and possibly not more numerous thanthose of Pollio or Lentulus. They only prove the general riches of the city.