OCR Output WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. came about him not fewer in number than* three millions:these besought him to commiserate the calamities of their na­tion, and cried out upon Floras as the bune of their country.But as he was present, and stood by Cestius, he laughed at theu-words. However Cestius, when he had quieted the multitude,and had assured them, thut he would take care that Florus shouldhereafter treat them in a more gentle manner, returned to An-tioch : Fiorus also conducted him as far as Cesarea, and delud­ed him, though he had at that very time the purpose of shewinghis anger at the nation, and procuring a war upon them, bywhich means alone it was that he supposed he might conceal hisenormities; for heexpectedthat,if the peace continued,he shouldhave the Jews for his accusers before Caesar ; but that if hecould procure them to make a revolt, he should divert theirlaying lesser crimes to his charge, by a misery that was so muchgreater ; he therefore did every day augment their calamities,in order to induce them to a rebellion. 4. Now at this time it happened, that the Grecians at Cesa­rea had been too hard for the Jews, and had obtained of Nerothe government of the city, and had brought the Judicial deter­mination ; at the same time began the war, in the twelfth yearof the reign of Nero, and the seventeenth of the reign of Agrip-pa, in the month of Artemisius [Jyar]. Now the occasion of thiswar was by no means proportionable to those heavy calamitieswhich it brought upon us. For the Jews that dwelt at Cesareahad a synagogue near the place, whose owner was a certain Ce.sareau Greek ; the Jews had endeavoured frequently to havepurchased the possession of the place, and had offered many timesits value for its price; but as the owner overlooked their of­fers, so did he raise other buildings upon the place, in way ofaffront to them, and made working shops of them, and left thembut a narrow passage, and such as was very troublesome forthem to go along to their synagogue. Whereupon the warm­er part of the Jewish youth went hastily to the workmen, andforbade them to build there : but as Florus would not permitthem to use force, the great men of the Jews, with John the pub­lican, being in the utmost distress what to do, persuaded Floi us,with the ofter of eight t-aler.ts, to hinder the work. He then,being intent upon nothing but getting money, promised he woulddo for them all they desired of him, and then went away fromCesarea to Sebaste, and left the sedition to take its full course,as if he hi.d sold a licence to the Jews to fight it out. 5. Now * Heie we may note, that 3,000,000 of the Jews were present at the passover,A. D. 65, which confirms what Josephus elsewhere informs us of, that at a passovera little later, they counted 256,500 paschal lambs, which, at twelve to er'ch lamb,which is no immoderate calculation, come to 3,078,030' See B; VI. chup .9. § 3.