OCR Output 400 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. C. Valerius Potitus, for the third time, Manius Ser-gius Fidenas, P. Cornelius Maluginensis, Cn. CorneliusCossus, C'-ESO Fabius Ambustus, and Sp. Nautius Rutilas<a second time, were elected military tribunes with con­sular power for this year. The Volsci gave them an op­portunity of coming to an action wi-th them, betweeuFerentinum and Ecetra, in which the Romans bad theadvantage; after which, the military tribunes formedthe siege of Artena, a town belonging to the Voisci,where the besieged having attempted a sally, were dri­ven back to the city, with such precipitation, that theRomans had an opportunity of entering with them pellmell, and 'of taking every thing but the castle, intowhich, as it was naturally strong, a body of armed menhad thrown themselves. Under this fortress many wereput to the sword, and many fell into the hands of thevictors. The fort itself was then besieged: but to stormit would have been impracticable, being, for-the extentof the place, sufficiently defended, and there could be nohopes of a surrender, as all the corn in the public maga­zines had been conveyed thither, before the town wastaken, so that at last, the Romans must have been so tir­ed out as to have raised the siege, had not a slave be­trayed the fort into their hands. The soldiers having-been admitted by his means, through a very intricatepassage, took the place, and having put the guards tothe sword, the rest of the garrison were all at once sostruck with terror, that they immediately surrendered atdiscretion. The city and citadel were both demolished,and the legions withdrawn from the Volscian territory,to push on the siege of'Veii, with all the force the Ro­mans could muster. The slave, besides his liberty, had the effects of twofamilies assigned him, as the reward of his treason. Hewas called the Roman Servius. Some think, that this'Artena belonged to the Vejentes, and not tin: Volsci. Acity of the same name, situated between Caere and Veii,leads them into this mistake; but this Artena was 'de­stroyed by the Roman .kings, and besides, was not theproperty of the Vejentes, but of the Caeretes. This otherArtena, the destruction whereof hath been just now de­scribed, lay in the territory of the Volsci.