OCR Output 24 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. War be­tween Mas­sinissa andCarthage. 154. how the existence of that rich commercial city was quitecompatible with the political supremacy of Rome. Even theconversion of Carthage into a Roman provincial town mighthave been practicable, and indeed, compared with the presentcondition of the Phoenicians, perhaps even not unwelcome.But Cato desired not the submission, but the destruction ofthe hated city. His policy, as it would seem, found alliespartly in the statesmen who were inclined to bring thetransmarine territories into immediate dependence on Rome,partly and especially in the mighty influence of the Romanbankers and great capitalists on whom, after the destructionof the rich moneyed and mercantile city, its inheritancewould necessarily devolve. The majority resolved at thefirst fitting opportunity—respect for public opinion requiredthat they should wait for such—to bring about war withCarthage, or rather the destruction of the city. The desired occasion was soon found. The provokingviolations of right on the part of Massinissa and the Romansbrought to the helm in Carthage Hasdrubal and Carthalo,the leaders of the patriotic party; which was not indeed,like the Achaeans, disposed to revolt against the Roman su­premacy, but was at least resolved to defend, if necessary,by arms against Massinissa the stipulated rights of theCarthaginians. The patriots ordered forty of the mostdecided partisans of Massinissa to be banished from thecity, and made the people swear that they would on noaccount ever permit their return; at the same time, inorder to repel the attacks that might be expected fromMassinissa, they formed out of the free Numidians anumerous army under Arcobarzanes, the grandson ofSyphax (about 600). Massinissa, however, was prudentenough not to take arms now, but to submit himself uncon­ditionally to the decision of the Romans respecting thedisputed territory on the Bagradas; and thus the Romanscould assert with some plausibility that the Carthaginianpreparations must have been directed against them, andcould insist on the immediate dismissal of the army anddestruction of the naval stores. The Carthaginian senatewas disposed to consent, but the multitude prevented theexecution of the decree, and the Roman envoys, who hadbrought this order to Carthage, were in peril of their lives.Massinissa sent his son Gulussa to Rome to report the con­tinuance of the Carthaginian warlike preparations by land