OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 53 Nevertheless they did not escape the jealousy and suspicionof Rome. In possession of the European shore of the Pro-pontis, of the west coast of Asia Minor, and of the interioras far as the Cappadocian and Cilician frontiers; and closelyconnected with the Syrian kings, one of whom, AntiochusEpiphanes (+590), had ascended the throne by the aid of 16+.the Attalids; king Eumenes II. had by his power, whichseemed still more considerable from the more and moredeep decline of Macedonia and Syria, instilled apprehensionin the minds even of its founders. We have already related(ii. 304) how the senate sought to humble and weaken thisally after the third Macedonian war by unbecoming diploma­tic artifices. The relations—perplexing from the very natureof the case—of the rulers of Pergamus towards the wholly orhalf free commercial cities within their kingdom, and towardstheir barbarous neighbours on its borders, became compli­cated still more painfully by this ill humour on the part oftheir patrons. As it was not clear whether, according tothe treaty of peace in 565, the heights of the Taurus in -89.Pamphylia and Pisidia belonged to the kingdom of Syria or tothat of Pergamus, the brave Selgians, nominally recognizing,as it would seem, the Syrian supremacy, made a prolongedand energetic resistance to Eumenes II. and Attalus II. inthe almost inaccessible mountains of Pisidia. The AsiaticCelts also, who for a time with the permission of theRomans had yielded allegiance to Pergamus, revolted fromEumenes and, in concert with Prusias king of Bithynia thehereditary enemy of the Attalids, suddenly began waragainst him about 587. The king had had no time to hire 107-mercenary troops; all his skill and valour could not preventthe Celts from defeating the Asiatic militia and overrunninghis territory; the peculiar mediation, to which the Romanscondescended at the request of Eumenes, has already beenmentioned (ii. 305). But, as soon as he had found timewith the help of his well-filled exchequer to raise an armycapable of taking the field, he speedily drove the wild hordesover the frontier; and, although Galatia remained lost tohim, and his obstinately continued attempts to maintain hisfooting there were frustrated by Roman influence,* he yet, * Several letters recently brought to light (Miinchener Sitzungsberichte, 1860,p. ISO et seq.) from the kings Eumenes II. and Attalus II. to the priest of Pessinus,who was uniformly called Attis (comp. I'olyb. xxii. 20), very clearly illustratethese relations. The earliest of these and the only one with a date, written in