OCR Output DECLINE AND Fa£l [CHAP. XLVI. the prelude of a fierce and general persecution. By theoppressive laws of Justinian, the adversaries of the churchwere made the enemies of the state; the alliance of theJews, Nestorians, and Jacobites, had contributed to thesuccess of Chosroes, and his partial favour to the secta­ries provoked the hatred and fears of the Catholic clergy.Conscious of their fear and hatred, the Persian conque­ror governed his new subjects wiith an iron sceptre ; andas if he 6uspected the stability of his dominion, he ex­hausted their wealth by exorbitant tributes and licentiousrapine, despoiled or demolished the temples of the east,and transported to his hereditary realms the gold, thesilver, the precious marbles, the arts, and the artists ofthe Asiatic cities. In the obscure picture of the cala­mities of the empire,9 it is not easy to discern the figureof Chosroes himself, to separte his actions from thoseof his lieutenants, or to ascertain his personal merit inthe general blaze of glory and magnificence. He en­joyed with ostentation the fruits of victory,, and fre­quently retired from the hardships of war to the luxuryof the palace. But in the space of twenty-four years,he was deterred by superstition or resentment from ap­proaching the gates of Ctesiphon: and his favouriteresidence of Artemita, or Dastagerd, was situate beyondthe Tigris, about sixty miles to the north of the capital.'The adjacent pastures were covered with flocks andherds: the paradise or park was replenished with phea­sants, peacocks, ostriches, roebucks, and wild boars, andthe noble game of lions and tigers was sometimes turnedloose for the bolder pleasures of the chase. Nine hun­dred and sixty elephants were maintained for the use orsplendour of the great king: his tents and baggages werecarried into the field by twelve thousand great camels and (Lives of the Saints, vol. 1. p. 242—248.) have taken their accounts. The holymartyr deserted from the Persian to the Roman army, became a monk at Jerusalem,and insulted the worship of the Magi, which was then established at Cscsarea iuPalestine. * Abulpharagins, Dynast. p. 99. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen. p. 14. 'D'Aaville, Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, tom. 32. p. 568—571.