OCR Output TH£ HISTORY BOOK lero to the tribunefhip; and the patricians, judging^J/l . that tliis bufinefs would not end without the feverefty. R.*8j. ftruggle, procured the confulfhip for Appius Clau-H.C. 469. dius, fon of Appius, who both hated, and was hatedby the commons, in confequence of the contentionsbetween them and his father. Thus Quintius wasgiven him for colleague. The law was the firftbufinefs agitated in the beginning of the year; andthough Volero was the inventor of the plan, yetLaetorius his colleague, as he joined in it later, fowas he the more eager in promoting it: his renownin war infpired him with confidence, for there wasno one of that age poffefied of more pcrfonal prow-efs. Volero contented himfelf with arguing in fa­vour of the law, and avoided all abufe againft theconfuls; but Laetorius began with fevere invectivesagainft Appius and his family, charging them withhaving always fhewn a difpofition in the higheft de­gree overbearing and cruel towards the commons:afierting, that the patricians had elected him not fora conful, but an executioner, to torment and torturethe plebeians: being however a rough foldier, un-fkilled in the art of ipeaking, he was at a lofs forexpreffions fuited to the unreftrained freedom andboldnels of his thoughts; and finding himlelf unableto proceed in his difcourfe, he faid, " Citizens, fincc"I cannot fpeak with the fame readinefs with which."I can perform what I have fpoken, I requeft your'c attendance to-morrow. Fither I will lofe my life,"here in your prefence, or I will carrv the law."Next day the tribunes took pofieflion of the tem­ple; and the confuls and nobles placed themfelvesamong the crowd, in. order to oppofe the law : Lae..torius ordered all perfons to retire, except thofe who•were to vote; but the younger nobility kept theirplaces, and paid no regard to the officer; on which,Laetorius ordered fom£ of them to be taken intocuftody. The conful Appius infifted, that " a tri-*' bune had no authority over any but the plebei- <c ansj