OCR Output 1302 VIA LATIXA. VIA LATIKA. natural lines of communication that must have beenin use from the earliest times. But it is not pro­bable th.it the line of the Via Latina was completedas a regular road till after the complete reductionof botli the Latins mid Voiscians under the Romanauthority. It is true that Livy speaks of the ViaLatina as if it already existed in the time of Corio-lanus (ii. 39), but he in fact uses the name only asa ce"grapliieal description, both in this passage andapain in the history B.C. 296, when he speaks ofInteramna as a colony " quae via Latina est" (x. 36).Neither passage affords any proof that the rr*ad wasthen in existence; though there is no doubt that therewas already a way or line of communication. Thecourse of the Via Latina is, indeed, more natural forsuch a line of way than that of the more celebratedVia Appia, and must have offered less difficultiesbefore the construction cf nn artificial road. Nordid it present any such formidable passes in a mili­tary point of view as that of Laatulae on the Ap-pian Way, for which reason it w;is the route chosenboth by Pyrrhus when he advanced towards Homein it. c. 280, and by Hannibal in B. c. 211.(Liv. xxvi. 8, 9.) On the latter occasion the Car­thaginian general seems certainly to have followedthe true Via Latina across Mount Algid03 and byTusculum (Liv. L o.) ; Pyrrhus, on the contrary,turned aside from it as he approached Praeneste,which was the farthest point that he reached in hisadvance towards Rome, Whatever may have been the date of the construc­tion of the Via Latina, it is certain that long beforethe close of the Republic it was one of the bestknown and most frequented highways in Italy.Strain) speaks of it as one of the most important ofthe many roads that issued from the gates of Rome(v. p. 237), and takes it as one of the leading andmost familiar lines of demarcation in describing thecities of Latium. (Ib.) It was, however, in onerespect very inferior to its neighbour the Via Appia,that it was not capable of any considerable extension,but terminated at Casilinum, where it joined theVia Appia. (St rah. /. c.) There was, indeed, abranch road that was continued from Teanuin byAllit'.ie and Telesia to Beneventum; but though thisis given in the Itineraries in connection with the ViaLatina (//in. Ant. pp. 122,304), it certainly wasnot generally considered as forming a part of thatroad, and was merely a cross line from it to theAppian. On the other hand, the main line of theVia Latina, which descended the valley of the Sacco,received on its way the two subordinate lines of roadcalled the Via Labicana and Via Praenestina,which issued from Rome by a different gate, butboth ultimately joined the Via Latina, and becamemerged in it. (Strab. I.e.) Such at least is Strabo'sstatement, and doubtless was the ordinary view ofthe case in his time. Hut it would seem as if at alater period tiie Via Labicana came to be the morefrequented road of the two, so that the Antonineitinerary represents the Via Latina as joining theLabicaua, instead of the converse. (Itin. Ant. p.30G.) The stations, as given in the Itinerary just cited,arc as follow;— Ad Decimum - - - x. M. p.Koboraria - iii. (vi.) Ad Pictas - xvii.Compitum Anagninum - xv.Kerentinnm (Ferentino) - viii.Friisino (Frosinoru) - - vii. Fregellar.um (Ceprano) - xrv. n*.Fabrateria (5. Giovanni in Cnrico) - - - iii. Aquinum (Agvino) - - viii. Casinum (5. Germane) - vii.' Tearmm (Teano) - - xxriL Cales (Calri) ~ - vi. Casilinum (Capnua) - - til. Capua (Sta Ataria) - - m. (The four last stages are fu^piied fne? &+Tabula. The Antonine Itinerary pves ocJybranch of the road that led, as abore naxni- :jBeneventum.) It will be observed that, in it» rnr*.as above set down, from R^me to F<TCt5ithe Via Latina did not pass through ar^ tow- •<importance, the stations given being m*re M^i-tiones, or places for changing borves. B-x naccount of the importance of this line rf read. £will be necessary to describe it somewhat s>tv tadetail. The Via Latina issued from the Porta C»te*a to­gether witli the Via Appia. It was not tul airehalf-way between that gate and the later FAppia (Porta di S. Stbastiano), that the tworated, and the Via Latina pursued its own cjl?*through the gate in the walls of AurelisE thax de­rived from it the name of Porta Latinau Frrr ti»gate (now long closed) to a point 2 miles fnzr 'jjPorta Latina, where it crosses the nxderr r*: ~"Koine to A Ibano, the line of the ancient road as*?"readily traced by portions of the pavemect, and tzjiof sepulchres, with which the Latin Way. as well a*raeFlatninian and Appian (Juv. Sat. i. 171), was iff «d.From that point the road may be seen proceeding 21perfectly straight line, which is marked from hs:cr*to distance by tombs and other mias, to tfct &•< rfthe Tusculan hills. The only one of them nzmwhich deserve* any notice is that crimmccJy caj^dthe temple of Fort una Muliebris, which is in ma^rya sepulchre of imperial times. About 9 rraVs r-*^the Porta Capena is a farm or hamlet aHairena, near which are the extensive remain* «i aRoman villa, supposed to be that of Laci_ s*: a.about a mile farther must be placed the star**Decimum, the 10 miles being undoubtedly recira*from the Porta Capena. Almost immediate fnothis point began the ascent of the TusroiaB LTi»road still preserved nearly its former direct**, kw-ing Grotta Fzrrata on the richt, and the crta*o &Tusculum on the left; it then passed, as it *scribed by Strain (v. p. 237), be;w?«i Tuseuaand the Alban Mount, following the lice ef a w*»valley or depression between them, till it rt**4*itS»foot of Mount Algidus, and, passing thrsora a txiof notch in the ridge of that mountain, at a &called La Cava, descended to the stati-m Ai Pica*in the plain below. The course of the anaret rmJmay be distinctly traced by remains of t!i*ment still visible at intervals ; the sec-»d o-c.It.iboraria (if the distance of six inJes grvw «some MSS. be correct), must have sy>\i re*the ruins of a mediaeval castle ailed J/Thence to Ad Pictas the distance is cusk <17 miles, which is certainly greatly aiKw* th- trsnIt was at this station that the Via L*bicmathe Latina; and from this cirramstaiice. rsr"?i"^with the distances given thence t^ FTOtcsTXwe may place the site of Ad Pictas *«TDrj»^rTthe Ostrrin dS Afrzza Stlra, about 10 mSm WrraiKoboraria. Strabo calls it 210 *ta-fca