OCR Output 3f 2 WAKS OF THE Jf WS. Book 1. obliging manner, he dismissed the multitude; some of whichgave their assent to what he had said, and wished it might takeeffect accordingly} but for those who wished for a change ofaffairs, they pretended they did not so much as hear what hesaid. CHAP. XXIV. The mahce of Antipater and Doris. Alexander is very uneasyon Glaphyrd's account. Herod pardons Pberoras whom hesuspected, and Salome, vihom be knew to make mischief amongthem. Herod's eunuchs are tortured, and Alexander is bound. j 1. TQUT now the quarrel that was. between them, still ac--L' companied these brethren when they parted, and thesuspicions they had one of the other grew worse. Alexanderand Aristobulus were much grieved that the privilege of thefirst-born was confirmed to Antipater; as was Antipater veryangry at his brethren, that they were to succeed him. But thenthis last being of a disposition that was mutable and politic, hel:-iev.' how to hold his tongue, and used a great deal of cunning,and thereby concealed the hatred he bore to them; while theformer, depending on the nobility of their births, had el-erything upon their tongues which was in their minds. Many alsothere nvere who provoked them farther, and many of their[seeming] friends insinuated themselves into their acquaintance,to spy out what they did. Now every thing that was said byAlexander was presently brought to Antipater, and from Anti足pater it was brought to Herod with additions. Nor could theyoung man say any thing in the simplicity of his heart, with足out giving offence, but what he said was still turned to calumnyagainst him. And if he had been at any time a little free in hisconversation, great imputations were forged from the smallestoccasions. Antipater also was perpetually setting some to pro足voke him to speak, that the lies he raised of him might seem tohave some foundation of truth; and if, among the many storiesthat were given out, but one of them could be proved true, thatwas supposed to imply the rest to be true also. And as to An-tipater's friends, they were all either naturally so cautious inspeaking, or had been so far bribed to conceal their thoughts,that nothing of these grand secrets got abroad by their means.Nor should one be mistaken if he called the life of Antipater amystery of wickedness; for he either corrupted Alexander's ac足quaintance with money, or got into their favour by flatteries;by which two means he gained all his designs, and brought themto betray their master, and to steal away, and reveal what heeither did or said. Thus did he act a part very cunningly in all points,