OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 135 41. Fabius, in consideration of his extraordinarymerit in the conquest of Etruria, was re-elected intothe consulship. [A.U.C. 445. B.C. 307.] Decius wasappointed his colleague. Valerius was created pretora fourth time. The consuls divided the provinces be­tween them. Etruria fell to Decius ; Samnium to Fa-bins. The latter, having marched to Nuceria, rejectedthe application of the people of Alfaterna, who thensued for peace, because they had not accepted it whenoffered, and by force of arms compelled them to sur­render. A battle was fought with the Samnites, whowere overcome without much difficulty: nor would thememory of that engagement have been preserved, ex­cept that in it the Marsians first appeared in armsagainst the Romans. The defection of the Marsianswas followed by that of the Pelignians, who met thesame fate. The other consul, Decius, was likewisevery successful in his operations : through the terrorwith which he inspired the Tarquinians, he compelledthem to supply his army with corn, and to sue for atruce for forty years. He took several forts from theVolsinians by assault; some of which he demolished,that they might not serve as receptacles to the enemy;and, by extending his operations through every quar­ter, diffused such a dread of ljis arms, that the wholeEtrurian nation sued to him for an alliance: this theydid not obtain; but a truce for a year was grantedthem. The pay of the Roman army for that year wasfurnished by the enemy; and two tunics for each sol­dier were exacted from them : this was the purchaseof the truce. The tranquillity now established in Etru­ria was interrupted by a sudden insurrection of theUmbrians, a nation which had suffered no injury fromthe war, except what inconvenience the country hadfelt in the passing of the army. These, by calling intothe field all their young men, and forcing a great partof the Etrurians to resume their arms, made up such anumerous force, that speaking of themselves with os­tentatious vanity, and of the Romans with contempt,they boasted that they would leave Decius behind in