OCR Output 120 ROMAN EMPIRE. in the hippodrome; and as these dreadful examplesmight be the effects of error or caprice, they must havealienated from his service the best and wisest of the ci­tizens. But the pride of the monarch was flattered inthe exercise of power, or, as he thought, of virtue; andthe people, safe in their obscurity, applauded the dan­ger and debasement of their superiors. This extraordi­nary rigour was justified, in some measure, by its salu­tary consequences; since, after a scrutiny of seventeendays, not a complaint or abuse could be found in thecourt or city; and it might be alleged that the Greekscould be ruled only with a rod of iron, and that thepublic interest is the motive and law of the supremejudge. Yet in the crime, or the suspicion, of treason,that judge is of all others the most credulous and par­tial. Theophilus might inflict a tardy vengeance onthe assassins of Leo and the saviours of his father; buthe enjoyed the fruits of their crime; and his jealous ty­ranny sacrificed a brother and a prince to the futuresafety of his life. A Persian of the race of the Sassa-nides died in poverty and exile at Constantinople, leav­ing an only son, the issue of a plebeian marriage. Atthe age of twelve years, the royal birth of Theophobuswas revealed, and his merit was not unworthy of hisbirth. He was educated in the Byzantine palace, aChristian and a soldier; advanced with rapid steps inthe career of fortune and glory; received the hand ofthe emperor's sister; and was promoted to the commandof thirty thousand Perians, who, like his father, had fledfrom the Mahometan conquerors. These troops, doublyinfected with mercenary and fanatic vices, were desirousof revolting against their benefactor, and erecting thestandard of their native king: but the royal Theophobusrejected their offers, disconcerted their schemes, and es­caped from their hands to the camp or palace of his royalbrother. A generous confidence might have secured afaithful and able guardian for his wife and his infantson, to whom Theophilus, in the flower of his age, was