OCR Output j5g THE DECLINE AND FALL Seditions of The Prætorian guards were attached to the youth of Alexander. the Piætorian m , 1 j - ■ e guard?, and They loved him as a tender pupil, whom they had saved fromu°pfan.°f * tyrant's fury, and placed on the Imperial throne. That amiableprince was sensible of the obligation, but as his gratitude was re­strained within the limits of reason and justice, they soon weremore dissatisfied with the virtues of Alexander, than they hadever been with the vices of Elagabalus. Their præfect, the wifeUlpian, was the friend of the laws and of the people; he wasconsidered as the enemy of the soldiers, and to his perniciouscouncils every scheme of reformation was imputed. Some triflingaccident blew up their discontent into a furious mutiny; and acivil war raged, during three days, in Rome, whilst the life of thatexcellent minister was defended by the grateful people. Terrified,at length by the sight of some houses in flames, and by the threatsof a general conflagration, the people yielded with a sigh, and leftthe virtuous, but unfortunate Ulpian to his fate. He was pursuedinto the Imperial palace, and massacred at the feet of his master,who vainly strove to cover him with the purple, and to obtain hispardon from the inexorable soldiers. Such was the deplorableweakness of government, that the emperor was unable to revengehis murdered friend and his insulted dignity, without stooping tothe arts of patience and dissimulation. Epagathus, the principalleader of the mutiny, was removed from Rome, by the honourableemployment of præfect of Egypt; from that high rank he wasgently degraded to the government of Crete; and when, at length,his popularity among the guards, was effaced by time and ab­sence, Alexander ventured to inflict the tardy, but deserved punish­ment of his crimes 7+. Under the reign of a just and virtuousprince, the tyranny of the army threatened with instant deathhis most faithful ministers, who were suspected of an intention to, correct their intolerable disorders. The historian Dion Cassius had Ditigcr ot Dion Caflius. commanded the Pannonian legions with the spirit of ancient dis­cipline.