OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 207 the decrees of the senate and people successively in­vested Charles Martel and his posterity with the honoursof patrician of Rome. The leaders of a powerful nationwould have disdained a servile title and subordinateoffice; but the reign of the Greek emperors was sus­pended; and, in the vacancy of the empire, they deriveda more glorious commission from the pope and therepublic. The Roman ambassadors presented thesepatricians with the keys of the shrine of St. Peter, as apledge and symbol of sovereignty; with a holy banner,which it was their right and duty to unfurl in the de­fence of the church and city.* In the time of CharlesMartel and of Pepin, the interposition of the Lombardkingdom covered the freedom, while it threatened thesafety, of Rome; and the patriciate represented onlythe title, the service, the alliance, of these distant pro­tectors. The power and policy of Charlemagne anni­hilated an enemy, and imposed a master. In his firstvisit to the capital, he was received with all the honourswhich had formerly been paid to the exarch, the repre­sentative of the emperor: and these honours obtainedsome new decorations from the joy and gratitude ofPope Hadrian I." No sooner was he informed of thesudden approach of the monarch, than he dispatchedthe magistrates and nobles of Rome to meet him, withthe banner, about thirty miles from the city. At thedistance of one mile, the Flaminian way was lined withthe schools or national communities, of Greeks, Lom­bards, Saxons, &c.: the Roman youth were under arms;and the children of a more tender age, with palms andolive branches in their hands, chanted the praises of 'The papal advocates can soften the symbolic meaning of the banner and thekeys; bat the style of ad rtgnum dimisimus,oidirezimus, (Codex. Carolin, epist. 1.torn. 3. pars 2. p. 76.) seems to allow of no palliation or escape. In the MS.of the Vienna library, they read, instead of regnwn, rogum, prayer or request (seeDucange); and the royalty of Charles Martel is subverted by this important cor­rection. (Catalini, in his Critical Prefaces, Annali d'ltalia, torn. 17. p. 95—99.) 0 In the authentic narrative of this reception, the Liber Pontificals observes—obviam illi > jus sanctitas dirigens venerabiles cruces, id est signa; sicut, mos est adexarcham.autpatriciumsuscipiendum, eum cum ingentihonoresuscipi fecit, (torn.3.para 1. p. 185.)