OCR Output 98 livv. 8. Philip was filled with grief and vexation when hefound that, although he had, on all occasions, madethe most spirited and speedy exertions, yet fortunehad haffled his activity, by snatching away every ad­vantage when he had it within his view. In the as­sembly, however, concealing his chagrin, he spokewith great confidence, appealing to gods and men, that'at no time or place had he ever been remiss; thatwherever the sound of the enemy's arms was heard,thither he had instantly repaired; but that it couldhardly be determined whether, in the management ofthe war, his forwardness or the enemy's cowardice wasmore conspicuous; in such a dastardly manner hadAttains slipped out of his hands from Opus; Sulpiciusfrom Chalcis; and in the same way within these fewdays, Machanidas. That flight however did not al­ways succeed; and that a war should not be accounteddifficult, in which victory would be certain if the foecould be brought to a regular engagement. One ad­vantage, however, and that of the first magnitude, hehad already acquired—the confession of the enemythemselves that they were not a match for him; andin a short time,' he said, ' he should have to boast ofundoubted conquest; for whenever the enemy wouldmeet him in the field, they should find the issue nobetter than they seemed to expect.' This discourse ofthe king was received by the allies with great plea­sure. He then gave up to the Achaeans Heraea andTriphylia. Aliphera he restored to the Megalopoli-tans, they having produced sufficient evidence that itbelonged to their territories. Having received somevessels from the Achaeans, three galleys of four, andthree of two banks of oars, he sailed to Anticyra;from thence, with seven ships of five banks, and abovetwenty barks, which he had sent to the bay of Corinthto join the Carthaginian fleet, he proceeded to Erythrae,a town of the jEtolians near Eupalium, and theremade a descent. He was not unobserved by the Mio-lians; for all who were either in the fields, or in theneighboring forts of Apollonia and Potidania, fled to