OCR Output AN. 84.] 491 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Adida: yet did he upon certain conditionsretire out of Judea. But Alexander *marchcd again to thetcity Dios, and took it; and then made anexpedition against Es3a, where was the bestpart of Zeno's treasures: and there he encom­passed the place with three walls. And whenhe had taken the city he marched to Golan,and Seleucia. And when he had reducedthem, he took that valley which is called thevalley of Antiochus; as also the fortress Ga-mala. He also accused Demetrius, who wasgovernor of those places, of many crimes;and turned him out. And after he had spentthree years in this war, he returned to hisown country: when the Jews joyfully re­ceived him, upon this his good success. At this time the Jews were in possession ofthe following cities that had belonged to theSyrians, Idumeans, and Phoenicians. At thesea side Strato's Tower, A po I Ionia, Joppa,Jamnia, Ashdod, Gaza, Anthedon, Raphia,and Rhinocolura. In the middle of thecountry near to Idumea, Adera, and Ma-rissa; near the country of Samaria, mountCarmel, and mount Tabor, Scythopolis, andGadara. Of the country of Gaulonitis, Se­leucia, and Gabala. In the country of Moab,Heshbon, and Medaba, Lemba, and Oronas,Gelithon, Zara, the valley of the Cilices, andPella. The last of these they utterly de­stroyed; because its inhabitants would notbear to Jchange their religious rites for thosepeculiar to the Jews. The Jews also pos­sessed others of the principal cities of Syria,which had been destroyed. After this, king Alexander, although he fellinto a distemper by hard drinking, and hada quartan ague, which held him three years,yet would not leave off going out with hisarmy, till he was quite exhausted with thelabours he had undergone, and died in thebounds of ||Ragaba, a fortress beyond Jor­dan. But when his queen saw that he was and at Damascus; as we learn from Josephus in manyplaces; and from St. Paul, 2 Cor. xi. 32. See the Noteon XVI. 9. * An. 84 B. C. t See Book XIV. chap. 1. j We may here take notice, that whatever countriesor cities the Asmoneans conquered from any of the neigh­bouring nations; or whatsoever countries or cities theygained from them, that had not belonged to them before;they, after the days of Hyrcanus, compelled the inhabi- VOL. I.—NOS. 41 & 42. ready to die, and had no longer any hopesof surviving, she came to him weeping, andlamenting; and bewailed herself and hersons, on the desolate condition they shouldbe left in: and said to him, "To whom dost thou thus leave me, andmy children: who are destitute of all othersupports; and this when thou knowest howmuch ill will thy nation bears thee?" He replied, that she need but follow whathe would suggest to her, in order to retainthe kingdom securely, with her children.That she should conceal his death from thesoldiers, till she should have taken that place;that after this she should go in triumph, asupon a victory, to Jerusalem; and put someof her authority into the hands of the Phari­sees: for that they would commend her forthe honour she had done them; and wouldreconcile the nation to her. For he told her,that they had great authority among the Jews,both to do hurt to such as they hated, and tobring advantages to those to whom they werefriendly disposed. For that they are thenbelieved best of all by the multitude, whenthey speak any severe thing against others:though it be only out of envy at them. Andhe said, that it was by their means that hehad incurred the displeasure of the nation,whom indeed he had injured. "Do thou,therefore," said he, "when thou art come toJerusalem, send for the leading men amongIhem, and shew them my body: and, withgreat appearance of sincerity, give themleave to use it as they please: whether theywill dishonour me by refusing it burial, ashaving severely suffered by my means; orwhether, in their anger, they will offer anyother injury to that body. Promise themalso, that thou wilt do nothing without them,in the affairs of the kingdom. If thou dostbut act thus, I shall have the honour of amore sumptuous funeral from them than thoucouldest have made for me: and when it is tants to leave their idolatry, and to receive the law ofMoses, as proselytes of justice; or else banished theminto other lands. That excellent prince, John Hyrcanus,did it to the Idumeans, as I have noted on chap. 9, al­ready, who lived then in the promised land; and this Isuppose justly: but by what right the rest did it, even tocountries or cities that were no part of that land, 1 do notknow. This looks too like unjust persecution for religion'II Or Argob. . - , . . j 41