OCR Output 114 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL children, were in danger of perishing: the occasion whereof weshall declare in a little time, for it is proper, in the first place,to explain somewhat relating to this king, and how he came tomarry a Jewish wife, who was herself of the royal family also,and who is related to have saved our nation; for when Artax-erxes had taken the kingdom, and had set governors over thehundred and twenty and seven provinces, from India even untoEthiopia, in the third year of his reign, he made a costly feastfor his friends, and for the nations of Persia, and for theirgovernors, such an one as was proper for a king to make, whenhe had a mind to make a public demonstration of his riches, andthis for a hundred and fourscore days; after which he made afeast for other nations, and for their ambassadors at Shushan,for seven days. Now this feast was ordered after the mannerfollowing: he caused a tent to be pitched, which was supportedby pillars of gold and silver, with curtains of linen and purplespread over them, that it might afford room for many ten thou­sands to sit down. The cups with which the waiters ministeredwere of gold, and adorned with precious stones, for pleasure, andfor sight. He also gave order to the servants that they should- not force them to drink, by bringing them wine continually, asis the practice of the Persians, but to permit every one of theguests to enjoy himself according to his own inclination.Moreover, he sent messengers through the country, and gave or­der that they should have a remission of their labours, and shouldkeep a festival many days, on account of his kingdom. In likemanner, did Vashti the queen gather her guests together, andmade them a feast in the palace. Now the king was desirousto show her, who exceeded all other women in beauty, to thosethat feasted with him, and he sent some to command her to cometo his feast. But she out of regard to the laws of the Persians,which * forbid the wives to be seen by strangers, did not go tothe king; and though he oftentimes sent the eunuchs to her, shedid nevertheless stay away, and refused to come, till the kingwas so much irritated, that he broke up the entertainment, and * If the Cbaldee paraphrase be in the right, that Artaxerxes intended to showVashti to his guests naked, it is no wonder at all that she would not submit to suchan indignity ; but still if it were not so gross as that, yet it might, in the king's cups,be done in a way so indecent, as the Persian laws would not then bear, no more thanthe common laws of modesty. And that the king had some such design, seems Hotimprobable, for otherwise the principal of these royal guests could be no strangers tothe queen, nor unapprized of h«r beauty, so far as decency admitted. However,«ince Providence was now paving the way for the introduction of a Jewess into theking's affections, in order to bring about one of the most wonderful deliveranceswhich the Jewish or any nation ever had, we need not be farther solicitous aboutthe motives by which the king was induced to divorce V;ishti, and marry Esther.