OCR Output 824 KOMA. transaction is clear and graphic, and the best guideto the topography of the neighbourhood. The apedmonarch had reached the top of the Vicus Cyprius(*'ad summuin Cyprium vicum") when he wasovertaken and slain. His daughter followed in hercarriage, and, having arrived at the same spot wherestood a temple of Diana a little before the time whenLivy wrote, she was just turning to the right in orderto ascend the Clivus Urdu s, which led to thesummit of the Ksquiline, when the affrighted driverreined his horses, and pointed out to Tullia thebleeding corpse of her murdered father; but thefiend-like Tullia bade him drive on, and arrived athome bespattered with the blood of her parent.From this unnatural deed the street which was thescene of it obtained the name of Vicus Sceleratus(i. 48). The question that has been sometimes raisedwhether Tullia was returning to her father's or totier husband's house, does not seem to be of muchimportance. Solinus, indeed (i. 25), represents Ser-vius Tullius as residing "supra clivuin Urbium,"and Tarquinius Superbus, also on the Esquiline, but,"Supra clivuin Pullium ad Fagutalem lucum." Thehouse of the latter therefore must have been uponthe Oppius, on which the Lucus Fagu talis was situ­ated, and moat probably upon the southern side of it;but he may not have resided here till after he becameking. On the other hand, as Tullia is representedas turning to the right in order to ascend the ClivusUrbioa to the royal residence, it is plain that theVicus Cyprius must have lain on the north side ofone of the tongues of the Esquiline ; and as we arefurther informed by Dionysius, in a passage beforequoted (iii. 22), that there was a lane which leddown from the Oarinae, or western extremity of theOppius, to the Vicus Cyprius, the conclusion isforced upon us that the palace of Serving Tulliusmust have been situated upon the eastern part ofthe northern side of the Oppius, and that conse­quently the Vicus Cyprius must have correspondedwith the modern Via di S. Lucia in Selci. TheSummus Cyprius Vicus was evidently towards thehead of the valley, the lower part of the street run­ning under the Carinae; and hence the ClivusUrbius and the residence of Sen-ins may be placedsomewhere near the church of S. Martina. Beforethe usurpation of Tarquin, he and his wife may haveresided near his father-in-law, or even under thegame roof; or, what is still more probable, Tullia, asOvid represents her patrios initura Penates," Fast.vi. 60*2), was proceeding to take possession of herfather's palace, since his dejtosition had been effectedin the senate before his murder. Urlichs (Horn.Topogr. p. 119) admits that the Vicus Cypriusanswered to the Via di S. Lucia, yet holds thatServius resided on the Cispius; a view utterly ir­reconcilable with the fact that the Clivus Orbingand palace lay on the right of that street. Thepassages before adduced prove the direction of theVicus Cyprius as clearly as any locality in Koinecan be proved which depends for its determinationsolely on notices in the classics. Yet Becker shutshis eyes to this satisfactory evidence, and maintainsthat the Vicus Cyprius corresponded with themodern Via del Colusseo {Anttcort, p. 78); althoughin that case also it would have l>eeii impossible forTullia to have ascended the Esquiline by turning tothe right. The only ground he assigns for this in­comprehensible view is an arbitrary estimate of thedistances between the objects mentioned in Regio IV.of the NoHtittj founded also on the assumption that these objects are enumerated strictly is the enkr awhich they actually followed one another. Boi ■»have already shown from Becker himself thattaaaby no means always the case, and it is endattiT a*so in the present instance; since, after tneataBBfthe Tigillium Sororium, which lay in er nearSubura, the order of the catalogue 1mmand proceeds onwards to the Coloaanuo,again at the end of tlie list revert* to theThe chief objection to placing the Was Cyaa»under this side of the Oppius is, at Mr. Baceafobserves {Class. Mus. vol. v. p. 247), that it »a4thus seein to interfere with the Sobanu Bat lUiobjection is not urged either by Becker or I'rataejand indeed the Subura, like the Yelabrum, srtmmhave been a district rather than a street. *> Uatvflmay conceive the Vicus Cyprius to have run t*na|%it. The position of the Tigillum Soitoaim a mtermined by what has been already said; sanri*,ila narrow street leading down from the Carinae a ■Vicus Cyprius. It seems to hate been a vaMbeam erected across the street. As it * aeaMBin the Xotitia, this monument, connected wtfialof Rome's early legends, must have existed mmto the 5th century; and indeed Livy (i. 26) aius that it was constantly repaired at the mmexpense. We learn from Dionysins (io. 22) MFestus (p. 297, Mull.) that on each side of rfaflan altar; one to Juno Sororia, the other to JaajCuRlATIUS. Having had occasion to mention the Suaraflmay be as well to describe that celebrated baabefore proceeding further with the topega^Hthe Esquiline. We have already seen fn» aathat it was one of the most ancient dtsrrioalHome; and its importance may be iutored ftaflhaving given name to the 1st Servian Repam, 1have also alluded to a passage in the aaaa mm(L.L. v. § 48. Mull.) which shows it to tanejoriginally a distinct village, called SoccsaaoralSuccusanns, lying under the Carinae. Vane 4that the name still continued to be written *4kinstead of a B; a statement which it corawaithe fact that in inscriptions the Tribes Saais always denoted by the abridged form tu*>i(Cf. Festus, s. r. Subura, p. 309, Hail. . QiJust. Or. i. 7. § 29; Mummsen. Dm Hp. 79, seq.) A piazza or place under the cbaalS. Pietro in Vincoli still bears the namet/Jriland the church of 5. A gala over the TiaenpetUi, which skirts the eastern foot of tbehill, bore in the middle ages the same rflSoburra" or '* super Subnrra." H- nre it aiprobable that the Subura onupied the whofcflvalley formed by the extremities of" the QrifViminal,and Esquiline, and must cir«sr«^«£cV4been, not a street but, a region of Mane naiindeed we find it called by Gregorr the Galthe 6th century ("in region* nrbts ilia qaaeaqdicitur." DiaL iii. c 30). Rut that il i i "nutriaword as far as the Forum Trans it on una. tajtion which seems to rest solely on the enhrathe names in the 4th Region of the A*ocaoa\aihardly conceive. We hare shown that taeaabetween the back of the imperial form and tbeaaextremity of the Ksquiline may perhapa ttawMpart of the Carinae; bat it can hardlv heaa]called both Carinae and Subura. The attar a!to have properly begnn at the |rinalis approaches the e; • point