OCR Output :35G PATAVISSA. PATAVIUM. the eastward of the river Xanthus, and consist " of atheatre excavated in tlie northern side of a smallhill, a ruined temple on the side of the same hill, Iand a deep circular pit, of (lingular appearance,which may have been the seat of the oracle. Thetown walls surrounded an area of considerable ex­tent; they may easily be traced, as well as the jsituation of a castle which commanded the harbour,'and of several towers which flanked the walls. Onthe outside of the walls there is a multitude of stone isarcophagi, most of (hem bearing inscriptions, hut Ial« open and empty; and within the walls, temples,altars, pedestals, and fragment*) of sculpture appear iin profusion, but ruined and mutilated. The situationof the harbour is st ill apparent, but at present it isa swatnp, choked up with sand and bushes." (Beau­fort, Karmania, pp. *J, 6.) The theatre, of whicha plan is given in Leake's Asia Minor (p. -'120),was built in the reign of Antoninus Pius; itsdiameter is 26j feet, and has about 30 rows ofseats. There are also ruins of thermae, which, ac­cording to an inscription upon them, were built byVespasian. (Comp. Sir C. Fellows, Tour in AsiaMm. p. 222, fnll.; Diseav. in Lycia, p. 179, foil.;Texier, Descript. tie I'Asie Min., which containsnumerous representations of the ancient remains ofPatara; Spratt and Forbes, Travels in Lycia. i.p. 3Uf.ll.) [L.S.] PATAVISSA (Xlarpovitraa, Ptol. iii. 8. § 7,wrongly), a small town of Dacia, endowed by theemperor Severus with the jus coloniae. (Ulpian,Dig. i. S. 9, where it is called Patavicensium vicus.)Variously identified with Mar-Vjvar, or with Ptovisor Tot'is, on the Marosch; also with Bogatz and St.Kiraly. on a tributary of the same river. [T.H.D.]PATA'VIUM (Tlaraovioy: Eth. Patavinus: Pa-dora), one of the most ancient and important citiesof Venetia, situated on the river Medoacus (Brenta),about 30 miles from its mouth. According to atradition recorded by Virgil, and universally receivedin antiquity, it was founded by Antenor, whoesca.|*dthither after the fall of Troy; and I,ivy, himself anative of ttie city, confirms this tradition, though hed'>es not mention the name of Patavium, but de­scribes the whole nation of the Veneti as havingmigrated to this part of Italy under the guidanceof Antenor. Me identifies them with the Heneti, who )were mentioned by Homer as a Paphlagonian tribe.(Lie. i. I; Virg. A en. i. 247; Si rah. v. p. 212;Mel. ii. 4. § 2; Solin. 2. § 10.) The nationalaffinities of the Veneti are considered elsewhere[Venf.tt]. The story of Antenor may saf<ly berejected as mythical; but we may infer from thegeneral accordance of ancient writers that Pataviumitself was a Venetian city, and apparently from anearly period I he capital or chief place of the nation.We have very little information as to its history,before it became subject to Home, and we knowonly the general fact that it was at an early periodnn opulent and flourishing city: Strabo even tellsus that it could send into the field an army of120,(100 men, hut this is evidently an exaggeration,and probably refers to the whole natiun of theVeneti, of which it was the capital. (Strab. v.p 213.) Whatever was the origin of the Veneti,there seems no doubt they were a people far moreadvanced in civilisation than the neighbouring Gauls,with whom they were on terms of almost continualhostility. The vigilance rendered necessary by theincursions of the Gauls stood them in stead on occa­sion of the unexpected attack of Cleonymus the | Lacedaemonian, who in n. c. 301 landed it thimouth of the Medoacus, bnt was attacked hyJtPat avians, and the greater part of his iurm cat *(Liv. x. 2.) It was doubtless their continual hostility wiithe Gauls that led the Venetians to becnow uallies of Home, as soon as that pjww betaa t»«tend its arms into Cisalpine Gaul. (IM. u.i\No special mention of Patavium occurs dviiif'Jwars that followed; and we are left to infcfanalogy the steps by which this independent apassed gradually under the dependence tai 3tection of Rome, till it ultimately became an ?inary municipal town. In n. c. 174 it i? ekai ttit still retained at least a semblance of inttavaC"*as we hear that it was distracted withdissensions, which the citizens appealed to K "wpacify, and the consul M. Aemilius wis st^t*ideputy for the purpose. (Liv. xli. 27 ) Bit Iprosperity of Patavium continued uiihrokea:this it was indebted as much to the manofartafindustry of its inhabitants as to the natural tertiof its territory. The neighbouring hilU hrkabundance of wool of excellent quality: and Isupplied the material for extensive w,. .factures, w hich seem to have been the ftafk a?of the tiade of Patavium, that city suppling Bin the time of Augustus with all the finer ana lcostly kinds of carpets, hangings. &c-these, however, it carried on many other fcftflof manufactures also; and so ereat was tk* *iarising from these sources that, accord ir£ to HPatavium was the only city of Italy, excec* Bthat could return to the census not les* linojxTsons of fortunes entitling them tneqwstruT''(Strab. iii. p. 169, v. pp! 213, 218.) We awonder, therefore, that both he and Mela *f*iit as unquestionably the first citv in th» jslItaly. (Id. v. p. 213; -Mela. ii. 4. § 2 ) The Patavians had been fortunate in esowaravages of war. During the Civil Wars tfarJis scarcely mentioned; but we learn fnKn <that in B. C. 43 they took part writfl tfc* *against M. Antonins, and refused to rerti^iemissaries. (Cic. Phil, xii. 4.) It was ynin consequence of this, that at a later pr >Jwere severely oppressed by the exaction? td \Pollio. (Macrob. Sat. i.' II. § 22.) In a.Patavium was occupied without oppiutpc Igenerals of Vespasian, Primus, and V*ruv,Jtheir advance into Italy. (Tac. Hist, iii 6)its good fortune in this respect there eaadoubt that Patavium continued ck-wTi te Ij>eri'xi of the Empire to be a rl'>urishinir xfg ■city, though it seems to have be*ti gTadoauN*by the increasing prosperity of A«>uil-ii a: £ Ilanum. Hence Ausunius, writinc in ti*century. d<*>s not even assign it a pi»cr m blNohilium Urbium. But its long perx<i >*' p-«awas abruptly brought to a ch*>e. In a. iafelt the full fury of Attila, who. after tt« r»sAquileia, which had long resisteU hi* %ncwaste almost without opposition The ret-v c|of Venetia. He is said to have otterjt 4aand razed to the ground Patavium. m vn, irordia and Altinum (P. Diac. Hist M*m^%X549); and, according to a tradition, whica.not supported by contemporary t^tdrac* s »well founded, it was on this occasion \Kainumber of fugitives from the fanner htt t^jjin the islands of the lag lines, and then fcmjs