OCR Output MUTINA. MUZ A. 379 the city and its territory had begun to feel severelythe calamities that were pressing upon the whole ofthis fertile and once flourishing tract of country.In a. d. 377, the remains of the conquered tribe ofthe Taifali were settled, by order of the emperorGratianos, in the country around Mutina, Kegiuin,ami Parma (Amm. Marc xxxi. 9. § 4)—a plainindication that the population was already deficient;and St. Ambrose, writing not long after the samedire, describes Mutina, Kcgium, and the other citiesalong the Aemilian Way, as in a state of ruin anddecay, while their territories were uncultivated anddesolate. (Ambros. Ep. 39.) The same districtajain suffered severely in A.D. 452, from the ravagesof Attila, who laid waste all the cities of Aemilinwith fire and sword. (Jliit. Miscell. xv. p. 549.)They, however, survived all these calamities, fromwhich, nevertheless, Mutina appears to have sufferedmore severely than its neighbours. Under theLombard kings, it became the frontier city of theirdominions towards the Exarchate; and though taker.by the Greek emperor Manricius in 590, it wasagain annexed by Agilulphus to the Lombard king­dom of Italy. (Muratori, Antiq. Ital. vol. i. p. 63.)At this period it feil into a state of great decay.P. Diaconus, who mentions Bononia, Panna, andKeginm as wealthy and flourishing cities, does noteven notice the name of Mutina (//»<. Lang. ii. 18);and a writer of the 10th century draws a lament­able picture of the condition to which it was re­duced. The numerous streams which irrigated itsterritory having been then neglected, inundated thewhole surrounding tracts; and the site of the cityhad become in great part a mere morass, in whichthe rains that attested its ancient grandeur, werehalf buried in the mud and water. (Murat Ant.voL ii. pp. 154, 155.) At a later period of the middle ages, Modenatrain rose to prosperity, and became, as it has eversince continued, a flourishing and opulent city.Bat the truth of the description above cited is con­firmed by the fact, that the remains of the ancientcity are wholly buried under the accumulations ofalluvial soil on which the buildings of the moderncity are founded, and are only brought to light fromtime to time by excavations. (Murat. /. c.) Largeportions of the ruins were also employed at variousperiods, in the construction of the cathedral andother churches; and no remains of ancient buildingsare now extant But a valuable collection of sar­cophagi and inscriptions, discovered at variousperiods on the site of the modern city, is preservedin the museum. These have been fully illustratedby Cavedoni in his Antichi ilarmi Malcneri (8vo.Modena, 1828), in which work the facts knownconcerning the ancient history of the city are wellbrought together. Modems is situated between the river Secchia,which flows about 3 miles to the W. of the city,and the I'anaro, about the same distance on the E.The latter is unquestionably the ancient Scixtknna,a name which it still retains in the npper part of itsemrse. The Secckin is probably the Gabcllus ofPliny; but seems to have been also known in ancienttimes as the Secia; for the Jerusalem Itinerarymarks a station called Pons Secies, 5 miles fromMutina. where the Aemilian Way crossed this river.(/tm. Hier. p. 616.) The Apennines begin to riseabout 10 miles to the S. of the city; and the ancientterritory of Mutina seems to have included a con­siderable extent of these mountains, as Pliny notices a prodigy which occurred " in agro Mutinensi,*when two mountains were dashed against oneanother with great violence, so that they appearedto recoil again from the shock. (Plin. ii. 83. b. 85.)This phenomenon, which occurred in b. c. 91was doubtless the result of an earthquake, and not,as has been sometimes supposed, of a volcanic out­break. [E. H. B.] MUTUSCAE. [TitEBiu,A Mltusca.] MUTYCA. [Motyca.] MUZA (MA^a, Arriun; Muwa and Mnu'iTa ifx-rra-plov, Ptol.), an important mercantile town on theArabian coast of the Red Sea, not far north of theStraits of Bab-el- Mantleb, in the country of Elisari:placed by Ptolemy in long. 74° 30', lttt. 14°; or 30'west, and 2° north of Ocelis ('OmjAw iniroplov)close to the straits. (Ptol. vii. 15. p. 152.) He statesthat its longest day is 12 J hours, that it is 1' east ofAlexandria, and within the tropics (viii. Tab. vi. Asiae,p. 241); Pliny (vi. 23) names Musa as the thirdport of Arabia Felix u quern Indies navigatio non petit)nee nisi turis odorumque Arabicorum mercatores."The author of the l'eripbu frequently alludes to it,and gives a full account of it audits trade. He de­scribes it as situated in the southernmost gulf of thiscoast, a regular mart; inhabited altogether by Arabmariners and merchants, distant about 12,000 sta­dia from Berenice to the south, and 300 northof the straits. (Vincent, Periplut, p. 296. n. 100:Gosselin, Jticherches. tfc. tome ii. pp. 265, 266.)It was not only an emporium of Indian merchan­dise— a manifest contradiction of Pliny's state­ment already cited—but bad an export trade of itsown. It was distant three days' journey from thecity of Save (2aujj), which was situated inland, inthe country of Maphoritis. It had no proper harbour,but a good roadstead, and a sandy anchorage. Itsprincipal import trade was in fine and common pur­ple cloth; Arab dresses with sleeves—probably thekemit — some plain and common, others embroideredwith needlework and in gold; saffron; an aroma­tic plant, named cyperus (icuVfoor); fine linen;long robes—the abiti; quilts; striped girdles ; per­fumes of a middling quality; specie in abundance;and small quantities of wine and grain, for thecountry grew but little wheat, and more wine. Tothe king and tyrant were given horses, pack-mules ,vessels of silver and brass, and costly raiment. Be­sides the above named articles of merchandise, whichwere chiefly supplied to its markets from Adule, onthe opposite coast, the great emporium of Africanproduce [Adule], Musa exported a precious myrrhcf native growth, an aromatic gum, which tli6 authornames otokt^ ageiptiivaia, and a white marble oralabaster (A0700S). (Arrian, Peripl. ap. Jlndton.Oetiffr. Atin. vol. i. pp. 13, 14.) Vessels from thispart visited all the principal mercantile towns of thesouth coast of Arabia. Bochart's identification of thisMusa with the Mesha mentioned by Moses, as oneextreme point of the Joktanite Arabs,— Sepliar beingthe other (Gen. x. 30),—is thought by Mr. Eorsterto be untenable, on account of the narrow limits towhich it would confine this laree and importantrace; for the site of Sepliar is clearly ascertained.[Maphokitae; Sai'Mouitae.] (Otogr.'jif Arabia,vol. i. pp. 93, 94.) M. Gosselin (Richerchtt, cfe.tome ii. p. 89) asserts that this once most cclc*brated and frequented port of l'enien is now morethan six leagues from the sea, and is replaced as a portby.l/oM«,thc foundatiuii of which dates back no morethan 400 years (Niebuhr, Voyage en Arable,