OCR Output 56 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Cappadocia, Pontus, Armenia, could not withstand the pre­tender; he penetrated by force of arms into Colophon, Samoa,and Myndus, and already ruled over almost all his father's 131, kingdom, when at the close of 623 a Roman army landed inAsia. Its commander, the consul and pontifex maximusPublius Licinius Crassus Mucianus, one of the wealthiestand at the same time one of the most cultivated men inRome, equally distinguished as an orator and as a jurist,was about to besiege the pretender in Leucae, but duringhis preparations for that purpose allowed himself to besurprised and defeated by his too much undervalued oppo­nent, and was himself taken prisoner by a Thracian band.But he did not allow such an enemy the triumph of exhibit­ing the Roman commander-in-chief as a captive; he pro­voked the barbarians, who had captured him withoutknowing who he was, to put him to death (beginning of 130. 624), and the consular was only recognized when a corpse.With him, as it would seem, fell Ariarathes king of Cappa­docia. But not long after this victory Aristonicus wasattacked by Marcus Perpenna, the successor of Crassus;his army was dispersed, he himself was besieged and takenprisoner in Stratonicea, and was soon afterwards executed inRome. The subjugation of the last towns that still offeredresistance and the definitive regulation of the country werecommitted, after the sudden death of Perpenna, to Manius 129. Aquillius (625). The same policy was followed as in thecase of the Carthaginian territory. The eastern portion of thekingdom of the Attalids was assigned to the client kings, soas to release the Romans from the defence of the frontier andthereby from the necessity of maintaining a standing forcein Asia; Telmissus (ii. 275) went to the Lycian confederacy;the European possessions in Thrace were annexed to theprovince of Macedonia; the rest of the territory wasorganized as a new Roman province, which like that ofCarthage was, not without design, designated by the nameof the continent in which it lay. The land was released fromthe taxes which had been paid to Pergamus; and it wastreated with the same moderation as Hellas and Macedonia.Thus the most considerable state in Asia Minor became aRoman province.Western The numerous other small states and cities of western Asia. Asia—the kingdom of Bithynia, the Paphlagonian and Gallic principalities, the Lycian, Carian, and Pamphylian