OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL and Egypt, over which Valens had reigned, wereresigned to the administration of the new emperor;but, as he was specially intrusted with the conductof the Gothic war, the Illyrian prefecture was dis­membered; and the two great dioceses of Daciaand Macedonia were added to the dominions of theEastern e mpire. The same province, and, perhaps, the same city,which had given to the throne the virtues of Trajan,and the talents of Hadrian, was the original seat ofanother family of Spaniards, who, in a less fortunateage, possessed, near fourscore years, the decliningempire of Rome. They emerged from the obscurityof municipal honours by the active spirit of the elderTheodosius, a general, whose exploits in Britainand Africa have formed one of the most splendidparts of the annals of Valentinian. The son of thatgeneral, who likewise bore the name of Theodosius,was educated, by skilful preceptors, in the liberalstudies of youth; but he was instructed in the artof war by the tender care and severe discipline ofhis father. Under the standard of such a leader,young Theodosius sought glory and knowledge, inthe most distant scenes of military action; inured hisconstitution to.the difference of seasons and climates;distinguished his valour by sea and land; and ob­served the various warfare of the Scots, the Saxons,and the Moors. His own merit, and the recom­mendation of the conqueror of Africa, soon raisedhim to a separate command: and in the station ofDuke of Maesia, he vanquished an army of Sarma-tians; saved the province; deserved the love of thesoldiers; and provoked the envy of the court *. Hisrising fortunes were soon blasted by the disgrace and * Ammianus (xxix. 6) mentions this victory of Theodosius Junior Dux Masiac,prima etiam turn lanugine juvenis, princeps postea perspectissimus. The samefact is attested by Themistius and Zosimus; but Theodoret (1. v. c. 5), who addssome curious circumstances, strangely applies it to the time of the interregnum.