OCR Output 1102 TARQUINII. TARQUINII. tion considered as subsisting between tliis Tages andTarehon himself, the eponymous hero of Tarquinii.(Miiller, Etrwkertvo], i. p. 73.) It is impossible hereto discuss the historical bearings of these traditions,which seem to point to Tarquinii as the point fromwhence the power and civilisation of the Etruscansemanated as from a centre, while on the other handthere is another body of traditions which seems torepresent that people as gradually extending them­selves from the north, and Cortona as the first centreand stronghold of their power. [Etrtkia, Vol. I.p. 859.] A somewhat different version is giren byJu-tin, who states that Tarquinii was founded by theThmrWtnt, probably meaning the l'elasgians fromThessaly, to whom Hellanieus ascribed the colonisa­tion of Etruria in general. (Justin, xx. lj Hel-lanic. np f)umt/&. i. 28.) But whatever value may be attached to thesetraditions, they may at least be admitted as provingthe reputed high antiquity and early power of Tar­quinii as compared with the other cities of SouthernEtruria: and this is confirmed by the importantposition it appears to have held, when its name firstappears in connection with the Roman history. Ci­cero calls it '* urbem Etruriae florentissimam" atthe time when Demaratus. the father of Tarqui-nius 1'riscus, was said to have established himselfthere. (Cic. de Rrp. ii. 19.) It is remarkableindeed that the story which derived the origin of theRoman kins Tarquinius from Corinth representedhis father Demaratus as bringing with Mm Greekartists, and thus appears to ascribe the first originur introduction of the arts into Etruria, as well asits religious institutions, to Tarquinii. (I'lin. xxxv.12. s. 43; Strab. v. p. 220.) It is unnecessary torervat here the well-known story of the emigrationof an Etruscan Lueuino from Tarquinii to Koine,where he became king under the name of LuciusTarquinius. (Liv. i. 34; Diaojs. iii. 46—4S; Cic.de Rfp, ii. 19, 20; Strab. v. p. 219.) The con-iiection with Tarquinii is rejected by Niebuhr, as amere etymological fable, but it is not easy to say onwhat grounds. The name of Tarquinius, as that ofa gens or family, as well as that of the city, isundoubtedly Etruscan; the native form being*■ Tarenas:" and the strong infusion of Etruscaninfluence into the Roman state before the close ofthe regal period is a fact which cannot reasonablybe questioned. It is remarkable also that thehVcnan traditions represented the Tarquinians asfining with the Wienies in the first attempt to"restore the exiled Tarquins, B-C. 509, though fromthis time fifth we do not again bear of their namefor ta« than a century. (Liv. ii. 6, 7; Dionys.t. 14.) The story of the emigration of the elderTarqain to Rome, as well as that of his father De-marains from Corinth, may fairly be deemed un-wwthv of behef ia its prtsemt Jom.-but it is probablethat ia both case* there was a historical foundationfor the brtwa- Arter the war already mentioned, in the firsttckt c£ taw BtpahaV, do subsequent mention ofCmMI occurs m Roman history till b c. 398,maon the TnqiiMiw took np amis, and ravagedthe Gwaaa temt^oes. while their army was en-caetd m the siege of YeiL They were, however,- ■ iimth hone, and all their booty(Lit. t. 16.) Ltvy distinctly"but fromof thetii in B.C. 396, had indeed the effect of Wcrar, totRomans into immediate collision »ii tbe anawhich lay next beyond it, and amne uW T»-quinti and Volsinii seem to bare ukee tat iaiAlready in b. c. 389, we find the Tirqiiuai j»-ing with the other cities of Southern Etrtna a ■attempt to recover Sutrium: the next tot uarterritory was in its turn invaded by thetook the towns of Cortunta and Ceoteaitn. tatplaces otherwise unknown, but which afpear u txibeen dependencies of Tarquinii. (Liv. vl X I)Emm this time we hear no more of them ul B»C.158, when the Tarquinians, having rancd aiRoman territories, the consul C. Fabrciagainst them, but was defeated in a pitchec bca,and 307 of the prisoners takes on the oca*were put to death in the Forum of Tarqiiau.»»sacrifice to the Etruscan deities. (Lit. ni. 11, "*Shortly after, we find the Tarquinians sodagain in arms, and in the first battle vhkabetween them and the Romans they are satinobtained the \-ictory by putting forward theirwith flaming torches and serpents ia theirto strike terror into their assailants. (Ur. i17). But the EtruscAns were defeated nsturn by C. Marcins Rutilus, who was bc*tator to oppose them: and two yean kter354) the Romans took a sanguinary reveaet t»massacre of their prisoners, by potting tothe Eorum at Rome, 358 of the captives Uthe Tarquinians, chiefly i<i noble birth. (A.Rut the spirit of theTarquiasaan was not yKiand witli the support of the Falisrant awho now for a short time took part afthey continued the w«r till B. c 351. whssued for pace, and obtained a truce fcr fa?(lb. 19—22.) This truce appears to have beeiserved, for we hear nothing more ofTarquinii till b. C 311, when the Tiappear to have united with the othercities of Etruria in attacking the RossoSutrium. They were, however, defeated fcfRoman consul Aemilius Barbula, and apirtailyear by Q. Fubius, who followed np his vmrjpassing the Ciminian forest, and carryitg s»for the first time into Northern Etruria.no doubt that the Tarquinians, though adby name, bore a part in this contest as weB mgreat battle at the Vadimonian lake in theyear (b. c 309), as we find them soontheir submission to Rome, andof the consul Decius by sending aimcorn. (Liv. ix, 32, 3.W39. 41.) They ii*]tained a fresh truce for forty years (/ft.41):from this time we hear no more of theia as spendent nation. Whether this long trace,last, was faithfully observed, or the Taeavmore joined in the final struggles of thefor independence, we know not; bat it athat they passed, in common with thecities of Etruna, gradually into thependent allies of Rome, which the? retaawiSocial War (b. c. 90), when they as well ■other Etruscans obtained the full(Appian, B. C. L 49.) The only mthat occurs in this interval is during ibxFunic War, when the citizensnish the expedition of Scipio with sail-cki* fc*fleet. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) Aoconfisc ta tat"Coloniarum a body of colorisU was aut taah*