OCR Output MYSIA. MYSIA. 389 of a province In the north-west of Asia Minor,which according to Strabo (xii. p. 572) was derivedfrom the many beech-trees which grew about MountOlympus, and were called by the Lydians fivaoi.Others more plausibly connect the name with theCeltic moeie, a marsh or swamp, according to whichMysia would signify a marshy country. This sup­position is supported by the notion prevalent amongthe ancients that the Mysians had immigrated intoA>ia Minor from the marshy countries about the LowerDanube, called Moesia, whence Mysia and Moesiawould be only dialectic varieties of the same name.Hence, also, the Mysians are sometimes mentionedwith the distinctive attribute of the "Asiatic," todistinguish them from the European Mysians, orMoesians. (Eustath. ad Dion. Per. 809; Schol. adAfMm RlioaW. 1115.) The Asiatic province of Mysia was bounded inthe north by the Propontis and the Hellespont, inthe west by the Aegean, and in the south by Mount.Temnus and Lydia. In the east the limits are notaccurately defined by the ancients, though it wasbounded by Bithynia and Phrygia, and we mayassume the river Rhyndacus and Mount Olympus tohate, on the whole, formed the boundary line.(Str&b. xii. pp. 564, &c, 571.) The whole extent ofcountry bearing the name of Mysia, was divided intofive parts : — 1. Mvsia Minor (Moo-/o ri fiiKpa), thatis, the northern const-district on the Hellespont andPropontis. as far as Mount Olympus; it also bore thename of Mysia Hellespontiaca, or simply Hellesiwntus,and its inhabitants were called Hellespontii (Ptol. V.2. §§ 2. 3, 14; Xenoph. Ages. i. 14); or, fromMount Olympus. Mysia Olyrnpene (Mucin tj 'OAvja-wwr^ (Slrab. xii. p. 571). This Lesser Mysia em­braced the districts of Morkxe, Aiikettenk andthe Apian plain ('AwYas weiW; Strab. xii. pp. 574,576.) 2. Mysia Major (Mueria % /ttydAr)'), form­ing the *outhern part of the interior of the country,including a trait of country extending between Troasand Aeolis as fur as the bay of Adramyttium. Theprincipal city of this part was Pergamum, fromwhich the country is also called Mysia Pergamene(Mwria r) ntpyapnvii: Strab. I. c.; Ptol. v. 2.§| 5, 14.) 3. Troas (ij Tpwdis), the territory ofancient Troy, that is, the northern part of thewestern coast, from Sigeium to the bay of Adra-myttram. 4. Aeoijs, the southern part of the<*»*;, especially that between the rivers Caicus andHermus. 5. TetTHRANiA (i TfvSpavia'), or thedistrict on the soutliern frontier, where in ancienttimes Teuthra3 is said to have formed a Mysiankmptora. (Strab. xii. p. 551.) These names and divisions, however, were notthe tame at all times. Under the Persian do­minion, when Mysia formed a part of the second•stnpj (Herod, iii. 90), the name Mysia was ap­plied only to the north-eastern part of the country,that i», to Mysia Minor; while the western part ofthe cast of the Hellespont bore the name of LesserPhryeia. and the district to the south of the latterthat of Troas. (Scylax, p. 35.) In the latest timesof the Roman Empire, that is, under the Christianemperors, the greater part of Mysia was containedin the province bearing the name of Hellespontus,while the southern districts as far as Troas belongedto the province of Asia. (Hierocl. p. 658.) TV greater part of Mysia is a mountainous•""try, being traversed by the north-westernbranches of Mount Taurus, which gradually slope<!>*& towards the Aegean, the main branches being Mount Ida and Mount Temki'S. The country isalso rich in rivers, though most of them are small,and not navigable; but, notwithstanding its abun­dant supply of water in rivers and lakes, thecountry was in ancient times less productive thanother provinces of Asia Minor, and many parts of itwere covered with marshes and forests. Besides theordinary products of Asia Minor, and the excellentwheat of Assns (Strab. xv. p. 725), Mysia was cele­brated for a kind of stone called lapis assius (aap-Koipdyof'), which had the power of quickly consum­ing the human body, whence it was used for coffins(sarcophagi), and partly powdered and strewed overdead bodies. (Dioscorid. v. 141; Plin. ii. 98,xxxvi. 27; Steph. B. *. v. "Aaaos.) Near the coastsof the Hellespont there were excellent oyster beds.(Plin. xxxii. 21; Catull. xviii. 4; Virg. Georg.i. 207; Lucan, ix. 959; comp. Thcophrast. hist.Plant, i. 6. 13.) The country of Mysia was inhabited by severaltribes, as Phrygians, Trojans, Aeolians, and Mysians;but we must here confine ourselves to the Mysians,from whom the country derived its name. Mysiansare mentioned in the Iliad (ii. 858, x. 430, xiii. 5),and seem to be conceived by the poet as dwellingon the Hellespont in that part afterwards calledMysia Minor. Thence they seem, during the periodsubsequent to the Trojan War, to have extendedthemselves both westward and southward. (Strab.xii. p. 665.) Herodotus (vii. 74) describes them asbelonging to the same stock as the Lydians, withwhom they were always stationed together in thePersian armies (Herod, i. 171), and who probablyspoke a language akin to theirs. Strabo (vii.pp. 295, 303,~ xii. pp. 542, 564, &c.) regards themas a tribe that had immigrated into Asia fromEurope. It is difficult to see how these two state­ments are to be reconciled, or to decide which ofthem is more entitled to belief. As no traces of thoMysian language have come down to us, we cannotpronounce a positive opinion, though the evidence, sofar as it can be gathered, seems to be in favour ofStrabo's view, especially if we bear in mind thealleged identity of Moesians and Mysians. It is,moreover, not quite certain as to whether theMysians in Homer are to be conceived as Asiatics oras Europeans. If this view be correct, the Mysiansmust have crossed over into Asia either before, orsoon after the Trojan War. Being afterwards pressedby other immigrants, they advanced farther into thecountry, extending in the south-west as far as Per­gamum, and in the east as far as Catacecaumcne.About the' time of tho Aeolian migration, theyfounded, under Teuthras, the kingdom of Teuthrania,which was soon destroyed, but gave the district inwhich it had existed its permanent name. Thepeople which most pressed upon them in the northand east seem to have been the Bithynians. In regard to their history, the Mysians shared thefate of all the nations in the west of Asia Minor.In B. c. 190, when Antiochus was driven fromWestern Asia, they became incorporated with thekingdom of Pergamus; and when this was madeover to Kome, they formed a part of the province ofAsia. Respecting their national character and insti­tutions we possess scarcely any information; but ifwe may apply to them that which Posidonius (tnStrab. vii. p. 296) states of the European Moesians,they were a pious and peaceable nomadic people,who lived in a very simple manner on the produce oftheir flocks, and had not made great advances in cc 3