OCR Output 426 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him, and delivered him the epistle which theybrought from the high-priest, and answeredall the questions he put to them by word ofmouth. He then hastened to meet the elders,that came from Jerusalem, for the interpre­tation of the laws; and he gave commandthat other men who came on other occasions,should be sent away: which was a thing sur­prising, and what he did not use to do. Forthose that were drawn thither upon such oc­casions used to come to him on the fifth day:but ambassadors at the month's end. Butwhen he had sent those away, he waited forthese that were sent by Eleazar. But as theold man came in with the presents, which thehigh-priest had given them to bring to theking, and with the membranes, upon whichthey had their laws written in golden let­ters;* he put questions ta them concerningthose books. And when they had taken offthe covers wherein they were wrapt up, theyshewed him the membranes. So the kingstood admiring the thinness of those mem­branes, and the exactness of the junctures;which could not be perceived; so exactlywere they connected one with another: andthis he did for a considerable time. He thensaid, that he returned them thanks for com­ing to him, and still greater thanks to himthat sent them, arid above all to that Godwhose laws they appeared to be. Then didthe elders, and those that were present withthem, cry out with one voice, and wished allhappiness to the king: upon which he was soaffected that he burst into tears. It being na­tural to men to afford the same indications ingreat joy, that they do under sorrows. Andwhen he had bidden them to deliver the booksto those who were appointed to receive them,he saluted the men: and said that it was butjust to discourse in the first place of the errandthey were sent about: and then to addresshimself to them. He promised, however, thathe would make this day on which they cameto him remarkable and eminent every yearthrough the whole course of his life. For their coming to him, and the victory which hegained over Antigonus by sea, proved to beon the very same day. He also gave ordersthat they should sup with him: and gave incharge that they should have excellent lodg­ings provided in the upper part of the city. Now he that was appointed to take care ofthe reception of strangers, Nicanor by name,called for Dorotheus; whose duty it was tomake provisions for them; and bade him pre­pare for every one of them what should berequisite for their diet and way of living.Which thing was ordered by the king afterthis manner. He took care for those thatbelonged to every city, which did not usethe same way of living, that all things shouldbe prepared for them according to the cus­tom of those that came to him; that beingfeasted according to the usual method oftheir own way of living, they might be thebetter pleased, and might not be uneasy atany thing done to them, from which theywere naturally averse. And this was nowdone in the case of these men by Dorotheus;who was put into this office because of hisskill in such matters. For he took care ofall things which concerned this reception ofstrangers; and appointed them double seatsfor them to sit on, according as the king hadcommanded. For he had ordered that halfof their seats should be set at his hand, andthe other half behind his table: and he tookcare that no respect should be omitted thatcould be shewn them. And when they werethus set down, he bade Dorotheus ministerto all those who were come to him from Ju-dea, after the manner they used to be minis­tered to. For which cause he sent away theirsacred heralds; and those that slew the sacri­fices, and the rest that used to say grace. Butcalled to one of those that were come to him,whose name was Eleazar, who was a priest,and desired him to say grace :| who thenstood in the midst of them, and prayed, "thatall prosperity might attend the king, andthose that were his subjects." Hereupon an * The Talnradists say, that it is not lawful to write thelaw in letters of gold: contrary to this certain and veryancient example. See Hudson's and Reland's noteshere. | This is the most ancient example that I have metwith, of a grace, or a short prayer before meat: whichas it used to be said by a heathen priest, who was one ofthese seventy-two interpreters. The next example I have met with, is that of the Essenes, Of the War II. 8.both before and after it. The next are those of our Sa­viour before it, Mark viii. 6. John vi. 11, 23. and St. Paul,Acts xxvii. 35. The next is a form of such a grace orprayer for Christians, at the end of the 5th book of theApostolical Constitutions; which seems to have been in­tended for both times, both before and after meat .