OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 189 cocks, ostriches, roebucks, and wild boars, and the noble game of lions and tigerswere sometimes turned loose for the bolder pleasure of the chase. Nine hun­dred and sixty elephants, were maintained for the use or splendou:- of the greatking: his tents and baggage were carried into the field by twelve thousand greatcamels, and eight thousand of a smaller size;(l) and the royal stables were filledwith six thousand mules and horses, among whom the names of Shebdiz and Baridare renowned for their speed or beauty. Six thousand guards successively mount­ed before the palace-gate; the service of the interior apartments was performedby twelve thousand slaves, and in the number of three thousand virgins, the fair­est of Asia, some happy concubine might console her master for the age or in­difference of Sira. 1 he various treasures of gold, silver, gems, silk, and aroma-tics, were deposited in a hundred subterraneous vaults; and the chamber of Bada-■verd denoted the accidental gift of the winds which had wafted the spoils of Hera-clius into one of the Syrian harbours of his rival. The voice of flattery, and perhapsof fiction, is not ashamed to compute the thirty thousand rich hangings that adornedthe walls, the forty thousand columns of silver, or more probably of marble, andplated wood, that supported the roof; and a thousand globes of gold suspended inthe dome, to imitate the motions of the planets and the constellations of the zodi­ac. (2) While'the Persian monarch contemplated the wonders of his art andpower, he received an epistle from an obscure citizen of Mecca, inviting him toacknowledge Mahomet as the apostle of God. He rejected the invitation, andtore the epistle. It is thus (exclaimed the Arabian prophet) that God will tearthe kingdom, and reject the sufifilications, of Cliosroes. (3) Placed on the verge ofthe two great empires of the east, Mahomet observed with secret joy the progressof their mutual destruction; and in the midst of the Persian triumphs, he ven­tured to foretel, that before many years should elapse, victory would again returnto the banners of the Romans. (4) At the time when this prediction is said to have been delivered, no prophecycould be more distant from its accomplishment, since the first twelve years ofHeraclius announced the approaching dissolution of the empire. If the motivesof Chosroes had been pure and honourable, he must have ended the quarrel withthe death of Phocas, and he would have embraced, as his best ally, the fortunateAfrican who had so generously avenged the injuries of his benefactor Maurice.The prosecution of the war revealed the true character of the barbarian: and thesuppliant embassies of Heraclius to beseech his clemency, that he would sparethe innocent, accept a tribute, and give peace to the world, were rejected withcontemptuous silence or insolent menace. Syria, Egypt, and the provinces ofAsia, were subdued by the Persian arms, while Europe, from the confines of Is-tria to the long wall of Thrace, was oppressed by the Avars, unsatiated with theblood and rapine of the Italian war. They had coolly massacred their male cap­tives in the sacred field of Pannonia; the women and children were reduced toservitude, and the noblest virgins were abandoned to the promiscuous lust of thebarbarians. The amorous matron who opened the gates of Firuli passed a shortnight in the arms of her royal lover: the next evening Romilda was condemned tothe embraces of twelve Avars, and the third day the Lombard princess was im­paled in the sight of the camp, while the chagan observed, with a cruel smile,that such a husband was the fit recompense of her lewdness and perfidy. (5) Bythese implacable enemies, Heraclius, on either side, was insulted and besieged:and the Roman empire was reduced to the walls of Constantinople, with the rem­nant of Greece, Italy, and Africa, and some maritime cities, from Tyre to Trebi- . (1) The difference between the two races consists in one or two humps; the dromedary has only one; thesize of the proper camel is larger; the country he comes from, Turkestan or Bactriana; the dromedary isconfined to Arabia aod Africa. Buffon, Hist. Naturelle, torn. li. p. 211, &c. Aristot. Hist. Animal, torn. i. lib.u.c. 1.: tom.ii. p. 185. (2) Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 268. D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale. p. 997. The Greeks describethe decay, the Persians the splendour of Dastagerd; but the former speak from the modest witness of the eye,the latter from the vague report of the ear. (3) The historians of Mahomet, Abnlfeda, (in Vit. Mahommed, p. 92,93.) and Gagnier, (Vie de Mahomet,J°m., ii. p. 247.) date this embassy in the seventh year of the Hegira, which commences A. D. 628. May 11.Their Chronology is erroneous, since Chosroes died in the month of February of the same year. (Pagi, Cri-tica, torn. ii. p. 779.) The count de Boulainvilliers (Vie de Mahommed, p. 327,328.) places this embassy aboutA.]). 615, soon after the conquest of Palestine. Yet Mahomet would scarcely have ventured so soon on sobold a step. C4) See the thirtieth chapter of the Koran, entitled the Greeks. Our honest and learned translator Sale,.CP.. 330,331.) fairly states this conjecture, guess, wager, of Mahomet; but Boulainvilliers, p. 329—344,) withwicked intentions, labours to establish this evident prophecy of a future event, which must, in his opinion,embarrass the Christian polemics. Paul Wameftid, de Gestis Langobardoruro, lib. ir. c, 38*-42. Muratori, Annali d'lralia, torn, v. n. 305, gee.