OCR Output C. IV.] JERUSALEM. 177 octagon, and over against it was the tower Hippicus, andhard by it two others were erected by king Herod in the oldwall. These were for largeness, beauty, and strength beyondall that were in the habitable earth ; for besides the magna­nimity of his nature, and his magnificence towards the cityon other occasions, he built these after such an extraordinarymanner, to gratify his own private affections, and dedicatedthese towers to the memory of those three persons who hadbeen the dearest to him, and from whom he named them." They were his brother, his friend, and his wife. This wifehe had slain out of his love [and jealousy,] as we have alreadyrelated ; the other two he lost in war, as they were courage­ously fighting. Hippicus, so named from his friend, wassquare ; its length and breadth was each twenty-five cubits,and its height thirty, and it had no vacuity in it. Over thissolid building, which was composed of great stones unitedtogether, there was a reservoir twenty cubits deep; over whichthere was a house of two stories, whose height was twenty-fivecubits, and divided into several parts ; over which were battle­ments of two cubits, and turrets all round of three cubitshigh, insomuch that the entire height added together amountedto four-score cubits. The second tower, which he named fromhis brother Phasaelus, had its breadth and its height equal,each of them forty cubits: over which was its solid height offorty cubits; over which a cloister went round about, whoseheight was ten cubits, and it was covered from enemies bybreastworks and bulwarks. There was also built over thatcloister another tower, parted into magnificent rooms, and aplace for bathing; so that this tower wanted nothing thatmight make it appear to be a royal palace. It was alsoadorned with battlements and turrets, more than was theforegoing, and the entire altitude was about ninety cubits:the appearance of it resembled the tower of Pharus, whichexhibited a fire to such as sailed to Alexandria, but was muchlarger than it in compass. This was now converted to ahouse, wherein Simon exercised his tyrannical authority.The third tower was Mariamne, for that was his queen'sname : it was solid as high as twenty cubits: its breadth and