OCR Output CHAP. L. -295 violate the harmony of nature; that a creed uncloudedwith mystery may be excused from miracles; and thatthe sword of Mahomet was not less potent than the rodof Moses. Precepts The polytheist is oppressed and distracted bymet— ° the variety of superstition: a thousand rites offasting Egyptian origin were interwoven with the es-ala,*- sence of the Mosaic law and the spirit of the gos­pel had evaporated in the pageantry of the church. Theprophet of Mecca was tempted by prejudice, or policy,or patriotism, to sanctify the rites of the Arabians, andthe custom of visiting the holy stone of the Caaba. Butthe precepts of Mahomet himself inculcate a more simpleand rational piety: prayer, fasting, and alms, are the re­ligious duties of a Mussulman; and he is encouraged tohope, that prayer will carry him halfway to God, fasting-will bring him to the door of his palace, and alms willgain him admittance.' I. According to the tradition ofthe nocturnal journey, the apostle, in his persona! con­ference with the Deity, was commanded to. impose onhis disciples the daily obligation of fifty prayers. By theadvice of Moses, he applied for an alleviation of this in­tolerable burden; the number was gradually reduced tofive; without any dispensation of business or pleasure,or time or place, the devotion of the faithful is repeatedat day-break, at noon, in the afternoon, in the evening,and at the first watch of the night; and, in the presentdecay of religious fervour, our travellers are edified bythe profound humility and attention of the Turks andPersians. Cleanliness is the key of prayer: the frequentlustration of the hands, the face, and the body, which 1 The most authentic account of these precepts, pilgrimage, prayer, fasting, alms,and ablutions, is extracted from the Persian ami Arabian theologians by Maracci.(Prodrorn. part 4. p. 9—24.) Reland, (in his excellent treatise de Keligiooe Mo-hammedici, Uttecht, 1717, p. 67—1X3.) and Chardin. (Voyages en Perse* tarn. 4.p. 47—195*) Maracci is a partial accuser; bat the jeweller, Chardin, had theeyes of a philosopher; and Rotund, a judicious student, had travelled over the eastin his closet at Utrecht. The fourteenth letter of Tournefort (Voyage du Levant,torn. 2. p. 325—360, in octavo) describes what he had seen of the religion of theTuilu.