OCR Output LIVY. those of their friends. Two of their commanders, Nicoand Democrates, fell fighting courageously. Philo-menus, who had been the author of the plot for be­traying the city to Hannibal, rode away from the fightat full speed; his horse was not long after seen stray­ing through the city without a rider, but his body wasnever found, and the general opinion was that he fellfrom his horse into an open well. Carthalo, as he wascoming to the consul unarmed, to remind him of theirfathers being connected by- ah intercourse of hospi­tality, was slain by a soldier who met him in the way.The rest were put to the sword without distinction,armed and unarmed, Carthaginians and Tarentinesalike. Many even of the Bruttians were killed, eitherthrough mistake, or through the inveterate hatredborne towards them by the Romans, or with design todiscountenance the report of the place being betrayed,and that it might rather appear to have been taken byforce of arms. After this carnage, the victors pro­ceeded in several parties to plunder the city. We aretold that there were here thirty thousand persons in astate of servitude, a vast quantity of silver wroughtand coined, eighty-seven thousand pounds weight ofgold, together with statues and pictures in such num­bers, as almost to rival the decorations of Syracuse.But Fabius, with more greatness of mind than wasshown by Marcellus, refrained from meddling withbooty of that sort; and when his secretary asked himwhat he would have done with the statues of theirgods, which were of gigantic size, and habited likewarriors, he ordered him to 'let the Tarentines keeptheir angry gods to themselves.' Then the wall, whichseparated the citadel from the town, was demolishedand rased. Amid these transactions Hannibal, havingmade prisoners the party employed in the siege ofCaulon, who capitulated, hearing of the siege of Ta-retitum, marched night and day with all expedition torelieve it: but while he was hastening thither, he re­ceived the news of its being taken. On this he ob­served, 'the Romans, too, have their Hannibal: we