OCR Output A. D. 15.] OF TACITUS exertions to repair the losses of the army; each nationoffering, according to their respective abilities, a sup­ply of arms, of horses, and money. Germanicusthanked them for their zeal, but received arms andhorses only.. With his own funds he re'ieved thewants of the soldiers; and to obliterate, or at leastsoften the recollection of past misfortunes, he unitedwith generosity the most conciliating manners. Hevisited the sick; he applauded their bravery; he ex­amined their wounds; he encouraged some by pro­mises; he roused others to a sense of glory; and ingeneral, filled all hearts with zeal for his person andthe success of his arms. LXXII. Triumphal ornaments were this year de­creed to Aulus Csecina, Lucius Apronius, and CaiusSilius, for their conduct under Germanicus. The titleof Father of his Country, so often pressed upon himby the people, Tiberius once more declined; norwould he consent that men should be sworn on his actsthough a vote for that purpose had passed the senate.For this self-denial, he alleged the instability of hu­man affairs, and the danger of the sovereign, alwaysgrowing in proportion to the eminence on which hestands. Popular as this sentiment was, no man thoughtit sincere. He who had lately revived, in all its ri­gour, the law of violated majesty, could not be consi­dered as the friend of civil liberty. The title, indeed,of that law was known in ancient times, but the spi­rit of it differed from the modern practice. Duringthe old republic, the treachery that betrayed an army,the seditious spirit that threw the state into convul­sion!, tne corrupt administration that impaired themajesty of the Roman people, were the objects of thelaw. Men were arraigned for their actions, but wordswere free. Augustus was the first who warped thelaw to new devices. The licentious spirit of CassiusSeverus, whose satirical pen had ridiculed the mosteminent of both sexes, excited the indignation ofthe prince; and the pains and penalties of violatedmajesty were, by a forced construction, extended todefamatory libels. After his example, Tiberius, beingasked by the prator, Pompeius Macer, whether in