OCR Output AH. 1612.] fi.r> ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. as also to his sons by Ketura, Troglodytis;and to Isaac, Canaan. "By my assistance,"said he, " he did great exploits in war, which,unless you be yourselves impious, you muststill remember. As for Jacob, he becamewell known to strangers also, by the great­ness of that prosperity in which he lived andleft to his sons, who came into Egypt with nomore than seventy souls, while you are nowbecome above six hundred thousand. Knowtherefore, that I shall provide for you all incommon what is for your good, and particu­larly for thyself what shall make thee famous;for that child, out of dread of whose nativitythe Egyptians have doomed the Israelite chil­dren to destruction, shall be this child ofthine,, and shall be concealed from those whowatch to destroy him, and when he is broughtup, in a surprising way he shall deliver theHebrew nation from the distress they areunder from the Egyptians. His memory shallbe famous while the world lasts; and this notonly among the Hebrews, but foreigners also;all which shall be the effect of my favour tothee, and to thy posterity. He shall also havesuch a brother, that he shall himself obtainmy priesthood, and his posterity shall have itafter him to the end of the world." When the Vision had informed him of thesethings, Amram awaked, and told it to Joche-bed, his wife: and now the fear increasedupon them, on account of the prediction inAmram's dream, for they were under' con­cern, not only for the child, but on account ofthe great happiness that was to come to himalso. However,* the mother's labour wassuch as afforded a confirmation to what wasforetold by God; for it was not known to thosewho watched her by the easiness of her pains,and because the throes of her delivery didnot fall upon her with violence; and nowthey nourished the child at home privatelyfor three months. But after that time, Am­ram fearing he should be discovered, and byfalling under the king's displeasure,- both heand his child should perish, and so he shouldmake the promise of God of none effect, hedetermined rather to trust the safety and cafe4of the child to God, than to depend on hisown concealment of him, which he lookedupon as a thing uncertain, and whereby boththe :ohild, so privately to be nourished, ftnJF -TTTTTT T~r ■A£"iW. -i—i- himself, should be in imminent danger; buthe believed that God would some way forcertain procure the safety of the child, inorder to secure the truth of his own predic­tions. When they had thus determined, theymade an ark of bulrushes, after the mannerof a cradle, and of a bigness sufficient for aninfant to be laid in, without being too muchstraightened. They then daubed it over withslime, which would naturally keep out thewater from entering between the bulrushes,and put the infant into it, and setting it afloatupon the river, they left its preservation toGod; so the river received the child, andcarried him along; but Miriam, the child'ssister, passed along upon the bank overagainst him, as her mother had bid her, tosee whither the ark would be carried: whereGod demonstrated that human wisdom wasnothing, but that the Supreme Being is ableto do whatsoever he pleases; that those, who,in order to their own security, condemn othersto destruction, and use great endeavoursabout it, fail of their purpose; but that othersare, in a surprising manner, preserved, andobtain a prosperous condition, almost fromthe very midst of their calamities: those 1mean whose dangers arise by the appoint­ment of God; and indeed such a Providenceiwas exercised in the case of this child asshewed the power of God. Thermuthis, the king's daughter was nowdiverting herself by the banks of the river;and seeing a cradle borne along by the cur­rent, she sent some that could swim, and bidthem to bring the cradle to her. When thosethat were sent on this errand came to herwith the cradle, and she saw the little child,she was greatly in love with it, on account ofits largeness and beauty, for God had takensuch great care in the formation of Moses,that he caused him to be thought worthy ofbringing up and providing for by all thosethat had taken the most fatal resolutions, onaccount of their dread of his nativity, for thedestruction of the rest of the Hebrew nation.Thermuthis bid them bring her a Woman thatmight suckle the child, yet would not thechild admit of her breast, but turned awayfripm it, and did the like to many other women.Now. Miriam;Was by when this happened; notto appear to be there on purpose, but onlyas staying to see the child, and she'said, " It