OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL I. A laudable regard for the honour of the first proselytes, has countenancedthe belief, the hope, the wish, that the Ebionites, or at least the Nazarenes, weredistinguished only by their obstinate perseverance in the practice of the Mosaicrites. Their churches have disappeared, their books are obliterated; their ob­scure freedom might allow a latitude of faith, and the softness of their infant creedwould be variously moulded by the zeal or prudence of three hundred years. Yetthe most charitable criticism must refuse these sectaries any knowledge of thepure and proper divinity of Christ. Educated in- the school of Jewish prophecyand prejudice, they had never been taught to elevate their hopes above a humanand temporal Messiah. (1) If they had courage to hail their king when he ap­peared in a plebeian garb, their grosser apprehensions were incapable of discern­ing their God, who had studiously disguised his celestial character under the nameand person of a mortal. (2) The familiar companions of Jesus of Nazareth con­versed with their friend and countryman, who in all the actions of rational andanimal life, appeared of the same species with themselves. His progress frominfancy to youth and manhood was marked by a regular increase in stature andwisdom; and after a painful agony of mind and body, he expired on the cross. Helived and died for the service of mankind; but the life and death of Socrates hadlikewise been devoted to the cause of religion and justice; and although the stoicor the hero may disdain the humble virtues of Jesus, the tears which he shed overhis friend and country may be esteemed the purest evidence of his humanity. Themiracles of the gospel could not astonish a people who held with intrepid faith,the more splendid prodigies of the Mosaic law. The prophets of ancient dayshad cured diseases, raised the dead, divided the sea, stopped the sun, and ascend­ed to heaven in a fiery chariot. And the metaphorical style of the Hebrewsmight ascribe to a saint and martyr, the adoptive title of Son of God. Yet in the insufficient creed of the Nazarenes and the Ebionites, a distinction isfaintly noticed between the heretics, who confounded the generation of Christ inthe common order of nature, and the less guilty schismatics, who revered the vir­ginity of his mother, and excluded the aid of an earthly father. The incredulityof the former was countenanced by the visible circumstances of his birth; the le­gal marriage of his reputed parents, Joseph and Mary, and his lineal claim to thekingdom of David and the inheritance of Judah. But the secret and authentichistory has been recorded in several copies of the gospel according to St. Mat-thew,(3) which these sectaries long preserved in the original Hebrew(4) as the compress ? If I persist in supporting each fact or reflection by its proper and special evidence, every linewould require a string of testimonies, and every note would swell to a critical dissertation. But the number­less passages of antiquity which I have seen with my own eyes, are compiled, digested, and illustrated by Pe-tavius and Le Clerc^by Beausobre and Mosheim. I shall be content to fortify my narrative by the names andcharacters of these respectable guides; and, in the contemplation of a minute or remote object, lam notashamed to borrow the aid of the strongest glasses.—1. The Dogmata Theologica of Petavius. is a work of in­credible labour and compass; the volumes which relate solely to the incarnation (two folios, fifth and sixth, ofeigh't'hunilred and thirty-seven pages) are divided into sixteen books—the first of history, the remainder ofcontroversy and doctrine. The Jesuit's learning is copious and correct; his Latinity is pure, his method clear,his argument profound and well connected: but he is the slave of the fathers, the scourge of heretics, and theenemy of truth and candour, as often as they are inimical to the catholic cnuse. 2. The Arminian lie Cierc,who has composed, in a quarto volume, (Amsterdam, 1716.) the ecclesiastical history of the two first centuries,was free both in his temper and situation;_his sense is clear, bnt his thoughts are narrow; he reduce* the reason,or folly of ages to the standard of his private judgment; and his impartiality is sometimes quickened, andsometimes tainted, by his opposition to the fathers. See the heretics (Corinthians,) 80. Ebionites, 103. Cac-pocratians, 120. Vafentinians, 121. Basilidians, 123. Marrionites, 141, Ice. under their proper dates. 3. TheHistoire Critique du Manicheisme (Amsterdam. 1734. 1739. in two vols, in quarto, with a posthumous disserta­tion sur les Nazarenes, Lausanne, 1745 J of M. de Beausobre is a treasure of ancient philosophy and theology.The learned historian spins with incomparable art the systematic thread of opinion, and transforms himselfby turns into the person of a saint, a sage, or a heretic. Yet his refinement is sometimes excessive; he betraysan amiable partiality in favour of the weaker side, and while he guards against calumny,he does not allowsufficient scope for superstition and fanaticism. A copious table of contents will direct tile reader to any pointthat be wishes to examine. .4. Less profound than Petavius, less independent than Le Clerc, less ingeniousthan Beausobre, the historian Mosheim is full, rational, correct, and moderate. In his teamed work, De Re­bus Christianis ante Constantinum (Helmstadt, 1753, in quarto.) see the Nazarenes and Ebionites, p. 172—179.828—332.; the Gnostics in general, p. 173. &c. Cerinthus, p. 196—202; Basilides, p. 852—361; Carpocrates,'n.363—367; Valentinus, p. 371—389; Marcion, p. 404—410; the Manichaeans, p. 829—8S7, &c. (1) _Kae*^-ap ttzvtss y^tsti toi> Xp'TTOw ewSpwa-flv t5 xvbpv-jiv irpso-Soxcoptv yivxtrxTSxi,says the Jewish Tryphon, (Justin. Dialog, p. 207.) in the name of his countrymen; and the modern Jews, the few who divert theirthoughts from money to religion, still hold the same language, and allege the literal sense of the prophets. (2) Chrysostom (Basnage, Hist, des Juif"s, torn. v. c. 9. p. 183.) and Athanasius (Petav. Dogmat. Theolog. torn.t. lib. i. c. 2. p. 3.) are obliged to confess that the divinity of Christ is rarely mentioned by himself or hisapostles. (3) The two first chapters of St. Matthew did not exist in the Ebionite copies; (Epiphan. Hteres. 3o. 13.)arid the .miraculous conception is one of the last articles which Dr. Priestley has curtailed from his scantyCreed. (4) It is probable enough that the first of the gospels, for the use of the Jew ish converts, syas composed inthe Hebrew or Swiac idiom: the fact is attested by a chain of fathers—Papias, lrenxus, Origin, Jerome, si.It is devoutly bcEeveil by the catholics, and admitted by Casoubon, Grotius, and Isaac Vossius, among the