OCR Output M8 \ TITUS LIVIUS' Book II. suls to death, by that means to evade their military oath;but being told that no religious engagement could bedissolved by a crime, by the advice of one Sicinius,without any orders from the consuls, they withdrew tothe sacred mountain, on the other side of the'Anio, threemiles from Rome. This account meets with more credit than that of Piso,who makes it the Aventine hill. Here they fortifiedtheir camp with a moat and rampart, continued quiet forseveral days, though subject to no leader, neither gaveprovocation nor received it; and took nothing but whattheir subsistence barely required. The city was now in the utmost consternation; andboth parties being mutually afraid of each other, couldcome to no resolution that was decisive. The commons,who had been left in the city by their party, dreadedthe exasperated fathers, who, on the other hand, uncer­tain of their sentiments as to staying or going, wereequally afraid of them. It was a common question.How long will the seceders remain quiet} What wouldbe the consequence, were any foreign war to break outin the mean time? They were now sensible, that therewere no other means of saving the state, but by re-unit­ing it; and that for this reason, the people must be re­conciled and made their friends at any rate. Wherefore they agreed to send Menenius Agrippa,an excellent speaker, and very acceptable to the com­mons, being descended of a Plebeian family, as deputy tothe seceders. Being admitted into the camp, he is saidto have repeated the following fable, in the rough andunpolished manner of the times, without any other argu­ment. "Upon an occasion, (says he,) when members of"the human body were not on the same friendly foot-"ing as at present, and each member had a council and"language peculiar to itself, the other parts of the"body were in no small passion, that they should all-' sweat, toil, and labour for the belly, whilst it enjoyed"the pleasures provided for it in idleness and at ease."In consequence of all this, they conspired that the"hands should no longer carry food to the mouth, that"the mouth should not receive it, nor the teeth grind*' it. Whilst they were thus furiously intent upoh re-