OCR Output 438 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. retired to Antiochus, and informed him thatthey were desirous to leave the laws of theircountry, and the Jewish customs; and to fol­low the king's laws, and the Grecian mode ofliving. Wherefore they desired his permis­sion to build them a gymnasium at Jerusalem.Accordingly they left off all the customs thatbelonged to their own country, and imitatedthe practices of the other nations. Now Antiochus, upon the agreeable situa­tion of the affairs of his kingdom, resolved tomake an expedition against Egypt: both be­cause he had a desire to gain it, and becausehe contemned the sons of Ptolemy, as not yetof abilities to manage affairs of such conse­quence. So he came with great forces toPelusium, and circumvented Ptolemy Philo-metor by treachery, and seized upon Egypt.He then came to the places about Memphis;and when he had taken them, he hastenedto Alexandria, in hopes of taking it by siege,and of subduing Ptolemy, who reigned there.But he was driven not from Alexandria, butout of all Egypt by the declaration of theRomans, who charged him to let that countryalone. I will now give a particular accountof what concerns this king, how he subduedJudea and the temple. For in my formerwork I mentioned those things very brieflyand have therefore now thought it necessaryto go over that history again, and that withgreat accuracy. King Antiochus* returning out of Egypt,for ffear of the Romans, made an expeditionagainst the city of Jerusalem; and when hewas there, in the hundred and forty-thirdJyear of the kingdom of the Seleucidse, hetook the city without fighting; those of his own party opening the gates to him. Andwhen he had gotten possession of Jerusalem,he slew many of the opposite party; andwhen he had plundered it of a great deal ofmoney, he returned to Antioch. Now it came to pass, after two years, in thehundred and forty-fifth year, on the twenty,fifth day of that month, which is by us calledCasleu, and by the Macedonians, Apelleus;in the hundred and fifty-third Olympiad, thatthe king came up to Jerusalem; and pretend­ing peace, he got possession of the city bytreachery.|| At which time he spared not somuch as those that admitted him into it; onaccount of the riches that lay in the temple.But led by his covetous inclination, (for hesaw there was in it a great deal of gold, andmany ornaments that had been dedicated toit of very great value,) and in order to plun­der its wealth, he returned to break theleague he had made. So he left the templebare; and took away the golden candle­sticks, and the golden altar of incense, andtable of shew-bread, and the altar of burnt-offering; and did not abstain from even theveils, which were made of fine linen andscarlet. He also emptied it of its secrettreasures, and left nothing at all remaining;and by this means cast the Jews into greatlamentation. For he forbade them to offerthose daily sacrifices which they used tooffer to God, according to the law. Andwhen he had pillaged the whole city, someof the inhabitants he slew, and some he car­ried captive, together with their wives andchildren: so that the multitude of thosecaptives that were taken alive amounted toabout ten thousand. He also burnt down * Hereabout Josephug begins to follow the first Bookof the Maccabees; a most excellent and authentic his­tory. And accordingly it is here, with great fidelity andexactness, abridged by him. Between whose presentcopies there seem to be fewer variations than in any othersacred Hebrew book of the Old Testament whatsoever:(for this book also was originally written in Hebrew;)which is very natural: because it was written so muchnearer to the times of Josephus than the rest were. t What Josephus says here, that Antiochus returnedout of Egypt from his first expedition thither, out of fearof the Romans; if it refer to Popilius Laenas, and theother Roman ambassadors' peremptory threatnings, is agreat mistake; that not happening till two years after­wards at his second expedition. And that Antiochus nowassaulted Jerusalem, the 2d of the Maccabees says no­thing. But since the words before us may possibly referto some other cause of fear from the Romans, of which we know nothing from any other author now extant, wecannot, with any certainty, pronounce it to be a mistake.However, Spanheim takes notice of this second expeditionof Antiochus, as made mention of by Polybius, in Vale-siu9's Excerpta, page 132, and out of Polybius, by Dio-dorus Siculus, in the Supplement to those Excerps, page312. By whom, and by Dr. Hudson, we are referredfor his exclusion out of Egypt by the Romans to Livy.XIV. 18. and to Justin Histor. XXXIV. who give us re­markable accounts of it. See the places already cited.However, I cannot agree with Dean Prideaux, who mul­tiplies these two expeditions into Egypt into four, at theyear 171, 170, 169, 168, B. C. J See 1 Mace. i. 20. But verses 21, 22. contain whatJosephus ascribes to the second expedition of Antiochusagainst Jerusalem. I! 1 Mace. i. 29, 30.