OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. public: but on the proof or suspicion of guilt, the chap.slave, or the stranger, was nailed to a cross, and this xxxvnstrict and summary justice might be exercised with­out restraint over the greatest part of the populaceof Rome. Each family contained a domestic tribunal,which was not confined, like that of the prator, tothe cognizance of external actions: virtuous prin­ciples and habits were inculcated by the discipline ofeducation; and the Roman father was accountable tothe state for the manners of his children, since hedisposed, without appeal, of their life, their liberty,and their inheritance. In some pressing emergencies,the citizen was authorized to avenge his private orpublic wrongs. The consent of the Jewish, the Athe­nian, and the Roman laws, approved the slaughterof the nocturnal thief; though in open day-light arobber could not be slain without some previous evi­dence of danger and complaint. Whoever surprisedan adulterer in his nuptial bed might freely exercisehis revenge*; the most bloody or wanton outragewas excused by the provocation; nor was it beforethe reign of Augustus that the husband was reducedto weigh the rank of the offender, or that the parentwas condemned to sacrifice his daughter with herguilty seducer. After the expulsion of the kings, theambitious Roman who should dare to assume theirtitle, or imitate their tyranny, was devoted to the in­fernal gods: each of his fellow-citizens was armedwith a sword of justice; and the act of Brutus, how­ever repugnant to gratitude or prudence, had beenalready sanctified by the judgment of his country.The barbarous practice of wearing arms in the midstof peace, and the bloody maxims of honour, wereunknown to the Romans; and, during the two purest • The first speech of Lysias (Reiske, Orator. Graw. tom. v. p. 2 48), is in defence of a husband who had killed the adulterer. The right of husbands andfathers at Rome and Athens is discussed with much learning by Dr. Taylor (Lee,tiones Lysiacas, c. xi. in Reiske, tom. vi. p. 301—300). s3