OCR Output DOS TAURANIA. TASCIACA. Arruge, a branch of t he Garonne. This Tarasconis iu the Pays de Foix, and in a valley at the footof the Pyrenees, which circumstance seems to indi­cate mora probably the position of a small tribe orpeople than that of Tarascon on the Rhone. ThisTarascon on the Arriiye is mentioned in middleage documents under the name of Cast rum Tarasco,Pliny's Tarusconienses, or whatever may be the truename, are enumerated among the Oppida Latin ofNarbonensis. [G. L.] TASCIACA, a town in Gallia, placed by theTable between Avaricum (Dourgts) and Caesaro-duiium (Tours). The first station from Avaricumis Oaoris, supposed to be Chabris on the Cher,and the next is Tasciaca, supposed to be Tezte, alsoon the Cher. Hut the number xxiiii. placed in theTable at the name of Tasciaca, which numbershould represent the distance from Chabru to Tezee,is nearly the distance between Tezee and Tours,mid accordingly there is some error here. TheTable gives no distance between Tasciaca andCaesarodunum. (D'Anville, Notice; Ukert, Gal-lien) [G. L.] TASCOXI is the name uf a Gallic people in theNarbonensls, mentioned by Pliny (iii. 4), as thename is read in five MSS. There is a small river7"fscon or 'J'escou. which flows into the Tarn, nearMontauban, D'Anville. quotes a life of S. Tbso-dard, archbishop of Narbonne, which speaks of thisriver I s called Tasoo by the people of that part andas the limit between tlie territories of the Tolosani,or people of Toulouse, and the Caturcenses, or peo­ple of Cohort. Tins is a valuable passage, for itshows how far north the Narbonensis, to which theterritory of Toulouse belonged, extended in thispart of its frontier; and it also confirms the conjec­ture about the northern limits of the iluteni Provin-ciales [BuTKNl], who were also included in theNarbonensis. [G. L.] TASTA. [Oath.] TATTA LACUS (h Tarra), a large salt lake onthe frontiers between Lycaonia and Galatia; it hadoriginally belonged to Phrygia, but was afterwardsannexed to Lycaonia. Its waters were so impreg­nated with brine, that any substance dipped into it,was immediately incrusted with a thick coat of salt;even birds flying near the surface had their wingsmoistened with the saline particles, so as to becomeincapable of rising into the air, and to be easilycaught. (Strab. xii. p. 60S; Plin. xxxi. 41, 45; Dioscorid. v. 126.) Stephanos By*. (5. r. Borfsior) speaksof a salt lake in Phrygia, which he calls Attaea("Att£uci), near which there was a town calledBotieum, and which is probably the same as LakTatta. The Turks now call the lake Tuzfa, and itStill provides all the surrounding country with salt.(Leake, Asia Minor, p. 70.) [L. S.] TAUA. [Taum.] TAUA (Tava, Steph. B. s. v.; Taova, Ptol. iv. 5§ 50; Tabs, lUn. Ant. p. 153), a town in LowerAegypt, situated on the left bank of the Canopicarm of the Nile, S. of the city of Naucratis. It wasthe capital of the small Phthemphuthic Nome (Plin.v. 9. s. 9), and is supposed to be represented bythe present Thaonah. (D'Anville, Atemoire surVEgypU, vol. i. p. 82.) [W. li. P.] TAUCIII'RA or TKUCHI'KA (TavXuPa, Herod,iv. 171, et alii; Te^xcipo, Hierocl, p. 732; Plin. v.5. 8. 5, &c), a town on the coast of Cyrenaica,founded by Cyrene. It lay 200 Stadia W. of Plo-lemais. Under tlie Ptolemies it obtained the name of Arsinoe. (Strab. xvii. p. 836; Mek, LS; Ha,/. <*.) At a later period it became a Reran oAwr(Tub. Pad.), and was fortified by Jusucaa. (rVcop. de Acd. vi. 3.) Tauchira was parUroorir seatfor the worship of Cybele. in honour of wfeai aannual festival was celebrated. (Syncs. Ep. 1)is the same town erroneously written TaprjtePiodorus (xviii. 20). It is still called Totimn. (CIDelia Cella, Viagg. p. 193; Pacho, Fej184.) [T.H.D.]TA'VIUM (Taovov, Toiwr) or TAVU, s1in the central part of eastern Gilatia. at tarntance from the eastern bank of the river Bahv«the chief town of the Galatian tribe of tat Tnand a place of considerable commercial ibeing the point at which five or six of the frest nmet. (Plin. v. 42; Strab. xii. p. 567: Fait 4§ 9; Steph. B. /. v. *A7*b,«; HierocL p. OfcJAnt. pp. 201, 203.) It contained 1 teaafci~*colossal bronze statue of Zeus. Leake (Asia Ip. 311) is strongly inclined to believe tint Tskoccupies the site of ancient Taviam; but V(Researches, i. p. 379, &c.) and most «ear|graphers, with much more probability, rrrxrilruins of BogkoM Kvtui, 6 leagues to the 1of Jazgat or Juzghat, as the remains flf'They are situated on the slope of lofty Irocks of limestone, some of which axe aAxnsissculptures in relief. There are aLo the Iof an immense building, which are belief 1remains of the temple of Zeus. (Coup. I"in tlie Journal of the Roy. Gtogr. Soc rril74, foil.; Cramer, Asia Minor, ii. p.98.) TAIJLA'NTII (TouAo>t««, PloL in. ll||people of Roman Illyria, in the neisXKpidamnns and Dyrrachium. Iniwere a powerful tribe, possessing several cgoverned by their own kings, butwere reduced to subjection by the kings af 1and at the time when the Romans wacedaatTeuta they had sunk into insignificant*.Thucyd. i. 24; Arrian, Anah. L 5; aUa,ILiv. xlv. 26; Plin. iii. 22. s. 26.)that they had a met hi" J of preparine: 1honev. (Mir. Ausc t. ii. p. 716.) [T-l TAUM, TAUS, or TAVA (T««*frx"*Jii. 3. § 5), a bay on the £. coast of Britaara I(Tac. Apr. 22.) Now Frith of lam [T-l TAUM (AD), a place in the SE. ef V"Komana, in the territory of the Ioeti (Tat JProbably Yarmouth. [T.fi.1 TAUNUS MONS, a range of hilb n 1Germany, beginning near the river Nker (Stand running northward till they reach ths [where the Moenus (.1/a«a) joins tt«(Pomp. Mela, iii. 3; Tac, Am*. I 56* JThis range of hills still bears its ana"though it is sometimes simply called latiis, the Height, Taunus being pn-baUy ta* Iword Dun or Daun, which signifies a Ivarious places along tuis rang* afinscriptions have been fonnd, in which (nenses are mentioned, from which it may -< -that there once existed a town of tb* 1Taunus. (Orelli, InscripL nos. IS1,4*SL^Wilhelm, Gmnanien^ p. 44.) [Li TAUKA'NIA, a town of Campama.only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9) as having ■ baltirely disappeared, like Stabiae, He a3tr4>ato its position. The name of Taaraina{is found also in the older editions at SesfftaVaS