OCR Output 144' LATMUS. LAVIANESINE. stadia, and its whole length, from Miletus to He-racleia, 100 stadia. (Strab. xiv. p. 635.) The baynow exists only as an inland lake, its mouth havingbeen closed up by the deposits brought down by theMaeander, a circumstance which has misled somemodern travellers in those parts to confound thelake of Bajfi, the ancient Latmic gulf, with the lakeof Mvus. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 239; Chandler,c. 53.) [L. S.] LATMUS (Actr/ior), a mountain of Can a, risingat the heail of the Latmic bay, and stretching alongin a north-western direction. (Strab. xiv. p. 635;Apollon. Khod. iv. 57; Plin. v. 31: Pomp. Mel. i.17.) It is properly the western offshoot of MountAlbanus or Alhacus. Tliis mountain is probablyalluded to by Horner (IL ii. 868), when he speaksof the mountain of the I'hthirians, in the neighbour­hood of Miletus. In Greek mythology, MountLatmus is a place of some celebrity, being describedas the place where Artemis (Luna) kissed thesleeping Kndymion. In later times there existed onthe mountain a sanctuary of Kndymion, and his tombwas shown in a cave, (Apollod. i. 7.§5; Hygin. Fab.871 ; Ov. Trut it. 299; VaL Flacc, iii. 28; Pans,v. 1. § 4; Stat. Sitv. iii. 4. § 40.) [L. S.] LATO. [Camara.] LATOUKUil When the Helvetii determined toleave their country (b. c. 58), they persuaded " theRauraci, and Tulingi and latobrigi, who were theirneighbours, to adopt the same resolution, and afterburning their towns and villages to join their ex­pedition." (Caes. B. G. i. 5.) The number of theTulingi was 36,000 : and of the Latobrigi 14,000.(/?. G. i. 29.) As there is no place for the Tulingiand Latobrigi within the limits of Gallia, we mustlook east of the Rhine for their country. Walckenaer(Giog. Ac, vol. i. p. 559) supposes, or rather con­siders it certain, that the Tulingi were in the districtof Thu-ngen and Stuhltngcn in liatlen, and the I-a-tobrigi about fJotuiuetchinyen, where the Briggachand the Brrgge join the Danube. Tins opinionis founded on resemblance of names, and on the factthat these two tribes must have been cast of theKhinc. If the Latobrigi were Celtae, the name ofthe people may denote a position on a river, for theCeltic word ** brig" is a ford or the passage of ariver. If the Latobrigi were a Germanic people,then the word " brig " ought to have some modernname corresponding to it, and Walckenaer finds thiscorrespondence in the name Brugge, a small placeon the Brrgge. [G. L] LATO'POLIS or LATO (AotoVoA.j, Strab. xvii.pp. 812, 817; t6\h Adw, PtoL iv. 5. § 71;Adrrmf, Hierocl. p. 732; J tin. Anttmin. p. 160),the modern Etntk, was a city of Upper Egypt,seated upon the western bank of the Kile, in lat.25° 30' N. It derived ite name from the fish Lato,the liirg«»t of the 6 fly-two species which inhabit theNile (Kusscgger, lieuen, vol. i. p. 300), and whichappears in sculptures, among the symbols of thegoddess Xeith, Pal las- Athene, surrounded by theoval shield or ring indicative of royalty or divinity(Wilkinson, M. and C. vol. v. p. 253). The tute­lary deities of Latopolis seem to have been the triad,—Kneph or Chnuphis, Keith or Sate, and Hak, theiroffspring. The temple was remarkable for the beautyof its site and the magnificence of its architecture.It was built of red sandstone; and its portico con­sisted of six rows of four columns each, with lotus-leaf capitals, all of which however differ from eachether. (Deuon, Voyage, vol. I p. 148.) But with the exception of the jamb of a gateway—now me-verted into a door-sill—of the reigu of Tholhrues lid.(xviiith dynasty), the remains of Latopolis belongto the Macedonian or Roman eras. Ptolemy Erw-getes, the restorer of so many temples in UpperEgypt, was a benefactor to Latopolis, aud he ispainted upon the walls of its temple followed by atame lion, and in the act of striking down the chief*of his enemies. The name of Ptolemy Kpiphane*is found also inscribed upon a doorway. Yet,although from their scale these ruins are impounc,their sculptures and hieroglyphics attest the declineof Aegyptian art. The pronaos, which alone exists,resembles in style that of Apollinopolis Magna(Edfoo), and was begun not earlier than the reignof Claudius (a. t>. 41 —54), and completed in thaiof Vespasian, whose name and titles are carved onthe dedicatory inscription over the ent ance. Onthe ceiling of the pronaos is the larger Lat"f»litanZodiac. The name of the emperor Geta, the lastthat is read in hieroglyphics, although |*rt.iahyerased by his brother and murderer Caracal la (a. i>.212), is still legible on the walls of I-itopolu.Before raising their own edifice, the Itomaus set-oito have destroyed even the basements of the earlierAegyptian temple. There was a smaller temple, de­dicated to the same deities, about two miles anda half X. of Latopolis, at a village now calledK'Dayr. Here, too, is a small Zodiac of the age ofPtolemy Evergetes (n. c. 246—221). This Utterbuilding has been destroyed within a few Tears,as it stood in the way of a new canal. The templeof Ktneh has been cleared of the soil and ruhbt-hwhich filled its area when Denon visited it. and nowserves for a cotton warehouse. (Lepsiua, Finieitumg,p. 63.) lhe modern town of Emrh is the emporium o/the Abyssinian trade. Its camel-market is muchresorted lo, aud it inntains manufactories of cot­tons, shawls, and pottery. Its population is about4000. [W. B. D-] LATOVICI (AaT<f*«oi, Ptol. ii. 15. § 2), • tribein the south-western part of I'annonia, on the rrrerSaras. (Plin. iii. 28.) Ther appear to bare beena Celtic tribe, and a place Praetoriam Laloricortunis mentioned in their country by the Aiil<ainc Itine­rary, on the road from Aetnona tu Sinuium, prrliap.on the site of the modern Nttutatitl, in lilyna.(Comp. Zeuss, die DeuUekn, p. 256.) [1—">.JLATU'KUS SINUS. [Maibktakia.]LA'VARA. [Lisitania.]LAVATRAE, a station in Britain, on the roadfrom Londinium to Lngurallum, near the wall a/lluiirian, distant, according to one paasai.'e in th*Autoninc Itin., 54 miles, according to another, 59miles, from Eboracuin, and 55 miles from Lanjra-Tullum. (Anton. Itin. pp. 468, 476.) Perhapsthu same as Bouxs, on the river Orrta, iu thaNorth Hiding of Yorkshire. The church of Botrrmcontaineil in the time of Camden a liewn alah,bearing an inscription dedicatory to the Ruoiaaemperor Hadrian, and there used fur the commonimtable. In the neighbourhoud of Bows, there are Useremains of a Roman camp and of an aqueduct. LAU'GONA, the modem LaJtn. a rirer of Ger­many, on the east of the Rhine, into whirh it etnptinit-self at l^ahiutrin, a few miles above Cuolras. Tba*ancients praise it for it* clear water (Vrnant Fort.riii. 7; tieogr. Bar. iv. 24, where it is calledLogna. f I. S.] LAVIANKSINE or LAVIKIANESINK (A*-