OCR Output 174 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774. war; and the dispute continued till Varro, rmdinghimself impaired by age, gave up the point to Silius,who was then in the vigour of his days. XLIV. Meanwhile a report prevailed at Rome, thatnot only the /Eduans and the Treviri, but severalother cities of Gaul, to the number of sixty-four, hadthrown off the yoke. Germany, it was added, hadjoined the league; and Spain was wavering. Therumour, as usually happens, was magnified by thecredulity of the populace. Good men felt for theircountry; the greater part, detesting the present sys­tem, and wishing for nothing so much as a change,enjoyed the confusion, and triumphed in the commondanger. Invective did not spare Tiberius. w In a" difficult and alarming crisis, he was busy in settling" the forms of some new prosecution. Did he mean"to proceed by way of information against Julius" Sacrovir? Was that chieftain to be accused of vio-" lated majesty ? The revolt plainly showed that there" still existed men of undaunted valour, who were" resolved, at the point of the sword, to defy his let-" ters written in blood to the senate; and war, with" all its dangers, was preferable to a sanguinary" peace, under a despotic tyrant." Amidst thesemurmurs of discontent, Tiberius appeared with anunruffled temper, never once changing his look, hisplace of abode, or his habits of life. Is this to be as­cribed to magnanimity ? or did he know by secret in­telligence, that the whole was either false, or magni­fied beyond the truth? XLV. Silius, in the mean time, having sent beforehim a body of auxiliaries, marched at the head of twolegions into the territory of the Sequanians, a peopleat the extremity of Gaul, bordering on the jEduans,and confederates in the war. He laid waste the coun­try and proceeded, by rapid marches, to Augustodu-num. Nothing could equal the ardour of the legions:the standard-bearers with emulation gave every proofof their alacrity; the common soldiers declared, withone voice, that they wanted no repose: the nightought not to be lost in sleep; let them but see theenemy, they asked no more; victory was sure to fol­