OCR Output LIGER. 183 LIGUniA. gri," for the ablative also occur in Caesar's text.The form Atyttp occurs in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 2), andin Stepbanus Byz. (i. v. B«'x«p), who has alsoAiyvpjs (s. v. Afyvpts'), with a remark that theLigures, who border on the Tyrrhem, derive theirname from the river Ligyrus. Dion Casaius (xxxix.40, xiiv. 42 ; and the notes of Rennarus), has the*horter form Aiypos. Lucan (i. 438) is generallycited as authority for the Roman quantity of the word: "In nebulis Meduana tuis marcerc pcrosusAnd u» jam placida Ligeris recreatur ab unda." But these verses are spurious. (See the Notes inOailondorp's edition.) According to Strubo, theLoire rUes in the Cecennes (ra, Kefificva), andfc-ws into the ocean. But he is mistaken as to thecoarse of the Loire, for lie makes both the Garumnaaid the Ligyr flow parallel to the Pyrenees; and hewas farther mistaken in supposing the axis of thePyrenees to be south and north. [Gallia Tkans-AU-iXA, voL i. p. 949.] He estimates the navigablepurl of each river at 2000 stadia; but the Loire isa much longer river than the Caroline. He saysthat the Loire flows past Genabum {Orleans), andthat Genabum is situated about half way betweenthe commencement of the navigable part of the riverand its outlet, which lies between the territory of thePiciones on the south, and the territory of theNanmetes on the north; all which is correct enough.(Strab. iv. pp. 189, 190, 191.) He adds that therewas a trailing place (ifiiroptiov), named Corbilo[Corbilo], on the river, which Polybius speaks of.It appears that Strabo did not distinguish the Elaver(AUter) from the Loire, for he says: "the Arverniare situated on the Liger, and their chief city isNemossus, which lies on the river; and this river,flowing past Genabum, the trading town of the Car­dites, which is situated about the middle of theMvigable part, discharges itself into the ocean"(p. 191). But Nemossus is near the Allier. Cae>ar was acquainted both with the Elaver (vii.34, 35) and the river properly called the Loire.He crossed the Elaver on his march to Gergovia.[Geeoovia.] He remarks that the Allier una notgenerally fundable before the autumn; and in anotherplace (B. G. vii 55) he describes his passage overthe Loire at a season when it was swollen by themelted snow. When Caesar was preparing for hisiaral warfare with the Veneti, he had ships built«i the Loire. (B. G. iii. 9.) He does not tell uswhere he built them, but it may have been in thecountry of the Andes or Andecavi, which be held atthat time. Of the four passages which were made in Strabo'stime from Gallia to Britannia, one was from thettwrnth of the Ijoire; and this river was one line ofcarmrtfTcia] communication between the Provinciaarxl Britannia. Goods were taken by land from therruvineia to the Loire, and then carried down theLoire. (Strab. it. p* 189.) Pliny (iv. 18) calls thehxre "tinmen cl.irum,"* which Eorbiger explainsby the word* "clear stream;" but this does not»»*m to be what Pliny means. Tibullus (i. 7,11)ays, "Testis Arar Rhodanusque celer magnusque Ga­rumna,Caranti et flavi caerula lympha Liger." This seems to be all that the ancient geographershave >ayl of the Loire. The Klaver (Allirr) risesu Hnna Lennra (Mont iAtzere), not very far from the source of the Loire, and on the north-west sideof the Cevennes. It flows north through the fertileLimagne dAuvergne, and after a course of about200 miles joins the Loire at Noviodunum or Ne-virnum (Nevers). The Loire rises in Mont Mezcne,and flows north to its junction with the Allier in avalley between the valley of the AlUer and the basinof the Rlione. From Never* the course of the Loireis north-west to Genabum (Orleans); and fromOrleans it has a general west course to the ocean,whicli it enters below Nantes. The whole length ofthe river is above 500 miles. Several large riversflow into it on the left side below Orleans; and theMayenne on the right side below Tours. The areaof this rjver-basin is 50,000 square miles, or asmuch as the area of England. The drainage fromthis large surface passes through one channel intothe sea, and when the volume of water is increasedby great rains it causes inundations, and does greatdamage [G. L.~l Ll'GUEES. [Ltguria.] LI'GURES BAEBIA'Nl ET COENELIA'NI[ Hi r rati.] LIGU'KIA (Aiyovpia, Ptol.;butin earlier Greekwriters always rj Aiyuo-rticf): the people werecalled by the Greeks Aryves, but by later writersAtyvtrrlvoi: by the Romans Ligures; but the ad­jective form is Ligustinus), one of the provincesor regions of Northern Italy, extending along the N.coast of the Tyrrhenian sea, from the frontiers ofGaul to those of Etruria. In the more precise anddefinite sense in which the name was employed fromthe time of Augustus, and in which it is used by thegeographers (Strabo, Pliny, Ptolemy, &c), Liguriawas bounded by the river Varus on the W., and bythe Macra on the E., while towards the N. it extendedacross the chain of the Maritime Alps and Apenninesas far as the river Padua. The Trebia, one of theconfluents of the Padus on its right bank, appears tohave formed the limit which separated Liguria fromGallia Cispadana. In this sense, Liguria constitutedthe ninth region of Italy, according to the divisionof Augustus, and its boundaries were fixed by thatmonarch. (Pint. iii. 5. s. 7; Strab. v. p. 218; Mel.ii. 4. § 9; Ptol. iii, 1. § 3.) But Liguria, in its original sense, as "the landof the Ligurians," comprised a much more exten­sive tract. All the earliest authors are agreed inrepresenting the tribes that occupied the westernslopes of the Maritime Alps and the region whichextends from thence to the sea at Massilia, and asfar as the mouths of the Rhone, as of Ligurian,and not Gaulish origin. Thus Aeschylus repre­sents Hercules as contending with the Ligurianson the stony plains near the mouths of the Rhone,Herodotus speaks of Ligurians inhabiting the countryabove Massilia, and Hecataeus distinctly calls Mas­silia itself a city of Liguria, while he terms Narbo acity of Gaul. Scylax also assigns to the Liguriansthe coast of the Mediterranean sea as far as themouths of the Rhone; while from that river toEmporium in Spain, he tells us that the Liguriansand Iberians were intermingled. The Helisyci, who,according to Avienus, were the earliest inhabitantsof the country around Narbo, were, according toHecataeus, a Ligurian tribe. (Aeschyl. ap. Strab.iv. p. 183; Hccat. Fr. 19, 20, 22, ed. Klausen;Herod, v. 9; Scyl.p.2. §§3,4; Avien. Or. MariL584; Strab. iy. p. 203.) Thucydides also speaksof the Ligurians having expelled the Sicanians, anIberian tribe from the banks of the river Siconus, in n4