OCR Output Chap. VIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 273 and about two thousand fled to a certain little hill, but the thou­sand that remained with Aristobulus brake' through the Romanarmy, and marched together to Macherus; and, when the kinghad lodged the first night upon its ruins, he was in hopes of rai­sing another army, if the war would but cease a while ; accor­dingly, he fortified that strong hold, though it were ilone after apoor manner. But, the Romans falling upon him. he resisted,even beyond his abilities, for two days, and then was taken, andbrought a prisoner to Gabinius, with Antigonus his son, who hadfled away together with him from Rome, and from Gabinus hewas carried to Rome again. Wherefore the senate put him.under confinement, but returned his children back to Judea, be­cause Gabinius informed them by letters, that he had promised'Aristobulus's mother to do so, for her delivering the fortressesup to him. 1. But now as Gabinius was marching to the war against theFarthians, he was hindered by Ptolemy, whom, upon his returnfrom Euphrates, he brought back into Egypt, making use ofHyrcanus and Antipatcr, to provide every thing that was neces­sary for this expedition ; for Antipater furnished him with mo­ney, and weapons, and corn, and auxiliaries ; he also prevailedwith the Jews that were there, and guarded the avenues at Pe-lusium, to let them pass. But now, upon Gabinius's absence, theother part of Syria was in motion, and Alexander, the son ofAristobulus, brought the Jews to revolt again. Accordingly, hegot together a very great army, and set about killing all the Ro­mans that were in the country ; hereupon Gabinius was afraid,(for he was come back already out of Egypt, and obliged tocome back quickly by these tumults), and sent Antipater, whoprevailed with some of the revoltersto be quiet. However, thir­ty thousand still continued with Alexander, who was himselfeager to fight also ; accordingly, Gabinius went out to fight, whenthe Jews met him, and, as the battle was fought near Mount Ta­bor, ten thousand of them were slain, and the rest of the multi­tude dispersed themselves, and fled away. So Gabinius came toJerusalem, and settled the government as Antipater would haveit ; thence he marched, and fought and beat the Nabateans ; asfor Mithridates and Orsanes, who fled out of Parthia, he sentthem away privately, but gave it out among the soldiers thatthey had run away. 8. In the mean time, Crassus came as successor to Gabinius inSyria. He took away all the rest of the gold belonging to thetemple of Jerusalem, in order to furnish himself for his expedi­tion against the Parthians. He also took away the two thousandtalents which Pompey had not touched ; but when he had passed VOL. III. M m over