OCR Output 146 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. CHAP. VIII. OF THE CONTINUED SUCCESSES OF THE MACCABEES. WHEN these things were over, the na­tions round about the Jews werevery uneasy at the revival of their power;and rose up together, and destroyed many ofthem: as gaining advantage over them bylaying snares for them, and making secretconspiracies against them.* Judas made per­petual expeditions against these men: andendeavoured to restrain them from those in­cursions, and to prevent the mischiefs theydid to the Jews. So he fell upon the Idume-ans, the posterity of Esau, at Acrabattene;and slew a great many of them; and tooktheir spoils. He also shut up the sons ofBean, that laid wait for the Jews; and he satdown about them, and besieged them; andburnt their towers, and destroyed the menthat were in them. After this he went thencein haste against the Ammonites; who had agreat and a numerous army; of which Timo-theus was the commander. And when hehad subdued them, he seized on the city Ja-zer, and took their wives and their childrencaptives, and burnt the city, and then return­ed into Judea. But when the neighbouringnations understood that he was returned, theyassembled, in great numbers, in the land ofGilead; and came against those Jews thatwere at their borders: who then fled to thegarrison of Dathema, and sent to Judas toinform him, that Timotheus was endeavour­ing to take the place whither they were fled.And as soon as these epistles were reading,there came other messengers out of Galilee,who informed him, that the inhabitants ofPtolemais, and of Tyre, and Sidon, and stran­gers of Galilee, were gotten together. Accordingly Judas, upon considering whatwas proper to be done, with relation to thenecessity both these cases required, gave or­der, that his brother Simon should take threethousand chosen men, and go to the assist­ance of the Jews in Galilee: while he andanother of \m brothers, Jonathan, made hasteinto the land of Gilead, with eight thousandsoldiers. And he left Joseph, the son ofZacharias, and Azarias, to be over the restof the forces, and charged them to keep Ju- * 1 Mace. v. 1, 2. dea very carefully, and to fight no battleswith any person, until his return. According­ly Simon went into Galilee, and tought theenemy and put them to flight, and pursuedthem to the very gates of Ptolemais; andslew about three thousand of them; and tookthe spoils of those that were slain, and thoseJews whom they had made captives, withtheir baggage: and then returned home. Now as for Judas Maccabeus, and hisbrother Jonathan, they passed over the riverJordan:f and when they had gone three days'journey, they met with the Nabateans, whocame to meet them peaceably, and told themhow the affairs of those in the land of Gileadstood; and how many of them were in distress,and driven into garrisons, and into the cities ofGalilee; and exhorted him to make haste togo against the foreigners, and to endeavourto save his own countrymen out of theirhands. Accordingly Judas returned into thewilderness: and in the first place fell uponthe inhabitants of Bosor; and took the city,and beat the inhabitants, and destroyed allthe males, and all that were able to fight;and burnt the city. Nor did he stop evenwhen night came on, but he journeyed in it tothe garrison where the Jews happened to beshut up; and where Timotheus lay round theplace with his army. And Judas came uponthe city in the morning: and when he foundthat the enemy were making an assault uponthe walls; and that some of them broughtladders, on which they might get upon thosewalls, and that others brought engines to bat­ter them; he bade the trumpeter sound histrumpet, and encouraged his soldiers to un­dergo dangers cheerfully for the sake of hisbrethren and kindred: he also parted his ar­my into three bodies, and fell upon the backsof their enemies. But when Timotheus's menperceived that it was Maccabeus that wasupon them: of whose courage and good suc­cess in war they formerly had sufficient ex­perience; they were put to flight. But Judasfollowed them with his army, and slew abouteight thousand of them. He then turnedaside to a city of the foreigners, calledMalle, and took it, and slew all the males,and burnt the city itself. He then removedfrom thence, and overthrew Casphom, and t 1 Mace. t. 24.