OCR Output • OF ROME.. 421 the town: then he began a contention with his coun- BOOKtrymen, inftead of the ^iquans, and having pro- . '^claimed, during the aflault, that the plunder mould Y.R. 34T.be given to the foldiers, when he got pofieifion of B.C. 411.the town, he broke his word. This, I am inclinedto believe, was the caufe of the anger of the armyagainft him, rather than their finding lefs booty thanthe tribune had reprefented, in a new colony, and atown which had been facked a fhort time before.Their anger was farther inflamed on his return tothe city, whither he had been fummoned by his col­leagues, on account of feditions raifed by the ple­beian tribunes, by an exprefiion which he was heardto utter in an afiembly of the people, which fhewedgreat weaknefs, or rather a degree of infanity. OnSextius, the plebeian tribune, propofing an agrarianlaw, and at the fame time declaring that lie wouldalfo propofe the fending of a colony to Volae, be-caufe thofe men deferved to enjoy the city and landsof Volae, who had gained pofieffion of them by theirarms, he exclaimed, "Woe to my foldiers, at leaft,"if they are not quiet." Which words gave notgreater offence to the afiembly, than they did foonafter to the patricians, when they heard them j andthe plebeian tribune, a keen man, and not deftituteof eloquence, having found among his adverfariesthis haughty temper and ungoverned tongue, which,by provoking and teafing, he might drive into fuchexpreflions as would excite general indignation, notonly againft his particular perfon, but again!! thewhole body and their caufe, drew none of the col­lege of military tribunes into difputes, more fre­quently than Poftumius. But now, on fuch a bar-'barous and inhuman expreffion, he remarked, " Do"ye hear him, citizens! denouncing woe to foldiers"as he would to flaves? and yet this brute will be"judged by you more deferving of that high office"than thole who iend you into colonies, and enrich*' you with lands and cities; who provide a fettle- E E 3 "menr.