OCR Output Chap. I. WARS «F THE JEWS. 359 2. Upon this the multitude were pleased, and presently made9. trial of what he intended, by asking great things of him; forsome made a clamour that he would ease them in their taxes,others, that he would take off the duties upon commodities, andsome, that he would loose those that were in prison; in all whichcases he answered readily to their satisfaction, in order to getthe good-will of the multitude; after which he offered [the pro­per] sacrifices, and feasted with his friends. And here it wasthat a great many of those that' desired innovations came incrowds towards the evening, and began then to mourn on theirown account, when the public mourning for the king was over.These lamented those that were put to death by Herod, becausethey had cut down the golden eagle that had been over the gateof the temple. Nor was this mourning of a private nature, butthe lamentations were very great, the mourning solemn, andthe weeping such as was loudly heard all over the city, as beingfor those men who had perished for the laws of their country,and for the temple. They cried out, that a punishment oughtto be inflicted for these men upon those that were honoured byHerod, and that, in the first place, the man whom he had madehigh-priest should be deprived, and that it was fit to choose aperson of greater piety and purity than he was. 3. At these clamours Archelaus was provoked, but restrainedhimself from taking vengeance on the authors, on account of thehaste he was in of going to Rome, as fearing lest, upon his mak­ing war on the multitude, such an action might detain him athome. Accordingly, he made trial to quiet the innovators bypersuasion, rather than by force, and sent his general in a pri.vate way to them, and by him exhorted them to be quiet. Butthe seditious threw stones at him, and drove him away, as hecame into the temple, and before he could say any thing to them.The like treatment they shewed to others, who came to themafter him, many of which were sent by Archelaus, in order toreduce them to sobriety, andthese answered still on all occasionsafter a passionate manner; and it openly appeared that theywould not be quiet, if their numbers were but considerable.And indeed, at the feast of unleavened bread, which was nowat hand, and is by the Jews called the Passover, and used to becelebrated with a great number of sacrifices, an innumerablemultitude of the people came out of the country to worship:some of these stood in the temple bewailing the Rabbins [thathad been put to death J, and procured their sustenance by beg­ging, in order to support their sedition. At this Archelaus wasaffrighted, and privately sent a tribune, with his cohort of sol­diers upon them, before the disease should spread over the whole