OCR Output PREFACE. Mr. Hobbes declares in his Preface, that " the virtues of" this author so took his affection, that they begot in him aM desire to communicate him further." He considered also,that " he was exceedingly esteemed of the Italian and French" in their own tongues, notwithstanding that he be not very" much beholding for it to his interpreters." He says after­wards, that, by the first translation of Nicholls from theFrench of Seyssel, "he became at length traduced rather" than translated into our language ;" alluding perhaps to theItalian sarcasm on translators, Traduttore traditore. He thenresolved himself " to take him immediately from the Greek" —knowing, that when with diligence and leisure I should" have done it, though some errors might remain, yet they" would be errors but of one descent; of which nevertheless" (says he) I can discover none, and hope they be not" many. Mr. Hobbes, however sorry and mischievous a philoso­pher, was undoubtedly a very learned man. He hath shewnit beyond dispute in his translation of Thucydides. He isan excellent help, for any one who consults him, to find outthe meaning and adjust the sense. But, though his transla­tion hath now passed through three editions, and hath pro­fitably been read by many, yet (I speak not from my ownprivate judgment) he cannot now be read with any compe­tent degree of pleasure. He is faithful, but most servilelyso, to the letter of his author. Even in the orations, he mere­ly acts the interpreter, and hath quite forgot the orator. Hetranslates literally throughout, and numbers rather thanweighs the words of Thucydides. By this means the con­struction is very often intricate and confused, the thoughtspregnant with sense are not sufficiently opened, nor the glow­ing ideas of the author or his orators transfused with properdegrees of warmth and light. Too scrupulous an attachmentto the letter of die original hath made the copy quite flat andheavy, the spirit is evaporated, the lofty and majestic air hathintirely disappeared. Too many low and vulgar expressions.