OCR Output RHEGIUM. RHEGIUM. 705 kcaaJon the siege. (Ib. 100.) The next year (b.c.HI fait great victory over the confederate forcesI •■ Itsjwt Greeks at the river Helorua left himart* to prosecute his designs against Rhegium-Jt«t apposition: the Rhegians in vain endeavoured'rat the danger by submitting to a tribute ofw titauv, and b* surrendering all their ships, 70i: rrbrr. Br these concessions they obtained onlyfrKsrvns truce, which Dionyaius found a pretextr t imkiog the very next year, and laid siege to ■ dry with all his forces. The Khegians, under> cu.nand of a general named Phyton, made aisnti resistance, and were enable I to prolongar krtact for eleven months, but were at length■Dt'lai to surrender, after having Buffered thetat extremities of famine (b. c. 387). Theptnaj inhabitants were sold as slaves, theirmat Pay ton put to an ignominious death, andts' haetf totally destroyed. (Diod.xiv. 106—108,-..IS. Sbab. vi. p. 258; Pseud.-Arist. Oecun. IWtt a as doubt that Rhegium never fully rc-asa iaa great calamity; but so important a siteM ast long- remain unoccupied. The younger■axes partially restored the city, to which he» to name of Phoebias, but the old name soona arvaiied. (Strab. I. c.) It was occupied withBaa by the despot, but in B.C. 351 it wasaaa and taken by the Syracusan commandersi»s and Callippos, the garrison driven out, andam restored to independence. (Diod. xvi. 45.)ax tary were, a few years later (b. c. 345), ■ the foremost to promise their assistance to■be. who halted at Rhegium on his way to'. and from thence, eluding the vigilance of thesarcajcs by a stratagem, crossed over to Tau-tawa. (Diod. xri. 66, 68; Pint Tim*. 9, 10.)litis tune we hear no more of Rhegium, tillajtai of Pyrrhns in Italy (b. o. 280), when it anna the scene of a memorable catastrophe,nsaai on that occasion, viewing with appre-Mtto progress of the king of Epirus, and dis-% the Carthaginians, had recourse to theEexssaaee, and received into their city as ajjs, s body of Campanian troops, 4000 inr. siier the command of an officer namedI Bat these troops had not been long in pos-ben they were tempted to followof their countrymen, the Mamertincs,tide of the strait; and they took advan-d attempt at defection on the partto make a promiscuous massacre ofwhile they reduced the womenfees te> slavery, and established themselvesiter of the town. (Pol. i. 7; Ores. JjjiiL. Himnit. iii. 9 ; Diod. xxii. Exc. II.. £jr. Vala, p. 562; Dion Cass. Fr. 40. 7;|a JM.) The Romans were unable toxsbbb for this act of treachery so long as theywith the war againBt Pyrrbus; andfor some years continued to reap«f ttoir crime. But as soon as PyrrhussSt wvrhdrawn from Italy, the Romans turnedaaa* spiwT their rebellious soldiers; and inK sxexaaj actively supported by Uieron ofFtaas caoaul Genncius succeeded in re-■■xrftmzn by force, though not till after assl Great part of the Campanians perishedtrxaezr; the nst were executed by order of«u people. (Poi. i. 6,7; Oros. iv. 3; Dionys.C ids. 1, xx. 7.) Rhegium was now restored to the survivors of itsformer inhabitants (Pol. i. 7; Liv. xxxi. 31;pian, I.e.); but it must have suffered severely, anddoes not seem to have again recovered its formerprosperity. Its name is hardly mentioned duringthe First Punic War, but in the second the citizensdistinguished themselves by their fidelity to theRoman cause, and repeated attempts of Hannibal to yCmake himself master of the city were uniformlyrepulsed. (Liv. xxiii. 30, xxiv. 1, xxvi. 12, xxix. 6.)From this time the name of Rhegium is rarely men­tioned in history under the Roman Republic ; butwe learn from several incidental notices that it con­tinued to enjoy its own laws and nominal liberty asa "foederata civitas," though bound, in commonwith other cities in the same condition, to furnishan auxiliary naval contingent as often as required.(Liv. xxxi. 31, xxxv. 16, xxxvi. 42.) It was nottill after the Social War that the Rhegians, like theother Greek cities of Italy, passed into the conditionof Roman citizens, and Rhegium itself became aRoman Municipium. (Cic. Kerr. iv. 60, Phil i. 3,pro Arch. 3.) Shortly before this (d. c. 91) thecity had suffered severely from an earthquake, whichhad destroyed a large part of it (Strab. vi. p. 258;Jul. Obseq. 114); but it seems to have, in greatmeasure, recovered from this calamity, and is men­tioned by Appian towards the close of the Republicas one of the eighteen flourishing cities of Italy,which were promised by the Triumvirs to theirveterans as a reward for their services. (Appian,B. C. ir. 3.) Rhegium, however, had the goodfortune to escape on this occasion by the personalfavour of Octavian (Ib. 86); and during the warwhich followed between him and Sextus Pompeius,B. c. 38—36, it became one of the most importantposts, which was often made by Octavian the head­quarters both of his fleet and army. (Strab. vi.p. 258; Appian, B. C. v. 81,84; Dion Cass, xhrai18, 47.) To reward the Rhegians for their serviceson this occasion, Augustus increased the population,which was in a declining state, by the addition of abody of new colonists; but the old inhabitants werenot expelled, nor did the city assume the title of aColonia, though it adopted, in gratitude to Augustus,the name of Rhegium Julinm. (Strab. /. e.; Ptol. iii.1. § 9; Orell. Inter. 3838.) In the time of Strabo itwas a populous and flourishing place, and was oneof the few cities which, like Keapolis and Tarentum,still preserved some remains of its Greek civilisation.(Strab. vi. pp. 253, 259.) Traces of 'his may beobserved also in inscriptions, some of which, of theperiod of the Roman Empire, present a curiousmixture of Greek and Latin, while others have thenames of Roman magistrates, though the inscriptionsthemselves are in Greek. (Morisani, Inter. Utginae, ,4to. Neap. 1770, pp. 83, 126, &c.; Boeckh, C. I.5760—5768.) Its favourable situation and its importance, ascommanding the passage of the Sicilian straits,preserved Rhegium from falling into the same stateof decay as many other cities in the south of Italy.It continued to exist as a considerable city through­out the period of the Roman Empire (Plin. iii. 5.s. 10; Ptol. /- e. ; /tin. Ant. pp. 112, 115, 490),and was the termination of the great highwaywhich led through the southern peninsula of Italy,and formed the customary mode of communicationwith Sicily. In A. d. 410 Rhegium became thelimit of the progress of Alaric, who after the cap­ture of Rome advanced through Campania, Lucania, z z