OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS IOSEPHUS. 193 chelaus ; as was I born to Matthias on the first year of the rcigtlof Caius Caesar. I have three sons ; Hyrcanus, the eldest, wasborn on the fourth year of the reign of Vespasian, as was Justusborn on the seventh, and Agrippa on the ninth. Thus have Iset down the genealogy of my family as I have found it descri­bed* in the public records, and so bid adieu to those who ca.lumniate me, [as of a lower original.] 2. Now my father Matthias was not only eminent on accountof his nobility, but had a higher commendation on account ofhis righteousness, and was in great reputation in Jerusalem, thegreatest city we have. I was myself brought up with my bro­ther, whose name was Matthias, for he was my own brother,by both father and mother ; and I made mighty proficiency inthe improvements of my learning, and appeared to have botha great memory and understanding. Moreover, when I was achild, and about fourteen years of age, I was commended by allfor the love 1 had to learning ; on which account the high-priestsand principal men of the city came then frequently to me toge­ther, in order to know my opinion about the accurate understand­ing of points of the law. And when I was about sixteen years old,I had a mind to make trial of the several sects that were amongus. These sects are three ; the first is that of the Pharisees, thesecond that of the Sadducees, and the third that of the Essens, aswe have frequently told you ; for I thought that by this meansI might chuse the best, if I were once acquainted with them all;so I contented myself with hard fare, and underwent great diffi­culties, and went through them all f. Nor did I content myselfwith these trials only ; but when I was informed that one whosename was Banus, lived in the desart, and used no other cloathingthan grew upon trees, and had no other food than what grew ofits own accord, and bathed himself in cold water frequently, bothby night and by day, in order to preserve his chastity, 1 imita­ted him in those things, ;md continued with him three years f-VOL. III. B b So * An eminent example of the care of the Jews about their genealogies, espe -eially as to the priests See Contr. Ap' B. I. ch. 7." t When Joseplms here says, that from sixteen to nineteen, or for three years,he made trial of the three Jewish sects, the Pharisees, the Sadducecs, and theEssens, and yet says presently, in all our copies, that he stayed besides with oneparticular ascetick, called Eanus, ira} iu-ru, with him, and this still before hewas nineteen, there is little room left lor his trial of the thi ee other sects. Isuppose, therefore, that for axf aura' uiitb him, the old reading might be «,«/> iu-vtil, with them; which is a very small emendation, and takes away the diffi­culty before us. Nor is Dr Hudson's conjecture, hinted at by Mr H'all in his pre­face to the doctor s edition of Josephus, at all improbable, that this Banus, bythis his description, might well be a follower of John the Baptist, and that fromhim Josephus might easily imbibe such notions, as afterward prepared him tohave a favourable opinion about Jesus Christ himself, who was attested to byJohn the Bsptist.