OCR Output l3o THEDECLINEANDFALL to preserve the fame of his victory, and several edifices raisedat the expence of Maxentius, were dedicated to the honour ofhis successful rival. The triumphal arch of Constantine still re­mains a melancholy proof of the decline of the arts, and a singulartestimony of the meanest vanity. As it was not possible to find in thecapital of the empire, a sculptor who was capable of adorning thatpublic monument; the arch of Trajan, without any respect eitherfor his memory or for the rules of propriety, was stripped of itsmost elegant figures. The difference of times and persons, ofactions and characters, was totally disregarded. The Parthiancaptives appear prostrate at the feet of a prince who never hadthe smallest connexion with that people; and curious antiquarianscan still discover the head of Trajan on the trophies of Constantine.The new ornaments which it was necessary to introduce betweenthe vacancies of ancient sculpture, are executed in the rudest andmost unskilful manner 7+.and conduct The final abolition of the Prætorian guards was a measure ofprudence as well as of revenge. Those haughty troops, whosenumbers and privileges had been restored, and even augmented byMaxentius were for ever suppressed by Constantine. Their fortifiedcamp was destroyed, and the few Prætorians who had escaped thefury of the sword, were dispersed among the legions, and banishedto the frontiers of the empire, where they might be serviceablewithout again becoming dangerous 7S. By suppressing the troopswhich were usually stationed in Rome, Constantine gave the fatalblow to the dignity of the senate and people, and the disarmedcapital was exposed without protection to the insults or neglect ofits distant master. We may observe, that in this last effort topreserve their expiring freedom, the Romans, from the appre­hension of a tribute, had raised Maxentius to the throne. He ex­acted that tribute from the senate, under the name of a free gift.They implored the assistance of Constantine. He vanquished the tyrant,