OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 149 But in the character of a legislator, he respected the prejudices of the times; andinstead of pronouncing a sentence, of death against the robber or assassin, the ge­neral who betrayed an army, or the magistrate who ruined a province, Sylla wascontent to aggravate the pecuniary damages by the penalty of exile, or, in moreconstitutional language, by the interdiction of fire and water. The Cornelian, andafterwards the Pompeian'and Julian laws, introduced a new system of criminal ju­risprudence ;(1) and the emperors, from Augustus to Justinian, disguised their in­creasing rigour under the names of the uriginal authors. But the invention andfrequent use of extraordinary fiains, proceeded from the desire to extend and con­ceal the progress of despotism. In the condemnation of illustrious Romans, thesenate was always prepared to confound, at the will of their masters, the judicialand legislative powers. It was the duty of the governors to maintain the peace oftheir province, by the arbitrary and rigid administration of justice; the freedom ofthe city evaporated in the extent of the empire, and the Spanish malefactor, whoclaimed the privilege of a Roman, was elevated by the command of Galba on afairer and more lofty cross. (2) Occasional receipts issued from the throne to de­cide the questions, which by their novelty or importance, appeared to surpass theauthority and discernment of a proconsul. Transportation and beheading werereserved for honourable persons; meaner criminals were either hanged or burnt,or buried in the mines, or exposed to the wild beasts of the amphitheatre. Armedrobbers were pursued and extirpated as the enemies of society; the driving awayhorses or cattle was made a capital offence;(3) but simple theft was uniformlyconsidered as a mere civil and private injury. The degrees of guilt, and the modesof punishment, were too often determined by the discretion of the rulers, and thesubject was left in ignorance of the legal danger which he might incur by everyaction of his life. A sin, a vice, a crime, are the objects of theology, ethics, and jurisprudence.Whenever their judgments agree, they corroborate each other; but as often asthey differ, a prudent legislator appreciates the guilt and punishment accordingto the measure of social injury. On this principle, the most daring attack onthe life and property of a private citizen, is judged less atrocious than the crimeof treason, or rebellion, which invades the majesty of the republic: the obse­quious civilians unanimously pronounced, that the republic is contained in theperson of its chief: and the edge of the Julian law was sharpened by the inces­sant diligence of the emperors. The licentious commerce of the sexes may betolerated as an impulse of nature, or forbidden as a source of disorder and cor­ruption: but the fame, the fortunes, the family of the husband, are seriously in-• jured by the adultery of the wife. The wisdom of Augustus, after curbing thefreedom of revenge, applied to this domestic offence the animadversion of thelaws: and the guilty parties, after the payment of heavy forfeitures and fines,were condemned to long or perpetual exile in two separate islands. (4) Religionpronounces an equal censure against the infidelity of the husband: but as it is notaccompanied by the same civil effects, the wife was never permitted to vindicateher wrongs;(5) and the distinction of simple or double adultery, so familiar andso important in the canon law, is unknown to the jurisprudence of the code andPandects. I touch with reluctance, and despatch with impatience, a more odiousvice, of which modesty rejects the name, and nature abominates the idea. The thousand senators and knights; Appian (de Boll. Civil, lib. i. c. 95. torn. ii. p. 13.1. edit. Sehweigaeuser) more ac­curately computes forty victims of the tenatorian rank, and one thousand six hundred of the equestrian ceu-aus or order. (1) For the penal law (Leges Cornelia;. Pompeise.Jniise, of Sylla. Pompey,and (he Caesars.) see (he sentencesof Paulus (lib. is. til. 18—30. p. 497—518. edit. Sehultitig,) the Gregorian Code (Fragment, lib. six. p. 705, 70S.in Schulting.) the Cnllatio Legum Mosaicarum et Romanarum (tit. 1. 15.,' the Theodosian Code (lib. ix..) theCode af Justinian (lib. ix.,) the Pandects (48.,) the Institutes (lib. iv. tit. 18.,) and the Greek version of Theo-pbilus(p.917—926.) (2) It was a guardian who had poisoned his ward. The crime was atrocious; yet the punishment is reckonedby Suetonius (c. ix.) among the acts in which Galba showed himself acer vehemens, et in delictis coercendisimmodicus. (3) The abactores or abigeatnres, who drove one horse, or two mares or oxen, or five hogs, or ten goats, weresubject to capital punishment (Paul. Senlent. R.-cepT. lib. iv. tit. 18. p. 497,498.) Hadrian (ad Concil. Breticae.)most severe where the offence was most frequent, condemns the criminals, ad gtadium, ludi damnationem (Ul-pian de Officio Proconsulis, tib. viii. in Collatione Leguro Mosaic, et Rom. tit. xi. p. 235.) (4) Till the publication of the Julius Paulus of Sehnitiug (lib. ii. tit. 26. p. 317—323.,) it was affirmed andbelieved, that the Julian laws punished adultery with death; and the mistake arose from the fraud or error ofTribonian. Yet Lipsius had suspected the truth from the narrative of Tacitus (Annal. ii. 50. iii. 24. iv. 42.,)and even from the practice of Augustus, who distinguished the treasonable frailties of his female kindred. (5) In cases of adultery, Severus confined to the husband the right of public accusation (Cod. Justinian, lib.ix. tit. 9. lee. 1.) Nor is this privilege unjust—so different are the effects of male or female infiddirv.