OCR Output 27+ NOTES ON THE in beings superior to the dæmoniacal order. By the power there­fore calli'd the s),emon, which so often occurs in Pausanias, wemust understand Jupiter. Page 109. But he that has h:cn initiated in th? Eleusinian mys­teries, SsV.] From the present passive, in conjunction with iomeother authorities which I shall adduce, we may collect no con­temptible argument in favour ot' the opinion, thai the Orphichymns which exist at present were the very lumns which wereused in the Eleusinian mysteries. "For (fays Pa;.tan:as) it is notlawful to alcribe the invention of beans to Ceres; and he that hasbeen initiated in the Eleusinian mysi cries, or has read the poemscalled Crphic, will kiiow wiiat I mean." Now Porphyry DeAbftintntia, lib 4, informs us, that kans were forbidden in theEleusinian mysteries*; and in the Orphic hymn to Earth, thefacrificer is oiticied to fumigate from every kind of feed, exceptbeans and aromatic:. Again, Suidas informs; us, that tixAimeans a mystic sacrifice, the greatest and most venerable of all others,Surta jxwi-»ipia;2»is, n ftiytrv *} rtfuAfa. And Proclus, whenever hespeaks of the Eleusinian mysteries, calls them the most holy tchtai,ayiulaiau TtAilsif. Agrteably to this, the Orphic hymns arecalled in the Thryllitian manuscript tAiIow: and Scaliger justlyobserves, that they contain nothing but such invocations aswere used in mysteries. Besides, many of the hymns are expresslythus called by the author of them. Thus the conclusion of thehymn to Protogonns invokes that deity to be present at "theholy telcte" fj ti*i1«i» œyiai: of the hymn to the stars, to be pre­sent "at the very learned labours of the illustriously-holy telcte: EaSiT ivs1 luilfou T«Xi1>!{ WoV..iVot-a{ a.9x«iir. And in the conclusion of the hymn to Latona,the sacrifice is calledan all-divine telete. Bii>" <«> -utSiun TiXt7ii>, as likewise in that xm ipeflim xou xvajitn, gota; ti xai fxtXut, p. jjj. Edit. Trajecf In Plat. Theol. p. 371, et in MS. Comment, in Alcibiad. of