OCR Output •CttAP. XL.] THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of Tiberius, by the gravest of the Romans; and Pliny,in affected though forcible language, has condemned thethirst of gain, which explored the last confines of theearth, for the pernicious purpose of exposing to the pub­lic eye naked draperies and transparent matrons/ Adress, which shewed the turn of the limbs, and colour ofthe skin, might gratify vanity, or provoke desire; thesilks, which had been closely woven in China, were some­times unravelled by the Phoenician women, and'the preci­ous materials were multiplied by a looser texture, and theintermixture of linen threads.5 Two hundred years afterthe age of Pliny, the use of pure or even of mixed silkswas confined to the female sex, till the opulent citizensof Rome and the provinces were insensibly familiarizedwith the example of Elagabalus, the first who, by thiseffeminate habit, had sullied the dignity of an emperorand a man. Aurelian complained, that a pound of silkwas sold at Rome for twelve ounces of gold; but the sup­ply increased with the demand, and the price diminishedwith the supply. If accident or monopoly sometimesraised the value even above the standard of Aurelian,the manufacturers of Tyre and Berytus were sometimescompelled, by the operation of the same causes, to contentthemselves with a ninth part of that extravagant rate.'A law was thought necessary to discriminate the dress ofcomedians from that of senators; and of the silk export­ed from its native country, the far greater part was con.-sumed by the subjects of Justinian. They were stillmore intimately acquainted with a shell-fish of the Me­diterranean, surnamed the silk-worm of the sea; the r Tam longinquo orhe petitur, at in publico matron* translnceat nt de- nndet foeminas vestis. (Plin. 6. 20. 11. 21.) Varro and Publius Syrus had alreadyplayed on the Toga ventres, ventus texilis, and nebula linea. (Horat. Sermon. 1, 2.101. with the noles of Torrentius and Dacier.) 1 On the texture, colours, names, and use of the silk, half silk, and linen garment!of antiquity, see the profound, diffuse, and obscure researches of the great Salmasius,(in Hist. August. p. 127. 309. 310. 339. 341,342. 344. 388—391. 39p. 513.) whowas ignorant of the most common trades of Dijon or Leyden. 1 Flavins Vupiscus in Aurelian. c. 45. in Hist. August. p. 224. See Salmasiusad Hist. Aug. p. 392. and Plinian' Exercitat. in Solinum, p. 694, 695. TheAneo-dotes of Procopius (c. 25.) state a partial and imperfect rate of the price of silk inthe time of Justinian.