OCR Output 342 £&OOK IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. which they cut off from thy kingdom in thereign of thy father. So when the king hadheard that, he departed; and a little whileafter the prophet died. He was a mancelebrated for righteousness, and in eminentfavour with God: he also performed manywonderful works by prophecy, and such aswere gloriously preserved in memory bythe Hebrews. He obtained a magnificentfuneral: such a one indeed as it was fit aperson so beloved of God should have. Italso happened that at that time certain rob­bers cast a man, whom they had slain, intoElisha's grave, and upon the dead corpsecoming close to Elisha's body, it revivedagain.* And thus far have we enlargedabout the actions of Elisha the prophet;both such as he did while he was living,and how he had a divine power after hisdeath also. Now upon the death of Hazael, king ofSyria, that kingdom came to Adad his son;with whom Joash king of Israel made war;and when he had beaten him in three battles,he took from him all that country, and thosecities and villages which his father Hazaelhad taken from the kingdom of Israel; whichcame to pass according to the prophecy ofElisha. But when Joash happened to die,he was buried in Samaria: and the govern­ment devolved on his son Jeroboam. CHAP. IX. of amaziah's expedition against the edomites andamalekites; his defeat in the subsequent waragainst joash, king of israel; and the accessionof uzziah. IN the second year of the reign of Joash,tover Israel, Amaziah reigned over thetribe of Judah in Jerusalem. His mother's * 2 Kings xiii. 21.t An. 840. I The two murderers (mongrel fellows, whose fatherswere Jews, but their mothers aliens) perhaps were of hisbed-chamber, and having constant access to the king,might more easily accomplish their design. However,he was so weak and feeble, that he could make no re­sistance, and had fallen into that contempt and dis-esteem, that his guards minded not what became of him.Patrick's Commentary. B. II Deut. xxiv. 16. § If these be reckoned for talents of silver, as theygenerally are, each talent, at a hundred and twenty-five name was Jehoaddan, who was born at Je­rusalem. He was exceeding careful of doingwhat was right, and this when he was veryyoung. But when he came to the manage­ment of affairs, and to the government, heresolved that he ought first ol all to revengehis father Jehoash; and to punish thosethat had laid violent hands upon him. Sohe seized upon them all, and put them todeath: J yet did he execute no severity ontheir children; but acted therein accordingto the law of Moses, who did not think itjust to punish the children for the sins oftheir fathers.j| After this he chose an armyout of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, ofsuch as were in the flower of their age, andabout twenty years old. And when he hadcollected about three hundred thousand ofthem together, he set captains of hundredsover them. He also sent to the king ofIsrael, and hired a hundred thousand of hissoldiers, for a hundred talents of silver;§for he had resolved to make an expeditionagainst the nations of the Amalekites, Edom­ites, and Gebalites. But as he was pre­paring for his expedition, and ready to goout to the war, a prophet gave him counselto dismiss the army of the Israelites; becausethey were bad men, and because God fore­told that he should be beaten, if he madeuse of them as auxiliaries; but that he shouldovercome his enemies, though he had but afew soldiers, when it so pleased God. Andwhen the king grudged at his having alreadypaid the hire of the Israelites, the prophetexhorted him to do what God would havehim: because he should thereby obtain muchwealth from God. So he dismissed them, andsaid that he still freely gave them their pay,and went himself with his own army, andmade war with the aforementioned nations:and when he had beaten them in battle, he pounds weight, and each pound weight at four poundsvalue, the whole will amount to fifty thousand pounds ster­ling, which will be but ten shillings to each man, officersincluded. Very low pay! unless we suppose, that thiswhole sum was given to the king of Israel for the loan ofso many men, and that the men were to have no otherpay besides; or rather, that they were to have no otherpay but the booty which they took from the enemy; andthat this was the true reason why they were so exaspe­rated at their dismission, as to fall upon the cities of Judah,from Samaria even unto Beth-horon, 2 Chron. xxv. 13.Patrick's and CalmeCs Commentaries. B. s