OCR Output 100 THE REFORM MOVEMENT. [Book IV. energy the distribution of the domains which he had carried—so sad was the state of things in Rome, that honest patriotswere forced into the horrible hypocrisy of abandoning thecriminal and yet appropriating the fruit of his crime. Forthat reason too the opponents of Gracchus were in a certainsense not wrong, when they accused him of aspiring to thecrown. It was a fresh ground of charge against him ratherthan a justification, that he himself was probably a strangerto any such thought. The aristocratic government wasso thoroughly pernicious, that a citizen who was able todepose the senate and to put himself in its room wouldperhaps have benefited the commonwealth more than heinjured it.Results, But such a bold player Tiberius Gracchus was not. He was a tolerably able, thoroughly well-meaning, conservativepatriot, who simply did not know what he was doing; whoin the fullest belief that he was calling the people evokedthe rabble, and grasped at the crown without being himselfaware of it, till the inexorable concatenation of eventsurged him irresistibly into the career of the demagogue-tyrant. Then the family commission, the interferences withthe public finances, the further "reforms" exacted byperplexity and despair, the body-guard taken from thepavement, and the conflicts in the streets displayed the me­lancholy usurper more and more clearly to himself andothers; and at length the unchained spirits of revolutionseized and devoured their incapable conjurer. The infamousbutchery, through which he perished, condemns itself, as itcondemns the aristocratic faction whence it issued; but theglory of martyrdom, with which it has embellished the nameof Tiberius Gracchus, came in this instance, as usually, tothe wrong man. The best of his contemporaries judgedotherwise. When the catastrophe was mentioned to Scipio-32milianus, he uttered the words of Homer: "fls &tt6\oito ual &\\os, 8ris roiavrd yt £<C01' and when the younger brother of Tiberius seemed disposedto come forward in the same career, his own mother wroteto him: "Shall then our house have no end of madness?where shall be the limit? have we not yet enough to beashamed of, in having confused and disorganized the state?'So spoke not the anxious mother, but the daughter of theconqueror of Carthage, who knew of a misfortune yetgreater than the death of her children.