OCR Output tto NOTES ON THE The same must be understood of every other divinity, consideredaccording to his highest subsistence j viz. that various other divi­nities of the fame characteristic proceed from him into the part*of the world: and if the reader carefully attends to this theory,when he reads Homer, or the fables of any other ancient theolo­gical poet, and is able to apply it properly, he will find that thetheology of the ancients is founded in a theory no less beautifullyconnected than astonishingly profound ; no less enchanting thanscientific; no less true than marvellous and mystic. See moreconcerning this most important subject, in my Note* on the Cra-tylus, and Introduction to the Parmenides of Plato; in myTranslation of Sallust on the Gods and the World; and of theEmperor Julian's Oration to the Sun, and to the Mother of theCods. Page 4. Thegoddejses calledGcnetyllides.] The Scholiast uponAristophanes informs us that Genetyllis is an epithet of yeans,and that she is so called because she presides over the generationof animals. Perhaps therefore, as there are two Venuses, as weshall fee hereafter, the Genetyllides are these two. Page 6. And of Iacchus holding a torch. ] There is great pro­priety in representing Iacchus or Bacchus with a torch; forBacchus is the mundane intelkH; and fire with the ancients wasvery properly considered as a symbol of inttllcH, from its tendingupwards. Page 6.—and this Bacchus they call Melpomenos.] The Orphictheologists,asIhaveshcwn inp.iot of the Dissertation prefixed tomy Translation of Orphcus's Hymns, called the intellect of eachof the celestial spheres, by some one of the appellations of Bacchus,and the foul, or animating part of the sphere, by the name ofone of the Muses. Agreeably to this, in the orb of the fun, theycalled the intelleHive part, Trictcricus Bacchus, and the animatingpart Melpomene. But as the intellect and foul of the fun, and soof every other orb, form one divine nature, from their admirableunion with each other, the intellect of this sphere may be justly called