OCR Output CHAP. L. 285 Persian, and the Syrian monk, whom they accuse oflending their secret aid to the composition of theKoran.0 Conversation enriches the understanding, butsolitude is the school of genius; and the uniformity ofa work denotes the hand of a single artist. From hisearliest youth, Mahomet was addicted to religious con­templation: each year, during the month of Ramadan,he withdrew from the world and from the arms of Ca-dijah: in the cave of Hera, three miles from Mecca,*1he consulted the spirit of fraud or enthusiasm, whoseabode is not in the heavens, but in the mind of theprophet. The faith which, under the name of Islam,he preached to his family and nation, is compoundedof an eternal truth, and a necessary fiction, THAT THERE IS ONLY ONE GOD, AND THAT MAHOMET IS THEAPOSTLE OF GOD. It is the boast of the Jewish apologists, that'while the learned nations of antiquity were de­luded by the fables of Polytheism, their simple ancestorsof Palestine preserved the knowledge and worship of thetrue God. The moral attributes of Jehovah may noteasily be reconciled with the standard of human virtue:his metaphysical qualities are darkly expressed; but eachpage of the Pentateuch and the Prophets is an evidenceof his power: the unity of his name is inscribed on thefirst table of the law; and his sanctuary was never de­filed by any visible image of the invisible essence.After the ruin of the temple, the faith of the Hebrewexiles was purified, fixed, and enlightened, by the spi­ritual devotion of the synagogue; and the authority ofMahomet will not justify his perpetual reproach, that a I am not at leisure to pursue the fables or conjectures which name the stran­gers accused or suspected by the infidels of Mecca. (Koran, c. 16. p. 223. e. 35.p. 297. with Sale's Remarks. Prideaux's Life of Mahomet, p. 21—27. Gag-•nier. Not. ad Abulfed. p. 11. 74. Maracci, torn. 2. p. 400.) Even Prideanx hasobserved that the transaction must have been secret, and that the scene lay in theheart of Arabia. d Abulfeda, in Vit. c. 7. p. 15. Gagnier, torn. 1. p. 133. 135. The situationof mount Hera is remarked by Abulfeda. (Geograph. Arab. p. 4.) Yet Maho--met had never read of the cave of Egeria, ubi noctums Numa constituebat arnica),•of the Idiean mount, where Minos conversed with Jove, &c.