OCR Output 382 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV. they would escape with impunity for this insult; butbemg thus abandoned by their countrymen, the warwith them was very inconsiderable, for they lost boththeir citv and its territory, by one slight engagement anda short siegeyL L. Sextos, one of the popular tribunes, attempted tobring ki a bill for sending a colony to Volse, as hadbeen done to Lavicum. It ended in nothing, by reasonof the dissent of his colleagues, who declared that theywould sutler no bill to pass in the assembly of the com­mons, without the con'sent of the senate. Next year, thejEqui having recovered Voice, peopled it anew, andstrengthened the fortifications of the place, during thepresidency of Quinctius Fabius Vibulanus for the secondtime, Cn-. Cornelius Cossns, L. Valerius Potitus, andPosthumius Regillensis*, in quality of military tribuneswith consular power. To Posibutnius was committed the management of thewar against the 2Equi. He was a man of a vile disposi­tion, which became more visible in his victory, thanduring the dependence of the war: For, having raisedan arniy with great expedition, and marched againstV<-lie, in several skirmishes he humbled the 55qui, andat last made himself master of the city, when he turn­ed the insolence of his temper from the enemy, uponhis fellow-citizens; and though whilst he was carryingon the siege, he had published that the soldiers shouldhave the plunder after it was taken, he broke his word. I rather think that the resentment of the army origi­nated in this circumstance, than because the city, whichhad been lately plundered, and peopled -with a new co­lony, did not produce so large a booty as this tribunehad given out. From whatever source this disgnst pro­ceeded, he inflamed it much, upon his return to ihe city,being recalled by his colleagues on account of the dustraised by the tribunes. An expression of his was takennotice of in the assembly, equally ridiculous and extra­vagant. As Sextius, one of the tribunes, was proposing * Regillensiswasa.sirname common to two families; theClsn-dian and Posthumian to the first, because they came from Regil-tum; to the last, in honour of the victory gained by Posthumiusover the Latins at the lake Regiilns.