OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. a prisoner, and his astonished troops laid down their arms'". Insuch a momeht of triumph, the pride and policy of Sapor promptedhim to fill the vacant throne with a successor entirely dependent onhis pleasure. Cyriadea, an obscure fugitive of Antioch, stainedwith every vice, was chosen to diflionour the Roman purple; andthe will of the Persian victor could not fail of being ratified by theacclamations, however reluctant, of the captive army ,4°. The imperial Have was eager to secure the favour of his master, S-porover- runs Syria, by an act of treason to his native country. He conducted Sapor Ciacia, andover the Euphrates, and by the way of Chalcis to the metropolis of PPadoC1*'the East. So rapid were the motions of the Persian cavalry, that, ifWe may credit a Very judicious historian ,4', the city of Antioch wassurprised when the idle multitude was fondly gazing on the amuse­ments of the theatre. The splendid buildings of Antioch, privateas well as public, were either pillaged or destroyed; and the nume­rous inhabitants were put to the sword, or led away into captivityThe tide of devastation was stopped for a moment by the resolution ofthe high priest of Emesa. Arrayed in his sacerdotal robes, he ap- ■peared at the head of a great body of fanatic peasants, armed onlywith flings, and defended his god and his property from the sacri­legious hands of the followers of Zoroaster l+J. But the ruin ofTarsus, and of many other cities, furnilh a melancholy proofthat, except in this singular instance, the conquest of Syria andCilida scarcely interrupted the progress of the Persian arms. Theadvantages of the narrow passes of mount Taurus were abandoned,in which an invader, whose principal force consisted in his cavalry,would have been engaged in a very unequal combat: and Sapor wa6permitted to form the siege ofCæsarea, the capital of Cappadocia; acity, though of the second rank, which was supposed to containfour hundred thousand inhabitants. Demosthenes commanded inthe place, not so much by the commission of the emperor, as in thevoluntary defence of his country. For a long time he deferred its N n 2 fate;