OCR Output 366 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.VlIf. to come over from Ionia, though averse to the oligar­chy, in order to prevent the ruin of their own relationsand the total destruction of their country: And, in themean time, Hellespont, Ionia, the isles even up to Eu-bœa, in a word, the whole empire of Athens, musthave been their own. Yet, not in this instance only,but many others, the Lacedæmonians shewed them­selves most commodious enemies for the Athenians toencounter: For, as nothing differed more than theirrespective tempers; the one being active, the other stow;enterprising these, but timorous those, especially in na­val competitions; they gave them many advantages.The truth of this the Syracusans most plainly (hewed,who very nearly resembled the Athenians in disposition,and so warred against them with the highest spirit andsuccess. Terrified, however, at these tidings, the Atheniansmade a shift to man out twenty vessels, and convenedan assembly of the people, on the first report of theirloss, in the place which is called the Pnyx, and wheregenerally that assembly was held. In this they put anend to the administration of the sour-hundred, and de­creed " the supreme power to be vested in the Jive-"thousand, which number to confist of all such citi- zens as were enrolled for the heavy armour; and*' that no one should receive a salary for any public ma-** gistracy; whoever offended in this point they de-"dared a traitor." Other frequent assemblies wereafterwards held, in which they appointed Nomatheta*and filled up the other posts in the government. Andnow at least, though for the first time in my opinion,the Athenians seem to have modelled their government * The general course of appointing Nomatbtta was by lot. Their number in thewhole was a thousand and one. Their business was not, as the nane seems to im­ply, to make new laws, since that belonged to the lupreme power lodged in the peo­ple; but to. inspect such as were already made, to re-considcr such as were thoughtto be, or were complained of as, grievous, aud tegularly report fab as ought to becontinued or ought to be repealed. aright.