OCR Output 206 THE ATTEMPT OF MAEIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. on the course traced out by Gaius Gracchus for procuringsupremacy in the state by taking upon himself its constitu­tional magistracies. In this enterprise he found himselfdependent for support on what was called the popular party,and sought his allies in its leaders for the time being all themore, that the victorious general by no means possessed thegifts and experiences requisite for the command of the streets.Thus the democratic party after long insignificance suddenlyregained political importance. It had in the long intervalfrom Gaius Gracchus to Marius materially deteriorated.The dissatisfaction with the senatorial government was notnow perhaps less than it was then; but several of the hopes,which had brought to the Gracchi their most faithful ad­herents, had in the meanwhile been recognized as illusory,and there had sprung up in many minds a misgiving thatthis Gracchan agitation tended towards an issue whither avery large portion of the discontented were by no meanswilling to follow it. In fact, amidst the chase and turmoilof twenty years there had been rubbed off and worn awayvery much of the fresh enthusiasm, the steadfast faith, themoral purity of effort, which mark the early stages ofrevolutions. But, if the democratic party was no longerwhat it had been under Gaius Gracchus, the leaders of theintervening period were now as far beneath their party asGaius Gracchus had been exalted above it. This was im­plied in the nature of the case. Until there should emergea man having the boldness like Gaius Gracchus to graspat the supremacy of the state, the leaders could only bestop-gaps; either political novices, who gave furious ventto their youthful love of opposition and then, when dulv ac­credited as fiery declaimers and favourite speakers, effectedwith more or less dexterity their retreat to the camp of thegovernment-party; or people, who had nothing to lose inrespect of property and influence and little usually eitherto gain or lose in respect of honour, and who made it theirbusiness to obstruct and annoy the government from per­sonal exasperation or even from the mere pleasure of creatinga noise. To the former sort belonged, for instance. GaiusMemmius (P. 148) and the well-known orator Lucius Crassus,who turned the oratorical laurels which they had won in theranks of the opposition to account in the sequel as zealouspartisans of the government. But the most notable leadersof the popular party about this time were men of the