OCR Output 170 THE DECLINE AND FALL and it was the wish of Gregory that he might be unknown in this life, and gloriousonly in the next. Yet this devotion, and it might be sincere, pursued the pathwhich wquld have been chosen by a crafty and ambitious statesman. The talentsof Gregory, and the splendour which accompanied his retreat, rendered him dearand useful to the church; and implicit obedience has been always inculcated as thefirst duty of a monk. As soon as he had received the character of deacon, Grego­ry was sent to reside at the Byzantine court, the nuncio or minister of the apostolicsee; and he boldly assumed, in the name of St. Peter, a tone of independent digni­ty, which would have been criminal and dangerous in the most illustrious laymanof the empire.' He returned to Rome with a just increase of reputation, and aftera short exercise of the monastic virtues, he was dragged from the cloister to thepapal throne, by the unanimous voice of the clergy, the senate, and the people.He alone resisted, or seemed to resist, his own elevation; and his humble petition,that Maurice would be pleased to reject the choice of the Romans, could only serveto exalt his character in the eyes of the emperor and the public. When the fatalmandate was proclaimed, Gregory solicited the aid of some friendly merchants toconvey him in a basket beyond the gates of Rome, and modestly concealed him­self some days among the woods and mountains, till his retreat was discovered, asit is said, by a celestial light. The pontificate of Gregory the Great, which lasted thirteen years, six months,and ten days, is one of the most edifying periods of the history of the church. Hisvirtues, and even his faults, a singular mixture of simplicity and cunning, of prideand humility, of sense and superstition, were happily suited to his station, and tothe temper of the times. In his rival, the patriarch of Constantinople, he con­demned the antichristian title of universal bishop, which the successor of St. Peterwas too haughty to concede, and too feeble to assume; and the ecclesiastical juris­diction of Gregory was confined to the triple character of bishop of Rome, primateof Italy, and apostle of the west. He frequently ascended the pulpit, and kindled,by his rude, though pathetic eloquence, the congenial passions of his audience: thelanguage of the Jewish prophets was interpreted and applied, and the minds of thepeople, depressed by their present calamities were directed to the hopes and fearsof the invisible wvld. His precepts and example defined the model of the Ro­man liturgy;(l) the distribution of the parishes, the calendar of festivals, the or­der of processions, the service of the priests-and deacons, the variety and changeof sacerdotal garments. Till the last days of his life, he officiated in the canon ofthe mass, which continued above three hours; the Gregorian chant(2) has pre­served the vocal and instrumental music of the theatre, and the rough voices ofthe barbarians attempted to imitate the melody of the Roman school. (3) Experi­ence had shown him the efficacy of these solemn and pompous rites, to sooth thedistress, to confirm the faith, to mitigate the fierceness, and to dispel the dark en­thusiasm of the vulgar; and he readily forgave their tendency to promote the reignof priesthood and superstition. The bishops of Italy and the adjacent islands ac­knowledged the Roman pontiff as their special metropolitan. Even the existence,the union, or the translation of episcopal seats, was decided by his absolute discre­tion: and his successful inroads into the provinces of Greece, of Spain, and of Gaul,might countenance the more lofty pretensions of succeeding popes. He interposedto prevent the abuses of popular elections; his jealous care maintained the purityof faith and discipline, and the apostolic shepherd assiduously watched over thefaith and discipline of the subordinate pastors. Under his reign, the Arians of Ita­ly and Spain were reconciled to the catholic church, and the conquest of Britainreflects less glory on the name of Csesar, than on that of Gregory I. Instead ofsix legions, forty monks were embarked for that distant island, and the pontiff la- (1) The Lord'* prayer consists of half a dozen lines: the Sacramentarius and Antiphonarius of Gre­gory fill eight hundred and eighty folio pages (torn. iii. p. 1—880.;) yet these only constitute a part of theOrdo Romanus, which Mabillon has illustrated, and Fleuryhas abridged (Hist. Ecclet. torn. viii. p. ISO-IS*.) * p) I learn from the abbe Dubos (Reflections sur la Poesie et la Peinture, torn. iii. p. 174,175.0 that the sim­plicity of the Ambrosian chant was confined to four modes, while the more perfect harmony of the Gregoriancomprised the eight modes or fifteen chords of the ancient music. He observes (p. 332.) that the connoisseursadmire the preface and many passages of the Gregorian office. ^ (3) John the_ deacon (in Vit. Greg. lib. ii. c. 7.) expresses the early contempt of the Italians for tramontanesinking. Alpina scilicet corpora Tocumtuarura tonitruis altisone perstrepentia, susceptx modulationis du1-eedinem proprie non resultant: quia bibuli gutturis barbara feritas dam inflexionibus et repercussionibus mi-lem nitilur edere cantitenam. naturali quodam fragore quasi plaustra per gradus confuse sonantia rigidas to-cesiactat, &c. In the time of Charlemagne, the Franks, though with some reluctance,admitted the justiceof the reproach. Muraton, Dissert. 85.