OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 227 which would probably be against whatever part wasdestitute of forces for its defence: for that fleet, inpursuance of a decree of the senate, the consuls en­listed three thousand men, and also two city legions,for the exigences of the war. Spain, with the armiesthere, and the command, was decreed to the formergenerals, Lucius Lentulus and Lucius Manlius Acidi-hus. The Romans employed in their service, for thatyear, in all, twenty legions, and a hundred and sixtyships of war. The pretors were directed to repair totheir provinces; and orders were given to the consulsthat, before their departure from the city, they shouldcelebrate the great games, which Titus Manlius Tor-quatus, in his dictatorship, had vowed to be exhibitedin the fifth year, if the condition of the state remainedunaltered. Religious apprehensions were raised inmen's minds by relations of prodigies brought fromseveral places. It was believed that crows had notonly torn with their beaks some gold in the capitol,but had even eaten it. At Antium, mice gnawed agolden crown. A vast quantity of locusts filled allthe country round Capua, though it could not be dis­covered from whence they came. At Reate a foal wasproduced with five feet. At Anagnia there appearedin the sky, at first scattered fire, and afterwards a pro­digious blaze. At Frusino a circle encompassed thesun with a narrow line; then the orb of the sun, in­creasing in size, extended its circumference beyondthe circle. At Arpinum, in a level plain, the earthsunk into a vast gulf. When one of the consuls sa­crificed the first victims, the head of the liver waswanting. These prodigies were expiated by thegreater victims, the college of pontiffs directing towhat gods the sacrifices should be made. 3. As soon as this business was finished, the consulsand pretors set out for their respective provinces.They directed their chief attention to Africa, as if itwere allotted to them, either because they saw thatthe grand interests of their country, and of the war,depended on the proceedings there, or from a desire