OCR Output 324 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. were furnished by the nations who dwelt along thexx' shores of the Baltic. They possessed arms and ships,the art of navigation, and the habits of naval war;but the difficulty of issuing through the northerncolumns of Hercules (which, during several monthsof the year, are obstructed with ice) confined theirskill and courage within the limits of a spacious lake.The rumour of the successful armaments which sailedfrom the mouth of the Elbe would soon provokethem to cross the narrow isthmus of Sleswig, and tolaunch their vessels on the great sea. The varioustroops of pirates and adventurers, who fought underthe same standard, were insensibly united in a per­manent society, at first of rapine, and afterwards ofgovernment. A military confederation was graduallymoulded into a national body, by the gentle opera­tion of marriage and consanguinity; and the adjacenttribes, who solicited the alliance, accepted the nameand laws, of the Saxons. If the fact were not esta­blished by the most unquestionable evidence, weshould appear to abuse the credulity of our readersby the description of the vessels in which the Saxonpirates ventured to sport in the waves of the GermanOcean, the British Channel, and the Bay of Biscay.The keel of their large flat-bottomed boats was framedof light timber, but the sides and upper works con­sisted only of wicker, with a covering df stronghides *. In the course of their slow and distant na­vigations, they must always have been exposed to thedanger, and very frequently to the misfortune, ofshipwreck; and the naval annals of the Saxons wereundoubtedly filled with the accounts of the losseswhich they sustained on the coasts of Britain andGaul. But the daring spirit of the pirates braved the * The genius of Cssar imitated, for a particular service, these rude, but light,vessels, which were likewise used by the natives of Britain .{Comment. de BelLCivil. i. 51. and Guichardt, Nouveaux Memoires Militaires, torn. ii. p. 41, 42).The British vessels would now astonish the genius of Casar.