OCR Output 460 JOSEPIIUS'S DISCOURSE ABOUT HADES. able by men, and it will not be impossible to discover thoway of ascending thither. The earth will not be unculti­vated, nor require too much labor of men, but will bringforth its fruits of its own accord, and will be well adornedwith them. There will be no more generations of wild beasts,nor will the substance of the rest of the animals shoot outany more; for it will not produce men; but the number ofthe righteous will continue, and never fail, together withrighteous angels and spirits [of God,] and with his word, asa choir of righteous men and women that never grow old,and continue in an incorruptible state, singing hymns to God,who hath advanced them to that happiness, by the means ofa regular institution of life; with whom the whole creationalso will lift up a perpetual hymn from corruption to incor-ruption, as glorified by a splendid and a pure spirit. It willnot then be restrained by a bond of necessity, but with alively freedom shall offer up a voluntary hymn, and shallpraise him that made them, together with the angels, andspirits, and men, now freed from all bondage. 7. And now if you Gentiles will be persuaded by thesomotives, and leave your vain imaginations about your pedi­grees, and gaining of riches, and philosophy, and will notspend your time about subtilities of words, and thereby leadyour minds into error, and if you will apply your ears to thohearing of the inspired prophets, the interpreters both ofGod and of his word, and will believe in God, you shall bothbe partakers of these things, and obtain the good things thatare to come: you shall see the ascent unto the immenseheaven plainly, and that kingdom which is there. For whatGod hath now concealed in silence [will be then made mani­fest], what neither eye hath seen, nor ear hath heard, norhath it entered into the heart of man the things that Godhath prepared for them that love him. 8. In whatsoever ways I shall find you, in them shall 1judge you entirely ; so cries the end of all things. And hewho hath at first lived a virtuous life, but towards the latterend falls into vice, these labors by him before endured shallbe altogether vain and unprofitable, even as in a play brought