OCR Output Chap. XX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 431 find gave order, that when they went up to the morning guard,they should erect their ensigns, that the Jews might be made tobelieve that the entire army was there still, while he himselftook the rest of his forces with him, and marched, without anynoise, thirty furlongs. But when the Jews perceived, in themorning, that the camp was empty, they ran upon those fourhundred who had deluded them, and immediately threw theirdarts at them, and slew them, and they pursued after Cestius.But he had already made use of a great part of the night in hisflight, and still marched quicker when it was day. Insomuchthat the soldiers, through the astonishment and fear they werein, left behind them their engines for sieges, and for throwingof stones, and a great part of the instruments of war. So theJews went on pursuing the Romans as far as Antipatris, afterwhich, seeing they could not overtake them, they came back,and took the engines, and spoiled the dead bodies, and gatheringtheir prey together which the Romans had left behind them,and came back running and singing to their metropolis. Whilethey had themselves lost a few only, but had slain of the Ro­mans five thousand and three hundred footmen, and three hund­red and eighty horsemen. This defeat happened on the eighthday of the month Dius, [Marhesvan], in the twelfth year ofthe reign of Nero. CHAP. XX. Cestius sends ambassadors to Nero. The people of Damascusslay those Jews that lived with them. The,people of Jerusa­lem, after they had \Jeft off] pursuing Cestius, return to thecity, and get things ready for its defence, and make a greatmany generals for their armies, and particularly Joscphus, thewriter of these looks. Some account of his administration. § I. A FTER this calamity had befallen Cestius, many of the./JL most eminent of the Jews swam away from the city,as from a ship when it was going to sink; Costobarus, therefore,and Saul, who were brethren, together with Philip, the son ofJacimus, who was the commander of King Agrippa's forces, ran,away from the city, and went to Cestius. But then how Anti-pas, who had been besieged with them in the king's palace, heyvould not fly away with them, was afterward slain by the sedi­tious, we shall relate hereafter. However, Cestius sent Sauland his friends, at their own desire, to Achaia, to Nero, to in­form him of the great distress they were in, and to lay the blameof their kindling the war upon Florus, as hoping to alleviateShis own danger, by provoking his indignation against Florus. 2. In