OCR Output ROMA. 831 ROMA. limit Ihmt continued to bar in general the name • Lactlh*. Bat Becker interprets the passagerarjt when he thinks that the temple of Sol lavirtedtbea gardens: on the contrary, the passing tmpJe gave rise to the conversation, whichjBti till Vopiacus and his friend arrived at thein Viariaui, wherever these mar have been; and ifsri mi oo the Pincian, the temple of Sol, in thejoiti iDdkated, wookl bare been on the road toan tam the Palatium. Lastly, we may observe:t tie Qairinal had, in very early times, been de­lated ts the worship of Sol, wbo was a Sabinevr {Varro, /*. L. v. § 74); and there was aH.TTJ*s Sous in the neighbourhood of theit* of QuirimB. (Quint I tut. Or. i. 7; Fart.'fu II /lay.; cf. Urlichs, Betchr. iii. 2. p. 386;aua, /adit p. 210, acq.; Prcller, Regionen, p. a.) -i: >»i the aaoctnaries of the Quirinal. Theran topographers, who are followed by the mo­rs Itiiaiu. have assigned two circi to this quarter; • ■ s hmhm. near the temple of the samer», aid the C tarts Sai.i I'STH in the gardens of4*4. between the Quirinal and Pincian. TheBar hat certainly been invented by misconstruingompdon relating to the games of Flora in therm Usxinraa. (Becker. Handb. p. 673.) It issi onbtfal whether a Circus Sallustii may not- mated. We have seen from a passage of?ttal the Ludi Apollinarea were performed out*i tat Porta Collina when the overflowing of thear prevented their performance in the usual •; tod, according to Canina (Judical, p. 199),■stf a arena are atill visible in that locality.'aw is mentioned in the catalogues of the*», nor does it occur in any ancient author.'Horn Saixuwtiaxi, however, undoubtedlya the vaflry between the Quirinal and Pincian,arr exact extent cannot be determined. They ■ turned by Sallust the historian with theey wsich he had [extorted in Numidia. (DionalSLt.) The house of Sallust lay near to(ofeeooent) Porta Salaria, as we learn from■pan, who relate* that it was burnt in the • af the city by Alaric, and that its balf-eon-«! o-nanu still existed in his time. (B. V. i. 2.)ie^ryaonsof Einsiedlen mentions some Tiikr-^ixrtrru.wAE near the church of S. Susanna;n» oiier topographers record that the neigh-liod continued to be called Salmttricum orawn even in their daya. (Andr. Fulvius, de "•■ p. HO: Lnc. Fauno, Ant. di R. ir. 10.») Becker (24WA. p. 585) raises a diffi-•*»t the sitoatina of these gardens from aV a Tacitus (Ilirt. iii. 82), which, however,sa aose if rightly understood. The Flavian • »*atk had penetrated to the gardens of Sallustaw yft were those which marched on thesua, oat the Salarian, way, just as Nero isswd at finding bis way back to these gardens•name read. (Tac Ann. xiii. 49.) ■ Horn Sallustiani subsequently became im-I prvferty, though in what manner is unknown,ant notice which we find of them as such • oadrr Nero in the passage just cited fromtax Several empeiurs are described as residingasx at Vespasian, Nerra, and Aurelian. (Dion • airi 10; Vafisc. Aur. 49; Hieron. p. 445, a> ctoss to the Porta Collina, bnt inside and tohjhtef it, lay the Cajipds Scxxkratus, im­ mediately under the agger. The spot obtained itsname from being the place where Vestal Virginsconvicted of uncbastity were bnried alive; for evenin this frightful punishment they retained theirprivilege of being interred within the walls. Diony-sius attributes the introduction of this mode of exe­cution to Tarquinius Priscus; and, according toLivy, the first example of its application was in thecase of Minucia, b. c. 348. Dionysius, however,calls the first vestal who suffered Pinaria. (Dionyr.ii. 67, iii. 67; Liv. viii. 15; Plut. Nam. 10.) The emperors appear to have shared with thevestals the privilege of intramural interment, al­though they did not always avail themselves of it.Indeed, according to Hieronymus (vol. i. p. 449,Rone), Trajan was the only emperor buried withinthe walls; but this statement is certainly erroneous,since Domitian erected a magnificent mausoleum firthe Flavian family somewhere between the gardens ofSallust and the spot subsequently occupied by thebaths of Diocletian. It is the object mentioned underthe name of "Gens Flavia" in the Sotitia, and isalluded to in several epigrams of Martial, in one ofwhich he designates it as being near his owndwelling (v. 64. 5):— "Tam vicina jubent nos vivcre Mausolea,Quum doceant ipsos posse perire deos." (Cf. ix. 2 and '35; Stat. SUv. iv. 3. 18.) It wascommonly called Templcm Gkktis Fi-aviae, asappears from Suetonius (Dom. 17); but the samepassage shows it to have been a sepulchre also,since the ashes of Julia, the daughter of Titus, aawell as those of Domitian himself, were deposited init (Cf. Becker, de Murii, Ac. p. 69.) It waserected on the site of the house in which Domitianwas born, designated as being ad Mai i m Pr-Kict'H (Suet. Dom. 1); which name occurs againin the Xotiiia, and could not, therefore, have beenapplied to the whole Region, as Preller supposes(Regionent p. 69), but must have denoted someparticular spot, perhaps a vie US, called after apomegranate tree that grew there. We have alreadyadverted to the importance attached to trees growingwithin the city. The only other object that remains to be noticedon tho Quirinal is the Praktoriax Camp, sincethe baths of Diocletian will be described under theproper head. We have related in the former partof this article that the Castra Praetoria wore esta­blished in the reign of Tiberius outside the PortaCollina, to the eastward of the agger. They werearranged after the usual model of a Roman camp,and were enclosed within a brick wall, of whichthere are still some remains. (Canina, Jndicaz.p. 194.) They were included within the wall ofAurelian, which preserved their outline. We needonly add that the 6th Region of Augustus, of whichthe Ksquiline formed the principal part, was calledAlta Si- mi i a. from a road which ran along thewhole bark of the hill, answering to the modernSrmoVi di Porta Pin. The Pisciaji Hitx presents bnt few objects ofimportance. Its earlier name was Colus Hor-torum, or Hortcu>ri*m, derived from the gar­dens which covered it; and it was not till a lateperiod of the empire that it obtained the name ofMons Pincius, from a magnificent palace of thePincian family which stood upon it. (Urlichs,Betchr. vol. iii. part. ii. p. 572, Rom. Top. p. 136.)This Domi-b Pinctana is rendered interesting from