OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. S7S which had required the direct and solemn testimony of an accuser,it became the duty as well as interest of the imperial officers, todiscover, to pursue, and to torment, the most obnoxious among thefaithful. Heavy penalties were denounced against all who shouldpresume to save a proscribed sectary from the just indignation ofthe gods, and of the emperors. Yet, notwithstanding the severity ofthis law, the virtuous courage of many of the Pagans, in concealingtheir friends or relations, affords an honourable proof, that therage of superstition had not extinguished in their minds the senti­ments of nature and humanity ,6'. Diocletian had no sooner published his edicts against the Chri- Geneial idea . r . . of the perse- ftians, than, as if he had been desirous of committing to other cutionhands the work of persecution, he divested himself of the imperialpurple. The character and situation of his colleagues and successorssometimes urged them to enforce, and sometimes inclined themto suspend the execution of these rigorous laws; nor can we ac­quire a just and distinct idea of this important period of eccle­siastical history, unless we separately consider the state of Chri­stianity, in the different parts of the empire, during the space often years, which elapsed between the first edicts of Diocletian, andthe final peace of the ehurch. The mild and humane temper of Cbnstantius Was averse to the in the westernoppression of any part of his subjects. The principal offices of his CoMta"-"palace were exercised by Christians. He loved their persons, esteemed Jj"*^.00""their fidelity, and entertained not any dislike to their religious prin­ciples. But as long as Constantius remained in the subordinatestation of Cæsar, it was not in his power openly to reject the edictsof Diocletian, or to disobey the commands of Maxhnian. Hi*authority contributed, however, to alleviate the sufferings which hepitied and abhorred. He consented, with reluctance, to the ruin ofthe churches ; but he ventured to protect the Christians themselvesfrom the fury of the populace, and from the rigour of the laws-.'! S The