OCR Output 396 Livv. and spared the towns as far as they were able, in orderto possess the more opulent empire. For, what sortof conduct was it to destroy the objects, for the posses­sion of which the contest was waged, and therebyleave nothing to himself but fighting? Philip had, inthe last year, desolated more cities of his allies inThessaly than all the enemies that Thessaly ever had.On the jEtolians themselves he had made greater de­predations, when he was in alliance with them, thansince he became their enemy. He had seized on Ly-simachia, after dislodging the pretor and garrison ofthe jEtolians. Cius also, a city belonging to theirgovernment, he rased from the foundation. With thesame injustice, he held possession of Thebes in Phthi-otis, of Echinus, Larissa, and Pharsalus.' 84. Philip, provoked by this discourse of Alexander,pushed his ship nearer to the land, that he might bethe better heard, and began to speak with much vio­lence, particularly against the jEtolians. But Phameas,interrupting him, said that 'the business depended noton words; he must either conquer in war, or submit tohis superiors.'—' That, indeed, is evident,' said Philip,'even to the blind,' sneering at Phaeneas, who had adisorder in his eyes; for he was naturally fonder ofsuch pleasantries than became a king; and even in themidst of serious business, he indulged a turn to ridiculefarther than was decent. He then expressed great in­dignation at the ' /Etolians assuming as much import­ance as the Romans, and insisting on his evacuatingGreece; people who knew not even its boundaries:for, of jEtolia itself, a large proportion, consisting ofthe Agraeans, Apodeotians, and Amphilochians, wasno part of Greece. Have they just ground of com­plaint against me, for not refraining from war withtheir allies, when themselves, from the earliest period,follow, as an established rule, the practice of sufferingtheir young men to carry arms against those allies,withholding only the public authority of the state;while very frequently contending armies have jEtolianauxiliaries on both sides? I did not seize on Cius by