OCR Output •SOD OSMIDA.OSSET. of the Osi^mii to the northern coast of Baste Brr.~tonne, though there are the strongest reasons forthinking that they occupied the extremity of thesame continent in all its breadth and that the diocese(if Quirnper was a part of the territory as well as thediocese of Leon." D'Anville observes that there isno part, of ancient Gaul the geography of which ismore obscure. [ G. I-j O'SMIDA ('OtTfifta, Soyl. p. IS), a district ofCrete, which Mr. Pash ley's map places at thesources of the Mcf/dlo-poUauo, (Hock, Kreta, vol.i. p. .196.) [E. B J.] O'SPHAGUS, a branch of the river Erigon, inI.yncestis, upon which the consul Sulpicius pitchedhis camp in the campaign of B.C. 200 (Liv. xxxi.39); perhaps the same as the Sckemnitzn, anaffluent of the Erigon, which falls into it to the N.of Bitolia. [E. B.J.] OSQUIDATES, one of the copies of Aquitaniamentioned by Pliny (iv. 10). He mentions Oso,ui-dates Montani anil Liquidates Campestres, but lieenumerates many names between the two, from whichwe may roncli-.de that the Campestres did not borderon the Montani,for if ihey had, it is probable that hewould have enumerated the Campestres immediatelyafter the Montani instead of placing between themthe names of eleven peoples. Beside this, we mustlook for the Montani on the north side id" the Pyreneesand in the valleys of the Pyrenees, and the Campes­tres in the low country of Aquitania. There are nomeans for determining the position of either theMontani or the Campestres, except from the resem­blance between the ancient and the modern names inthis part of Gallia, which resemblance is often verygreat. Tims D'Anville supposes that the OmndatesMontani may have occupied the valley of Ossait,which extends from the foot of the Pyrenees toOleron, on a branch of the A dour. This is pro­bable enough, but his attempt to rind a position forthe Campestres is unsuccessful. [G. [,.] OSRHOE'XE, a small district in the NW. cornerof Mesopotamia (taken in its most extended sense),whirl) there is some reason for supposing would bern tp correctly written Orrhoene. It does not appearin any writer earlier than the times of the Anto-nines, and is not therefore mentioned by eitherStraho or Ptolemy. Procopius states that it de­rived its name from a certain (Woes, who ruledthere in former times (VYr>\ i. 17); and Dion Cas-sius declares that the name of the man who be­trayed the Roman army under Crassus was Ab^arusthe Osroenian (xl. 19; see for the same name. Ixviii.18, and lxxvii. 12.) Acain, Herodian calls thepeople who dwelt in those parts Osroeni (iii. 9, iv.7, vii. 1). Ammianus writes the name Osdroene(xiv. 3, 8, xxiv. 1). The name prevailed in thecountry as late as the seventh century. (Hierocl.p. 713.) In the Notitia lmperat. Osroene wasplaced under a "Praeses Provinciae,'' and appearsto have been sometimes included in Mesopotamia,sometimes kept separate from it. (See .Justinian,XotiL < it. § 11 ; Joan. Malalas, xi. p. 274, ed.Bonn; Xo, is. tfo Epoch, ii. p. 110.) It is mostlikely that the correct form of tlie name is Orrhoene;and that this is connected with the Mcwrovop^a ofIsidorus. (Stathm. Parik, \.\ and see Dion, Ixviii. 2,for the name of Mannus. a chief of the MesopotarnianArabs, who r;ave himself up to Trajan.) Not im­possibly, the Oruros of Pliuv may rc:er to the samedistrict', (vi. 30, 119.) [Edkssa.] [V.J OSSA ('Oaaa, Ptol. iii. 13. § 15), a town of the Bisaltae. which, before the arnm'. -.to the kingdom of Macedonia, moat hi" braplace of some importance from the f*rt of pasessing an autonomous coinage, (Eckbel, toL l. ^73.) It has been identified with Sokfo.i lureiilage on the S. side of the Xigrita inflii'An. twsome Hellenic remains are found on the rorraniiheights. Another ancient site at LoWw.aljN. road from Serves to Saloniki, hu tbo dnaibe considered the represent.iiive of Oca. itviiXorth. Greece, vol. in. pp. 213, 233.) [I V COIN OF OSSA. OSSA ("Oaaa), a loft y mountain in Tb?^the coast of Magnesia, separated f'om Olnnpwiby the narrow vale of Tempe. Hence it wiposed by the ancients that these tnotmtaiaionce united, and had l<ccn separated by u «quake. (Herod, vii. 129; Strab. ii- pp. 43UJLucan, vi. 347; Claudian, Jtnpt. Prostrp.5.1Ossa is conical in form and has only <>vPoly bin* mentions it as one of the higbof ■tains in Greece (xxxiv. 10); but it U WiiWKtlower tbati Olympus, arid according tolower than I'eliun. (Ov. Fast. iii. 441.) Afltag to Dodwell, who speaks, however, «cWconjecture, Ossa is about 5iMK) fret bijh. 1south of Ossa rise1- Mt. Pel ion, and th* l*si &the two mountains are united by a ta*(Herod, vii. 129.) Olympus, oia, wcA \ditfer greatly in character; and the c«w*standing between the other two. is * ell cirtwith the broad majesty of Olympus, am! tltended outline of Pelion. The It-n^th of <*»the coast is said by Straho to be SO lUdi* I443). It is hardly necessary to altuie Ipassages in tlie poets, in w hich Ossa b awdalonir with Olympus and Pelion, in tbi"piants and the p««d.v (Horn. Od. xi.312; Virf.ii. 282, &c.) The modern name of is A~(Holland. Trartls, &c. vol. ii. pp. 3. 9d. ^Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 106; Leak- Y.Greece, vol. i. p. 434, vol. iv. pp.4ll.5Wzieres, Me moire sur U I\lion et f Out.1853.) 2. A mountain in Elis near Olvmpia. |p. 817. b.] OSSADIAE ('OcradXtai). a people wh.^ ithe Panjoh al mc the banks of the Avsnnab), and who surrendered themselves to A'1the Great after the conquest of the Mam (.1(Arrian, vi. 15.) OSSARE'NE ('Orro-a^Hj, Ttol. t. 15- §tjap-qvi), Intirp.), a canton of ArmeriU Ion the banks of the river Cyrus. S:.{Mcin. sur V Armenie, Tol. i. p. 81) is *(that it may lx- the same as the GoGJhlStrata. [E. i O.^SET, also called Julia Ct.n*UntU (I'ina town of Baetica, on the ri^ht bank oi:Baetis, ami opposite to Hispalis. It is p1*modern & Juan dr Alfarueke, nrar CartCiasta, w here there arc some K-rr.so