OCR Output 88 [A. U. C. 769. THE ANNAL8 " subdued the nations between the Rhine and the"Elbe, dedicates this monument to Mars, to Jupiter," and Augustus." Of the commander in chief nomention was made. To soften envy, he assumed nopart of the praise, content with deserving it. Sterti-nius marched into the territory of the Angrivarians,with orders, if they did not submit, to lay the countrywaste. The barbarians surrendered at discretion, andreceived a general pardon. XXIII. The summer being now far advanced, Ger-manicus ordered some of the legions to return by landto winter quarters; he himself sailed with the rest,down the river Amisia to the main ocean. The wea­ther was favourable, and the sea presented a perfeetcalm, unruffled by any motion except what was oc­casioned by the dashing of the oars, and the rapidmotion of a thousand vessels under sail. But this se­renity did not last long: the sky was overcast; a stormof hail burst down with sudden fury; squalls of winddrove the billows different ways, and the pilot couldno longer see what course to steer. Unused to thotempestuous element, and terrified by the novelty ofthe danger, the soldiers added to the alarm. Theyinterfered with the mariners; they endeavoured tolend a helping hand ; but activity, without skill, serv­ed only to embarrass such as knew their duty. Thewinds at last were collected to one point, and thostorm blew directly from tho south. In that climate the south wind is generally moretempestuous than in other seas. Sweeping over thebleak German mountains, it drives from the land avast body of clouds, that form a scene of impendinghorror, which the vicinity of the northern regions ren­ders still more formidable. The ships were dispersed:some were thrown on unknown islands, surroundedwith rocks, or upon banks of sand that lay concealedbeneath the waves. At the turn of the tide, the windand the current, with united force, drove one way.To lie at anchor w as impossible. The billows brokeover the ships with such violence, that all the pumpsat work could not discharge the water. To lighten