OCR Output VENETIA. VEN1C0NES. 1275 n the liill above the baths of Aponus, one of the■roup in question; and Martial gives the name of Kneanrae Orac" to the hills near the town ofHole (£*<*), at the southern extremity of the samesage. (Lucan. vii. 192; Martial, x. 93). There in, therefore, be no doubt that this beautiful range( hills was known in ancient times as the Euganei :ui«. The liters of Vcnetia are numerous, but, for theeisons already mentioned, not always easy tolirntify. Much the largest and most important istie A thesis (Adige), which at one period formedlie boundary of the province, and which, emergingr<ro the Alps, near Verona, sweeps round in a greatarve till it pours its waters into the Adriatic only an miles N. of the mouths of the Padua. The nextiw of any magnitude is the Medi'acus or Brenta,ihitk flows under the walls of l'atavium, and re-rim as a tributary the Bacchiglione, apparentlyla Mrdnacus Minor of Pliny. Afierthis (proceedingutasrds) comes the Sius (Sefe), a small stream"»ing by the town of Altinum: next, the PlavisItatt), a much more important river, which rises9 the Alps above Belunnm (Belhmo), flows past thatilr sod Feltria (Feltre), and enters the sea a fewnit* E. of Altinum: then the Liqukktia (l.icrnza),ad the ttoUATlsus (Lemcie), a small river flowingoder the walls of Concordia. Next to this comes;.e Tilavkmitub (Tagliamento), the most im-urtant of the rivers of the E. portion of Venetia,jung its sources in the high ranges of the AlpsU*e Jaliura Caroieum, whence it traverses the'liule plain of the Carni, nearly in a direct line<*in N. to S. Beyond tliis come several minor:«uns, which it is not easy to identify with ccr-a-nty: such are the Varanua and Anansus of Pliny,n-Uibly the Stella and the torrent of Connor; andbe A lax, which still bears the name of Atua. E.f these, again, come three considerable streams, thei luiua, Natiso, and Sontrs, which still preserveMr ancient names, as the Torre, Natuone, and<a», but have undergone considerable changes inbe lower part of their course, the Natiso havingmn-rly Sowed under the walls of Aimileia, about miles W. of its present channel, while the Isotuo,uich now unites with it, originally followed an in-r[*aJenl channel to the sea, near Munfalcone.ue laomzo receives a considerable tributary fromit E., the WippticK or Vipno, which descendsinn the elevated (able-land of the Kant, and wassown in ancient times as the Funics F'rioidus.t was by the valley of this river that the great high.aU tram the banks of the Danube, after crossingM dreary highlands of Camiola, descended to.■(uileia and the plains of Venetia. On the externamnnea of the province the little river Timavusnut be mentioned, on account of its classical cele-itty, though of no geographical importance ; and>r Fdkmio (Auono), a few uiiies & of Tergeste,inch, from the time of Pliny, constituted the limitetwees V'eoetia and Istria. (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22.) The cities and towns of Venetia may now be enu-•Taied in geographical order. Farthest to the W.,il l situated on the Athetis, was the important city( Vckona. Considerably to the E. of this was rkjitia, and beyond that again, Patavicm. 8.I Yicentia, at the southern extremity of the Eu-ineau lulls, was Atestk (£'(«). On the borderI 'he lagunca, at their N. extremity, was Altinum,ad 30 miles farther to the E., Coscordia. In-sua from these lay Opitkboium and Tahvisium, both of Uiem considerable towns; and on the slopesof the hills forming the lowest underfills of the Alps,the smaller towns of Acf.i.um (AmoIo) and Ceneta(Ceneda), the name of which is found in Agathiasand Paulus Diaconus (Agath. IlitL Goth. ii. 8;P. Diac. ii. 13), and was in all probability a 1 tomantown, though not mentioned by any earlier writer.Still farther inland, in the valley of the 1'lavis, wereFklthia and Belunuu. E. of the Tilavemptus,and therefore included in the territory of the Carni,were Aquileta, near the sea-coast; FoiU'M Jli.ii,N. of the preceding; Veimscm (Wine), fartherto the W.; and Ji i.irM Cakkicum, in the uppervalley of the Tilavemptus, and in the midst of theAlps. Tergestk, on the E. side of the bay towhich it gave its name, was the last city of Venetia,and was indeed by many writers considered as be­longing to Istria. [Tergeste]. Besides these, there were in the land of the Carniseveral smaller towns, the names of which are men­tioned by Pliny (iii. 19. s. 23), or are found for thefirst time in Paulus Diaconus and the Geographerof Ravenna, but were in all probability Roman towns,which had grown up under the Empire. Of these,Flamonia(Plin.)is probably Flagogna, in the valleyof the Tagliamento ; Osopum (P. Diac iv. 38) is stillcalled Osopo, and Glcmona, Gemona, higher up inthe same valley; and Anemia, Artegna, a fewmiles SE. of the preceding. Cormones (ii.) is stillcalled Cormoru, a small town between Cividale andGraduca ; and PuciHl'M (Plin., Ptol.) is Duino,Dear the sources of the Tiuutvus. The other obscure names mentioned by Pliny (i c),and of which he himself says, 41 quos scrupulasedicerc non attineat," were apfiarently for the mostpart mountain tribes or communities, and cannot bedetermined with any approach to certainty. Venetia was traversed by a great lino of high­road, which proceeded from Aquileia to Verona, andthence to Mediolanum, and formed the great high­way of communication from the latter city to theDanube and the provinces of the Eastern Empire.It passed through Concordia, Altinum, Palaviurn,Vitentia, and Verona. From Pataviom a branchstruck off through Ateste and Anneianum (probablyLegtiago on the Adige) to join the Aemilian Way atMutina. A still more direct line of communicationwas established from Altinum to Ravenna by water,through the lagunes and artificial canals which com.manicated from one to another of these sheets ofwater. This line of route (if such it can be called)is briefly indicated by the Antonine Itinerary (" inde[a Ravenna] navigantur Septem Maria Altinumusque," p. 126) ; while the stations are given in de­tail by the Tabula; but from the fluctuations thatthe lagunes have undergone, few of them can beidentified with any certaintv. [E. 11. B.] VENETIA, in GauL [Veseti.]VENE1TCAE 1NSUI.AE, in Gallia, mentionedby Pliny (iv. 19), are the numerous small islandsalong the coast of Venetia, or the modern departmentof MorbVian. The largest is Belie-ile. The othersare Uouat, Medic, Groain, and some others. Per­haps the peninsula of Quiberon may be included[V'eweti ; Vixiiius]. [G-k]VENETUS LACliS. [BRioAnnsus Lacus.]VENIA'TIA, a place in Gallaecia in HispaniaTarraconensis, on the road from Bracara to Astu-rica. (/(in. Ant. p. 423.) Variously identifiedwith l inAura, l araina, and Ktqvejo. f T. H. I).]VEMCO NES (Owiwm, Ptol. ii. 3. § 14), a