OCR Output SYRIA. 1071 SYRIA. i Mir Ayas, and again in larger masses at..Uk distance from the KE. side of the chain.;^wanl of Beilan the chain becomes remarkablewrrated sides and numerous summits, of:he Akhma Tayh shows about fifteen between\at and the valley of the Orontes." The sharpJcUlHhoms terminates in the rugged and ser­ais of Cc^wAVmnztr, which overhangs the sea,urates the Gulf of Jskanderun from the Bayxxk. South of this is Jebcl Musa, the Monsi classic writers, a limestone offset fromRhomt, and itself imperfectly connected withlier classical mount, Casius, by the lowerof Jebel Sim6n. A little to the south of•bouchure of the Orontes, Mount Casius• an elevation of 5699 feet, composed ofmateoos limestone, on the skirts of which,the birch and larch woods, are still to be? ruins of the temple, said to have been con-~i by Cronus or Ham (Ammianns Marccll.14), while the upper part of its cone is entirelyd rock, justifying its native modern name*UAkra (the bald mountain). From this'fie mountain chain continues southward, at a■imvr elevation, and receding further from thethrows oat its roots both east and west,'s th« Orontes on the one aide and the Medi-on the other. This range has the generalof Jebel Anzarieh from the tribe that in*it. but is distinguished in its various partsinches by local names, chiefly derived fromwns and villages on its sides or base. The»rn termination of this range must be the in*uii* plains which Pliny places between Libanus\i L'ylus (" interjacentes cam pi r), on the northformer. (PUn. v. 20.) These plains Shawin the Jetme (fruitful), as tho Arabs calltparatively level tract, which "commences a•oath of Maguzzel, and ends at Sumrah, ex-itself all the way from the sea to the east-s->metimes five, sometimes biz or seven leagues,i ia terminated by a long chain of mountains. MYm to be the Mons Bargylus of Pliny."ast be identifies with Simyra,— which Pliny% in C«ele>yria at tho northern extremity of.t Libanus,—but remarks that, as Sumrah liesJi-une, 2 leagues distant from that mountain,circumstance will better fall in with Area,'Mount Libanus is remarkably broken off andbtinned. (Shaw, Travels in Syria, pp. 268,4U> «d.) We here reach the confines of Phoe-1o which a separate article has been devoted,*o to Mount Lebanon, which continues thecoast-■ * The southern extremity of Syria.* urlesyria, and the valley of the Orontes. —•j^b the name of Coelesyria (Hollow Syria)■retimes extended so as to include even the4.4 the Mediterranean—as in the passage abovefr»*n Pliny—from Scleucis to Egypt and Arabiamt infra"), and especially the prolongation of, -citiwrn valley along the crevass of the Jordan- X*adSea(f«e Reland, Palaestina, pp. 103,607, 774), yet, according to Strabo, the name: I v describes the valley between Libanus andi: *nus (xvi. 2. § 21), now known among theas El-Buk&'a (tiie deep plain). "Under.mjzu* is embraced the valley between LebanonA-nti-Lebanon, from Zahleh southward; in-\g the villages on the declivities of both moun-er rather at their foot: for the eastern dc-r of Lebanon is so steep as to have very few villages much above its base; and the western sideof Anti-Lebanon is not more inhabited. BetweenZahleh and its suburb, Mu'allahah, a stream calledEl-Burdony descends from Lebanon and runs intothe plain to join the Litany. The latter river di­vides the Buhaa from north to south ; and at itssouthern end passes out through a narrow gorge,between precipices in some places of great height,and finally enters the sea north of Sur, where it iscalled Kasimeyeh* [Leoktks]. To the south ofthe Buhi a is the Merj 'Ayvn {meadow of thesprings), " between Beldd Beshdrah and Wddy-et-Teim, on the left of the Lttdny. Here Lebanon andAnti-Lebanon come together, but in such a mannerthat this district may be said to separate ratherthan to unite them. It consists of a beautiful fertileplain, surrounded by hills, in some parts high, butalmost every where arable, until you begin to descendtowards the Litany. The mountains farther southare much more properly a continuation of Lebanonthan of Anti-Lebanon." (Dr. Eli Smith, in BiblicalResearches, vol. hi. Appendix B. pp. 136, 140.)This then is the proper termination to the south ofCoele.syria. The Merj 'Ayun terminates in theErd-el-Huleh, which is traversed by the several tri­butaries of the Jordan, and extends as far south asthe Bahr-el-IIuleh. [Samachoniti8 Lacus; Pa-lae-stina, pp. 521, 522.] To return now to the watershed. Baalbek givesits name to tho remainder of the Bukaa, from thevillage of Zahleh northward (Smith, ul sup. p. 143),in which direction, as has been stated, the re­motest sources of the Orontes are found, not farfrom Baalbek, which lies in the plain nearer to therange of Antilibanus than to Lebanon. [Okontks;Hkuopoi.is.] The copious fountain of Latncehis about 10 miles north-east of Baalbek; and thisvillage gives its name to the stream which runs forJ 2 miles through a rocky desert, until it falls intothe basin of a much larger stream at the village ofEr-Ras or 'Ain Zerka, where is the proper sourceof the Orontes, now El-Azi. The body of waternow " becomes at least threefold greater than before,and continues in its rugged chasm generally in anorth-easterly course for a considerable distance,until it passes near Ribleh" then runs north throughthe valley of Horns, having been fed on its way bynumerous streams from the slopes of Lebanon andAntilibanus, draining the slopes of Jebel Anzerieh,and forming as it approaches Horns the BaJir-tl-Kadts. which is 6 miles long by about 2 wide.(Chesney, ut sup. p. 394; Robinson, Journal of theR. G. S. vol. xxiv. p. 32.) Emerging from the lake,it waters the gardens of Horns about a mile and ahalf to the nest of the town, then running north toEr-Rustan, where is a bridge of ten arches, it isturned from its direct cour.Mj by Jebel A rbdyn onits left bank, round the mots of which it sweepsalmost in a semicircle, and enters Hamah, where itis crossed by a bridge of thirteen arches. It nowcontinues its course north-west for about 15 milesto Kaluat-es-Sejar (Larissa), then due wc>t for 8miles, when it turns duo north, and so continues tothe Jisr Hadid mentioned below. About 20 milesbelow Larissa it passes KaU'tat-em-Medaik (Apa-meia) on its right bank, di.ttant about 2 miles; alittle to the north of which it receives an affluentfrom the small lake Et-Taka, remarkable for itsabundance of black-fish and carp (Burckliardt, Syria,p. 143; Chcsney, p. 395), then, running throughWwly-el- Ghab, enters the Birlxt-el-Hoicosh, 8 miles