OCR Output THKTUU PROM. r.<27 TKEVIDOX. romcntory of Numidia at the W. point of tin Sinuslacoita. (Strab. xvii. p. 829, 832.) It probablyshred its name from the numerous cares in the cliffs,hteli&re still the larking places of the piratical tribestlhU coast. Now Sebba Km. [T. H. D.] TRETUMPROM. (Tprrrii>',Staa*iim. §327), theIV. promontory of Crete now called Grabuta, theb»TTCT of Ptolemy. [E. B. J.] TRETCa [Aroos, p. 201, b.] TRKVA (Tpnooo), a town of the Saxones inorth-westem Germany (Ptol. ii. 11. § 27), whichlot: hare been situated somewhere on the Trace,nun further details are known, it is impossiblei fix its site with any degree of certainty. [L. S.]TKKVENTUM or TEREVEXTUM (Etk. Tre-ralinu, I'liru; but inscriptions have Terventinasid Tereventinas: Trmntu), a town of Samnium, ■ tire country of the IVntri, situated on the righti.-.k of the Trinius (Triijno), not far from the'ml iera of the Frentani. Its name is not noticedi h itory, bnt Pliny mentions it among the muni-|ul towns of Samnium in his time: and we learnom the Liber Coloniarum that it receiTed a Roman'Ifly, apparently nnder the Triumvirate (Plin. iii.I. s. 17; Lib. Colon, p. 23S). It is there spoken is having been (hrice besieged (u ager ejus ... postHum obsidionem adsignatus est"), probably during ■ Social War and the civil wars that followed;it we hare no other account of these sieges; and name is not elsewhere mentioned. But fromlutirir, remains, as well as inscriptions, it appears ■ have been a place of considerable importance, as'II as of municipal rank. The modern Trecento,hicli is still the see of a bishop and the capital of>' surrounding district, stands on a hill above thevrr Trigno, but the rains of ancient buildings anda/ments of masonry are scattered to a considerableii-n! through the valley below it. (Romanelli,a, ii. p. 473.) The inscriptions which have been■emend there are given by Mommscn (Inter. !(. pp. 269, 270). [E H. B.] TREVERI or TREVIRI (Tonotipot, TpiSnpoJ,lei). There is authority for both forms of thebm. The position of the Treviri is determined several passages of Caesar. The Treviri borderedthe Rhine (B. G.UL 11, iv. 10), and south of them■n? the Rhine were the Triboci or Tribooci. Tlieiuenna Silva extended through the middle of thentory of the Treviri from the Rhine to the eom-ncirinent of the territory of the Remi (B. G. v. 3).>e Treviri were separated from the Germans by theme (B. G. vii. 63, viii. 25); the Ubii were theirrbbours on the opposite side of the Rhine (/.'.29,35). In Caesar's time the Treviri differed littlem the Germans in their way of living and their sa-T temper. Tacitus remarks (de Mot. Germ. c.) that the Treviri and Ncrvii affected a Germanicrin, and it is probable that the Treviri were[ad with Germans, but Caesar supposed them toa Gallic people. Mela (iii. 2) calls them the most'<vrued of the Belgae. When Hieronymua speaksthe resemblance between the language of thelata* of Asia and of the Treviri, he means to say>: the Treviri are Galli [Galatia, Vol. I. p. 931].abo (iv. p. 194) speaks of the Ncrvii as beingrman. He says: "The Nervii are neighbours of Treviri, and they (the Nervii) are also a Germanpie;" which remark about the Ncrvii being alsorman does not refer to the Treviri, but to the Tri-i, whom be had just spoken of as a German nationich had settled on the Gallic side of the Rhine It seems impossible to determine whether Caesarincludes the Treviri among the Belgae or the Celtae.Some geographers include them in the Gallia ofCaesar in the limited sense, that is, in the country ofthe Celtae, which lay between the Garonne and theSeine, and between the Ocean and the Rhine. If thisdetermination is correct, the Mediomatrici also ofcourse belong to Caesar's Gallia in the limited sense.[Mkoiohatkici. ] The Treviri are often mentioned by Caesar, forthey bad a strong body of cavalry and infantry, andoften gave him trouble. From one passage (B. G.vi. 32) it appears that the Segni and Condrusi,Gentian settlers in Gallia, were between the Treviriand the Eburones; and the Condrusi and Eburone*were dependents i f the Treviri (B. G. iv. 6). Caesarconstructed his bridges over the Rhine in the territoryof the Treviri (B. G. vL 9); and Strabo speaks of abridge over the Rhine in the territory of the Treviri.It appears then that tho Treviri occupied a largetract of country between the Mosa (Maat) and theRhine, which country was intersected by the lowercourse of the Mosella (Motel), for Augusta Trevi-rorum (Trier), on the Mosella, was the chief townof the Treviri in the Roman imperial period andprobably a town of the Treviri in Caesar's time. Itis not possible to fix the exact limits of the Trevirion the Rhine, either to the north or the south.When the Germans were settled on the west side ofthe Rhine by Agrippa and after bis time, theTreviri lost part of their territory; and some modernwriters maintain that they lost ull their country onthe Rhine, a conclusion derived from a passage ofPliny (iv. c. 17), but a conclusion by no meanscertain. Another passage of Pliny, cited by Sueto­nius (Calig. c. 8), says that Caligula was born"in Treveris, vico Ambiatino, supra Contiuentes,"and this passage places the Treviri on the Rhine.Ptolemy in his geography gives the Treviri noplace on the Rhine: he assigns the land on thewest bank of the river to the Gennania In­ferior and Gennania Superior. The bishopric ofTrier used to extend from the Moat to the Rhine,and along the Rhine from the Akr below Andernackas far south as Bingen. The limits of the oldcountry of the Treviri and of the diocese may havebeen the same, for we find many examples of thiscoincidence in the geography of Gallia. The ruggedvalley of the Ahr would be a natural boundary ofthe Treviri on the north. Tacitus gives the Treviri the name of Socii (Ann.i. 63); and in his time, and probably before, theybad what the Romans called a Curia or senate.The name of the Treviri often appears in the historyof the war with Civilia (Tacit. Uitt. iv.). The Treviriunder the Empire were in that part of Gallia whichwas named Belglca, and their city Augusta Trevi-rorum was the chief place, and under the lateremperors frequently an imperial residence. [At -ci'sta Trkviroruk.] [G. il] TREVIDON, a place in Gallia, mentioned by Si-donius ApoUinaris (IVopempt.), the position of whichis partly determined by the fact of the poet fixingTrevidon in the mountainous region of CentralFrance, and partly by the existence of a place namedTreve on the boundary of the old province ofKouergne, and on a little river named Tretael.The mountain in which the Tretetel rises (Let-perou) is the "Vicinum nimis hen! jugum Ratenis"of Sidonius. [Rutehi.] [G. L.]