OCR Output 430 ROMAN EMPIRE. of the Romans.' After the fall of this opulent city, theprovincials and barbarians implored on all sides themercy of the conqueror. His vanity or his zeal might beflattered by offers of tribute, or professions of faith: buthis losses, his fatigues, and the progress of an epidemicaldisease, prevented a solid establishment; and the Sara­cens, after a campaign of fifteen months, retreated to theconfines of Egypt, with the captives and the wealth oftheir African expedition. The caliph's fifth was grantedto a favourite, on the nominal payment of five hundredthousand pieces of gold;' but the state was doubly in­jured by this fallacious transaction, if each foot-soldierhad shared one thousand, and each horseman three thou­sand, pieces, in the real division of the plunder. The au­thor of the death of Gregory was expected to have claim­ed the most precious reward of the victory: from hissilence it might be presumed that he had fallen in thebattle, till the tears and exclamations of the prefect'sdaughter at the sight of Zobeir revealed the valour andmodesty of that gallant soldier. The unfortunate virginwas offered, and almost rejected, as a slave, by her fa­ther's murderer, who coolly declared that his sword wasconsecrated to the service of religion; and that he la­boured for a recompense far above the charms of mortalbeauty, or the riches of this transitory life. A rewardcongenial to his temper, was the honourable commissionof announcing to the caliph Othman the success of hisarms. The companions, the chiefs, and the people, wereassembled in the mosch of Medina, to hear the interest­ing narrative of Zobeir; and, as the orator forgot no­thing except the merit of his own counsels and actions, 'Shaw's Travels, p. 118,119. 1 Mimica emptio (says Abulfeda),erathaec, etmiradouatio; quandoquidem Oth­man, ejus nomine minimus ex Eerario prills ablatos a-rario prastabat. (Annnl.Moslem, p. 78.) Elmacin (in his cloudy version, p. 39.) seems to report the samejob. When the Arabs besieged the palace of Othman, it stood high in their cata­logue of grievances.