OCR Output CHAP. 54.' ROMAN HISTORY. 389 CHAP. LIV. Three plebeian quecstors cboten., J. HE consuls elected upon this occasion were Cn. Cor­nelius Cossus, and L. Furius MeduMinus, for the secondtime. At no time were the people more highly pro­voked than at this, when they were not permitted toehuse military tribunes. But they both consoled andavenged themselves on that account, in the election ofquEestors. This was the first time that Plebeians wereadmitted to the Quaestorship; and of four places, therewas only one reserved for Caeso Fabius Ambustus, a Pa­trician, Q. Silius, P. jElius, and P. Pupius, were prefer­red to the sons of the first families in Rome. I find that'three of the Icilian family, who had been chosen tri­bunes that year, and noted for the inveteracy of their fa-'mily against the Patricians, were the principal instfga-tors of the people to assume this freedom in giving theirsuffrages, promising them innumerable advantages, ofwhich they were excessively fond; but declaring at thesame time, that they would not move a step towards theexecution of them, if at the Comitia for electing quaes­tors, the only officers whom the senate had left them atliberty to choose indiscriminately out of either order,theyhad not resolution enough to effectuate what they had solong inclined, and what the laws left them at liberty to<Io. The people considered this as a very great victory;for they did not estimate the quaMtorship from the in­trinsic privileges of the office, but as it opened a doijr bywhich men of low birth might enter to the consulshipand to triumphs. On the other hand, the fathers murmured, not be­cause the honours of the state were to be shared withthe commons, but because they were in a fair way tolose them altogether. They insisted, that if they wereto go on at this rate, it was needless to train up childrenfor exalted stations, if they were to be supplanted in theoffices of their ancestors, and see others in possession ofthe honours due to them, whilst they were left in theobscure offices of priests and Salii, with no other em­