OCR Output C. I.] THE TOWER OP ANTONIA. 243 head with his left hand, and had with his right hand drawnhis sword, he marched up to the wall, just about the sixthhour of the day. There followed him eleven others, and nomore, that resolved to imitate his bravery; but still this wasthe principal person of them all, and went first, as excited bya divine fury. Now those that guarded the wall shot at themfrom thence, and cast innumerable darts upon them fromevery side; they also rolled very large stones upon them,which overthrew some of those eleven that were with him.But as for Sabinus himself, he met the darts that were castat him; and though he were overwhelmed with them, yet didhe not leave off the violence of his attack before he had gottenup on the top of the wall-, and had put the enemy to flight:for as the Jews were astonished at his great strength and thebravery of his soul, and as, withal, they imagined more ofthem had got upon the wall than really had, they were putto flight. And now one cannot but complain here of fortune,as still envious at virtue, and always hindering the perform­ance of glorious achievements : this was the case of the manbefore us, when he had just obtained his purpose; for he thenstumbled at a certain large stone, and fell down upon it head­long, with a very great noise: upon which the Jews turnedback, and when they saw him to be alone, and fallen downalso, they threw darts at him from every side. However, hegot upon his knee, and covered himself with his shield, andat the first defended himself against them, and wounded manyof those that came near him: but he was soon forced to relaxhis right hand, by the multitude of the wounds that had beengiven him, till, at length, he was quite covered over with darts,before he gave up the ghost. Ho was one who deserved abetter fate, by reason of his bravery; but, as might be ex­pected, he fell under so vast an attempt. As for the rest ofhis partners, the Jews dashed three of them to pieces withstones, and slew them, as they were gotten up to the top ofthe wall; the other eight being wounded, were pulled down,and carried back to the camp. These things were done upon'he third day of the month Panemus [Tamuz.] 7. Now, two days afterward, twelve of those men that