OCR Output G2 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. The Par- Of still more importance in the sequel than this insurrec-thianem- tion of the Israelites was the contemporary movement—1ih-e. probably originating from the same cause—in the eastern provinces, where Antiochus Epiphanes emptied the templesof the Persian gods just as he had emptied that at Jerusalem,and doubtless accorded no better treatment to the adherentsof Ahuramazda and Mithra than to those of Jehovah. Justas in Judaea—only with a wider range and ampler propor­tions—the result was a reaction on the part of the nativemanners and the native religion against Hellenism and theHellenic gods; the promoters of this movement were theParthians, and out of it arose the great Parthian empire.The "Parthwa," or Parthians, who are early met with asone of the numerous tribes merged in the great Persianempire, living first of all in the modern Khorasan to the south-250. east of the Caspian sea, appear after 500 as an independentstate under the Scythian, i. e. Turanian, dynasty of theArsacidae. This state, however, only emerged from itsobscurity about a century afterwards. The sixth Arsaces,175-136. Mithradates I. (579 ?-618 P), was the real founder of thegreat Parthian power. The Bactrian empire, in itself far morepowerful, but already shaken to the very foundation partly byhostilities with the hordes of Scythian horsemen from Turanand with the states of the Indus, partly by internal dis­orders, succumbed to him. He achieved almost equalsuccesses in the countries to the west of the great desert.The Syrian empire was just then in the utmost disorganiza­tion, partly through the failure of the Hellenizing attempts ofAntiochus Epiphanes, partly through the troubles as to thesuccession that occurred after his death; and the provincesof the interior were in full course of breaking off fromAntioch and the region of the coast. In Commagene forinstance, the most northerly province of Syria on theCappadocian frontier, the satrap Ptolemaeus asserted hisindependence, as did also on the opposite bank of theEuphrates the prince of Edessa in northern Mesopotamiaor the province of Osroene, and the satrap Timarchus inthe important province of Media; in fact the latter got hisindependence confirmed by the Roman senate, and, sup­ported by Armenia as his ally, ruled as far down as Seleucia rains with the name of Simon, the prince (Nessi) of Israel, belong not to him,l)u t to Bar-Cochba the leader of the insurgents in the time of Hadrian.