OCR Output 328 [book xrr ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. water. Insomuch that on this occasion Jo­seph, Herod's brother, was contriving to runaway from it, with two hundred of his de­pendents, to the Arabians. For he had heardthat Malchus repented of the offences he hadbeen guilty of with regard to Herod. ButGod, by sending rain in the night time, pre­vented his going away; for their cisternswere thereby filled, and he was under no ne­cessity of removing on that account. Butthey were now of good courage; and themore so, because the sending that plenty ofwater which they had been sadly in want of,seemed a mark of Divine providence. Sothey made a sally, and fought hand to handwith Antigonus's soldiers, and destroyed agreat number of them. At the same timeVentidius, the general of the Romans, wassent out of Syria, to drive the Parthians outof it; and marched after them into Judea;in pretence indeed to succour Joseph; but inreality the whole affair was no more than astratagem, in order to get money of Antigo-nus. So they pitched their camp very nearto Jerusalem; and obtained a great deal ofmoney from Antigonus, and then he retiredhimself with the greater part of the army.But that the wickedness he had been guiltyof might not be found out, he left a certainpart of his soldiers, under the command ofSilo; with whom also Antigonus cultivatedan acquaintance; that he might cause him nodisturbance; and was still in hopes that theParthians would come again, and defend him. CHAP. XV. OF HEROd's RETURN FROM ITALY, AND HIS SUCCESSESAGAINST HIS ENEMIES BY this time Herod had sailed out of Italyto Ptolemais, and had gotten togethera numerous army, both of strangers and ofhis own countrymen; and marched throughGalilee against Antigonus. Silo also andVentidius came and assisted him; being per­suaded by Dellius, who was sent by Antonyto assist in bringing back Herod. Now Ven­tidius was employed in appeasing the disturb­ances that had been made in the cities, bythe means of the Parthians. And Silo was in Judea, but corrupted by Antigonus. How­ever, as Herod went along, his army increasedevery day; and all Galilee, with some smallexceptions, joined him. But as he was march­ing to those that were in Massada; for hewas obliged to endeavour to save those thatwere in that fortress, now they were be­sieged, because they were his relations:Joppa was a hindrance to him. For it wasnecessary for him to take that place first; itbeing a city at variance with him; that nostrong hold might be left in his enemies' handsbehind him, when he should goto Jerusalem.And when Silo made this a pretence for ri­sing up from Jerusalem, and was thereuponpursued by the Jews, Herod fell upon themwith a small body of men; and both put theJews to flight and saved Silo, when he wasvery unable to defend himself. But whenHerod had taken Joppa, he made haste toliberate those of his family that were in Mas­sada. Now of the people of the country somejoined him because of the friendship theyhad had with his father; and some becauseof the splendid appearance he made; andothers by way of requital for the benefits theyhad received from both of them: but thegreatest number came to him in hopes ofgetting somewhat from him afterward, if hewere once firmly settled in the kingdom. Herod had now* a strong army. And ashe marched on, Antigonus laid snares andambushes in the passes and places most pro­per for them. But in truth he thereby didlittle or no damage to the enemy. So Herodreceived those of his family out of Massada,and the fortress Ressa; and then went on forJerusalem. The soldiery also that was withSilo accompanied him all along: as did manyof the citizens; being afraid of his power.And as soon as he had pitched his camp onthe west side of the city, the soldiers thatwere set to guard that part shot their arrows,and threw their darts at him. And whensome sallied out in a crowd, and came tofight hand to hand with the first ranks ofHerod's army, he gave orders, that theyshould in the first place make proclamationabout the wall; that he came for the good ofthe people, and for the preservation of (he tioned both here, and Of the War, I. 15. is an indicationthat it was now summer time: which agrees to my deter­mination of the time of the year when Herod was made king at Rome. See Harm, of the Evang. page 150,151.* An. 39.