OCR Output ICABUSA. II ICIITHYOPHAGI. 99; Ptol. t. 2. § 30; P. Mela, ii. 7.) Modem writersderive the name of Icaria from the Ionic word nipa,a pasture (Hesych. s. v. K-ip), according to which itwould mean "the posture land." In earlier timesit is said to have been called Doliche (Plin. L c;Callim. Hymn, in Dion. 187), Maoris (Plin. L c;EusUth. ad Dionys. Per. 530; Liv. xxvii. 13), andIchthyuessa (Plin. L c). Respecting the present con­dition of ihe island, see Tournefort, Voyage du Le­vant, ii. lett. 9. p. 94; and Ross, lieisen auf denOrieck. I rutin, vol. ii. p. 164, fol. [I.. K.J COW OF1 OB30E OR OKNAK, IN ICARUS. ICARUSA, a river the embonc.ho.re of which ison the E. coast of the Euxine, mentioned only byPliny (vi. 5). Icarosa answers to the Vkrash river;and the town and river of Hieros is doubtless theHikros PoRTUS (Uphi Aip^r) of Arrian (PeripLp. 19), which has been identified with Sunjtii-kala.(Keimell. Compar. Geog. vol. ii. p. 328.) [E. B. J.] ICAUSUS or 1CAUNA (Fonne), iu Gallia, ariver which is a branch of the Sequana (Seine').Antcsiodurum or Autessiodnrum (Auzerre) is onthe }'ome. The name Icaunns is only known frominscriptions. DAnville (Notice, <fc., s. v. Icauna)Mates, on the authority of the Abbe" le Beuf, thatthere was found on a stone on the modem wall ofAnxerre the inscription dkak ICAVXL He sup­poses that Icanni ought to be Icanniae, but withoutany good reason. He also adds that the nameIcauna appears in a writing of the fifth century.According to Ukert (GaBien, p. 145), who also citesLe Beuf, the inscription is "Deabus Icauni." It is•aid that in the ninth century Auxtrre was namedIcauna, Hionna, Jnnia. (Millin, Voyage, i. p. 167,cited by Ukert, Gallien, p. 474.) Icauna is aslikely to be the Roman form of the original Celticname as Icaunus. [G. I..] ICENI, in Britain. Tacitus is the only authorwho gives us the exact form Iceni. He mentionsthem twice. First, they are defeated by the propraetor P. Os-tnrius, who, after fortifying the valleys of the Autona(Aufbna) and Sabrina, reduces the Iceni, and theninarcnes against the Cangi, a population sufficientlydistant from Norfolk or Suffolk (the area of theIceni) to be near the Irish Sea. {Ann. xii. 31, 32.)The difficulties that attend the geography of thecampaign of Ostorius have been indicated in thearticle Camcioduxvm. It is not from this passagethat we fix the Iceni. The second notice gives us the account of theITeat rebellion under Boadicea, wife of Prasutagus.From this we infer that Camulodunnm was not farfrom the Icenian area, and that the Trinobantes werea neighbouring population. Perhaps we arc justi­fied in carrying the Iceni as far south as the fron­tiers of Essex and Herts. (Ann. xiv. 31—37.) The real reason, however, for fixing the Iceni liesin the assumption that they are the same as theSimcni of Ptolemy, whose town was Venta (A'or-n'cA or Caistor); an assumption that is quite rea-sucable, since the Venta of Ptolemy's Simcni is men­ tioned in the Itinerary as the Ventn Icenorum, andin contradistinction to the Venta Belgarum ( Win­chester). [R. G. L.] ICH ('Ix)i » river of Central Asia which onlyoccurs in Menander of Byzantium (Hist. Legal. Bar-baroruin ad Romanos, p. 300, ed. Niebuhr, Bonn,1829), snrnamed the "Protector," and contempo­rary with the emperor Maurice, in the 6th centuryafter Christ, to whom comparative geography isindebted for much curious information about thebasin of the Caspian and the rivers which dischargethemselves into it on the K. Niebuhr has recognised,in the passage from Menander to which referencehas been made, the first intimation of the knowledgeof the existence of the lake of Aral, after the veryvague intimations of some among the authors of theclassical period. Von Humboldt (Asie Centralc,vol. ii. p. 186) has identified the Ich with the£ra4aor Djem, which rises in the mountain range Ai-ruruk, not far from the sources of the Or, and, aftertraversing the sandy steppes of Saghiz and Ba-kmtnibn'i, falls into the Caspian at its NE. comer.(Comp. Levchine, Hordes el Steppes des Kirqhiz-Kazalci, p. 65.) [E. B. J.] ICHAXA ('Ixara: Eth, 'Ixarirot), a city ofSicily, which, according to Stephunus of liyzantium,held out for a long time against the arms of theSyracusans, whence he derives its name (from theverb Ixavdu, a form equivalent to laxavdu), butgives us no indication of the period to which thisstatement refers. The Ichanenses, however, arementioned by Pliny (iii. 8. s. 14) among the sti­pendiary towns of the interior of Sicily, though,according to Sillig (ad loc.), the true reading isIpanenses. [Hippaha.] In either case we haveno clue to the position of the city, and it is a mererandom conjecture of Cluverius to give the name ofIchana to the ruins of a city which still remain ata place called Vindkari, a few miles N. of CapePachynum, and which were identified (with stillless probability) by Fazello as those of Imachara.[Imachara.] [E. H. B.] ICHNAE ('Ix«"), a city of Bottiaca, in Mace­donia, which Herodotus (vii. 123) couples with l'ella.(Leake, Travels in Northern Greece, vol. iv. p.582.) [E.B.J.] ICHNAE Ox"", Isid. Char. p. 3; Stepli. B.«.»'), a small fortified town, or castle, in Meso­potamia, situated on the river Bilecha, which itselfflowed into the Euphrates. It is said by Isidbrus tohave owed its origin to the Macedonians. Therecan be little doubt that it is the same place as iscalled in Dion Cassius 'Ixwoi (xl. 12), and in Plu­tarch "rffx«" (Crass, c. 25). According to theformer writer, it was the place where Crassus over-camo Talymcnus: according to the latter, that towhich the younger Crassus was persuaded to flywhen wounded. Its exact position cannot be deter­mined; but it is clear that it was not far distantfrom the important town of Carrhae. [V.] ICC1US PORTUS. [Itius.] ICHTHYO'PHAGI (Tx*i»<jKryo., Diod. iii. 15,seq.; Herod, iii. 19 ; Pausan. i. 33. § 4; Plin. vi. 30.s. 32), were one of the numerous tribes dwellingon each shore of the Red Sea which derived theirappellation from the principal article of their diet.Fish-eaters, however, were not confined to this region:in t he present day, savages, whose only diet is fi»h castashore and cooked in the sun, are found on the coastsof New Holland. The Aethiopian Ichthyophagi, whoappear to have been the most numerous of these