OCR Output 230 GREAT SLAUGHTERS [B. V. 3. In the mean time Josephus, as ho was going round thecity, had his head wounded by a stone that was thrown athim, upon which he fell down as giddy; upon which fall ofhis the Jews made a sally, and he had been hurried into thecity, if Caesar had not sent men to protect him immediately;and as these men were fighting, Josephus was taken up, thoughhe heard little of what was done. So the seditious supposedthey had now slain that man whom they were the most de­sirous of killing, and made thereupon a great noise in wayof rejoicing. This accident was told in the city; and themultitude that remained became very disconsolate at the news,as being persuaded that he was really dead, on whose accountalone they could venture to desert to the Romans. But whenJosephus's mother heard in prison that her son was dead, shesaid to those that watched about her, that " she had alwaysbeen of opinion, since the siege of Jotapata, [that he wouldbe slain,] and she should never enjoy him alive any more."She also made great lamentation privately to the maid ser­vants that were about her, and said,—" This was all the ad­vantage she had of bringing so extraordinary a person asthis son into the world, that she should not be able even tobury that son of hers, by whom she expected to have beenburied herself." However, this false report did not put hismother to pain, nor afford merriment to the robbers long,for Josephus soon recovered of his wound, and came out, andcried out aloud,—" That it would not be long ere they shouldbe punished for this wound they had given him." He alsomade a fresh exhortation to the people to come out upon thesecurity that would be given them. This sight of Josephusencouraged the people greatly, and brought a great conster­nation upon the seditious. 4. Hereupon some of the deserters, having no other way,leaped down from the wall immediately, while others of themwent out of the city with stones, as if they would fight them;but thereupon they fled away to the Romans. But hero aworse fate accompanied these than what they had found with­in the city; and they met with a quicker dispatch from thetoo great abundance they had among the Romans than they