OCR Output THIRD VOLUME. 353 ♦he Delphic prophetess predicted future events, but the mannerin which this was accomplished by the prophetesses in Colophonand Branchidæ j and satisfactorily shews us how the gods com­municate prophecy to mankind. "It is acknowledged by all men, that the oracle in Colophongives its answers through the medium of water: for there is afountain in a subterranean dwelling, from which the prophetessdrinks; and on certain established nights, after many sacred ntelhave been previously perfoimed, and she has drunk of- the foun­tain, she delivers oracles, but is not visible to those that are pre­sent. That this water therefore is prophetic, is from hence ma­nifest. But how it becomes so, this (according to the proverb)is not for every man to know. For it appears as if a certain pro­phetic spirit pervaded through the water. This is not howeverin reality the cafe. For a divine nature does not pervade throughits participants in this manner, according to interval and division,but comprehends as it were externally, and illuminates the foun­tain, and fills it from itself with a prophetic power. For the in­spiration which the water affords is not the whole of that whichproceeds from a divine power, but the water itself only preparesus^tand purifies our luciform spirit, so that we may be able to re­ceive the divinity; while in the mean time there is a presence ofdivinity prior to this, and illuminating from on high. And thisindeed is not absent from any one, who through aptitude is ca­pable of being conjoined with it. But this divine illumination isimmediately present, and uses the prophetess as an instrument;she neither being any longer mistress of herself, nor capable ofattending to what she says, nor perceiving where (he is. Henceafter prediction she is scarcely able to recover herself. And be­fore she drinks the water, flic abstains from food for a whole dayand night; and retiring to certain sacred places, inaccessible tothe multitude, begins to receive in them the enthusiastic energyiThrough her departure, therefore, and separation from humanconcerns, she renders herself pure, and by this means adapted toVol. III. A a the