OCR Output ROMA. 93.') ROMA. w.fi On the Forum Olitorium also stood theMtai lactaria, so called because childrenn pvrided with milk at that spot. (Paul,•c f. 118.) The supposition that there wasi'm ■ KuacM 1'i.hcarium in this neighbour­ed Kit otily ou a doubtful reading in Varro..£.».§ 146.) R« Culpa* Flaminius began at an early period1» (icupicd with temples and other public build-r- Ow of tbe most ancient and renowned of thei» Tu die Temple or Apulia. The sitean ki hive been sacred lo that deity from very.' lass, and was called Apolunare, probably 0 ung altar which stood there. (Lir. iii. 63.) 1 Unpb was dedicated in b. c 430, in conse-aa af a row made with the view of aTerting aWarn. (Lit. iv. 25, 29.) It remained down to-it* of Augustus the only temple of Apollo at^ iliI most have been of considerable size,i tit senate frequently assembled in it. It lay lie Forum Olitorium and Circus Fla-i^, or, according to Pliny's designation, whichc-i to tbe same thing, close to the Porticusmat. (Ascon. ad Ck. in Tog. Cand. p. 90,1, Plia. xxivi. 5. a. 34.)'-'Ui celebrated and important temple was theu Belloxak, since it was tbe chief place fordblm of the senate when it was necessary for''- meet outside of the pomocrium; as, for «ben generals aim imperio were soliciting • fcr a triumph, for the reception of foreign»uJ-iri whom it was not advisable to admit'-a city, and other similar occasions. Close to« of the three Sen act LA mentioned by■ (p. 347). Tbe temple of Bellona is said tobw* built in pursuance of a vow made byw ( Uudius Caecus, in the battle against them, a. c 297 (Liv. x. 19); but accord- • Pliny (zzxt. 3) it was built by Appiusa» Kegilleiuis two centuries earlier, who. ■> iuufea of his forefatliers in it, B. c. 494;->:i isse tiie vow of Appius Claudius Caecus imt been accomplished by restoring the':*tnple. In front of the temple lay a smalli «aich stood the Columna Bkllka, so ^'*ok it was Uie spot whence the Fetialis * ivtct in the ceremony of declaring war. u» war with Pyrrhus broke out this custom M be obaerved in tbe usual manner by« Me lance into tbe enemy's country; wherc- '-s^ured Mikiier of Pyrrhua's was made to buy'* cround near the temple, which symbolisedM<rr of the enemy; and into this tho lanceaaf un all subsequent occasions of declaringK a people whose country lay beyond the3tv. ad Aen. ix. -j3.) This custom wasu lite as the time of Marcus AureliuB. Cast. Ixxi. 33.) There are two points in> stoat this temple; first, whether the area*H the Column* iiellica stood before or behindi MmaUy, whether the temple itself stood at■'~ or western end of the Circus Flaminius; *i:er question also concerns the site of the'Hiki l Lts Cistos, as will be seen from'-^■■'4 Lues of Chid (fast. vi. 206): — • templo snmmurn brevis area Circum:ibi boq pmrvae tssnra columna notae.'"«1 hasta manu. belli praenuntia, mitti,r*Tra et (rentes qoum placet anna capi.pi pars Circi custode sub liercule tuta est/'•i i!eu Euboico carmine muniis habet." In the first line Becker (llandb. p. 607) reads'• a tergo," with Merkel, instead of "a templo,"which is the reading of Heiusius, and of mosteditions, and thus places the area behind thetemple. Rut this was not the usual situation foran area, and there is express authority that thecolumn stood before the temple. (Paul. Diac. p.33;Scrv. /. c, where Becker admits that we shouldread ''ante aedem" for "ante pedem.") The otherpoint respecting the site of the temple depends onwhether "summus circus" means the pail wherethe carceres were, or the circular end. Beckeradopts the former meaning, and consequently placesthe temple of Bellona at the eastern end of thecircus, and that of Hercules Custos at the westernend. Urlichs reverses this order, and quotes insupport of his view Sahnasius, ad Solin. p. 639, A.:"Pars circi, ubi metae ultimae superior dicitnr;inferior ad carceres." (Antw. p. 31.) This is apoint that is nut altogether established; but Becker'sview seems in this case the more probable one, aswill appear a little further on, when we come totreat of the Villa Publica. The Circus Flaminius itself, which will bedescribed in another section, lay under the Capitol,on which side its carceres were, and extended in awesterly direction towards tbe river. Between itand the theatre of Marcellus lay the PouticusOctaviae,— which must be carefully distinguishedfrom the Porlicus Octavia, built by Cn.Octavius,—enclosing Tkmpi.es of JuriTtK Statok and Jl.no.This portico occupied the site of a fonner one builtby Q. Caecilius Metellus, after his Macedonian tri­umph, and called after him Poktici 3 Mktki.u.It seems most probable that tho two temples beforealluded to were in existence before the time w henMetellus erected his portico; but the notices on thissubject in ancient authors are obscure and contra­dictory. (Becker, llandb. p. 608, seq.) Therecan be no doubt, however, that the Porticus Oc-taviae superseded that of Metellus. (Plin. xxxiv.14 j cf. Plut, C. Cracch. 4.) It was erectedby Augustus, and dedicated in the name of hissister; but at what date is uncertain. (Suet. Aug.29 ; Ov. A. A. iii. 391.) It contained a library,which was destroyed in the great fire in the reign ofTitus, with all its literary treasures. (Dion Cass,xlix. 43, lxvi. 24; Suet. III. Gramm. 21.) Thislibrary was probably in the part called the "SchoUin porticibus Octaviae," and, like the Palatine library,was sometimes used for assemblies of the senate.(Plin. xxxv. 10. a. 114, xxxvi. 5, e. 22. s. 28;Dion Cass. lv. 8.) Hence, it was even called OctaviaCuria, and sometimes Octaviae Opera. The chinchof S. Angela in I'escaria now stands opposite to itsprincipal entrance towards the river. Close to the Porticus Octaviae, on its westernside, lay the Pokticts Philippi, enclosing a tem­ple of Hercules Musarisi. This templo wasbuilt by M. Fulvius Nobilior, the conquepir of theAetolians (Cic. p. Arch. 11), and rebuilt by L. Mar-cius Philippus, the step-father of Augustus, who alsosurrounded it with the portico. (Suet. Aug. 29.)The name of the temple does not signify, as Beckersupposes (llandb. p. 613), that it was dedicated toHercules ami the Muses, but to Hercules as leader ofthe Muses (Mooffo-yeTiji), the genitive, Musarum,depending on Hercules, as appears from coins ofthe Gens Pomponia, where he is represented inthat character, with the legend iieucvi.es misa-itVM,as well as from an inscription in (jruter (inlxx. 3 it