OCR Output 126 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 772. to his father's measures, had a portion of the realm;the rest was granted to the son of Cotys, then underage. During their minority, Trebellienus Rufus, ofpnetorian rank, undertook the government of thekingdom in trust for the heir of Cotys, according tothe precedent of former times, when the senate sentMarcus Lepidus to administer the affairs of Egypt inthe capacity of regent and guardian to the childrenof Ptolemy. Rhescuporis was conveyed to Alexan­dria; and there attempting to make his escape, orperhaps unjustly charged with that design, he wasseized and put to death. LXVIII. About the same time Vonones, who, ashas been mentioned, was detained in Cilicia, made alike attempt, but with no better success. Havingcorrupted the guards, he intended to push his wayinto Armenia, and thence to the Albanians and He-niochians, flattering himself that he should be able topenetrate into Scythia, and there obtain protectionfrom the reigning king, who was his near relation.With this intent he went on a hunting party; and*having watched his opportunity, betook himself toflight. Turning off from the sea-coast he struck intothe woods, and rode at full speed towards the riverPyramus. The inhabitants, on the first alarm, de­molished the bridges. The river was not fordable.Vonones was found wandering along the banks, andby order of Vibius Fronto, the commander of the ca­valry, loaded with fetters. He did not long survive.Remnius, a resumed veteran, had been entrustedwith the custody of his person. This man, in a sud­den transport of pretended passion, drew his swordand ran the unhappy prince through the body. Thesecret cause of this violent act cannot now be ascer­tained : the general opinion was, that the soldier hadbeen bribed to favour the king's escape, and, ratherthan be detected as an accomplice, choose to be anassassin. LXIX. Germanicus, on his return from Egypt,found all his regulations, in the civil as well as the mi­litary line, totally abolished, or changed to a systemdirectly contrary to his intentions. Hence % new