OCR Output wars or the jews. Book II. condemed. They also take great pains in studying the writingsof the ancients, and choose out of them what is most for theadvantage of their soul and body, and they enquire after suchroots and medicinal stones as may cure their distempers. 7. But now, if any one hath a mind to come over to theirsect, he is not immediately admitted, but he is prescribed thesame method of living which they use, for a year, while he con­tinues excluded, and they give him also a small hatchet, and theforementioned girdle, and the white garment. And when hehath given evidence, during that time, that he can observe theircontinence, he approaches nearer to their way of living, and ismade a partaker of the waters of purification; yet is he not evennow admitted to live with them; for after this demonstration ofhis fortitude, his temper is tried two more years, and if he ap­pear to be worthy, they then admit him into their society. Andbefore he is allowed to touch their common food, he is obligedto take tremendous oaths, that, in the first place, he will exercisepiety towards God, and then that he will observe justice towardsmen, and that he will do no harm to any one, either of his ownaccord, or by the command of others; that he will always hatethe wicked, and be assistant to tbe righteous; that he will evei.-shew fidelity to all men, and especially to those in authority ;because no one obtainsthe government without God's assistance;and that ifhebein authority, he will at no time whatever abusehis authority, nor endeavour to outshine his subjects, either inhis garments, or any other finery; that he will be perpetuallya lover of truth, and propose to himself to reprove those thattell lies; that he will keep his hands clear from theft, and hissoul from unlawful gains; and that he will neither conceal anything from those of his own sect, nor discover any of their doc­trines to others, no, not though any one should compel him so*to do at the hazard of his life. Moreover he swears to com­municate their doctrines to no one any otherwise than as he re­ceived them himself; that he will abstain from robbery, andwill equally preserve the books belonging to their sect, and thenames of the * angels [or messengers]. These are the oaths bywhich they secure their proselytes to themselves. 8. But » This mention of the nanus vf angds, so particularly preserved hir the Essens,(If it means more than those messengers which were employed' to bring them thepeculiar books of their sect), looks iilce a prelude to that -warsbiffing of angelsblamed by St Paul, as superstitious and unlawful, in some such, sort of people asthese Essetw were.Coloss. ii. 8. as is the prayer to, or towards the sun for hisrising every morning, mentioned before, § 5. very like those not much later obser­vances made mention of in the preaching of Peter, Authent. Rcc. Pt II. page 669.and regarding a kindfof worship of angels, of the month, and of the moon, and not.celebrating the new moons, or other festivals, unless the moon appeared. Which in-^deed seems to me the earliest mention of any regard to the moon's phasis-in fixingthe Jewish calendar, of which the Talmud and later Rabbins talk so much,andupon so very little ancient foundation.