OCR Output AUTi<vuitiES oF tnt JEW9. Book XIX that were at this consultation, had little regard to the punishmentCaius had suffered, because he justly deserved such his fortune ;but they were rather considering their own circumstances, howthey might take the best care of themselves, especially while theGermans were busy in punishing the murderers of Caius ; whichyet was rather done to gratify their own savage temper, thanfor the good bf the public : all which things disturbed Claudius,who was afraid of his own safety, and this particularly becausehe saw the heads of Asprenas and his partners carried about.His station had been on a certain elevated place, whither a fewsteps led him, and whither he had retired in the dark by himself.But when Gratus, who was one of the soldiers that belonged tothe palace, saw him, but did not well know by his countenancewho he was, because it was dark, though he could well judge thatit was a man who was privately there on some design, he camenearer to him, and when Claudius desired that he would retire,he discovered who he was, and owned him to be Claudius. Sohe said to his followers, " This is a Germanicus* ; come on, let" us chuse him for our emperor." But when Claudius saw theywere making preparations for taking him away by force, andwas afraid they would kill him, as they had killed Caius, he be­sought them to spare him, putting them in mind how quietly hehad demeaned himself, and that he was unacquainted with whathad been done. Hereupon Gratus smiled upon him, and tookhim by the right hand, and said, " Leave off, Sir, these low" thoughts of saving yourself, while you ought to have greater" thoughts, even of obtaining the empire, which the gods, out of" their concern for the habitable world, by taking Caius out of" the way, commit to thy virtuous conduct. Go to, therefore,*' and accept of the throne of thy ancestors." So they took himup and carried him, because he was not then able to go on foot,such was his dread and his joy at what was told him. 2. Now there was already gathered together about Gratus agreat number of the guards ; and when they saw Claudius car­ried off, they looked with a sad countenance, as supposing that hewas carried to execution for the mischiefs that had been latelydone ; while yet they thought him a man who never meddledwith public affairs all his life-long, and one that had met with nocontemptible dangers under the reign of Caius ; and some ofthem thought it reasonable, that the consuls should take cogni­zance of these matters ; and, as still more and more of the sol­diery * How Claudius, another son of Drusus, which Drusus was the father of Oct-manicus, could be here himself called Germanicus, Suetonius informs us, whenhe assures us, that, by a decree of the senate, the sirname of Germanicm w*sbestowed upon Drusus, and his posterity also.—In Claud, ch. i.