OCR Output Chap. XIX- WARS OF THE JEWS. 429 thither did they come, in order to set open the gates, and to ad­mit Cestius as their benefactor, who, had he but continued thesiege a little longer, had certainly taken the city ; but it was, Isuppose, owing to the * aversion God had already at the city,and the sanctuary, that he was hindered from putting an end tothe war that very day. 7. It then happened that Cestius was not conscious either howthe besieged despaired of success, nor how courageous the peo­ple were for him; and so he recalled his soldiers from the place,and by despairing of any expectation of taking it, without havingreceived any disgrace, he retired from the city, without anyreason in the world. But when the robbers perceived this un­expected retreat of his, they resumed their courage, and ran af­ter the hinder parts of his army, and destroyed a considerablenumber of both their horsemen and footmen; and now Cestiuslay all night at the camp which was at Scopus, and as he wentoff farther next'day, he thereby invited the enemy to follow him,who still fell upon the hindmost, and destroyed them; they alsofell upon the flank on each side of the army, and threw darts up­on them obliquely, nor durst those that were hindmost turn backupon those who wounded them behind, as imagining that themultitude of those that pursued them was immense ; nor didthey venture to drive away those that pressed uport them on eachside, because they were heavy with their arms, and were afraidof breaking their ranks to pieces, and because they saw theJews were light, and ready for making incursions upon them.And this was the reason why the Romans suffered greatly, with-»ut being able to revenge themselves upon their enemies ; sothey were galled all the way, and their ranks were put intodisorder, and those that were thus put out of their ranks wereslain ; among whom were Priscus, the commander of the sixthlegion, and Longinus the tribune, and Emilius Secundus, the commander * There may another very important, and very providential reason be hereassigned, for this strange and foolish retreat of Cestius; which, if Josephus had beennow a Christian, he might probably have taken notice of also; and that is, the af­fording the Jewish Christians in the city an opportunity of calling to mind the pre­diction and caution given them by Christ about thirty-three years and an half before,that " when they should see the abomination of desolation," [the idolatrous Roman npassed with armies," they iBy complying wifh which those Jewish Christians fled to the mountains of Perea,and escaped this destruction. See Lit. Accompl. of Proph' page 69, 70. Nor wa«there, perhaps, any one instance of a more unpolitic, but more providential con­duct than this retreat of Cestius visible during this whole siege of Jerusalem;which yet was providentia'^v such a " great tribulation, as had not been from the" beginning of the world to that time; no, nor ever should be." Ibid' page*7«, 71.