OCR Output 342 CINNA AND SULLA. [Book IV. natural that, after such an occurrence, the cities of new bur­gesses which had not yet passed over should continue theirresistance with the utmost obstinacy. In the Latin townKorba. of Norba for instance, when jEmilius Lepidus got into itby treason, the citizens killed each other and set fire them­selves to their town, solely in order to deprive their execu­tioners of vengeance and of booty. In Lower Italy Neapolishad already, been taken by assault, and Capua had, as itNola. would seem, been voluntarily surrendered; but Nola was 80. only evacuated by the Samnites in 674. On his flight fromNola the last surviving leader of note among the Italians, 90. the consul of the insurgents in the hopeful year 664, GainsPapius Mutilus, disowned by his wife to whom he hadstolen in disguise and with whom he had hoped to find anasylum, fell on his sword in Teanum before the door of hisown house. As to Samnium the dictator declared, thatRome would have no rest so long as Samnium existed, andthat the Samnite name ought therefore to be extirpatedfrom the earth; and, as he verified these words in terriblefashion on the prisoners taken before Rome and in Pravneste, so he appears to have also undertaken a raid for thepurpose of laying waste the country, to have captured 80. ^Esernia* (674?), and to have converted that hithertoflourishing and populous region into the desert which it hassince remained. In the same manner Tuder in Umbria wasstormed by Marcus Crassus. A longer resistance wasoffered in Etruria by Populonium and above all by theimpregnable Volaterrae, which gathered out of the remainsof the beaten party an army of four legions, and stood atwo years' siege conducted first by Sulla in person and thenby the former praetor Gaius Carbo, the brother of the demo­cratic consul, till at length in the third year after the battle 79. at the Colline gate (675) the garrison capitulated on con­dition of free departure. But in this terrible time neithermilitary law nor military discipline was regarded; thesoldiers raised a cry of treason and stoned their too com­pliant general; a troop of horse sent by the Roman govern­ment cut down the garrison as it withdrew in terms of thecapitulation. The victorious army was distributed through­out Italy, and all the insecure places were furnished withstrong garrisons: under the iron hand of the Sullan officers * Hardly any other name, probably, can be concealed under the corruptreading in Liv. 89 mtam in Samnio; comp. Strabo, v. 3, 10.