OCR Output DEDICATION. 2 given so much in detail, that we quite loathe them. It is, indeed,no easy task to give novelty to what is old, and authority to whatis new; brightness to what is become tarnished, and light to whatis obscure; to render what is slighted acceptable, and what isdoubtful worthy of our confidence; to give to all a naturalmanner, and to each its peculiar nature. It is sufficiently honour­able and glorious to have been willing even to make the attempt,although it should prove unavailing. And, indeed, I am of opinionthat the studies of those are more especially worthy of our regard,who, after having overcome all difficulties, prefer the useful officeof assisting others, to the mere gratification of giving pleasure;and this is what I have already done in some of my former works.I confess it surprises me, that T. Livius, so celebrated an authoras he is, in one of the books of his history of the city from itsorigin, should begin with this remark, " I have now obtained asufficient reputation, so that I might put an end to my work, didnot my restless mind require to be supported by employment."Certainly he ought to have composed this work, not for his ownglory, but for that of the Roman name, and of the people whowere the conquerors of all other nations. It would have beenmore meritorious to have persevered in his labours from his loveof the work, than from the gratification which it afforded himself,and to have accomplished it, not for his own sake, but for that ofthe Roman people. I have included in thirty-six u books 20,000 topics, all worthyof attention, (for, as Domitius Piso says, we ought to make notmerely books, but valuable collections) gained by the perusal ofabout 2,000 volumes, few only of which are in the hands of thestudious, on account of the obscurity of the subjects, procured bythe careful examination of 100 select authors; and to these Ihave made considerable additions of things, which were either notknown to my predecessors, or which have been lately discovered.Nor can I doubt but that there still remain many things which I, have omitted. For I am a mere mortal, and one that has many oc­cupations. I have been therefore obliged to compose this work atinterrupted intervals, indeed during the night, so that you willfind I have not been idle even during this period. The day I de­vote to you, exactly portioning out my sleep to the necessity of my 14 "Quem primum historic PlinianiE librum vocamus, nunc ipse nonnumerat:" note in Valpy, p. 181.