OCR Output 530 ROMAN EMPIRE. Cretans was stimulated by the frequent aid of their bre­thren of Africa and Spain; and, after the massy walland double ditch had been stormed by the Greeks, ahopeless conflict was still maintained in the streets andhouses of the city. The whole island was subdued inthe capital, and a submissive people accepted, withoutresistance, the baptism of the conqueror.1 Constanti­nople applauded the long-forgotten pomp of a triumph;but the imperial diadem was the sole reward that couldrepay the services, or satisfy the ambition, of Nicephorus.Theeastem After the death of the younger Romanus, theconquests fourth in lineal descent of the Basilian race, his of Nice- .' phorus, widow Theophania successively married Nice-andjohn phorus Phocas, and his assassin John Zimisces,zimene., fae two heroes of the age. They reigned as963—975. the guardians and colleagues of her infant sons;and the twelve years of their military command form themost splendid period of the Byzantine annals. Thesubjects and confederates, whom they led to war, ap­peared, at least in the eyes of an enemy, two hundredthousand strong; and of these about thirty thousandwere armed with cuirasses :y a train of four thousandmules attended their march; and then* evening campwas regularly fortified with an enclosure of iron spikes.A series of bloody and undecisive combats is nothingmore than an anticipation of what would have been ef­fected in a few years by the course of nature; but I shallbriefly prosecute the conquests of the two emperorsfrom the hills of Cappadocia to the desert of Bagdad.Conquest The sieges of Mopsuestia and Tarsus in CiliciaofCiiicia. first exercised the skill and perseverance of their x A Greek life of St. Nicon, the Armenian, was found in the Sforza library, andtranslated into Latin by the Jesuit Sirmond for the use of cardinal Baronius. Thiscontemporary legend casts a ray of light on Crete and Peloponnesus in the tenthcentury. He found the newly-recovered island, focdis detestandae Agarenorum »u-perstitionis vestigiis adhuc plenam ac refertam . . . but the victorious missionary,perhaps with some carnal aid, ad baptismum omnes veraque fidei disciplinam pe-pulit. Ecclesiis per tntam insulam asdificatis, &c. (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 961.) J l'.hiKirin, Ili;-i. Saracen, p. 278, 279. Liutprand was disposed to depreciate theGreek poa-er, yet he ownt that Nicephorus led against Assyria an army of righiythousand men.