OCR Output 464 [book XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. army, he removed from Ashdod, and cameto Ascalon. And when he had pitched hiscamp without the city, the people of Ascaloncame out and met him; bringing him hos­pitable presents, and honouring him: so heaccepted of their kind intentions, and re­turned thence to Jerusalem, with a great dealof prey; which he brought thence, when heconquered his enemies. But when Alexan­der heard, that Apollonius, the general ofhis army, was beaten, he pretended to beglad of it; because he had fought with Jona­than, his friend and ally, against his direc­tions. Accordingly he sent to Jonathan, andgave testimony to his worth; and gave himhonorary rewards, as a *goIden button; whichit is the custom to give the king's kinsmen,and allowed him Ekron, and its toparchy forhis own inheritance. About this time king Ptolemy, who wascalled Philometor, led an army, partly by thesea, and partly by land, and came to Syria,to the assistance of his son-in-law, Alexander.And accordingly, all the cities received himwillingly, as Alexander had commandedthem to do; and conducted him as far asAshdod; where they all made loud com­plaints about the temple of Dagon, whichwas burnt; and accused Jonathan of havinglaid it waste, and destroyed the country ad­joining with fire, and slain a great number ofthem. Ptolemy heard these accusations, butsaid nothing. Jonathan also went to meetPtolemy as far as Joppa; and obtained fromhim hospitable presents, and those gloriousin their kinds, with all the marks of honour.And when he had conducted him as far asthe river called Eleutherus, he returned againto Jerusalem.f But as Ptolemy was at Ptolemais, he wasvery near to a most unexpected destruction.For a treacherous design was laid for his lifeby Alexander, by the means of Ammonius,who was his friend. And as the treacherywas very plain, Ptolemy wrote to Alexander;and required of him that he should bringAmmonius to condign punishment; informing him what snares had been laid for him byAmmonius, and desiring that he might bepunished accordingly. But when Alexanderdid not comply with his demands, lie per­ceived that it was he himself who laid thedesign, and he was very angry at him.J Al­exander had also formerly been on very illterms with the people of Antioch; for theyhad suffered very much by his means. Yetdid Ammonius at length undergo the punish­ment his insolent crimes had deserved. Forhe was killed in an opprobrious manner, likea woman, while he endeavoured to concealhimself in a feminine habit. Hereupon Ptolemy blamed himself forhaving given his daughter in marriage toAlexander, and for the league he had madewith him to assist him against Demetrius.So he dissolved his relationship, by takinghis daughter away from him; and immedi­ately sent to Demetrius, and offered to makea league of mutual assistance and friendshipwith him, and agreed with him to give himhis daughter in marriage, and to restore himto the principality of his fathers. Demetriuswas well pleased with this ambassage, andaccepted of his assistance, and of the mar­riage of his daughter. But Ptolemy had stillone more hard task to do; and that was topersuade the people of Antioch to receiveDemetrius; because they were greatly dis­pleased at him, on account of the injuries hisfather Demetrius had done them. Yet didhe bring this about. For as the people ofAntioch hated Alexander, on Ammonius'saccount, as we have shewn already; theywere easily prevailed with to cast him out ofAntioch. He accordingly retired to Cilicia;while Ptolemy came to Antioch, and wasmade king by its inhabitants, and by thearmy. So that he was forced to put on twodiadems, the one of Asia, the other of Egypt.But being naturally a good and a righteousman, and not desirous of what belonged toothers; and besides these dispositions, beingalso a wise man in reasoning about futurities,he determined to avoid the envy of the Ro­ * Dr. Hudson observes here, that the Phoenicians andRomans used to reward such as had deserved well ofthem, by presenting to them a golden button. Thisgolden button or buckle, (which was worn upon theshoulder,) was a very singular mark of distinction bothamong the Greeks and the Persians, (from whom the Macedonians took it.) and was generally made the re­ward of great and gallant actions in war. Calmet't Com­mentary on 1 Mace. x. 89. B. t 1 Mace. xi. 7. % This is related very differently in our copies of thefirst book of Maccabees.