OCR Output 40 IMAUS. ILYATES. iv. G54.) Ilva was celebrated in ancient times, asit still is at the present day, for its iron mines;these were probably worked from a very early periodby the Tyrrhenians of the opposite coast, and werealready noticed by Hecatacus, who called the islandAidd\ij: indeed, its Greek name was generally re­garded as derived from the smoke (al#aA?j) of thenumerous furnaces employed in smelting the iron.(Diod. v. 13; Steph. Ii. *. v.) In the time of Strabo,however, the iron ore was no longer smelted in theisland itself, the want of fuel compelling the inha­bitants (as it does at the present day) to transportthe ore to the opposite mainland, where it wassmelted and wrought so as to be fitted for com­mercial purposes. The unfailing abundance of theore (alluded to by Virgil in the line "Insula inexhaustis Chalybum generosa metal lis") led to the notion that it grew again as fast as itwas extracted from the mines. It had also theadvantige of being extracted with great facility, asit is not sunk deep beneath the earth, but formsa hill or mountain mass of solid ore. (Strab. I. c;Diod. Lc.; Virg. A en. x. 174; Plin. iii. 6. s. 12,xxxiv. 14. s. 41; Pseud. Ari^t. de Mirab.95; Rutil.IUn. i. 351—356; Sil. Iul. viii. 616.) The mines,which are still extensively worked, are situated at aplace called Rio, near the E. coast of the island;they exhibit in many cases unequivocal evidence ofthe ancient workings. The only mention of Ilva that occurs in historyis in ii. c. 453, when we learn from Diodorus thatit was ravaged by a Syracusan fleet under Phayllus,in revenge for the piratical ex j ted it ions of the Tyr­rhenians. Phayllus having effected but little, asecond fleet was sent under Apclles, who is said tohave made himself master of the island; but itcertainly did not remain subject to Syracuse. (Diod.xi. 88.) The name is again incidentally mentionedby Livy (xxx. 39) during the expedition of theconsul Tib. Claudius to Corsica and Sardinia. Ilva has the advantage of several excellent ports,of which that on the N. side of the island, nowcalled Porto ferraio, was known in ancient timesas the Pokti.'s Anoous ('Apy&os Atui}v), from thecircumstance that the Argonauts were believed tohave touched there on their return. voyage, whilesailing in quest of Circe. (Strab. v. p. 224; Diod.iv. 56; Apollon. It hod. iv. 658.) Considerable ruinsof buildings of Koman date are visible at a placecalled Le Grotte, near Porto Ferrau), and othersare found near Capo Cashllo, at the XE. extremityof the island. The quarries of granite near S. Ptero,in the SW. part of Elba, appears also to have beenextensively worked by the Romans, though no noticeof them is found in any ancient writer; but nume­rous columns, basins for fountains, and other archi­tectural ornaments, still remain, either wholly or inpart hewn out of the adjacent quarry. (Hoare,Class. Tour, vol. i. pp. 23—29). [E. H. It. J ILVATES, a Ligurian trihe, whose name isfound only in Livy. He mentions them first astaking up .inns in B. c. 200, in concert with theGaulish tribes of the Insubres and Cenomani, to de­stroy the Roman colonies of Placentia and Cremona.They are again noticed three years later as beingstill in arms, after the submission of their Transpa-dane allies; but in the course of that years cam­paign (n.<\ 197) they were reduced by the consulQ. Minucius, and their name does not again appearin history. (Liv. xxx. 10, xxxi. 29, 30.) From the circumstances here related, it is clear that theydwelt on the N. slopes of the Apennines, towarjnthe plains of the Padus, and apparently not veryfar from Clastidium (Casteggio); but we cannot de­termine with certainty either the position or extent oftheir territory. Their name, like those of most of theLigurian tribes mentioned by Livy, had disappearedin the Augustan age, and is not found in any of thegeographers. [Liockia.J Walckenaer, however,supjioses the Elkates over whom the consul M.r'ulvius Nobilior celebrated a triumph in n. v. 159(Fast. Capit. op. Grutcr, p. 297). and who are inall probability the same [teople with the Veleiates ofPliny [Vm.kia], to be identical also with the 11-vatesofLivy; but this cannot be assumed withoutfurther proof. (Walckenaer, Gtogr. ihs Untiles,vol. i. p. 154.) [E. H. B.] IMACHARA ('Imxdpa or 'H^XW Ptol.: Elk.Iinac haren>is, Cic.; Iniacaren^is, Plin.), a city ofSicily, the name of which does not appear in history,but which is repeatedly mentioned by Cicero amongthe municipal towns of tho island. There is greatdiscrepancy in regard to the form of the name, whichis written in many MSS. " Macarensis " or " M.icha-reusis;"' and the same uncertainty is found in thoseof Pliny, who also notices the town am >ng those ofthe interior of Sicily. (Cic. IVrr. iii. 18, 42. v. 7:Zumpt, od l»c; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Siilig, ad he.)From the manner in which it is spoken of by Cicero,it would seem to have been a town of some con­sideration, with a territory fertile in com. Thatwriter associates it with Herbita, Assorus, Agyriuin,and other towns of the interior, in a maimer thatwould lead us to suppose it situated in the sameregion of Sicily; and this inference is confirmed byPtolemy, who places Hemichara or Himiehara (evi­dently the same place) in the NE. of Sicily, betweenCapitium and Centuripa. (Ptol. iii. 4. § 12.) HenceCluverios conjectures that it may have occupied thesite of Trai/ia, but this is wholly uncertain. Kazclk)and other Sicilian writers have supposed the ruins ofan ancient city, which are still visible on the coa&tabout 9 miles N. of Cape Pachynum, near the PortoVindicari, to be those of [inachara; but though thename of Macaresa, still borne by an adjoining head­land, gives some col >ur to this opinion, it is whollyopposed to the data furnished us by ancient authors,who all agree in placing Imachara in the interior ofthe island. The ruins in question, which indicatethe site of a considerable town, are regarded by Clo­ven us (but equally without authority) as tho&e ofIchana. (Cluver. Sicil. p. 356; Kazell. de Rtb.Sic.iv. 2, p. 217; Amico. A of. ad Fazell. pp.417, 447;Hoare's Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 301.) [E. II. 15.]IMATS. the great mountain chain, which, ac­cording to the ancients, divided Northern Asia into"Scythia intra Imaum" and ''Scythia extraImaum." Tin's word (to *\fxaov &post Strab. xv.p. 689: Ptol. vi. 13. § 1; t£i '\aalov vpos. >trah.ii. p. 129; & "luaos, Agathem. ii. 9: all lmughall the MSS. of Strabo (xi. p. 516) have lsanms('Iaa.uos) in the passage describing the expedi­tion of the Graeco-Bactrian king Menander, }'ctthere can be no doubt but that the text is corrupt,and the word I ma US should be substituted), cun-nected with the Sanscrit himavat, " snowy" (comp.Plin. vi. 17; B"hlen, das Atie Ittdtt n, vid. i. p. 11;Las>en, hid. Alt. vol. i. p. 17), is one of those mauysignificative expressions which have been used furmountain masses upon every zone of the earth's sur­face (for instance, Mont Blanc, in Savoy, Sierra