OCR Output ,356 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. -r£?i *L£aw«~%«£'jj£j3^sag fusing to admit his army into the city? Is iton account of the Egyptians, and in hopesthat his army would be beaten by them?Whereupon he lets him know, that if this bewhat he expects, he is a foolish man, andlike one who leans on a broken reed;* whilesuch a one will not only fall down, but willhave his hand pierced and hurt by it: forhe ought to know, he makes this expeditionagainst him by the will of God; who hathgranted this favour to him, that he shalloverthrow the kingdom of Israel; arid that inthe very same manner he shall destroy thosethat are his subjects also." When Rab-shakeh had made this speech in the Hebrewtongue, for he was skilful in that language,Eliakim was afraid lest the multitude thatheard him should be disturbed. So he de­sired him to speak in the Syrian tongue.But the general, understanding what hemeant, and perceiving the fear that he wasin, replied with a louder voice in the He­brew tongue; and said, "Since they all hearwhat are the king's commands, they willconsult their own advantage in delivering upthemselves to us: for it is plain that bothyou and your king dissuade the people fromsubmitting by vain hopes; and so inducethem to resist. But if you be courageous,and think to drive our forces away, I amready to deliver to you two thousand ofthese horses that are with me, for your use;if you can set as many horsemen on theirbacks, and shew their strength. But whatyou have not, you cannot produce. Whytherefore do you delay to deliver up your­selves to a superior force, who can take youwithout your consent? although it will besafer for you to deliver yourselves up volun­tarily; while a forcible capture, when youare beaten, must appear more dangerous,and will bring farther calamities upon you."fWhen the people, as well as the ambassa­dors, heard what the Assyrian commander L * The words in the text are,—Now behold thou trustestupon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt,2 Kings xviii. 21. The comparison is excellent, to de­note an ally that is not only weak and unable to help, butdangerous likewise to those that rely upon him for suc­cour; and his representing the power of Egypt to be asbrittle as the canes or reeds that grow on the banks of theNile, (for it is to this, no doubt, that the Assyrian oratoralludes,) is a great beauty in the similitude. This how­ever must be allowed, that what he here speaks in con- said, they related it to Hezekiah: who there­upon put off his royal apparel, and clothedhimself with sackcloth, and took the habitof a mourner; and, after the manner of hiscountry, he fell upon his face, and besoughtGod, and entreated him to assist them, nowthey had no other hope of relief. He alsosent some of his friends, and some of thepriests to the prophet Isaiah, desiring thathe would pray to God, and offer sacrificesfor their common deliverance; and so put upsupplications to him, that he would have in­dignation at the expectations of their enemies,and have mercy upon his people. And whenthe prophet had done accordingly, an oraclecame from God to him, and encouraged theking and his friends that were about him:and foretold, that their enemies should bebeaten without fighting, and should go awayin an ignominious manner; and not with thatinsolence which they had now shewn: forthat God would take care they should be de­stroyed. He also foretold that Sennacherib,the king of Assyria, should fail of his purposeagainst Egypt, and that when he came homehe should perish by the sword. About the same time also, the king of As­syria wrote an epistle to Hezekiah; in whichhe said, he was a foolish man, in supposingthat he should escape from being his servant;since he had already brought under many andgreat nations; and he threatened, that whenhe took him he would utterly destroy him, un­less he now opened the gates, and willinglyreceived his army into Jerusalem. When hehad read this epistle, he despised it; on ac­count of the trust that he had in God; but herolled up the epistle, and laid it up within thetemple. And as he made his farther prayersto God for the city, and for the preservationof all the people, the prophet Isaiah said, thatGod had heard his prayer; and that he shouldnot be besiegedJ at this time by the king ofAssyria; that for the future he might be se­ tempt of the Egyptian strength, has more of ostentationin it than truth; because the Assyrian army, havinglately made an attempt to subdue that kingdom, was nowreturned into Judea with disgrace. Patrick's, Le Clerc'i,and Calmet's Commentaries. B. t 2 Kings xviii. 19—35. J What Josephus says here, how Isaiah the prophetassured Hezekiah, that "At this time he should not bebesieged by the king of Assyria; that for the future hemight be secure of being not at all disturbed by him; and