OCR Output a*. 479] 399 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. same year. Now Esdras presented the sacredmoney to the treasurers, who were of the fa­mily of the priests, of silver six hundred andfifty talents; vessels of silver one hundred ta­lents; vessels of gold twenty talents; and ves­sels of brass, that was *more precious thangold, twelve talents by weight. For thesepresents had been made by the king, and hiscounsellors, and by all the Israelites thatstayed at Babylon. So when Esdras haddelivered these things to the priests, he gaveto God as the appointed sacrifices of wholeburnt-offerings; twelve bulls, on account ofthe common preservation of the people,ninety rams, seventy-two lambs, and twelvekids of the goats, for the remission of sins.He also delivered the king's epistle to theking's officers, and to the governors of Coole-syria and Phoenicia. And as they were undera necessity of doing what was enjoined byhim, they honoured our nation, and were as­sistant to them in all their necessities. Now these things were truly done underthe conduct of Esdras; and he succeeded inthem; because God esteemed him worthy ofthe success of his conduct, on account ofhis righteousness. But some time afterwardthere came some persons to him, and broughtan accusation against certain of the multitude,and of the priests and Levites, who had trans­gressed their settlement, and dissolved thelaws of their country, by marrying strangewives; and had brought the family of thepriests into confusion. These persons desir­ed him to support the laws; lest God shouldtake up a general anger against them all, andreduce them to a calamitous condition again.Hereupon he rent his garment immediately,out of his grief, and pulled the hair of his headand beard; and cast himself upon the ground:because this crime had reached the principalmen among the people, and considering thatif he should enjoin them to cast out theirwives, and the children they had by them, heshould not be hearkened to, he continued ly­ing upon the ground. However all the bettersort came running to him; who also them­selves wept, and partook of the grief he wasunder for what had been done. So Esdras rose up from the ground, and stretched out hishand towards heaven, and said, that he wa#ashamed to look towards it, because of thesins which the people had committed: whilethey had cast out of their memories what theirfathers had undergone on account of theirwickedness. And he besought God, whohad saved a seed and a remnant out of thecalamity and captivity they had been in, andhad restored them again to Jerusalem, andto their own land, and had obliged the kingsof Persia to have compassion on them, thathe would also forgive them the sins they hadnow committed: which, though they deserveddeath, yet was it agreeable to the mercy ofGod to remit the punishments due to them. After Esdras had said this, he left off' pray­ing; and when all those who came to himwith their wives and children were under la­mentation, one whose name was Jechonias,a principal man in Jerusalem, came to himand said, that they had sinned in marryingstrange wives; and he persuaded him to ad­jure them all, to cast those wives out, and thechildren born of them, and that those shouldbe punished who would not obey the law. SoEsdras hearkened to this advice, and madethe heads of the priests, and of the Levites,and of the Israelites, swear that they wouldput away those wives and children accordingto the advice of Jechonias. And when hehad received their oaths, he went in hasteout of the temple, into the chamber of Joha-nan, the son of Eliasib: and as he had hithertostated nothing at all, for grief; so he abodethere that day. And when proclamation wasmade, that all those of the captivity shouldgather themselves together to Jerusalem, andthat those that did not meet there in twoor three days,,should be banished from themultitude, and that their substance should beappropriated to the uses of the temple ac­cording to the sentence of the elders, thosethat were of the tribes of Judah and Benja­min came together in three days; viz. on thetwentieth day of the ninth month: which, ac­cording to the Hebrews, is called fTebeth,and according to the Macedonians, Apelleus.Now as they were sitting in the upper room tieth of Artaxerxes, as commonly supposed, but from thetwenty-fifth of Xerxes, is there proved at large, page78—91. * Dr. Hudson observes here, that this kind of brass or copper, or rather mixture of gold and brass or copper, wascalled Aurichalcum; and that this was of old esteemed themost precious of all metals.t Casleu.