OCR Output 314 LIVY. parts with great slaughter, the Gauls quickly turnedtheir backs, and fled to their camp in hurry and con足fusion. The cavalry pursued them; and the legions,coming up in a short time after, assaulted the camp,from whence there did not escape so many as sixthousand men. There were slain and taken abovethirty-five thousand, with eighty standards, and abovetwo hundred Gallic waggons laden with booty of allkinds. Hamilcar, the Carthaginian general, fell thatday, and three distinguished generals of the Gauls.The prisoners taken at Placentia, to the number oftwo thousand free men, were restored to the colony. 22. This was an important victory, and caused greatjoy at Rome. On receipt of the pretor's letter, a sup足plication for three days was decreed. In that battlethere fell of the Romans and allies two thousand, mostof them in the right brigade, against which, in the firstonset, the most violent efforts of the enemy had beendirected. Although the pretor had brought the waralmost to a conclusion, yet the consul, Cneius Aure-lius, having finished the business which required hisattendance at Rome, set out for Gaul, and receivedthe victorious army from the pretor. The other con足sul arriving in his province towards the end of autumn,passed the winter in the neighborhood of Apollonia.Caius Claudius, and the Roman triremes which hadbeen sent to Athens from the fleet that was laid up atCorcyra, as was mentioned above, arriving at Piraeus,greatly revived the hopes of their allies, who were be足ginning to give way to despair. Their arrival not onlyput a stop to the inroads by land, which used to bemade from Corinth through Megara, but so terrifiedthe pirates from Chalcis, who had been accustomed toinfest both the Athenian sea and coast, that they darednot venture round the promontory of Sunium, nor eventrust themselves out of the straits of the Euripus. Inaddition to these came three quadriremes from Rhodes,the Athenians having three open ships, which they hadequipped for the protection of their lands on the coast.While Claudius thought, that if he were able with his