OCR Output C. Vn.] THB ZEALOTS AT MASADA. 123 ancient kings, both as a repository for their effects in thehazards of war, and for the preservations of their bodies atthe same time. It was called Masada. Those that werecalled Sicarii had taken possession of it formerly; but at thistime they overran the neighboring countries, aiming only toprocure to themselves necessaries, for the fear they were thenin prevented their further ravages. But when once they wereinformed that the Roman army lay still, and that the Jewswere divided between sedition and tyranny, they boldlyundertook greater matters; and at the feast of unleavenedbread, which the Jews celebrate in memory of their deliver­ance from the Egyptian bondage, when they were sent backinto the country of their forefathers, they came down bynight, without being discovered by those that could have pre­vented them, and overran a certain small city called Engaddi.In which expedition they prevented those citizens that couldhave stopped them, before they could arm themselves, andfight them. They also dispersed them, and cast them out ofthe city: as for such as could not run away, being womenand children, they slew of them above seven hundred. After­ward, when they had carried every thing out of their houses,and had seized upon all the fruits that were in a flourishingcondition, they brought them into Masada. And, indeed,these men laid all the villages that were about the fortresswaste, and made the whole country desolate; while therecame to them every day from all parts not a few men, ascorrupt as themselves. At that time all the other regionsof Judea, that had hitherto been at rest, were in motion, bymeans of the robbers. Now as it is in a human body, if theprincipal part be inflamed, all the members are subject tothe same distemper, so by means of the sedition and disorderthat was in the metropolis had the wicked men that were inthe country opportunity to ravage the same. Accordingly,when every one of them had plundered their own villages,they then retired into the desert: yet were these men thatnow got together, and joined in the conspiracy by parties, too6mall for an army, and too many for a gang of thieves; and