OCR Output 202 ROMAN EMPIRE. try, and perhaps Europe, from the Mahometan yoke.The ambassadors of the pope were received by Charleswith decent reverence; but the greatness of his occu­pations, and the shortness of his life, prevented his in­terference in the affairs of Italy, except by a friendlyand ineffectual mediation. His son Pepin, the heir ofhis power and virtues, assumed the office of championof the Roman church; and the zeal of the French princeappears to have been prompted by the love of glory andreligion. But the danger was on the banks of the Ti­ber, the succour on those of the Seine; and our sym­pathy is cold to the relation of distant misery. Amidstthe tears of the city, Stephen III. embraced the gene­rous resolution of visiting in person the courts of Lom-bardy and France, to deprecate the injustice of hisenemy, or to excite the pity and indignation of hisfriend. After soothing the public despair by litaniesand orations, he undertook this laborious journey withthe ambassadors of the French monarch and the Greekemperor. The king of the Lombards was inexorable;but his threats could not silence the complaints, nor re­tard the speed, of the Roman pontiff, who traversed thePennine Alps, reposed in the abbey of St. Maurice,and hastened to grasp the right hand of his protector,a hand which was never lifted in vain, either in war orfriendship. Stephen was entertained as the visible suc­cessor of the apostle; at the next assembly, the field ofMarch or of May, his injuries were exposed to a devoutand warlike nation, and he repassed the Alps, not as asuppliant, but as a conqueror, at the head of a Frencharmy, which was led by the king in person. TheLombards, after a weak resistance, obtained an ignomi­nious peace, and swore to restore the possessions, andto respect the sanctity, of the Roman church. But nosooner was Astolphus delivered from the presence ofthe French arms, than he forgot his promise and re­sented his disgrace. Rome was again encompassed byhis arms; and Stephen, apprehensive of fatiguing the