OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 219 charge; but soon after greater numbers pouring out,and their whole force of cavalry joining in the conflict,they could no longer be resisted. Yet Masinissa didnot betake himself to a hasty flight, but retired lei足surely, until he drew them on to the hills which con足cealed the Roman cavalry. These immediately risingup, their strength unimpaired, and their horses fresh,spread themselves round Hanno and the Africans, whowere fatigued in the pursuit; and Masinissa, suddenlywheeling about, returned to the charge. About onethousand, who composed the first division, and whocould not easily retreat, were, together with Hannothe commander, surrounded and slain; the rest, terri足fied principally by the death of their general, fled inconfusion, and were pursued for thirty miles by theconquerors, who took or slew two thousand more ofthe cavalry. It appeared that there were among the9enot less than two hundred Carthaginian horsemen,several of them of the richest and most distinguishedfamilies. 35. It happened that the same day on which thisbattle was fought the ships which had carried thebooty to Sicily, returned with stores, as if they hadforeseen that they were to bear away another cargo asbefore. All writers do not mention two generals ofthe Carthaginians of the same name being slain in twobattles of the cavalry; apprehending, I suppose, thatthere was a mistake, occasioned by the same fact beingrelated twice. Nay, Coelius and Valerius even assertthat Hanno was taken prisoner. Scipio made presentsto the officers and horsemen, according to the behaviorof each; and, above all, he paid extraordinary honorsto Masinissa. Having placed a strong garrison inSalera, he set out with the rest of the army; and notonly laid waste the country wherever he marched, butalso took some cities and towns, and thereby widelydiffused the terror of his arms. Scipio returned tothe camp on the seventh day after he had left it, bring足ing with him a great number of men and cattle, and avast quantity of plunder. He then dismissed the