OCR Output 114 LIVV. consul Caius Junius, but by which of them is uncertain.Those who attribute to the consul the honor of takingNola add, that he also took Antina and Calatia, andthat Petilius was created dictator in consequence of apestilence breaking out, merely for the purpose ofdriving the nail. The colonies of Suessa and Pontiewere established in this year. Suessa had been theproperty of the Auruncians: the Volscians had occu­pied Pontics, an island lying within sight of their shore.A decree of the senate was also passed for conductingcolonies to Interamna and Cassinum. [A. U. C. 442.B. C. 310.] But the commissioners were appointed,and the colonists, to the number of four thousand, sentby the succeeding consuls, Marcus Valerius and Pub-lius Decius. 29. The Samnites were now nearly disabled fromcontinuing the war; but, before the Roman senate wasfreed from all concern on that side, a report arose ofthe Etrurians intending to commence hostilities; andthere was not in those times any nation, excepting theGauls, whose arms were more dreaded, by reason bothof the vicinity of their country, and of the multitudeof their men. While therefore one of the consuls pro­secuted the remains of the war in Samnium, PubliusDecius, who, being attacked by a severe illness, re­mained at Rome, by direction of the senate, nominatedCains Junius Bubulcus dictator. He, as the magni­tude of the affair demanded, compelled all the youngercitizens to enlist, and with the utmost diligence pre­pared all requisite matters. Yet he was not so elatedby the power he had collected, as to think of com­mencing offensive operations, but prudently determinedto remain quiet, unless the Etrurians should becomeaggressors. The plans of the Etrurians were exactlysimilar with respect to preparing for, and abstainingfrom, war: neither party went beyond their own fron­tiers. The censorship of Appius Claudius and CaiusPlautius for this year was remarkable ; but the nameof Appius has been handed down with more celebrityto posterity on account of his having made the road