OCR Output Chap. IV.] THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 155 towards the ridge of hills, with a view to dislodge the enemyfrom the latter. But this march in the plain threatened tobecome the destruction of the army; for, while Numidian in­fantry occupied the mountain defiles in the rear of theRomans as the latter evacuated them, the Roman attackingcolumn found itself assailed on all sides by swarms of theenemy's horse, who charged down on it from the ridge. Theconstant onset of the hostile swarms hindered the advance,and the battle threatened to resolve itself into a number ofconfused and detached conflicts; while at the same timeBomilcar with his division detained the corps under Rufusto prevent it from hastening to the help of the hard-pressedmain army. Nevertheless Metellus and Marius with acouple of thousand soldiers succeeded in reaching the foot ofthe ridge; and the Numidian infantry which defended theheights, in spite of their superior numbers and favourableposition, fled almost without resistance when the legion­aries charged at a rapid pace up the hill. The Numidianinfantry held its ground equally ill against Rufus; it was • scattered at the first charge, and the elephants were allkilled or captured on the broken ground. Late in the even­ing the two Roman divisions, each victorious on its own partand each anxious as to the fate of the other, met betweenthe two fields of battle. It was a battle attesting alikeJugurtha's uncommon military talent and the indestructiblesolidity of the Roman infantry, which alone had convertedtheir strategical defeat into a victory. Jugurtha sent home agreat part of his troops after the battle, and restricted himselfto a guerilla warfare, which he likewise managed with skill. The two Roman columns, the one led by Metellus, the Numidiaother by Marius—who, although by birth and rank the occupied byhumblest, occupied since the battle on the Muthul the first &e Romans-place among the chiefs of the staff—traversed the Numidianterritory, occupied the towns, and, when any place did notreadily open its gates, put to death the adult male popula­tion. But the most considerable of the towns in the valleyof the Bagradas, Zama, opposed to the Romans a seriousresistance which the king energetically supported. He waseven successful in surprising the Roman camp; and theRomans found themselves at last compelled to abandon thesiege and to go into winter quarters. For the sake of moreeasily provisioning his army Metellus, leaving behind gar­risons in the conquered towns, transferred it into the Roman