OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3*7 continued a respectable member of the senate; nor was there anyone of the Roman nobility more esteemed by Aurelian, as well asby his successors **. So long and so various was the pomp of Aurelian's triumph, that His magni-although it opened with the dawn of day, the flow majesty of the devotion,procession ascended not the capitol before the ninth hour; and itwas already dark when the emperor returned to the palace. Thefestival was protracted by theatrical representations, the games ofthe circus, the hunting of wild beasts, combats of gladiators, andnaval engagements. Liberal donatives were distributed to the armyand people, and several institutions, agreeable or beneficial to thecapital, contributed to perpetuate the glory of Aurelian. A con­siderable portion of his oriental spoils was consecrated to the godsof Rome; the capitol, and every other temple, glittered with theofferings of his ostentatious piety; and the temple of the Sun alonereceived above fifteen thousand pounds of gold 8s. This last was amagnificent structure, erected by the emperor on the side of theQuirinal hill, and dedicated, soon after the triumph, to that deitywhom Aurelian adored as the parent of his life and fortunes. Hismother had been an inferior priestess in a chapel of the Sun; apeculiar devotion to the god of Light, was a sentiment which thefortunate peasant imbibed in his infancy; and every step of his ele­vation, every victory of his reign, fortified superstition by gra­titude 86. The arms of Aurelian had vanquistied the foreign and domestic He suppresses 1 °< a sedition a foes of the Republic. We are assured, that, by his salutary rigour, Rome,crimes and factions, mischievous arts and pernicious connivance,the luxuriant growth of a feeble and oppressive government, wereeradicated throughout the Roman world 8?. But if we attentively re­flect how much swifter is the progress of corruption than its cure,and if we remember that the years abandoned to public disordersexceeded the months allotted to the martial reign of Aurelian, we 6 must