OCR Output AW. 255 1064.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. When the ambassadors came to David, hewent to Jerusalem: and the tribe of Judahwas the first that came to meet him at theriver Jordan,* and Shimei, the son of Gera,came with a thousand men, which he broughtwith him out of the tribe of Benjamin; andZiba, the freed man of Saul, with his sons,fifteen in number; and with his twenty ser­vants. All these, as well as the tribe of Ju­dah, laid a bridge of boats over the river,that the king and those that were with him,might with ease pass over it. Now as soon ashe was come to Jordan, the tribe of Judahsaluted him. Shimei also came upon thebridge, and took hold of his feet, and prayedhim to forgive him what he had offended, andnot to be too bitter against him; nor to thinkfit to make him the first example of severityunder his new authority; but to considerthat he had repented of his failure of duty,and had taken care to come first of all to him.While he was thus intreating the king, andmoving him to compassion, Abishai, Joab'sbrother, said, "Shall not this man die forthat he hath cursed the king whom Godhath appointed to reign over us?" ButDavid turned himself, and said, "Will yenever leave off^ ye sons of Zeruiah? Donot, 1 pray, raise new troubles and sedi­tions among us, now the former are over;for I would not have you ignorant, that I thisday begin my reign; and therefore swear toremit to all offenders their punishments, andnot to animadvert on any one that has sin­ned. Be thou, therefore, O Shimei, of goodcourage; and do not at all fear being put todeath."f So he worshipped him, and wenton before him. Mephibosheth also, Saul's grandson, metDavid, clothed in a mean garment,}: andhaving his hair thick and neglected; for after David was fled away, he was in such grief,that he had not polled his head, nor had hewashed his clothes; as dooming himself toundergo such hardships upon occasion of thechange of the king's affairs. Now he hadbeen unjustly calumniated to the king byZiba, his steward. When he had salutedthe king, and worshipped him, the kingbegan to ask him, why he did not go out ofJerusalem with him, and accompany himduring his flight? He replied, that thispiece of injustice was owing to Ziba, be­cause when he was ordered to get thingsready for his going out with him, he took nocare of it: but regarded him no more than ifhe had been a slave. "And indeed," saidhe, "had I had my feet sound and strong, Ihad not deserted thee; for I could then havemade use of them in my flight. But this isnot all the injury that Ziba has done me, asto my duty to thee, my lord and master; buthe hath calumniated me besides, and toldlies about me of his own invention. ButI know thy mind will not admit of suchcalumnies, but is righteously disposed, anda lover of truth; which it is also the will ofGod should prevail. For when thou wast inthe greatest danger of suffering by my grand­father; and when, on that account, our wholefamily might justly have been destroyed, thouwast moderate and merciful, and didst thenespecially forget all those injuries; when, ifthou hadst remembered them, thou hadst thepower of punishing us for them. But thouhast judged me to be thy friend; and hastset me every day at thine own table; norhave I wanted any thing which one of thineown kinsmen, of greatest esteem with thee,could have expected." When he had saidthis, David resolved neither Jjto punish Me­phibosheth, nor to condemn Ziba, as having * 2 Sam. xix. 15. t 2 Sam. xix. 23. J The words in the text are, that He had neither dressedhis feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes,from the day that the king departed, 2 Sam. xix. 24.These were some of the instances wherein the Jews werewont to express their mourning; and they are here men­tioned by the historian, as evidence of the falsehood ofZiba's information against his master, since no one, whonesdected himself to this degree, could be supposed am­bitious of a crown. Not dressing his feet, may signify,either not cutting his toe-nails, or his not washing hisfeet, which the Jews were accustomed very frequently todo, because of the bad smell which was natural to them, as well as the Arabians, and some other nations; andtherefore his omission of this could not but make himoffensive to himself. Not trimming his beard was lettingits hair grow negligently, and without any order. Forthe manner of the Jews was, to cut the hair from the lipupwards, and what grew likewise on the cheek; but whatwas on the chin, and so backwards to the ear, that theysuffered to grow; and not washing his clothes must denotehis putting on no clean linen, but wearing the same shirtall the while. Calmef s and Patrick's Commentaries. B. II By David's disposal of half Mephibosheth's estate toZiba, one would imagine that he was still dissatisfied anddoubtful whether Mephibosheth's story were entirelytrue. Nor does David now invite him to diet with him,