OCR Output 814 ROMA,ROMA. temple of Vesta, may have been that of Hercules,ami the little temple near it, nw the church of S.Maria Egiztaca, that of Fudicitia I'atricia. {/IiiiidO.p. 478, esq.) This question is, however, in some degree con­nected with another respecting the sites of the Tkm-vi.ks ok I'oiiTLNA and Mati:i: jMauta. Caninaidentities the remains of the round temple at tl.echurch of S. Maria del Sole with the temple ofMater Matuta; whilst the little neighbouring temple,n*>w the church of S. Maria Eguaaca, lie holds tohave been that of Foiotxa Vikims. His chief rea­son for maintaining the latter opinion is the followingpassage of Dionysius, which points, lie thinks, to atemple of Fortune Virilis, built by Serviua TulUusclose to the banks of the Tiber, a position whichwould answer to that of S. Maria Egiziaca: xtdvaovs tvo KaTaiKtvavdntvos Tox7/s. rov pev eVayopa tt) Ka\ouu.€i'T} Boapm, top 5' trtpov tirtreus 7\C6(Ti tov Ti€(ptos, 'AvSptlav TrpocnjyO'ptvatv, &s Kat vvv virb rdv 'PwmoiW KaAeirat.{Ant. Horn. iv. 27.) It should be premised thatCanina does not bold the two temples in question tohave been in the Forum Boarium, but only just atits borders. ('* Corrispondevano da viciiio al FanBoario," Indicaz. p. 338.) The temple of Fort unaV'irihs here mentioned by Dionysius was, he con­tends, a distinct thing from the temple of ForsFortuna, which he allows lay outside of tlie city onthe other bank of the Tiber (p. 506). Indeed thedistinction between them is shown from the circum­stance that their festivals were celebrated in differentmonths \ that of Fortuna Virilis being in April,that of Fors Fortuna in June. (Coinp. Ov. Fast*iv. 145, seq., with the Fasti Praenestmi in April:u Frequenter mulieres supplicant . . . Fortunae VirilibumiHores." Also oomp. Ov. Fart. vi. 773, seq., withthe Fatti Amitcniini, 17//. Kal. Jul.; " Forti For­tunae Trans tiber. ad MHliar. Prim, et Sext.") Now these pas-ages very clearly show the distinc­tion between Fortuna Yirilis and Fors Fortuna; andit may be shown just as clearly that Dionysiusconfounded them, as Plutarch has also done. {DeFort. Rom. 5.) Servius TulUus, as Dionysius says,built a temple of Fortuna in the Forum Boarium;hut this Fortuna was not distinguished by any par­ticular epithet. Dionysius gives her none in thepassage cited; nor does any ap]>ear in passages ijfother authors in which her temple is mentioned.Thus Livy: "De manubiis duos fomicee in foroBoariu ante Fortunae nedem et Matris Matutae,unum in Maximo Circo fecit" (xxxiii. 27). So alsoin the passages in which he describes the fire inthat district (xxhr. 47, xxv. 7). One of the twotemples of Fortuna built by Serrius TulUus wasthen that on the Forum Boarium, as shown in thepreceding passages from Livy and from Dionysius:that the other was a temple of Fors Fortuna andnot of Fortuna Virilis appears from Varro: "DiesFortis Fortunae appeUatus ab Servio Tullio Rege,quod is fanum Fortis Fortunae secundum Tiberimextra Urbetn Romam dedieuvit Junio smwss" {L.L.vi. § 17, Mill.) Heme it is plain that both Diony­sius and Plutarch have made a mistake whichforeigners were likely enough to fall into. Templesbeing generally named in the genitive case, theyhave taken fortis to be an adjective equivalent toavtipuos or virilis (v. linnsen, Beschr. iii. Nachtr.p. C65; Becker, Bandb. p. 478, note 99S), andthus confounded two different temples. But asthis temple of Fors Fortuna was "extra Vrbem/'it could not have been the same as that v4 *Canina indentifies it, which, as Livy exfrasr; i was "intra portam Cannentalem * (xxt. ~\site of the temple of Fortuna Vinla cttstldetermined, and Bunsen {L c.) denies tint Iwas any such temple: but it seem* pneabie fthe passage of Ovid referred to above that tsatlwas one, or at all event* an altar; sod Pis(<ltmest. Rom. 74) mentions a T»xvUpuv. On the other hand, there wen w 1been no fewer than three temple* of Fors Faon the right bank of the Tiber. Firs:, La* Iby Serrius Tullius, described by Varro w'Urbcin secundum Tiberim." Second, irutiurtclose to that of Serviua by the consul Se>(Uns Maximus (b. C. 293): "l>e rel^uo saiFortis Fortunae de in&nubiis facitsoinprope aedem ejus Deae ab rege Ser. lsflcatam." (Liv. x. 46.) Third, angler |"under Tiberius (a. D. 16) ne^r the Til*gardens of Caesar, and hence, of coone, )riglit bank of the rivet: "Aedis F«rti»r'«'1 iberim juxta, in hortis quo* Caesar c.cpulo Romano legaver.it." (Tac. A»u u. 41.)the llorti Caesuris were on the right bast |Tiber we know from Horace (5. i. y. IS) Itarch. (Brut. 20.) The temple btult if 1must also have been on the right bank, as it Ibe referred to in the following passage of 1"Fors Fortuna est cujns diem fesrom <sine arte aliqua vivnnt: hujua aedea iest'' {ad Terent. Phorm, v. 6. 1). The*may be inferred from the Fcuti AmittiFortunae Transtiber. ad Milliar. Prim, et 1( MIL Kal Jul). The temple in tfaefCaesar seems here to be alluded totance of one mile from the city,Serrius, and the neighbouring onevilius appear to have been at a distance «fsj| But this need not excite our susjjeion.other instances of temples ljinj: al a idistance from Rome, as thai of Fortuna]the fourth milestone on Uie Viap. 542; cf. Val. Max. i. 8. § 4, S. tlal&c.) It w ould appear, too. to have beea idown the river, as it was customary to iin boats, and to employ the time ut ihsldrinking {Fast. vi. 777) : — "Pars pede. pars ctiam celeri decunri!e<Xec pudeat potos inde redire «Ferte coronatae juvenum cutmTia 1Multaque per mediae vina Uibaulars We have entered at more lengththan its importance may perhaps, sosaibecause the elegant remains of theforming the Armenian church of S. Mmcannot fail to attract the notice1 of every Iclassical antiquity that visits Rome. Wehave shown that it could not po&aiblv 1temple of Fortuna Virilis, a* a&sunxdand others. The assumption that the Iround temple was that of Muter Mattxtaibe considered as disposed of at the aonly grounds for that aasuinptsoovicinity to the supposed teinp4c of FaLivy's description (xxxiii. 27) of the Iarches erected in the Koiam Boa nam 1temples appearing to indicate that the*]together. With regard to the probability of this J