OCR Output 896 ." TITUS LIVICS' BOOK III, .CHAP. LXIV. Aoo elections. Candour of Duilius. J. HIS victory of the people, and their tribunes, hadalmost been productive or very serious consequences,owing to a combination amongst the latter, to get them­selves re-elected for the ensuing year, and to keep theirambition in countenance, to continue the same consuls inoffice for another year. In support of this scheme, theypretended, that the senate had engaged in a plot, out ofpique to the consuls, to destroy the rights of the people."For what would be the consequence, should the con-"suls, before the laws were firmly established, by their"factions, make an aitempt on the new tribunes! For,"they were not always to have consuls of the same dis-"position with Valerius and Horatius, who preferred"the liberty of the people to their own emolument." It happened fortunately to fall to Duilius' lot, to pre­side at that election. He was a man of sense, who, fore­seeing the mischievous consequences that the proposedcontinuation would produce, declared openly that hewould make no account of votes in favour of any of hiscolleagues. He was warmly opposed, his colleaguescontending, that he ought either to leave the assemblyfree, or give up his presidentship to one of the college,who would make the law, and not the pleasure of thesenators his rule. He begged of the consuls, to favourhim with their presence at his tribunal; and asked them,what they intended to do at the next Comitia for elect­ing consuls? Their answer was, that they would createnew ones. The president, fmding that these magistrates,popular in other respects, but no friends to this scheme,advanced with them into the assembly, and introducingthem to the people, then begged they would declare,what they would do, if the Roman people, from a prin­ciple of gratitude, for the generous part they had actedin recovering the public liberty, and mindful of theirother services, both at home and abroad, should re-elect- them to the consulship. They expressed the same in­tention as before. Duilius then praised them highly for