OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK IX. 131 rius dictator. When the deputies returned him thanksfor so very meritoriously subduing bis passion, be stillpersevered in obstinate silence, and dismissed themwithout any answer, or mention of what he had done ;a proof that he felt an extraordinary degree of resent­ment, which it cost him a violent struggle to suppress.Papirius appointed Caius Junius Bubulcus master ofthe horse; and, as he was proceeding in an assemblyof the curiae,1 to get an order passed respecting thecommand of the army, an unlucky omen obliged himto adjourn it; for the curia which was to vote firsthappened to be the Faucian, remarkably distinguishedby two disasters, the taking of the city, and the Cau-dine peace ; the same curia having voted first in thoseyears in which the said events are found. LiciniusMacer supposes this curia ominous also, on account ofa third misfortune, that which was experienced at theCremera. 39. Next day the dictator, taking the auspices anew,obtained the order;° and, marching out at the head ofthe legions lately raised on the alarm occasioned bythe army passing the Ciminian forest, came to Lon-gula; where, having received the troops of the consulMarcius, he led on his forces to battle; nor did theenemy seem to decline the combat. However, theystood under arms until night came on, neither sidechoosing to begin the fray. After this they continueda considerable time encamped near each other, withoutcoming to action, neither diffident of their own strengthnor despising the adversary. Meanwhile the army inEtruria was fully employed ; for a decisive battle wasfought with the Umbrians, in which the enemy wasrouted, but lost not many men ; for they did not main­tain the fight with the vigor with which they began it. 1 The comitia curiata, or assemblies of the curiae, alone hadthe power of conferring military command; no magistratetherefore could assume the command without the previousorder of their assembly. In time, this came to be a merematter of form; yet the practice always continued to be ob­served.