OCR Output Chap. I. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. 121 And now Gaius was in a doubt whether he should tarry to theend of the shews, because it was the last day, or whether heshould not go first to the bath, and to dinner, and then returnand sit down as before. Hereupon Minucianus, who sat overCaius, and was afraid that the opportunity should fail them, gotup, because he saw Cherea was already gone out, and madehaste out, to confirm him in his resolution ; but Gaius took holdof his garment, in an obliging way, and said to him, " O braveK man ! whither art thou going ?" Whereupon, out of-reverenceto Caesar, as it seemed, he sat down again 5 but his fear prevail­ed over him, and in a little time he got up again, and thenCaius did no way oppose his going out, as thinking that he wentout to perform some necessities of nature. And Asprenas, whowas one of the confederates, persuaded Caius to go out to thebath, and to dinner, and then to come in again, as desirous thatwhat had been resolved on misrht be brought to a conclusion im- O O ,* mediately. 14. So Cherea's associates placed themselves in order, as thetime would permit them, and they were obliged to labour hard,that the place which was appointed them should not be left bythem ; but they had an indignation at the tediousness of the de­lays, and that what they were about should be put off any longer,for it was already about the ninth * hour of the day ; andCherea, upon Caius's tarrying so long, had a great mind to goin, and fall upon him in his seat, although he foresaw that thiscould not be done without much bloodshed, both of the senators,and of those of the equestrian order that were present ; and al­though he knew this must happen, yet had he a great mind todo so, as thinking it a right thing to procure security and free­dom to all, at the expence of such as might perish at the sametime. And as they were just going back into the entrance tothe theatre, word was brought them that Caius was arisen,whereby a tumult was made ; hereupon' the conspirators thrustaway the crowd, under pretence as if Caius was angry at them,but in reality as desirous to have a quiet place, that should havenone in it to defend him, while they set about Caius's slaughter.Now Claudius, his uncle, was gone out before, and Marcus Vi-nitius, his sister's husband, as also Valerius of Asia ; whomthough they had such a mind to put out of their places, the re­verence to their dignity hindered them so to do ; then followedCaius, with Paulus Arruntius : and because Caius was now got­ten within the palace, he left the direct road, along which thosehis servants stood that were in waiting, and by which road Clau- VOL. III. £ " dius « Suetonius says Caius was slain about the seventh hour of the d»y, Josephusatom the ninth. The series of the narration favours Josephus.