OCR Output K05IA. 837 ROMA. imy corrupt passage in Pliny (xxxvi. 24. s. 1),pgnpiim hare related that the temple was dc-ci:nl to Jupiter Ultur; but this is altogether in-.i»»ifnt with other accouDts of its destination;ed it appears from an emendation of Jan, derivedno the Codex Bambergensis, that we should readVAfcru (or Jam VUori (Becker, Uandb. p.3j). Dim Cassias states that it received the namo of Pantheon because it contained the images of manygods (liii. 27), which, however, seem to have beenthose of the deities mythically connected with theJulian race, and among them that of Caesar himself.The temple is circular, and its magnificent porticowith triple row of columns, thongh perhaps not quitein harmony with the main building, cannot fail toexcite the admiration of the beholder. It owes its of AcmrrA. "dent state of preservation partly to the solidity Ira autrnction, partly to its having been conse- I!»d u a Christian church as early as the reignP!"-u. under the title of 5. if aria ad Martyret,Uia Rutmda. To the lover of the fine arts itinteresting from containing the tomb oftarL Some architects have thought that it wasvrioally intended for a temple, but as part of•aths; a notion, however, that is refuted by•aw in ancient writers, where it is styleda»» (Pun. xxxvi. 5. s. 38; Macrob. Sat. ii. 13). ■ IHatbeijn stood in the centre of the Campusfes*, taking that name in its widest sense. Thettiui of which only a few unim; urtatit remains■. Kl/ined it on the. S., and must have extended•fine Hecatostylon. The Dirimtorktm was a'Saiding destined, according to Becker {Uandb.K\ to the examination of the voting tablets1 s> the comjtia, in order to determine the resultttVca, and must therefore have been situatedtvtrpta. It seems to have been left unfinished{ttppa't death, and was dedicated by Augustus, ". Its vast unsupported roof was one of the-t> of Home, and, when destroyed in the fire of». o«ld not be replaced. (Dion Cass. Iv. 8; ■ ni 40.) In hot weather Caligula some-• named it into a theatre (Dion Cass. lix. 7).P*tico which Agrippa erected in the Campus sppears to have been called Porticus■o»*cTA«o>t, from its being adorned with a V the Argonauts, and was erected in com-mlian of Agrippa's naval victories (Dion Cass.C; Mart, iii. 20. 11). Becker {Uandb. p. 637)■tii that this was the same building calledhra Xeptuni by Spartian {Uadr. 19). and'Hum by Dion Cassias (lxvi. 24). But a a not equivalent to a portico, nor can wepm that Dion would have used the term FIo-•w ct a o-red; whence it seems more probable,ntraed by Canina {Indie, p. 406) and otherPaphm, that Agrippa also erected a TempleflTm, which.was connected with, or probablyAitsd by the portico. Nardini and Canina—•tier bora recent researches— are of opinion that the eleven columns now existing in the front of theDogana di Terra in the Piazza di Pietra, near theAntonine column, belonged to this temple. Of aPortkts Melkagri mentioned in the Noliiia inconnection with that of the Argonautarum, we knownothing further. Augustus also erected a few monuments on theCampus Martins. Among them was the SolariumAugusti, an obelisk which now stands on MonteCitorio, w hich served as a gigantic gnomon, and,on animmense marble flooring that surrounded it,exhibitednot only the hours, but also the increase and de­crease of the days (Plin. xxxvi. 15). In the north­ern part of the Campus, between the Via Klaminiaand the Tiber, he caused to be constructed duringhis life-time that superb Mausoleum, a descriptionof which by Strabo has already been cited in theformer part of this article. This district had forsome time previously served as a burying place forthe most distinguished persons. Among othersburied near this spot were Sulla, Caesar togetherwith his aunt and daughter, and the two consulsHirtius and Pansa, who fell at Mutina. Severalmembers of the family of Augustus had beenentombed in the mausoleum before the ashes ofAugustus himself were deposited within it; asMarcellus, Agrippa, Octavia, and Drusus (DionCass. liii. 30; Virg. A en. vi. 873, seq.; Ov. Cons,ad Lir. 67). By the time of Hadrian it was com­pletely filled; which caused him to build a new oneon the opposite side of the river (Dion Cats. Ixix. 23).There are still considerable remains of the monumentof Augustus. The area on which the sepulchre of theCaesars stood is now converted into a sort of amphi­theatre for spectacles of the lowest description: sictransit gloria mundi. It is doubtful whether a thirdbuilding of Augustus called Porticus AD Nati-oxes, or xiv. Natioxks, stood in tho CampusMartins or in the Circus Flaminius. It appears tohave been near the theatre of Pompey, and containedstatues representing different nations (Plin. xxxvi.5. s. 4 j Scrv. ad Aen. viii. 721.) Near the Mausoleum appears to have been a por­tico called Via Tecta, the origin of which is un­ 3 it 3