OCR Output C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 51 the Romans ? Is it death ? If so, what we are afraid ofwhen we but suspect our enemies will inflict it on us, shallwe inflict it on ourselves for certain ? But, it may be said,we must be slaves. And are we then in a clear state ofliberty at present ? It may also be said, that it is a manlyact for one to kill himself. No, certainly, but a most unmanlyone; as I should esteem that pilot to be an arrant coward,who, out of fear of a storm, should sink his ship of his ownaccord. Now, self-murder is a crime most remote from thecommon nature of all animals, and an instance of impietyagainst God our Creator: nor, indeed, is there any animalthat dies by its own contrivance or by its own means, for thedesire of life is a law engraven in them all; on which ac足count we deem those that openly take it away from us to beour enemies, and those that do it by treachery are punishedfor so doing. And do not you think that God is very angrywhen a man does injury to what he hath bestowed on him ?For from him it is that wo have received our being, and weought to leave it to his disposal to take that being away fromus. The bodies of all men are, indeed, mortal, and arecreated out of corruptible matter ; but the soul is ever im足mortal, and is a portion of the divinity that inhabits ourbodies. Besides, if any one destroys or abuses a depositumhe hath received from a mere man, he is esteemed a wickedand perfidious person; but then if any one cast out of hisbody this divine depositum, can we imagine that he who isthereby affronted does not know of it ? Moreover, our lawjustly ordains that slaves which run away from their mastersshall be punished, though the masters they ran away frommay have been wicked masters to them. And shall woendeavor to run away from God, who is the best of allmasters, and not think ourselves guilty of impiety ? Do notyou know, that those who depart out of this life according tothe law of nature, and pay that debt which was received fromGod, when he that lent it us is pleased to require it backagain, enjoy eternal fame: that their houses and their pos足terity are sure; that their souls are pure and obedient, andobtain a most holy place in heaven, from whence, in the revo足