OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 1*9 that when, in a certain dramatic representation, he was desirousto make mention of things that were contained in the sacredbooks, he was afflicted with a darkness in his eyes; and thatupon his being conscious of the occasion of his distemper, andappeasing God [by prayer], he was freed from that affliction. 14. And when the king had received these books from De­metrius, as we have said already, he adored them, and gaveorder that great care should be taken of them, that they mightremain uncorrupted. He also desired that the interpreters wouldcome often to him out of Judea, and that both on account of therespects that he would pay them, and on account of the presentshe would make them: For he said, "It was now but just to"send them away, although if of their own accord, they would"come to him hereafter, they should obtain all that their own"wisdom might justly require, and what his generosity was"able to give them." So he then sent them away; and gaveto every one of them three garments of the best sort, and two ta­lents of gold, and a cup of the value of one talent, and the fur­niture of the room wherein they were feasted. And these werethe things he presented to them. But by them he sent to Elea-zar the high priest, ten beds, with feet of silver, and the fur­niture to them belonging, and a cup of the value of thirty ta­lents; and besides these, ten garments, and purple, and a verybeautiful crown, and a hundred pieces of the finest wovenlinen; as also vials and dishes, and vessels for pouring, and twogolden cisterns to be dedicated to God. He also desired him, byan epistle, that he would give these interpreters leave, if anyof them were desirous of coming to him, because he highlyvalued a conversation with men of such learning; and should bevery willing to lay out his wealth upon such men. And thiswas what came to the Jews, and was much to their glory andhonour, from Ptolemy Philadelphus. CHAP. III. How the kings of Asia honoured the nation of the Jews, and madethem citizens of those cities which they built. § 1. 1 HE Jews also obtained honour from the kings of Asia,when they became their auxiliaries; for Seleucus Nicatormade them citizens in those cities which he built in Asia; andin the lower Syria, and in the metropolis itself, Antioch; andgave them privileges equal to those of the Macedonians andGreeks, who were the inhabitants, insomuch that these privi­leges continue to this very day: An argument for which you