OCR Output Chap. XVIII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 419 CHAP. XVIII. The calamities and slaughters that came upon tbt Jews. • § l. 1VTOW the people of Cesarea had slain the Jews that wereJ- ^ among them on the very same day and hour [whenthe soldiers were slain], which one would think must have cometo pass by the direction of Providence; insomuch, that in onehour's time above twenty thousand Jews were killed, and allCesarea was emptied of its Jewish inhabitants; for Floruscaught such as ran away and sent them in bonds to the gallies.Upon which stroke that the Jews received at Cesarea, the wholenation was greatly enraged; so they divided themselves intoseveral parties, and laid waste the villages of the Syrians, andtheir neighbouring cities, Philadelphia, and Sebonitis, andGerasa, and Pella, and Scythopolis, and after them Gadara,and Hippos; and falling upon Gaulanitis, some cities they de­stroyed there, and some they set on fire, and then went to Keda-sa, belonging to the Tyrians, and to Ptolemais, and to Gaba, andto Gesarea, nor was either Sebaste [Samaria], or Askelon ableto oppose the violence with which they were attacked; andwhen they had burnt these to the ground, they entirely demolishedAnthedon and Gaza; many also of the villages that were aboutevery one of those cities were plundered, and an immenseslaughter was made of the men who were caught in them. 2. However the Syrians were even with the Jews in the mul­titude of the men whom they slew; for they killed those whomthey caught in their cities, and that not only out of the hatredthey bear them, as formerly, but to prevent the danger underwhich they were from them; so that the soldiers in all Syriawere terrible, and every city was divided into two armies en­camped one against another, and the preservation of the oneparty was in the destruction of the other; so the day time wasspent in shedding of blood, and the night in fear, which was of thetwo the more terrible; for when the Syrians thought they hadruined the Jews, they had the Judaizer's in suspicion also; and aseach side did not care to slay those whom they only suspected onthe other, so did they greatly fear them when they were ming­led with the other, as if they were certainly foreigners. More­over, greediness of gain was a provocation to kill the oppositeparty, even to such of old as had appeared very mild and gentl*towards them; for they without fear plundered the effects ofthe slain, and carried off the spoils of those whom they slew totheir own houses, as if they had been gained in a set battle; andhe was esteemed a man of honour who got the greatest share, ashaving prevailed over the greatest number of his enemies. It 3 G 2 was