OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. vihces under his civil jurisdiction. The number of their subordinate officers,clerks, messengers, or assistants, was minutely expressed; three hundred andninety-six for the prefect himself, fifty for each of his vicegerents; and the rigiddefinition of their fees and salaries was more effectual to confirm the right, thanto prevent the abuse. These magistrates might be oppressive, but they were notidle: and the subtle questions of justice and revenue were infinitely propagated un­der the new government, which professed to revive the freedom and equity of theRoman republic. The conqueror was solicitous to exact a prompt and plentifulsupply from his African subjects; and he allowed them to claim, even in the thirddegree, and from the collateral line, the houses and lands of which their families"had been unjustly despoiled by the Vandals. After the departure of Belisarius,"who acted by a high and special commission, no ordinary provision was made fora master-general of the forces; but the office of pretorian prefect was intrusted toa soldier; the civil and military powers were united, according to the practice ofJustinian, in the chief governor; and the representative of the emperor in Africa,as well as in Italy, was soon distinguished by the appellation of Exarch. (1) Yet the conquest of Africa was imperfect, till her former sovereign was deli­vered, either alive or dead, into the hands of the Romans. Doubtful of the event,Gelimer had given secret orders that a part of his treasure should be transportedto Spain, where he hoped to find a secure refuge at the court of the king of theVisigoths. But these intentions were disappointed by accident, treachery, and theindefatigable pursuit of his enemies, who intercepted his flight from the sea-shore,and chased the unfortunate monarch, with some faithful followers, to the inacces­sible mountain of Papua,(2) in the inland country of Numidia. He was immedi­ately besieged by Pharas, an officer whose truth and sobriety were the more ap­plauded, as such qualities could seldom be found among the Heruli, the most cor­rupt of the barbarian tribes. To his vigilance Belisarius had intrusted this impor­tant charge; and, after a bold attempt to scale the mountain, in which he lost ahundred and ten soldiers, Pharas expected, during a winter siege, the operationof distress and famine on the mind of the Vandal king. From the softest habits ofpleasure, from the unbounded command of industry and wealth, he was reducedto share the poverty of the Moors,(3) supportable only to themselves by their ig­norance of a happier condition. In their rude hovels of mud and hurdles, whichconfined the smoke and excluded the light, they promiscuously slept on the ground,perhaps on a sheep-skio, with their wives, their children, and their cattle. Sor­did and scanty were their garments; the use of bread and wine was unknown; andtheir oaten or barley cakes, imperfectly baked in the ashes, were devoured almostin a crude state by the hungry savages. The health of Gelimer must have sunk\inder these strange and unwonted hardships, from whatsoever cause they hadbeen endured; but his actual misery was imbittered by the recollection of pastgreatness, the daily insolence of his protectors, and the just apprehension, that thelight and venal Moors might be tempted to betray the rights of hospitality. Theknowledge of his situation dictated the humane and friendly epistle of Pharas.— Like yourself (said the chief of the Heruli) I am an illiterate barbarian, but Ispeak the language of plain sense, and an honest heart. Why will you persist inhopeless obstinacy? Why will you ruin yourself, your family, and nation? Thelove of freedom and abhorrence of slavery? Alas! my dearest Gelimer, are younot already the worst of slaves, the slave of the vile nation of the Moors? Wouldit not be preferable to sustain at Constantinople a life of poverty and servitude, ra­ther than to reign the undoubted monarch of the mountain of Papua? Do youthink it a disgrace to be the subject of Justinian? Belisarius is his subject; and weourselves, whose birth is not inferior to your own, are not ashamed of our obedienceto the Roman emperor. That generous prince will grant you a rich inheritanceof lands, a place in the senate, and the dignity of a patrician: such are his graciousintentions, and you may depend with full assurance on the word of Belisarius. Solong as Heaven lias condemned us to suffer, patience is a virtue; but if we rejectthe proffered deliverance, it degenerates into blind and stupid despair."—"I am (1) The African laws of Justinian are illustrated by his German biographer (Cod. lib. i. tit. 27. Novel. 36,37.131. Vit. Justinian, p. 349—377.) (2) Mount Papua is placed by d'Anville (torn. Hi. p. 92. and Tabul. Imp. Horn. Occident.,) near Hippo Ke-gius and the sea; yet this situation ill agrees with the long pursuit beyond Hippo, and the words of Procopius(sib. ii. c. 4.,) fv to*,- KtotuSnos 6CZs*T0I?. (3) Shaw (Travels, p. 220.) most accurately represents the manners of the Bedoweens and Kabyles, the lastof whom, by their language, are the remnant of the Moors: yet how changed—how civilized are these modemsavages.' provisions arc plenty among them, and bread is common.