OCR Output 398 The peloponnesian war. " than to run to the charge : for otherwise, before this they" had attacked us. And you plainly see, that all the terror" which now runs before them, will vanish at the onset, as" terrible only to sight and hearing. When therefore they" advance to the charge, sustain it and repulse them; and" when opportunity serveth, fall back into your ranks again" with regularity and order. You shall thus the sooner se-" cure your retreat, and be convinced for the time to come," that such rabbles, to men who can stand the first fury of" their onset, have only made, at a distance and by their" pausing, a vain and menacing parade of valour ; but such" as will give ground and fly before them, they pursue" with eagerness ; and are excellently brave, when there is no" resistance. After this exhortation, Brasidas caused his army to fileleisurely off. The Barbarians perceiving it pressed forwardwith great noise and clamour, supposing that he fled, andthat they might intercept and cut him off. But when theappointed parties sallied out from all quarters to receive them,and Brasidas himself with his picked body sustained theircharge, they repulsed them at their first assault, to the greatsurprize of the enemy. Afterwards, receiving every repeat­ed attack, they beat them off continually ; and then duringthe intervals of pause retreated in good order; till at length,the bulk of the Barbarians discontinued their efforts in theplain against the Greeks under Brasidas, and leaving only apart of their body to follow and annoy them in their retreat,the rest wheeled speedily off to pursue the flying Macedoni­ans, and such as they overtook they slaughtered. To thenarrow pass farther between two hills which was the en­trance into the territories of Arribaeus, they hurried beforein order to secure it, knowing it to be the only rout by whichBrasidas could retreat. He was now drawing near it, and inthe most difficult part of the passage they were spreadingthemselves circularly to encompass him on all sides. ButBrasidas perceiving their design, ordered the three hundred