OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 127 elation till his influence was fortified by popular esteem.His life was endangered by the caprice of the emperor;and his dignity was profaned by a second colleague, whohad rowed in the galleys. Yet the murder of his benefac­tor must be condemned as an act of ingratitude and trea­son; and the churches which he dedicated to the name ofSt. Michael, were a poor and puerile expiation of his guilt.The different ages of Basil I. may be compared withthose of Augustus. The situation of the Greek did notallow him in his earliest youth to lead an army againsthis country, or to proscribe the noblest of her sons; buthis aspiring genius stooped to the arts of a slave; hedissembled his ambition and even his virtues,and grasped,with the bloody hand of an assassin, the empire whichhe ruled with the wisdom and tenderness of a parent.A private citizen may feel his interest repugnant to hisduty; but it must be from a deficiency of sense or cou­rage, that an absolute monarch can separate his happi­ness from his glory, or his glory from the public welfare.The life or panegyric of Basil has indeed been composedand published under the long reign of his descendants;but even their stability on the throne may be justly as­cribed to the superior merit of their ancestor. In hischaracter, his grandson Constantine has attempted todelineate a perfect image of royalty; but that feebleprince, unless he had copied a real model could noteasily have soared so high above the level of his ownconduct or conceptions. But the most solid praise ofBasil is drawn from the comparison of a ruined and aflourishing, monarchy, that which he wrested from thedissolute Michael, and that which he bequeathed to theMacedonian dynasty. The evils which had been sanc­tified by time and example, were corrected by his master-hand; and he revived, if not the national spirit, at leastthe order and majesty of the Roman empire. His appli­cation was indefatigable, his temper cool, his understand­ing vigorous and decisive; and in his practice he ob­