OCR Output 2j2 • THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. teus the son of Pellicas, Callicrates the son of Callias, andTimanor the son of Timanthes: Those of the land forceswere Archetimus, the son of Eurytimus, and Isarchidas theson of Isarchus. When they were come up as far as Actium, in the districtof Anactorium, where standeth the temple of Apollo, in themouth of the gulf of Ambracia, they were met by a herald,dispatched expressly in a row-boat by the Corcyreans, forbid­ding them " at their peril to proceed." But at the same timethe Corcyreans were busied at home in manning their ownships, repairing such as were old, to make them fit for service,and equipping the rest with the utmost expedition. Whenthe herald brought back nothing pacific from the Corinthians,and their squadron was now compleated to eighty ships (forthey had forty employed in the siege of Epidamnus), theysailed in quest of the enemy, and drawing up against them,came to an engagement. The victory fell beyond dispute tothe side of the Corcyreans, and fifteen ships of the Corinthi­ans were utterly destroyed. Their good fortune was such, that on the very same day Epi­damnus was surrendered to the besiegers upon a capitulation,by which " all the strangers in the place were to be sold for slaves," but the Corinthians to be detained prisoners at discretion." After the engagement at sea, the Corcyreans havingerected a trophy* upon Leucimna, a promontory of Cor- • This was constantly done by the Grecians upon a victory. Nay, whenthe victory was claimed on both sides, both sides erected trophies, of whichseveral instances occur in Thucydides. The trophies for a victory at landwere decked out with the arms they had taken : Those for a victory at sea,with arm s also, and the shatters of the enemy's ships. "To demoKsh a tro-" phy was looked on as unlawful, and a kind of sacrilege, because they were" all consecrated to some deity : Nor was it less a crime to pay divine ado." ration before them, or to repair them when decayed, as may be likewiseCl observed of the Roman triumphal arches : This being the means to revive" the memory of forgotten quarrels, and engage posterity to revenge the" disgrace of their ancestors : For the same reason, those Grecians, who" tirst introduced the custom of erecting pillars for trophies, incurred a se-'• vere censurr from the ages thry lived in." Putter's Archwlogia, vol. ii. c. 1.2-