OCR Output FIRST VOLUME. 287 Isis and Osiris. Proclus too in Tim. pu 3*. fays that according tothe Æ-yptian historians, there was the following inscription oilthe statue of Minerva, in the adytum of the temple: tym nfu miTo TtyoKif, Kj ot, k) mfun)' k| rot tfjuit ?rtirV.v ot-^iic »» flnjxo; arixa-o» xatfiroi itucc* n'.ior t^!»iTo. i. e. " I am every thing THAT HAS BEEN, THAT IS, AND THAT SHALL BE; AND NOMORTAL HAS EVER VET BEEN ABLE TO WITHDRAW MY VEIL.THE FRTJIT WHICH I HAVF BROUGHT FORTH IS THE SUN."— It is remarkable that this inscription, as far as to the first period,is cited by Plutarch in his above-mentioned treatise ; but I knowof no author except Proclua who has cited the latter part, "thefruit which I have brought forth is the fun;" nor has this import­ant addition been noticed by any modern writer that I am ac­quainted with, owing doubtless to the want of a copious index tothese invaluable commentaries ot Proclus. As Ifis therefore is Minerva, and as the veil of this goddess, asI have observed in a former note, is an emblem of Nature, whichproceeds from those intellectual vital powers contained in the es­sence of Minerva, we may perceive the reason why the Arriians,Æthiopians and Ægyptiaus called Nature (as we are informed byApuleius) Ifis. Likewise since the moon, as we learn from Pro­clus, is the auiWion ayafyia tr,% (fveit*;, the fe/f-i't/ive image of Na­ture, we may fee why Nature was called by the Cretans, accordingto Apuleius in the tame place, Diana. And in short, as Minervawas justly called by the ancients xoji/f n t«» Si»>», the summit of thegods, and is therefore their source in conjunction with her fatherJupittr, we may at one view see the propriety of her being calledby the names of so many other goddesses, in the following sublimepassage from the Metamorphoses of Apuleius : for, as every causeis that primarily which its estect is secondarily, Minerva is in acertain respect the same with all the divinities that proceed iromher, when they arc considered according to their causal subsistencein her essence. The divinity of the moon, then, thus addresses the metamor. phosed