OCR Output 276 ROMAN EMPIRE. idols of men, eagles, lions, and antelopes; and mostconspicuous was the statue of Hebal, of red agate,holding in his hand seven arrows, without heads orfeathers, the instruments and symbols of profane divi­nation. But this statue was a monument of Syrianarts: the devotion of the ruder ages was content with apillar or a tablet; and the rocks of the desert were hewninto gods or altars, in imitation of the black stone' ofMecca, which is deeply tainted with the reproach of anSacrifices idolatrous origin. From Japan to Peru, theand ntes. use of sacrifice has universally prevailed; andthe votary has expressed his gratitude or fear by de­stroying or consuming, in honour of the gods, thedearest and most precious of their gifts. The life of amand is the most precious oblation to deprecate a pub­lic calamity: the altars of Phoenicia and Egypt, ofRome and Carthage, have been polluted with humangore: the cruel practice was long preserved among theArabs; in the third century, a boy was annually sacri­ficed by the the tribe of the Dumatians;' and a royal•captive was piously slaughtered by the prince of theSaracens, the ally and soldier of the emperor Justinian/A parent who drags his son to the altar, exhibits themost painful and sublime effort of fanaticism: the deed,or the intention, was sanctified by the example of saints c In the second century, Maximus of Tyre attributes to the Arabs the worship ofa stone—Apa£iu nBnm pat, orriM if sun oiJ», TO it ayaX/us «>«; Xido; nv •mf&ymK,(Dissert. 8. torn. 1. p. 142. edit . Reiske) and the reproach is furiously re-echoedby the Christians. (Clemens Alex, in Protreptico, p. 40. Arnobius contra Gentes,lib. 6. p. 246.) Yet these stones were no other than the dairuX* of Syria a"dGreece, so renowned in sacred and profane antiquity. (Euseb. Priep. Evangel. lib. 1. p. 37. Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 54—56.) * The two horrid subjects of AvJpo&wna and naiJoSuo-ia, are accurately discussedby the learned sir John Marsharn. (Canon. Chron. p. 76—78. 301—304.) Saa-choniatho derives the Phoenician sacrifices from the example of Chronus: but weare ignorant whether Chronus lived before or after Abraham, or indeed whetherhe lived at all. • KUT" rot fxvrw irai&t iSu», is the reproach of Porphyry; but he likewise im­putes to the Roman the same barbarous custom, which A. U. C. 657, had beenfinally abolished. Dumstha, Daumat al Gendal, is noticed by Ptolemy (Tabul, p.37. Arabia, p. 9—29.) and Abulfeda; (p. 57.) and may be found in d'Anvillesmaps, in the mid-desert between Chaibar and Tadmor. 'Procopins, (de Bell. Persico, lib. 8. c. 28.) Evagrius, (lib. 6. c. 21.) and Po-cock, (Specimen, p. 72. 86.) attest the human sacrifices of the Arabs in the sixthcentury. The danger and escape of Abdallah, is a tradition rather than a fact.(Gagnier, Vic de Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 82—84.)