OCR Output FINDING OF GOLD. 37 21. OF THE FINDING OF GOLD. Gold is found in our part of the world, not to mention thatfrom India, which is dug up by ants, or that among the Scythiansby griffins.7 We procure it in three ways: first in the sand fromthe beds of rivers,8 as is the case with the Tagus in Spain, thePo in Italy, the Hebrus in Thrace, the Pactolus in Asia Minor, andthe Ganges in India.' Nor is there any gold more pure than this;its passage down the river, and the friction completely polishes it.Another source is the earth dug out of open pits,1 and lastly, thebreaking down1 of the mountains: I shall give an account of eachof these modes. In searching for gold, they first remove the Se-gullum,3 for so the substance is called which is regarded as an in足dication of its presence. A channel is formed, in which the sandis washed, and the quality of the sand is determined by ascertain足ing the nature of the sediment. Sometimes, by extraordinarygood fortune, a vein is found near the surface, as was lately thecase in Dalmatia, during the time of Nero, which yielded at therate of 50 lbs. weight per day. If the earth contains gold, a kindof gum called Talutatium" is found just below the sod. The dry 7 A farther detail of the circumstances here alluded to may be found inbook xi. sec. 36, and book vii. sec. 2. Pliny probably took his account fromHerodotus, book iii. sec. 102, and sec. 166. Agricola has attempted toexplain the origin of these stories; De Vet. et Nov. Met. lib. i. p. 393;also De Nat. Foss. lib. viii. p. 330. We have much curious informationrespecting gold mines and the mode of working them in this author, espe足cially in the 8th book of his treatise De Nat. Foss. and in the 2d book ofhis treatise De Vet. et Nov. Metallis. 8 "Ramentum." 9 We learn from Aristotle that gold was found in the soil of Pceonia andPieria, and in the river Ozus in Bactria; De Mirab. Aus. cap. 45... 8.Diodorus Siculus informs us that it was abundant in the rivers of Gaul;lib. iii. sec. 27.- -- 1 "Puteorum-scrobes." r' 2 " Fragmenta." 3 We are informed in the French translation, that Segullo is an oldSpanish word, which is still in use among the Castillians; t. x. note in p.584, 5. '4 In most of the technical mining terms that occur in this chapter, thereare considerable variations in the MSS.; in the present case we have insome copies "alutationem," in others "alutatium." The French trans足lator lenders the word " toute usuelle;" t. x. note in p. 588.