OCR Output 60 TITUS LIVIUS' - . BOOK I. ed ever after, to encourage others to build there also.He admitted among the patricians, the principal familiesof Alba, such as the Julii, Servilii, Quintii, Geganii, Cu-riatii, and Claelii, that the patrician order might be in­creased in proportion: and upon this accession to theorder, he built a temple for a senate-house, which ourfathers knew by the name of Hostilia. And that everyorder might derive some additional strength from the ac­cession of the Albans, he formed from among that peo­ple, ten centuries of knights. With them also he re­cruited the old, and formed new legions. Being now confident of his strength, he declares waragainst the Sabines, a nation, at that time, next theEtrurians, the most populous and powerful of all theirneighbours. Encroachments had been made, and satis­faction demanded by both parties, to no purpose. Tul-lus complained, that some Roman merchants had beenseized at a public market, near the temple of Feronia:the Sabines, that some of their people were detained atRome, although they had fled for protection to theasylum. From these injuries, the war is said to have originated.The Sabines, being well aware, that their strength hadsuffered a considerable diminution, in the party incor­porated by Tatius, with Rome; and that the Romanpower had been considerably increased by the accessionof Alba, thought proper to look about for foreign aid.Etruria lay next them ; and of jthat country the Vejenteswere their nearest neighbours. From thence they drewvolunteers, who, when the ashes of former wars wereraked up in their minds, were easily prevailed on to re­volt. Vagrants too among the poorer sort, enlisted intheir service for pay; but by public authority, they hadno assistance: for the Vejentes strictly observed the trea­ty made with Romulus; and it is not surprizing that theywere joined by none of the other powers. Both parties having made all possible preparations,and nothing remaining now, but to strike the first blow,Tullus begins to march his army into their country. Abloody actio\} ensued, near the malefactor's forest, iawhich the Roman army proved far superior not only inthe weight of their infajUry, but also by the late aug­