OCR Output THE LIFE OF -FLAVJDS JOSEFHUS. 197 persons before named gave their advice, that the city should thencontinue in their allegiance to the Romans, and to the king. ButPistus, who was guided by his son Justus, did not acquiesce inthat resolution ; otherwise he was himself naturally of a goodand virtuous character. But the second faction was composedof the most ignoble persons, and was determined for war. Butas for Justus, the son of Pistus, who was the head of the thirdfaction, although he pretended to be doubtful about going to war,yet was he really desirous of innovation, as supposing that heshould gain power to himself by the change of affairs. He there足fore came into the midst of them, and endeavoured to inform themultitude, That " the city Tiberias had ever been a city of" Galilee, and that in the days of Herod the tetrarch, who had" built it, it had obtained the principal place, and that he had or-" dered that the city Sepphoris should be subordinate to the city" Tiberias ; that they had not lost this pre-eminence even under." Agrippa the father, but had retained it until Felix was procu-" rator of Judea. But he told them, that now they had been so" unfortunate as to be made a present by Nero to Agrippa jn-f nior ; and that, upon Sepphoris's submission of itself to the" Romans, that was become the capital city of Galilee, and that" the royal treasury and the archives were now removed from" them." When he had spoken these things, and a great manymore against Agrippa, in order to provoke the people to a revolt,lie added, That " this was the time for them to take arms, and" join with the Galileans as their confederates (whom they might" command, and who would now willingly assist them out of the'.' hatred they bare to the people of Sepphoris, because they pre-" served their fidelity to the Romans), and to gather a great ntun-',' ber of forces in order to punish them." And, as he said this, heexhorted the multitude [,to go to war] ; for his abilities lay inmaking harangues to the people, and in being too hard in hisspeeches for such as opposed him, though they advised what wasmore to their advantage, and this by his craftiness and his falla足cies, for he was not unskilful in the learning of the Greeks,and in dependence on that skill it was, that he undertook tewrite an history of these affairs, as aiming by this way of ha足ranguing to disguise the truth. But as to this man, rmd how illwere his character and conduct of life, and he and his brotherwere, in great measure, the authors of our destruction, I shallgive the reader an account in the progress of my narration. Sowhen Justus had, by his persuasions, prevailed with the citizensof Tiberias to take arms, nay, and had foreed a great many so todo against their will, he went out, and set the villages that be足longed