OCR Output 392 MYUS. XABATAEI. tain. It was probably bat a small town, thoughstrongly fortified, whence Pbilistus (pp. Steph. B.». v.) called it "a fortress of Sicily." It is con­spicuously mentioned during the First Punic War.when it was in the hands of the Carthaginians, andwas besieged by the Romans, but for some time with­out success, on account of the great strength of itsposition; it was at length taken by the consul A.Atilius Calatimis in u. c. 258. The inhabitantswere cither put to the sword or sold as slaves, andthe town itself entirely destroyed. (Pol. i. 24;Diod. xxiii. 9, Exc. lioetch. p. 503; Zonar. viii.)It was, however, again inhabited at a later period, aswe find the Mutustratiui mentioned by Pliny amongthe municijKil towns of the interior of Sicily. (Plin. iii.8. a. 14.) But no notice of its name occurs in theinterval, ami Cluverios (who has been followed bymany modern geographers) would, therefore, identifyMytistratus with Amestratus: an assumption forwhich there are certainly no sufficient grounds, bothnames being perfectly well attested. [Amestka-TC8.] (Clnver. SicU. p. 383.) [K. H. B.] MYrS(Muooy: Kth. MoooVios), an Ionian townin Caria, on the southern bank of tlie Maeander, at adistance of 30 stadia from the mouth of that river.Its foundation was ascribed to Cydrelus, a naturalson of Codrus. (Strab. xiv. p. 633.) It was thesmallest among the twelve Ionian cities, and in thedays of Strabo (xiv. p. 636) the ]x>pulati<>n was soreduced that they did not form a jiolitical commu­nity, but became incorporated with Miletus, whitherin the end the Myusians transferred themselves,abandoning their own town altogether. This lastevent happened, according to Pausanias (vii. 2. § 7),on account of the great number of flies which an­noyed the inhabitants; but it was more probably onaccount of the frequent inundations to which theplace was exposed. (Vitruv. iv. 1.) Mytis was oneof the three towns given to Theniistocles by thePersian king (Thucyd. i. 138; Diod. Sic. xi. 57;Plut. Them. 29; Athen. i. p. 29; Nep. Them. 10.)During the Peloponncsian War the Athenians ex­perienced a check near this place from the Carinas.(Thucyd. iii. 19.) Philip of Macedonia, who hadobtained possession of Myus, ceded it to the Mag-nesians. Athen. iii. p. 78.) The only edificenoticed by the ancients at Myus was a temple ofDionysus, built of white marble. (Pans. /. c.) Themmense quantity of deposits carried down by theMaeander liave considerably removed the coast-line,so that even in Strabo's time the distance betweenMyus and the sea was increased to 40 stadia (xii.p. 579), while originally the town had no doubtbeen built on the coast itself. Tliere still are someruins of .Myus, which most travellers, forgetting thechanges wrought by the Maeander, have mistakenfor those of Miletus, while those of lleracleia havebeen mistaken for those of Myus. (Comp. I.eakc,Alia Minor, p. 239, &C.) The mistake is repeatedby Sir C. Fellows (Journal of a Tour in At. Min.p. 263), though it had been pointed out long beforehis time. [L. S.J N NAAHDA (Nad>5o, Plol. t. 18. § 7; Steph. B.*. r.; Ntapta, Joseph. Ant. xviii. 12), a small placein Mesopotamia, near Sipphara. It is probably thesame ns that called in the Peutinger Table Naluu'ra.Josrphus sneaks (/. f.) of Nearda as a place in »sj7ii *-■;•* no eiiuaiiM insu urn tance from flaghjLkL f V.j[Babvloxia, Vol. L p. Babylonia, possessing an extensive range of territory,and defended from hostile attack by the Euphrates,which Mows round it. When Tiberius overthrewthe Jews in the East, the remnant of that peopletook refuge iu Nanrda and Kisibis; and the formercity long remained a place of refuge for the Jews.In the intermediate records of the Christian Eastwc find occasional notices of this place, noder thetitles of N'ahardcir and Beth-Xuhadra. Thus, isA. i>. 421, a bishop of Xsliiirdcir is mentioned ( Aa-sem. BiU. Orient, iii. p. 264); in A. u. 755, J.ioasis bishop of Beth-Xuhadra (Assem. ii. p. Ill):and as late as A. n. 1285. another |*Tson is recordedas " Kpiscopus Nuhmlrensis.* (A>sem. ii. p. 249.)During all this period Xearda is included within theepiscopal province of Mosul. Lastly, in the Travelsof Benjamin of Tudela, which took plate towardsthe end of the 12th century, the traveller mrottaugoing to " Juba, which is Pumbeditha, in Xeharuea,containing about two thousand Jews" (p. 92.Asher's edit.); from which it appears that, at thatperiod, Naarda was considered to comprehend a dis­trict with other towns in it. Pumbeditha and Larawere two celebrated Jewish towns situated near «another, at no great distance 1 NAARMA1.C1IA.362, a.] NABAEUS (NaSaTot, Ptol. ii. 3. §1), a;the extreme north of Britannia Barbara or Caledonia,probably the Xavern river, east of C. Wratk. KABALIA, in the text of Tacitus (Hut. t. Sr«).is a river in or near the Batavorum Insula, o»*rwhich tliere was a bridge. During the war hrtw«nCivilis and the Romans, there was a cunfere&rlietween Civilis and Cercalis on this bridge, whichhad been cut asunder for safety's sake, each partyat the conference keeping on his own side of theriver. It is uncertain if the name Nahalia is right;and if it is right, it is also uncertain what toe ri*eris. It must, however, be some stream about thelower part of the Rhine; and Walckenacr (Oroj.<jc. vol. i. p. 296) conjectures tliat it is the laws'or eastern branch of the Rhine which flow* into ibeZnyiL-r Zee. Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) has a placeNavalia (NauaAia) in Great Get-mania, the positionof which, if wc can trust the,numbers, is on or nearPtolemy's eastern branch of the Rhine, «hairierthat eastern branch may be. [<j. L_] NABATAEl (Naffa/roToi, 'AiraroMM, PtoL Tt. 7.§ 21; NaSdVai, Suid. t. v.; Nauaraioi, I.XX.; Nab*.thae. Sen. Here. Oel. 160: the country, NasVrsua,Strab.; HaGaTTirfi, Joseph.), a numerous and un^rt-ant peo]i)e of Arabia Petraea, celebrated in the < lis-sical geographers. Josephus describes the coai.tryas comprehending all from tlie Euphrates to theRed Sea, i. e. the whole of tl>e northern part of tl»Arabian peninsula ; and inhabited by tlie descftahuirtof the 12 sons of Ishlnael, from the eldest of *h»>in.Nebaioth, this territory is sup)iosed to hare den>nlits name. This is confirmed by tlie authority «/ S.Jerome, three centuries later, who writes, " Xroa»i:homnis regio ab Euphrate usque ad Man KabnimNabathena usque hodie dicitur, quae part Arabia*est." (Joseph. Ant. i. 13. § 4; liierwi. C'nskntfa (lent*, xxv. 13.) Tlie only allusion to thispeople in the canonical Scriptures, supposing tiarasidentical, is by their |<itrisrchal deaignattoii; andthe mention of the "rams of KebaiotV in «•-nrction with tlie "flocks of Kedar* (Im. lx. 7).intimates that they existed as a dutinrt pastoraltribe. But they occur frequently in history after