OCR Output NILUS. ■(.II NILUS. The river nearly resembles in its natural featuresand the cultivation of its banks the acknowledgedKile below the junction lower down. The currentii swift and regular: the banks are firm and welldefined: populous Tillages stand in the midst ofclumps of date-trees or fields of millet (dhourra),and both the land and the water attest the activityof human enterprise. A difference corresponding to these features isobservable also in the respective currents of theserivers. The White River moves sluggishly along,without rapids or cataracts: the Blue River runsstrongly at all seasons, and after the periodical rainsvith the force and speed of a torrent. The diver­sity is seen also on the arrival of their waters at thepoint of junction. Although the White River isfed by early rains near the equator, its floods ordi­narily reach Khartum three weeks later than thoseof the Blue River. And at their place of meetingthe superior strength of the latter is apparent. Forwhile the stronger flood discharges itself through abroad channel, free from bars and shoals, the WhiteRiver is contracted at its mouth, and the more rapidcurrent of its rival has thrown up a line of sandacross its influx. Actual measurement, too, hasprwed the breadth of the Blue River at the pointof junction to be 768 yards, while that of theWhite is only 483, and the body of water poureddown by the former is double of that discharged bythe latter. From all these circumstances it is pro­bable that to the Bahr-el~Azrek rather than tothe Bahr-cl-Abiad belongs the name of the "trueNile:" and this supposition accords with an ancienttradition among the people of Sennaar who hold theBlue River in peculiar veneration as the "Father ofthe Waters that run into the Great Sea." The knowledge possessed by the ancients of theupper portions and tributaries of the Nile was notaltogether in a direct proportion to the date of theirintercourse with those regions. Indeed, the earliertrack of commerce was more favourable to acquaint­ance with the interior than were its later channels.The overland route declined after the Ptolemiestransferred the trade from the rivers and the roadsacross the desert to Axume, Adulis, Berenice, andthe ports of the Red Sea. Eratosthenes and other geo-grapLera, who wrote while Aethiopia still flourished,had thns better means of information than their suc­cessors in Roman times, Strabo, Ptolemy, &c. Dio-dorus (i. 30), for example, says that a voyage upthe Kile to Meroe was a costly and hazardous under­taking; and Nero's explorers (Plin. v. 9. s. 10; Senec.A". Q. vi. 8) seem to have found in that once popu­lous and fertile kingdom only solitude and decay.At the close of the third century A. p. the Romansabandoned every station on the Nile above Philae,as nut worth the cost and care of defence, — a proofthat the river-traffic, beyond Aegypt, must havedwindled away. As the trade with Arabia andTsprobane (Ceylon) by sea developed itself, that withLibya would become of less importance; and in pro-yjnvm as the Red Sea was better known, thebranches and sources of the Kile were obscured. (2.) The A& below the point of junction.—Thetwo streams flow in a common bed for several milesK. of Khartum, without, however, blending theirwaters. The Bahr-Abiad retains its white soapybue. both in the dry season and during the inun­dations, while the Bahr-Azrtk is distinguished byha dark colour. For 12 or 15 miles below the pointof junction the Kile traverses a narrow and gloomy defile, until it emerges among the immense plainsof herbage in the mesopotamian district of Meroe.Beyond Meroe, already described [Meroe], the■Kile receives its last considerable affluent, the Asta-boras or Tacazze; the only other accessions to itastream in its course northward being the torrents orwadys that, in the rainy season, descend from theArabian hills. From the N. of Meroe to Syene,a distance of about 700 miles, the river entersupon the region of Cataracts, concerning which theancients invented or credited so many marvels.(Cic Somn. Sap. 5; Senec. N. Q. iv. 2.) These rapids are seven in number, and aresimply dams or weirs of granite or porphyry risingthrough the sandstone, and, being little affectedby the attrition of the water, resist its action,divide its stream, and render its fall per miledouble of the average fall below Philae. So far,however, from the river descending lofty precipiceswith a deafening noise, even the steepest of therapids may be shot, though not without some dan­ger, at high water; and at the great Cataract theentire descent in a space of 5 miles is only 80 feet.[Philae.] Increased by the stream of the Asta-boras, the Nile, from lat. 17° 45' N., flows in anortherly direction for 120 miles, through the landof the Berbers. Then comes its great SW. elbowor bend, commencing at the rocky island ofMogrtb (lat 19° K), and continuing nearlyto the most northern point of Meroe. Duringthis lateral deflection the Kile is bounded W. bythe desert of Bahiouda, the region of the an­cient Kubae, and E. by the Arabian Desert, in­habited, or rather traversed, by the nomade Blem-myes and Megabari. [Macrobii.] Throughoutthis portion of its course the navigation of the riveris greatly impeded by rapids, so that the caravansleave its banks, and regain them by a road crossingthe eastern desert at Derr or Syene, between thefirst and second Cataracts. No monuments connectthis region with either Meroe or Aegypt. It mustalways, indeed, have been thinly peopled, since theonly cultivable soil consists of strips or patches ofland extending about 2 miles at furthest beyondeither bank of the Nile. While skirting or intersecting the kingdom ofMeroe, the river flowed by city and necropolis,which, according to some writers, imparted theirforms and civilisation to Aegypt, according toothers derived both art and polity from it. Thedesert of Bahiouda severs the chain of monuments,which, however, is resumed below the fourth Cata­ract at Nouri, Gebel-iUBirkel, and Meraict.(Lat 20° N.) Of thirty-five pyramids at AWi,on the left bank of the river, about half are ingood preservation; but the purpose which theyserved is uncertain, since no ruins of any citiespoint to them as a necropolis, and they are withoutsculptures or hieroglyphics. On the western sideof Gebel-eLBirkel, about 8 miles lower down, andon the right bank, are found not only pyramids, butalso the remains of several temples and the ves­tiges of a city, probably Napata, the capital of Can-dace, the Acthiopian queen. [Napata.] (Cail-liaud, t Isle de Meroe, vol. iii. p. 197; Hoskins,Travel/, p. 136—141.) About the 18th degreeof N. latitude the Nile resumes its northerly direc­tion, which it observes generally until it approachesthe second Cataract. In resuming its direct courseto N., it enters the kingdom of Dongola, and mostof the features which marked its channel through the