OCR Output i56 THE DECLINE AND FALX Popular dis­content. Victory andrevolt ofÆmilianus.A. D.153. presents and subsidies were liberally distributed among friends andsuppliants, they were sternly refused to such as claimed them as adebt But this stipulation of an annual payment to a victoriousenemy, appeared without disguise in the light of an ignominioustribute; the minds of the Romans were not yet accustomedto accept such unequal laws from a tribe of barbarians; and theprince, who by a necessary concession had probably saved hiscountry, became the object of the general contempt and aversion.The death of Hostilianus, though it happened in the midst of araging pestilence, was interpreted as the personal crime ofGallus5*; and even the defeat of the late emperor was ascribedby the voice of suspicion to the perfidious counsels of his hated suc­cessor 5!. The tranquillity which the empire enjoyed during the firstyear of his administration 56, served rather to inflame than to ap­pease the public discontent; and, as soon as the apprehensions ofwar were removed, the infamy of the peace was more deeply andmore sensibly felt. But the Romans were irritated to a still higher degree, when theydiscovered that they had not even secured their repose, though at theexpence of their honour. The dangerous secret of the wealth andweakness of the empire, had been revealed to the world. New swarmsof barbarians, encouraged by the success, and not conceiving themselvesbound by the obligation of their brethren, spread devastation throughthe Illyrian provinces, and terror as far as the gates of Rome. Thedefence of the monarchy, which seemed abandoned by the pusillani­mous emperor, was assumed by Æmilianus, governor of Pannoniaand Mæsia; who rallied the scattered forces, and revived the faint­ing spirits of the troops. The barbarians were unexpectedly at­tacked, routed, chaced, and pursued beyond the Danube. The vic­torious leader distributed as a donative the money collected for thetribute, and the acclamations of the soldiers proclaimed him emperoron the field of battle ". Gallus, who, careless of the general wel­fare,