OCR Output CHAP, 58. ROMAN HISTORY. 395 bius Vibulanus, and C. Servilius Ahala. The last wasrewarded by being contmued in his office, both in regardof his other virtues, and the favour lie had lately acquir­ed by his singular moderation. CHAP. LV1II. The people refuse their assent to a war with the Vejentcs. J. HAT year, the truce with the Vejentes being ex­pired, heralds and commissioners were dispatched to de­mand satisfaction for injuries sustained. These heraldswere met on the way, as they were approaching themarches, by an embassy from Veii. The embassy re­quested that they would proceed no farther, till theyhad an audience from the senate of Rome. The min­isters of the Vejentes obtained from the senate, that sincetheir state laboured under all the calamities of civil dis­sensions, that satisfaction should'be demanded of them..So far were they from taking advantage of the misfor­tunes of others to promote (heir own interest. At this time the Romans met with a disaster in thecountry of the Volsci, in the loss of their garrison-at Ver-rugo, Where a little time was of such consequence, thatthe garrison who were besieged by the Volsci, and hadimplored assistance, might have been"relieved, had theybeen reinforced in time. The army sent for this purpose.came only in time to retaliate on the enemy just as.they had put the Roman garrison to the sword, and dis­persed themselves with a design to plunder. The senatewas more to blame in not hastening the troops, than thetribunes, because they were told that the garrison madea vigorous defence; never reflecting, that no couragewhatever, can .exceed the bounds of human force. Thesebrave fellows 'sold their lives dear; and after their fallwere severely revenged. The following year had for military tribunes, the twoCornelii Cossi, P. and Cn.'Numerius, Fabius Ambustusand L. Valerius Potitus, when a motion was made tochastise the Vejentes for the insolence of their senate inordering the Roman ambassadors to be told, when theywere demanding restitution, that if they Hid not imine­