OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. #T his successor, he outlived but a few days, and then died, after hehad held the government twenty-two years five months and threedays: now Caius was the fourth emperor. But, when the Ro­mans understood that Tiberius was dead, they rejoiced at thegood news, but had not courage to believe it j not because they,frere unwilling it should be true, for they would have givenlarge sums of money that it might be so, but because they wereafraid, that if they had shewed their joy when the news provedfalse, their joy should be openly known, and they should be ac­cused for it, and be thereby undone. For this Tiberius hadbrought a vast number of miseries on the best families of theRomans, since he was easily enflamed with passion in all cases,and was of such a temper as rendered his anger irrevocable, tillhe had executed the same, although he had taken an hatredagainst men without reason ; for he was by nature fierce in afl{he sentences he gave, and made death the penalty for the lightestoffences;' insomuch that when the Romans heard the rumourabout his death gladly, they were restrained from the enjoymeritof that pleasure by the dread of such miseries as they foresawifrould follow, if their hopes proved ill-grounded. Now, Mar.4yas, Agrippa'sfreed-man, as soon as he heard of Tiberius's death,Came running to tell Agrippa the news ; and finding him goingOut to the bath, he gave him a nod, and said, in the Hebrew-tongue, " The lion * is dead :" who, understanding his meaning,and being overjoyed at the news, " Nay, said he, but nil sorts of" thanks and happiness attend thee for this news of thine ; only" I wish that what thou sayest may prove true." Now thecenturion, who was set to keep Agrippa, when he saw with what'haste Marsyascame, and what joy Agrippa had from what he said,he had a suspicion that his words implied some great innovationof affairs, and he asked them about what was said. They at firstdiverted the discourse ; but upon his farther pressing, Agrippa,without more ado, told him, for he was already become hrsfriend ; so he joined with him in that pleasure which this newsOccasioned, because it would be fortunate to Agrippa, and madehim a supper. But, as they were feasting, and the cnps wentabout, there came one who said, That " Tiberius was still alive," and would return to the city in a few days." At which newsthe centurion was exceedingly troubled, because he had donewhat might cost him his life, to have treated so joyfully a pri­soner, * This nam6 of a lion is often given to tyrants, especially by the Jews, such asAgrippa, and probably his freed-man Marsyas, in effect were, Ezek. xix. I. 9.Esth' xiv. 13. 2 Tim. iv' 17. They are also sometimes compared to, or repre.sented by wild beasts, of which the lion is the principal. Dan. vii' 3. 8. Apoc.xiii. r. 2.