OCR Output 0 F R O M E. 35 "will that this Numa Pompilius, whofe head I B o o K"shold, mould be king of Rome, difplay to us, we ._J-y.^J"befeech thec, clear tokens of the fame, within"thofe limits which I have marked out." He thennamed the particular aufpices, which he wifhedfhould be fent; and, thefe having appeared, Numawas declared king, and came down from the confe-crated ftand. ,/.. XIX. BEING thus put in pofiefHon of the king-•dom, and confidering that the city was but of moreHanding, and had been founded by means of vio­lence and arms, he formed a defign of founding itanew, upon principles ofjuftice, laws, and morals;and, knowing that the minds of the people, render­ed ferocious by a military life, would never.accom-modate themfelves to the practice of thefe, duringthe continuance of war, he fefolved, by a difufe ofarms, to mollify the fiercenefs of their temper: withthis. view, he built a temple to Janus *, near thefoot of the hill Argiletum f, which was to notify aftate either of war or of peace: when open, it'de-noted that the ftate was engaged in war; when fhut,that there was peace with all the furrounding nations.Since the reign of Numa, it has been fhut but twice;once, in the confulate of Titus Manlius, upon theconclufion of the firft Punic war: the happinefs offeeing it fhut the fecond time, the gods granted toour own times, when, after the battle of Actium, theemperor Caefar Auguftuseftablifhcd univerfil peace,on land and fea. This he then fhutj a::d having, by • Janns is the moft antient kfng in Inly, cfwh^m any knowledgehas been handed down to poftu.iy: he was the fir'.l who introducedcivilization, and the wilful aits, among the wild inhabitants of thatcountry. He is reprefenteil with two t:tces, as knowing both the pilland the future; fometimes wiih four; in whivh l.nter t'orm, one ofthe many temples dedicated to him at Rome, was nvclcJ; Invii.g tourequal ficies, on each lide one door :inil ihres wiivl;,ws; the tour 'loor1were emblematical of the feafons; the twelve wir.do'A.s, of the months;auil the whole, of the year. f A fmall hill, to the czft of the Palatine. B 2 treaties