OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. highways to annoy the feet of the horses; and as newgates could not suddenly be procured, the entrance wasguarded by a Spartan rampart of his bravest soldiers.At the expiration of twenty-five days, Totila returned byhasty marches from Apulia, to avenge the injury and dis­grace. Belisarius expected his approach. The Gothswere thrice repulsed in three general assaults; they lostthe flower of their troops; the royal standard had almostfallen into the hands of the enemy, and the fame of To­tila sunk, as it had risen, with the fortune of his arms.Whatever skill and courage could achieve, had been per­formed by the Roman general; it remained only, thatJustinian should terminate, by a strong and seasonableeffort, the war which he had ambitiously undertaken.The indolence, perhaps the impotence, of a prince whodespised his enemies, and envied his servants, protractedthe calamities of Italy. After a long silence, Belisariuswas commanded to leave a sufficient garrison at Rome,and to transport himself into the province of Lucania,whose inhabitants, inflamed by Catholic zeal, had castaway the yoke of their Arian conquerors. In this igno­ble warfare, the hero, invincible against the power of theBarbarians, was basely vanquished by the delay, the dis­obedience, and the cowardice of his own officers. Hereposed in his winter-quarters of Crotona, in the full as­surance, that the two passes of the Lucanian hills wereguarded by his cavalry. They were betrayed by treach­ery or weakness; and the rapid march of the Gothsscarcely allowed time for the escape of Belisarius to thecoast of Sicily. At length a fleet and army were assem­bled for the relief of Ruscianum, or Rossano," a fortresssixty furlongs from the ruins of Sybaris, where the noblesof Lucania had taken refuge. In the first attempt, the a herb with a prickly fruit common in Italy. (Martin, ad Virgil. Georgic. 1. 153.vol. 2. p. 33.) 8 Rascia, the navale Thuriarum, was transferred to the distance of sixty stadia toRuscianam, Rossano, an archbishopric without suffragans. The republic of Sybarisis now the estate of the duke of Corigliano. (Riedesel, Trarels into Magna Grreciaand Sicily, p. 166—171.)