OCR Output 54 ROMAN EMPIRE. effect, and the timid or vehement Catholics condemnedeven the semblance of a retreat in the presence of a subtleand audacious enemy. The orthodox (the prevailing)party devised new modes of speech, and argument, andinterpretation: to either nature of Christ, they speciousrly applied a proper and distinct energy; but the diffe­rence was no longer visible when they allowed that thehuman and the divine will were invariably the same.kThe disease was attended with the customary symptoms >but the Greek clergy, as if satiated with the endless con­troversy of the incarnation, instilled a healing counsel in-tq the ear of the prince and people. They declared them­selves MONOTHELITES (assertors of the unity of will), butthey treated the words as new, the questions as superflu­ous; and recommended a religious silence as the mostagreeable to the prudence and charity of the gospel.of silence was successively imposed byraciu Qr exposition of Heraclius, the type A.D.639; or model of his grandson Constans;' and the im-Constanfc perfect edicts were subscribed with alacrity orA. b. 648. reluctance by the four patriarchs of Rome, Con-stantinpple, Alexandria, and Antipch. JJut the bishopand monks of Jerusalem sounded the alarm: in the lan­guage, or even in the silence, of the Greeks, the Latinchurches detected a latent heresy; and the obedience ofpope Honorius to, the commands of his sovereign wasretracted afl$ censured by the bolder ignorance of hissuccessors. They condemned the execrable and abo^mjn,able h,e.re£y of the Monqthelites, who revived the er­ ignorant that they might allege the positive authority of the eothesis. 'O fua{itNaimi{iif xaiwl{ tuufm tvi diutt nu Kufieu aa&fvf*ru, KOI Suo tiaa-ym vuyt, (the com­mon reproach of the A^onophisites,) Jut OtXn/uara TWT« uma nu fnX/wtirfj •naiamn>( TauTo BouVav TOT . . . . tin irpwawm ilefcan. (Concil. torn. 7. p. 205.) k See the orthodox faith in Fetavios: (Dogmata Theolog. torn. 5. lib. 9. c. 6—10.p. 433—447.) all the depths of this controversy. are founded in the Creek dialoguebetween Marimus and Pyrrhus, (ad calcem, torn, 8. Annal. Baron, p. 7o$—794.)which relates a real conference, and produced as short-lived a conversion. 1 Impiissimam ecthesim .... ecelerosum typum (Concil. torn. 7. p.366.)diabo-licsa operationis genimina, (sora, germina, or eke the Greek ymftpTo. in the origi­nal. Concil. p. 363, 364.) are the expressions of the eighteenth anathema. Theepistle of pope Martin to Amandus, a Gallican bishop, stigmatizes^ the Monpthe-lites and their heresy with equal virulence, (p. 392.)