OCR Output 11, 2 between Rome and the East. Cicero speaks of it asposita in f/remio imperii nostri. It increased insize and rObC in importance with the consolidation ofthe Kmpire. Strabo in the first century, ami Luc i anin the second, speak in strong language of theamount of its population. The supreme magistrates(apparently six in number) who ruled in Thessa-ionica as a free city of the Empire were entitledTtoAirapxai, as we learn from the remarkable co­incidence of St. Luke's language (Act. Ap. xvii. 6)with an inscription on the Yarddr pate. (Bbckh,1967. Belley mentions another inscription con­taining the bum term.) In Ad, Ap. xvii. 5, the'jf.ii.os is mentioned which formed part of the con­stitution of the city. Tafel thinks that it had a($ou\}i also. During the first three centuries of the Christianera, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole coun­try between the Adriatic and tiie Black Sea ; andeven after the founding uf Constantinople it re­mained practically the metropolis of Greece. Mace­donia, and Illyricum. In the middle of the thirdcentury, as we learn from coins, it was made aHuman cohmia; perhaps with the view of strength­ening this position against the barbarian invasions,which now became threatening. Thessalonica wasthe great safeguard of the Empire during the firstshock of the Gothic inroads. Constantios passedsome time here after his victory over the Sannatians;and perhaps the second arch, which is mentionedbelow, was a commemoration of this victory : lie issaid also by Zosirnus (ii. p. 86, ed. Bonn) to haveconstructed the port, by which we are, no doubt,to understand that he repaired and improved itafter a time of comparative neglect. Passing bythe dreadful massacre by Theodosios (Gibbon'sJiinne, ch. x.wii.), we come to the Sclavonic wars,of which the Gothic wars were only the prelude,and the brunt of which was successfully borne byThessalonica from the middle of the sixth centuryto the latter part of the eighth. The history ofthese six Sclavonic wars, and their relation to Thes­salonica, has been elaborated with great care byTafel. In the course of the Middle Ages Thessalonica wasthree times taken ; and its history during this periodis thus conveniently divided into three stages. OnSunday, July 29th, 904, the Saracen fleet appearedbefore the city, which was stormed after a few days1righting. The slaughter of the citizens was dread­ful, and vast numbers were sold in the variousslave-markets of the Levant. The story of theseevents is tuld by Jo. Cameiiiata, who was crozier-bearer to the nrclibishop of Thessalonica. From hisnarrative it lias been inferred that the population ofthe city at this time must have been 22U.UOO. (VeExc'tdio Thessidonircusi, in the volume cntit.Th< nphmu g Continuutm of thei|fl*JM|L of the Bwriters, 1838.) The neoM »stronteTheasaJonica wasNormans of Sicily.,round the Smarched by of the Byz. writers. (Dt ThtunUmica a Ucapta, in the same voL with L#o Gubsmb1842.) Soon after this period follows lie rehistory of western feudalism in "I hessiicaci aBoniface, marquis of Moncferrat, and bu sorwnduring the first half of tbe 13th cetsrT.city was again under Latin donutioo (brief,sold by the Greek emperor to the VstctisM) <it was finally taken by the Turk* war AeII., in 1430. This event also U d^m;«i!writer in the Bonn Byzantine series (Joanne,gnostes, de 7hrjsaLmicensi Excidio .VarraftMsame volume with I'hranzes and Canara*, 183For the medieval history ot' TheKaloeia mFin lay's works. MeJSmtU 0>wer(l$51),af\.71135—147; Byzantine and Grtek Empirn,*(1853), pp. 315—332, Tol. ii. (1854). Bft lit—266, 607. For its modern condiuue wrefer to the travellers, especially Beaajw,shie'ry, Holland, and Leake. 4. KcCLESIASTlCAL HlSTORY.—The «■Thessalonica are so closely cuurtectei wnk nithat it is desirable to review theso is ■ ■After Alexander's death the Jews sprraJ ■ail the large cities of the provinces «sidformed his empire. Hence then tsMoaSSin the first century of the Chru-tian cri tar?settled in considerable numbers at Tbrafalofldeed this circumstance contributed to the satblishment of Christianity there by St-PsalA p. xvii. 1). It seems probable thataaspmunity of Jews has been found in tba ofBince. They are mentioned in the jertatk flduring the Sclavonic wars; and a^ain is tbttby Kustathius and Benjamin of Tatf*kevents of the fifteenth century had tat elbringing a large number of Spanish Jew *taiouica. l'aul Lucas says that in bis ea)were 30,000 of this nation here, «itb Sgogucs. More recent a .ithc-rities ran b10,000 and 20.000. The present Jew A qis in the south-east p.irt of tbe tows. Christianity, once established iu TbeMspread from it in various directions, ia eaeaiof the mercantile relations of the city. (1i. 8.) During the succeeding centoriai ;swas the bulwark, not simply of the Bynatapire, but of Oriental ChrL-lendo-n,—sadinstrumental in the conversion of tbe Sealand Bulgarians. Thus it received the ess)of "The Orthodox City." It is trui *legends of Demetrius, its patron saint (a Satthe early part of tbe fourth century). a&af)Christian history uf Thes&aioruca; in cssQsuccess or failure seems to have been aatriblthe granting or witldiolding of his airesr: Ihas a distinguished place in tasalTheodujbius was bapuied byistlere, in coa>e^u<0£« ef tSBmorose, is chiefly cessMctsi jesiaatical asKvUtucs- Tfcbecame almost a j*tra-"tha*the withdrawal of tiie pnooasdictiun from cutioectioa *ia% ithe reign of Leu baaiies*. banal