OCR Output STRACUSAE. lOfil SYRACUSAE. Turn was undoubtedly a powerful prince, and Sy-uuse seems to have risen, during this long period( pace and tranquillity, to a high state of wealthw prosperity. Its commercial relations with fo-'irn countries, especially with Egypt, were assidu-blj eultirated and extended, while the naturaln-jurres »f its fertile territory were developed toi- utmost by the wise and judicious regulations of. <tt). which, under the name of the Lex Hieronica,m subsequently introduced into all parts of Sicily,11 continued to be observed by the Romans, ininr administration of that province. At the samei.'.* the monarch adorned the city with many::'..c works and buildings, including temples, gym-ait, &c, while he displayed his wealth andunificence by splendid offerings, both at Rome1 iht meat noted sanctuaries of Greece. On theboh it may probably be assumed that the reignIWrMi II. was the period when Syracuse attainedi oigheet degree of splendour and magnificence, as.< u of wealth and population.Hut this state of things was abruptly changed'x: the death of Hieron. His grandson, Hierony- who succeeded him, deserted the alliance ofu fur that of Carthage, and though the youngBr, was shortly after assassinated, the Carthagi-hi party continued to maintain its ascendency at:srtu« under two leaders named Hippocrates and4;rdes, who were appointed generals with bu­rn power. They shut the gates against Mar-h. who was in command of the Roman armiestticily, and having refused all terms of accommo-ticjii, compelled that general to form the siege ofraeuse, B. c »14. (Liv. xxiv. 21—33.) Thetrprise proved far more arduous than the Roman■■irrul seems to have anticipated. He established<»'i p, as the Carthaginians had repeatedly done, height of the Olympieum ; but bis principalsets wen directed against the northern walls, in'trvhbuurh'iod of Hexapylum (the outlet of the* t iwards Leontini and Megara), as well asi-J>t the defences of Achradina from the sea. powerful fleet gave Marcellus the completenuuial of the sea, and he availed himself of thismas; mp his ships with powerful battering cn-f« wider the very walls which bordered the rocksVhrsdina; but all his efforts were baffled by thetror skill and science of Archimedes; his enginestbips were destroyed or sunk, and after repeated•^'fris. both by sea and land, he found himselfiprjjed to abandon all active assaults and con-the siege into a blockade. (Liv. xxiv. 33,34.)>u.-iEg the winter he left the camp and army at therpwum, under the command of T.Quinctius Cris-<a, while he himself took up his winter-quarters^tsbliahad a fortified camp at Leon, on the K. siden city. But he was unable to maintain a strictkade by sea, and the Carthaginians succeededfluently throwing in supplies, so that thekade was prolonged for more than two years;^Ureclius began to entertain little prospect ofn*, when in the spring of B.C. 212 an accidentw in liu way the opportunity of scaling the wallstight, at a place called by Livy the Portus Tro-uiu (evidently the little cove called ScalaCo) ; and having thus surprised the walls he'.'.iinstif master of the gate at Hexapylum, asas of a great part of the slope of Epipolae. But>tn og fi n of Kuryalua, at the angle of Epipolae,»; t.it erlurts, ar>J the walls of Achradina, whichrrtunoi iu separate fortifications, enabled the Syracusans to hold possession of that importantpart of the city, as well as of the island and fortressof Ortygia. The two quarters of Tycha and Nea-polis were, however, surrendered to him, and givenup to plunder, the citizens having stipulated onlyfor their lives ; and shortly after Philodemus, whocommanded the garrison of Euryalus, having nohopes of relief, surrendered that important post alsointo the hands of Marcellus. (Liv. xxv. 23—25.)The Roman general was now in possession of thewhole heights of Epipolae, and being secured fromattacks in the rear by the possession of Euryalus, hedivided his forces into three camps, and endeavouredwholly to blockade Achradina. At the same timeCrispinus still held the old camp on the hill of theOlympieum. (So. 26.) In this state of things avigorous effort was made by the Carthaginians toraise the siege: they advanced with a large armyunder Himilco and Hippocrates, and attacked thecamp of Crispinus; while Bomilcar, with a fleet of150 ships, occupied the Great Harbour, and tookpossession of the shore between the city and themouth of the Anapus, at the same time that Epi-cydes made a vigorous sally from Achradina againstthe lines of Marcellus. But they were repulsed atall points, and though they continued for some timeto maintain their army iu the immediate neighbour­hood of the city, it was soon attacked by a pestilence,arising from the marshy nature of the low groundsin which they were encamped, to which both Hip­pocrates and Himilco fell victims, with a great partof their troops. Bomilcar, also, who had quittedthe port with the view of obtaining reinforcementsfrom Carthage, never returned, and Epicydea, whohad gone out to meet him, abandoned the city to itsfate, and withdrew to Agrigentum. The defence ofSyracuse was now entrusted to the leaders of themercenary troops, and one of these, a Spaniardnamed Mericus, betrayed his post to Marcellus. Abody of Roman troops was landed in the night atDie extremity of the island, near the fountain ofArethusa, and quickly made themselves masters ofthe whole of Ortygia; while Marcellus, having at thesame time made a gener.il assault on Achradina,succeeded in carrying a portion of that quarter also.The remaining part of the city was now voluntarilysurrendered by the inhabitants; and Marcellus, aftertaking precautions to secure the royal treasures, andthe houses of those citizens who had been favourableto the Romans, gave up the whole city to be pillagedby his soldiers. Archimedes, who had contributedso much to the defence of the city, was accidentallyslain in the confusion. The plunder was said to beenormous; and the magnificent statues, pictures,and other works of art which were carried by Mar­cellus to Rome, to adorn his own triumph, are saidto have given the first impulse to that love of Greekart which afterwards became so prevalent among theRomans. (Liv. xxv. 26—31, 40; 1'lut. .Vorc. 14— 19 ; Diod. xxvi. Kr. 18—20.) From this time Syracuse sank into the ordinarycondition of a Roman provincial town; but it con­tinued to be the unquestionable capital of Sicily, andwas the customary residence of the Roman praetorswho were sent to govern the island, as well as ofone of the two quaestors who were charged with itsfinancial administration. Even in the days of Ciceroit is spoken of by that orator as "the greatest ofGreek cities, and the most beautiful of all cities."(Cic. Verr. iv. 52.) Its public buildings had ap­parently suffered little, if at all, from its capture by 3 Y 3