OCR Output AN. 181 1148.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Philistines also were greatly afraid of the arkcoming to the Israelites: however the eventdid not prove agreeable to the expectation ofeither side; but when the battle was joined,that victory which the Hebrews expected,was gained by the Philistines; and what de­feat the Philistines were afraid of, fell to thelot of the Israelites; and thereby they foundthat they had put their trust in the ark invain; for they were presently beaten, as soonas they came to a close fight with their ene­mies, and lost about thirty thousand men;among whom were the sons of the high-priest.The ark also was carried away by their ene­mies. When the news of this defeat came toShiloh, with that of the capture of the ark,(for a certain young man, a Benjamite, whowas in the action, came as a messenger thi­ther,) the whole city was full of lamentations.And Eli the high-priest, who sat upon a highthrone at one of the gates, heard theirmournful cries; and supposed that somestrange thing had befallen his family. So hesent for the young man, and when he under­stood what had happened in the battle, he wasnot much grieved as to his sons, or what wastold him about the army; as having previouslyknown by divine revelation that those thingswould happen, and having himself declared * From an. 1188 to 1148 B.C. them beforehand. For what sad things comeunexpectedly, they distress men the most; butas soon as he heard the ark was carried cap­tive by their enemies, he was very muchgrieved at it, because it fell out quite differ­ently from what he expected; so he fell downfrom his throne, and died; having Kved ninety-eight years, and retained the governmentforty.* On the same day, the wife of his son Phi-neas died also; as not able to survive themisfortune of her husband. For they told herof her husband's death as she was in labour.However she bare a son at seven months, towhom they gave the namef Icabod; whichname signifies disgrace; and this because thearmy received disgrace at this time. Now Eli was the first of the family ofIthamar, the other son of Aaron, that had thegovernment; for the family of Eleazar offici­ated as high-priest at first; the son still re­ceiving that honour from the father, Eleazarbequeathed it to his son Phineas, after whomAbiezer his son took the honour, and de­livered it to his son whose name was Bukki;his son next received it; after whom Eli, ofwhom we have been speaking, had the priest­hood; and so had his posterity until the timeof Solomon's reign; but then it was resumedby the posterity of Eleazar. t 1 Sam. iv. 21. Qq2