OCR Output SPOLETIUM. STABIAE. 1033 • b. c. 217, just after the battle at the Lakev tikqua, Hannibal advanced to the gates of f»*tinm, and made an assault upon the city, butu repulsed with so much vigour by the colonists,m be drew off his forces and crossed the Apen-i:i into Picenum. (Lit. xxii. 9.) A few yearsser (B.C. 209) Spotetium was one of the colonies i--fi distinguished themselves by their fidelity andal is tbs service of Rome, at the most trying - nt of the war. ( Id. xxvii. 10.) For somea after this we hear but little of Spoletium,•neb it seems to have been a flourishing muni-fui town. In ii. c. 107 it was selected by theas the place of confinement of Gcntius, king ulvria, and his sons; but the citizens declined tok» charge of them, and they were transferred toiriam (Liv. xlv. 43). But in the civil war betweeninns and Sulla it suffered severely. A battle ■ ftught beneath its walls in b. c. 82, betweensnprius and Crassus, the generals of Sulla, andmrutas, the lieutenant of Carbo, in which the latter ■ defeated, and compelled to take refuge in theif. (Appian, B. C. i. 89.) After the victory of[Us, spoletium was one of the places severelyBulled, all its territory being con6scated, appa-Mlj for the settlement of a military colony. (Flor. ■ SI; Zampt, de Colon, p. 254.) Florus callsisfetium at this time one of the "municipia IUliae^tdisshna;'* but this is probably a rhetoricalV£f ration. Cicero, however, terms it, in referencei tomewhat earlier period, " colonia Latina inani* nrma et illustris." (Cic pro Balb. 21.) Itume a rnunicipium (in common with the otherUs colonies) by virtue of the Lex Julia; and doeslippear to have sub.se/juenily obtained the title ofv..ir. though it received a fresh accession of set-m (Lib. Col p. 225; Zumpt, I. c.) It is againniiuQcd during the Perusian War (b.c. 41), asWing a retreat to Muitalius Plancus when he« defeated by Octavian (Appian, B. C. v. 33);i ttnxa to hare continued under the Empire toi fi"tiri*hing municipal town, though rarely men-mi in history. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14.Hi Ptoliii. 1. § 54; Orell. In$cr. 1100, 1103,C6.) U was at or near Spoletium that the em-*' Amu lianas was encamped, when the deathtii rivals Gallus and Volusianus gave himfp'Tsry possession of the empire; and it was there • that he was himself put to death by his soldiers,ffi reign of only three months. (Vict. EpiL 31.)"JeUani is again mentioned during the Gothicft, after the fall of the Western Empire, whenni taken by the Gothic king Total* (Procop.f*. iii. 12), who partially destroyed its fortifica-»; bat these were restored by Narscs {lb. iv.)• It was at this time regarded as a strongcms, and was a place of importance on that ac-nt> Under t lie Lombards it became the capital • duchy (about a. D. 570), the dukes of whicht rendered themselves altogether independent ofLombard kings, and established their authorityr s considerable part of Central Italy. The of Spoieto did not cease to exist till the 12thtan. >f <le;ium was not situated on the Via Flammia,ferly to called. That line of highroad proceededu> Xamia to Mevania {Bevogna) by a more directtr*e through Carsulac, thus leaving on the right■i the two important towns of Interamna and<*>tiam. (Strab. v. p. 227.) We learn fromaim that this continued to be the line of the Flaminian Way as late as the time of Vespasian (Tac.Hist. iii. 60); but at a later period the road throughInteramna and Spoletium cume into general use,and is the one given in the Itineraries, {Itin. Ant.p. 125; Itin. flier, p. 613.) This must havefollowed very nearly the same line with the modernroad from Home to Pervgia, which crosses a steepmountain pass, called Monte Somma, between Spo­ieto and Terni; and this was probably the reason thatthis line was nvoided in the first instance by the ViaFlaminia. But there must always have been abranch road to Spoletium. and from thence, as welearn from Suetonius {Vetp. 1), another branchled to Nursia in the upper valley of the Nar. Spoltto is still a tolerably flourishing place, withthe rank of a city. It has several Roman remains,among which the most interesting is an arch com­monly called the Porta dAtmibale, as being sup­posed to be the gate of the city from whence thatgeneral was repulsed. There is, however, no foun­dation for this: and it is doubtful whether the archwas a gateway at all. Some remains of an ancienttheatre are still visible, and portions of two or threeancient temples are built into the walls of modernchurches. A noble aqueduct, by which the city isstill supplied with water, though often ascribed tothe Romans, is not really earlier than the time ofthe Lombard dukes. Some remains of the palaceinhabited by the latter, but first built by Theodoric,arc also visible in the citadel which crowns the hillabove the town. [E. H. B.] SPO'RADES (Xwop&ts), or the "Scattered," agroup of islands in the Aegaean, Cretan, andCarjtathian seas, so called because they were scatteredthroughout these seas, in opposition to the Cyclades,which lay round Delos in a circle. But the dis­tinction between these groups was not accuratelyobserved, and we find several islands sometimesascribed to the Cyclades, and sometimes to theSporades. The islands usually included among theCyclades are given under that article. [Vol. I. p.723.] Scylax makes two groups of Cyclades; buthis southern group, which he places off the coast ofLaconia and near Crete, ore the Sporades of otherwriters: in this southern group Scylax specifies.Melos,Cimolos, 01iaros,Sicinos,Thera, Anaplic, Auty-palaca (p. 18, cd. Hudson). Strabo first mentionsamong the Sporades the islands lying off Crete,—Then, Anaphe, Therasia, Ios, Sicintw, Lagusa, Pbo-legandros (x. pp. 484, 485). Then, after de­scribing the Cyclades, he resumes his enumerationof the Sporades,—Amorgos, Lehinthos, Lena, Pat-mot, the Cora&siae, Icaria. Astypalaea, Telos,Chalcia,Nisyros, Casos, the Calydnae (x. pp. 487—489). Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23) gives a still longer liltAn account of each island is given under its ownname. STABA'TIO, in Gallia, a name which occurs in theTable on a road from Vienna ( Vienne) past Cularo(Grenoble) to the Alpis Cottia {Mont Genevre).Stabatio is placed between Durotincuin and AlpisCottia, D'Anville fixed Stabatio at Monettier orMonetier near Briancon. [G. L.] STA'BIAE (ZraSuu: Etk Stabianus; Ru. nearCiutell 'a Mare), & city of Campania, situated at thofoot of the Mons Lactarius, about 4 miles S. of Pom­peii,and a mile from the sea. The first mention of itin history occurs during the Social War (b. c. 90),when it was taken by the Samnitc general C. Papius(Appian, B. C. i. 42). But it was retaken by Sullathe following year (u. c. 89), aud entirely destroyed