OCR Output 494 OROXTES. OKXL clearly to mean that, while the other Cynurians be­came Perioeci, the Orneatae continued independent,—an interpretation which is in accordance with theaccount of ThucydiJcs. (Miiller, AeginetkOf p. 48,.soq., Dorians, iii. 4. § 2; Arnold, ad Tkttc. v. G7.) With respect to the site of Orneae we learn fromPaosanias (v. 25. § 5) tlint it was situated on theconBnes "I* Phliaaia and Si<y<>nia, at the distance of120 stadia from Argos, being GO stadia from Lyr-ceia, which was also 60 stadia from Argos. Strabo(viii. p. 382) says that Orneae was situated on ariver of the same name above the plain of the Sicy-ouians; for the other passage of Strabo (viii. p. 578),which states that Orneae lay between Corinth andSicyon, and that it was not mentioned by Homer, isprobably an interpolation. (See Kramer's Strabo.vol. ii. p. 186.) Orneae stood on the northern ofthe two roads, which led from Argos to Mantineia.This northern road was called Climax, and followedthe coarse of the [nachus. [Argos, p. 201.] Rosssupposes Orneae to have been situated on the river,■which flows from the south by the village of Lionliand which helps to form the western arm of theAsopus. Leake places it too far to the east on thedirect road from Argos to Phlius. (Ross, ReisenimPelopormes, p. 135; comp. Leake, A/oreo, vol. ii. p.351, vol. iii. p. 414.) 0RN1 ("Opvoi), a town of Thrace mentionedonlv bv Hierocles (p. 632). [T. H. D.l OR NI AC I ('OpviaKut, Ptol. ii. 6. §32). a tribe ofthe Astures in Hisptnta Tarraconen&U. Their chieftown was Intercatia. [T. H.D.] ORNI'THON POLIS ('OpWoW *6\is), a cityof the Sidonians, according to Scylai (ap. Beland,J'a I a est. p. 431). It is placed more exactly byStrabo between Tyre and Si Jon (p. 758). l'linymentions together " Sarepta et Ornithon oppida etSiJon" (v. 19.) Reland suggests that it may be"Tarnegola superior," which the Talmud placesabove Caesarea; Tarnegola in Hebrew being equiva­lent to the Callus of Latin = upi'iOa in Greek.(Palaest, p. 916.) Dr. Robinson, following Pococke,conjectures that it may be represented by an ancientsite on the shore of the Plux-nieiau plain, where lienoticed "the traces of a former site called 'Adlan,consisting of contused heaps of stones, with severalold wells." There are also 14 many sepulchralgrottoes, hewn out of the hard limestone rock," inthe precipitous base of the projecting mountainwhich here approaches the coast,—furnishing clearindications of an ancient city in the vicinity.{Bib. Res. vol. iii. p. 411, and note 2; I'ococke,Observations, vol. ii. p. 84.) [G.W.] OROANDA, a town in the mountains of PUidia,near the south-western shore of lake Trogitis (Liv.xxxviii. 37. 39; Plin, v. 24). From this town tirewhole district derived the name of OroandicuS tract OS,the inhabitants of which, called Oroandenses or Ort>andici ( 'Opoav&ixoi or 'OpoavBtts), [josseSM'd, be.-.idesthe chief town Oroauda. also Misthia and Pappa(Liv. xxxviii. 18, 19; 1'olyb. xxii. 25; Ptol. v. 4.§12). Hamilton (Research?.*, i. p. 478) believesthat the ruins In; found on the sdojte of a hill nearlake J-.'yerdir, nmy mark the site ol Oroanda: but itwould seem that its remains must l>e looked for alittle further east. [L. S.] OROATIS. [Aitosis] OKO'BIAE ('Op6€iai), a town on the westerncoast of Euboea, between Aedepsus and Aegae,which possessed an oracle of Apollo Selinuntius.(Strab. x. p. 445, comp. ix. p. 405.) The town was partly destroyed by an earthquake v*\ ainundation of the sea in n. c. 426. (Tbuc. i,i *9.)This town seems to be the one mentioned bj Stt-pbanus under the name of Orcpe (*Op<nn)), de­scribes it as " a city "f Euboea, having a tptt nvnowncd temple of Apollo." (Steph. B. *. r. Kopwj.)There are some remains of the walls of OrViaeslRorit's, which word is only a corruption uf the svrieiit name. (Leake, yorthern Gruxe vuL ii,176.) ORO'BII, a tribe of Cisalpine Ganls. mesAonly by Pliny (iii. 17. s. 21). upon the infCato, who said that liergornum and Commabeen founded by them, as well as Forom Vwhich lie most mean the Qsmfish townceded the Roman settlement of that name,original abode, according to Cato, was at scalled liarra, situated high up in the rooibut be professed himself unable to j*>ini oatorigin and descent. The statement tlwere a Greek people, advanced by Corneliiander (ap. plin. I. c), is evidently i mererent e from the name, which was probablyor distorted with that very view. [K. H. B. OnOIIlS. or OltlllS (:OpoSis)t a rivtrrfS'nensis in Gallia. Ptolemy (ii. 10. 5 2) pisesoutlet of the Orobis between the mouth of the(Audt:) and the Aiauris (Hvrault), which. Ithat it is tiie Orbe. In Sirabo's text (It. p.it is written Obris, which Oroskurd unneecorrects, for Orbis and Obris were probablydifferently, and it ;-ecms that Obrie is the «reading in Mela (ii. 5, ed. J. Vossius, note),says that the Orbis H >ws pa>t Baeterrae (ScsssJand S:rabo also places Baeterrae on the Orbis,the Om Maritima (v. 590) the nameThe Orbe rUcs in the Ceitrines in thepart of the department of //erault, and has awinding course in the upper part. It ismiles lon^. [G. Ll OROLAUMJM, in the north part of Gtl|placed by the Autouine Itin. on a road fromcortorum (Reims) to Trier. It is placed bbetween Epois^uin (fptsrh) and Andean]which IVAnville snppo>es to be /Tjwhich lie means Ecktcrnach: others plaeedethanna ab-ait „4»fren. The naine ArUrnrepresents Orolaannin, where lioman remains**!i.s said, have been found. Avion is in the doLuxemburg. [G. OROMARSACI, a people of North Galfia,position is thus described by Pliny (iv. c.is proceeding in his description from thesouthward-,;—"TVinde Menapii, Moriuitjuncto jiago qui Cessoriacus vooitur.* latext the name is written Orumaiisaci. and>ays that the MSS. have OrumarsacL Theotherwise unknown. D'AnviUe Mippotea Iname Oro-uiarsaci is represented by the ta tract of country between Calais and Gnwhich is Mark or Merle, and borders 00 tlonnvu, in which the pagus Gessorwus wsksouiAci M.] This is mere guess, but it iswe can have. [t] ORONTES ('OpoVrns). the most renownof Syria, used by the poet Juvenal for the"in Tiberim defluxit OraMes." (Juv.original name, according to Strabo,(Tutpiiv), and his account both of itslater names, folluws his description of The river Oroutes lljwa near the