OCR Output 386 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. essential responsibility over from the master to the manager.We estimate Sulla's importance much too highly, or ratherwe dispose of those terrible proscriptions, ejections, andrestorations—for which there never could be and never wasany compensation—on far too easy terms, when we regardthem as the work of a bloodthirsty tyrant whom accidenthad placed at the head of the state. These and the ter­rorism of the restoration were the deeds of the aristocracy,and Sulla was nothing more in the matter than, to use thepoet's expression, the executioner's axe following theconscious thought as its unconscious instrument. Sullacarried out that part with rare, in fact superhuman, perfec­tion; but within the limits, which it laid down for him, hisworking was not only grand but even useful. Never hasany aristocracy deeply decayed and decaying still furtherfrom day to day, such as was the Roman aristocracy of thattime, found a guardian so willing and able as Sulla to wieldfor it the sword of the general and the pen of the legislatorwithout any regard to the gain of power for himself. Thereis no doubt a difference between the case of an officer whorefuses the sceptre from public spirit and that of one whothrows it away from ennui; but, so far as concerns the totalabsence of political selfishness—although, it is true, in thisrespect only—Sulla deserves to be named side by side withWashington.Value of But the whole country—and not the aristocracy merely— the Sullan was more indebted to him than posterity is willing to con­fess. Sulla definitely terminated the Italian revolution, inso far as it was based on the disabilities of individual lessprivileged districts as compared with others of better rights,and, by compelling himself and his party to recognize theequality of the rights of all Italians in presence of the law,he became the real and final author of the full politicalunity of Italy—a gain, which was not too dearly purchasedeven by so many troubles and streams of blood. Sulla how­ever did more. For more than half a century the power ofRome had been declining and anarchy had been her perma­nent condition: for the government of the senate with theGracchan constitution was anarchy, and the government ofCinna and Carbo was a yet far worse illustration of the ab­sence of a master-hand (the sad image of which is mostclearly reflected in that equally confusedand unnatural leaguewith the Samnites), the most indistinct, most intolerable. constitu­tion.