OCR Output KASAVA. 401 NAUCRATIS. k '.) Tbar modem representatives are equally^•fktiiiV, u the traveller Bruce, who wasilprncknl on their coast, experienced. (Brace,Jmrk, Iniradwtian, to!, i. p. 131.) The Nasu-rsn. however, were breeders of cattle, since Hero-•tt Inhns os (ir. 172) that in the summer sea-si, "tbrj lore their herds on the coast and go uptoaspk to gather the date harvest"—the palms4 (hat taaii being numerous, large, and fruitful.id ien, min, in existing races we find corre-dnra with the habits of the Nasamones. For&f to modern travellers, the people who dwelltastef £er*<i, gather the dates in the plainfive days' journey from Augila. (Pro-Afrie. At$ociation, 1790, cb. x.) the Nasamones as practisingsacrificing at the graves ofen) swearing by their manes. Theyon the widest scale, or rather heldin common ; and their principal diet,ata,tu dried locusts reduced to powder and'wan milk intoa kind of cake—polenta. Theiraf aim a precious stone called by Plinyi 64) and Solinus (c. 27) Nasamonitis; red hue with black veins,tatroduces his description of this tribe,story relating to the knowledgeby the ancients of the sources of the Nile.n(E 32) that certain Kasaxnones came from(MoBrhood of Cyrene, and made an expedition•V) aterior of Libya; and that they exploredJar as the kingdom of Timbuctoo, isby his account of their adventures,through the inhabited region, theyinfested by wild beasts .■e was westward through the desertfinally they were taken prisoners byof diminutive stature, and carried to agreat river flowing from W. to E.in crocodiles. This river, which theto be the upper part of the Nile,frefaaUy the Nicer. The origin of the"lies in the fact that the Nasamones, a, acted as guides to the caravanscrossed the Libyan continent fromr Carthage to Aethiopia, Meroe, andBed Sea. [W. B. D.] (Saeata. al, NaWafl, Ptol. iv. 2. §aesariensis, the month of£. of Saldae. This river of Borjeiyahyof rivulets which fall into it]( as the banks are rockyoccasion iu inflations in the winter._ (0.) [E.B.J.]Kmrin Movrts.](Hinvt, al. MaitrKowos jiirrpovoAis),fky of Arabia Felix, in long. 81° 15',« «f Ptolemy. (Ptol. *i 7. § 35.) takes it to be Naaa of 1 'liny, the chieftki Aaatbei, who occupied the present dis-"•ta«L (Geography of Arabia, Tol. ii. pp. [G. W.] CaraTajLj(Ni^.o.). m Gallia- Ptolemy namesuV Lena, Tullum ( Tout) aod Nasium,imtm 20 minutes farther south than■ Buy minutes east. Both thesefalae, as the I tins, show, fur NasiumPttMril ran (Reims) to Tullum;«eat of Toul, and it is not south.■Ira Kaaiom on the Ornain or Ornez, a branch of the Maas; and its name existsin Naix or Araw, above Ligny. The Antoniue Itin.makes it 16 leagues from Nasium to Tullum. TheTable places Ad Fines between Na.sium and Tullum,14 leagues from Nasium and b\ from Tullum. [As 1. L.] to Ad Fines, see Finks, No. 14.j [G NASUS. [Okhadak.] NATISO (NoTiVftj*', Strab.: Natisone), a riverof Venetia, which flowed under the walls of Aqui­leia, on the E. side of the city, and is noticed inconnection with that city by all the geographers aswell as by several other ancient writers. (PHn. ni.18. 6. 22; Strab. v. p. 214; Mela, ii. 4. § 3; Ptol.iii. 1. § 26; Ammian. xxi. 12. § 8; Jomand. Get,42.) Pliny speaks of the Natiso together with ihoTurrus (Natiso cum Turro), as flowing by the co­lony of Aquileia. At the present day the Natisone,a considerable stream which descends from the Alpsnear Cividak> falls into the 7'orre (eridently theTurrus of Pliny), and that again into the Jsonzo;so that neither of them now flows by Aquileia; butit is probable that they have changed their course,which the low and marshy character of the countryrenders easy. A small stream, or rather canal, com­municating from Aquileia with the sea, is still calledNatUa; but it is clear that the Natissa of Jor-nandes, which he describes (/. c.) as flowing underthe walla of Aquileia, must be the far more impor­tant stream, now called the Natisone, as he tells usit had its sources in the Mons Picis, and it wouldbe vain to look for any mountains nearer than theAlps. Strabo (/. c.) also speaks of the Natiso asnavigable for ships of burden as far as Aquileia, 60stadia from the sea; a statement which renders itcertain that a considerable river must have flowedunder the walls of that city. [K. EL B.] NAVA, the river Nava in Tacitus (Hist, iv. 70)and in Ausonius (Mosella, v. 1) is the A'aAe, asmall stream which flows into the Rhine, on the leftbank jnst below Bingium (Bingen). [G. L-] NAVA'LIA or NABATIA (Nat/oA.o), t smallriver on the north-west coast of Germany (Tac.Hist. v. 26), either an eastern branch of the Rhine,at the mouth of which Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) placesthe fort Navalia, or some river in the country of theFrisians. [L. S.] NAVARI. [Neuri.] NAVARUM. [Nkuri.] NAUBARUM. [Neuri.] NAU'CRATIS (NadKooTi*, Herod, ii. 179;Strab. xvii. p. 801 ; Ptol. iv. & § 9; Callimach.Epigr. 41; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Steph. B. t. v.: Eth.fiavKparhtjs or Navft/xrnwT'ni), was originally anemporium for trade, founded by colonists from Mi­letus, in the Saitic nome of the Delta. It stoodupon the eastem bank of the Canopic arm ofthe Nile, which, from the subsequent importanceof Naucratis, was sometimes called the OstiumNaucraticum. (Plin. v. 10. s. 11.) There was, doubt­less, on the same she an older Aegyptiau town,the name of which has been lost in that of theGreek dockyard and haven. Naucratis first at­tained its civil and commercial eminence in thereign of Amasis (b. c. 550) who rendered it, as re­garded the Greeks, the Canton of Aegypt. Fromthe date of his reign until the Persian invasion, orperhaps even the founding of Alexandreia, Naucratispossessed a monopoly of the Mediterranean com­merce, for it was the only Deltaic harbour intowhich foreign vessels were permitted to enter; andif accident or stress of weather had driven them i> v