OCR Output 50 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. "the wives to their husbands; and show them, byxxxiv. « your generosity, of what friends they have ob-"stinately deprived themselves." The city wassaved by the virtue and authority of its conqueror;and when the Neapolitans returned to their houses,they found some consolation in the secret enjoymentof their hidden treasures. The Barbarian garrisoninlisted in the service of the emperor; Apulia andCalabria, delivered from the odious presence of theGoths, acknowledged his dominion; and the tusksof the Calydonian boar, which were still shown atBeneventum, are curiously described by the historianof Belisarius.Vitiges, The faithful soldiers and citizens of Naples had Italy,° expected their deliverance from a prince, who re-AugL5-' mained the inactive and almost indifferent spectatora. d. 540. of their ruin. Theodatus secured his person withinthe walls of Rome, while his cavalry advanced fortymiles on the Appian way, and encamped in thePomptine marshes; which, by a canal of nineteenmiles in length, had been recently drained and con­verted into excellent pastures*. But the principalforces of the Goths were dispersed in Dalmatia,Venetia, and Gaul; and the feeble mind of theirking was confounded by the unsuccessful event of adivination, which seemed to presage the downfal ofhis empire. The most abject slaves have arraignedthe guilt or weakness of an unfortunate master. Thecharacter of Theodatus was rigorously scrutinized bya free and idle camp of Barbarians, conscious of theirprivilege and power: he was declared unworthy ofhis race, his nation, and his throne; and their ge­ * The Decennovium is strangely confounded by Cluvierius (tom. Ii. p. 1007)with the river Uteris. It was in truth a canal of nineteen miles, from ForumAppii to Terracina, on which Horace embarked in the night. The Decennoviumwhich is mentioned by Lucan, Dion Cassius, and Cassiodorius, has been suf­ficiently ruined, restored, and obliterated (d'Anville, Analyse de 1'Italie, p.185, &c.).