OCR Output 43 LIVY. of two hundred sail. The business of Sicily was di­vided thus: the troops of Cannas were given to SextusCaesar; Marcus Valerius Laevinus (for he also wascontinued in authority) was to have the fleet of seventyships, which lay on the coast of that island. To thesewere joined the thirty ships which had been at Taren-tum the year before; and with this fleet of one hun­dred sail, if he thought proper, he was to pass overand make depredations on Africa. Publius Sulpicius,also, was continued in command for the year, that hemight hold the province of Macedonia and Greece withthe same fleet which he had before. With respect tothe two legions which remained in the city of Rome,no alteration was made. Leave was given for the con­suls to raise recruits, to complete the troops wherein.there was any deficiency of numbers. Twenty-one le­gions were employed this year in the service of theRoman empire. A charge was given to Publius Lici-nius Varus, city pretor, to repair thirty old ships ofwar, which lay at Ostia, and to furnish twenty newones, with their full complement of men, that he mighthave a fleet of fifty sail to guard the sea coasts in theneighborhood of Rome. Cains Calpurnius was for­bidden to remove his army from Arretium before thearrival of his successor. Both he and Tubero wereordered to be particularly watchful on that side, lestany new schemes might be formed. 23. The pretors went to the provinces, but the con­suls were detained by business respecting religion;for they could not readily effect the expiation of se­veral prodigies which had been reported. From Cam­pania accounts were brought that two temples at Ca­pua, those of Fortune and Mars, and several tombs,were struck by lightning; and at Cumw, mice gnawedsome gold in the temple of Jupiter; so apt is supersti­tious weakness to introduce the deities into the mosttrivial occurrences; that at Casinum, a very largeswarm of bees settled in the forum; at Ostia, a walland gate were struck by lightning; at Caere, a vultureflew into the temple of Jupiter; and that at Vulsinii