OCR Output 3A. THE HISTORY B O o K diverfity in their views, yet all concurred in wifhingi^-r-.__. for a king, for they had not yet rafted the fweets ofliberty. The fenate now began to fear, left as, the fen1timents of many of the neighbouring ftates were veryunfriendly towards them, feme foreign power mightattack them, while the ftate was cieftitute of a go­vernment, and the army deftitute of a commander.Every one therefore was defirous that there fhouldbe fome head, but no one party could be brought tothink of giving way to another. In this difficulty,the fenators fhared the government among them-felves; forming, out of their number, which con-Cfted of an hundred, ten decades, with one prefi-dent in each, who were to have the direction ofpublic affairs. Each ten governed jointly; the pre-fident alone had the Li&ors and other badges offbvereignty. The time of each holding the go.,vernment was limited to five days, and the admi-niftration went to them all in rotation. In thismanner a year paffed without a king; and that in-Y. R. terval, from this circumftance, was called an Inter­file. regnum; which term is ftill applied to fimilar714. interruptions of the regular government. By thistime, the commons began to murmur, alleging thapflavery was multiplied on them; that they had anhundred mafters fet over them inftead of one; and itbecame evident that they would no longer be i^itisfi-£d without a king, or without one chofen by them-• felves. The fenators, perceiving that fuch fchemeswere in agitation, judged it prudent to make a volun­tary offer of what they could not much longer retain:yet while they gratified the people in furrenderingto them the fovereign power, they took care not togive up a larger fhare of privilege than they ftillkept in their own hands; for they pafft'd a decree,that, when the people fhould elec t a king, thatelection fhould be valid, provided the iVnate ap­proved their choice. And, to this day, the fameright is claimed with refpect to the enacting of laws, and