OCR Output CIV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 107 used to be open to even all foreigners that came to worshipthere. We have, indeed, come in great haste to you, and toa war against our own countrymen: and the reason why wehave made such haste is this, that we may preserve that free足dom which you are so unhappy as to betray. You have pro足bably been guilty of the like crimes against those whom youkeep in custody, and have, I suppose, collected together thelike plausible pretences against them also that you make useof against us: after which you have gotten the mastery ofthose within the temple, and keep them in custody, while theyare only taking care of the public affairs. You have alsoshut the gates of the city in general against nations that arethe most nearly related to you: and while you give such in足jurious commands to others, you complain that you havebeen tyrannized over by them; and fix the name of unjustgovernors upon such as are tyrannized over by yourselves.Who can bear this your abuse of words, while they have aregard to the contrariety of your actions ? unless you meanthis, that those Idumeans do now exclude you out of yourmetropolis, whom you exclude from the sacred offices of yourown country. One may, indeed, justly complain of those thatare besieged in the temple, that when they had courageenough to punish those tyrants which they call eminent men,and free from any accusations, because of their being yourcompanions in wickedness, they did not begin with you, andthereby cut off beforehand the most dangerous parts of thistreason. But if these men have been more merciful than thepublic necessity required, we that are Idumeans will preservethis house of God, and will fight for our common country,and will oppose by war as well those that attack them fromabroad, as those that betray them from within. Here willwe abide before the walls in our armor, until either the Ro足mans grow weary in waiting for you, or you become friendsto liberty, and repent of what you have done against it." 5. And now did the Idumeans make an acclamation towhat Simon had said, but Jesus went away sorrowful, asseeing that the Idumeans were against all moderate counsels,and that the city was besieged on both sides. Nor, indeed,