OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the verdure of the earth, and the temperature of theXVIH" air; the senses were gratified with harmonious soundsand aromatic odours; and the peaceful grove wasconsecrated to health and joy, to luxury and love.The soldier and the philosopher wisely avoided thetemptation of this sensual paradise; where pleasure,assuming the character of religion, imperceptiblydissolved the firmness of manly virtue. But thegroves of Daphne continued for many ages to enjoythe veneration of natives and strangers; the privilegesof the holy ground were enlarged by the munificenceof succeeding emperors; and every generation addednew ornaments to the splendour of the temple.Neglect and When Julian, on the day of the annual festival, profanation J . of Daphne. hastened to adore the Apollo of Daphne, his devotionwas raised to the highest pitch of eagerness and im­patience. His lively imagination anticipated thegrateful pomp of victims, of libations, and of incense;a long procession of youths and virgins, clothed inwhite robes, the symbol of their innocence; and thetumultuous concourse of an innumerable people. Butthe zeal of Antioch was diverted, since the reign ofChristianity, into a different channel. Instead ofhecatombs of fat oxen sacrificed by the tribes of awealthy city, to their tutelar deity, the emperor com­plains that he found only a single goose, provided atthe expense of a priest, the pale and solitary inha­bitant of this decayed temple*. The altar was de­serted, the oracle had been reduced to silence, andthe holy ground was profaned by the introduction ofChristian and funeral rites. After Babylas (a bishopof Antioch, who died in prison in the persecution ofDecius) had rested near a century in his grave, hisbody, by the order of the Caesar Gallus, was trans­ported into the midst of the grove of Daphne. A • Julian (Misopogon, p. 361,362.) discovers his own character with thatnaivete, that unconscious simplicity. which always constitutes genuine humour.