OCR Output AN. 43.] 519 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and got together an army, partly of Arabs,and partly of his own countrymen. How­ever Malichus being one of great cunning,denied that he had laid any snares for him;and made his defence with an oath, both tohimself and his sons: and said that whilePhasaelus had a garrison in Jerusalem, andHerod had the weapons of war in his custody,he could never have a thought of any suchthing. So Antipater perceiving the distressthat Malichus was in, was reconciled to him;and made an agreement with him. Thiswas when Marcus was president of Syria,who yet perceiving that this Malichus wasmaking a disturbance in Judea, proceededso far, that he had almost killed him: butstill, at the intercession of Antipater, hesaved him. Antipater, however, little thought that bysaving Malichus, he had preserved his ownmurderer. For now Cassius and Marcus hadgot together an army, and entrusted the en­tire care of it with Herod, and made himgeneral of the forces of Coelesyria, and gavehim a fleet of ships, and an army of horse­men and footmen; and promised that, afterthe war was over, they would make him kingof Judea. For a war was already begun be­tween Antony and the younger Caesar. Butas Malichus was most afraid of Antipater, hetook him out of the way: and by the offer ofmoney persuaded the butler of Hyrcanus,with whom they were both to feast, to killhim by poison.* This being done, and hehaving armed men with him, settled the af­fairs of the city. But when Antipater's sons,Herod and Phasaelus, were acquainted withthis conspiracy against their father, and hadindignation at it, Malichus denied all; andutterly disclaimed any knowledge of themurder. And thus died Antipater; a manthat had distinguished himself for piety, andjustice, and love to his country. And where­as Herod resolved immediately to revengehis father's death, and was coming uponMalichus with an army for that purpose; theeldest of his sons, Phasaelus, thought it bestrather to get this man into their hands bypolicy, lest they should appear to begin acivil war in the country. So he accepted ofMalichus's defence for himself, and pretend- * An. 43. ed to believe him that he had no hand in theviolent death of Antipater his father: buterected a fine monument for him. Herodalso went to Samaria; and when he foundthem in great distress, he revived their spi­rits, and composed their differences. A short time after this, Herod, upon theapproach of a festival, came with his soldiersinto the city: whereupon Malichus was alarm­ed, and persuaded Hyrcanus not to permithim to come into the city. Hyrcanus com­plied: and for a pretence of excluding himalledged, that a rout of strangers ought notto be admitted when the multitude weretpurifying themselves. But Herod had littleregard to the messengers that were sent tohim, and entered the city in the night time,and affrighted Malichus. Yet did he remitnothing of his former dissimulation; but weptfor Antipater, and bewailed him as a friendof his, with a loud voice. But Herod and hisfriends thought it proper not openly to con­tradict Malichus's hypocrisy; but to givehim tokens of mutual friendship, in order toprevent his suspicion of them. However, Herod sent an account of hisfather's murder to Cassius; who knowingwhat sort of man Malichus was, as to hismorals, sent him back word, that he shouldrevenge his father's death; and also sent pri­vately to the commanders of his army atTyre, with orders to assist in the executionof a very just design. Now when Cassiushad taken Laodicea, they all went togetherto him, and carried him garlands and money,and Herod thought that Malichus might bepunished while he was there. But he wassomewhat apprehensive of the thing, and de­signed to make some great attempt; and be­cause his son was then a hostage at Tyre, hewent to that city, and resolved to steal himaway privately, and to march thence intoJudea; and as Cassius was in haste to marchagainst Antony, he thought to bring the coun­try to revolt, and to procure the governmentfor himself. But Providence opposed hiscounsels; and Herod, being a shrewd man,and perceiving what his intention was, senta servant thither beforehand, in appearanceindeed to get a supper ready; (for he hadsaid before, that he would feast them all t See John xi. 55.