OCR Output 280 MARSES. MARSI. vol. i. pp. 357—361. The inscriptions are col­lected by Mommsen, /. Ii. X. pp. 290—294.)The little river Ciotenco, which flows into the lakeclose to tlie site of the ancient city, is probably thestream called by the ancients PiTONirs, concerningwhich they related many marvels. [FccmusLacks.] Dionvsius mentions (i. 14) a town called Maru-vium (Mapowsi') among the ancient settlements ofthe Aborigines in the neighbourhood of Keate, whichis certainly distinct from the above, but is otherwisewhollv unknown. [Aborigines.] [K. H. B.] MAKSKS. [Bauvi-onia, p. 362.] MARSI (Mapooi: Adj. Mooo-ikoi, Marsieus), anancient nation of Central Italy, who inhabited aninland and mountainous district around the basin ofthe lake Fucinus, where they bordered on thePeligni towards the K., on the Sabines and Vestinito the N. and on tbe Aequians, Hernicans, andVolsnans, to the W. and S. There can be no doubtthat they were, in common with the other inhabitantsof the upland valleys of the central Apennines, a raceof Sabine origin; though we have no direct testimonyto this effect. Indeed the only eipress statementwhieh we find concerning their descent is that whichrepresents them as sprung from a son of Circe,obviously a mere mythological fable arising fromtheir peculiar customs. (Plin. vii. 2; Solin. 2. § 27.)Another tradition, equally fabulous but obscurelyknown to us, seems to have ascribed to them aLvdian origin, and derived their name from Marsyas.(tielliamu.; op. rim. iii. 12. s. 17; Sil. Ital. viii. 503.)But the close connection of the four nations of theMarsi, Marrucini, Peligni and Vestini, can leave noreasonable doubt of their common origin: and theSabine descent of the Peligni at least is clearlyattested. [Pkuoni.] It may bo added that theMarsi arc repeatedly mentioned by the Roman poetsin a manner which, without distinctly affirming it,certainly seems to imply their connection with theSabine race (Hor. F.pod. 17. 29; Juv. iii. 169; Virg.Gtorg. ii. 167.) That the Marsi and the Marruciniwere closely related is sufficiently evident from theresemblance of their names, which are itt fact onlytwo tonus of the same; the old form Marrubii orJIarruvii. retained by Virgil (Aim. vii. 750) as thename of the people, as well as preserved in that oftheir capital city, Marmbiiun, lieing the connectinglink between the two. (Niebuhr, vol.i. p. 100.) Thisconnection seems to have been already perceived byCato (ap. Prucian. ix. p. 871), though he mixed itup with a strange etymological fable. But we liaveno historical account, or even tiadition, of the originor separation of these closely connected tribes, whichappear in history together with the Peligni andVestini, as nearly related, but still distinct, nations. The llarsi are first noticed in Roman history inB. c. 340, at which time they, ns well as the Peligni.were on friendly terms with the Romans, and granteda free passage to tlie consuls who were proceedingwith their armies through Samnium into Campania.(Liv, viii. 6.) At the commencement of the .SecondSatnnite War they appear to have remained neutral;and even when their kinsmen and allies the Vestiniwere assailed by tbe Boman amis, they did not, ashad been expected, take up arms in their defence.(Id. viii. 29.) It was not till B.c. 308 that we firstfind them engaged iu hostilities with Rome, and wehave no explanation of the circumstances which tlwninduced them to take part with the Sammies. (Id.ix. 41.) It is indeed singular that while Livy notices this campaign as memorable from its being the firs:occasion on which the Romans were opposed to theMarsians, Diodorus gives a wholly different acconnl.and represents the two nations as in alliance againstthe Samnites. (Mod. xr. 44.) There is, however,every probability that the account given by Livy isthe more correct one, as we find shortly after (n r.304) a special treaty concluded with tbe M«r»i.Marrncini, and Peligni, immediately after the defeatof the Aequians. (Liv. ix. 45; Died. xi. 101.) Buta few years later (n. c. 301) the Marsi again tookup arms (this time apparently single.handed) tooppose the foundation of t he Roman colony at CarseoK,on the immediate frontiers of their territory. Theywere, however, easily defeated; three of their towns.Plestina, Milionia,and Fresilia,wcre taken; and theywere compelled to purchase peace by the cession ofa part of their territory. (Liv.jX. 3.) With thisexception, they obtained favourable terms, and theformer treaty was renewed. From this time the Marsi. as well as their con­federate tribes, the Marnicini, Peligni, and Vestini,became the faithful and constant allies of Rome, andoccupied a prominent position among the '* s^oi"whoso contingents bore so important a share in theRoman victories. The names of the four natkrjsare sometimes all mentioned, sometimes one or otherof them omitted; while the Krerttani, who ap;oar.though of Samnite origin, to have maintained closerpolitical relations with their northern neighbours,are, in consequence, often associated with them.Thus I'olybius, in enumerating the forces of theseveral Italian nntions in B. c 225, classes tbeMarsi, Marrucini, Vestini and Frtnlnni. under onehead, while he omits the name of the Peligni alto­gether. (Pol. ii. 24.) Dionysius, on the oilier hand,notices by name only the Marrucini, Peligni, andFrentani, am< r.g the Roman allies at tbe battle ofAsculum. omitting both the Marsi and Vestini;while Silius ltalicus enumerates them all among theRoman allies at the battle of Cannae. (Dionrs. rx.Fr. Didot; Sil. Ital. viii. 495—520.) Ennius alsoassociated together the "Marsa manus, rVftrnneohors, Vestina virum vis." (Eon. Fr. p. 150.)During tbe Second Punic War they suffered severelyfor their fidelity to Rome, their territory being re­peatedly ravaged by Hannibal. (Liv. xxii. 9. xxvi.11.) Nevertheless, towards the close of the somewar, they were among the foremost to offer volun­teers to the fleet and army of Scipio in B. c SOS.(Id. xxviii. 45.) Daring this peri.sl the Marsi appear to hiveearned a high reputation among the Roman allienfor their courage and skill in war; a character wbirathey shared in common with the neighbouring trit—«.Hut their chief celebrity was derived firm the pro­minent part which they took iu the great straggle eftltc Italian allies against Rome, commonly called theSocial War, but which appears to have Iwn '.***frequently termed by the Romans themselv^ id*Marsic War. (Belluiu Marsk-um, Fast. Capit. - \ »?'.Pat. ii. 21; Cic. de Dh. L 44, Ac.; t MoovmssaaAoiWro? Tr6\*fivs, Strab. v. p. 241.) PninpaetxrosSilo, who is termed by Livy one of the chief author*of this memorable contest, was himself a Martian:and it was probably at his instigation that tbe Mart:were the first to take np arms after the outbreak c**the Picentes at Asculum; thus at once imparting tothe impending contest the character of a nati salwar. (VeU. Pat. ii. 15; Strah. v. p. 241: D»J.xxxvii. 2.) Their example was immediately (UkmAl