OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. could perpetrate the most atrocious of crimes, the im­pious murder of their sovereign.11 For the crime of anambitious centurion, the nation which he oppressed waschastised with the calamities of war; and the same cala­mities, at the end of twenty years, were retaliated andredoubled on the heads of the Persians.1 The generalwho had restored Chosroes to the throne still commandedin the east: and the name of Narses was the formidablesound with which the Assyrian mothers were accustomedto terrify their infants. It is not improbable, that a-na­tive subject of Persia should encourage his master andhis friend to deliver and possess the provinces of Asia.It is still more probable, that Chosroes should animatehis troops by the assurance that the sword which thevdreaded the most would, remain in its scabbard, or bedrawn in their favour. The hero could not depend onthe faith of a tyrant; and the tyrant was conscious howlittle he deserved the obedience of a hero: Narses wasremoved from his military command; he reared an inde­pendent standard at Hierapolis in Syria: he was betrayedby fallacious promises, and burnt alive in the market­place of Constantinople. Deprived of the only chiefwhom they could fear or esteem, the bands which he hadled to victory were twice broken by the cavalry, tram­pled by the elephants, and pierced by the arrows of thebarbarians ; and a great number of the captives were be­headed on the field of battle by the sentence of the victor,who might justly condemn these seditious mercenariesas the authors of accomplices of the death of Maurice.Under the reign of Phocas, the fortifications of Merdin,Dara, Amida, and Edessa, were successively besieged, re- k Chrislituiis nec pactum esse, nee (idem Dec foedus . . . .' quod si ulla illis fidesfnisset, regem suum non occidi'ssent. Eutych. Annales, torn. 2. p. 211. vers Pocock. * We must now, for some ages, take our leave of contemporary historians, and de­scend, if it be a descent, from the affectation of rhetoric to the rude simplicity ofchronicles and abridgments. Those of Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 244—279.)andNicephorus, p. 316, supply a regular, but imperfect series of the Persian war; andfur any additional facts 1 quole my special authorities. Theophanes, a courlierwhobecame a monk, was born A. D. 748; Nicephorus, patriarch of Constantinople, whodied A. D. 829, was somewhat youuger: they both suffered in the cause of images.Hackius do Scriptoribus Byzantinis, p. 200—24C.