OCR Output Ixxiv A Survey of the History. phy can alleviate. The plague breaks out at Athens ; andthe reader must be ready to feel very sharp emotions in be­half of his fellow-creatures, and in behalf of morality andvirtue too. Amidst their accumulated distresses, Pericles isthe only support of the community; and, like the greatestbenefactors to ungrateful men, is cursed for being their sup­port, and reproached for being steadily wise and in theright. At last he convenes them, and addresses them withsuch an air of ingenuity, such spirit, and conscious dignity,and firm reliance on a good cause; as only two orators thatI know of have ever equalled on parallel occasions. Those;I mean are Demosthenes and St. Paul. All the world ofletters and good taste are well acquainted with the orationof the former against iEschines about the crown ; and everyclass of readers is surely well versed in the Second Epistle ofPaul to the Corinthians. I can but hint these resemblances,since now I must attend on Pericles, who sooths or thundershis countrymen out of all their discontent and malice, andsends them home convinced and ashamed. But domesticdistress soon efFaceth any other impressions; their passionsare again inflamed by inwardly corroding anguish, and Peri­cles after all must be fined, and turned out of his employ­ments. Yet people are not always mad; good sense andconviction return upon them ; and he is begged, becausemost worthy, again to accept the sole administration. Heenjoys it but a little time, before he is carried off by theplague. Athens then lost her ablest, honestest statesman.He was able to have sat at the helm of government, tohave steered the republic safe through every storm, and tohave insured her not bare security but open triumph. Hissuccessors were very alert at catching hold of that helm ;but, none of them could hold it long; and the vessel, throughtheir mutual quarrels, must needs run aground or founder atlast. But the next remarkable passage in the history, is themarch of the Peloponnesians to invest Plataea, and the so­