OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. - 113 they had indignation at it: But when Nehemiah saw that thecity was thin of people, he exhorted the priests and the Levites,that they would leave the country, and remove themselves tothe city, and there continue: and he built them houses at hisown expense: and he commanded that part of the people whichwere employed in cultivating the land to bring the tithes ottheir fruits to Jerusalem, that the priests and Levites havingwhereof they might live perpetually, and might not leave thedivine worship ; who willingly hearkened to the constitutions otNehemiah, by which means the city Jerusalem came to be fullerof people than it was before. So when Nehemiah had donemany other excellent things, and things worthy of commenda­tion in a glorious manner, he came to a great age, and thendied. He was a man of a good and righteous disposition, andvery ambitious to make his own nation happy: and he hath leftthe walls of Jerusalem as an eternal monument for himself.Now this was done in the days of Xerxes. CHAP. VI. Concerning Esther, and Mordecai, and Human : and how in thereign of Artaxerxes, the 'whole nation of the Jews, loas indanger of perishing, § 1. AFTER the death of Xerxes, the kingdom came to betransferred to his son Cyrus, whom the Greeks called Artaxer­xes. When this man had obtained the government over thePersians, the whole * nation of the Jews, with their wives and * Since some sceptical persons are willing to discard this book of Esther as notrue history; and even our learned and judicious Dr. Wall, in his late posthumouscritical notes upon all the other Hebrew books of the Old Testament, gives us noneupon the Canticles, or upon Esther, and seems thereby to give up this book, as wellas he gives up the Canticles, as indefensible: 1 shall venture to say, that almost allthe objections against this book of Esther are gone at once, if, as we certainly oughtto do, and as Dean Prideaux has justly done, we place this history under Artaxet-xes Longimanus, as doth both the Septuagint interpreters and Josephus. Thelearned Dr. Lee, in his posthumous dissertation on the second book of Esdras, page25. also says, That "the truth of this history is demonstrated by the feast of Furini,"kept up from that time to this very day. And this surprising providential revolu-"tion in favour of a captive people, thereby constantly commemorated, standeth even"upon a firmer basis than that there ever was such a man as king Alexander [the11 Great] in the world, of whose reign there is no such abiding monument at this djiy"to be found any where. Nor will they, I dare say, who quarrel at this or any other"of the sacred histories, find it a very easy matter to reconcile the different accounts"which were given by historians of the affairs of this king, or to confirm any one"fact of his whatever with the same evidence which is here given for the principal"fact in the sacred book, or even so much as to prove the^existence of such a person,"of whom so creat things are related, but upon granting this book of Esther, or"sixth of Esdras, (as it is placed in some of the most ancient copies of the Vulgate,)"to be a most true and certain history," &c.