OCR Output 218 LIVY. a great quantity of arms, and eighteen military stan­dards. 44. The joy of one Roman army was enhanced bythe success of the other. Each consul, with the ap­probation of his colleague, gave to his soldiers theplunder of the town which he had taken ; and, whenthe houses were cleared, set them on fire. Thus, onthe same day, Aquilonia and Cominium were both re­duced to ashes. The consuls then united their camps,where mutual congratulations took place between themand between their soldiers. Here, in the view of thetwo armies, Carvilius bestowed on his men commenda­tions and presents according to the desert of each ; andPapirius likewise, whose troops had been engaged in avariety of actions, in the field, in the assault of thecamp, and in that of the city, presented Spurius Nau-tius, Spurius Papirius, his nephew, four centurions,and a company of the spearmen, with bracelets andcrowns of gold:—to Nautius, on account of his beha­vior at the head of his detachment, when he had»terri­fied the enemy with the appearance as of a numerousarmy; to young Papirius, on account of his zealousexertions with the cavalry, both in the battle and inharassing the Samnites in their flight by night, whenthey withdrew privately from Aquilonia; and to thecenturions and company of soldiers, because they werethe first who gained possession of the gate and wall ofthat town. All the horsemen he presented with gor­gets and bracelets of silver, on account of their distin­guished conduct on many occasions. A council wasthen held to consider of the propriety either of re­moving both armies, or one at least, out of Samnium ;in which it was concluded that the lower the strengthof the Samnites was reduced, the greater perseveranceand vigor ought to be used in prosecuting the war untilthey should be effectually crushed, that Samnium mightbe given up to the succeeding consuls in a state of per­fect subjection. As there was now no army of theenemy which could be supposed capable of disputing