OCR Output 200 THE PELOPONNEBIAN VAlt. to all his officers and the noble Odryssians. The customobserved by them and general to all the Thracians, " ofreceiving rather than bestowing," was contrary to that whichprevails in the Persian court, where it was a greater shameto be asked and to deny, than to ask and be denied. Yet,as their power was great, this practice continued long invogue amongst them; for nothing could be obtained byhim who brought no present: And this afforded a large in­crease of power to his kingdom. It had the greatest reve­nue, and was in other respects the most flourishing of allthe kingdoms in Europe between the gulf of Ionia and theEuxine sea. But in military strength and numerous armies,it was the second, though at a great distance from the Scy­thians. For there is no one nation in Europe, nor even inAsia, that in these points can in any degree be a match forthem; or when standing singly, nation against nation, isable to make head against the Scythians, united and in goodharmony with one another. Yet, at the same time, in everypoint of conduct, and management of all the necessary af­fairs of life, they fall vastly short of other people. Sitalces therefore, who was king of so large a country,got his army together; and, when every thing was ready,marched against Macedonia. He first of all passed throughhis own dominions; then over Cercine a desert mountain,the boundary between the Sintians and Paeonians. He wentover it by a passage he had, by cutting down the wood,made formerly himself, in an expedition against the Paeo-nians. In their march from Odrysae over this mountain,they left the Paeonians on their right, but on their left theSintians, and Mcedians. On their descent from it, they ar­rived at Doberus, a city of Paeonia. He lost none of hisarmy in the march, but by sickness; notwithstanding whichit was very much increased : For many of the free Thra­cians came daily in without invitation, and followed for thesake of plunder ; so that the whole number is said at last tohave amounted to a hundred and fifty thousand. Of these.