OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. to the gates of Ravenna and Rome, the inland regions ofItaly became, without a battle or a siege, the lasting pa­trimony of the Lombards. The submission of the peo­ple invited the barbarian to assume the character of alawful sovereign, and the helpless exarch was confined tothe office of announcing to the emperor Justin, the ra­pid and irretrievable loss of his provinces and cities.' Onecity, which had been diligently fortified by the Goths,resisted the arms of a new invader; and while Italy wassubdued by the flying detachments of the Lombards, theroyal camp was fixed above three years before the west­ern gate of Ticinum, or Pavia. The same courage whichobtains the esteem of a civilized enemy, provokes thefury of a savage, and the impatient besieger had boundhimself by a tremendous oath, that age, and sex, anddignity, should be confounded in a general massacre.The aid of famine at length enabled him to execute hisbloody vow; but as Alboin entered the gate, his horsestumbled, fell, and could not be raised from the ground.One of his attendants was prompted by compassion, orpiety, to interpret this miraculous sign as the wrath of hea­ven : the conqueror paused and relented ; he sheathed hissword, and, peacefully reposing himself in the palace ofTheodoric, proclaimed to the trembling multitude, thatthey should live andobey. Delighted with the situation ofthe city, which was endeared to his pride by the difficultyof the purchase, the prince of the Lombards disdained theancient glories of Milan; and Pavia, during some ages,was respected as the capital of the kingdom of Italy." The reign of the founder was splendid and transient;and before he could regulate his new conquests, Alboin'fell a sacrifice to domestic treason and female revenge. In • Paul has given a description of Italy, as it was then divided, into eighteen re­gions, (lih. 2. c. 14—24.) The Dissertatio Chorographica de Italia Medii jEvi,by father Beretti, a Benedictine monk, and regius professor at Pavia, has been use­fully consulted. » For the conquest of Italy, seethe original materials of Paul, (lib. 2. c. 7—10.12.14. 25—27.) the eloquent narrative ofSigonius, (tom. 2. de Regno Italian, lib. 1.p. 13—19.) and the correct and critical review of Muratoii. (Annali d'ltalia, tom. 5. p. 164—180.)