OCR Output lvi "NOTES ON THE THI ITEENTH CHAPTER. [87] Eutropius (ix. 27.) mentions them as apart of the triumph. As the persons had been re­stored to Narses, nothing more than their imagescould be exhibited. [88] Livy gives us a speech of Camillus on thatsubject (v. 51—5s,), full of eloquence and sensibi­lity, in opposition to a design of removing the seat•of government from Rome to the neighbouring cityofVeii. [89] Julius Cæsar was reproached with the in­tention of removing the empire to Ilium or Alex­andria. See Sueton. in Cæsar, c. 79. Accordingto the ingenious conjecture of Le Fevre and Dacier,the third ode of the third book of Horace wasintended to divert Augustus from the execution ofa similar design. [90] See Aurelius Victor, who likewise men­tions the buildings erected by Maximian at Car­thage, probably duiing the Moorish war. Westall insert some verses of Ausonius de Clar. urb. v.Et Mediolani mira omnia : copia rerum;lnnumeræ cultæque domus; fecunda virorumIngenia, et mores læti, turn duplice muroAmplificata loci species; populique voluptas"" Circus; et inclusi moles cuneata Theatri Templa, Palatinacque arces, opulensque Moneta,Et regio Herculei Celebris sub honorc lavacri.Cunctaque marmoreis ornata Perystyla signis;Mœniaque in valli form am circumdata labro,Omnia quæ magnis operum velut æmula formisExcellunt: nec junctæ premit vicinia Romæ. [91] Lactant. de M. P. c. 7. Libanius Orat.viii. p. 203. [92] Lactant. de M. P. c. 17. On a similar occa­sion Ammianus mentions the dhacitaspltbis, as not. very agreeable to an imperial ear. (See 1. xvi.c. 10.) [513] Lactantius accuses Maximian of destroyingfictis criminationibus lumina senatus. (De M. P.c. 8.) Aurelius Victor speaks very doubtfully ofthe faith of Diocletian towards his friends. [94] Truncatæ vires urbis, imminuto prætori-arum cohortium atque in armis vulgi numcro. Au­relius Victor. Lactantius attributes to Galeriusthe prosecution of the same plan, (c, 26.) (55] They were old corps stationed in illyricum;and according to the ancient establishment, they each consisted os six thousand men. They had ac­quired much reputation by the use of the plumlatte,or darts loaded with lead. Each soldier carriedfive of these, which he darted from a considerabledistance, with great strength and dexterity. SeeVegetius, i. 17. [96] See the Theodosian Code, 1. vi. Tit. ii.with Godefroy's commentary. [97] See the 12th dissertation in Spanheim'sexcellent work De usu Numismatum. From medals,inscriptions, and historians, he examines every titleseparately, and traces it from Augustus to themoment of its disappearing. [98] Pliny (in Panegyr. c. 3. 55, &c.) speaks of,Dcminus with execration, as synonymous to Tyrant,and opposite to Prince. And the fame Pliny regu­larly gives that title (in the tenth book of theepistles) to his friend rather than master, the virtu­ous Trajan. This strange expression puzzles thecommentators, who think, and the translators, whocan write. [99] Synesius de Regno, Edit. Petav. p. 15. I amindebted for this quotation to the Abbe de la Ble-terie. [ico] See Vandale de Confecratione, p. 354,&c. It wai customary for the emperors to mention(in the preamble of laws) their numtn, saertd majesty,divine orecles, (Jc. According to Tillemont, Gre­gory of Nazianzen complains most bitterly of theprofanation, especially when it was practised by anArian emperor. [101] See Spanheim de Usu Numismat. Dissert,xii. [102] Aurelius Victor. Eutropius, ix. 26. Itappears by the Panegyrists, that the Romans weresoon reconciled to the name and ceremony of ado­ration. [103] The innovations introduced by Diocletian,are chiefly deduced,—1st, from some very strong pas­sages in Lactantius; and, 2dly, from the new andvarious offices, which, in the Theodosian code,appear already establislied in the beginning of thereign of Conllantine.. [104] Lactant. de M. P. c. 7. [io;1] Indicta lex nova, quæ fane illorum tempo-rum modestia tolerabilis, in perniciem proceffir. Aurel.