OCR Output A. D. 22.] 183 OP TACITUS. rediles from all farther care about the business. Lux­ury went on with boundless profusion. It begansoon after the battle of Actium, and continued toflourish, for the space of a century, down to the timewhen Galba attained the imperial dignity. At thatperiod the manners changed, and temperance becamethe fashion. Of this revolution in the modes of lifea short account will not be improper. While the oldconstitution still subsisted, pomp and splendour wereoften the ruin of the most illustrious families. Toconciliate the favour of the populace, and of the al­lies of Rome, including even kings and princes, wasthe great object of a Roman citizen. In proportionto his wealth, his grandeur, and the magnificence ofhis retinue, his importance rose, and with-it the num­ber of his clients. But when the best blood in Romewas spilt by imperial tyranny, and to be eminent wasto be marked out for destruction; it became the inter­est of the great to lay aside all vain ostentation, andadopt a more humble plan of life. At the same time,a new race of men from the municipal towns, the co­lonies, and tire provinces, found their way, not onlyto Rome, but even into the senate. The strangersthus incorporated brought with them their naturalparsimony. In the course of a long life many of them,either by their own frugality, or a tide of success intheir affairs, accumulated immoderate riches; yeteven in affluence, avarice was their ruling passion.But the cause, which, above all others, contributed tothe revival of ancient economy, was the character ofVespasian; a man of primitive temperance and rigidausterity. All agreed to imitate so excellent a model.Respect for the priuce did more than all the pains andpenalties of the law. And yet, it may be true, thatin the nature of things there is a principle of rotation,in consequence of which the manners, like the seasons,are subject to periodical changes. Nor is it certainthat, in the former ages of the world, every thing wasbetter than in the times that succeeded. The presentage has produced, in moral conduct and the liberalarts, a number of bright examples, which posteritywill do well to imitate. May the contest with anti-