OCR Output MYONXESUS.MYKA. 387 (Steph. B., Strab. S. «.), which belonged to Teo*.The rocks of Myonnesus 'are now called Hypsili- Pliny (IT. 4V. v. 37) mentions a small island of thename of Myonnesus near Ephesus, which, togetherwith two others, Anthinae ami Diarrheusa, formed• group called Pisistrati Insulae. [L. S.] MYOXNE'SUS (MooVrno-oj; Eth. Maoviniatos),a small island lying off the coast of Phthiotis inThessaly,in the bay between I.aii-sa Cremaste andAntron. (Strab. ix. p. 4.15; Steph. B. I.e.) MYOS-HORMOS (o Moot Spuos, Diodor. iii. 39;Strab. xri. p. 760—781, xvii. p. 815; Ptol. iv. 5.? 14, viii. 15. § 18; Peripl Mar. Erythr. pp. 1, 6,'.'. 1I;'A^oSitt)s Spuot, Asatharch. p. 54; VenerisI'ortus, Plin. vi. 29. § 33) was founded by PtolemyPiiiLvlelphus (b. c. 274) upon a headland of similarname. (Mela, iii. 8. § 7.) He selected it for theprincipal harbour and station of the trade of Aegyptwith India, in preference to Arsinoe at the head ofthe Red Sea. on account of the tedious and difficultmrijation down the Heroopolite gulf. Thelame Mycs-Honnos, which indicates its Greekorigin, may signify the " Harbour of the Mouse,bnt more prtibably means " the Harbour " of theMuscle" (uuhk, to close, e.g the shell),since on theneighbouring coast the pearl-muscle or Pinnanorma (comp. the Hebrew pininim, Job, xxxviii.18; Prot. xxxi. 10) is collected in large quantities.(Bruce, TratrU, Tol. vii. p. 314, 8vo. ed.) Thelame was afterwards changed, according to Aga-tharchliles and those writers who copied him, to thatof Aphrodites-Hormos; but the elder appellation iswire generally retained. Myos Hormos seems toliive obtained the designation of Aphrodite (foam ofIbe sea), from the abundance of sea-sponge found inits bay. The latitude of Myos-Hormos is fixed by Brnce,lyAarille, &c, at 27° N. Its situation is deter­mined by a cluster of islands, called Jajfateen bymoiem navigators, of which the three largest lie'■pposite to an indenture of the Aegyptian coast,behind these islands and on the curve of the shore*as the harbour. Its entrance was oblique (Strab.*vL p. 769); but it was spacious and sheltered, andtl* water, even to the land's edge was deep enoughfcr resets of considerable burden. Myos- Hormos owed its prosperity, as well as itsfmoJation. to the trade with Africa, Arabia, andIndia. The vessels bound for Africa or the S. coast<f Arabia left this harbour in the month of Septem-l*r. and thus fell in with the wind, which at theequinox blowa steadily from NW., and carriedth«m down the African coast, bringing them backio the following May. The furthest S. point of theAfrican trade was the town of Khaptum, in theKejio Barbarica, about 10° S. of the equator. The•eweU hound for India (the coast of Malabar orCiyltm) left Myi«-Hormna in July; and if theyri'iml the mouth of the lied Sea before the 1st ofSeptember, they had behind them the monsoon for•early three months. The voyage out usuallyoccupied about 40 days. We are not informed ofthe extent of the Indian trade under the Ptolemies;lot in the reign of Claudiui, wlien the route throughAefypt to J/a/a&arfirst became really known to thellomam, we have a detailed account of it in Pliny(*i. t\ i. 26). That writer calculated the worth°f fU and silver sent yearly from Home to thet*« at 400,000/. sterling, in exchange for which?*ui were received of at least four times the value of that amount, when sold again in Rome or Con­stantinople. The caravans went up the Nile as faras Coptos, whence they travelled through thedesert for 7 or 8 days to Berenice or Myos-Hormos,and exchanged their gold for silk, spices, porcelain,and perfumes. A pound of silk was consideredequivalent to a pound of gold. Philadelphia firstopened the road between Coptos and Myos- Hormos.At first the caravans carried their water with themacross the desert, and employed camels for thetransport of merchandise. But afterwards caravan­saries (orafhioi) were built for the use of travellers;and wells were sunk and cisterns dug for the collec­tion of rain water; although the supply of the lattermust have been scanty and precarious, since rain inthat latitude seldom falls. The prosperity of Myos-Hormos as an emporium,however, seems to have been fluctuating, and it wasfinally supplanted as a depot at least by Berenice,which, being lower down the Red Sea, was yet moreconvenient for the southern trade. That it was fluc­tuating may be inferred from the mention of it by thegeographers. Agatharchides,who composed his workin the reign of Philometer (b. c. 180—145), in hisaccount of the Indian trade, makes no mention ofBerenice. Diodorus who wrote in the age of Augus­tus, speaks of Myos-Hormos, but not of its rival.Strabo, who was nearly contemporary with Diodorus,says that Berenice was merely a roadstead, where theIndian vessels took in their cargo, but that they layin port at Myos-Hormos. Pliny, on the other band,in his description of the voyage to India does notnotice Myos-Hormos at all, and speaks of it inci­dentally only in his account of the \Y. coast of theRed Sea. Accordingly, in the reigns of Vespasianand Trajan it must have been on the decline. There is one difficulty in the relations betweenthese harbours—their distance from each other.According to the Periplus, Berenice was 1800 stadia,or 225 miles, from Myos-Hormos, and even this isnnder the mark, if Cape Raselanf be theLepte Promontorium of Ptolemy. As the pretextfor founding either city was the superior convenienceof each, as compared with Arsinoe {Suez), for theIndian trade, it seems strange that the shijis shouldhave boon kept at Myos-Hormos, but the ladingstaken in at Berenice. It is more reasonable tosuppose that the hitter became the principal empo­rium of the Indian traffic; and as that increased inimportance, the port where it was principally carriedon became the more frequented and opulent place ofthe two. It is uncertain whether the ruins at the village ofAbuschaar represent the site of the ancient Mvos-Hormos. [W. B. D.J MYRA (to. Mvpa or Mvfwv: Eth. Mvptor ), oneof the most important towns of Lycia, situated onthe river Andracus, partly on a hill and partly onthe slope of it, at a distance of 20 stadia from thesea. (Strab. xiv. p. 666; Steph. B. at:; Plin.xxxii. 8; Ptol. v. 6. § 3, viii. 1 7. § 23.) The smalltown of Andriaca formed its port. It is rrmarkabloin history as the place where the apostle Paul landed(Acts, xxv. 5); and in later times the importance ofthe place was recognised in the fact that the em­peror Theodosius II. raised it to the rank of thecapital of all Lycia (Hierocl. p. 684.) The townstill exists, and bears its ancient name Myro, thoughthe Turks call it Dembre, and is remarkable for itsfine remains of antiquity. Leake (^laia Minor, p.183) mentions the ruins of a theatre 355 feet in dia- co 2