OCR Output A. D. 19.] 129 op ' r ; "yours to show your friendship, not by unavailing" tears, but by executing my last commands. In that" consists the noblest duty, the best tribute to the me-" mory of the dead. Even strangers who never saw"me will be touched with sympathy; and you, my" friends, if I was ever dear to you, if you followed" my person, and not my fortune, you will revenge"my fall. Show to the Roman people my afflicted" wife, the grand-daughter of Augustus: show my"children, my six unhappy orphans. Compassion" will be on the side of the prosecutors; and should"my enemies attempt to screen themselves by plead-" ing secret orders, mankind will either not believe"them, or believing, will not forgive them." Thefriends of the dying prince clasped his hands, andbound themselves by a solemn oath to revenge hisdeath, or perish in the attempt. LXXII. Germanicus turning to his wife, and fix­ing his eyes upon her, earnestly conjured her by thememory of her husband, and by their mutual chil­dren, to abate from the pride and fierceness of her' disposition. To bend to the stroke of adversity, andat her return to Rome not to provoke by vain com­petition the resentment of enemies too high in power,was all that was now left.—Thus far with an audiblevoice: he then whispered a secret caution, which wassupposed to point at the malignity of Tiberius. In ashort time after he breathed his last. The provinceslamented their loss; he was honoured by kings, andregretted by the neighbouring nations: such was hisequal behaviour to the allies of Rome, and such thehumanity that endeared him even to the enemy.Graceful in his person, he charmed by his affability;beloved, when heard; admired, when only seen; and,in the highest elevation, great without arrogance, hemaintained the dignity of his rank, yet never gaveenvy reason to repine at his success. LXXIII. The funeral was plain and simple, with­out pomp or pageantry. No images were carried inthe procession. Fond remembrance, and the praisesdue to virtue, were the best decorations. Betweenhim and Alexander men formed a parallel: his time of