OCR Output NUBAE. at tkamjn, lad reinforced by their kindred fromSt, ririiiird akn in Mine measure by the intro-tamva of Cari>titnity among them, these wander-K **:roe> brunt an agricultural race, maintainedfaaMrfti «c»inst the ruder trihea of the easternimtrn, sad a the sixth century a. o. were firmlyeaaaamd a» far S. perhaps as the Second Cataract(Tssaa. Btl Pertic. L c 15.) In the followingr the Subae were for a time overwhelmed by-fa, sod their growing civilisation wagTheir employment as caravan-guides wasi by the introduction of the camel, and—has were thinned by the increased activityaTtat tkve-trade; since the Arabian invaders found • aanrr sod docile negroes a marketable com­mas lit opposite shore of the Bed Sea. Buts s errmry and a half the Nuhae again appear» •ndtnuaaot race on the Upper Kile and its■am. The entire valley of the Nile, froma) ar latin down to the frontier of Aegypt, ist ktodt. and the name Nubia appears for the ■ (Ttojrraphy. t ancient Nuhae were rarttled in the hillsi, SW. of Meroe. (KUppell, Reiten ink ft a.) The language of the Nubians ofI Be st this day b radically the same with*1 *f awthero Kordoftm; and their numbersI amaUy underrated by the Greeks, who were*""1af with such tribes only as wandered north-1 fatst of service with the caravans from■I Phils* to the harbours of the Red Sea.gturttphett, indeed, mention the Nu- ■ s altered race. Puny, Strabo, and Ptolemy..Its them a different position. Ptolemy [I J It) ififvm them from the Nile, doubtlessslj. tod places them W. of the Abyssiniant sear the river Gir and in close contactStrabo (xvii. p. 819) speaksbsjs great nation of Lybia, dwelling in nu-I iairprndenl crnmiinitiei uetntBU the J.ili-raWet and the great bends of the Nile,— ■ Jfcatsa* Lastly, Pliny (vi. 30. s. 34)sat S days W. of the island of the Semberritaew). All these accounts, however, may be U by steaming Kordofa* to have been the ■ seme of the Nuba*, whence they stretched> N. and VY. accordingly as they found 'ttkre, caravan routes, or weaker tribes of 1 fssrtnlu made many settlements in N'nt.ia.•aaaferable Aegyptian population was intro-•tsmj the Dative Aethiopian tribes as farseeaammi ef Gagaodea (Argo), or even Cebel-(LaL 18° 25' N.) It is not certain■y of the present race* of Nubia can be'met of these colonists. Theirattested hy m series of monu-ncarly the whole period of AegyptianThese monuments represent three•a^samtsHml history. (1) The first com-1 samples cot in the sides of the mount-st anottd, the temples which are de-tht tasks, but emulate in their massivetaair original types; (3) the thirdat analler and more frraceful edifices,aavtf Gariaat and lhm<l»nr, in which■aet ef the first style are wholly laid * lent structures, however, though seated■**. the Kuhae were not the authors; and ■ hi regarded either at the works of a raceetsat Im ii if who spread their civi- NUCEBIA. 451ligation northward through the Nile-valley, or ofcolonists from the Thebaid, who carved upon thewalls of Jpmmbiil. Semneh, and Soleh the titlesand victories of Rameses the Great. [W. B. I).] NUCE'KIA (Nouxepio: Klh. NowtepiVot or Noo-xpivos: Nucerinus). 1. Surnamed Ai.rATEitNA(AV>octh dei Pagani), a considerable city of Campa­nia, situated 16 miles SE. from Nola, on the banksof the river Sarnus, about 9 miles from its mouth.(Strab. v. p. 247; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; itin. Ant. p. 109.)The origin of its distinctive appellation is unknown;the analogous cases of Teanum Sidicinum and otherswould lead us to suppose that the Alfaterni were atribe or people of which Nuceria was the chief town;but no mention is found of them as such. Pliny,however, notices the Alfaterni among the " populi"of Campania, apart from Nuceria (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9);and we learn from their coins tliat the inhabitantsthemselves, who were of Oscan race, used the desig­nation of Nuccrini Alfaterni (u Nufkrinum Alsfa-temura"), which we find applied to them both byGreek and Roman writers (NouKepfa ri 'AJ^tpartpv-nKaAoujutrt), Diod. xix. 65; Nuceria Alfaterna, Liv.ix. 41; Friedlander, Otkitche Mun2tn, p. 21). Thefirst mention of Nuceria in history occurs in B.C. 315,during the Second Samnite War, when its citizens,who were at this time on friendly terms with theRomans, were induced to abandon their all nnce, andmake common cause with the Samuites (Diod. xix.65). In B.C. 308 they were punished for their de­fection by the consul Fahius, who invaded their ter­ritory, and laid siege to their city, till he compelledthem to an unqualified submission. (Liv. ix. 41.)No subsequent notice of it occurs till the SecondPunicWar, when,in B.C. 216, Hannibal, having beenfoiled in his attempt upon Nula. turned his armsagainst Nuceria, and with much better success; forthough the citizens at first offered a vigorous resist­ance, they were soon compelled by famine to sur­render: the city was given up to plunder and totallydestroyed, while the surviving inhabitants took re­fuge in the other cities of Campania. (Liv. xxiii.15; Appian, Pun. 63.) After Hannibal had beencompelled to abandon his hold on Campania, the fu­gitive Nucerians were restored (b.c. 210); but, in­stead of being again established in their native city,they were, at their own request, settled at Atella,the inhabitants of that city being transferred to Ca-latia. (Liv. xxvii. 3; Appian, Annib. 49.) HowNuceria itself was repeopled we are not informed,but it is certain that it again became a flourishingmunicipal town, with a territory extending dowu tothe sea-coast (Pol. iii. 91). and is mentioned byCicero as in his day one of the iirf[»rtant towns ofCampania. (Cic. de Leg. Agr. ii. 31.) Its territorywas ravaged by C.Papius in the Social War, b.c. 90(Appian, B. C. i. 42); and if we may trust the state­ment of Floras, the city itself was taken and plun­dered in the same war. (Flor. iii. 18. §11.) Itagain suffered a similar calamity in b.c. 73, at thehands of Spartacus (Id. iii. 20. § 5); and, accordingto Appian, it was one of the towns which the Tri­umvirs assigned to their veterans for their occu­pation (Appian, B. C. iv. 3): but from the LiberColoniarum it would appear that the actual colonywas not settled there until after the establishmentof the Empire under Augustus. (Lib. Colon.p. 235.) It is there termed Nuceria Constantia, anepithet found also in the Itinerary, (/tin. Ant.p. 129.) Ptolemy also attests its colonial tank(Ptol. iii. 1. § 69); and we learn from Tacitus ft O 1