OCR Output A.D. 16.] 97 OF TACITUS. " qualifications of a Roman knight. Has nature made"a distinction between them? No, it is civil policy"that draws the line; and surely it is fit that they," who stand high in rank, in honours, and public sla-" tion, should live in suitable splendour, not only fur-"nished with the necessaries, but also with the ele-" gancies, of life. High station is at best a post of" danger. Will any one argue, that men in office arc"to drudge in business, condemned to endless toil," without the means of repairing the waste of labour,"and without a comfort to sooth anxiety?" The apo­logist of dissipation and luxury carried his point. Withan audience of congenial manners, public vices, deco­rated with specious names, were public virtues. Ti­berius closed the debate. The times, he said, werenot ripe for a censor; but if corruption went on in­creasing, there would be no want of vigour to reformabuses of every kind. XXXIV. In the course of these debates, Lucius Pisobroke out with vehemence against the reigning vicesof the times, the spirit of intrigue that prevailed inthe forum, the venality of the courts of justice, andthe band of public informers, who were ever armedwith accusations, and spread terror through all ranksand degrees of men. For his part, he abjured the cityof Rome. In some remote corner of the world, he wasdetermined to seek an obscure but safe retreat from'he villany of abandoned men. He spoke and left thesenate house. Tiberius heard him, but not withoutinward mortification. He endeavoured by everymeans in his power to appease his indignation; andexerted all his interest with Piso's relations, in orderto dissuade him from his purpose. In a short timeafter, the same eminent person gave another proof ofhis firmness. He had commenced a suit against Ur-gulania, a woman raised above the control of law bythe friendship of Livia. Disdaining to answer theprocess, this haughty favourite took shelter in the im­perial palace. Piso persisted in his demand, undis­mayed by the resentment of Livia, who consideredhis obstinacy as an affront to herself. Tiberiusthought fit to temporize with the passions of his mo- Vol. I.—I