OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. they might boast, perhaps with some exaggeration, thatthey surpassed, in a tenfold proportion, the diminutivepowers of the Romans. But these powers were underthe command of Belisarius: and, as he was conscious oftheir superior merit, he permitted the barbarians to sur­prise him at an unseasonable hour. The Romans wereinstantly under arms: a rivulet covered their front; thecavalry formed the first line, which Belisarius supportedin the centre, at the head of five hundred guards; theinfantry, at some distance, was posted in the second line;and the vigilance of the general watched the separatestation and ambiguous faith of the Massagetse, who se­cretly reserved their aid for the conquerors. The histo­rian has inserted, and the reader may easily supply, thespeeches" of the commanders, who, by arguments themost apposite to their situation, inculcated the impor­tance of victory, and the contempt of life. Zano, withthe troops which had followed him to the conquest ofSardinia, was placed in the centre; and the throne ofGenseric might have stood, if the multitude of Vandalshad imitated their intrepid resolution. Casting awaytheir lances and missile weapons, they drew their swords,and expected the charge: the Roman cavalry thricepassed the rivulet; they were thrice repulsed; and theconflict was firmly maintained, till Zano fell, and thestandard of Belisarius was displayed. Gelimer retreatedto his camp; the Huns joined the pursuit; and the vic­tors despoiled the bodies of the slain. Yet no morethan fifty Romans, and eight hundred Vandals, werefound on the field of battle; so inconsiderable was thecarnage of a day, which extinguished a nation, and trans­ferred the empire of Africa. In the evening, Belisariusled his infantry to the attack of the camp; and the pu­sillanimous flight of Gelimer exposed the vanity of hisrecent declarations, that, to the vanquished, death was arelief, like a burden, and infamy the only object of ter- s These orations always express the seDse of the times, and sometimes of the ac­tors. 1 have condensed that sense, and thrown ana; declamation.