OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 4QI the capital was assaulted by the Avars, who had madesome progress in the science of attack; they advanced tosap or batter the wall, under the cover of the impenetra­ble tortoise; their engines discharged a perpetual volleyof stones and darts; and twelve lofty towers of wood ex­alted the combatants to the height of the neighbouringramparts. But the senate and people were animated bythe spirit df Heraclius, who had detached to their relief a.body of twelve thousand cuirassiers; the powers of fireand mechanics were used with superior art and success inthe defence of Constantinople; and the galleys, with twoand three ranks of oars, commanded the Bosphorus, andrendered the Persians the idle spectators of the defeat oftheir allies. The Avars were repulsed; a fleet of Scla-vonian canoes was destroyed in the harbour; the vassalsof the chagan threatened to desert, his provisions wereexhausted, and after burning his engines, he gave thesignal of a slow and formidable retreat. The devotionof the Romans ascribed this signal deliverance to theVirgin Mary; but the mother of Christ would surelyhave condemned their inhuman murder of the Persianenvoys, who were entitled to the rights of humanity, ifthey were not protected by the laws of nations.": After the division of his army, Heraclius -prudently re- Alliancestired to the banks of the Phasis, from whence he main-and I°"", * quests ot tained a defensive war against the fifty thousand gold Herac,iafcspears of Persia. His anxiety was relieved by the deli­verance of Constantinople; his hopes were confirmedby a victory of his brother Theodorus; and to the hos­tile league of Chosroes with the Avars, the Roman em­peror opposed the useful and honourable alliance of theTurks. At his liberal invitation, the horde of Chozarsf Yet I maoh question whether the senate and people of Constantinople laughed at thismessage of the chagan. ■ ■ e The Paschal Chronicle (p. 392—397.) gives a minnte and authentic narrative ofthe siege and deliverance of Constantinople. Theophanes (p. 264.) adds some cir­cumstances; and a faint light may be obtained from the smoke of George of Pisidia,who has composed a poem (de Bello Abarico, p. 45—54.) to commemorate this aus­picious event. 'The power of the Chozars prevailed in the seventh, eighth, and ninth centuries.They were known to the Greeks, the Arabs, and, under the name of Kosa, to theChinese themselves. De Guignes, Hist. des Huns, tom. 2. part 2. p. 507—509. 1 K 2