OCR Output AN. 148.] ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. who coming to Jamnia with a great army,sent to Jonathan the high-priest, and toldhim, that it was not right that he alone shouldlive at rest, and with authority, and not besubject to the king: that this thing had madehim a reproach among all men, that he hadnot yet made him subject to the king. "Donot thou therefore deceive thyself," said "he,"and sit still among the mountains, and pre­tend to have forces with thee. But if thouhast any dependance on thy strength, comedown into the plain, and let our armies becompared together; and the event of the bat­tle will demonstrate which of us is the mostcourageous. However, take notice, that themost valiant men of every city are in myarmy. And that these are the very menwho have always defeated thy progenitors.But let us have the battle in such a place ofthe country where we fight with weapons,and not with stones; and where there maybe no place whither those that are beatenmay flee." With this Jonathan was irritated: andchoosing out ten thousand of his soldiers, hewent out of Jerusalem in haste, with his bro­ther Simon, and came to Joppa, and pitchedhis camp on the outside of the city: becausethe people of Joppa had shut their gatesagainst him. For they had a garrison in thecity put there by Apollonius. But when Jo­nathan was preparing to besiege them, theywere afraid he would take them by force;and therefore they opened the gates to him.Apollonius hearing that Joppa was taken byJonathan, took three thousand horsemen, andeight thousand footmen, and came to Ashdod:and removing thence he made his journeysilently and slowly; and going up to Joppa,he made as if he were retiring from the place,and so drew Jonathan into the plain: asvaluing himself highly upon his horsemen,and having his hopes of victory principallyin them. However, Jonathan sallied out,and pursued Apollonius to Ashdod. But assoon as Apollonius perceived that his enemywas in the plain, he came back, and gave himbattle. Now Apollonius had laid a thousand horsemen in ambush, in a valley, that theymight be seen by their enemies as behindthem. Jonathan, however, was under n»consternation, on perceiving them, but or­dering his army to stand in a square battlearray, he gave them a charge to fall on theenemy on both sides; and set them to facethose that attacked them both before andbehind. And while the fight lasted till theevening, he gave part of his forces to hisbrother Simon, and ordered him to attack theenemies: but for himself, he charged thosethat were with him to cover themselves withtheir armour, and receive the darts of thehorsemen. Accordingly the enemies' horse­men, while they threw their darts till theyhad no more left, did them no harm: for thedarts that were thrown did not enter intotheir bodies; being thrown upon the shieldsthat were united and conjoined together: thecloseness of which easily overcame the forceof the darts, and they flew about without anyeffect. But when the enemy grew remiss inthrowing their darts, from morning till lateat night; Simon perceived their weariness,and fell upon the body of men before him.And because his soldiers shewed great alac­rity, he put the enemy to flight. And whenthe horsemen saw that the foot ran away,neither did they stay themselves: but theybeing weary by the duration of the fight tillevening, and their hope from the infantrybeing quite gone, they basely ran away, andthat in great confusion also; till they wereseparated one from another, and scatteredover all the plain. Hereupon Jonathan pur­sued them as far as Ashdod; and slew a greatmany of them: and compelled the rest, indespair of escaping, to flee to the temple ofDagon, which was at Ashdod. But Jonathantook the city on the first onset, and burnt it,and the villages about it, nor did he abstainfrom the temple of Dagon itself, but burnt italso; and destroyed those that had fled to it.Now the entire multitude of the enemies thatfell in the battle, and were consumed in thetemple, were eight thousand. When Jona­than therefore had overcome so great an persons in the history of the Maccabees, mentioned underthe name of Apollonius. The former of these beinggovernor of Samaria in the time of Antiochus Epiphanes,1 Mace. iii. 10. was slain in battle by Judas Maccabeus;and the latter, (who is called the son of Gennens, 2 Mace. xii. 2.) being governor of some toparchy in Palestine,under Antiochus Eupator, did then signalize himself bybeing a great enemy to the Jews. Prideaux'i Connection,anno 148. B.