OCR Output CHAP. XLIV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 331 Secondperiod,A. V. C.648—988. of their clients, who, at the dawn of day, from the town'and country, began to thunder at their door. The du­ties of social life, and the incidents of judicial proceed­ing, were the ordinary subject of these consultations, ahd'the verbal or written opinion of the jurisconsults wasframed according to the rules of prudence and law.The youths of their own order and family were permittedto listen; their children enjoyed the benefit of more private lessons, and the Mucian race was long renownedfor the hereditary knowledge of the civil law. The second period, the learned and splendid age of jurispru­dence, may be extended from the birth of Cicero to thereign of Severus Alexander. A system was •formed,schools were instituted, books were composed, and both'the living and the dead became subservient to the instruction of the student. The tripartite of jEHus Paetus, surnamed Catus, or the Cunning, was preserved asthe oldest work of jurisprudence. Cato the censor de­rived some additional fame from his legal studies, andthose of his son: the kindred appellation of MuciusScaevola was illustrated by three sages of the law; butthe perfection of the science was ascribed to ServiusSulpicius their disciple, and the friend of Tully; and thelong succession, which shone with equal lustre underthe republic and under the Caesars, is finally closed bythe respectable characters of Papinian, of Paul, and ofUlpian. Their names, and the various titles of theirproductions, have been minutely preserved, and the ex­ample of Labeo may suggest some idea of their diligenceand fecundity. That eminent lawyer of the Augustanage divided the year between the city and country, be­tween business and composition; and four hundredbooks are enumerated as the fruit of his retirement. Ofthe collections of his rival Capito, the two hundred andfifty-ninth book is expressly quoted; and few teacherscould deliver their opinions in less than a century of vo­lumes. In the third period, between the reigns of Alex­ z 2