OCR Output ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book III. also the sacrifices. There were also manyand various kinds of sweet spices that be­longed to the tabernacle, and such as werevery costly, and were brought to the goldenaltar of incense, whose nature I do not nowdescribe, lest it should be troublesome to myreaders. But incense* was to be offeredtwice a day, both before sun-rising, and sun-setting. They were also to keep oil readypurified for the lamps, threet of which wereto give light all day long upon the sacredcandlestick before God, and the rest were tobe lighted at the evening. When all was finished, Besaleel and Aho-liab appeared to be the most skilful of theworkmen; for they invented finer works thanwhat others had done before them, and wereof great abilities to gain notions of what theywere formerly ignorant of: and of these Besa­leel was judged to be the best. Now thewhole time they were about this work wasseven months, and after this ended the firstyear since their departure out of Egypt. Butat the beginning 01 the second year,f in themonth Xanthicus, as the Macedonians call it,but in the month Nisan, as the Hebrews callit, on the new moon, they consecrated thetabernacle, and all its vessels which I havealready described. God shewed himself pleased with the workof the Hebrews, and did not permit theirlabours to be in vain; nor did he disdain touse what they had made; but he came andsojourned with them, and pitched his taber­nacle in the holy house. And in the follow­ing manner did he come to it: the sky wasclear, but there was a mist over the taberna­cle only, encompassing it, but not with such avery deep and thick cloud as is seen in thewinter season, nor yet in so thin an one asmen might be able to discern any thingthrough it; but from it there dropped a sweetdew, which shewed the presence of God tothose that desired and believed it. When Moses had bestowed such honorarypresents on the workmen as it was fit theyshould receive who had wrought so well, heoffered sacrifices in the open court of the * The incense was here offered, according to Jose-phus'9 opinion, before sun-rising, and at sun-setting; but,in the days of Pompey, according to the same Josephus,the sacrifices were offered in the morning, and at the ninthhour. XIV. 4. tabernacle, as God commanded him; a bull,a ram, and a kid of the goats, for a sin offer­ing. Now I shall speak of what we do in oursacred offices in my discourse about sacrifi­ces, and therein shall inform men in whatcases Moses bid us offer whole burnt offer­ings, and in what cases the law permits us topartake of them as food. And when Moseshad sprinkled Aaron's vestments, himself, andhis sons, with the blood of the beasts thatwere slain, and had purified them with springwater and ointment, they became God'spriests. After this manner did he consecratethem, and their garments, for seven daystogether. The same he did to the taberna­cle, and the vessels thereto belonging, bothwith oil first incensed, as I said, and with theblood of bulls, and of rams, slain day by dayone, according to its kind. But on the eighthday, he appointed a feast for the people, andcommanded them to offer sacrifice accordingto their ability. Accordingly they contendedone with another, and were ambitious to ex­ceed each other in the sacrifices which theybrought, and so fulfilled Moses's injunctions.But as the sacrifices lay upon the altar, a sud­den fire was kindled from among them of itsown accord; and appeared to the sight likefire from a flash of lightning, and consumedwhatsoever was upon the altar. Hereupon an affliction befel Aaron, con­sidered as a man and a father; but he sup­ported it with true fortitude, for he had, in­deed, a firmness of soul in such accidents;and he thought this calamity came upon himaccording to God's will; for whereas he hadfour sons, as I said before, the two elder ofthem, Nadab and Abihu, did not bring thosesacrifices which Moses bade them bring, butwhich they used to offer formerly, and wereburnt to death. Now when the fire rushedupon them, and began to burn them, nobodycould quench it, accordingly they died in thismanner: and Moses bid their father and theirbrethren to take up their bodies, to carry themout of the camp, and to bury them magnifi­cently. Now the multitude lamented them,and were deeply affected at this death, which t Hence we may correct the opinion of the modernRabbins, who say that only one of the seven lamps burnedin the day time, when Josephus, an eye witness, saysthere were three. J An. 1531