OCR Output 28 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and promised that if their inclinations couldnot be governed, he would expose his daugh­ters to their lust, instead of these strangers;neither thus were they made ashamed. But God was much displeased at their im­pudent behaviour, so that he both smote thosemen with blindness,* and condemned theSodomites to universal destruction; but Lot,upon God's informing him of the future de­struction of the Sodomites, went away, takingwith him his wife and two daughters, whowere still virgins, for those that were be-trothedt to them were above the thoughts ofgoing, and deemed Lot's words trifling. Godthen cast a thunderbolt upon the city, andset it on fire, with its inhabitants, and laidwaste the country with the like burning, as Iformerly said when I wrote the Jewish war;Jbut Lot's wife continually turning back toview the city, as she went from it, and beingtoo inquisitive what would become of it,although God had forbidden her so to do, waschanged into a pillar|| of salt; for I have seenit, and it remains at this day. Now he andhis daughters fled to a certain small place,encompassed with the fire, and settled in it.It is to this day called Zoar, for that is theword which the Hebrews use for a smallthing. There it was that he lived a miserablelife, on account of his having no company, andhis want of provisions. But his daughters thinking that all man­kind were destroyed, approached§ to theirlather, though taking care not to be per­ceived. This they did, that the human racemight not utterly fail; and they bare sons, theson of the elder was called Moab, which de­notes one derived from his father: the youngerbare Ammon, which name denotes one de­rived from a kinsman. The former was the father of the Moabites, which is even still agreat nation; the latter was the father of theAmmonites, and both of them are inhabitantsof Celesyria. And such was the departureof Lot from among the Sodomites. CHAP. XII. OP ABIMELECH's CONDUCT TOWARDS ABRAHAM; OF ISMAEL THE SON OF ABRAHAM; AND THE ARABIANS, HIS POS­TERITY. ABRAHAM now removed to Gerar ofPalestine, leading Sarah along withhim, under the name of his sister, using thelike dissimulation that he had used before:for he was afraid of Abimelech, the king ofthat country; who actually fell in love withSarah, and was disposed to corrupt her, buthe was restrained from satisfying his desiresby a dangerous distemper, which befel himfrom God. Now when his physicians des­paired of curing him, he fell asleep, and waswarned in a dream not to abuse the stranger'swife; and when he recovered he told hisfriends, that God had inflicted that diseaseupon him, by way of punishment for his injuryto the stranger, and in order to preserve thechastity of his wife; for that she did not ac­company him as his sister, but as his legitimatewife; and that God had promised to be gra­cious to him for the time to come, if this per­son were once secure of his wife's chastity.When he had said this, by the advice of hisfriends he sent for Abraham, and told him notto be in the least concerned about his wife,for that God took care of him; and that itwas by his providence he received his wifeagain, without suffering any abuse; and heappealed to God, and to his wife's conscience,and said he had not any inclination at first to * Gen. xix. 11. t These sons-in-law to Lot, as they are called, Gen.six. 12, 14,mi?htbe so styled because they were be­trothed to Lot's daughters, though not yet married tothem. See the Note on XIV. 13. t Of the War, IV. 8. II This pillar of salt was, we see here, standing in thedays of Josephus, and he had seen it. That it was stand­ing then is also attested by Clement of Rome, contempo­rary with Josephus; as also it was standing in the nextoentury, is attested by Irenaeus, with the addition of an hy­pothesis, how it came to last so long, with all its membersintire. Whether the account that some modern travellersgive be true, that it is still standing, I do not know. Itsremote situation, at the utmost southern point of the sea of Sodom, in the wild and dangerous deserts of Arabia,makes it exceeding difficult for inquisitive travellers toexamine the place, and for common reports of countrypeople at a distance, they are not very satisfactory. § I see no wicked intention of these daughters of Lot,in a case which appeared to them as an unavoidable neces­sity. Incest is certainly a horrid crime; but whether insuch a case of necessity as they apprehended this to be,according to Josephus, it was any such crime, I am not sa­tisfied. In the mean time, their making their father in­ebriated, and their solicitous concealment of what they didfrom him, shewed that they despaired of persuading him toan action, which at the best, could not but be very shock­ing to so good a man.