OCR Output Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 305 mark of divme providence; so they made a sally, and foughthand to hand with Antigonus' soldiers, with some openly, withsome privately, and destroyed a great number of them. At thesame time, Ventidius, the general of the Romans, was sent outof Syria, to drive the Parthians out of it, and marched after theminto Judea, in pretence indeed to succour Joseph, but in realitythe whole affair was no more than a stratagem, in order to getmoney of Antigonus; so they pitched their camp very near toJerusalem, and wiped off Antigonus a great deal of money, andthen he retired himself with the greater part of the army; but,that the wickedness he had been guilty of might not be found out,he left Silo there, with a certain part of his soldiers, with whomalso Antigonus cultivated an acquaintance, that he might causehim no disturbance, and was still in hopes that the Parthianswould come again and defend him. CHAP. XV. Haw Herod sailed out of Italy to Judea, and fought with An­tigonus; and what other things happened in Judea about thattime. § 1. BY this time Herod had sailed out of Italy to Pto-lemais, and had gotten together no small army, both of strang­ers and of his own countrymen, and marched through Galileeagainst Antigonus. Silo also, and Ventidius, came and assistedhim, being persuaded by Dellius, who was sent by Antony toassist in bringing back Herod. Now for Ventidius, he was em­ployed in composing the disturbances that had been made hi thecities by the means of the Parthians; and for Silo, he was in Ju­dea indeed, but corrupted by Antigonus. However, as Herodwent along, his army increased every day, and all Galilee, withsome small exception, joined him; but as he was marching tothose that were at Massada, for he was obliged to endeavour tosave those that were in that fortress, now they were besieged,because they were his relations: Joppa was a hinderance to him,for it was necessary for him to take that place first, it being acity at variance with him, that no strong hold might be left in hisenemies' hands behind him when he should go to Jerusalem: andwhen Silo made this a pretence for rising up from Jerusalem,and was thereupon pursued by the Jews, Herod fell upon themwith a small body of men, and both put the Jews to flight andsaved Silo, when he was very poorly able to defend himself; butwhen Herod had taken Joppa, he made haste to set free those ofhis family that were in Massada. Now of the people of the coun­try, some joined him because of the friendship they had had with