OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 247 peace. That, however, although he had conquest withinhis reach, yet he did not reject peace; that all nationsmight know that the Roman people were guided by theprinciples of justice, both in undertaking and concludingwars. That these were the terms of peace which heprescribed:—that they should give up the prisoners,deserters, and fugitives; withdraw their armies fromItaly and Gaul'; renounce all pretensions to Spain;retire from all the islands which lie between Italy andAfrica; deliver up all their ships of war, except twenty,and furnish five hundred thousand measures of wheat,and three hundred thousand of barley.' What sum ofmoney he demanded, authors are not agreed. In some,I find five thousand talents;i in others, five thousandpounds weight of silver; while it is also said thatdouble pay of the troops was imposed. 'Three days,'said he, ' shall be allowed you to consider whether youapprove of peace on these conditions. If you do ap­prove of it, then make a truce with me, and send am­bassadors to Rome to the senate.' The Carthaginians,thus dismissed, thought it advisable to submit to anyterms, as the only object they had in view was to gaintime, until Hannibal should come over to Africa; andtherefore they sent ambassadors to Scipio, to concludea truce, and others to Rome to solicit peace. Thesecarried with them a few prisoners, deserters, and fugi­tives, to make a show of obedience, and that they mightattain their object with the less difficulty. 17. Laalius with Syphax and the principal Numidianprisoners arrived at Rome several days before them,and related, in order, to the senate the several trans­actions which had passed in Africa. Great was therejoicing on account of the present state of affairs,and the most sanguine hopes were entertained with re­spect to the future. The senate then, on the businessbeing proposed, ordered that the king should be sentprisoner to Alba, and that Laelius should be detaineduntil the arrival of the Carthaginian ambassadors. A '1,968,750/.