OCR Output 270 LIVY. other, Carthage, having exhausted her ]ast resources,seemed to be threatened with immediate ruin. Nextday advanced two by far the most illustrious generals,and two most puissant armies, of the two most power­ful states, to complete the splendid fabric of glorywhich they had erected, and which each was desirousof securing to himself. The minds of all were anxi­ously suspended between hope and fear; and, whilstthey viewed at one time their own, at another theenemy's army, estimating their powers either by theeye or judgment, they met with objects both of encou­ragement and of dread. Such as did not occur to theirown thoughts were suggested by the generals in theiradmonitions and exhortations. The Carthaginian re­counted the exploits of sixteen years in the heart ofItaly; so many Roman generals, so many armies ut­terly destroyed; and when he came to any soldierwho had been distinguished for his behavior in a for­mer battle, he reminded him of the honors which hahad received. Scipio called to his men's recollectionSpain, the late engagements in Africa, and the ac-knowlegement of the enemy, that they had been com­pelled by their fears to sue for peace; which, yet, thenatural perfidy of their disposition would not allowthem to establish. He related also his conference withHannibal; which, as it had passed in secret, he mighthave misrepresented at his pleasure. He mentioned,as an encouraging omen, that, as they were comingout to battle, the gods had shown them the same por­tents, under the auspices of which their fathers hadfought at the islands /Egates. 'The end of the war,and of all their toils,' he said, 'was now at hand;they had within their reach the plunder of Carthage:and might speedily return home to their country, totheir parents, their children, their wives, and theirhousehold gods.' These words he uttered in an erectattitude, and with a countenance so animated with joy,that he seemed as if he had already obtained the vic­tory. S3. He then drew up the spearmen in the van, be-