OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 123 ments in which he should have blushed to excel. Yetthe studies of Nero in music and poetry, betrayed somesymptoms of a liberal taste: the more ignoble arts ofthe son of Theophilus were confined to the chariot-raceof the hippodrome. The four factions which had agi­tated the peace, still amused the idleness, of the capi­tal: for himself, the emperor assumed the blue livery;the three rival colours were distributed to his favour­ites, and in the vile, though eager contention, he forgotthe dignity of his person, and the safety of his dominions.He silenced the messenger of an invasion, who presumedto divert his attention in the most critical moment of therace; and by his command, the importunate beaconswere extinguished, that too frequently spread the alarmfrom Tarsus to Constantinople. The most skilful cha­rioteers obtained the first place in his confidence andesteem; their merit was profusely rewarded: the em­peror feasted in their houses, and presented theirchildren at the baptismal font; and while he applaud­ed his own popularity, he affected to blame the cold andstately reserve of his predecessors. The unnatural lustswhich had degraded even the manhood of Nero, werebanished from the world; yet the strength of Michaelwas consumed by the indulgence of love and intemper­ance. In his midnight revels, when his passions wereinflamed by wine, he was provoked to issue the mostsanguinary commands; and if any feelings of humanitywere left, he was reduced, with the return of sense, toapprove the salutary disobedience of his servants. Butthe most extraordinary feature in the character of Mi­chael, is the profane mockery of the religion of hiscountry. The superstition of the Greeks might indeedexcite the smile of a philosopher: but his smile wouldhave been rational and temperate, and he must havecondemned the ignorant folly of a youth who insultedthe objects of public veneration. A buffoon of the courtwas invested in the robes of the patriarch; the twelve