OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 303, guarded mistress of the world. But Aurelian, who, watchful forthe safety of Rome, still hung on their rear, found in this placethe decisive moment, of giving them a total and irretrievable de­feat 57. The flying remnant of their host was exterminated in athird and last battle near Pavia; and Italy was delivered from theinroads of the Alemanni. Fear has been the original parent of superstition, and every new cala- Superstitious . r ceremonies. mity urges trembling mortals to deprecate the wrath of their invisibleenemies. Though the best hope of the republic was in the valourand conduct of Aurelian, yet such was the public consternation,when the barbarians were hourly expected at the gates of Rome,that, by a decree of the senate, the Sibylline books were consulted.Even the emperor himself, either from a principle of religion or ofpolicy, recommended the salutary measure, chided the tardiness ofthe senateand offered to supply whatever expence, whateveranimals, whatsoever captives of any nation, the gods mould require.Notwithstanding this liberal offer, it does not appear, that anyhuman victims expiated with their Wood the fins of the Romanpeople. The Sibylline books enjoined ceremonies of a more harm- a. D. 271.less nature, processions of priests in white robes, attended by a ■January ,uchorus of youths and virgins; lustrations of the city and adjacentcountry, and sacrifices, whose powerful influence, disabled the bar­barians from passing the mystic ground on which they had ,beencelebrated. However puerile in themselves, these superstitious artswere subservient to the success of the war; and if, in the decisivebattle of Fano, she Alemanni fancied they saw an army of spectrescombating on the side of Aurelian, he received a very powerful aidfrom this imaginary reinforcement39. But whatever confidence might be placed in ideal ramparts, the Fortification*experience of the past, and the dread of the future, induced the ° Ro,ne'Romans to construct fortifications of a grosser and more substantial kind..