OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 173 unsuccessful. These partial advantages diffused an impa­tient ardour among the soldiers and people, who beganto feel the hardships of a siege, and to disregard thedangers of a general engagement. Each plebeian con­ceived himself to be a hero, and the infantry, who/since the decay of discipline, were rejected from the line:of battle, aspired to the ancient honours of the Romanlegion. Belisarius praised the spirit of his troops, con­demned their presumption, yielded to their clamours,'and prepared the remedies of a defeat, the possibility ofwhich he alone had courage to suspect. In the quarterof the Vatican, the Romans prevailed; and if the irrepa­rable moments had not been wasted in the pillage of thecamp, they might have occupied the Milviah bridge,and charged in the rear of the Gothic host. On theother side of the Tiber, Belisarius advanced from thePincian and Salarian gates. But his army, four thousandsoldiers perhaps, was lost in a specious plain; they wereencompassed and oppressed by fresh multitudes, whocontinually relieved the broken ranks of the barbarians.The valiant leaders of the infantry were unskilled to con­quer: they died: the retreat (a hasty retreat) was co­vered by the prudence of the general, and the victorsstarted back with affright from the formidable aspect ofan armed rampart. The reputation of Belisarius wasunsullied by a defeat; and the vain confidence of theGoths was not less serviceable to his designs than therepentance and modesty of the Roman troops. '«" From the moment that Belisarius had determined to Distress ofsustain a siege, his assiduous care provided Rome against1 *Ctt)'the danger of famine, more dreadful than the Gothicarms. An extraordinary supply of corn was importedfrom Sicily: the harvests of Campania and Tuscanywere forcibly swept for the use of the city: and the mana. (Opp. tom. 3. lib, 4. Dialog. 10. p. 195—129.) A mode of distinguishingthe charge by the horse-trumpet of solid brass, and the retreat by the foot-ttiimpet ofleather and light wood, was recommended by Prueopius, and adopted by Belisarius.VGoth. lib.'J. e. ii3.) '•