OCR Output 464 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. later epoch of Roman literature. Leaving out of accountsome poets little known and whose dates cannot be fixedwith certainty, there belong to this category Quintus Catuius,102. consul in 652 (P. 459) and Lucius Manlius, an eminent97. senator, who wrote in 657. The latter seems to have beenthe first to circulate among the Romans various geographicaltales current among the Greeks, such as the Delian legendof Latona, the fables of Europa and of the marvellous birdPhoenix; as it was likewise reserved for him on his travelsto discover at Dodona and to copy that remarkable tripod,on which might be read the oracle imparted to the Pelaa-gians before their migration into the land of the Siceli andAborigines—a discovery which the Roman annals did notneglect devoutly to register.Historical In historical composition this epoch is especially signalizedcomposi- by an author, who did not belong to Italy either by birthtion. or [a respect of his intellectual and literary stand-point, but ° 7 ™" who first or rather alone as an author appreciated anddescribed the position of Rome in the world, and to whom allsubsequent generations, and we too, owe the best part of our208-127 knowledge of the Roman development. Polybius (c. 546—c. 627) of Megalopolis in the Peloponnesus, son of the.Achaean statesman Lycortas, took part apparently as early189. as 565 in the expedition of the Romans against the Celts ofAsia Minor, and was afterwards on various occasions, moreespecially during the third Macedonian war, employed byhis countrymen in military and diplomatic affairs. Afterthe crisis occasioned by that war in Hellas he was carriedoff along with the other Achaean hostages to Italy (ii. 310),167-150. where he lived in exile for seventeen years (587-604) andwas introduced by the sons of Paullus to the leading circlesof the capital. By the sending back of the Achaean hostages(P. 44) he was restored to his home, where he thenceforthacted as permanent mediator between his confederacy andthe Romans. He was present at the destruction of Car­thage and of Corinth. He seemed educated, as it were, bydestiny to comprehend the historical position of Rome moreclearly than the Romans of that day could themselves. Fromthe position in which he stood as a Greek statesman and aRoman prisoner, esteemed and occasionally envied for hisHellenic culture by Scipio JEmilianus and the first men ofRome generally, he saw the streams which had so longflowed separately meeting together in the same channel and