OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the 1ok> and usurpation of the ecclesiastical patrimonies, that they could neithersupport the state of a prince, nor exercise the charity of a priest. (1) The influ­ence of two sister prostitutes, Marozia and Theodora, was founded on their wealthand beauty, their political and amorous intrigues: the most strenuous of theirlovers was rewarded with the Roman mitre, and their reign(2) may have sug­gested to the darker ages(3) the fable(4) of a female pope. (5) The bastard son,the grandson, and the great grandson, of Marozia, a rare genealogy, were seatedin the chair of St. Peter, and it was at the age of nineteen years that the secondof these became the head of the Latin church. His youth and manhood were ofa suitable complexion; and the nations of pilgrims could bear testimony to thecharges that were urged against him in a Roman synod, and in the presence ofOtho the great. As John XII. had renounced the dress and decencies of his pro­fession, the soldier may not perhaps be dishonoured by the wine which he drank,the blood that he spilt, the flames that he kindled, or the licentious pursuits ofgaming and hunting. His open simony might be the consequence of distress; andhis blasphemous invocation of Jupiter and Venus, if it be time, could not possiblybe serious. But we read with some surprise, that the worthy grandson of Marozialived in public adultery with the matrons of Rome; that the Lateran palace wasturned into a school for prostitution, and that his rapes of virgins and widows haddeterred the female pilgrims from visiting the tomb of St. Peter, lest, in the devoutact, they should be violated by his successor. (6) The protestants have dwelt withmalicious pleasure on these characters of antichrist; but to a philosophic eye, thevices of the clergy are far less dangerous than their virtues. After a long seriesof scandal, the apostolic see was reformed and exalted by the austerity and zealof Gregory VII. That ambitious monk devoted his life to the execution of twoprojects. I. To fix in the college of cardinals the freedom and independence ofelection, and for ever to abolish the right or usurpation of the emperors and theRoman people. II. To bestow and resume the western empire as a fief or be­nefice^) of the church, and to extend his temporal dominion over kings and king­doms of the earth. After a contest of fifty years, the first of these designs wasaccomplished by the firm support of the ecclesiastical order, whose liberty wasconnected with that of their chief. But the second attempt, though it wascrowned with some partial and apparent success, has been vigorously resistedby the secular power, and finally extinguished by the improvement of humanreason. In the revival of the empire of Rome, neither the bishop nor the people couldbestow on Charlemagne, or Otho, the provinces which were lost, as they hadbeen won, by the chance of arms. But the Romans were free to choose a master (1) T*e oppression and vices of the Roman church in the tenth century arestrongly painted in thehistoryand legation of Liutprand; (see p. 440.450. 471—476. 479, &c.) and it is whimsical enough to observe Murato-ri tempering the invectives of Baronius against the popes. But these popes bad been chosen, not by thecardinals, but by lay-psjtrons. (2) The time of pope Joan (papissa Joanna) is placed somewhat earlier than Theodora or Marozia; and thetwo years of her imaginary reign are forcibly inserted between Leo IV. and Benedict III. But the cotetnpora-ry Anastasius indissoluhly links the death of Leo and the elevation of Benedict: (illico, mox, p. 247.) and theaccurate chronology of Pagi, Muratori. and Leibnitz, fixes both events to the year 857. (3) The advocates for pope Joan produce one hundred and fifty witnesses, or rather echoes, of the four­teenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries. They bear testimony against themselves and the legend, by multi­plying the proof that so curious a story must have been repeated by writers of every description to whom itwas known. On those of the ninth and tenth centuries, the recent event would have hashed with a doubleforce. Would Photius have spared such a reproach? Could Liutprand have missed such scandal? It isscarcely worth while to discuss the various readings of Martinus Polonus, Sigebert of Gemblours, or evenMarianm Scotus; but a most palpable forgery is the passage of pope Joan, which has been foisted into someMSS. and editions of the Roman Anastasius. (4) As false, it deserves that name; but I would not pronounce it incredible. Suppose a famous French che­valier of our own times to have been born in Italy, and educated in the church, instead of the army: her me-rit or fortune might have raised her to St. Peter's chair; her amours would have been natural; her delivery idthe streets unlucky, bat not improbable. (5) Till the reformation, the tale was repeated and believed without offence; and Joan's female statue longoccupied her place among the popes in the cathedral of Sienna. (Pagi, Critica, torn. iii. p. 621—623.) She hasbeen annihilated by two learned protestants. Blonde) and Bayte; (Dictionnaire Critique, Papesse, Polonus,Jtlondel) but their brethren were scandalized by this equitable and generous criticism. Spaoheitn and Len.fant attempt to save this poor engine of controversy; and even Mosheim condescends to cherish some doubtand suspicion, (p. 289.) (6) Lateranense pabttium .... prostibulnm meretricum .... Testis omnium gentium, praterquam Ro-manorum, absentia mulierum, qua? sanctorum apostolorum limina orandi gratia timent visere, cum nonnullasante diespancos, nunc audierint conjugata* viduas, virgines vi oppressisse. (Liutprand, Hist. lib. vi. c. 6. p.471. See the whole affair of John XI I. p. 471 —476.) (7) A new example of the mischief of equivocation it the benrfirium (Ducange, torn. i. p. 617, &c.) whichthe pope conferred on the emperor Frederic I. since the Latin word may signify either a legal fief, or a simplefavour, an obligation, (we want the word bienfalt.) See Schmidt, Hist, des Allemands, torn. iii. p. 398—40G.PfeffeJ, Abrege Chronologique, torn. i. p. 229.296.317.324.420.430. 500. 505. S09. &c. Vol. Ill 38