OCR Output 316 [book tiu. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. but as for his second desires, he could notsubmit to them. When Benhadad heard this, he had indig­nation, and sent ambassadors a third time;threatening that his army should raise abank higher than those walls, in confidenceof whose strength Ahab despised him, andthat by only each man of his army taking ahandful of earth. Hereby making a shew ofthe great number of his forces, and aimingto affright him. Ahab, however, answered,that he ought not to vaunt himself when hehad only put on his armour, but when heshould have conquered his enemies in thebattle.* So the ambassadors came back,and found Benhadad at supper with histhirty-two kings, and informed him of Ahab'sanswer; in consequence of which he imme­diately gave orders to make lines round thecity, and raise a bulwark; and to prosecutethe siege all manner of ways. Now as thiswas doing, Ahab was in great agony, and allhis people with him. But he took courage,and was freed from his fears, upon a certainprophet's coming to him, and saying, thatGod had promised to subdue so many thou­sands of his enemies under him. And whenhe had inquired by whose means the victorywas to be obtained; he said, "By the sonsof the princes; but under thy conduct, astheir leader; by reason of their unskilfulnessin war." Hereupon he called for the sonsof the princes, and found them to be twohundred and thirty-two persons; and whenhe was informed that the king of Syria hadbetaken himself to feasting and repose, heopened the gates, and sent out the princes'sons. Now when the sentinels told Ben­hadad of it, he sent some to meet them, and commanded that if these men were comeout for fighting, they should bind them, andbring them to him; and that if they came outpeaceably, they should do the same. NowAhab had another army ready within thewalls. But the sons of the princes fell uponthe out-guard, and slew many of them, andpursued the rest of them to the camp. Andwhen the king of Israel saw that these hadthe upper hand, he sent out all the rest ofhis army; whicb falling suddenly upon theSyrians, beat them: for they did not thinkthey would have come out. On which ac­count it was that they assaulted them whenthey were naked,f and intoxicated; inso­much that they left all their armour behindthem when they fled out of the camp; andthe king himself escaped with difficulty, byfleeing away on horseback. But Ahab wenta great way in pursuit of the Syrians: andwhen he had spoiled their camp, which con­tained a great deal of wealth, and a largequantity of gold and silver, he took Ben-hadad's chariots and horses, and returnedto the city. But as the prophet told him heought to have his army ready, because theSyrian king would make another expeditionagainst him the next year, Ahab was busy inmaking provision for it accordingly. When Benhadad had saved himself,:): andas much of the army as he could out of thebattle; he consulted with his friends how hemight make another expedition against theIsraelites. Now those friends advised him,not to fight with them on the hills; becausetheir God was potent in such places; andthence it had come to pass that they hadlately been beaten. But they said, that ifthey joined battle with them in the plain, * 1 Kings xx. 11. t Mr. Reland notes here very truly, that the wordnaked does not always signify entirely naked; but some­times without men's usual armour, without their usualrobes or upper garments. As when Virgil bids the hus­bandmen plough and sow naked. When Josephus says,IV. 3, that God had given the Jews the security of ar­mour, when they were naked: and when he here saysthat Ahab fell on the Syrians when they were naked andintoxicated. When, XI. 5, he says, that Nehemiahcommanded those Jews that were building the walls ofJerusalem, to take care to have their armour on uponoccasion, that the enemy might not fall upon them naked.I may add, that the case seems to be the same in theScripture, when it says, that Saul lay down naked amongthe prophets, 1 Sam. xix. 24. When it says, that Isaiah walked naked and barefoot, Isaiah xx. 2, 3. and when itsays, that Peter, before he girt his fisher's coat abouthim, was naked, John xxi. 7. Nor were the naked sol­diers others than those levis armaturx, who were freefrom the heavy armour of the rest. And the like maybe supposed in several other places. What is said toDavid also gives light to this; who was reproached byMichnl for dancing before the ark, and uncovering himselfin the eyes of the handmaids, as one of the vain fellowsshamefully uncovereth himself, 2 Sam. vi. 14, 20. yet isit there expressly said, verse 14, that David was girdedwith a linen ephod: i. e. he had laid aside his robe ofstate, and put on only the sacerdotal, Levitical, or sacredgarments, proper for such a solemnity. See also Antiq.V. 3, VI. 2, and XVII. 10.J About an. 898.