OCR Output 3R4 MODICIA. MOABITAE. Lot, the fruit of his incestuous connection with hiseldest daughter. (Gen. xix. 37.) Moses has pre­served the very early history of their country inDeuteronomy (ii. 9—11):—"The Lord said untome. Distress not the Moabites, neither contend withthem in battle, for I will not give thee of their landfor a possession; because I have given Ar unto thechildren of Lot for a possession. The Kmimsdwelt there in times past, a people great, and many,and tall, as the Anakims." The Moabites, havingdispossessed these gigantic aborigines, held pos­session of their country, which was bounded on thenorth by the river Arnon, which separated tbemfrom the Amorites. At an earlier period, indeed,they had extended their conquests far to the northof the Amon, but had been forced to retire beforethe Amorites, to whom they had ceded their north­ern conquests, even before the children of Israel cameinto their coasts; and several fragments of the an­cient war-songs relating to these times are preservedby Moses. (Xumb. xxi. 13—15, 26—30.) Theboundary question was revived subsequently, in thedays of Jephthah, when the Amorites demandedthe restoration of the conquests that Israel had madebetween the Arnon and the Jabbok south and north,and to the Jordan westward, as of right belongingto them, their title not having been invalidated by300 years' occupation by the Israelites. It appearsfrom Jephthah's historical review of the facts, thatthe Israelites had neither invaded nor occupied anypart of the territories of which Moab and Ammonwere in actual possession at the period referred to;but only so much of their ancient possessions asSihon king of the Amorites had already forcedthem to abandon (Judga, xi. 12—28); and it isremarkable that the memorial of the occupation ofthe territory north of Amon by the Moabites hasbeen preserved, through the Mosaic records, even tothis day, in the name that is popularly assigned tothat remarkable mountain district east of the DeadSea, which forms bo conspicuous and remarkable afeature in the distant view from Jerusalem towardsthe east, still called " the mountains of Moab,'' as inDeuteronomy that high table land is described asthe "plains of Moab" (Dent, xxix. 1, xxxii. 49);and JosephuK occasionally uses the name with thesame latitude, of the country north of the Arnon,describing the Moabites as still a mighty nation ofCoelesyria (Ant i. 11. § 5); and reckoning amongthe Muabite cities occupied by the Jews under Alex­ander Jannaeus, Chesbon (Heshbon), Medaba, Pel las,and others that lay considerably north of the Amon(Ant. xiii. 15. § 4), although in other passages hemakes that river divide the Moabites from theAmorites (Ant. iv. 5. § 1), and describes thecountry of Moab as the southern limit of I'eraea{II. II. Jud. ill. 3. § 3), consistently with whichnotices he compares the country of the Amorites toan inland, bounded by the Arnon on the S., theJablxik on the N., and the Jordan on the K.{Ant. iv. 5. § 2.) It is then justly remarkedby Keland (PaUuttina, p. 102), that by "the plainsof Mo;il)," where the Israelites were encamped be­fore they crossed the Jordan (Svmb. xxxiii. 48,49, 50), which is described as being over againstJericho, and by the "land of Moab," in whichmount Nebo is said to lie situated (l)rut. xxxii. 49,comp. xxxiT. 1.5.6.8), it is not to be understood asthough that district was actually in possession of theMoabites at that time; but is so called becausethey formerly held it uuder their dominion. (A'uimo. xxi. 26.) It may be added, that after it bad betaoccupied by the tribes of Gad and Keuben. to wrn-nMoses assigned it(.\'umo. xxxii.3.33—3$).theM<«b-iles again conquered it for a time, as it is clear tailEglon must have subjugated that district east of theJordan, before he could have possessed himself <AJericho, on the west of that river. (Judges, in. 11—30.) Their long and undisturbed tenure of taeirown proper country is forcibly described by lotprophet Jeremiah. "Moab hath been at ease fromhis youth, and he hath settled on his lees, and hubnot been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither ba!ahe gone into captivity: therefore his taste remindin him, and his scent is not changed" (xlvuL II);and the enumeration of its prosperous cities, in hisdenunciation, indicates the populousneas and rich*ness of the country, to which the Israelites resortedwhen suffering from famine in their own mustfruitful districts (Ruth, LI), and which suppliedthe market of Tyre with grain. (Eieh. xxvii. 17.)[Minnitii.] The country is described by JoMpataas fertile, and capable of supporting a number Jmen on its produce. (Ant. iv. 5. § 1.) This accountboth of its populousness and fertility is remarkablyconfirmed by modem travellers, and the existingmonuments of its numerous cities. Thus Irby salMangles, proceeding south from Kerek, " ascendedinto a country of downs, with verdure so close as tt)appear almost like turf, and with cornfields at inter­vals." They passed many ruined si tea, the namesof several of which they obtained; " in short,™ ineyadd, " the whole of the fine plains in this quarterare covered with sites of towns, on every eraitisnc*or spot convenient for the construction of one; salas all the land is capable of rich cultivation, thencan be little doubt that this country, now so deserted,once presented a continued picture of plenty andfertility n ( Travth, p. 371, compare under Juot 5,p. 4S6); and it is to this quarter that the Arsisreferred, when they reported to Volney " that theftare to the SK. of the lake Asphaltes, within three! days' journey, upwards of three hundred ruined tfwas| absolutely deserted; several have large edifices withcolumns." (lb. p 310.) He indeed assigns thecountry to " the Xabathaeans, the most potent of thsArabs and of the Idumaeans;" but the nuns artmore probably to be referred to the earlier inhabi­tants of the country, who, we know, lived iu vttiedhabitations, while the Nabathaei were a Bedcwitribe, living for the most part iu tents. In any casethe present aspect of the country furnishes a sink­ing commentary on Jeremiah xlviii., e. g. "Joy anagladness is taken from the plentiful field, and fnaathe land of Moab; and I have caused wine u> fad fromthe wine-presses: none shall tread with »a»-a'i<j-:their shouting shall be no shouting." (G.W.J MOCISUS, or MOCISUM (Mawrrrar, Ma-uwla fort in the north western part of CappadoeU. whscathe Kniperor Justinian, at the time when he drcn-vdthe country into three provinces, raised to the rankof the capital of Cappadocia 11L On that occsasscthe place was considerably enlarged, and iu Bast*was changed into Justioianopoli*. (l*mcop.<fV A*d.v. 4; IlierocL p. 701, where it is muwritten Ti|iKovnovais, for 'P«7t*40u«io~o'f; Const. J'orpii. •>Them. i. 2; Stcph. B. t. r. Mowcurirn; Cobc C'-sbs.ii. p. 96.) It modem name is A'ir SktJtr. [V. S ]MODICIA (-tfonw), a city of Cmlpirat Gasi.situated on the river Lambrus, about 12 bust* X. *Milan, the name of which is not found dons?, if*period of the Human Empire, and it was prut-afc.* u