OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 27 the very entrance of the gate, so that the men wereobliged to make their way over the trench and ram­part. Here the slaughter of the enemy was the great­est. There were killed no less than eight thousandmen, and five elephants. Nor did the Romans gainthe victory without loss of blood: of the two legions,about one thousand seven hundred were killed, and ofthe allies above one thousand three hundred. Greatnumbers, both of Romans and allies, were wounded.In the following night Hannibal decamped, and thoughMarcellus wished to pursue him, he was prevented byhis wounded, which were in great number. Scouts,who were sent to observe his march, brought intelli­gence next day that Hannibal had taken the road to­wards Bruttium. 15. About the same time the Hirpinians, Lucanians,and Volscians, surrendered themselves to the consulQuintus Fulvius, delivering up Hannibal's garrisonswhich they had in their cities, and were mildly re­ceived by the consul with only a verbal reproof fortheir past errors. Hopes of similar gentle treatmentwere held out to the Bruttians also, through two bro­thers, Vibius and Pactius, of the most illustrious fa­mily of any in that nation, who came to request thesame terms of capitulation which were granted to theLucanians. The other consul, Quintus Fabius, tookby assault Manduria, a town in the territory of Sal-lentum. Here he made four thousand prisoners, andgained much booty of other kinds. Proceeding thenceto Tarentum, he pitched his camp at the very mouth ofthe harbor. Of the ships, which Livius had kept herefor the purpose of protecting convoys, he loaded partwith machines and implements fit for assailing walls;the rest he furnished with engines, stones, and missileweapons of every kind; the storeships also, not con­fining himself to such only as were moved by oars, befitted out in the same manner, in order that some mightbring out the machines and ladders to the walls, whilethe others, from their ships at some distance, shouldannoy with missile weapons the men employed in de-