OCR Output B. II. YEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 179 sheep-skins and hides of beasts, to defend the workmenfrom missive weapons, and to preserve the wood from beingfired by the enemy. This work within was raised to a greatheight, and the mount was raised with equal expedition•without. Upon this, the Plataeans had recourse to anotherdevice. They broke a hole through the wall, close to whichthe mount was raised, and drew the earth away from underit into the city. But this being discovered by the Pelopon-nesians, they threw into the hole hurdles made of reeds andstuffed with clay, which being of a firm consistence couldnot be dug away like earth. By this they were excluded,and so desisted for a while from their former practice. Yetdigging a subterranean passage from out of the city, whichthey so luckily continued that it undermined the mount,they again withdrew the earth from under it. This prac­tice long escaped the discovery of the besiegers, who stillheaping on matter, yet the work grew rather less, as theearth was drawn away from the bottom, and that above fellin to fill up the void. However, still apprehensive, that asthey were few in number, they should not be able long tohold out against such numerous besiegers, they had recourseto another project. Thev desisted from carrying on thegreat pile which was to counterwork the mount, and beginningat each end of it where the wall was low, they run anotherwall in the form of a crescent along the inside of the city,that if the great wall should be taken this might afterwardshold out, might lay the enemy under a necessity of throwingup a fresh mount against it, and that thus the further theyadvanced the difficulties of the siege might be doubled, andbe carried on with increase of danger. When their mount was compleated, the Peloponnesiausplayed away their battering-engines against the wall ; andone of them they worked so dextrously from the mount againstthe great pile within, that they shook it very much, andthrew the Platreans into consternation. Others they appliedin different parts against the wall, the force of which was