OCR Output 322 ROMAN EMPIRE. vowed to destroy, and whom the confederates of Tayefhad sworn to defend.0 Four thousand Pagans advancedwith secrecy and speed to surprise the conqueror; theypitied and despised the supine negligence of the Koreish,but they depended on the wishes, and perhaps the aid,of a people who had so lately renounced their gods, andbowed beneath the yoke of their enemy. The bannersof Medina and Mecca were displayed by the prophet; acrowd of Bedoweens increased the strength or numbersof the army, and twelve thousand Mussulmans enter­tained a rash and sinful presumption of their invinciblestrength. They descended without precaution into thevalley of Honain ; the heights had been occupied by thearchers and slingers of the confederates; their numberswere oppressed, their discipline was confounded, theircourage was appalled, and the Koreish smiled at theirimpending destruction. The prophet, on his white mule,was encompassed by the enemies; he attempted to rushagainst their spears in search of a glorious death: tenof his faithful companions interposed their weapons andtheir breasts; three of these fell dead at his feet. O mybrethren (he repeatedly cried with sorrow and indigna­tion), I am the son of Abdullah, T am the apostle oftruth! O man stand fast in the faith! O God, senddown thy succour! His uncle Abbas, who like the heroesof Homer, excelled in the loudness of his voice, made thevalley resound with the recital of the gifts and promisesof God: the flying Moslems returned from all sides tothe holy standard; and Mahomet observed with plea­sure that the furnace was again rekindled: his conductand example restored the battle; and he animated hisvictorious troops to inflict a merciless revenge on theauthors of their shame. From the field of Honain, hemarched without delay to the siege of Tayef, sixty miles • The siege of Tayef, division of the spoil, &c. are related by Abulfeda, (p. 117-,-l33.) and Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 88—111.) It is Al Jannabi who mentions theengines and engineers of the tribe of Daws. The fertile spot of Tayef was sup­posed to be a piece of the land of Syria detached and dropped in the preneral"•lug*.