OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 553 historian) of punishing men who had found no accusers but them­selves, the Imperial laws not having made any provision for so un­expected a case: condemning therefore a few, as a warning to theirbrethren, he dismissed the multitude with indignation and con­tempt 9<S. Notwithstanding this real or affected disdain, the intrepidconstancy of the faithful was productive of more salutary effects onthose minds which nature or grace had disposed for the easy recep­tion of religious truth. On these melancholy occasions, there weremany among the Gentiles who pitied, who admired, and who wereconverted. The generous enthusiasm was communicated from thesufferer to the spectators; and the blood of martyrs, according to awell-known observation, became the seed of the church. But although devotion had raised, and eloquence continued to Gradual re-inflame, this fever of the mind, it insensibly gave way to the more hxMoa'natural hopes and fears of the human heart, to the love of life, theapprehension of pain, and the horror of dissolution. The more pru­dent rulers of the Church found themselves obliged to restrain theindiscreet ardour of their followers, and to distrust a constancy whichtoo often abandoned them in the hour of trial97. As the lives ofthe faithful became less mortified and austere, they were every dayless ambitious of the honours of martyrdom; and the soldiers ofChrist, instead of distinguishing themselves by voluntary deeds ofheroism, frequently deserted their post, and fled in confusion beforethe enemy whom it was their duty to resist. There were threemethods, however, of escaping the flames of persecution, whichwere not attended with an equal degree of guilt: the first indeedwas generally allowed to be innocent; the second was of a doubtful,or at least of a venial nature; but the third implied a direct and cri­minal apostacy from the Christian faith. I. A modern inquisitor would hear with surprise, that whenever Thr tree me­ an information was given to a Roman magistrate of any person ^alpingwithin his jurisdiction who had embraced the sect of the Christians, mart)rJon>-Vol. I. 4 B the