OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 339 ing beset on all sides by so many nations, was in dangerof being invested by sea also. 41. These reasons had brought back Damocritus andthe jEtolians to the interest of the Romans. Marchingout, therefore, in conjunction with Amynander, kingof the Athamanians, they laid siege to Cercinium. Theinhabitants here had shut their gates, whether of theirown choice or by compulsion is unknown, as they hada garrison of the king's troops. However, in a fewdays, Cercinium was taken and burned ; and after great, slaughter had been made, those who survived, bothfree men and slaves, were carried off amongst otherspoil. This caused such terror, as made all thosewho dwelt round the lake Boebius abandon their cities,and fly to the mountains: and the jEtolians not find­ing booty, turned away from thence, and proceededinto Perrhaebia. There they took Cyretias by storm,and sacked it without mercy. The inhabitants of Mal-loea, making a voluntary submission, were receivedinto alliance. From Perrhaebia, Amynander advisedto march to Gomphi, because that city lies close toAthamania, and there was reason to think that it mightbe reduced without any great difficulty. But the jEto-lians, for the sake of plunder, directed their march tothe rich plains of Thessaly, Amynander following,though he did not approve either of their carelessmethod of carrying on their depredations, or of theirpitching their camp in any place where chance di­rected, without choice, and without taking any care tofortify it. Therefore, lest their rashness and negli­gence might be the cause of some misfortune to him­self and his troops, when he saw them forming theircamp in low grounds, under the city Phecadus, hetook possession, with his own troops, of an eminenceabout five hundred paces distant, which could be ren­dered secure by a slight fortification. The jEtoliansseemed to have forgotten that they were in an enemy'scountry, excepting that they continued to plunder,some straggling in small parties without arms, othersspending whole days and nights in drinking and sleep­