OCR Output c. vm.] eleazar's speeches. 33'J duct them to their death more readily than do any of the restof mankind conduct their fellow-citizens when they are goinga very long journey, who at the same time weep on their ownaccount, but look upon the others as happy persons, as sosoon to be made partakers of the immortal order of beings.Are not we, therefore, ashamed to have lower notions thanthe Indians ? and by our own cowardice to lay a base reproachupon the laws of our country, which are so much desired andimitated by all mankind ? But put the case that wo had beenbrought up under another persuasion, and thought that lifeis the greatest good which men are capable of, artd that deathis a calamity; however, the circumstances we are now in oughtto be an inducement to us to bear such calamity courageously,since it is by the will of God and by necessity that we are todie; for it now appears that God hath made such a decreeagainst the whole Jewish nation, that we are to be deprivedof this life which [he knew] we would not make a due use of:for do not you ascribe the occasion of your present conditionto yourselves, nor think the Romans are the true occasionthat this war we have had with them is become so destructiveto us all: these things have not come to pass by their power,but a more powerful cause hath intervened, and made us af­ford them an occasion of their appearing to be conquerorsover us. What Roman weapons, I pray you, were those bywhich the Jews of Caesarca were slain ? On the contrary,when they were no way disposed to rebel, but were all thewhile keeping their seventh day festival, and did not so muchas lift up their hands against the citizens of Caesarca, yet didthose citizens run upon them in great crowds, and cut theirthroats and the throats of their wives and children, and thiswithout any regard to the Romans themselves, who nevertook us for their enemies till we revolted from them. Butsome may be ready to say, that truly the people of Caesareahad always a quarrel against those that lived among them,and that, when an opportunity offered itself, they satisfied theold rancor they had against them. What, then, shall we sayto those of Scythopolis, who ventured to wage war with uson account of the Greeks ? Nor did they do it by way of re­