OCR Output 356 FLAVIUSJOSEPHOS [B. I. great antiquity, and had a distinct subsistence of its ownoriginally; as also, I have therein declared how we came toinhabit this country wherein we now live. Those Antiquitiescontain the history of five thousand years, and are taken outof our sacred books, but are translated by me into the Greektongue. However, since I observe a considerable number ofpeople giving ear to the reproaches that are laid against usby those who bear ill-will to us, and will not believe what Ihave written concerning the antiquity of our nation, whilothey take it for a plain sign that our nation is of a late date,because they are not so much as vouchsafed a bare mentionby the most famous historiographers among the Grecians, I,therefore, have thought myself under an obligation to writesomewhat briefly about these subjects, in order to convictthose that reproach us of spite and voluntary falsehood, andto correct the ignorance of others, and withal to instruct allthose who are desirous of knowing the truth of what greatantiquity we really are. As for the witnesses whom I shallproduce for the proof of what I say, they shall be such asare esteemed to be of the greatest reputation for truth, andthe most skilful in the knowledge of all antiquity, by theGreeks themselves. I will also show, that those who havewritten so reproachfully and falsely about us are to be con­victed by what they have written themselves to the contrary.I shall also endeavor to give an account of the reasons whyit hath so happened, that there have not been a great numberof Greeks who have made mention of our nation in theirhistories: I will, however, bring those Grecians to light, who later than his days, so does it perfectly agree to my own determination,from Justus of Tiberias, that he wrote or finished his own life after the 3dof Trnjan, or A. D. 100, to which Noldius also agrees, de Herod. No. 383." [Epaphroditu>] since Flavius Josephus," says Dr. Hudson, " wrote [orfinished] his books of Antiquities on the 13th of Domitian, [A. I>. 03,] andafter that wrote the memoirs of his own life as an appendix to the books ofAntiquities, and at last his two books against Apion, and yet dedicated allthose writings to Epaphroditus, he can hardly bo that Epaphroditus whowas formerly secretary to Nero, and was slain on the 14th [or 15th] ofDomitian, after ho had been for a good while in banishment, but anotherEpaphroditus, a free man and procurator of Trajan, a? says Orotius onLuke, i. 3."