OCR Output CHAP. 53. ROMAN HISTORY. 387 the utmost dispatch, sent great quantities of grain downthe Tiber. While the sickness prevailed in the city, theconsuls had a demonstration of the desolate state of the'city ; for they could not find above one senator, for every. particular embassy, for which reason, they were obligedto associate two knights with each of them. Exceptingthe effects of the plague and the famine, for two succes­sive years, the Romans had nothing to trouble them athome or abroad. But, the moment they had got overthese difficulties, all the miseries which had been theusual attendants on civil dissensions and foreign war, at­tacked them at once. CHAP. LIII. Opposition of the College to Mxnius. Valerius humbles thejEqui, but is unpopular in the army. _L HE former consuls were succeeded by MamercusJEmilius, and C. Valerius Potitus, in whose consulate, thejEqui renewed their preparations for war; and althoughthe Volsci did not take up arms by public authority, theyjoined the /Equi as volunteers, and served for pay. Upon* advice of the progress of these enemies, who by this timehad entered the frontiers of the Latins and Hernici, theconsul Valerius began to make the levies for raising anarmy; but M. Mocnius, one of those tribunes who hadproposed the Agrarian law, opposed him; and while thecommons were supported by this tribune, none of themcould be compelled to take the military oath. During this contest, they were surprised with the ac­counts that the fortress of Carventum was in the hands ofthe enemy. As this disgrace exposed Mcenius to theodium of the senators, it furnished the other tribunes anoble pretext for opposing their colleague, being previ­ously determined to declare against the Agrarian law.Wherefore, after long altercations on both sides, the con­suls called gods and men to witness, that whatever da­mage or disgrace the enemy had or would bring uponthem, it was all chargeable upon Mfenius, who had ob- ' .structed the levies. Maenius, on the other hand, exclaim­ed, that if the violent possessors of the property of the