OCR Output CHAF. XLH.] OP THE ROMAN EMWRE. 033 struse and profound questions which amused the leisureof the schools of Athens? Could they hope that theprecepts of philosophy should direct the life, and con-troul the passions, of a despot, whose infancy had beentaught to consider his absolute and fluctuating will as theonly rule of moral obligation r* The studies of Chos-roes were ostentatious and superficial: but his exampleawakened the curiosity of an ingenious people, and thelight of science was diffused over the dominions of Per­sia." At Gondi Sapor, in the neighbourhood of theroyal city of Susa, an academy of physic was founded,which insensibly became a liberal school of poetry, phi­losophy, and rhetoric.b The annals of the monarchy0were composed; and while recent and authentic historymight afford some useful lessons both to the prince andpeople, the darkness of the first ages was embellished bythe giants, the dragons, and the fabulous heroes of ori­ental romance.*1 Every learned or confident strangerWas enriched by the bounty, and flattered by the con­versation, of the monarch: he nobly rewarded a Greekphysician,' by the deliverance of three thousand captives;and the Sophists, who contended for his favour, were ex­asperated by the wealth and insolence of Uranius, theirmore successful rival. Nushirvan believed, or at least *A thousand years before bis birth, the judges of Persia had given a solemn opinion—T<» Bcto-tXEuom Tlsfcrtan E^Eivat irtmia to ay Boi/Xstcu. (Herodot. lib. 3. c. 31. p. 210.edit. Wesseling.) Nor had this constitutional maxim been neglected as an uselessand barren theory. » « • • '* ■ On the literary stale of Persia, the Greek versions, philosophers, sophists, thelearning or ignorance of Chosroes, Agathias (lib. 2. c. 66—71.) displays much infor­mation and strong prejudices. b Asseman. Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 745—747. c The Sbah Nameh, or book of Kings, is perhaps the original record of historywhich was translated into Greek by the interpreter Sergins, (Agathias, lib. 5. p. 141.)preserved after the Mahometan conquest, and versified in the year 994, by the na­tional poet Ferdoussi. See d'Anquetil, (Mem. de l'Academie, torn. 51. p. 379.)andSir William Jones. (Hist, of Nader Sbah, p. 161.) * In the fifth century, the name of Restom or Rostam, a hero who equalled thestrength of twelve elephants, was familiar to the Armenians. (Moses Choronensis,Hist. Armen. lib. 2. c. 7. p. 96. edit. Whiston.) In the beginning of the seventh,the Persian Romance of Rostam and Isfendiar was applauded at Mecca. (Sale'sKoran, c. 31. p. 335.) Yet this exposition of lodicrum novae historiss, is not given byMaracci. (Refutat. Alcoran, p. 544—548.) 6 Procop. Goth. lib. 4. c. 10. Kobad had a favonrite Greek physician, Stephen ofKdessa. (Persic lib. 2. e. 26.) The practice was ancient; and Herodotus relatesthe adventures of JJemocedes of Crotona. (lib. 3. c. 125—137.)