OCR Output I3<5 THE^ HISTORY BOO Kthey renewed their operations againft Pometia, with. _^L . redoubled fury, and augmented ftrength; and whenY.R.ZJX. they had a-new completed their military works, theB. c. 500. foyers being juft on the point of fcaling the walls,the garrifon capitulated. However, although the ci­ty had furrendered, the chiefs of the Auruncians werefrom all parts dragged to execution, with the fame de­gree of cruelty, as if it had been taken by aflault: theother members of the colony were fold by auction:the town was demolifhed, and the land fet up to fale.The confuls obtained a triumph, rather in confidera-tion of their having gratified the people's refentmentby fevere revenge, than of the magnitude of the warwhich they had brought to a conclufion. B.'c!^! XVIII. THE following year the confuls werePoftumus Cominius and Titus Lartius. In that yearfome Sabine youths having, through wantonnefs, ufedviolence to fome courtezans at Rpme, during the ce­lebration of the public games, and a mob affembling,a fcuffle enfued, which might almoft be called a bat­tle; and, from this trifling caufe, matters feemed tohave taken a tendency towards a renewal of hof-'tilities. Befides the apprehenfion of a war with theSabines, there was another affair which created muchuneafineft; undoubted intelligence was received, thatthirty ftates had already formed a confpiracy, at theinftigation of Octavius Mamilius. While the ftateremained in this perplexity, looking forward withanxious apprehenfion to the ifluc of fuch a perilousconjuncture, mention was made, for the firft time, ofcreating a dictator*. But in what year, or who the • The dictator was an officer endued with abfolute authority overall orders auil bodies of men whatever; A ml from whom there was, inthe early times ct the republic, no appeal. He could not hold thecflice longer than fix months, nor go out of Italy, nor could lie marchon horlcback without leave previously obtained from the people. It'became the practice, that one of the confute, in the night, within thetcrritoiy of the'republic, named the dictator; and it was required thattin; nomination Aioulil be confirmed bjr aufjiicts. confuls