OCR Output 812 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. 11. At this time messengers came to Herod, and informed himof what had been done; and wh«n he was come to Daphne byAntioch, they told him of the ill fortune that had befallen hisbrother; which yet he expected, from certain visions that ap­peared to him in his dreams, which clearly foreshowed his bro­ther's death. So he hastened his march; and when he came tomount Libanus, he received about eight hundred of the men ofthat place, having already with him also one Roman legion, andwith these he came to Ptolemais. He also marched thence bynight with his army, and proceeded along Galilee. Here it wasthat the enemy met him, and fought him, and were beaten, andshut up in the same place of strength whence they had sallied outthe day before. So he attacked the place in the morning, but byreason of a great storm that was then very violent, he was ableto do nothing, but drew off his army into the neighbouring vil­lages; yet as soon as the other legion that Antony sent him wascome to his assistance, those that were in garrison in the placewere afraid, and deserted it in the night time. Then did theking march hastily to Jericho, intending to avenge himself onthe enemy for the slaughter of his brother; and when he hadpitched his tents, he made a feast for the principal commanders,and after this collation was over, and he had dismissed his guests,he retired to his own chamber; and here may one see what kind­ness God had for the king, for the upper part of the house felldown when nobody was in it, and so killed none, insomuch thatall the people believed that Herod was beloved of God, since hehad escaped such a great and surprising danger. 12. But the next day six thousand ot the enemy came downfrom the tops of the mountains to fight the Romans, which great­ly terrified them; and the soldiers that were in light armourcame near, and pelted the king's guards that were come out withdarts and stones, and one of them hit him on the side with adart. Antigonus also sent a commander against Samaria, whosename was Pappus, with some forces, being desirous to show theenemy how potent he was, and that he had men to spare in hiswar with them: He sat down to oppose Macherus; but He­rod, when he had taken five cities, took such as were left inthem, being about two thousand, and slew them, and burnt thecities themselves, and then returned to go against Pappus, whowas encamped at a village called Isanas; and there ran in to himmany out of Jericho and Judea, near to which places he was,and the enemy fell upon his men, so stout were they at thistime, and joined battle with them, but he beat them in the fight;and in order to be revenged on them for the slaughter of hisbrother, he pursued them sharply, and killed them as they ra»