OCR Output 126 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. both of mind and hand; and although the want ofxxxv- union and discipline exposes them to their morepowerful neighbours, a bold and intrepid spirit hasanimated the Colchians of every age. In the hostof Xerxes, they served on foot; and their arms were,a dagger or a javelin, a wooden casque, and a bucklerof raw hides. But in their own country the use ofcavalry has more generally prevailed: the meanestof the peasants disdain to walk; the martial noblesare possessed, perhaps, of two hundred horses; andabove five thousand are numbered in the train of theprince of Mingrelia. The Colchian government hasbeen always a pure and hereditary kingdom; andthe authority of the sovereign is only restrained bythe turbulence of his subjects. Whenever they wereobedient, he could lead a numerous army into thefield; but some faith is requisite to believe, that thesingle tribe of the Suanians was composed of two hun­dred thousand soldiers, or that the population of Min­grelia now amounts to four millions of inhabitants *.Revolutions It was the boast of the Colchians, that their an­cestors had checked the victories of Sesostris; andthe defeat of the Egyptian is less incredible than hissuccessful progress as far as the foot of mount Cau­casus. They sunk, without any memorable effort,under the arms of Cyrus; followed in distant warsthe standard of the great king, and presented himevery fifth year with one hundred boys and as manyunder the virgins, the fairest produce of the land-)-. Yet hebefore"8' accepted this gift like the gold and ebony of India,christ 500' the frankincense of the Arabs, or the negroes andivory of ^Ethiopia: the Colchians were not subjectto the dominion of a satrap, and they continued toenjoy the name as well as substance of national in­dependence. After the fall of the Persian empire, * Strabo, 1. xi. p. 705- Lamberti, Relation de la Mingrelie.+ Herodot . 1. iii. c. 97- See, in 1. vii. c- 79, their arms and service in the ex­pedition of Xerxes against Greece.