OCR Output 256 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. The most simple interest was condemned by theXXXV11' clergy of the East and West: but the sense of mu­tual benefit, which had triumphed over the laws ofthe republic, has resisted with equal firmness thedecrees of the church, and even the prejudices ofmankind.injuries. 3. Nature and society impose the strict obligationof repairing an injury; and the sufferer by privateinjustice acquires a personal right and a legitimateaction. If the property of another be intrusted toour care, the requisite degree of care may rise andfall according to the benefit which we derive fromsuch temporary possession; we are seldom made re­sponsible for inevitable accident, but the conse­quences of a voluntary fault must always be imputedto the author*. A Roman pursued and recoveredhis stolen goods by a civil action of theft; they mightpass through a succession of pure and innocent hands,but nothing less than a prescription of thirty yearscould extinguish his original claim. They were re­stored by the sentence of the praetor, and the injurywas compensated by double, or three-fold, or evenquadruple damages, as the deed had been perpetratedby secret fraud or open rapine, as the robber hadbeen surprised in the fact or detected by a subsequentresearch. The Aquilian law-f defended the livingproperty of a citizen, his slaves and cattle, from thestroke of malice or negligence: the highest pricewas allowed that could be ascribed to the domesticanimal at any moment of the year preceding hisdeath; a similar latitude of thirty days was granted the necessary rules and restrictions are inserted in the Pandects (1. xxii. tit. i. ii.).and the Code (1. iv. tit. xxxii. xxxiii.). • Sir William Jones has given an ingenious and rational Essay on the Lawof Bailment (London, 1781, p. 127, hi 8vo.). He is perhaps the only lawyerequally conversant with the year-books of Westminster, the Commentaries ofTJlpian, the Attic pleadings of Isaeus, and the sentences of Arabian and Persiancadhis. •f Noodt (Opp. tom. i. p. 137—172) has composed a separate treatise, ad Le­gem Aquiliam (Pandect. 1. ix. tit. ii.).