OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 171 words when the Roman horse, pushing forwards intothe midst of their ranks, threw the line of infantryinto confusion, and at the same time closed up thepasses by which the Spanish horse were to have ad­vanced to a charge. The Spaniards, therefore, quittingall thoughts of fighting on horseback, dismounted, inorder to engage on foot. When the Roman generalsperceived the enemy's disorder, that they were con­fused and terrified, and their battalions wavering, theyencouraged, they intreated their men, to 'push thembriskly while they were dismayed, and not to suffertheir line to be formed again.' The barbarians couldnot have withstood so furious an onset had not theirprince, Indibilis, dismounting with the cavalry, thrownhimself into the front of the foremost battalions of in­fantry. There the contest was supported for sometime with great fury. At length those who foughtround the king fell, overwhelmed with darts, and hehimself, continuing to make resistance, though readyto expire, was pinned to the earth with a javelin; onwhich their troops betook themselves to flight in all■ parts. The number of the slain was the greater, be­cause the horsemen had not time to remount theirhorses, being vigorously pressed by the Romans, whodid not relax in the least until they had driven themfrom their camp. There fell on that day, of the Spa­niards, thirteen thousand, and about eight hundredwere taken. Of the Romans and their allies, littlemore than two hundred were killed, most of them onthe left wing. The Spaniards who were beaten out ofthe camp, or who had escaped from the battle, at firstdispersed about the country, and afterwards returnedto their respective homes. They were soon after sum­moned thence to an assembly by Mandonius, where,after complaining heavily of their losses, and severelycensuring the advisers of the war, they came to a reso­lution that ambassadors should be sent to Scipio withproposals to make surrender of themselves. Theselaid the blame on Indibilis and the other chiefs, mostof whom had fallen in battle, offering to deliver up