OCR Output . ANTIQUITIES OFTHE'JECT-SW- 457 BOOK XX. Containing the interval of twenty-two years.[From FADUS the Procurator to FLORTJS.] CHAP. I. A Sedition of the PJnladelpiians against the Jews ; and also con足cerning the vestments of the high-priest. \ 1. TTPON the death of king Agrippa, which we have rela-*-^ ted in the foregoing book, Claudius Caesar sent Cas-sius Longinus, as successor to Marcus, out of regard to the me足mory of king Agrippa, who had often desired of him by letters,while he was alive, that he would not suffer Marcus to be anylonger president of Syria. But Fadus, as soon as be was comeprocurator into Judea, found quarrelsome doings between theJews that dwelt in Perea, and the people of Philadelphia, abouttheir borders, at a village called Mia, that was filled with menof a warlike temper ; for the Jews of Perea had taken up armswithout the consent of their principal men, and had destroyedmany of the Philadelphians. When Fadus was informed dfthis procedure, it provoked him very much that they had notleft the determination of the matter to him, if they thought thatthe Philadelphians had done them any wrong, but had rashlytaken up arms against them. So he seized upon three of theirprincipal men, who were also the causes of this sedition, andordered them to be bound, and afterward had one of themslain, whose name was Hannibal, and he banished the other two,Amram and Eleazar. Tholotny also, the arch robber, was,after some time, brought to him bound, and slain, but not tillhe had done a world of mischief to Idumea and the Arabians.And indeed, from that time, Judea was cleared of robberies bythe care and providence of Fadus. He also at this time senf forthe high-priests and the principal citizens of Jerusalem, andthis at the commands of the emperor, and admonished them,that they' should lay up the long garment, and the sacred vest足ment, which it is customary for nobody but the high.priest towear, in the tower of Antonia, that it might be under the powerof the Romans, as it had been formerly. Now the Jews durstnot contradict what he had said, but desired Fadus, however,and Longinus, (which last was come to Jerusalem, and hadbrought a great army with him, out of a fear that the frigid] in足junctions