OCR Output Chap. XIV. ' WARS OF THE JEWS. 291 Safe to Rhodes, a place which had been grievously harassed in thewar with Cassius. He was there received by his friends, Pto­lemy and Sappinius ; and, although he was then in want ofmoney, he fitted up a three decked ship of very great magnitude,wherein he and his friends sailed to * Brundusium, and wentthence to Rome with all speed : where he first of all went toAntony, on account of the friendship his father had with him,and laid before him the calamities of himself and his family, andthat he had left his nearest relations besieged in a fortress, andhad sailed to him through a storm, to make supplication to himfor assistance. 4. Flereupon Antony was moved to compassion at the change thathad been made in Herod's affairs, and this both upon his calling tomind how hospitably he had been treated by Antipater,but moreespecially on account of Herod's own virtue; so he then resolvedto get him made king of the Jews, whom he had himself former­ly made tetrach. The contest also that he had with Antigonuswas another inducement, and that of no lessweight than the greatregard he had for Herod; for he looked upon Antigonus as a se­ditious person, and an enemy of the Romans : and as for Caesar,Herod found him better prepared than Antony, as rememberingvery fresh the wars he had gone through together with his fa­ther, the hospitable treatment he had met with from him, andthe entire good will he had shewed to him: besides the activitywhich he saw in Herod himself. So he called the senate toge­ther, wherein Messalas, and after him Atratinus, produced He­rod before them, and gave a full account of the merits of his fa­ther, and his own good-will to the Romans. At the same timethey demonstrated that Antigonus was their enemy, not only be­cause he soon quarrelled with them, but because he now over­looked theRomans,and took thegovernment by the means of theParthians. These reasons greatly moved the senate; at whichjuncture Antony came in and told them that it was for theiradvantage in the Parthian war that Herod should be king; sothey all gave their votes for it. And, when the senate was se­parated, Antony and Csesar went out, with Herod between them;while the consul and the rest of the magistrates went beforethem in order to offer sacrifices, and to lay the decree in thecapitol : Antony also made a feast for Herod on the first dayof his reign. « This Brentesium or Biundusium has coin still preserved, on which ii writtenSfir^if""t aa Spanheim here informs us. O o 2 CHAP-