OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 435 paid to his memory the same tribute, which he freelygranted to the virtue of his own or the preceding gene­ration. The celestial honours have been liberally bestow­ed by the authority of the popes; but Gregory is the lastof their own order whom they have presumed to inscribein the calendar of saints. Their temporal power insensibly arose from the cala- »nd tr­inities of the times: and the Roman bishops, who have ve™mwt;deluged Europe and Asia with blood, were compelled toreign as the ministers of charity and peace. I. Thechurch of Rome, as it has been formerly observed, wasendowed with ample possessions in Italy, Sicily, and themore distant provinces; and her agents, who were fre­quently subdeacons, had acquired a civil, and even cri­minal, jurisdiction over their tenants and husbandmen.The successor of St. Peter administered his patrimony estates,with the temper of a vigilant and moderate landlord ;dand the epistles of Gregory are filled with salutary in­structions to abstain from doubtful or vexatious law­suits; to preserve the integrity of weights and measures;to grant every reasonable delay, and to reduce the capi­tation of the slaves of the glebe, who purchased the rightof marriage by the payment of an arbitrary fine.* Therent or the produce of these estates was transported tothe mouth of the Tiber, at the risk and expense of thepope; in the use of wealth he acted like a faithful stew­ard of the church and the poor, and liberally applied totheir wants the inexhaustible resources of abstinence andorder. The voluminous account of his receipts and dis- cated the right of Gregory to the entire nonsense of the Dialogues. Dapin (tom. 5.p. 138.) does not think that any one will vouch for the truth of all these miracles; Ishould like to know how many of them he believed himself. d Baronius is unwilling to expatiate on the care of the patrimonies, lest he shouldbetray that they consisted not of kingdoms but farms. The French writers, the Be­nedictine editors, (tom. 4. lib. 3. p. 272, &c.) and Fleury, (tom. 8. p. 29, &c.) arenot afraid of entering into these humble, though useful, details; and the humanity ofFleury dwells on the social virtues of Gregory. * I much suspect that this pecuniary fine on the marriages of villains produced thefamous, and often fabulous, right, de cuissage, de marquette, &c. With the consentof her hushand, a handsome bride might commute the payment in the arms of a younglandlord, and the mutual favour might afford a precedent of local rather than legaltyranny,"