OCR Output 78 S I E G E 0 F G A M A L A . [B. IV. troyed, and punish those that have killed them. For myself,I will endeavor, as I have now done, to go first before youagainst your enemies in every engagement, and to be the lastthat retires from it." 7. So Vespasian encouraged his army by this speech; butfor the people of Gamala, it happened that they took couragefor a little while upon such great and unaccountable successas they had had. But when they considered with themselvesthat they had now no hopes of any terms of accommodation,and reflecting upon it that they could not get away, and thattheir provisions began already to be short, they were exceed­ingly cast down, and their courage failed them: yet did theynot neglect what might be for their preservation, so far asthey were able, but the most courageous among them guardedthose parts of the wall that were beaten down, while the moreinfirm did the same to the rest of the wall that still remainedround the city. And as the Romans raised their banks, andattempted to get into the city a second time, a great manyof them fled out of the city through impracticable valleys,where no guards were placed, as also through subterraneouscaverns; while those that were afraid of being caught, andfor that reason stayed in the city, perished for want of food;for what food they had was brought together from all quarters,and reserved for the fighting-men. 8. And these were the hard circumstances the people ofGamala were in. But now Vespasian went about anotherwork, by-tho-by, during this siege, and that was to subduethose that had seized upon Mount Tabor, a place that lies inthe middle between the great plain and Scythopolis, whosetop is elevated as high as thirty furlongs,1 and is hardly to be 1 These numbers in Joscphus of 30 furlongs ascent to the top of MountTabor, whether we estimate it by winding and gradual, or by the perpendi­cular altitude, and of 26 furlongs in circumference upon the top, as also the15 furlongs for this ascent to Polybius, with Geminus's perpendicular altitudeof almost 14 furlongs, here noted by Dr. Hudson, do none of them agree withthe authentic testimony of Mr. Maundrel, an eye-witness, p. 112, who sayshe was not an hour in getting up to the top of this Mount Tabor, and thatthe arca of the top is an oval of about two furlongs in length and one inbreadth. So I rather suppose Joscphus wroto 3 furlongs for the ascent oraltitude, instead of 30; and 6 furbngs for the circumference at the top, in­