OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 31 lately joined the army. Upon the first intelligenceof the death of Augustus, these men, long addictedto licentiousness, and averse from labour, began topractise upon the ruder minds of their fellow soldiers.The time, they said, was come, when the veteransmight claim their dismission from the service; whenthe young soldier might augment his pay; when thearmy in general might redress their grievances, andretaliate the cruelty of the centurions. It was not,as in Pannonia, a single Pereennius that inflamed themutiny; nor weie these arguments urged to men whosaw on every side of them superior armies, and ofcourse trembled while they mediated a revolt. Therewere numbers of busy incendiaries, and many mouthsto bawl sedition. Their doctrine was, that the fateof Rome was in their hands; by their victories theempire flourished; by their valour Germany was sub足dued; and from the country which they had con足quered, the emperors of Rome were proud to derivea title to adorn their names. XXXII. Csecina saw the danger, but made no ef足fort to suppress it. The malcontents were numerous,and their frenzy above all control; insomuch that thegeneral no longer retained, his usual firmness. Thetumult broke out at once: the soldiers fell upon thecenturions, the old and lasting cause of military dis足content, and in every insurrection the first to fall asacrifice. They seized their victims, and withoutmercy dashed them on the ground; in every legionthe centurions amounted to sixty; an equal numberfell on each of them. The soldiers laid on with theircudgels; they wounded, maimed, and mangled theirdevoted officers; and, to complete their vengeance,cast them dead, or ready to expire, over the intrench-Wents. Numbers were thrown into the Rhine. Onein particular, by name Septimius, fled to the tribunal;and clasping the knees of his general, hoped there tofind a sanctuary. The soldiers demanded him withcontumacy, and Csecina was obliged to give him totheir fury. Cassius Chserea the same who afterwardsimmortalized his name by the death of Caligula, was