OCR Output 24 THE JUDGES. rings as instruments of death. And indeed the most criminalfrauds that are committed in our days are effected by rings.What a happy life did our ancestors lead, and what a state ofinnocence was theirs, in which nothing was ever sealed! But weare now obliged to seal even our meat and drink, to prevent itsbeing stolen.6 This we gain by the legion of slaves, and thecrowd of foreigners, we have about us; so that in consequence ofthe number of our servants, we are obliged to have a person totell us their names. Our ancestors had only one servant each,who took the name of his master, and was called Marcius's boy,or Lucius's boy, &c. and they ate the same food with their master,so there was no occasion to have any thing locked up. But nowwe procure dainties, as if for the very purpose of being pilfered,and, at the same time, persons who may pilfer them; and it is notenough to have our keys sealed, for the rings themselves are takenfrom the fingers of the owners when they are asleep, or lying ontheir death-beds. I do not know at what period it was that themost important transactions of life began to be carried on bymeans of this instrument. We have an example of the importancethat was attached to it by foreigners, in the case of Polycrates, thetyrant of Samos, whose favourite ring being thrown into the sea,was recovered from a fish that they caught; now he was put todeath about the 230th year of our city. But the use of ringsmust have become more generally known at the same time withusury; in proof of this we may cite the custom of the commonpeople, who, whenever they make a bargain, draw the ring fromthe finger, as being the most expeditious mode of making thecontract; so that we may positively affirm that money was firstin use among us, and afterwards rings. But I shall speak ofmoney presently. 7, OF THE OKDERS OF JUDGES.' Rings, when once they became remarkable, served to distinguishthe equestrian order from the people at large, in the same way thatthe tunic distinguished the senate from those who wore rings. 0 This refers to the custom of putting seals upon the store-rooms, cellars,wine-vaults, &c.; they may be considered as equivalent to the locks ofmodern times. 7 " DecurisE;" see Adam, p. 259.