OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL ledging any supreme head, or representative assembly 7+. But theprinciple of the two confederacies was extremely different. A peaceof two hundred years has rewarded the wife and honest policyof the Swiss. An inconstant spirit, the thirst of rapine, and a disre­gard to the most solemn treaties, disgraced the character of the Franks.They invade ■ The Romans had long experienced the daring valour of the Gaul,. people of Lower Germany. Their united strength threatened Gaulwith a more formidable invasion, and required the presence ofGallienus, the heir and colleague of imperial power 75. Whilst thatprince, and his infant son, Saloninus, displayed in the court ofTreves, the majesty of the empire, its armies were ably conductedby their general Posthumus, who, though he afterwards betrayed thefamily of Valerian,, was ever faithful to the great interest of themonarchy. The treacherous language of panegyrics and medals,darkly announces a long series of victories. Trophies and titlesattest (if such evidence can attest) the fame of Posthumus, who isrepeatedly styled The conqueror of the Germans, and the saviourof Gaul 76.. r?.wge Spain, But a single fact, the only one indeed of which we have any dis­tinct knowledge, erases, in a great measure, these monuments ofvanity and adulation. The Rhine, though dignified with thetitle of Safe-guard of the provinces, was an imperfect barrieragainst the daring spirit of enterprise with which the Franks wereactuated. Their rapid devastations stretched from the river to thsfoot of the Pyrenees: nor were they stopped by those mountains.Spain, which had never dreaded, was unable to resist, the inroads ofthe Germans. During twelve years, the greatest part of the reign ofGallienus, that opulent country was the theatre of unequal anddestructive hostilities. Tarragona, the flourishing capital of a peace­ful province, was sacked and almost destroyed 77, and so late asthe days of Orosius, who wrote in the fifth century, wretched cot­tages, scattered amidst the ruins of magnificent cities, still recorded Z- the: