OCR Output 290 ROMAN EMPIRE. the gospel was the way of truth and salvation; but theChristians insensibly forgot both the laws and theexample of their founder; and Mahomet was instructedby the Gnostics to accuse the church, as well as thesynagogue, of corrupting the integrity of the sacredtext." The piety of Moses and of Christ rejoiced inthe assurance of a future prophet, more illustrious thanthemselves: the evangelic promise of the Paraclete, orHoly Ghost, was prefigured in the name, and accom­plished in the person, of Mahomet," the greatest andlast of the apostles of God. fj,e The communication of ideas requires a simili- Koran. tude of thought and language; the discourse ofa philosopher would vibrate without effect on the ear ofa peasant; yet how minute is the distance of their un­derstandings, if it be compared with the contact of aninfinite and a finite mind, with the word of God ex-pres"sed by the tongue or the pen of a mortal? The in­spiration of the Hebrew prophets, of the apostles andevangelists of Christ, might not be incompatible withthe exercise of their reason and memory; and the diver­sity of their genius is strongly marked in the style of theOld and New Testament. But Mahomet was contentwith a character, more humble, yet more sublime, of asimple editor; the substance of the Koran/ according objects est cis similitudo: an expression that may suit with the system of theDocetes; but the commentators believe (Maracci, torn. 2. p. 113—115. 173,Sale, p. 42, 43. 79.) that another man, a friend or an enemy, was crucified in thelikeness of Jesus; a fable which they had read in the gospel of St. Barnabue.and which had been started as early as the time of Irena.us, by some Ebioniteheretics. (Beausobre, Hist, du Manicheisme, torn. 2. p. 35. Mosheim, de Reb.Christ, p. 353.) "This charge is obscurely urged in the Koran: (c. 3. p. 45.) but neither Ma­homet, nor hisfollowers, are sufficiently versed in languages ami criticism to giveany weight or colour to their suspicions. Yet the Arians and Nrstoriann contdrelate some stories, and the illiterate prophet might listen to the bold assertionsof the Manichieans. See Beausobre, torn. 1. p. 291—305. * Among the prophecies of the Old and New Testament, which are pervertedby the fraud or ignorance of the Mussulmans, they apply to the prophet the promiseof the I'<irnrlfte, or Comforter, which had been already usurped by the Memoiristsand Manichawms; (Beausobre, Hiat. Critique dn Manicheisme, torn. 1. p. 163,&c.) and the easy change of letters aipixXvni; for «.-.-< JaaXBTO:, affords the etymologyof the name of Mohammed. (Maracci, torn. 1. part 1. p. 15—28.) T For the Koran, sec d'Herbelot, p. 85—88. Maracci, torn. 1. in Vit . Moham­med, p. 3«—+5. Sale, Preliminary Discourse, p. 56—70,