OCR Output 150 DECLINE AND FALJ. [CHAP. XLI, conquest, true knowledge of the state of the Vandals.8 The longman* in continuance of the Italian war delayed the punishmentajd.'550 of the Visigoths; and the eyes of Theudes were closed—620. before they tasted the fruits of his mistaken policy. Afterhis death, the sceptre of Spain was disputed by a civil war.The weaker candidate solicited the protection of Justi­nian; and ambitiously subscribed a treaty of allianpe,which deeply wounded the independence and happinessof his country. Several cities, bpth' on the ocean and.the Mediterranean, were ceded to the Roman troops,who afterward refused to evacuate those pledges, as itshould seem, either of safety or payment; and as theywere fortified by perpetual supplies from Africa, theymaintained their impregnable stations, for the mischiev­ous purpose of inflaming the civil and religious factionsof the barbarians. Seventy years elapsed before thispainful thorn could be extirpated from the bosom of themonarchy; and as long as the emperors retained anyshare of these remote and useless possessions, their va­nity might number Spain in the list of their provinces,and the successors of Alaric in the rank of their vas­sals.1' .Beiisariu* The error of the Goths who reigned in Italy was lessibTo.^ excusable than that of their Spanish brethren, and theirfta'i'y °f punishment was still more immediate and terrible. Froma.u. 534. a motive of private revenge, they enabled their most dan­gerous enemy to destroy their most valuable ally. Asister of the great Theodoric had been given in marriageto Thrasimond the African king:° on this occasion, thefortress of Lilybaeumd in Sicily was resigned to the Van­dals: and the princess Amalafrida was attended by a a Procopius, Vandal, lib. 1. o. 24. b See the original chronicle of Isidore, and the fifth and sixth books of the Historyof Spain by Mariana. The Romans were finally expelled by Suintila, the king of theVisigoths, (A. D. £21—626.) after their reunion to the Catholic church. c See the marriage and fate of Amalafrida iu Procopins, (Vandal, lib. 1. e. 8, 9.')and in Cassiodorius, (Var. 9. 1.) the expostulation of her royal brother. CompareJikowUe the Chronicle of Victor Tunnunensis. Lilybacum was built by the Carthaginians, Olymp. 95. 4. and in the first Funicwar, a strong situation, and excellent harbour, rendered that flace an important objecttu both nations.