OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. huts within a wooden fence; the fortresses are seated inthe depths of forests; the princely town of Cyta, or CotatiSj consists of two hundred houses, and a stone-edificeappertains only to the magnificence of kings. Twelveships from Constantinople, and about sixty barks, ladenwith the fruits of industry, annually cast anchor on thecoast; and the list of Colchian exports is much increas­ed, since the natives had only slaves and hides to offer inexchange for the corn and salt which they purchasedfrom the subjects of Justinian. Not a vestige can befound of the art, the knowledge, or the navigation, of theancient Colchians: few Greeks desired or dared to pur­sue the footsteps of the Argonauts ; and even the marksof an Egyptian colony are lost on a nearer approach.The rite of circumcision is practised only by the Maho-^metans of the Euxine; and the curled hair and swarthycomplexion of Africa no longer disfigure the most per­fect of the human race. It is in the adjacent climates ofGeorgia, Mingrelia, and Circassia, that nature has placed,at least to our eyes, the model of beauty, in the shapeof the limbs, the colour of the skin, the symmetry of thefeatures, and the expression of the countenance.11 Ac­cording to the destination of the two sexes, the menseemed formed for action, the women for love; and theperpetual supply of females from mount Caucasus haspurified the blood, and improved the breed, of thesouthern nations of Asia. The proper district of Min­grelia, a portion only of the ancient Colchos, has longsustained an exportation of twelve thousand slaves. Thenumber of prisoners and criminals would be inadequateto the annual demand; but the common people are ina state of servitude to their lords, the exercise of fraudor rapine is unpunished in a lawless community; andthe market is continually replenished by the abuse of d Bufion (Hist. Nat. torn. 3. p. 433—437.) collects the unanimous suffrage of natu­ralists and travellers. If, in the time of Herodotus, they were iu truth ftsKay^fOEsand oiAotji^e; (and be had observed them with care), this precious fact is an exampleof the influence of climate on a foreign colony.