OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of gold. A third pavilion was supported by columns ofgilt wood; a bed of pure and massy gold was raised onfour peacocks of the same metal; and before the entranceof the tent, dishes, basins, and statues of solid silver, andadmirable art, were ostentatiously piled in waggons, themonuments of valour rather than of industry. WhenDisabul led his armies against the frontiers of Persia, hisRoman allies followed many days the march of the Turk­ish camp, nor were they dismissed till they had enjoyedtheir precedency over the envoy of the great king, whoseloud and intemperate clamours interrupted the silence ofthe royal banquet. The power and ambition of Chos-roes cemented the union of the Turks and Romans, whotouched his dominions on either side: but those distantnations, regardless of each other, consulted the dictatesof interest, without recollecting the obligations of oathsand treaties. While the successor of Disabul celebratedhis father's obsequies, he was saluted by the ambassadorsof the emperor Tiberius, who proposed an invasion of Per­sia, and sustained with firmness, the angry, and perhapsthe just, reproaches of that haughty barbarian. "Yousee my ten fingers (said the great khan, and he appliedthem to his mouth). You Romans speak with as manytongues, but they are tongues of deceit and perjury;To me you hold one language, to my subjects another:and the nations are successively deluded by your perfi­dious eloquence. You precipitate your allies into war.and danger, you enjoy their labours, and you neglectyour benefactors. Hasten your return, inform yourmaster that a Turk is incapable of uttering or forgivingfalsehood, and that he shall speedily meet the punish­ment which he deserves. While he solicits my friend­ship with flattering and hollow words, he is sunk to aconfederate of my fugitive Varchonites. If I condescendto march against those contemptible slaves, they willtremble at the sound of our whips; they will be tram­pled, like a nest of ants, under the feet of my innum"- q 2