OCR Output A. D. 17.] 113 OF TACITUS. farinas, had served in the Roman camp among theauxiliary troops. He deserted afterwards, and col­lected together a body of freebooters, accustomed tolive by rapine, and by consequence addicted to a lifeof warfare. Tacfarinas had acquired some rudimentsof military discipline. He formed his, rash leviednumbers into companies of foot and squadrons ofhorse. Having drawn over to his party the Musula-nians, a nation bordering on the wilds of Africa,where they led a roving life, without towns, or fixedhabitations, he was no longer the chief of a band ofrobbers, but with a higher title, the general of a peo­ple. The neighbouring Moors, a race of savages,under the command of Mazippa, jqined the confe­deracy. The two chiefs agreed to divide their troopsinto two separate bodies. Tacfarinas, with the flowerof the army formed a regular camp, arming his menafter the Roman manner, and training them to theart of war; while Mazippa, at the head of his light-armed freebooters, ravaged the country, and markedhis way with fire and sword. The Cinithians, a na­tion by no means contemptible, were forced to enterinto the league. At length, Furius Camillus, proconsul of Africayadvanced to check the insurgents, at the head of alegion, and such of the allies as still remained underhis command. With this handful of men, a slenderforce when compared to the numbers of the Moorsand Numidians, the Roman general determined tohazard a decisive action. His chief care was, not tostrike the enemy with terror. Their fears, he knew,would make them avoid an action, and protract thewax. The barbarians hoped to gain an easy victory,and by their hopes were led on to their destruction.Camillus drew up in order of battle. His legion form­ed the centre : in the wings were stationed the lightcohorts, and two squadrons of horse. Nor did Tac­farinas decline the conflict. He engaged, and was to­tally routed. By this victory the name of Camillus,after an interval of many years, seemed to retrieve itsancient honours. From him, who was the delivererof Rome, and his son, who emulated the father's exr K 2