OCR Output CHAP. 51. ROMAN HISTORY. 385 CHAP. LI. The Trial of the mutinous Soldiers. Contests between the, Orders. Q- FABIUS VILULANUS, being declared inter-rex.held the comitia; when A. Cornelius Cossus, and L. Fu-rius Medullinus, were created consuls. In the beginningof their administration, the senate enacted, that the tri­bunes should, without loss of time, lay the affair of theenquiry into the murder of Posthumius, before the as­sembly of the people; and that it should be left to thepeople to appoint whom thev pleased to preside in thatenquiry. The commons, .with the concurrence of thewhole body of the people, committed the charge of thismatter to the two consuls. They executed their com­mission with great lenity and moderation; and the fewexamples thai were made, are generally believed to haveprevented the execution of their sentence by a voluntarydeath. Yet all these precautions did not stop the mouthsof the people, who complained bitterly, that the billswhich were brought in for their account, were sufferedto ly on the table neglected and protracted for so manyytars, whilst one for shedding their blood, and bringingthem to punishment, was put in execution directly, andwith rigour. Now was the time, after the punishment ofthe seditious soldiers, for soothing the minds of the peo­ple, by a distribution of the lands of Vola;. The senatorsin that case, would have diminished the ardour of thepeople, in pushing the Agrarian law, which was calcu­lated to dispossess the Patricians of the property of thepublic they had unjustly usurped. The people, at thattime, were much exasperated with this provoking con­sideration, that the nobility not only persisted' obstinate­ly in retaining the public lands, of which they were vio­lent possessors, but also prevented the distribution ofthose lately taken from the enemy, .now vacant, -whichwould also soon become the prey of a few Patricians, asthe rest had done before. The same year, the consul Furius led the legionsagainst the Volsci, who were ravaging Ae territory of