OCR Output 206 LIVY. shouts of the soldiers: and that it might have been wellimagined that there was not a man left hehind either inItaly or in Sicily. Scipio took on himself the chargeof embarking the men in a regular manner. The sea­men were kept in order on board the ships by CaiusLaelius, who had the command of the fleet. The careof shipping the stores was allotted to Marcus Pompo-nius, the pretor. A quantity of food sufficient for forty-five days was put on board: as much of it ready-dressedas would serve for fifteen days. When all were em­barked, the general sent round boats to bring the pilotsand masters, with two soldiers out of each ship, to theforum, to receive orders. Being there assembled, hefirst inquired whether they had put water on board formen and cattle, and for as many days as they hadcorn: they answered that there was water on boardfor forty-five days. He then charged the soldiers that,attentive to their duty, they should behave themselvesquietly, so that the seamen might perform their busi­ness without interruption; informed them that he andLucius Scipio, with twenty ships of war, would protectthe transports on the right division ; and Caius Laalius,commander of the fleet, and Marcus Porcius Cato, thequest or, with the same number, those on the left: thatthe ships of war would carry each a single light, thetransports two; that the signal by night, on board theship of the commander-in-chief, would consist of threelights. The pilots had orders to steer to Emporium,where the land is remarkably fertile; consequentlythe country abounds with plenty of all things. Theinhabitants are unwarlike, as is generally the casewhere the soil is rich; and Scipio supposed that theymight be overpowered before succor could arrive fromCarthage. Having issued these orders, he commandedthem to return to their ships, and on the signal beinggiven next day, with the favor of the gods, to setsail. 26. Many Roman fleets had sailed from Sicily, andfrom that same harbor; but never did any equipmentafford so grand a spectacle, either in the present war