OCR Output Chap. XVII. WARS OF THE JEWS. 41T thought it would be a reproach to them, and besides, if theyshould give it them, they durst not depend upon it; so they de­serted their camp, as easily taken, and ran away to the royaltowers, that called Hippicus, that called Phas&lus, and that call­ed Mariamne. But Manahem and his party fell upon the placewhence the soldiers were fled, and slew as many of them as theycould catch, before they got up to the towers, and plunderedwhat they left behind them, and set fire to their camp. Thiswas executed on the sixth day of the month Gorpieus, [Elul].9. But on the next day the high-priest was caught, where hehad concealed himself in an aqueduct; he was slain, togetherwith Hezekiah his brother, by the robbers: hereupon the sedi­tious besieged the towers, and kept them guarded, lest any oneof the soldiers should escape. Now the overthrow of the placesof strength, and the death of the high-priest Ananias, so puffedup Manahem, that he became barbarously cruel, and, as hethought he had no antagonist to dispute the management of af­fairs with him, he was no better than an insupportable tyrant:but Eleazar and his party, when words had passed betweenthem, how " It was not proper when they revolted from the" Romans, out of the desire of liberty, to betray that liberty to" any of their own people, and to bear a lord, who though he" should be guilty of no violence, was yet meaner than thern-" selves; as also, that, in case they were obliged to set some one" over their public affairs, it was fitter they should give that" privilege to any one rather than to him," they made an as­sault upon him in the temple; for he went up thither to worshipin a pompous manner, and adorned with royal garments, and hadhis followers with him in their armour. But Eleazar and hisparty fell violently upon him, as did also the rest of the people,and taking up stones to attack him withal, they threw them atthe sophister, and thought, that if he were once ruined, the en­tire sedition would fall to the ground. Now Manahem and hisparty made resistance for a while, but when they perceived thatthe whole multitude were falling upon them, they fled whichway every one was able, those that were caught were slain, andthose that hid themselves were searched for. A few there wereof them who privately escaped to Masada, among whom wasEleazar, the son of Jairus, who wasof kin to Manahem,andactedthe part of a tyrant at Masada afterward: as for Manahem him­self, he ran away to the place called Ophla, and there lay skulk­ing in private; but they took him alive, and drew him out be­fore them all; they then tortured him with many sorts of tor­ments, and after all slew him, as they did by those that wereVOL. III. 3 G captains