OCR Output 244 THE DECLINE AND FALL by the senate and provinces. It is reported, that immediately afterhis reluctant acceptance of the title of Augustus, he had assuredPhilip by a private message, of his innocence and loyalty, solemnlyprotesting, that on his arrival in Italy, he would resign the imperialornaments and return to the condition of an obedient subject.His professions might be sincere. But in the situation where for­tune had placed him, it was scarcely possible that he could eitherforgive or be forgiven 3.^■"st'the" ^e emPeror L>ecius had employed a few months in the worksGoths. of peace and the administration of justice, when he was summoned'to the banks of the Danube by the invasion of the Goths. Thisis the first considerable occasion, in which history mentions thatgreat people, who afterwards broke the Roman power, sacked thecapitol, and reigned in Gaul, Spain, and Italy. So memorable wasthe part which they acted in the subversion of the Western empire,that the name of Goths, is frequently but inproperly used as ageneral appellation of rude and warlike barbarism.^hin of the jn the beginning of the sixth century, and after the conquest ofScandinavia. Italy, the Goths, in possession of present greatness, very naturallyindulged themselves in the prospect of past and of future glory. Theywished to preserve the memory of their ancestors, and to transmitto posterity their own atchievements. The principal minister of thecourt of Ravenna, the learned Cassiodorus, gratified the inclinationof the conquerors in a Gothic history, which consisted of twelvebooks, now reduced to the inperfect abridgment of Jornandes +.These writers passed with the most artful conciseness over the mis­fortunes of the nation, celebrated its successful valour, and adornedthe triumph with many Asiatic trophies, that more properly belongedto the people of Scythia. On the faith of ancient songs, theuncertain, but the only, memorials of barbarians, they deduced thefirst origin of the Goths, from the vast island, or peninsula, of Scan­dinavia 5. That extreme country of the North was not unknown to­