OCR Output Chap. II. WARS OF THE JEWS. 255 in other respects, but was overcome by him as to the Just af­fection [he had for his relations] ; for when Ptolemy was dis­tressed, he brought forth his mother, and his brethren, and setthem upon the wall, and beat them with rods in every body's-sight, and threatened, that unless he would go away immediate­ly, he would throw them down headlong ; at which sight Hyr-canus's commiseration and concern were too hard for his anger.But his mother was not dismayed, neither at the stripes she re­ceived, nor at the death with which she was threatened ; butstretched out her hands, and prayed her son not to be moved withthe injuries that she had; suffered to spare the wretch ; since itwas to her better to die by the means of Ptolemy than to liveever so long, provided he might be punished for the injuries hehad done to their family. Now John's case was this ; when heconsidered the courage of his mother, and heard her entreaty,he set about his attacks ; but when he saw her beaten, and tornto pieces withthe stripes, he grew feeble, and was entirely over­come by his affections. And as the seige was delayed by thismeans, the year of rest came on, upon which the Jews rest everyseventh year as they do on every seventh day. On this year,therefore, Ptolemy was freed from being besieged, and slew thebrethren of John, with their mother, and fled to Zeno, who wa*also called Cotylas, who was the tyrant of Philadelphia. 5. And now Antiochus was so angry at what he had sufferedfrom Simon, that he made an expedition into Judea, and satdown before Jerusalem, and besieged Hyrcanus ; but Hyrcanusopened the sepulchre of David, who was the richest of all kings,and took thence about three thousand talents in money, and' in­duced Antiochus, by the promise of three thousand talents, toraise the siege-. Moreover, he was the first of the Jews that hadmoney enough, and began to hire foreign auxiliaries also. 6. However, at another time, when Antiochus was gone uponan expedition against the Medes, and so gave Hyrcanus an op­portunity of being revenged upon him, he immediately madean attack upon the cities of Syria, as thinking what proved tabe the case with them, that they would find them empty of goodtroops. So he took Medeba and Samea, with the towns in theirneighbourhood, as also Sechem and Gerizaim; and besides thess[he subdued] the nation of the Chutheans, who dwelt round aboutthat temple which was built in imitation of the temple at Jeru­salem ; he also took a great many other cities of Idumea, withAdoreon and Marissa. 7. He also proceeded as far as Samaria, where is now thecity Sebaste, which was built by Herod the king, and encom­passed it all round with a wall, and set his sons, Aristobulus and Anti'gonuSj