OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 11 ing the vanguard of the praetor Gaius Plautius, Viriathushad the skill to lure him over to the right bank of the Tagus,and there to defeat him so emphatically that the Romangeneral went into winter quarters in the middle of summer—on which account he was afterwards charged before thepeople with having disgraced the Roman community, andwas compelled to live in exile. In like manner the armyof the governor Claudius Unimanus was destroyed, that ofGaius Negidius was vanquished, and the level country waspillaged far and wide. Trophies of victory, decorated withthe insignia of the Roman governors and the arms of thelegions, were erected on the Spanish mountains; peopleat Rome heard with shame and consternation of the vic­tories of the barbarian king. The conduct of the Spanishwar was now committed to a more trustworthy officer, theconsul Quintus Fabius Maximus JSmilianus, the second sonof the victor of Pydna (609). But the Romans no longer 145.ventured to send the experienced veterans, who had just re­turned from Macedonia and Asia, forth anew to the detestedSpanish war; the two legions, which Maximus brought withhim, were recent levies and scarcely more to be trustedthan the old utterly demoralized Spanish army. After thefirst conflicts had again issued favourably for the Lusita-nians, the prudent general kept together his troops for theremainder of the year in the camp at Urso (Osuna, south­east from Seville) without accepting the enemy's offer ofbattle, and only took the field afresh in the following year(610), after his troops had been qualified for fighting by 144.pettier warfare; he was then enabled to maintain the supe­riority, and after successful feats of arms went into winterquarters at Corduba. But when the cowardly and incapablepraetor Quinctius took the command in room of Maximus, theRomans again suffered defeat after defeat, and their generalin the middle of summer shut himself up in Corduba, whilethe bands of Viriathus overran the southern province (611). 143. His successor, Quintus Fabius Maximus Servilianus, theadopted brother of Maximus JSmilianus, was sent to thepeninsula with two fresh legions and ten elephants; he en­deavoured to penetrate iuto the Lusitanian country, butafter a series of indecisive conflicts and an assault on theRoman camp, which was with difficulty repulsed, he foundhimself compelled to retreat to the Roman territory. Viri­athus followed him into the province, but, as his troops after