OCR Output EDITOR'S PREFACE. v phecy among them to the Twelfth of Nero, he has let us know the state of affairs in Judeaduring the time of the Evangelical history; and he had before done the like in the first twobooks of the Jewish War. What he has therein said of Herod and his sons, of the Romangovernors in Judea, the Jewish sects and their principles, the manners of the Jewish people,and likewise concerning the Samaritans, greatly confirms and illustrates the history of our Evan­gelists." Dr. W. Wotton says of Josephus, " He is certainly an author very justly to be valued, not­withstanding all his faults. His history of the Jewish war is a noble demonstration of thetruth of the Christian religion: by shewing, in the most lively manner, how the prophecies ofour blessed Lord, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, were literally fulfilled in theirfullest extent." Preface to Miscellaneous Discourses relating to the Traditions and Usages of theScribes and Pharisees, p. 49 In reference to the account Josephus gives of the destruction of Jerusalem, ArchbishopTillotson says, " We have this matter related, not by a Christian, (who might be suspected ofpartiality and a design to have paralleled the event with our Saviour's prediction,) but by aJew, both by nation and religion, who seems designedly to have avoided, as much as possiblyhe could, the very mention of the Christian name, and all particulars relating to our Saviour,though no historian was ever more punctual in other things." Vol. ii. p. 563. Serm. 186. Similar to this is the testimony of M. Tillemont. "God has been pleased to chuse for ourinformation in this history, not an apostle, nor any of the chief men of the church, but an ob­stinate Jew, whom neither the view of the virtue and miracles of the Christians, nor theknowledge of the law, nor the ruin of his religion and country, could induce to believe in andlove the Messiah, who was all the expectation of the nation. God has permitted it so to be,that the testimony which this historian gave to an event, of which he did not comprehend themystery, might not be rejected either by Jews or Heathens: and that none might be able tosay, that he had altered the truth of things to favour Jesus Christ and his disciples." Ruinedes Juifs. Art. I. p. 722. Dr. Doddridge, in his notes on Matt. xxiv. says, « Christian writers have always with greatreason represented Josephus's History of the Jewish War, as the best commentary upon thischapter. And many have justly remarked it, as a wonderful instance of the care of Providencefor the Christian church, that he, an eye-witness, and in these things of so great credit, should(especially in so extraordinary a manner) be preserved to transmit to us a collection of im­portant facts, which so exactly illustrate this noble prophecy in almost every particular cir­cumstance." Isidore of Pelusium, who flourished about the year 412, in one of his epistles, has theseexpressions; "if you have a mind to know what punishment the wicked Jews underwent, whoill treated the Christ, read the history of their destruction, written by Josephus, a Jew in­deed, but a lover of truth, that you may see the wonderful story, such as no time ever sawbefore since the beginning of the world, nor ever shall see. For that none might refuse togive credit to the history of their incredible and unparalleled sufferings, truth found out, nota stranger, but a native, and a man fond of their institutions, to relate them in a doleful strain." Eusebius often quotes Josephus, and, in his Ecclesiastical History, has transcribed fromhim several articles at large. Having rehearsed from the gospels divers of our Lord's pre­