OCR Output aN. 1492.] 151 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. burnt their chariots, and passed all over theircountry without opposition; no one daring tomeet him in battle; but he still went on, ta­king their cities by siege, and killing what­ever he took. The filth year was now past;* and therewas not one of the Canaanites remained anylonger; excepting some that had retired toplaces of great strength. So Joshua removedhis camp to the mountainous country, and {ilaced the tabernacle in the city of Shiloh;for that seemed a fit place for it, because ofthe beauty of its situation; until such timesas their affairs would permit them to build atemple. And from thence he went to She-chem, together with all the people, and raisedan altar where Moses had previously di­rected. Then did he divide the army, andplaced one half of them on Mount Geriz-zim, and the other half on Mount Ebal; onwhich mountain the altar was; he also placedthere the tribe of Levi, and the priests. Andwhen they had sacrificed, and denounced theblessings and the curses, and had left themengraven upon the altar, they returned toShiloh. And now Joshua was old, and saw that thecities of the Canaanites were not easily to betaken; not only because they were situatedin such strong places, but because of thestrength of the walls themselves; which be­ing built round about, the natural strength ofthe places on which the cities stood, seemedcapable of repelling their enemies from be­sieging them. For when the Canaanites hadlearned, that the Israelites came out of Egypt,in order to destroy them, they were busy allthat time in making their cities strong. Sohe gathered the people together at Shiloh;and when they, with great zeal and haste,were come thither, he observed to them, whatprosperous successes they had already had,and what glorious things had been done; andthose such as were worthy of that God whoenabled them to do those things, and worthyof the virtue of those laws which they fol­lowed. He took notice also, thatJ thirty-oneof those kings that ventured to give thembattle were overcome; and every army, howgreat soever it were that confided in their * An. 1487.t Josh, xviii. 1. power, and fought with them, was utterly de­stroyed; 60 that not so much as any of theirposterity remained. And as for the cities,since some of them were taken, but the othersmust be taken in length of time by long sieges;both on account of the strength of their walls,and of the confidence the inhabitants had inthem; he thought it reasonable that thosetribes that came along with them from beyondJordan, and had partaken of the dangers theyhad undergone, being their own kindred,should now be dismissed and sent home; andshould have thanks for the pains they hadtaken together with them. As also he thoughtit reasonable, that they should send one manout of every tribe, and he such as had thetestimony of extraordinary virtue, who shouldmeasure the land faithfully, and without anyfallacy or deceit should inform them of itsreal magnitude. Now Joshua, when he had thus spoken,found that the multitude approved of his pro­posal. So he sent men to measure theircountry, and sent with them some geometri­cians, who could not easily fail of ascertain­ing the truth, on account of their skill in thatart. He also gave them a charge to estimatethe measure of that part of the land that wasmost fruitful, and what was not so good. Forsuch is the nature of the land of Canaan, thatone may see large plains, and such as are ex­ceedingly fit to produce fruit, which if theywere compared with other parts of the coun­try, might be reckoned exceeding fruitful;yet, in comparison with the fields about Jeri­cho, and those that belong to Jerusalem, theywill appear to be of no account at all. Andalthough it happen, that these people havebut very little of this sort of land, and that itis in general, mountainous also, yet does itnot come behind other parts on account of itsexceeding goodness and beauty. For whichreason, Joshua thought that the land for thetribes should be divided by estimation of itsgoodness, rather than its extent, it often hap­pening that one acre of some sort of land wasequivalent to a thousand other acres. Nowthe men that were sent, which were in num­ber ten, travelled all about, and made an es­timation of the land; and in the seventh J Josh. xii. 8—24.