OCR Output 'SARMATIA. 917 SARMATIA. Fr Agalkyrsi, see Hunni. The Sargatii arc:tiooeJ in Ptolemy. Sutii of tlie Tanaitae came the Osuli (? SuMrziXotor), reaching as far as the Roxolani, i. e.•iirinr parts of Cherson and Ekaterinoslav.Ketvam the Roxolani and Hamaxobii the■itUni and Exobugitae. The statement of PlinyJ the tlamaxobii were Aorsi, combined with sitni-■' of name between Aorsi and Ersad, will notf m here. The Ersad are in the governments/Vua and Tandov; the direction of the Ha-uAti u more westward. Rhakalani seems buttitr form of Roxolani. In Exo-pt^-itae the■Us syllable may give us the root Bug, the:sn name of the Hypanis. It has been surmisedI ttu is tbe case with Sa-6o£-ae, and Costo-ftoc-i.■ fatality would suit Ittwceu the Peucini and Bastemae (this differ-'aetween two nations otherwise identified creates>t ^ication) lie the Carpiani, above whom thesi aad Budini. Ik Carpi must bare been near or on the Carpa- • Mtmttains. They appear as a substantive * in the later history of Rome, in alliance withSsnmtae. &c. of the Dacian frontier. We havert&na Carpica Arpi; Carpiani and Kapvotd->bk-h Zeoss renders Carpathian Dacians) areil forms of this name [CaRi'l]. They, alonglift Costoboci, Armadoci, and Astingi, Hppeur ase»t important frontagers of Northern Dacia. tbe Bastemae and Roxolani tbe Chnni,beir own mountains (fori ra ibta 6prj)md Kavari, and along tbe lake•b) of Byke the Torekkadae, and along thetueui Course ('Ax*AAewr tpdpoy) the Tauro-ar.and south of the Bastarnae in the directioneu the Tagri, and south of them the Tyran- and Tyrangetae, see «. rr. and trn looks like a modified form of Zagora (tra-<—). a common Slavonic geographical name,able to many localities. t Amadori occupied Ilia Son, or the Mons ■ rat of Ptolemy. There was also a A/jurfU<a. This jnsta-position of a mountain andojJ, or swamp, or fen) should fix their locality<M*ly than il does. Their history connectswith tbe Coeloboci. (Zeuss, *- nr. Costo-.tnooori.) The physical conditions, how-r»«*e out lea* clearly than our present topo-i> ti knowledge of Podolia, Minsk, &c. explains,w Xavari see Nkiki. ■ tame Chnni is important. [See HunNl ]Totk-aad-ae and Kxo-bug-itae we have twoUs of an apparent cornponnd that frequently> la rKytbo-Sarrnatian geography—Tyn-gtt-ae,'«!.> ioi-i. Sa-boc-L The geography is quitei'll lt in the presence of these elements. lks. —From the Vistula eastwards, the Chro-i- Khubim, the Turuntus, the Chersinos,—thethe modem names being the Pregel, Memel,At, and Neva. For the drainage of the$ra, see Sctthi »• rnsci*.—Peticw, the Montes Amadoci, theRu-imai, the Mons Alaunus, the Mons Car-s, the Venedic mountains, the Rhipaean moun-None of these are definitely identified. It isk to say how Ptolemy named tbe most hu­ll rang* of so Bat a tract as Russia, viz., tbeu If usifiii'ai On the other hand, the names of | his text imply more mountains than really exist.All his mountains were, probably, spurs of the Car­pathians, just as in Sarmatia Asiatics they were ofCaucasus. Towns.—See Scythia. II. SARMATIA ASIATICA. The boundaries are—the Tanais, from its sourcesto its mouth, European Sarmatia from the sourcesof the Tanais northwards, the Maeotis and Cim­merian Bosporus, the Euxine as far as the riverCorax, the range of Caucasus, the Caspian as faras the river Soana, the Volga as far as its bend(Scythia being on the east of that river), — and onthe north an Unknown Land. Without knowing thepoint at which this terra incognita begins, it isimpossible to give the northern limits of SarmatiaAsiatica. It is included, however, in the govern­ments of Caucasus, Circassia, Astrakhan, lionKosaks, Saratov, Simbirsk, Kazan, Vintka, Kos­troma, Vladimir (?), Nizhni Novogorod, Jiiazan(?), Tambov, and Penza ; all the governments, inshort, on the water system of the Volga; a view whichmakes the watershed between the rivers that emptythemselves into the White Sea and the rivers thatfall into the Caspian and Euxine a convenient pro­visional boundary. For the obscure geography of Asiatic Sarmatia,the bend of the Tanais is our best starting point.To the north of it dwelt the Pcrierbidi, a greatnation; to the south the Iaxamatae, the former inDon Kosaks, Voronezh, and Tambftv, Saratov, thelatter in Astrakhan. North of the Perierbidi comethe Asaei, the Snardeni, the Zacatae, the Hip-pophagi Sarmatae, the Modocae, tbe Royal Sar-matians, the Hyperborean Sarmatians, the Un­known Land. In Kazan and Simbirsk we may placethe Cliaenides, and on the east of the Volga thePhtbeirophagi and Mated. The Nno-iorm \upamust be at the mouth of the Volga. If so, theorder in which the names have been given is fromnorth to south, and the Phtbeirophagi are inEastern Kazan, the Materi in Saratov. The remaining populations are all (or nearly all)in the governments of Caucasus and Circassia. inthe northern spurs of the Caucasian range. Theyare the Siraceni, the Psessii, the Thymeotae, theTurambae, the Asturicani, the Arichi, the Zicchi,the Conapoeui, the Meieibi, the Agoritae, theMelanchlaeni, the Sapothmeni, the Scymnitae, thoAmazones, the Sunani, the Sacani, the Orinaei,the Vali, the Servi, the Tusci, the Diduri, theVodae, the Olondae, the Isondae, the Gerrhi. TheAchaei, Kerketi, Heniochi, Suanocolchi, and Sa-naraci are truly Caucasian, and belong to thegeography of tlie mountain range rather than thetSarmatian plains and steppes — for such they amin physical geography, and such was the view ofStraho, so far as he noticed fannatia at all. It is difficult to determine the source of Ptolemy'sinformation, difficult to say in what language weare to seek for the meaning of his names. Thereal populations, as they actually exited, were notvery different from those of the Herodotean Scythia;yet the Herodotean names are wanting. These were,probably, Scythian, — the northern populations towhich they applied being Uprian. Are the namesnative? For the parts due north of Caucasus theymay be so; indeed it is possible that the greaternumlier of them may be due to a Caucasian source.At the present time, when wc are fairly supplied with 3 N 3