OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 471 a daughter of the emperor. It was more difficult totrust the fidelity of Crispus, whose recent services wererecompensed by the command of the Cappadocian army.His arrogance soon provoked, and seemed to excuse theingratitude of his new sovereign. In the presence of thesenate, the son-in-law of Phocas was condemned to em­brace the monastic life; and the sentence was j ustified bythe weighty observation of Heraclius, that the man whohad betraved his father, could never be faith ful to his friend.h Even after his death the republic was afflicted by the chosroescrimes of Phocas, which armed with a pious cause the the Romanmost formidable of her enemies. According to the AinDr.e603,friendly and equal forms of the Byzantine and Persian &c-courts, he announced his exaltation to the throne; andhis ambassador Lilius, who had presented him with theheads of Maurice and his sons, was the best qualified todescribe the circumstances of the tragic scene.' How­ever it might be varnished by fiction or sophistry, Chos­roes turned with horror from the assassin, imprisoned thepretended envoy, disclaimed the usurper, and declaredhimself the avenger of his father and benefactor. Thesentiments of grief and resentment which humanity wouldfeel, and honour would dictate, promoted, on this oc­casion, the interest of the Persian king; and his inte­rest was powerfully magnified by the national and re­ligious prejudices of the Magi and satraps. In astrain of artful adulation, which assumed the languageof freedom, they presumed to censure the excess ofhis gratitude and friendship for the Greeks; a nationwith, whom it was dangerous to conclude either peace oralliance ; whose superstition was devoid of truth and jus­tice, and who must be incapable of any virtue, since they h See the tyranny of Phocas and the elevation of Heraclius, in Chron. Paschal,p. 380—383. Theophanes, p. 242—250. Nicephoros, p. 3—7. Cedrenns, p. 404—407. Zonaras, ton). 2. lib. 14. p. 80—82. 'Theiiph)lact, lib. 8. o. 15. The life of Manrice was composed about the year628, (lib. 8. c. 13.) by Theophylact Simocatta, ex-prefeol, a native of Egypt. Pho-tias, who gives an ample extract of the work, (Cod. 65. p. 81—100.) genlly re­proves the affectation and allegory of the style. His preface is a dialogue betweenPhilosophy and History; tbey seat themselves under a plane-tree, and the lattertouches her lyre.