OCR Output IOME ACCOUNT 01 DR. SMITH. •4 The History of the Peloponnesi an War, translated from" the Greek of Thucydides." The Translator has addedthree preliminary Discourses; on the Life of Thucydides;on his Qualifications as a Historian; and a Survey of hisHistory. In these Discourses, as well as in the Life of Lon-ginus, he has abundantly proved his own excellence in origi­nal composition. This work has been several times reprintedin 8vo. and was highly recommended by the Reviewers andothers on its first publication, and since that period. In January, 1758, the Deanry of Chester became vacantby the decease of the Rev. Thomas Brooke, LL. D. Therewere many candidates for this dignity: but Mr. Smith was sowell supported by several of his illustrious friends, especiallyby his noble patron the carl of Derby, whose interest waspowerful at Court, and who prevailed on the Right Hon. EarlGranville, then Lord President of the Council, and on hisGrace the Duke of Newcastle, to unite with him in recom­mending Mr. Smith; that his Majesty King George the Secondpresented him to the Deanry. He now took the Degree ofDoctor in Divinity. On the 28th of July, Doctor Smith re­ceived institution, and was installed the same day by thatlearned and accomplished preacher, the Rev. Mr. Mapletoft,Vicedean. On the 30th day of April, 1766, the Dean wasinstituted to the Rectory of Handley near Chester, on thepresentation of the Dean and Chapter. Doctor Smith had, since he left the University, if we exceptshort excursions, chiefly resided first with my Lord of Derby,afterwards at the Rectory of Trinity in Chester, then one yearin Essex, and of late at St. George's in Liverpool, from whencehe went occasionally to Chester Cathedral. But about thebeginning of the year 1767, he resolved to resign St. George'sChurch, and wrote a letter to that effect to the body corporate :which letter produced the following resolution. " At a Council held this fourth day of February, 1767. " On Mr. Dean Smith's Letter this day to the Council, inti-" matinghis desire of resigning his Chaplainship of St. George'6