OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 189 of battle was fixed. The part of maintaining the fightwas committed to the Sainnites and Gauls ; and theEtrurians and Umbrians were ordered to attack theRoman camp during the heat of the engagement. Thisplan was frustrated by three Clusian deserters, whocame over by night to Fabius ; and after disclosing theabove designs were sent back with presents, in orderthat they might discover and bring intelligence of anynew scheme which should be formed. The consulsthen wrote to Flavins and Postumius to move theirarmies; the one from the Faliscian, the other from theVatican country, towards Clusium ; and to ruin theenemy's territory by every means in their power. Thenews of these depredations drew the Etrurians fromSentinum to protect their own region. The consuls,in their absence, practised every means to bring on anengagement. For two days they endeavored, by seve­ral attacks, to provoke the enemy to fight; in whichtime, however, nothing worth mention was performed.A few fell on each side ; but still the minds of the Ro­mans were so irritated as to wish for a general engage­ment, yet nothing decisive was hazarded. On the thirdday both parties marched out their whole force to thefield : here, while the armies stood in order of battle,a hind, chased by a wolf from the mountains, ranthrough the plain between the two lines: there theanimals turned their' courses to different sides ; thehind towards the Gauls, the wolf towards the Romans.Way was made between the ranks for the wolf; theGauls slew the hind with their javelins : on which oneof the Roman soldiers in the van said, ' To that side,where you see an animal sacred to Diana lying pros­trate, flight and slaughter are directed ; on this sidethe victorious wolf of Mars, safe and untouched, re­minds us of our founder, and of our descent from thatdeity.' The Gauls were posted on the right wing, theSamnites on the left: against the latter Fabius drewup, as his right wing, the first and third legions ;against the Gauls, Decius formed the left wing of thefifth and sixth. The second and fourth were employed