OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 267 than the summits of the Pyrenees, surely no part ofthe earth reached to the heaven, nor was of a heightinsuperable by mankind. These eminences in realitywere inhabited, cultivated, produced and supportedanimals. Were they passable by small parties, andimpassable by armies? Those very ambassadors beforetheir eyes had not been carried aloft on wings over theAlps. Neither had their ancestors been natives of thesoil, but settlers, who came from other countries intoItaly, and who crossed with safety those same hills,often in vast bodies, with their wives and children, aaother colonies emigrate. To a soldier carrying nothingwith him but the implements of war what could be im­passable or insuperable ? In order to gain possessionof Saguntum, what toils, what dangers did they notundergo, for the space of eight months 1 Now, whentheir object was Rome, the capital of the world, whatdifficulty or danger should be deemed capable of re­tarding the enterprise ? The Gauls formerly madethemselves masters of those very places which the Car­thaginians despaired of approaching. Either, there­fore, they must yield the superiority in spirit and cou­rage to that nation which, during a short time past,they had so frequently overcome, or they must look,for the termination of their march in the field lyingbetween the Tiber and the walls of Rome.' 31. When by these exhortations he had re-animatedtheir courage, he ordered them to take refreshment,and prepare for a march. On the following day, heproceeded upwards along the bank of the Rhone, di­recting his route towards the interior parts of Gaul;not because that was the more direct road to the Alps,but because he thought that the farther he withdrewfrom the sea, the less probability there would be ofhis meeting with the Romans, with whom he did notintend to come to battle until he should have arrivedin Italy. After a march of four days, he came to theIsland. Here the rivers Isara and Rhone, which rundown from different parts of the Alps, after encom­passing a pretty large tract of ground, unite their