OCR Output 584 rETRAs jincon. PKTRA. from it supplied the inhabitants with water. Butnow its banks are overspread with hyacinths, olean­ders, and other flowers anil shrubs, ami overshadowedby lofty trees. Opposite to where the Sik terminates, in a se­cond ravine-like but broader valley, another mo­nument, the finest one at Petra, and perhaps in allSyria, strikes the eye of the traveller. This is theKhmneh,—well preserved, considering its age andsite, and still exhibiting its delicate chiselled workand all the freshness and beauty of its colouring.It has two rows of six columns over one another,with statues between, with capitals and sculpturedpediments, the upper one of which is divided by alittle round temple crowned with an urn. The Arabsimagine that the urn contains a treasure,— El Kkut-neh, whence the name,—which they ascribe to Pharaoh(Robinson, ii. p. 519). The interior does not correspondwith the magnificence of the fvadf, being a plainlofty hall, with a chamber adjoining each of its threesides. It was either a mausoleum, or, more probably,a temple. From this spot the cliffs on both sides the Watfyare pierced with numerous excavations, the cham­bers of which are usually small, though the fa­nnies are occasionally of some size and magnifi­cence; all. however, so various that scarce two areexactly alike. After a gentle curve the Wtuhj ex­pands, and here on its left side lies the theatre, en­tirely hewn out of the rock. Its diameter at thebottom is 120 feet (Irby and Mangles, p. 428), andit has thirty-three, or, according to another account,thirty-eight, rows of seats, capable of accommodatingat least 3000 spectators. Strangely enough, it isentirely surrounded with tombs. One of these is in­scribed with the name of Q. Praefectus Plorentinus(Laborde, p. 59), probably the governor of ArabiaPetraca under Hadrian or Antoninus Pius. Anotherhas aGrcek inscription,not yet deciphered. A strikingeffect is produced by the bright anil lively tints of thevariegated stone, out of which springs the wild tigand tamarisk, while creeping plants overspread thewalls, and thorns and brambles cover the pedestalsand cornices (/.<<n'o/i, xxxiv. 13). Travellers areagreed that these excavations were mostly tombs,though some think they may originally have servedas dwellings. A few were, doubtless, temples for theworship of Baal, but subsequently converted intoChristian churches. Proceeding down the stream, at about 150 pacesfrom the theatre, the cliffs begin to expand, andsoon vanish altogether, to give place to a smallplain, about a mile square, surrounded with gentleeminences. The brook, which now turns to the VY.,traverses the middle of this plain till it reaches aledge of sandstone cliffs, at a distance of rather morethan a mile. Tins was the site of Petra, and is still<■ .vered with heaps of hewn stones, traces of jtavedStreets, and foundations of houses. There are remainsof several larger and smaller temples, of a bridge, ofa triumphal arch of degenerate architecture, and ofthe walls of a great public building—Kusr Faron,or the palace of Pharaoh. On an eminence south of this is a single column{Zub Faron, i. e. hastn virilis Pharaonis). con­nected with the foundation-walls of a temple whosepillars lie scattered around in broken fragments,Laborde (p. 59) thinks that the Acropolis occu­pied an isolated hill on the W. At the NW. ex­tremity of the cliffs is the Deir, or cloister, hewnin the rock. A ravine, like ttie Sik, with many windings, leads to it, and the approach BTarUv*a path 5 or f> feet broad, with step* cot in throck with inexpressible labour. Its fa$adt is loftthan that of the Khuzneh; but. as in thai buttsfthe interior does not answer to it, curs&tine rf ilarge square chamber, with a recess itsenibiactfcniche for the altar in Greek ecclesiastical inlawture, and bearinc evident signs of barinz beo c*lverted from a heathen into a Christian tempi*. Tldestruction of Petra, so frequently prepbaial iScripture, was at length wrought by the MabomtalFrom that time it remained un visited, except Waalcrusading kings of Jerusalem; and perhip* by isingle European traveller, Thetmar. at thebeensiof the 13th century. It was discovered by Btrdthdwhose account of it still continues to be lb*(Robinson, it. p. 527.) Laborde's work is ehsivaluable for the engravings. See also lrby IMangles. TYrtfvk.ch.viii; Robjnson,BihLKtxarmvol. ii.p. 512,seq. [T.H.DJ 2. A town in the land of the Lizi in Csldfounded by Joannes Tzibus, a general <W Jartisiin order to keep the Lazi in subjection. U1situated upon a rock near the coast, and "Mlstrongly fortified. (Procop. B. Ptrs. ii. 15.17.)-was taken by Chosroes in a. i>. 541. and *»!sequent siege by the Romans is described by G*\as one of the most remarkable actions of lbs J'Die tir.it siege was relieved; but it was ajattacked by the Romans, and was at length ■by assault after a lone; protracted rwistanca, i551. It was then destroyed by the Bunsssufrom that time disappears from hUtory. Its nwhich are now called Oudjenar, are describsiDubois. (Procop. 21. Ar.«. ii. 17, 20, 30, B.4iv. 11,12; Gibbon, c. xlii. vol. v. . _•!.-.>.•Dubois, Vuyagc autour du CavcasCy toL ii. Jseq.) 3. A very strong fiulress in S»gdUna, batArimaxes when Alexander attacked it. (Caaf,11; comp. Arrian,iv. 19; Strab. xi. p. 517.) Itilbably the modern Kokiten, near the pass of Aslor Derbcnd. [See Diet.of Biogr. Vol 1. p. SI PETRAS MAJOR (Utrpa% o pryas, ScyijPtol. iv. 5. § 3 ; Stotluunu § 33), a bafts!Mannarica, a day's sail from Plyni Port as. ssdsame as the larse harbour which Strmba (p. 838) places near Ardanis Prom., and dss|as lying opposite to Chersonesus of Cme. alitance of 3000 stadia. It agrees in pantwaPort Barduih, where there are spring* U* the \Marsa fibfo—a, [LaJ PETRAS MIXOR (TU'iycs 6 pi*p6s, Scjt]Ptol. iv. 5. § 2; Sladiusm. § 39). a LarhsjMarmariea, half a day's sail from Antiprrgwihas been identified with Mttykarab-ei-UrtMbet9%there are a great number of catacombs mass!for their Graeco-Aegyptian style- Tbes* esjexcavations, of whicli plans are giTen hi |(Voyage dani la Marmariqttt, Ptaocbea, ajare to be identified, according to that ua([.■-■I'.'). "lib tin- -2i. u i - >....r.v < • F«oU(HofiSaia), resembling the AegyptUn "* brpriwhich the Greeks called "Syringes,** aientses!Synesius (Ep. 104); but lUrth ( M iaira^Mp. 512) has shown that the docript*** mbishop of Ptolemais cannot be applied fteHcatacombs and their locality. A cud «JtJepigraph (IE-PA, which Pellerin refrrml fjput in Mannarica is by Eckhel (iv. 116) ssflto a Cretan mint i i; ,