OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 447 fessional sciences. The literary cue was correctness, in thestyle of art and above all in the language, which, as a morelimited circle of persons of culture became separated fromthe body of the people, was in its turn divided into theclassical Latin of higher society and the vulgar Latin of thecommon people. The prologues of Terence promise "pureLatin;" warfare with faults of language forms a chiefelement of the Lucilinn satire; and with this circumstanceis connected the fact, that composition in Greek among theRomans now falls decidedly into the shade. In so far cer­tainly there is an improvement; inadequate efforts occur inthis epoch far less frequently; performances in their kindcomplete and thoroughly pleasing occur far oftener thanbefore or afterwards; in a linguistic point of view Cicerocalls the age of Laelius and Scipio the golden age of pureunadulterated Latin. In like manner literary activity gra­dually rises in public opinion from a trade to an art. At thebeginning of this period the preparation of theatrical piecesat any rate, if not the publication of recitative poems, wasstill regarded as not becoming for the noble Roman; Pacu-vius and Terence lived by their pieces; the writing ofdramas was entirely a trade, and not one of golden produce.About the time of Sulla the state of matters had entirelychanged. The remuneration given to actors at that timeproves that the favourite dramatic poet could then claim a pay­ment, the high amount of which removed its stigma. By thismeans composing for the stage was raised into a liberal art;and we accordingly find. men of the highest aristocraticcircles, such as Lucius Caesar (aedile in 664, + 667), engaged 90. 87,in writing for the Roman stage and proud of sitting in theRoman " poet's club" by the side of the ancestorless Accius.. Art finds increased sympathy and honour; but the enthu­siasm has departed in life and in literature. The fearlessself-confidence, which makes the poet a poet, and which isvery decidedly apparent in Plautus especially, is found innone of those that follow; the Epigoni of the men thatfought with Hannibal are correct, but feeble. Let us first glance at the Roman dramatic literature and Tragedy,tbe stage itself. Tragedy has now for the first time her spe­cial representatives; the tragic poets of this epoch do not,like those of the preceding, cultivate comedy and epos also.The appreciation of this branch of art among the writingand reading circles was evidently on the increase, but tragic