OCR Output C.X.] THE SICAR1I AT ALEXANDRIA. 347 to confess, that Caesar was their lord; hut they preservedtheir own opinion, in spite of all the distress they werebrought to, as if they received those torments and the fire it­self with bodies insensible of pain, and with a soul that inmanner rejoiced under them. But what was most of all .as­tonishing to the beholders, was the age of the children; fornot one of these children was so far overcome by these tor­ments as to name Caesar for their lord. • So far does thestrength of the courage [of the soul] prevail over the weak­ness of the body. 2. Now Lupus did then govern Alexandria; who presentlysent Caesar word of this commotion; who having in suspicionthe restless temper of the Jews for innovation, and beingafraid lest they should get together again, and persuade someothers to join with them, gave orders to Lupus to demolishthat Jewish temple1 which was in the region called Onion,and was in Egypt, which was built, and had its denominationfrom the occasion following: —Onias, the son of Simon, oneof the Jewish high-priests, fled from Antiochus, the king ofSyria, when he made war with the Jews, and came to Alex­andria ; and as Ptolemy received him very kindly, on accountof his hatred to Antiochus, ho assured him, that, if he wouldcomply with his proposal, he would bring all the Jews to hisassistance; and when the king agreed to do it so far as hewas able, he desired him to give him leave to build a templesomewhere in Egypt, and to worship God according to thecustoms of his own country; for that the Jews would thenbe so much readier to fight against Antiochus, who had laidwaste the temple at Jerusalem; and that they would thencome to him with greater good-will; and that, by grantingthem liberty of conscience, very many of them would comeover to him. 1 Of this temple of Onias's building in Egypt, see the notes on Antiq. B.xiii. ch. iii. sect. 1. But whereas it is elsewhere, both Of the War, B. i. ch. i.scot. 1, ami in the Antiquities us now quoted, said, that this temple was liketo that at Jerusalem, and here that it was not like il, but like a tower, sect. 3,there is some reason to suspect the reading here, and that either the negativeparticle is here to be blotted out, or the word entirely added.