OCR Output 840 [;um,\ ROMA. sort of barracks as early as the time of Gull a. (Tnc. II. i. 31; Plut. Galb. 25.) Several objects mentioned in this district aredoubtful as to site, and even as to meaning, ami arenot important enough to demand investigation. Itcontained Tiiumphal Akchks of Ci.Armrsami M. AuKELIua. The Litter subsisted in atolerably perfect state near the Piazza Fiona in theCoivo, till the year 1662, when j-oj-e Alexander VII.Caused it to be pulled down. Its reliefs still adornt lie staircase of the PalttttQ de Cuttgervatori. (Ca-nina, Indieaz, p. 220.) ARCI1 OF AVRE 1.1 US. We shall conclude this section with noticing avery humble but very useful object, the FORUMStArtu M. Daeon was an article of great consump­tion at Home. It was distributed, as well as bread,among the people, and its annual consumption inthe time of Valentin inn 111. was estimated at3,628,000 pounds. (Gibbon, Decline and Fail,vol. iv. p. 85, cd. Smith.) The custom of distribut­ing it had been introduced by Aurelian. (VopisCAvrcl. 25.) A country in which hogs'-flesh is thecheapest meat betrays a low state of fanning. Theswine still abounds in Italy: but in ancient times theRoman market was principally supplied from theforests of Lucania. The market was importantenough to have its special tribune, and the " pig-men of the eternal city" (" Popcinarii Urbis aeternae")were considered such a useful body that peculiarprivileges were granted to them. {Cod. xi. lit. 16;A*o/. l)i(jnil. Part. Occ. p. 16; Grater, Inecr,cdxxx. 4.) The market is alluded to in a sort ofproverbial manner by PhUostratUS (&Ti/<a rt walKotva. <pva.iT 6,i', wiiirtp 4v avu'V ayopifr Heroicp. 283. 19, ed. Kayser.). It is supj>osed to havestiKKi near the present church of S. Croce delf/uceketif which was substituted for that of 5.Nieold in PordWnu, (Carina, India* p. 209;1'reller, Uenimtn, p. 139.) XIV. The TiiANSTinr.niNE District. Although the district beyond the Tiber formedone of the 14 Regions of Augustus, and althoughpart of it may perhaps have been enclosed with nwall ns early as the time of Aliens MarctUS, and wascertainly included in that of Aurelian, yet, while itwas considered a part of Kome, it never belonged tothe Urbs, properly so called. The distinction be- tween Roma and Crbs was st Inst as old t* tblime of Augustus, and was thus Utd osn tvAlfenus Varus: M Ut Alfenna ait. Urts ert Baaa,qua muro cingeretur; Roma est etiam. -pa cwavnentiaaedificia essent.'' (bigttt.L tit 16.L87.) Tatcircumstance rather tends to strengthen SVlawtopinion that Ancus Marcius only built t ctuadaithe Janiculum, without any wills extending totalriver. [See above, Part II. Sect. I. rob 6a] Tatdistrict in question is naturally divided:parts, the Mons Janiculus (or JanindsaX IMons Vaticanus,— each with their respectivealtowards the river, — and the Insula Tibentt.shall begin with the last, We have already mentioned the legend ithe formation of the Insula Tikkrisa ujthe corn belonging to the Tarquins b^ir< tiinto the river. In the year b. c. 291 tae ibecame sacred to AcsmUpius. Ina pest ilence an embassy was despatch**! to Ito bring back to Rome the image of that 4but instead of the statue came a snake, rats*it was perfectly known that the god hiiruelfitered. As the vessel was passing theinland the snake swam ashore and hid itself tconsequence of which a Temple of Aewas built Upon it, and the island evw;bore the name of the god. (Liv. EpiL:Met. xv. 739; Val. Max. i. 8. § 2; Dwayi.iSuet. Claud. 25.) Sick persons resorted Istemple for a cure; but it docs not \\ \ ■ ar that \was any hospital near it, as was the cast \daurus. There is no classical authority Ifact that the sides of the island were aftiwalled round in the shape of a stop, with t)against the current, typifying the vessel is|brought the deity; but it is said thatthis substruction arc still visible. (Caip. 574.) The island also contained a TnJititer and a Temple of Fanrca, Njcated in B, c. 193. (Liv. xxxiii. 42. axThe temple of Jupiter appears to have adjaof Aesculapius. (Or. Fast. L 293.) It Iconcluded, from the following verses of'the temple of Faun us must hare stood on ibetpart of i he island (Fast. ii. 193):— 11 Idibus ngrestis fumant altaru Faurriliic, obi discretas insula rumpii so; but this, though a probable, is not a seaference. Semo Saxcts, or Deus F»dia%»to have had a sacellum here, as well as Tnas the river-god is called in the /■religious books. (Fast Atnit. IV. Id. .a curious error the early Christufounded the former deity with Simonthought that he was worshipped on the i(Just. Mart. Apol, 2; Euseb. H. Fed ii. 12.)the building of the two bridges which cocnedisland on either side with the shore, it seerwslobtained the name of " Inter i*vo& lVorna"Publ. 8); and this part of the river was leaf Ifor the delicious pike caught in it; whichflavour apparently to the rich feeding aftvdflthe proximity of the hanks. (Pint. PopL 4tjcrob.5af.ii. 12.) In thereto Marfyrvm tmMis repeatedly styled Insula Lycaonia ; it b at nmcalled Isola di S. Bartolommeo, from the cfland convent of that name. The jAinctTUm begins at that point cCampus Marti us where the Tiber i am haw J 1