OCR Output 32 ROMAN EMPIRE. of debate: the same spiritual and carnal weapons wereagain drawn from the arsenals of Egypt; the Asiatic ve­terans, a band of archers, served under the orders of Dios-corus; and the more formidable monks, whose mindswere inaccessible to reason or mercy, besieged the doorsof the cathedral. The general, and, as it should seem,the unconstrained voice of the fathers, accepted the faithand even the anathemas of Cyril; and the heresy of thetwo natures was formally condemned in the persons andwritings of the most learned orientals. May those whodivide Christ be divided with the sword; may they behewn in pieces, may they be burnt alive.' were the cha­ritable wishes of a Christian synod.0 The innocence andsanctity of Eutyches were acknowledged without hesita­tion: but the prelates, more especially those of Thraceand Asia, were unwilling to depose their patriarch forthe use or even the abuse of this lawful jurisdiction.They embraced the knees of Dioscorus, as he stood witha threatening aspect on the footstool of his throne, andconjured him to forgive the offences, and to respectthe dignity, of his brother. Do you mean to raise asedition? exclaimed the relentless tyrant. Where aretheofficers? At these words a furious multitude of monksand soldiers, with staves, and swords, and chains, burstinto the church; the trembling bishops hid themselvesbehind the altar, or under the benches, and as they werenot inspired with the zeal of martyrdom, they succes­sively subscribed a blank paper, which was afterwardfilled with the condemnation of the Byzantine pontiff.Flavian was instantly delivered to the wild beasts of thisspiritual amphitheatre: the monks were stimulated by.the voice and example of Barsumas to avenge the injuriesof Christ: it is said that the patriarch of Alexandria re­viled, and buffeted, and kicked, and trampled his brother 0 H ay.!'- fan^at unr a;:;, xaiwov EwriSiw, tires fw xaq ouro; lit tia ytnttu, »;tptpn /uipwd* ... it TI; > tj'fi tuo eaaSn/Mt. At the request of Dioscorus, thosewho were not able to roar (Cono-ai), stretched out their hands. At Chalcedon, theorientals disclaimed these acclamations; but the Egyptians more consistently de­clared Tuura *!,,, TOTE fiTtiiiv »ii n/i Xf>o,ui». (('until, torn, 4. p. 101?.)