OCR Output 298 THE EAST AND KING MITHRAPATES. [Book IV. Position of The position of the Roman government began to be criti-the Romans. cal, Asia Minor and Hellas were wholly, Macedonia to aconsiderable extent, in the enemy's hands; by sea the Pon­tic flag ruled without a rival. Then there was the Italianinsurrection, which though baffled on the whole, still heldthe undisputed command of wide districts of Italy; thebarely hushed-up revolution, which threatened every momentto break out afresh and more formidably; and, lastly, thealarming commercial and monetary crisis (P. 258) occasionedby the internal troubles of Italy and the enormous losses ofthe Asiatic capitalists, and the want of trustworthy troops.The government would have required three armies, to keepdown the revolution in Rome, to crush completely the insur­rection in Italy, and to wage war in Asia; it had but one,that of Sulla; for the northern army was, under the untrust­worthy Gnaeus Strabo, simply an additional embarrassment.Sulla had to choose which of these three tasks he would un­dertake; he decided, as we have seen, for the Asiatic war. Itwas no trifling matter—we should perhaps say, it was a greatact of patriotism—that in this conflict between the generalinterest of his country and the special interest of his partythe former retained the ascendancy; and that Sulla, inspite of the dangers which his removal from Italy involvedfor his constitution and his party, landed in the spring of 87. 667 on the coast of Epirus. But he came not, as RomanSulla's commanders-in-chief had been wont to make their appear-landing. ance {n the East. That his army of five legions or of at most 30,000 men,* was little stronger than an ordinaryconsular army, was the least element of difference. Formerlyin the eastern wars a Roman fleet had never been wanting,and had in fact without exception commanded' the sea;Sulla, sent to reconquer two continents and the islands ofthe jEgean, arrived without a single vessel of war. Formerlythe general had brought with him a full chest and drawnthe greatest portion of his supplies by sea from home:Sulla came with empty hands—for the sums raised with 88. difficulty for the campaign of 666 were expended in Italy—and found himself exclusively left to depend on requisitions.Formerly the general had found his only opponent in theenemy's camp, and since the close of the struggle between the * We must recollect that after the outbreak of the Social war the legionhad at least not more than half the number of men which it had previously.as it was no longer accompanied by Italian contingents.