OCR Output 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 446 a plain below, declaring at the same time, that theywould submit to any punishment, if they did not force itbefore night. He commended their ardour, bid themrefresh themselves, and be ready at the fourth watch. As the enemy, to hinder the Romans from escapingfrom the* hilt to Verrugo, in the night-time, were guard-Ing the road that led thither, the two armies met there.The action began before day-light, but-the moon shonebright all the night over, and they could see what theywere about, as well as by day. The shouts of the com­batants reaching Verrugo, it was believed there that.Posthumius' camp was assaulted, which occasioned sucha fright, that notwithstanding all that /Emilius couldurge to prevent them, the troops dispersed and: fled forrefuge to Tusculum. Thence flew a report to Rome,that Posthumius and hrs army were cut to pieces. BatPosthumius, as soon as it was light, and safe to make ahot pursuit without danger of falling into an ambush,rode through the ranks, reminding them of their pro­mise, which inspired them with such ardour, that theJEqni could no longer stand before them. The slaughterthat-ensued of the fugitives, was rather the effects , of re­sentment than bravery, and ended in the destruction ofthe enemy. Posthumius' letter crowned with laurel soonundeceived them with respect to the melancholy newsfrom Tusculum, bearing that the Romans had gained acomplete victory, and that the army of the flLijui hadbeen quite destroyed. CHAP. XXIX. Motions ef the JEtpd. Trial and condemnation of twoTribunes. the tribunes of the people had made no progressin their bill, the commons laboured hard to keep thosein office who had proposed it, as did the fathers, on theother hand, tq get those re-elected, who had opposed it.The commons prevailed however in the com it ia. Thefathers, in revenge of this disappointment, procured adecree of the sentate for electing consuls, magistrates thatwere odious to the people. After an interval of fifteenyears, L. Lucretius Flavus, and Servilius Sulpicius Corne­ ll , •