OCR Output CHAP. XLVI.]' OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 439 of Yemen or Arabia0 Felix; the distant land of myrrhand frankincense, which had escaped, rather than op*posed, the conquerors of the east. After the defeat ofAbrahah under the walls of Mecca, the discord of hissons and brothers gave an easy entrance to the Persians:they chased the strangers of Abyssinia beyond the Redsea; and a native prince of the ancient Homerites wasrestored to the throne as the vassal or viceroy of the greatNushirvan.d But the nephew of Justinian declared hisresolution to avenge the injuries of his Christian ally theprince of Abyssinia, as they suggested a decent pretenceto discontinue the annual tribute, which was poorly dis­guised by the name of pension. The churches of Per*sarmenia were oppressed by the intolerant spirit of theMagi; they secretly invoked the protection of the Chris­tians, and after the pious murder of their satraps, the re­bels were avowed and supported as the brethren and sub­jects of the Roman emperor. The complaints of Nu-shirvan were disregarded by the Byzantine court; Justinyielded to the importunities of the Turks, who offeredan alliance against the common enemy; and the Persianmonarchy was threatened at the same instant by the unit­ed forces of Europe, of ^Ethiopia, and of Scythia. Atthe age of fourscore, the sovereign of the east wouldperhaps have chosen the peaceful enjoyment of his gloryand greatness: but as soon as war became inevitable, he His 'V?took the field with the alacrity of youth, whilst the ag- the r0-gressor trembled in the palace of Constantinople. Nush-1™! 573,irvan, or Chosroes, conducted in person the siege of Dara; &0'and although that important fortress had been left desti- c The general independence of the Arabs, which cannot be admitted without manylimitations, is blindly asserted in a separate dissertation of the authors of the Univer­sal History, vol. 20. p. 196—250. A perpetual miracle is supposed to have guard­ed the prophecy in favour of the posterity of [shraael; and these learned bigots arenot afraid to risk the truth of Christianity on this frail and slippery foundation.'* D'Herbelot, Biblioth. Orient, p. 477. Pooock, Specimen Hist. Arabum, p. 6i,65. Father Pagi (Critioa, torn. 2. p. 646.) has proved, that after ten years peace,the Persian war, which coutiuued twenty year*), was renewed A. D.573. Mahometwas born A. D. 569, in the year of the elephant, or the defeat of Abrahah; (Gagnier,Viede Mahomet, torn. 1. p. 89, 90. 98.) and this account allows two years for theconquest of Yemen.