OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. flict of eight years, the loss of some French generals was avenged by the slaughterof the most noble Huns: the relics of the nation submitted: the royal, residence ofthe chagan was left desolate and unknown: and the treasures, the rapine of twohundred and fifty years, enriched the victorious troops, or decorated the churchesof Italy and Gaul.(l) After the reduction.of Pannonia the empire of Charle­magne was bounded only by the conflux of the Danube with the Teyss and theSave: the provinces of Istria, Libumia, and Dalmatia, were an easy, though un­profitable, accession; and it was an effect of his moderation, that he left the ma­ritime cities under the real or nominal sovereignty of the Greeks. But these dis­tant possessions added more to the reputation than to the power of the Latin em­peror; nor did he risk any ecclesiastical foundations to reclaim the barbarians fromtheir vagrant life and idolatrous worship. Some canals of communication betweenthe river, the Saone and the Meuse, the Rhine and the Danube, were faintly at­tempted. (2) Their execution would have vivified the empire: and more cost andlabour were often wasted in the structure of a cathedral. If we retrace the outlines of this geographical picture, it will be seen that theempire of the Franks extended between east and west, from the Ebro to the Elbeor Vistula; between the north and south, from the duchy of Beneventum to theriver Eyder, the perpetual boundary of Germany and Denmark. The personaland political importance of Charlemagne was magnified by the distress and divisionof the rest of Europe. The islands of Great Britain and Ireland were disputed bya crowd of princes of Saxon or Scottish origin; and, after the loss of Spain, theChristian and Gothic kingdom of Alphonso the Chaste, was confined to the nar­row range of the Aslurian mountains. These petty sovereigns revered the poweror virtue of the Carlovingian monarch, implored the honour and support of his al­liance, and styled him their common parent, the sole and supreme emperor of thewest(3) He maintained a more equal intercourse with the caliph Harun alRashid,(4) whose dominion stretched from Africa to India, and accepted from hisambassadors a tent, a water-clock, an elephant, and the keys of the holy sepulchre.It is not easy to conceive the private friendship of a Frank and an Arab, who werestrangers to each other's person, and language, and religion* but their public cor­respondence was founded on vanity, and their remote situation left no room for acompetition of interest. Two-thirds of the western empire of Rome were subjectto Charlemagne, and the deficiency was amply supplied by his command of theinaccessible or invincible nations of Germany. But in the choice of his enemies,we may be reasonably surprised that he so often preferred the poverty of the northto the riches of the south. The three and thirty campaigns laboriously consumedin the woods and morasses of Germany, would have sufficed to assert the ampli­tude of his title by the expulsion of the Greeks from Italy and the Saracens fromSpain. The weakness of the Greeks would have ensured an easy victory: and the^oly crusade against the Saracens would have been prompted by glory and revenge,and loudly justified by religion and policy. Perhaps, in his expeditions beyondthe Rhine and the Elbe, he aspired to save his monarchy from the fate of the Ro­man empire, to disarm the enemies of civilized society, and to eradicate the seedof future emigrations. But it has been wisely observed, that in a light of precau­tion, all conquest must be ineffectual, unless it could be universal; since the in­creasing circle must be involved in a larger sphere of hostility.(5) The subjugationof Germany withdrew the veil which had so long concealed the continent or islandof Scandinavia from the knowledge of Europe, and awakened the torpid courageof their barbarous natives. The fiercest of the Saxon idolaters escaped from the (1) Jdaot pralia in eo gesta! quantum sanguinis efTusum sit! Testatur racna omni habitations Pannonia, etlocus in quo regia Cagani fuit ita desertus, ut ne vestigium quidem humanee habitationis appareat. Tota inhoc bello Hunbrum nobilitas periit, tota gloria decidit, omnis pecunia et congesti ex longo tempore thesaufidirepti sunt. (2} The junction of the Rhine and Danube was undertaken only for the service of the Pannonian war.(Gaillard, Vie de Charlemagne, torn. ii. p. 312—315.) The canal, which would have been only two leagues inlength, and of which some traces are still extant in Swabta, was interrupted by excessive rains, military avo­cations, and superstitious fears, fSctuepflin, Hist, de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn, xviii. p. 256. Molimina fluviorura, See. jungendorum, p. 59—62.) (3) See Eginhanri, c 16. and Gaillard, torn. ii. p. 361—385. who mentions, with a loose reference, the inter­course of Charlemagne and Egbert, the emperor's gilt of his own sword, and the modest answer of his Saxondisciple. The anecdote, if genuine, would have adorned our English histories. (4) The correspondence is mentioned only in the French annals, and the Orientals are ignorant of the ca­liph's friendship for the Christian dog—a polite appellation, which Harun bestows on the emperor of theCreeks, (5) Gaillard, torn. ii. p. 301—365. 471—470. 492. I have borrowed his judicious remarks on Charlemagne'splan of conquest, and the judicious distinction of his stnemies of the first and the second tnctinte. Horn. it. p,'84, 509, etc.)