OCR Output 344 RESULT OF ELEAZAR'S ADVICE. [B. VII. bear the grief they were under for what they had done anylonger, and esteeming it an injury to those they had slain tolive even the shortest space of time after them, they presentlylaid all they had upon a heap, and set fire to it. They thenchose ten men by lot out of them to slay all the rest; everyone of which laid himself down by his wife and children onthe ground, and threw his arms about them, and they offeredtheir necks to the stroke of those who by lot executed thatmelancholy office : and when these ten had, without fear,slain them all, they made the same rule for casting lots forthemselves, that he whose lot it was should first kill the othernine, and after all should kill himself. Accordingly, all thesehad courage sufficient to be no way behind one another indoing or suffering: so, for a conclusion, the nine offered theirnecks to the executioner; and he who was the last of all tooka view of all the other bodies, lest perchance some or otheramong so many that were slain should want his assistance tobe quite dispatched ; and when he perceived that they wereall slain, he set fire to the palace, and, with the great forceof his hand, ran his sword entirely through himself, and felldown dead near to his own relations. So these people diedwith this intention, that they would not leave so much as onesoul among them alive to be subject to the Romans. Yetwas there an ancient woman, and another who was of kin toEleazar, and superior to most women in prudence and learn­ing, with five children, who had concealed themselves in cav­erns under ground, and had carried water thither for theirdrink, and were hidden there when the rest were intent uponthe slaughter of one another. Those others were nine hun­dred and sixty in number, the women and children beingwithal included in that computation. This calamitous slaughterwas made on the fifteenth day of the month Xanthicus [Ni-san.] 2. Now for the Romans, they expected that they shouldbe fought in the morning, when, accordingly, they put ontheir armor, and laid bridges of planks upon their laddersfrom their banks, to make an assault upon the fortress, whichthey did : but saw nobody as an enemy, but a terrible solitude