OCR Output Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THti JEWS. 2SS on his head, four hundred eighty and one years and threemonths after the people had been delivered from the Babylonishslavery, and were returned to their own country again. ThisAristobulus loved his next brother Antigonus, and treated himas his equal, but the others he held in bonds. He also cast hismother into prison, because she disputed the government withhim, for Hyrcanus had left her to be mistress of all. He alsoproceeded to that degree of barbarity, as to kill her in prisonwith hunger; nay, he was alienated from his brother Antigo­nus by calumnies, and added him to the rest whom he slew, yethe seemed to. have an affection for him, and made him above therest a partner with him in the kingdom. Those calumnies heat first did not give credit to, partly because he loved him, andso did not give heed to what was said against him, and partlybecause he thought the reproaches were derived from the envyof the relaters. But when Antigonus was once returned fromthe army, and that feast was then at hand when they make ta­bernacles to the [honour of] God, it happened that Aristobuluswas fallen sick, and that Antigonus went up most splendidlyadorned, and with his soldiers about him in their armour, tothe temple to celebrate the feast, and to put up many prayersfor the recovery of his brother, when some wicked persons,who had a great mind to raise a difference between the breth­ren, made use of this opportunity of the pompous appearanceof Antigonus, and of the great actions which he had done, andwent to the king, and spitefully aggravated the pompous showof his at the feast, and pretended that all these circumstanceswere not like those of a private person; that these actions wereindications of an affectation of royal authority; and that hiscoming with a strong body of men must be with an intention tokill him; and that his way of reasoning was this, that it was asilly thing in him, while it was in his power to reign himself^to look upon it as a great favour that he was honoured with alower dignity by his brother. 2. 'Aristobulus yielded to these imputations, but took c#reboth that his brother should not suspect him, and that he him­self might not run the hazard of his own safety; so he orderedhis guards to lie in a certain place that was underground, anddark, (he himself then lying sick in the tower which was calledAntonia,) and he commanded them, that in case Antigonuscame in to him unarmed, they should not touch any body, butif armed, they should kill him; yet did he send to Antigonus,and desired that he would come unarmed: But the queen, andthose that joined with her in the plot against Antigonus, per­suaded the messenger to tell him the direct contrary: How hisbrother had heard that he had made himself a fine suit of armour