OCR Output 32 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them a burying-place, which piece of groundAbraham bought, for four hundred shekels,of Ephron, an inhabitant of Hebron: andboth Abraham and his descendants builtthemselves sepulchres in that place. CHAP. XV. OF THE RATION OF THE TROGLODYTES, WHO WERE DERIVEDFROM ABRAHAM BY KF.TUJUH. ABRAHAM after this married Keturah,by whom six sons were born to him,men of courage, and of sagacious minds.Zambran, and Jazar, and Madan, and Ma-dian, and Josabak and Sous. Now the sonsof Sous were Sabathan and Dadan. The sonsof Dadan were Latusim, Assur, and Luom.The sons of Madian were Ephas, Ophren,Anoch, Ebidas, and Eldas. Now Abrahamcontrived to settle all these sons and grand­sons in colonies, and they took possession ofTroglodytis, and the country of Arabia theHappy, as far as it reaches to the Red Sea.It is related of Ophren, that he made waragainst Lybia, and took it; and that his grand-Children, when they inhabited it, called itfrom his name Africa: and indeed AlexanderPolyhistor gives his attestation to what I heresay when he speaks thus: "Cleodemus, theprophet, who was also called Malchus, whowrote a history of the Jews in agreement withthe history of Moses, their legislator, relatesthat there were many sons born to Abrahamby Keturah. He even names three of them.Apher, and Surim, and Japhran: that fromSurim was the land of Assyria denominated;and that from the other two, Apher and Ja- * An. 1897. t The present mode of swearing among the Moham­medan Arabs, that live in tents as the patriarchs did, ac­cording to de la Roque, (Voy. dans la Pal. p. 162.) is bylaying their hands on the Koran. They cause those whoiwear to wash their hands before they give them thebook; they put their left hand underneath, and the rightover it. Whether, among the patriarchs one hand wasunder, and the other upon the thigh, is not certain; pos­sibly Abraham's servant might swear with one hand underhis master's thigh, and the other stretched out to Heaven.As the posterity of the patriarchs are described as comingout of the thigh, it has been supposed, this ceremony hadsome relation to their believing the promise of God, tobless all the nations of the earth, by means of one that wasto descend from Abraham. B. Harmer, vol. iv. p. 477. J Homer mentions the same custom of women's beingemployed in drawing water among the Phaecians and phran, the country of Africa took its name;because these men were auxiliaries to Her­cules, when he fought against Libya andAntseus; and that Hercules married Aphra'sdaughter, and of her begat a son Diodorus;and that Sophon was his son, from whom thebarbarous people called Sophacians weredenominated." CHAP. XVI. of Isaac's marriage. NOW when Abraham, the father of Isaac,had resolved to take Rebeka, who wasgrand-daughter to his brother Nahor, for awife to his son Isaac, who was then aboutforty* years old, he sent the eldest of hisservants to betroth her; after he had obligedhim to give him the strongest assurances ofhis fidelity, after the following manner. Theyput each other's hands under each other'sthighs,f and called upon God as the witnessof what was to be done. He also sent suchpresents to those that were there as were inesteem, on account that they either rarely, ornever were seen in that country. This ser­vant got thither not under a considerabletime; for it requires much time to passthrough Mesopotamia, in which it is tedioustravelling both in winter, for the depth of theclay, and in summer, for want of water; andbesides this, for the robberies there com­mitted, which are not to be avoided by tra­vellers, but by the utmost caution. However,the servant came to Haran; and when he wasin the suburbs, he met a considerable numberof maidens going to the water;J he therefore LcEstrygonians. (Od. vii. 20. et x. 105.) Dr. Shaw,speaking of the occupation of the Moorish women in Bar-bary, says, "to finish the day, at the time of the evening,even at the time that the women go out to draw water,they are still to fit themselves with a pitcher or goat-skin,and tying their sucking children behind them, trudge it inthis manner two or three miles to fetch water." Travels,p. 421. The same custom prevailed in ancient Greece. Homerrepresents Minerva meeting Ulysses as the sun was goingdown, under the form of a Phaecian virgin carrying apitcher of water, that being the time when the maidenswent out to draw water. When near the fam'd Phwcian wall he drew,The beauteous city op'ning to his view,His step a virgin met, and stood before;A polish'd urn the seeming virgin bore. Odyst. b. vii. 25. Pope.