OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 199 sians arose from the orders or with the approbation ofPublius Scipio, that they should then command him toquit the province. If Publius Scipio should have al­ready passed over into Africa, that in such case thetribunes of the commons and the edile, with two of thedeputies whom the pretor should judge fittest, shouldimmediately proceed thither: the tribunes and theedile to bring back Scipio from thence; the deputiesto command the forces until a new general should beappointed. But if Marcus Pomponius and the tendeputies should discover that those severities had notbeen committed, either by the order or with the ap­probation of Publius Scipio, that then Scipio shouldremain with the army, and carry on the war as he hadproposed.' A decree of the senate having passed tothis effect, application was made to the tribunes of thecommons to settle among themselves, or choose by lot,which two were to go with the pretor and deputies.The college of pontiffs was consulted about the expia­tions to be performed on account of the spoliation inthe temple of Proserpine at Locri. Marcus ClaudiusMarcellus and Marcus Cincius Alimentus, tribunes ofthe commons, accompanied the pretor and the ten de­puties; with whom an edile of the commons was alsosent. The instructions were, that should Scipio (whe­ther in Sicily or Africa) refuse to obey the orders ofthe pretor, the tribunes were to give directions to theedile to apprehend and bring him home, under the au­thority of their inviolable office. It was intended thatthey should proceed first to Locri, and then to Messana. 21. Concerning Pleminius, there are two differentaccounts: some say, that on hearing what had passedat Rome, he was going to Naples into exile, when hehappened to meet Quintus Metellus, one of the depu­ties, and was by him forcibly carried back to Rhegium;others, that Scipio himself had sent a lieutenant-gene­ral, with thirty of the most distinguished among thecavalry, to throw Pleminius into chains, and also theprincipals in the mutiny. All these, however, eitherby the orders of Scipio before, or of the pretor now,