OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 121 conjugal fidelity, she expressed a manly friendship toBelisarius, whom she accompanied with undaunted reso­lution in all the hardships and dangers of a militarylife.8 The preparations for the African war were not un- Prepara-worthy of the last contest between Rome and Carthage, the AfricanThe pride and flower of the army consisted of the guards ™p 533.of Belisarius, who, according to the pernicious indulgenceof the times, devoted themselves by a particular oath offidelity to the service of their patron. Their strengthand stature, for which they had been curiously selected,the goodness of their horses and armour, and the assi­duous practice of all the exercises of war, enabled themto act whatever their courage might prompt; and theircourage was exalted by the social honour of their rank,and the personal ambition of favour and fortune. Fourhundred of the bravest of the Heruli marched under thebanner of the faithful and active Pharas ; their untracta-ble valour was more highly prized than the tame sub­mission of the Greeks and Syrians; and of such import­ance was it deemed to procure a reinforcement of sixhundred Massagetas, or Huns, that they were allured byfraud and deceit to engage in a naval expedition. Fivethousand horse and ten thousand foot were embarked atConstantinople for the conquest of Africa; but the in­fantry, for the most part levied in Thrace and Isauria,yielded to the more prevailing use and reputation of thecavalry; and the Scythian bow was the weapon on whichthe armies of Rome were now reduced to place theirprincipal dependence.' From a laudable desire to assertthe dignity of his theme, Procopius defends the soldiersof his own time against the morose critics, who confinedthat respectable name to the heavy-armed warriors ofantiquity, and maliciously observed, that the word archeris introduced by Homer1" as a term of contempt. "Such t See the hirth and character of Antonina, in the Anecdotes, c. 1. and the notes ofAlemanus, p. 3. 11 See the preface of Procopius. The enemies of archery might quote the reproachesVOL. V. K