OCR Output GOLD RINGS. 19 long period, even a Roman senator did not wear a gold ring. Ifrings were given publicly to those only who were sent as ambassa足dors to foreign nations, it was done, I suppose, because it indi足cated to the foreigners that they were of the highest rank. Andit was not customary for any person to wear them, except those towhom they were publicly presented on this account; and it was inthis manner that they commonly rode in triumph. Even when theEtrurian crown, which was of gold, was carried over the head of thegeneral, still the ring on his finger was made of iron, so that hewho was borne in triumph, was upon a par with the slave that car足ried the crown. In this manner Caius Marius triumphed overJugurtha, and it is said that it was not until his third consulshipthat he wore a golden ring. And those, who in consequence ofhaving served the office of ambassador had received gold rings,only used them in public; in their own houses they still wore ironrings. It is in pursuance of the same custom, that even at thistime, an iron ring is sent as a present to a bride, and that withoutany gem attached to it. I do not find that rings were in use in the time of the Trojan war.6Homer certainly never mentions them: when he speaks of lettersthat were written on tablets, and garments, and gold and silvervessels being laid up in chests, he always describes them as securedby knots, not marked by rings. And when he describes the heroescasting lots,7 in reply to the challenge, he does not mention thatthey did it by means of their rings. When also he enumeratesthe articles that were manufactured by Vulcan, he mentionsclasps, and other female ornaments, as ear-rings, but says nothingof rings for the fingers. And whoever it was that first adopted marking wine-vessels, and to which rings were attached; but, in this case,the rings appear to have served merely as the handles. 6 It is supposed that the " signet" of Judah, to which allusion is made inGen. xxxviii. 18, was a ring: in this case it was employed to identify hisperson, equivalent to a sign manual. In the apologue of the Prodigal Son,the father commands his servants to put a ring on the son's ringer, as anornamental badge of distinction. The Egyptians used rings in very earlytimes: Fharoah put his ring on Joseph's finger, Gen. xli. 42; this, proba足bly, was a seal-ring. Moses directed that onyx stones should be engravedlike " the engraving of a signet," Exod. xxviii. 11. Seal-rings appear tohave been commonly used by the Greeks in Solon's time. 7 II. vii. 176, et seq. It is said that each of the candidates marked his"K\>ipog," and threw it into the helmet of Agamemnon. In Matt, xxviii. 35,the soldiers are represented as " BaXXovvrce icXijpov." c 2