OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 153 tues, she revived the prosperity of his reign: while shestrove, with pious care, to expiate the faults, and to ob­literate the darker, memory of his declining age. Thechildren of Boethius and Symmachus were restored totheir paternal inheritance; her extreme lenity neverconsented to inflict any corporal or pecuniary penaltieson her Roman subjects; and she generously despisedthe clamours of the Goths, who, at the end of fortyyears, still considered the people of Italy as their slavesor their enemies. Her salutary measures were directedby the wisdom, and celebrated by the eloquence, of Cas-siodorius; she solicited and deserved the friendship ofthe emperor; and the kingdoms of Europe respected,both in peace and war, the majesty of the Gothicthrone. But the future happiness of the queen and ofItaly depended on the education of her son, who wasdestined, by his birth, to support the different and almostincompatible characters of the chief of a barbarian camp,and the first magistrate of a civilized nation. Fromthe age of ten years," Athalaric was diligently instructedin the arts and sciences, either useful or ornamental fora Roman prince; and three venerable Goths were cho­sen to instil the principles of honour and virtue into themind of their young king. But the pupil, who is insen­sible of the benefits, must , abhor the restraints of edu­cation; and the solicitude of the queen, which affectionrendered anxious and severe, offended the uhtractablenature of her son and his subjects. On a solemn fes­tival, when the Goths were assembled in the palace ofRavenna, the royal youth escaped from his mother'sapartment, and, with tears of pride and anger, com­plained of a blow which his stubborn disobedience hadprovoked her to inflict. The barbarians resented theindignity which had been offered to their king; ac­cused the regent of conspiring against his life and h At the death of Theodoric, his grandson Athalaric is described by Procopins as aboy about eight years old—oxtm yeymx; etd. Cassiodorius, with authority and reason,adds two years to his age—infantulura adhuc vix decennem. , , VOL. V. M