OCR Output 284 TAKING* OF THE LOWER CITY. [B. VI. off all their effects, and were retired into the upper city; forthey did not yet at all repent of the mischiefs they had done,but were insolent as if tbey had done well; for as they sawthe city on fire, they appeared cheerful, and put on joyfulcountenances, in expectation, as they said, of death to endtheir miseries. Accordingly, as the people were now slain,the holy house was burnt down, and the city was on fire,there was nothing farther left for the enemy to do. Yet didnot Joscphus grow weary, even in this utmost extremity, tobeg of them to spare what was left of the city: he spakelargely to them about their barbarity and impiety, and gavethem his advice in order to their escape, though he gainednothing thereby more than to be laughed at by them; andas they could not think of surrendering themselves up, be­cause of the oath they had taken, nor were strong enough tofight with the Romans any longer upon the square, as beingsurrounded on all sides, and a kind of prisoners already, yetwere they so accustomed to kill people, that they could notrestrain their right hands from acting accordingly. So theydispersed themselves before the city, and laid themselves inambush among its ruins, to catch those that attempted todesert to the Romans; accordingly many such deserters werecaught by them, and were all slain; for these were too weak,by reason of their want of food, to fly away from them ; sotheir dead bodies were thrown to the dogs. Now, everyother sort of death was thought more tolerable than thefamine, insomuch that though the Jews despaired now ofmercy, yet would they fly to the Romans, and would them­selves, even of their own accord, fall among the murderousrebels also. Nor was there any place in the city that had nodead bodies in it, but was entirely covered with those thatwere killed either by the famine or the rebellion ; and all wasfull of the dead bodies of such as hail perished either by thatsedition or by that famine. 3. So now the last hope which supported the tyrants andthat crew of robbers which were with them, was in the cavesand caverns under ground, whither if they could once fly,they did not expect to be searched for, but endeavored, that