OCR Output 12 DEDICATION. 4 whose works, although they are so perfect that we are never satis­fied with admiring them, are inscribed with a temporary title,1*such as "Apelles, or Polycletus, was doing this;" implying, thatthe art was in its infancy, and still imperfect, and that the artistmight benefit by the criticisms that were made on his work, andalter any part that required it, if he had not been prevented bydeath. It is also a great mark of their modesty, that they inscribedall -their works as if they were the last which they had executed,and as still in hand at the time of their death. I think there arebut three works of art, which are inscribed positively with the words"such a one executed this;" of these I shall give an account inthe proper place. In these cases it appears that the artist felt themost perfect satisfaction with his work, and hence these pieceswere the most eagerly sought after. I, indeed, freely admit that much may be added to my works;not only to this, but to all which I have published. By thisadmission I hope to escape from the carping critics,*6 and I havethe more reason to say this, because I hear that there are certainStoics and Dialecticians, and also Epicureans, (from the Gramma­rians I expected as much,) who are big with something againstthe little work I published on Grammar, and that they have beencarrying these abortions for ten years together—a longer preg­nancy this than the elephant's. But I well know that even awoman once wrote against Theophrastus, a man so eminent ineloquence that he obtained the title of the Divine, and that thenceoriginated the proverb of, choosing a tree to hang oneself.27 I cannot refrain from quoting the words of Cato the censor,which are so pertinent to this point. It appears from them, thateven Cato, who wrote commentaries on military discipline, andwho had learned the military art under Africanus, or rather underHannibal (for he could not endure Africanus, who, when he washis general, had borne away the triumph from him), that Cato, Isay, was open to the attacks of such as caught at reputation forthemselves by detracting from the merits of others. What then "s "Pendenti titulo;" see note in Valpy, p. 187. 56 "Homeromastigse." a7 "Suspendio jam quserere mortem oportere homines viteque renunciarecum tantum licentise, vel feminse, vel imperiti homines summit, ut in doc-tissimos scribant;" note in Valpy, p. 188. We learn from Cicero, De Nat.Deor. lib. i. sec. 33, that the name of this female was Leentium; ".... sedmeretricula etiam Leontium, contra Theophrastum scribere ausa sit?"