OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAICS GRACCHUS. 123 liation between Home and the provinces as the restoration ofmonarchy could not but bring in its train; the attempt torebuild Carthage destroyed by Italian rivalry and generallyto open the way for Italian emigration towards the pro­vinces, formed the first link in the long chain of that mo­mentous and beneficial course of action. Eight and wrong,fortune and misfortune were so inextricably blended in thissingular man and in this marvellous political constellation,that it may well beseem history in this case—though itbeseems her but seldom—to reserve her judgment. When Gracchus had substantially completed the new The quw-constitution projected by him for the state, he applied him- tion as toself to a second and difficult work. The question as to the the allic8,Italian allies was still undecided. What were the viewsof the democratic leaders regarding it, had been renderedsufficiently apparent (P. 106). They naturally desired theutmost possible extension of the Roman franchise, not onlyin order to render the domains occupied by the Latins liableto distribution, but above all in order to reinforce theirfollowing by the enormous mass of the new burgesses, tobring the comitial machine still more fully under their powerby widening the body of privileged electors, and generally toabolish a distinction which had now with the fall of the re­publican constitution lost all serious importance. But herethey encountered resistance from their own party, and espe­cially from that band which otherwise readily gave its sove­reign affirmative to all which it did or did not understand.For the simple reason, that Roman citizenship seemed tothese people, so to speak, like a partnership which gave thema claim to share in sundry very tangible, direct and indi­rect, profits, they were not at all disposed to enlarge thenumber of the partners. The rejection of the Fulvian lawin 629, and the insurrection of the Fregellans arising out of it, 125.were significant indications both of the obstinate persever­ance of the fraction of the burgesses that swayed the comitia,and of the urgent impatience of the allies. Towards the endof his second tribunate (632) Gracchus, probably urged by 122,obligations which he had undertaken towards the allies,ventured on a second attempt. In concert with MarcusFlaccus—who, although a consular, had again taken the tri-buneship of the people, in order now to carry the law whichhe had formerly proposed without success—he made aproposal to grant to the Latins the full franchise, and to