OCR Output 110 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. Agrarianlaws. an order of succession to be fixed on each occasion by lot.While these enactments were mainly designed to procurefor the new chief of the state by means of the city-proleta­riate the complete command of' the capital and thereby ofthe state, the amplest control over the comitial machinery,and the power in case of need of striking terror into thesenate and magistrates, the legislator certainly at the sametime set himself with earnestness and energy to redress theexisting social evils. It is true that the Italian domainquestion was in a certain sense settled. The agrarian lawof Tiberius and even the allotment-commission still con­tinued in force; the agrarian law carried by Gracchus canhave enacted nothing new save the restoration to the commis­sioners of the jurisdiction which they had lost. That the objectof this step was only to save the principle, and that the dis­tribution of lands, if resumed at all, was resumed only to avery limited extent, is shown by the burgess-roll, whichgives exactly the same number of persons for the years 629and 639. Gaius beyond doubt did not proceed further inthis matter, because the domain-land intended for distribu­tion by his brother was already in substance distributed, andthe question as to the domains enjoyed by the Latins couldonly be taken up anew in connection with the very difficultquestion as to the extension of Roman citizenship. On theother hand he took an important step beyond the agrarianlaw of Tiberius, when he proposed the establishment ofcolonies in Italy—at Tarentum, and more especially atCapua—and by that course rendered the domain-land, whichhad been let on lease by the state and was hitherto excludedfrom distribution, liable to be also parcelled out, not, how­ever, according to the previous method which did not contem­plate the founding of new communities, but according to thecolonial system (P. 102). Beyond doubt these colonies werealso designed to aid in permanently defending the revolution,to which they owed their existence. Still more significantline coloni- and momentous was the measure, by which Gaius Gracchusration. gr.^ proceeded to provide for the Italian proletariate in.' thetransmarine territories of the state. He despatched to thesite on which Carthage had stood 6000 colonists selectedperhaps not merely from Roman burgesses but also from theItalian allies, and conferred on the new town of Janonia therights of a Roman burgess-colony. The foundation was im­portant, but still more important was the principle of trans- 125.115. Colony ofCapua. Transma-