OCR Output IX.] RESULT OF ELKAZAR'S ADVICE. 343 CHAPTER IX. HOW THE PEOPLE THAT WERE IN THE FORTRESS WERE PRE­VAILED ON BY THE WORDS OF ELEAZAR, TWO WOMEN ANDFIVE CHILDREN ONLY EXCEPTED, AND ALL SUBMITTED TOBE KILLED BY ONE ANOTHER. § 1. Now, as Eleazar was proceeding on in this exhorta­tion, they all cut him off short, and made haste to do thework, as full of an unconquerable ardor of mind, and movedwith a demoniacal fury. So they went their way as one stillendeavoring to be before another, and as thinking that thiseagerness would be a demonstration of their courage and goodconduct if they could avoid appearing in the last class; sogreat was the zeal they were in to slay their wives, and chil­dren, and themselves also. Nor indeed, when they came tothe work itself did their courage fail them, as one mightimagine it would have done; but they then held fast the sameresolution without wavoring, which they had upon the hearingof Eleazar's speech, while yet every one of them still retainedthe natural passion of love to themselves and their families,because the reasoning they went upon appeared to them tobe very just, even with regard to those that were dearest tothem; for the husbands tenderly embraced their wives, andtook their children into their arms, and gave the longestparting kisses to them, with tears in their eyes. Yet at thesame time did they complete what they had resolved on, asif they had been executed by the hands of strangers; and theyhad nothing else for their comfort but the necessity they werein of doing this execution, to avoid that prospect they had ofthe miseries they were to suffer from their enemies. Nor wasthere at length any one of these men found that scrupled toact their part in this terrible execution, but every one of themdispatched his dearest relations. Miserable men, indeed,were they! whose distress forced them to slay their ownwives and children with their own hands, as the lightest ofthose evils that were before them. So they being not able to