OCR Output 400 THE PKI.OPONNF.SIAN WAR. Stionc with the armament they had provided, consisting offifty ships, ten of which were Chian, of a thousand heavy-armed of their own citizens, six hundred archers, a thousandmercenary Thracians, and a body of targeteers furnished bytheir adjacent dependents : Nicias the son of Niceratus andNicostratus the son of Diotrephes had the command of thewhole. They weighed from Potidaea, and landing at thetemple of Neptune marched directly for Mende. The Men-dans, with their own force and three hundred Scioneanswho were come to their succour, and the Peloponnesianauxiliaries, in all seven hundred heavy-armed under the com­mand of Polydamidas, were encamped without the city upona strong eminence. Nicias taking with him a hundred andtwenty light-armed Methoneans and sixty picked men of theheavy-armed Athenians, and all the archers, attempted tomount by a path that led up the eminence ; but, being galledby the enemy, was not able to force the ascent. Nicostratus,with all the rest of the force, having fetched a compass about,in order to mourn: in a remote quarter, where the ascent wasimpracticable, was quite thrown into disorder; and thus thewhole Athenian army narrowly escaped a total defeat. Astherefore the Mend^ans and allies maintained their post thewhole clay, the Athenians drew off and encamped. And,when night came on, the Mendeans withdrew into the city. The next day, the Athenians sailing round to the Scione-side possessed themselves of the suburbs, and spent thewhole day in ravaging the country, as not a soul sallied outto obstruct them: For some bustles now were on foot in thecity inclining to a sedition. The three hundred Scioneansdeparted also in the succeeding night to their own home :And the day following Nicias, advancing with a moiety ofthe force within their frontier, ravaged the district of theScioneans ; whilst Nicostratus, with the remainder, sat downbefore the upper gates of Mende, from whence the roadleadcth to Potidaea. But Polvdamidas. as the MeatU-ans