OCR Output 40 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. Book IX. also of the same sort. Now as he was going on in this mad course,Rezin, the king of Syria and Damascus, and Pekah the king otIsrael, who were now at amity one with another, made war withhim; and when they had driven him into Jerusalem, they besieg­ed that city a long while, making but a small progress, on ac­count of the strength of its walls: and when the king of Syriahad taken the city Elath, upon the Red Sea, and had slain theinhabitants, he peopled it with Syrians, and when he had slainthose in the [other] garrisons, and the Jews in their neighbour­hood, and had driven away much prey, he returned with his ar­my back to Damascus. Now when the king of Jerusalem knewthat the Syrians were returned home, he supposing himself amatch for the king of Israel, drew out his army against him, andjoining battle with him was beaten; and this happened becauseGod was angry with him, on account of his many and greatenormities. Accordingly, there was slain by the Israelites onehundred and twenty thousand of his men that day, whose gene­ral, Amaziah by name, slew Zechariah the king's son in his con­flict with Ahaz, as well as the governor of the kingdom, whosename was Azricam. He also carried Elcanah, the general ofthe troops of the tribe of Judah, into captivity. They also car­ried the women and children of the tribe of Benjamin captives;and when they had gotten a great deal of prey, they returned toSamaria. 2. Now there was one Obed, who was a prophet at that timein Samaria, he met the army before the city walls, and with aloud voice told them, " that they had gotten the victory not by"their own strength, but by reason of the anger Godhad against"king Ahaz. And he complained, that they were not satisfied"with the good success they had against him, but were so"bold as to make captives out of their kinsmen the tribe of Ju-"dah and Benjamin. He also gave them counsel to let them go"home without doing them any harm, for that if they did not"obey God herein, they should be punished." So the people ofIsrael came together to their assembly, and considered of thesematters, when a man whose name was Berechiah, and who wasone of chief reputation in the government, stood up, and threeothers with him, and said, " We will not suffer the citizens to"bring these prisoners into the city, lest we all be destroyed by"God: we have sins enough of our own that we have commit-"ted against him, as the prophets assure us; nor ought we"therefore to introduce the practice of new crimes." Whenthe soldiers heard that, they permitted them to do what theythought best. So the forenamed man took the captives and letthem go, and took care of them, and gave them provisions, andsent them to.their own country, without doing them any harm.