OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 177 but the public religion of the Catholics was uniformlysimple and spiritual; and the first notice of the use ofpictures is in the censure of the council of Illiberis, threehundred years after the Christian era. Under the suc­cessors of Constantine, in the peace and luxury of thetriumphant church, the more prudent bishops conde­scended to indulge a visible superstition, for the benefitof the multitude; and, after the ruin of Paganism, theywere no longer restrained by the apprehension of anodious parallel. The first introduction of a symbolicworship was in the veneration of the cross, and of relics.The saints and martyrs, whose intercession was implored,were seated on the right hand of God; but the gracious,and often supernatural favours, which, in the popularbelief, were showered round their tomb, conveyed an un­questionable sanction of the devout pilgrims, who visited,and touched, and kissed, these lifeless remains, the me­morials of their merits and sufferings.11 But a memorial,more interesting than the skull or the sandals of a de­parted worthy, is a faithful copy of his person and fea­tures, delineated by the arts of painting or sculpture.In every age, such copies, so congenial to human feel­ings, have been cherished by the zeal of private friend­ship, or public esteem; the images of the Roman empe­rors were adored with civil and almost religious honours;a reverence less ostentatious, but more sincere, was ap­plied to the statues of sages and patriots; and theseprofane virtues, these splendid sins, disappeared in thepresence of the holy men, who had died for their celes-Theirwor- t*a^ an(^ everlasting country. At first the expe-•"P. riment was made with caution and scruple; andthe venerable pictures were discreetly allowed to in-struct the ignorant, to awaken the cold, and to gratifythe prejudices of the heathen proselytes. By a slowthough inevitable progression, the honours of the ori- private worship of Alexander Severus. (Lampridius, c. 29. Lardner, HeathenTestimonies, vol. 3. p. 34.) * See this History vol. 2. p. 445. vol. 3. p. 147. 178—487. VOL. VI. N