OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL peculiarly miserable; and they experienced at once the complicatedtyranny of their masters, of the barbarians, of the soldiers, and ofthe officers of the revenue Their rebel- Their patience was at last provoked into despair. On every sidethey rose in multitudes, armed with rustic weapons, and with;irresistible fury. The ploughman became a foot soldier, the shep­herd mounted on horseback, the deserted villages and open townswere abandoned to the flames, and the ravages of the peasantsequalled those of the fiercest barbarians ". They asserted the naturalrights of men, but they asserted those rights with, the most savagecruelty- The Gallic nobles justly dreading their revenge, eithertook refuge in the fortified cities, or fled from the wild scene of"anarchy. The peasants reigned without controul; and two of theirmost daring leaders had the folly and rashness to assume the im­perial ornaments Their power soon expired at the approach ofthe legions. The strength of union and discipline obtained an easy and chastise- victory over a licentious and divided multitude ".. A severe re­taliation was inflicted on the peasants who were found in arms;the affrighted remnant returned to their respective habitations, andtheir unsuccessful effort for freedom served only to confirm theirslavery. So strong and uniform is the current of popular passions,that we may venture, from very scanty materials, to relate the par­ticulars of this war; but we are not disposed to believe that theprincipal leaders Ælianus and Amandus were Christiansor toinsinuate, that the rebellion, as it happened in the time ofLuther, was occasioned, by the abuse of those benevolent principlesof Christianity, which inculcate the natural freedom of mankind. A. D- 287. Maximian had no sooner recovered Gaul from the hands of the Revolt of Ca- raufiusio peasants, than he lost Britain by the usurpation of Carausius. Ever since the successful rashness of the franks under the reign ofProbus, their daring countrymen had constructed squadrons of lightbrigantines, in which they incessantly ravaged the provinces i- adjacent