OCR Output 326 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. Conscience and reason as the sacred measure of hisconduct. 2. A similar dependance was implied in thedecrees of the senate, which, in every reign, definedthe titles and powers of an elective magistrate. But itwas not before the ideas, and even the language, ofthe Romans had been corrupted, that a royal law,iand an irrevocable gift of the people, were created bythe fancy of Ulpian, or more probably of Tribonianhimself :r and the origin of imperial power, thoughfalse in fact, and slavish in its consequence, was sup­ported on a principle of freedom and justice. "Thekg'"-pleasure of the emperor has the vigour and effect ofpower. law, since the Roman people, by the royal law, havetransferred to their prince the full extent of their ownpower and sovereignty."5 The will of a single man,of a child perhaps, was allowed to prevail over the wis­dom of ages and the inclinations of millions; and thedegenerate Greeks were proud to declare, that in hishands alone the arbitrary exercise of legislation could besafely deposited. '" What interest or passion (exclaimsTheophilus in the court of Justinian) can reach the calmand sublime elevation of the monarch? he is alreadymaster of the lives and fortunes of his subjects; andthose who have incurred his displeasure, are alreadynumbered with the dead."' Disdaining the language offlattery, the historian may confess, that in questions ofprivate jurisprudence, the absolute sovereign of a great ranee of Dion Cassias, (tom. 1. lib. 53. p. 713.) On this occasion, his editor, Rei-mar, joins the universal censure which freedom and criticism hare pronounced against »that slavish historian. i The word (lex regia) was still more recent than the thing. The slaves ofCommodus or Caracalla would have started at the name of royalty. r See Gravina, (Opp. p.-501—512.) and Beaufort, (Republique Romaine, tom. 1.p. 255—274.) He has made a proper use of two dissertations by Johu FrederickGronovius and Noodt, both translated with valuable notes, by Barbeyrac, 2 vols, in12mo. 1731. _ ' Institut. lib. 1. tit. 2. no. 6. Pandect, lib. 1. tit. 4. leg. 1. Cod. Justinian. lib. 1.tit . 17. leg. 1. no. 7. In his antiquities and elements, Heineccius has amply treatedde constitntionibus principum, which are illustrated by Godefroy, (Comment ad Cod.Theodos. lib. 1. tit. 1—3.) and Gravina. (p. 87—90.) 'Theophilus, in Paraphras. Graec. Institut. p. 33, 34. edit. Reitl. For his per­son, time, writings, see the Theophilus of J. H. Mylius, Excnrs. 3. p. 1034—r