OCR Output 238 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. laziness, or concealed by the prudence, of the Mingre-lians. The waters, impregnated with particles of gold,are carefully strained through sheep-skins or fleeces; butthis expedient, the ground-work perhaps of a marvellousfable, affords a faint image of the wealth extracted froma virgin earth by the power and industry of ancient kings.Their silver palaces and golden chambers surpass our be­lief; but the fame of their riches is said to have excitedthe enterprising avarice of the Argonauts/ Tradition hasaffirmed, with some colour of reason, that Egypt plantedon the Phasis a learned and polite colony," which manu­factured linen, built navies, and invented geographicalmaps. The ingenuity of the moderns has peopled, withflourishing cities and nations, the isthmus between theEuxine and the Caspian ;a and a lively writer, observingthe resemblance of climate, and in his apprehension oftrade, has not hesitated to pronounce the Colchos theHolland of antiquity.15Manners of But the riches of Colchos shine only through the'darkness of conjecture or tradition; and its genuine his­tory presents a uniform scene of rudeness and poverty.If one hundred and thirty languages were spoken in themarket of Dioscurias/ they were the imperfect idioms ofso many savage tribes or families, sequestered from eachother in the valleys of mount Caucasus; and their sepa­ration, which diminished the importance, must havemultiplied the number, of their rustic capitals. In thepresent state of Mingrelia, a village is an assemblage "of I Pliny, Ui»t. Natur. lib. 33.15. The gold and silver mines of Colchos attractedthe Argonauts. (Strab. lib. 1. p. 77.) The sagacious Chardin could find no gold inmines, rivers, or elsewhere. Yet a Mingrelian lost his hand and foot for shewingsome specimens at Constantinople of native gold. * Herodot. lib. 2. c. 104,105. p. 150,151. Diodor. Sicul. lib. 1. p. 38. edit. Wes-seling; Dionys. Perieget. 689. and Eastath. ad loc. Scholiast, ad Appollonium Ar­gonaut. lib. 4. 282—291. » Montesquieu, Esprit des Loix, lib. 21. c. 6. L'lsthme ... convert de villes etnations qui ne font plus. b Bougainville, Memoires de 1'Aoademis des Inscriptions, tom. 26. p. 33. on theAfrican voyage of Hanno and the commerce of antiquity. 0 A Greek historian, Timosthenes, had affirmed, in eam ccc nationes dissimilibusUnguis descenders; and the modest Pliny is content to add, et postca a nostris cxxxinterpretibus negotia ihi gesta j (6.5.) but the words nunc deserta cover a multitudeof past fictions.