OCR Output Chap. XI.] THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. 409 for the debtor to be not merely subjected to moral torture,but directly placed upon the rack. To these sources ofgain fell to be added the wholesale traffic. The exportsand imports of Italy were very considerable. The formerconsisted chiefly of wine and oil, with which Italy andGreece almost exclusively—for the production of wine inthe Massiliot and Turdetanian territories can at that timehave been but small—supplied the whole region of theMediterranean; Italian wine was sent in considerable quan­tities to the Balearic islands and Celtiberia, to Africa, whichwas merely a corn and pasture country, to Narbo and theinterior of Gaul. Still more considerable was the importa­tion to Italy, where at that time all luxury was concentrated,and whither most articles of luxury for food, drink, orclothing, ornaments, books, household furniture, works of artwere imported by sea. The traffic in slaves, above all, receivedthrough the ever-increasing demand of the Roman mer­chants an impetus to which no parallel had been known inthe region of the Mediterranean, and which was very closelyconnected with the flourishing of piracy. All lands and allnations were laid under contribution for slaves, but theplaces where they were chiefly captured were Syria and theinterior of Asia Minor (P. 78). In Italy the transmarine Ostia,imports were chiefly concentrated in the two great emporia Puteoli.on the Tyrrhene sea, Ostia and Puteoli. The grain des­tined for the capital was brought to Ostia, which was farfrom having a good roadstead, but which as the nearestport to Rome was the most appropriate mart for less valuablewares; whereas the traffic in luxuries with the East wasdirected mainly to Puteoli, which recommended itself by itsgood harbour for ships with valuable cargoes, and presentedin its immediate neighbourhood a market little inferior tothat of the capital—the district of Baiae, which came to bemore and more filled with villas. For a long time thislatter traffic was conducted through Corinth and after itsdestruction through Delos, and in this sense accordinglyPuteoli is called by Lucilius the Italian "little Delos;"but after the catastrophe which befel Delos in the Mithra-datic war (P. 297), and from which it never recovered, thePuteolans entered into direct commercial connections withSyria and Alexandria, and their city became more and moredecidedly the first seat of transmarine commerce in Italy.But it was not merely the gain which was made by the r