OCR Output 434 THE DECLINE ANfc> PALL chap. ther. But the nuptials of Michael and EuphrosyneXL" were barren; and she was content with the title ofmother of Theophilus, his son and successor.The Arabs Under the reigns of Almamon at Bagdad, and ofisieofCrete, Michael the Stammerer at Constantinople, the islandsa.d.823, o-f Crete#and Sicily were subdued by the Arabs.The former of these conquests is disdained by theirown writers, who were ignorant of the fame of Jupi­ter and Minos; but it has not been overlooked by theByzantine historians, who now begin to cast a clearerlight on the affairs of their own times. A band ofAndalusian volunteers, discontented with the climateor government of Spain, explored the adventures ofthe sea; but as they sailed in no more than ten ortwenty galleys, their warfare must be branded withthe name of piracy. As the subjects and sectaries ofthe white party, they might lawfully invade the do­minions of the black Caliphs. A rebellious factionintroduced them into Alexandria; they cut in piecesboth friends and foes, pillaged the churches and themosques, sold above six thousand Christian captives,and maintained their station in the capital of Egypt,till they were oppressed by the forces and the presenceof Almamon himself. From the mouth of the Nileto the Hellespont, the islands and sea-coasts both ofthe Greeks and Moslems were exposed to their depre­dations; they saw, they envied, they tasted, the fer­tility of Crete, and soon returned with forty galleys toa more serious attack. The first habitation was theircamp, with a ditch and rampart, in the bay of Suda;but an apostate monk led them to a more desirableposition in the eastern parts; and the name of Can-dax, their fortress and colony, has been extended tothe whole island, under the corrupt and modern ap­ * The authors from whom I have learnt the most of the ancient and modem stateof Crete are Belon (Observations, &c. c. 3—20. Paris, 1555), Tournefort (Voyagedu Levant, tom. i. lettre ii. et iii.), and Meursius (Creta in his works, tom. iii.p. 343—544).