OCR Output 354 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. terred by superstition or resentment from approach-XXXIX- ing the gates of Ctesiphon: and his favourite re­sidence of Artemita, orDastagerd, was situate beyondthe Tigris, about sixty miles to the north of thecapital *. The adjacent pastures were covered withflocks and herds: the paradise or park was replenishedwith pheasants, peacocks, ostriches, roebucks, andwild boars; and the noble game of lions and tigerswas sometimes turned loose for the bolder pleasuresof the chase. Nine hundred and sixty elephantswere maintained for the use or splendour of the greatking: his tents and baggage were carried into thefield by twelve thousand great camels and eight thou­sand of a smaller size; and the royal stables werefilled with six thousand mules and horses, amongwhom the names of Shebdiz and Barid are renownedfor their speed or beauty. Six thousand guardssuccessively mounted before the palace gate; and theservice of the interior apartments was performed bytwelve thousand slaves. The various treasures ofgold, silver, gems, silk, and aromatics, were depositedin a hundred subterraneous vaults; and the chamberBadwverd 'denoted the accidental gift of the windswhich had wafted the spoils of Heraclius into one ofthe Syrian harbours of his rival. The voice of flattery,and perhaps of fiction, is not ashamed to compute thethirty thousand rich hangings that adorned the walls,the forty thousand columns of silver, or more pro­bably of marble, and plated wood, that supported theroof; and the thousand globes of gold suspended inthe dome, to imitate the motions of the planets andthe constellations of the zodiac f. While the Persianmonarch contemplated the wonders of his art and * D'Anville, Mem. de PAcademie des Inscriptions, tom, xxxii. p. 568—571. f Theophanes, Chronograph, p. 268. D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientak.p. 997. The Greeks describe the decay, the Persians the splendour of Dastagerd;but the former speak from the modest witness of the eye, the latter from thtvague report of the ear.