OCR Output STOBORRUM PROM. STRATONICEIA. 1037 i n imperfectly known that there is a difficulty in^fKifying its site: in Kiepcrt's map (Europalscher%ria) the rains of Stobi are marked to the W. of'rvurkapi, or the pass of the " Iron Gate." (Leake,Ferricm Greet, vol. iii. pp. 306,440.) [E. B. J.] STOBORRUM PROM. (Sro*V/W tutpov, Ptol.t. 3. § 5), a headland of Numidia, between theranaotcrr of Hippos and the town of Aphrodisinm,i the E. point of the Sinos Olchacites. Now Cap'moot Rat Hadid. [T. H. D.] STOE'CHADES (ai Si-oixdifr r!)<roi) or STI-HADES, on the S. coast of Gallia. Strain (ir. p.H) *peaks of the Stoechades islands lying off thev: of Narbonen^ five in number, threo largertwo mailer. They were occupied by the Massa-4k Strph. B. (». v. jrotx«U«s) says, " inlands neartasalia; and they are also named Ligystides." Pto-m (u. 10. § 21) also mentions five islands Stoe-bJes, which he places in tho meridian of theI'.haristes Promontorium [ClTiiAniSTEs].i'hny(iii. 5) mentions only three Stoechades, which■ mts were so named from being in a liner»wr»t), and he gives to them the Greek names»l*rtively Prote, Mese or Pomponiana, and Hy-ri Tnese must bo the islands now named Islet'Biera, of which the most westerly is Porquerotet, • central is Portcroz, and the most easterly istat dm Levant or du Titan, opposite to the town ofTom, in the department of Far. These islands» mere barren rocks. Besides the three largerhaU, which have be*>n enumerated, there arc twolim at least, mere rocks, VEsquillade and Bagneau, make np the number of five. Coral was goti the tea about the Stoechades (Plin. xxxii. 3), and •nil IT* on this part uf the French coast. A;i!hemerus(Gfeoj. Alin. ii. p. 13, ed. Hudson)wtt the Stoechades along the coast which wasTcpini by the settlements of the Massaliots; but> $xes the two small Stoechades near Massilia.■■H are the two dismal rocks named Jiatoneausi Pumegve which are seen as soon as yon get out tte port of Marseille, with some still smallereii near them [Massilia, p. 292], one of which•tains the small fort named Chateau d~lf. The Stoechades still belonged to the Massaliots in•r.tiu' time (Hist, iii. 43). The Romans whoet exiled from Rome sometimes went to Massi-i as L. Scipio Asiaticus did; if he did not go to» .Stoechades as the Scholiast says (Cic. pro Sett. J); but the Roman must have found the Stoe-sdw a dull place to live in. When Lucan (iii.It) bays" Store had os arva/he uses a poetic license;d Vuiiianus (xv. 11) as usual in his geography«aJer» when he places the Stoechades about Ni-« and Antipolis (Sizza, Antibei). [G. L.] tTOEDX [Eraim] STOMA, AO, a pluce in Mnesia on the Southem-i»t arm of the Danube. (Tab. Peut.; Geogr. Rav. • i) Manoert (vii. p. 123) places it by the•LmZof. [T.H.D.]STOMAL1MNE. [Fossa Mariana.]STKADELA, a town of Palestine mentioned onlythe Iuoeraritun Hierosolyinitanum as x. M.P. from•ximianopolia, ami xii. M.P. from Sciopolis (i. e.7'lnpilis), and identified by tho writer with theace where Ahab abode and Elias prophesied, and-oi a strange confusion—where David slew Goliath^ i*6, ed. Wesseling). The name is undoubtedly"irruption of Esdraelo, tho classical form of the»i?tnral Jezreel. [Esdraf.i.a.] [G. W.]fcfRA'GONA (2i ocryoW), a town in tho south­ eastern part of Germany, cither in the country ofthe Silingac or in that of the Didnni, on the nor­thern slope of Mons Ascibnrgius. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 28.)If the resemblance of names be a safe guide, wemight identify it with Strigau, though this hardlyagrees with tho degrees in which it is placed byPtolemy; whence others suppose it to have beensituated at Strehlen, between Schtceidniiz andBrieq. [L. S.] STRAPELLUM. [Apulia, p. 167.] STRATI A. [Enispk.] STRATONI'CE (STparoi-firn, Ptol. iii. 13. § 11),a town of Chalcidice in Macedonia, which Ptolemyplaces on the Singitic gulf. Leake (Northern Greece,vol. iii. p. 160) considers that there is here the samemistake as in the case of Acanthus [Acanthus] , andrefers it to the Hellenic remains on the coast of the Stry-monic gulf in the confined valley of StraUmi. [E.li.J.] STRATONICEIA (StootoWmki or 2tdotok(k>),Ptol. v. 2. § 20: Eth. ^.TparoviKtvs'), one of thomost important towns in the interior of Cariu, wassituated on the south-east of Mylasa, and on thesouth of the river Marsyas. It appears to havebeen founded by Antiochus Sotcr, who named itafter his wife Stratonice. (Strab. xiv. p. 660 jSteph. B. *. t>.) The subsequent Syro-Macedoniankings adorned the town with splendid and costlybuildings. At a later time it was ceiled tothe Rhodians. (Liv. xxxiii. 18,30.) Mithridatesof Pontus resided for some time at Stratoniceia,and married tho daughter of one of its principalcitizens. (Appian, Mithr. 20.) Some time afterthis it was besieged by Labienus, and the brave re­sistance it offered to him entitled it to the gratitudeof Augustus and the Senate (Tac Ann. iii. 62;Dion Cass, xlviii. 26). The emperor Hadrian issaid to have taken this town under his special pro­tection, and to have changed its name into Hadriano-polis (Steph. B. /. c), a name, however, whichdoes not appear to have ever come into use. Pliny(v. 29) enumerates it among free cities in Asia.Near the town was the temple of Zens Chrysaoreus,at which the confederate towns of Caria held theirmeetings; at these meetings the several stateshad votes in proportion to the number of townsthey possessed. The Stratoniceans, though not ofCarian origin, were admitted into the confederacy,because they possessed certain small towns orvillages, which formed part of it. Mcnippus, sur-named Catochas, according to Cicero (Brut. 91)one of the most distinguished orators of his time,was a native of Stratoniceia. Stephanua B. (t e>.'ISptdr) mentions a town of Idrias in Caria, whichhad previously been called Chrysaoris; and asHerodotns (v. 118) makes the river Marsyas, onwhose banks stood tho white pillars at which theCarians held their national meetings, flow from adistrict called Idrias, it is very probable thatAntiochus Soter built the new city of Stratoniceiaupon the site of Idrias. (Leake, Atia Minor, p.235.) Etkihittar, which now occupies the place ofStratoniceia, is only a small rillago, the whole neigh­bourhood of which is strewed with marble fragments,while some shafts of columns are standing single.In the side of a hill is a theatre, with the seats re­maining, and ruins of the proscenium, among whichare pedestals of statues, some of which containinscriptions. Outside the villago there are brokenarches, with pieces of massive wall and marblecoffins. (Chandler, Traeelt in Asia Minor, p. 240;Leake, Asia Minor, p. 229; Fellows, Alia Minor,