OCR Output 170 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. placed men in ambush about them, that hemight not escape without being perceived:but Sampson, who was acquainted with theircontrivances, arose about midnight, and ranby force upon the gates, with their posts, andbeams, and the rest of their wooden furniture;and carried them on his shoulders, to themountain that is over Hebron;* and therelaid them down. However, he at lengtht transgressed thelaw of his country; and altered his own re­gular way of living, and imitated the strangecustoms of foreigners; which thing was thebeginning of his miseries. For he fell in lovewith a woman that was a harlot among thePhilistines: her name was Delilah, and helived with her. So those that administeredthe public affairs of the Philistines came toher, and persuaded her to attempt a discoveryof that strength, by which Sampson becameunconquerable to his enemies. Accordinglywhen they were drinking, and had the likeconversation together, she pretended to ad­mire the actions he had done; and contrivedto get out of him by subtilty by what meanshe so much excelled others in strength.Sampson, in order to delude Delilah, (for hehad not yet lost his senses,) replied, that if hewere bound with seven such green withs of avine, as might still be wreathed, he should beweaker than any other man. The womansaid no more then; but told this to the rulersof the Philistines, and hid certain of theirsoldiers in ambush within the house; andwhen he was disordered in drink, and asleep,she bound him, as fast as possible, with thewiths; and then, upon her awakening him, she told him, some of the people were uponhim; but he brake the withs, and endeavouredto defend himself, as though some of his ene­mies were really upon him. Now this woman,in the constant conversation Sampson hadwith her, pretended, that she took it very illthat he had such little confidence in her affec­tion, that he would not tell her what she de­sired; as if she would not conceal what sheknew it was for his interest to have concealed.However, he deluded her again, and told her,that if they bound him with seven cords, heshould lose his strength. And when, upondoing this, she gained nothing, he told herthe third time, that his hair should be woveninto a web; but the truth was not yet disco­vered. At length, however, Sampson, uponDelilah's intreaty (for he was doomed to fallinto some affliction,) was desirous to pleaseher, and told her, that God took care of him;and that he was born by his providence, andtherefore he suffered his hair to grow; Godhaving charged him never to cut it,J andthence his strength was according to the in­crease and continuance of his hair. Whenshe had learned thus much, and had deprivedhim of his hair, she delivered him up to hisenemies, when he was not strong enough todefend himself. So they put out his eyes, andbound him,|| and had him led about amongthem. But in process of time Sampson's hair grewagain. And there was a public festival amongthe Philistines, when the rulers, and those ofthe most eminent characters, were feastingtogether.§ Now the room wherein they werehad its roof supported by two pillars. So * Judg. xvi. 3. t See this justly observed in the Apostolical Constitu­tions, VIII. 37. that Sampson's prayer was heard, but thatit was before this his transgression. J Pliny (Nat. Hist. lib. xii. cap. 20.) has preserved thememory of several men remarkable for their greatstrength. The heathens were so well acquainted with thecircumstances of Sampson's history, that from it theyformed the fable of Nisus, the king of Megara, upon whosehair the fortune of his kingdom depended. Patrick, inlocum. B. II Judg. xvi. 21. § Some persons have asserted, that no building suffi­ciently capacious to receive so great a number of peoplecould be constructed so as to rest chiefly upon two pillars.But this is a mistake; for Pliny (Nat. Hist. lib. xxxv. cap.15.) mentions two theatres built by C. Curio, (who waskilled in the civil wars, on Caesar's side,) which weremade of wood, and so extensive as (according to his mode of writing) to hold all the Roman people. They werecontrived with such art, that each of them depended uponone hinge. This caused Pliny to censure the madness ofthe people, who would venture into a place for theirpleasure, where they sat tarn infida instabiliqve sede, onsuch an uncertain and unstable seat; for if that hinge hadgiven way, there had been a greater slaughter than at thebattle of Cannae. This entirely removes any imaginarydifficulty, of this nature at least, from the history ofSampson. "The Eastern method of building may assistus in accounting for the particular structure of the temple,or house, of Dagon, (Judg. xvi.) and the great number ofpeople that were buried in the ruins of it, by pulling downthe two principal pillars. We read (v. 27.) that aboutthree thousand persons were upon the roof, to beholdwhile Sampson made sport. Sampson must therefore havebeen in a court, or area, below them, and consequentlythe temple will be of the same kind with the ancienttc/aev*] , or sacred inclosures, surrounded only in part or