OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. superiority of his genius and military power, he determined, with­out any previous injury, to exert them for the destruction of Licinius,whose advanced age and unpopular vices seemed tt> offer a veryeasy conquest ,0J. But the old emperor, awakened by the approach­ing danger, deceived the expectations of his friends as well asof his enemies. Calling forth that spirit and those abilities by whichhe had deserved the friendship of Galerius and the imperial purple,he prepared himself for the contest, collected the forces of theEast, and soon filled the plains of Hadrianople with his troops,and the Streights of the Hellespont with his fleet. The army con­sisted of one hundred and fifty thousand foot, and fifteen thousandhorse; and as the cavalry was drawn, for the most part, fromPhrygia and Cappadocia, we may conceive a more favourable opinionof the beauty of the horses than of the courage and dexterity of theirriders. The fleet was composed of three hundred and fifty gallies pof three ranks of oars. An hundred and thirty of these were fur­nished by Egypt, and the adjacent coast of Africa. An hundredand ten sailed from the ports of Phœnicia and the ifle of Cyprus;and the maritime countries of Bithynia, Ionia, and Caria, werelikewise obliged to provide an hundred and ten gallies. Thetroops of Constantine were ordered to rendezvous at Theflalonica;they amounted to above an hundred and twenty thousand horseand foot '°4. Their emperor was satisfied with their martial ap­pearance, and his army contained more soldiers, though fewer menthan that of his eastern competitor. The legions of Constantinewere levied in the warlike provinces of Europe; action hadconfirmed their discipline, victory had elevated their hopes, andthere were among them a great number of veterans, who, afterseventeen glorious campaigns under the fame leader, prepared them­selves to deserve an honourable dismission by a last effort of theirvalour "". But the naval preparations of Constantine were in every L 1 1 2 respect