OCR Output B.VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 243 But, on the day following, they stand out with their* fleet, to the number of seventy-six ships; and, at thefame time, the land-army marched up to the intrench-ments. The Athenians launched out, with fourscoreand six, to give them a reception; and thus, chargingone another, an engagement ensued. Eurymedoncommanded the right wing of the Athenian fleet, andendeavoured to over-reach and surround the ships ofthe enemy. For this purpose, he opened his line, andstood along too close to the land; which gave the Sy­racusans and their allies, who had now defeated thecenter of the Athenians, an opportunity to intercepthim in the bottom and recess of the harbour, wherethey slay Eurymedon himself, and destroy the shipswhich had separated in his company: and, this done,they gave chace to the whole Athenian fleet, and drovethem ashore. Gylippus, now, perceiving that the ships of the ene­my were defeated and drove aground quite wide of thepiles and their camp, formed instantly a design to makeslaughter of the men as they were leaping on shore, andof giving the Syracusans an opportunity easily to drawoff all the ships from land of which they were entiremasters. At the head, therefore, of one division ofthe land-force, he marched down to the pier to secondthe fleet. The Tyrrhenes happened to have been postednearest by the Athenians; who, seeing a body of theenemy running down thither in a dilbrderly manner,advanced eagerly to meet them; and, charging brisklyon the van, put them to flight and drive them into thelake of Lysimclia. But, soon after, a reinforcement ofSyracusans and their allies coming up, the Athenians * Plutarch adds, that, " on this occasion, the very lads came out in fishing-** boats and fleiffs, taunting and insulting the Athenians. One of these lads, Hera-"elides, of a noble family, who had advanced too near, was in great danger of be-** ing intercepted by an Athenian vessel. But Pollichus, the uncle of the hi', a-«* Jarmed for his safety, charged instantly with the ten triremes he had under his«* command. The rest of the Syracusan fleet, now alarmed for Pollichus, ran in** mi once, and brought on a general engagement," Life of Nitiet, R 2 also