OCR Output 136 THE DECLINE AND FALL almost one thousand years, from the twelve tables to the reign of Justinian, maybe divided into three periods almost equal in duration, and distinguished from eachother by the mode of instruction and the character of civilians, (1) Pride and ig­norance contributed, during the first period, to confine within narrow limits thescience of the Roman law. On the public days of market or assembly, the mastersof the art were seen walking in the forum, ready to impart the needful advice tothe meanest of their fellow citizens, from whose votes, on a future occasion, theymight solicit a grateful return. As their years and honours increased, they seat­ed themselves at home on a chair or throne, to expect with patient gravity thevisits of their clients, who, at the dawn of day, from the town and country, beganto thunder at their door. The duties of social life, and the incidents of judicialproceeding, were the ordinary subject of these consultations, and the verbal orwritten opinion of the jurisconsults was framed according to the rules of prudenceand law. The youths of their own order and family were permitted to listen;their children enjoyed the benefit of more private lessons, and the Mucian racewas long renowned for the hereditary knowledge of the civil law. The second Seriod, the learned and splendid age of jurisprudence, may be extended from theirth of Cicero to the reign of Severus Alexander. A system was formed, schoolswere instituted, books were composed, and both the living and the dead becamesubservient to the instruction of the student. The tripartite of JElius Pstus, sur-named Catus, or the Cunning, was preserved as the oldest work of jurisprudence.Cato the censor derived some additional fame from his legal studies, and those ofhis son: the kindred appellation of Mucius Scscvola was illustrated by three sagesof the law; but the perfection of the science was ascribed to Servius Sulpicius,their disciple and the friend of Tully; and the long succession, which shone withequal lustre under the republic and under the Ciesars, is finally closed by the re­spectable characters of Papinian, of Paul, and of Ulpian. Their names, and thevarious titles of their productions, have been minutely preserved, and the exam­ple of Labeo may suggest some idea of their diligence and fecundity. That emi­nent lawyer of the Augustan age divided the year between the city and country,between business and composition; and four hundred books are enumerated as thefruit of his retirement. Of the collections of his rival Capito, the two hundredand fifty-ninth book is expressly quoted; and few teachers could deliver theiropinions in less than a century of volumes. In the third period, between thereigns of Alexander and Justinian, the oracles of jurisprudence were almost mute.The measure of curiosity had been filled; the throne was occupied by tyrantsand barbarians; the active spirits were diverted by religious disputes, and the pro­fessors of Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, were humbly content to repeat thelessons of their more enlightened predecessors. From the slow advances andrapid decay of these legal studies, it may be inferred, that they require a state ofpeace and refinement. From the multitude of voluminous civilians who fill theintermediate space, it is evident, that such studies may be pursued, and suchworks mav be performed, with a common share of judgment, experience, and in­dustry. The genius of Cicero and Virgil was more sensibly felt, as each revolvingage had been found incapable of producing a similar or a second: but the mosteminent teachers of the law were assured of leaving disciples equal or superior tothemselves in merit and reputation. The jurisprudence which had been grossly adapted to the wants of the first Ro­mans, was polished and improved in the seventh century of the city, by the allianceof Grecian philosophy. The Scxvolas had been taught by use and experience; butServius Sulpicius was the first civilian who established his art on a certain and ge­neral theory. (2) For the discernment of truth and falsehood, he applied, as an (1) The series of the civil lawyers it deduced by Pomponius fde Origine Juris Pandect, lib. i. tin ii.) Themoderns hare discussed, with learning and criricism, this branch of liiernry history; and among these I havechiefly been raided by Gravina (p. 41—79.,) and Heineccius (Hist. J. R. No. 113—351.) Cicero, more especiallyin his books de Oratoie, de Claris Oratorihos, de Legibus, and the Clavis Ciceroniana of Ernesti (under thenames of Mucius, &e.,) afford much genuine and pleasing information. Horace often alludes to the morninglabours of civilians (Serm. 1.1.10. Epist. 2. 4.103, fee. Agrtcolam laudat juris legumque peritus aSub galli cantum, consultor ubi ostia pulsat. Rome dulce diu fuit et solemne, reclusaMane domo vigilare, clienti promere jura. (2) Craisut, or rather Cicero himself, proposes (de Oratore, 1.41,42.) an idea of the art or science of juris-prudence, which the eloquent, but illiterate, Antonius(l. 58.) affects to deride. It was partly executed by