OCR Output 234 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. the interest or passions of an unworthy father: the* same crimes that flowed from the corruption, were more sensibly felt by the humanity, of the Augustanage; and the cruel Erixo, who whipped his son till heexpired, was saved by the emperor from the just furyof the multitude*. The Roman father, from thelicence of servile dominion, was reduced to the gra­vity and moderation of a judge. The presence andopinion of Augustus confirmed the sentence of exilepronounced against an intentional parricide by thedomestic tribunal of Arius. Hadrian transported toan island the jealous parent, who, like a robber, hadseized the opportunity of hunting, to assassinate ayouth, the incestuous lover of his stepmother f. Aprivate jurisdiction is repugnant to the spirit of mon­archy; the parent was again reduced from a judgeto an accuser; and the magistrates were enjoined bySeverus Alexander to hear his complaints and executehis sentence. He could no longer take the life of ason without incurring the guilt and punishment ofmurder; and the pains of parricide, from which hehad been excepted by the Pompeian law, were finallyinflicted by the justice of Constantine J. The sameprotection was due to every period of existence; andreason must applaud the humanity of Paulus, forimputing the crime of murder to the father, whostrangles, or starves, or abandons his new-born in­fant; or exposes him in a public place to find themercy which he himself had denied. But the ex­position of children was the prevailing and stubborn * The examples of Erixo and Arius are related by Seneca (de dementia, i.14, 15), the former with horror, the latter with applause. •f Quod latronis magis quam patris jure eum interfecit, nam patria potestas inpietatc debet non in atrocitate consistere (Marcian, Institut . 1. xiv. in Pandect.1. xlviii. tit. is. leg. 6). $ The Pompeian and Cornelian laws de sicariii and parricidu, are repeated,or rather abridged, with the last supplements of Alexander Severus, Constantino,and Valentinian, in the Pandects (1. xlviii. tit. viii, ix), and Code (1. ix. tit. xvi,xvii). See likewise the Theodosian Code (1 . ix. tit. xiv, xv), with Godefroy'sCommentary (tom. iii. p. 84—113), who pours a Hood of ancient and modernlearning over these penal laws.