OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 197 in the same situation with themselves; hut althoughdestitute of support, either in their own or in foreignresources, yet did they not desist from the prosecutionof hostilities. So indefatigably, though unsuccess­fully, did they struggle in defence of liberty, andrather than not aspire after victory, chose to subjectthemselves to repeated defeats. Who does not find hispatience tired, either in writing or reading of wars ofsuch continuance, and which yet exhausted not theresolution of the parties concerned? 32. Quintus Fabius and Publius Decius were suc­ceeded in the consulship by Lucius Postumius Megel-lus and Marcus Atilius Regulus. [A. U. C. 458. B. C.294.] The province of Samniutn was decreed to bothin conjunction; because intelligence had been receivedthat the enemy had embodied three armies; one forthe recovery of Etruria ; another, to repeat their ra­vages in Campania ; and the third, intended for thedefence of their frontiers. Sickness detained Postu-mius at Rome, but Atilius set out immediately, withdesign to surprise the enemy in Samnium, before theyshould have advanced beyond their own borders; forsuch had been the directions of the senate. The Ro­mans met the enemy, as if by mutual appointment, ata spot where, while they could be hindered, not onlyfrom ravaging, but even from entering the Samniteterritory, they could likewise binder the Samnitesfrom continuing their progress into the countries whichwere quiet, and the lands of the allies of the Romanpeople. While they lay opposite to each other, theSamnites attempted an enterprise, which the Romans,so often their conquerors, would scarcely have ven­tured to undertake ; such is the rashness inspired byextreme despair; this was an assault on the Romancamp. And although this attempt, so daring, suc­ceeded not in its full extent, yet it was not withoutconsiderable effect. There was a fog, which continuedthrough a great part of the day, so thick as to excludethe light of the sun, and to prevent not only the view'of any thing beyond the rampart, but scarcely the