OCR Output AN. 62.] 501 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. those sacrifices, if any melancholy accidenthappened, by the stones that were thrownamong them. For although the city was ta­ken on *the third month, on the day of thefast, upon the hundred and seventy-ninthOlympiad: when Caius Antonius and MarcusTullius Cicero were consuls; and the enemythen fell upon them, and cut the throats ofthose that were in the temple; yet could notthose that offered the sacrifices be compelledto run away; neither by the fear they werein of their own lives, nor by the number thatwere already slain. As thinking it better tosuffer whatever came upon them, at theirvery altars, than to omit any thing that theirlaws required of them. And that this is nota mere boast, or an encomium to manifest adegree of our piety that was false; I appealto those that have written of the acts ofPompey: and among them to fStrabo, andNicolaus of Damascus; and besides these toTitus Livius, the writer of the Roman histo­ry; who all bear witness to this thing.J But when the battering engine was broughtnear, the greatest of the towers was shakenby it, and fell down; and brake down a partof the fortifications. So the enemy pouredin apace: and Cornelius Faustus, the son ofSylla, with his soldiers, first of all ascendedthe wall; and next to him Furius, the cen­turion, with those that followed, on the otherpart: while Fobius, who was also a centu­rion, ascended it in the middle with a strongbody of men after him. And now all wasfull of slaughter: some of the Jews beingslain by the Romans, and some by one an­other. Nay, some there were who threwthemselves down the precipices, or set fire * That is, on the 23d of Sivan, the annual fast for thedefection and idolatry of Jeroboam, who made Israel tosin. See Harm, of the Evang. page 152, 153. Or pos­sibly some other fast might fall in that month before,and in the days of Josephus. t To these testimonies of Strabo, Nicolaus of Damas­cus, and Titus Livius; Hudson and Spanheim desire usto add, Tacitus Histor. V. 9. but that is, for the taking ofJerusalem by Pompey only. And since almost all thatTacitus knew in earnest about the Jews, was by him di­rectly taken out of Josephus, it is not necessary that heshould be often quoted as a distinct authority from him.Only we may here observe, by the way, that our Josephusnever quotes any Latin author, but Titus Livius; and himin this place only. \ It deserves here to be noted, that this Pharisaical su­perstitious notion, that offensive fighting was unlawful to to their houses, and burnt them; as not ableto bear the miseries they were under. Ofthe Jews there fell twelve thousand; but ofthe Romans very few. Absalom, who was atonce both uncle and father-in-law to Aristo-bulus, was taken captive. And no smallenormities were committed about the temple:which, in former ages, had been inaccessible,and seen by none. For Pompey went intoit, and not a few of those that were with himalso; and saw all which it was unlawful forany other men to see, but only for the high-priests. There were in that temple thegolden table, the holy candlestick, and thepouring vessels; and a great quantity of spi­ces: and besides these there were among thetreasures two thousand talents of sacredmoney. Yet ||did Pompey touch nothing ofall this; on account of his regard to religion:and in this point also he acted in a mannerthat was worthy of his virtue. The next dayhe gave order to those that had the chargeof the temple to cleanse it, and to bring whatofferings the law required to God; and re­stored the high-priesthood toHyrcanus: bothbecause he had been useful to him in otherrespects; and because he hindered the Jewsin the country from giving Aristobulus anyassistance in his war against him. He alsocut off those that had been the authors ofthat war; and bestowed proper rewards onFaustus, and those others that mounted thewall with such alacrity; and he made Jeru­salem tributary to the Romans; and tookaway those cities of Coelesyria which the in­habitants of Judea had subdued; and putthem under the government of the Romanpresident; and confined the whole nation, Jews, even under the utmost necessity, on the Sabbathday; of which we hear nothing before the times of theMaccabees, was the proper occasion of Jerusalem's beingtaken by Pompey, by Sosius, and by Titus: as appearsfrom the places already quoted in the note on XIII. 8,and partly by Ptolemy Logi, also XI. 1, which scrupuloussuperstition, as to the observance of such a rigorous restupon the Sabbath day, our Saviour always opposed; whenthe Pharisaical Jews insisted on it; as is evident in manyplaces in the New Testament. Though he still intimatedhow pernicious that superstition might prove to them, intheir flight from the Romans. Matt. Xxiv. 20. I! This is fully confirmed by the testimony of Cicero;who says, in his oration for Flacus, that "CneiusPompeius, when he was conqueror, and had taken Je­rusalem, did not touch any thing belonging to thattemple." 4K2