OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 9 Elijah, the three kings went to him at the entreaty of Jehosha-phat; and when they were come at the prophet's tent, whichtent was pitched out of the camp, they asked him, "What"would become of the army?" and Joram was particularlyvery pressing with him about it. And when he replied to him,That " he should not trouble him, but go to his father's and"mother's prophets, for they [to be sure] were true prophets,"he still desired him to prophesy, and to save them. So he sworeby God, that he would not answer him unless it were on ac­count of Jehoshaphat, who was an holy and righteous man, andwhen, at his desire, they brought him a man that could play on ".the psaltery, the Divine Spirit came upon him as the musicplayed, and he commanded them to dig many trenches in the val­ley; for, said he, "Though there appear neither cloud, nor"wind, nor storm of rain, ye shall see this valley full of water,"till the army and the cattle be saved for you by drinking of"it: Nor will this be all the favour that you shall receive"from God, but you shall also overcome your enemies, and"take the best and strongest cities of the Moabites, and you"shall * cut down their fruit trees, and lay waste their coun-"try, and stop up their fountains and rivers." 2. When the prophet had said this, the next day, before thesun rising, a great torrent ran strongly; for God had causedit to rain very plentifully at the distance of three days' journeymto Edom; so that the army and the cattle found water to drinkin abundance. But when the Moabites heard that the threekings were coming upon them, and made their approachthrough the wilderness, the king of Moab gathered his armytogether presently, and commanded them to pitch their campupon the mountains, that when the enemies should attempt toenter their country, they might not be concealed from them.But when at the rising of the sun they saw the water in thetorrent, for it was not far from the land of Moab, and that itwas of the colour of blood, for at such a time the water especiallylooks red, by the shining of the sun upon it, they formed a falsenotion of the state of their enemies, as if they had slain one ano­ther for thirst; and that the river ran with their blood. How­ever, supposing that this was the case, they desired their kingwould send them out to spoil their enemies; whereupon they * This practice of cutting down, or plucking up by the roots, the fruit trees,was forbidden, even in ordinary wars, by the law of Moses, ])cut. xx. 19, 20.and only allowed by God in this particular case, when the Moabites were to bepunished and cut oh" in an extraordinary manner for their wickedness. See Jer.xlviii. 11, 1'.?, 13. and many the like prophecies against them. Nothing couldtherefore justify this practice but a particular commission from God by his pro­phet, as in the present case, which was ever a sufficient warrant for breaking anytucb ritual or ceremonial law whatsoever.