OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 49 allies, Marcus Aulius was killed, and Lucius Aren-nius taken: of the lictora of the consuls five fell aliveinto the enemy's hands; of the rest, some were slain,the others fled with the consul. Forty-three horse­men fell in the fight and pursuit, and eighteen weremade prisoners. The troops in camp had taken thealarm, and were going fo succor the consuls, whenthey saw one consul, and the other consul's son, bothwounded, and the small remains of the unfortunateparty on their return. The death of Marcellus, un­happy in other respects, was no less so in this, that byconduct, ill becoming either bis age (for he was nowabove sixty years old), or the prudence of a veterancommander, he had so improvidently precipitatedhimself, bis colleague, and, in some measure, thewhole commonwealth, into such desperate hazard. Ishould engage in too many and too long discussions ona single event, if I were to recite all the various rela­tions given by different writers of the death of Mar­cellus. To omit other authors, Lucius Caslius pre­sents us with three different narratives of that occur­rence; one received by tradition: another written andcontained in the funeral panegyric, delivered by hisson, who was present in the action ; and a third, whichhe produces as the real state of the fact, discovered bybis own inquiries. But how much soever reports vary,most of them, notwithstanding, concur in stating thathe went out of his camp to view the ground, and all,that be was slain in an ambuscade. 28. Hannibal, supposing that the enemy must begreatly dismayed by the death of one of their consuls,and the wounds of the other, and wishing not to loseany advantage which a juncture so favorable mightafford, removed his camp immediately to the hill onwhich the battle had been fought. Here he found thebody of Marcellus, and interred it. Crispinus, dis­heartened by his colleague's death and his own wounds,decamped in the silence of the following night, and onthe nearest mountains that he could reach, pitchedhis camp in an elevated spot, secure on all sides. Onliv. vol. v. D