OCR Output 2i8 THE HISTORY BOO K ^commons: now, therefore, on his being a fecond1 -T--• time invefted with that office, thofe, who expectedY.R.i«7. the lands, conceived fanguine hopes of the lawB.C. 465; pafftng. The tribunes, fuppofing that an affair forwhich fuch ftruggles had often been made, in oppo-fition to both the confuls, might probably be ac-complifhed now, when one of thofe magiftrates wasan advocate for it, fet the bufinefs on foot; and theconful continued in the fame lentiments. Tlie pof-feflbrs of the lands, and moft of the patricians, com­plaining loudly that a perfon at the head of the ftateaimed to diftinguifh himfelf, by intrigues more be­coming tribunes, and courted popularity, by mak­ing donations out of other people's property, re­moved the odium of the whole tranfadlion from thetribunes to the conful. A defperate conteft wouldhave enfued, had not Fabius ftruck out an expedientto prevent it, by a plan difagreeable to neitherparty; which was, that, as a confiderable tract ofland had been taken from the Volfcians, in the pre­ceding year, under the conduct and aufpices of TitusQuintius, a colony mould be led off to Antium, atown at no great diftance, convenient in every re-ipect, and a lea-port; by thefe means, the com­mons might come in for lands, without any com­plaints from the prefent poffeflors, and harmonymight be preferved in the ftate. This propofitionwas approved of, and he had cotnmiffioners, calledtriumvirs, appointed to diftribute the lands; thefewere Titus Quintius, A. Virginia*, and Publius Fu-rius; and fuch as chofe to accept of thofe lands, wereordered to give in their names. The gratification oftheir wifhes, as is generally the cafe, inftantly begatdifguft; and fo few gave in their names, that, to fillup the colony, they were obliged to take in a numberof the Volfcians. The reft of the populace chofe ra­ther to profecute claims of land at Rome, than toreceive .immediate pofieffion of it elfewhere. The,/Equans fued to Quintus Fabius for peace, for he hadgone againft them with an army; yet they themfelves broke