OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. should advise), thought it best, by putting him to death, toprevent any mischief he might cause, and not bring himself into-difficulties, by sparing a man who might make him repent of itwhen it should be too late. Accordingly he was sent a prisoner,out of Herod's suspicious temper, to Macherus, the castle I be­fore mentioned, and was there put to death. Now, the Jews hadan opinion that the destruction of this army was sent as a pu­nishment by Herod, and a mark of God's displeasure to him. 3. So Vitellius prepared to make war with Aretas, havingwith him two legions of armed men ; he also took with him allthose of light armature, and of the horsemen which belongedto them, and were drawn out of those kingdoms which were un­der the Romans, and made haste for Petra, and came to Ptole-mais. But as he was marching very busily, and leading his ar­my through Judea, the principal men met him, and desired thathe would not thus march through their land ; for that the lawsof their country would not permit them to overlook those ima­ges which were brought into it, of which there were a great ma-ny in their ensigns ; so he was persuailid by what they said, andchanged that resolution of his, which he had before taken in thismatter. Whereupon he ordered the army to march along thegreat plain, while he himself, with Herod the tetrarch, and hisfriends, went up to Jerusalem to offer sacrifice to God, an ancientfestival of the Jews being then just approaching ; and when he hadbeen there, and been honourably entertained by the multitude ofthe Jews, he made a stay there for three days, within which timehe deprived Jonathan of the high-priesthood, and gave it to hisbrother Theopbilus. But when on the fourth day letters cameto him, which informed him of the death of Tiberius, he obligedthe multitude to take an oath of fidelity to Caius ; he also recall­ed his army, and made them every one go home, and take theirwinter-quarters there, since, upon the devolution of the empireupon Caius, he had not the like authority of making this warwhich he had before. It was also reported, that when Aretasheard of the coming of Vitellius to fight him, he said, upon hisconsulting the diviners, that it was impossible that this army ofVitellius's could enter Petra ; for that one of the rulers woulddie, either he that gave orders for the war, or he that wasmarching at the other's desire, in order to be subservient to hiswill, or else he against whom this army is prepared. So Vitel­lius truly retired to Antioch ; but Agrippa, the son of Aristobu-lus, went up to Rome, a year before the death of Tiberius, inorder to treat of -some affairs with the emperor, if he.might beermitted so to do. 1 have now a mind to describe Herod andis family, how it fared with them, partly because it is suitableVol. III. K tp