OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 369 to use them as guides into Thessaly. With the samepurpose, many volunteers of the Epirots also were ad­mitted into the corps of auxiliaries. 15. Of the cities of Thessaly, the first which he at­tacked was Phaleria. The garrison here consisted oftwo thousand Macedonians, who made at first a mostvigorous resistance, availing themselves, to the utmost,of every advantage that their arms and works couldafford. The assault was carried on without intermis­sion or relaxation, either by day or by night, becausethe consul thought that it would have a powerfuleffect on the spirits of the rest of the Thessalians, ifthe first who made trial of the Roman strength wereunable to withstand it; and this at the same time sub­dued the obstinacy of the Macedonians. On the re­duction of Phaleria, deputies came from Metropolisand Piera, surrendering those cities. To them, on theirpetition, pardon was granted: Phaleria was sacked,and burned. He then proceeded to yEginium; butfinding this place so circumstanced that, even with amoderate garrison, it was safe, after discharging a fewweapons against the nearest advanced guard, he di­rected his march towards the territory of Gomphi;and thence, into the plains of Thessaly. His armywas now in want of every thing, because he had sparedthe lands of the Epirots; he therefore despatched mes­sengers to learn whether the transports had reachedLeucas and the Ambracian bay; sending the cohorts,in turn, to Ambracia for corn. Now the road fromGomphi to Ambracia, although difficult and embar­rassed, is very short: so that in a few days provisionswere brought up from the sea in abundance. He thenmarched to Atrax, which is about ten miles from La-rissa, on the river Peneus. The inhabitants came ori­ginally from Perrhasbia. The Thessalians here werenot in the least alarmed at the first coming of the Ro­mans; and Philip, although be durst not himself ad­vance into Thessaly, yet, keeping bis station in thevale of Tempe, whenever any place was attempted byliv. vol. v. 2 a