OCR Output CHAP. XLlJ Of THE ROMAN EMPIRE. moved that guarded the entrance of the port; the gateswere thrown open, and the people, with acclamations ofgratitude, hailed and invited their Roman deliverers.The defeat of the Vandals, and the freedom of Africa,were announced to the city on the eve of St. Cyprian,when the churches were already adorned and illuminatedfor the festival of the martyr, whom three centuries ofsuperstition had almost raised to a local deity. TheArians, conscious that their reign had expired, resignedthe temple to the Catholics, who rescued their saint fromprofane hands, performed the holy rites, and loudly pro­claimed the creed of Athanasius and Justinian. Oneawful hour reversed the fortunes of the contending par­ties. The suppliant Vandals, who had so lately indulgedthe vices of conquerors, sought an humble refuge inthe sanctuary of the church; while the merchants ofthe east were delivered from the deepest dungeon of thepalace by their affrighted keeper, who implored the pro­tection of his captives, and shewed them, through anaperture in the wall, the sails of the Roman fleet. Af­ter their separation from the army, the naval commandershad proceeded with slow caution along the coast, tillthey reached the Hermaean promontory, and obtainedthe first intelligence of the victory of Belisarius. Faith­ful to his instructions, they would have cast anchor abouttwenty miles from Carthage, if the more skilful seamenhad not represented the perils of the shore, and thesigns of an impending tempest. Still ignorant of the re­volution, they declined, however, the rash attempt offorcing the chain of the port; and the adjacent harbourand suburb of Mandracium were insulted only by the ra­pine of a private officer who disobeyed and deserted hisleaders. But the imperial fleet, advancing with a fairwind, steered through the narrow entrance of the Go-letta, and occupied, in the deep and capacious lake ofTunis, a secure station about five miles from the capital.' 1 The neighbourhood of Carthage, the sea, the land, and the rivers, are changed