OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. any certain account of his departure from the port ofCarthage. Such unsuspecting loyalty removed the ap­prehensions of Justinian: envy was silenced and inflamedby the public gratitude ; and the third Africanus obtainedthe honours of a triumph, a ceremony which the city ofConstantinople had never seen, and which ancient Rome,since the reign of Tiberius, had reserved for the auspi­cious arms of the Caesars.1 From the palace of Belisarrius, the procession was conducted through the principalstreets to the hippodrome; and this memorable dayseemed to avenge the injuries of Genseric, and to ex­piate the shame of the Romans. The wealth of nationswas displayed, the trophies of martial or effeminate lux­ury; rich armour, golden thrones, and the chariots ofstate which had been used by the Vandal queen; themassy furniture of the royal banquet, the splendour ofprecious stones, the elegant forms of statues and vases,the more substantial treasure of gold, and the holy ves­sels of the Jewish temple, which, after their long pere­grination, were respectfully deposited in the Christianchurch of Jerusalem. A long train of the noblest Van­dals reluctantly exposed their lofty stature and manlycountenance. Gelimer slowly advanced: he was cladin a purple robe, and still maintained the majesty of aking. Not a tear escaped from his eyes, not a sigh washeard; but his pride or piety derived some secret conso­lation from the words of Solomon,11 which he repeatedlypronounced, vanity ! vanity! all is vanity! In­stead of ascending a triumphal car drawn by four horsesor elephants, the modest conqueror marched on foot atthe head of his brave companions; his prudence might 'After the title of imperator had lost the old military sense, and the Roman aus­pices were abolished by Christianity,(see La Bleterie, Mem. de i'Academie, tom. 21.p. 302—332.) a triumph might be given with less inconsistency to a private general. k If the Ecclesiastes be truly a work of Solomon, and not, like Prior's poem, apious and moral composition of more recent times, in his name, and on the subject ofhis repentance. The latter is the opinion of the learned and free-spirited Grotius ,(Opp. Theolog. tom. 1. p. 258.) and indeed the Ecclesiastes and Proverbs display alarger compass of thought and experience than seem to belong either to a Jew or aking.