OCR Output THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. In the first place, under the command of Cimon* son of*Miltiades, they laid siege to Eion, a town upon the Strymoiipossessed by the Medes, which they carried, and sold allfound within it for slaves. They afterwards did the same byScyros, an island in the iEgean sea, inhabited by the Dolopes,and placed in it a colony of their own people. They had, far­ther, a war with the Carysthians singly, in which the rest ofthe Euboeans were unconcerned, who at length submitted tothem upon terms.—After this they made war upon the Nax-ians, who had revolted, and reduced them by a siege. Thiswas the first confederate-state which was enslaved to gratifytheir aspiring ambition ; though afterwards all the rest, as op­portunity occurred, had the same fate. The occasions of such revolts were various ; though theprincipal were deficiencies in their quotas of tribute andshipping, and refusals of common service. For the Athe­nians exerted their authority with exactness and rigour, andlaid heavy loads upon men, who had neither been accus­tomed nor were willing to bear oppression. Their me­thod of command was soon perverted; they no longercared to make it agreeable, and in general service disal­lowed an equality, as it was now more than ever in theirpower to force revolters to submission. But these points theconfederates had highly facilitated by their own proceed­ings. For, through a reluctancy of mingling in frequentexpeditions, a majority of them, to redeem their personalattendance, were rated at certain sums of money, equivalentto the expence of the ships they ought to have furnished. • Cimon was a great general) a worthy patriot, brave, open, and ingeni­ous, upright in his political conduct like Aristides, and though an able po­litician, yet not so mischievously refined as to discard honesty and sincerityfrom public measures. His father Miltiades, after performing most signalservices to his country, was heavily fined, thrown into prison, because una­ble to pay, and there ended his days. Cimon afterwards paid the fine, is nowgoing also to perform great services to the state, is afterwards banished, butrecalled, and again employed in foreign commands, dying at last in theservice of his country, highly regretted, not only at Athens, but throughoutGreece.