OCR Output LEPREUM.101 LEPTIS. whole we mar safely place them in the group of theAlps, of which the Mont St. Gothard is the centre,and from which the Rhone and the Rhine, as wellas the Reus* and the Ticino. take their rise. Thename of Vol Isvantina, still given to the uppervalley of the Ticino, near the foot of the St. Gothard,is Terr probably derived from the name of the Le-pontii. Their chief town, according to Ptolemy,was Oscela or Oscella, which is generally supposedto be Dome d Otsola; but, as the LepontH areerroneously placed by him in the Cottian Alps, it isperhaps more probable that the town meant by himis the Ocelum of Caesar (now Uxeau), which wasreally situated in that district. [Ocklum.] The name of Alfes Letontiae, or LepontianAip$, is generally given by modern geographers tothe part of this chain extending from Monte RosaV> the St. Gothard; but there is no ancient autho­rity fur this use of the term. [E. H. B.] LETREUM (to AcxpeoK, Scyl., Strab., Polyb.;Acrpfot, Paus., Aristoph. At. 149; AeVptoK, Ptol.iii. 16. § 18: Eth. A«wp«diTT/s), the chief town ofTriphylia in Elis, was situated in the southern partof the district, at the distance of 100 stadia fromSamicnm, and 40 stadia from the sea. (Strab. vili.p. 344.) Scylax and Ptolemy, less correctly, describeit as lying upon the coast Triphylia is said to havebeta originally inhabited by the Cauconians, whenceL'preum is called by Callimachns (Bymn. in Jov.39) Kawcwvuv trroKitdpoy. The Caucones werean>rwards expelled by the Minyae, who took posses-aoo of Lepreum. (Herod, iv. 148.) Subsequently,and probably soon after the Messenian wars, Le-pram and the other cities of Triphylia were sub­dual by the Eleians* who governed them as subjectpiares. [See Vol. I. p. 818, b.] The Triphyliancities, however, always bore this yoke with impa­tience; and Lepreum took the lead in their frequentittempts to shake off the Eleian supremacy. Thegreater importance of Lepreum is shown by the factthat it was the only one of the Triphylian towns*bich took part in the Persian wars. (Herod, ix.2r*.) In b. c. 421 Lepreum, supported by Sparta,revolted from ElU (Thuc. v. 31); and at last, in400, the Eleians, by their treaty with Sparta, wereobliged to relinquish their authority over Lepreumand the other Triphyliau towns. (Xen. Hell. iii. 2.§25.) When the Spartan power had been brokenby tbe battle of l^euctra (b. c. 371), the Spartansendeavoured to recover their supremacy over Le-pteiim and the other Triphylian towns; but theto'.er protected themselves by becoming members ofthe Arcadian confederacy, which had been recentlyfounded by Epaminondas. (Xen. Hell vi. 5. §2,»*$-) Hence Lepreum is called an Arcadian townby ScyUx and Pliny, the latter of whom erroneouslyspeaks both of a Leprion in Elis (iv. 5. s. 6), and ofi Ufffvon in Arcadia (iv. 5. a. 10). Pausanias alsosate* that the Lepreatae in his time claimed to beArcadians; but he observes that they had been sub­ject* of the Eleians from ancient times,—that asoacy of them as had been victors in the publicraraes were proclaimed as Eleians from Lepreus,—a&ii tliai Aristophanes describes Lepreus as a city ofu> Eleuuia. (Paus. v. 5. § 3.) After the time ofAkiander the Eleians again reduced the Triphyliancirjta, which therefore were obliged to join the Ae-t'liao league along with the Eleians. But whenMaBp, in his war with the Aetolians, marched intoTriphjfia, the inhabitants of Lepreum rose againstthe Ektaa garrison in their town, and declared in Tom. favour of Philip, who thus obtained possession of theplace. (Polyb. iv. 77, 79, 80.) In the time of Pau­sanias the ouly monument in Lepreum was a templeof Demeter, built of brick. In the vicinity of thetown was a fountain named Arene. (Paus. v. 5. § 6.)The territory of Lepreum was rich and fertile. (XwpatvSaiuwv, Strab. viii. p. 345.) The ruins of Lepreum are situated upon a hill,near the modern village of Strovitzi. These ruinsshow that Lepreum was a town of some size. Aplan of them is given by the French Commission,which is copied in the work of Curtius. They werefirst described by Dodwell. It takes half an hour toascend from the first traces of the walls to the acro­polis, which is entered by an ancient gateway. "Thetowers are square; one of them is almost entire, andcontains a small window or arrow hole. A trans­verse wall is carried completely across the acropolis,by which means it was anciently divided into twoparts. The foundation of this wall, and part of theelevation, still remain. Three different periods ofarchitecture are evident in this fortress. The wallsare composed of polygons: some of the towers con­sist of .irregular, and others of rectangular quadri­laterals. The ruins extend far below the acropolis,on the side of the hill, and are seen on a flat de­tached knoll." (Dodwell, Tour through Greece^vol. ii. p. 347 ; Leake, Morea% vol. i. p. 56; Bob-laye, Recherches, rt/c. p. 135; Curtius, Pelopon~nesos, vol. ii. p. 84.) LE'PSIA (Lipso), a small island of the Icariansea, in the north of Leros, and opposite to the coast ofCaria. It is not mentioned by any ancient authorexcept Pliny (//. A* v. 34). *" [L. S.] LEPTE (Aevrurfe &itpa, Ptol. iv. 5; Plin. vi. 29s. 34), the modern Rcu-el-Auf, in lat. 23° N., wasa headland of Upper Egypt, upon the confines ofAethiopia, which projected into the Red Sea at SinusImmundus {Foul Bay). It formed the extremityof a volcanic range of rocks abounding in mines ofgold, copper and topaz. [W. B. D.] LEPTIS, a town of Hispania Baetica, mentionedonly in the Bell. Alex. 57, where the word is perhapsonly a false reading for Laepa, near the mouth ofthe Anas. fP. S.] LEPTIS* (Liv. xxxiv. 62; Caes. B.C. ii. 38;Hirt. Bell. Afr. 6, 7, 9, 62 ; Mela, i. 7. § 2; Plin.v. 4. s. 3), also called by later writers, LEPTISMINOR or PARVA (M*ris tj fdxpa, Ptol. iv. 3.§10; Leptiminus or Lepte Minus, I tin. Ant. p. 58;Tab. Pe«/.; Geogr. Rav. Hi. 5 v. 5 : Eth Leptitani:Lemta, Ru.), a city on the coast of Byzacium, justwithin the SE. headland of the Sinus Neapolitan us,18 M.P. SE. of Hadrumetum, and 33 M.P. NE. ofThysdrus, and one of the most flourishing of thePhoenician colonics on that coast, notwithstandingthe epithet Parva, which is merely used by lalowriters to distinguish it from the still more importantcity of Leitis Magna. It was a colony of Tyre(Sail. Jug. 19; Plin. /. c), and, under the Car­thaginians, it was the most important place in thewealthy district of Empoihae, and its wealth wassuch that it paid to Carthage the daily tribute ofa Euboic talent. (Liv. /. c.) Under the Romansit was a libera civitas, at least in Pliny's time:whether it became a colony afterwards depends onthe question, whether the coins bearing the name ofLeitis belong to this city or to Lop t is Magna. * Derived from a Phoenician word signifyinga naval station.