OCR Output CHAP. L. 341 they assign the last and most humble place to the hus­band of Fatima, in the persuasion that the order of suc­cession was determined by the degrees of sanctity.m Anhistorian who balances the four caliphs with a hand un­shaken by superstition, will calmly pronounce, that theirmanners were alike pure and exemplary; that their zealwas fervent, and probably sincere; and that, in the midstof riches and power, their lives were devoted to the prac­tice of moral and religious duties. But the public vir­tues of Abubeker and Omar, the prudence of the first, theseverity of the second, maintained the peace and pros­perity of their reigns. The feeble temper and decliningage of Othman were incapable of sustaining the weightof conquest and empire. He chose, and he was deceived;he trusted, and he was betrayed; the most deserving ofthe faithful became useless or hostile to his government,and his lavish bounty was productive only of ingratitudeand discontent. The spirit of discord went forth in theprovinces, their deputies assembled at Medina, and theCharegites, the desperate fanatics who disclaimed theyoke of subordination and reason, were confoundedamong the free-born Arabs, who demanded the redressof their wrongs and the punishment of their oppressors.From Cufa, from Bassora, from Egypt, from the tribes ofthe desert, they rose in arms, encamped about a league fromMedina, and dispatched a haughty mandate to their so­vereign, requiring him to execute justice, or to descendfrom the throne. His repentance began to disarm anddisperse the insurgents; but their fury was rekindled bythe arts of his enemies; and the forgery of a perfidioussecretary was contrived to blast his reputation and preci­pitate his fall. The caliph had lost the only guard of his m This gradation of merit is distinctly marked in a creed, illustrated by Reland;(de Relig. Mohamrn. lib. 1. p. 37.) and a Sonnite argument inserted by Ocfcley.(Hist, of the Saracens, torn. 2. p. f30.) The practice of cursing the memory ofAli was abolished, after forty years, by the Ommiades themselves; (d'Herbelot,p. 690.) and there are few among the Turks who presume to revile him as an in-fiM. (Voyages de Chardin, torn. 4. p. 46.)