OCR Output 365 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. | strongly fortified; but so as to a void a direct conflict with themin the plains. In Sepphoris also, a city of Galilee, there was oneJudas, (the son of that arch-robber Hezekias, who formerly over足ran the country, and had been subdued by king Herod); thistnan got no small multitude together, and brake open the placewhere the royal armour was laid up, and armed those about him,and attacked those that were so earnest to gain the dominion. 2. In Perea also, Simon, one of the servants to the king, re.lying upon the handsome' appearance, and lallness of his body,put a diadem upon his own head also; he also went about witha cornpany of robbers that he had gotten together, and burntdown the royal palace that was at Jericho, and many other costlyedifices besides, and procuredhimself very easily spoils by rapine,as snatching them out of the fire. And he had soon burnt downall the fine edifices, if Gratus, the captain of the foot of the king'sparty, had not taken the Trachonite archers, and the most war足like of Sebaste, and met the man. His footmen were slain in thebattle in abundance; Gratus also cut to pieces Simon himself, ashe was flying along a strait valley, when he gave him an obliqueStroke upon his neck, as he ran away, and brake it. The royalpalaces that were near Jordan at Betharamptha were also burntdown by some other of the seditious that came out of Perea. 3. At this time it was that a certain shepherd ventured to setiiimself up for a king; he was called Atbrongeus, It was hisStrength of body that made him expect such a dignity, as well ashis soul, which despised death; and, besides these qualifications,he had four brethren like himself. He put a troop of armed menunder each of these his brethren, and made use of them as his ge.nerals and commanders, when he made his incursions, while hedid himself act like a king, and meddled only with the more im.portant affairs: and at this time he put a diadem about his head,and continued after that to over-run the Country for no littletime with his brethren, and became their leader in killing boththe Romans and those of the king's party; nor did any Jewescape him, if any gain could accrue to him thereby. He onceventured to encompass a whole troop of Romans at Emniaus,who were carrying corn and weapons to their legion; his mentherefore shot their arrows and darts, and thereby slew their cen足turion Arius, and forty of the stoutestof his men,whilethe restofthem, who were indanger of the same fate, upon the coming of Gra.tus,with those of Sebaste, to their assistance, escaped. And whenthese men had thus served both theirown countrymen andforeign-crs, and thatthrough this whole war,threeof them were aftersometime subdued, the eldest by Archelaus, the two next by fallinginto the hands of Gratus and Ptolemeus; but the fourth deli足vered