OCR Output 38* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI. "kind entertainments made both by our nation and our city,"to a man who is the ruler and manager of so much of the pub-"lie affairs, as indications of that friendship which thou hast re-"turned to the Jewish nation, and v.'hich hath been procured"them by the family of Herod. So we put thee in mind of these"things, in the presence of the king, now sitting by thee, and"make our request for no more but this, that what you have''' given us yourselves, you will not see taken away by others"from us." 5. When Nicolaus had made this speech, there was no oppo­sition made to it by the Greeks, for this was not an inquirymade, as in a court of justice, but an intercession to preventviolence to be offered to the Jews any longer; nor did the Greeksmake any defence of themselves, or deny what it was supposedthey had done. Their pretence was no more than this, thatwhile the Jews inhabited in their country, they were entirelyunjust to them [in not joining in their worship,] but they de­monstrated their generosity in this, that though they worship­ped according to their own institutions, they did nothing thatought to grieve them. So when Agrippa perceived that theyhad been oppressed by violence, he made this answer: "That"on account of Herod's good-will and friendship, he was ready"to grant the Jews whatsoever they should ask him, and that"their requests seemed to him in themselves just; and that if"they requested any thing farther, he should not scruple to"grant it them, provided it was no way to the detriment of"the Roman government; but that, while their request was"no more than this, that what privileges they had already gi-"ven them might not be abrogated, he confirmed this to them,"that they might continue in the observation of their own cus-"toms, without any one's offering them the least injury." Andwhen he had said this, he dissolved the assembly; upon whichHerod stood up, and saluted him, and gave him thanks for thekind' disposition he showed to them. Agrippa also took this ina very obliging manner, and saluted him again, and embracedhim in his arms; after which he went away from Lesbos; butthe king determined to sail from Samos to his own country;and when he had taken his leave of Agrippa, he pursued hisvoyage, and landed at Caesarea in a few days time, as having fa­vourable winds, from whence he went to Jerusalem, and theregathered all the people together to an assembly, not a fewbeing there out of the country also. So he came to them, andgave them a particular account of all his journey, and of the af­fairs of all the Jews in Asia, how by his means they would livewithout injurious treatment for the time to come. He also toldthem of the entire good fortune he had met *vith, and how he