OCR Output B. III. TEAR VI.—BETORE CHRIST 426. 283 was within their borders, they were all drawn together in anumerous body for their mutual defence: Nay, even themost distant Ophionians, who are seated upon the Meliacbay, the Bomiensians and Calliensians were already comeup. The Messenians continued to amuse Demosthenes withthe same suggestions as at first: They still insisted, that theconquest of the iEtolians would be an easy performance, andadvised him to advance immediately against their villages,nor give them time to gather together in a body to opposehim, but to attack every place he came to, and take it. Thisadvice being quite to his own taste, and relying upon his owngood fortune, which hitherto had never been checked, with­out waiting for the Locrians, who were very much wanted,and were to have joined him (for he stood most in need oflight-armed darters), he advanced to iEgitium, and assault­ing, takes it by storm. The inhabitants made their escape,and posted themselves upon the hills which overlook thetown. It was situated amongst lofty eminences, and distantfrom the sea about eighty stadia*. But now the iEtolians, who were come up for the pre­servation of iEgitium, running down in separate bodies fromdifferent eminences, made an attack upon the Athenians andallies, and poured in their javelins amongst them : And when­ever the Athenian army approached to charge, they plied be­fore them; when they again fell back, these again returned tothe charge. This kind of engagement continued for a longtime, a series of alternate pursuits and retreats, in both whichthe Athenians suffered most. So long however as theirarchers had darts, and opportunity to use them, they lost noground ; for the light armed iEtolians fell back to avoid thedarts. But when the chief of the archers dropped, his pajrtywas soon dispersed, and the whole army began to incline.Their strength was quite exhausted by so many repeatedrharges ; and now, the iEtolians pressing hard upon them,• About eight miles.