OCR Output 196 EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. [B. V out of the reach of the darts, and did no longer endeavor tohinder the impressions of their rams, which, by continuallybeating upon the wall, did gradually prevail against it; sothat the wall already gave way to the Nico; for by that namedid the Jews themselves call the greatest of their engines,because it conquered all things. And now they were for along while grown weary of fighting, and of keeping guards,and were retired to lodge on the night-times at a distancefrom the wall. It was on other accounts also thought bythem to be superfluous to guard the wall, there being besidesthat two other fortifications still remaining, and they beingslothful, and their counsels having been ill-concerted on alloccasions ; so a great many grew lazy, and retired. Then theRomans mounted the breach, where Nico had made one, andall the Jews left the guarding that wall, and retreated to thesecond wall: so those that had gotten over that wall openedthe gates, and received all the army within it. And thus didthe Romans get possession of this first wall, on the fifteenthday of the siege, which was the seventh day of the monthArtemisius [Jyar,] when they demolished a great part of it,as well as they did of the northern parts of the city, whichhad been demolished also by Cestius formerly. 3. And now Titus pitched his camp within the city, at thatplace which was called the Camp of the Assyrians, havingseized upon all that lay as far as Cedron, but took care to beout of the reach of the Jews' darts. He then presently beganhis attacks, upon which the Jews divided themselves intoseveral bodies, and courageously defended that wall, whileJohn and his faction did it from the tower of Antonia, andfrom the northern cloister of the temple, and fought the Ro­mans before the monuments of king Alexander ; and Simon'sarmy also took for their share the spot of ground that wasnear John's monument, and fortified it as far as to that gatewhere water was brought into the tower Hippicus. However,the Jews made violent sallies, and that frequently also, andin bodies together, out of the gates, and there fought theRomans; and when they were pursued all together to thewall, they were beaten in those fights, as wanting the skill of