OCR Output 200 THE DECLINE AND FALL CHAP.XXXVII. Laws ofthe kingsof Rome. They piously commemorate his virtues; dissembleor deny his failings; and fiercely chastise the guiltor folly of the rebels who presume to sully the ma­jesty of the purple. The idolatry of love has pro­voked, as it usually happens, the rancour of opposi­tion; the character of Justinian has been exposed tothe blind vehemence of flattery and invective, andthe injustice of a sect (the Anti-Tribonians) has re­fused all praise and merit to the prince, his ministers,and his laws. Attached to no party, interested onlyfor the truth and candour of history, and directedby the most temperate and skilful guides*, I enterwith just diffidence on the subject of civil law, whichhas exhausted so many learned lives, and clothed thewalls of such spacious libraries. In a single, if pos­sible, in a short chapter, I shall trace the Romanjurisprudence from Romulus to Justinian, appreciatethe labours of that emperor, and pause to contemplatethe principles of a science so important to the peaceand happiness of society. The laws of a nation formthe most instructive portion of its history; and, al­though I have devoted myself to write the annals ofa declining monarchy, I shall embrace the occasionto breathe the pure and invigorating air of the re­public. The primitive government of Rome was composedwith some political skill, of an elective king, a coun­cil of nobles, and a general assembly of the people.War and religion were administered by the suprememagistrate; and he alone proposed the laws, which • At the head of these guides I shall respectfully place the learned and per­spicuous Heineccius, a German professor, who died at Halle in the year 1741 (see his Eloge, in the Nouvelle Bibliotheque Gerraanique, tom. ii. p. 51 64). His ample works have been collected in eight volumes in 4to. Geneva, 1743 1748. The treatises which I have separately used are, 1. Historia Juris Romaniet Germanici, Ludg. Batav. 1740, in 8vo. 2. Syntagma Antiquitatum Homa-nam Jurisprudentiam illustrantiam, 2 vols, in 8vo. Traject. ad Rhcnum. 3. Ele­ments Juris Civilis secundum Ordinem Institutionum, Ludg. Bat . 1751, in 8to.4. Eleraenta J. C. secundum Ordinem Pandectarum, Traject. 1772, in 8vo. 2vols.