OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 265 cils governed the people; the first was at Jerusalem, the secondat Gadara, the third at Amathus, the fourth at Jericho, and thefifth in Sepphoris in Galilee. So the Jews were now freedfrom monarchic authority, and were governed by an * aristo­cracy. CHAP. VL How Gabinius caught Aristobulus after he had Jled from Rome,and sent him back to Borne again; and how the same Gabinius,as he returned out of Egypt, overcame Alexander and the Na-bateans in battle. 5 1. .N ow Aristobulus ran away from Rome to Judea, andset about the rebuilding of Alexandrium, which had beennewly demolished: Hereupon Gabinius sent soldiers against him,and for their commanders Sisenna, and Antonius, and fc'ervil-ius, in order to hinder him from getting possession of thecountry, and to take him again. And indeed many of the Jewsran to Aristobulus, on account of his former glory, as also be­cause they should be glad of an innovation. Now, there was onePitholaus, a lieutenant at Jerusalem, who deserted to him with athousand men, although a great number of those that came tohim were unarmed ; and when Aristobulus had resolved to go toMacherus, he dismissed those people, because they were un­armed, for they could not be useful to him in what actions they'were going about, but he took with him eight thousand thatwere armed, and marched on: and as the Romans fell upon themseverely, the Jews fought valiantly, but were beaten in the bat­tle and when they had fought with alacrity, but were over­borne by the enemy, they were put to flight; of whom wereslain about five thousand, and the rest being dispersed, tried aswell as they were able, to save themselves. However, Aristo­bulus had with him still above a thousand, and with them he>fled to Macherus and fortified the place, and though he had hadill success, he still had good hope of his affairs: but when he hadstruggled against the siege for two days' time, and had receivedmany wounds, he was brought as a captive to Gabinius, withhis son Antigonius, who also fled with him from Rome. Andthis was the fortune of Aristobulus, who was sent back againto Rome, and was there retained in bonds, having been bothking and high priest for three years and six months; and was * Dean Prideaux well observes, " That notwithstanding the clamour against"Gabiuius at Rome, Josephus gives him a laudable character, as if he had ac-"quitted himself with honour in the charge committed to him," [in Judea,]Sec at the year 55.