OCR Output 01? THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 61 could no longer alarm, might sometimes admonish, chap.the successors of Augustus, that they did not reign XIV"over a nation of Slaves or Barbarians *. Thet public establishment of Christianity may herebe considered as one of those important revolutionswhich excite the most lively curiosity, and afford themost valuable instruction. The victories and thecivil policy of Constantine no longer influence thestate of Europe; but a considerable portion of theglobe still retains the impression which it receivedfrom the conversion of that monarch; and the eccle­siastical institutions of his reign are still connected,by an indissoluble chain, with the opinions and theinterests of the present generation. In the consideration of a subject which may be ex­amined with impartiality, but cannot be viewed withindifference, a difficulty immediately arises of a veryunexpected nature; that of ascertaining the real andprecise date of the conversion of Constantine. Theeloquent Lactantius, in the midst of his court, seemsimpatient to proclaim to the world the glorious exam­ple of the sovereign of Gaul, who in the first momentsof his reign acknowledged and adored the majesty ofthe true and only God. The learned Eusebius hasascribed the faith of Constantine to the miraculoussign of the cross which was displayed in the heavenswhilst he meditated and prepared the Italian expedi­tion; but it is certain that his baptism was delayedtill the moment of his death. As long as Constantine exercised a limited sove­reignty over the provinces of Gaul, his Christian * The great Theodosius, in his judicious advice to his son (Claudian. in iv.Consulat. Honorii, 214, &c), distinguishes the station of a Rornan prince fromthat of a Parthian monarch. Virtue. was necessary for the one; birth mightsuffice for the other. f The following short sketch of the legal establishment of the Christian reli­gion in the reign of Constantine is taken from various parts of the 20th chapter'of Mr. Gibbon's History, but the words with very few alterations are the wordsof the original author.—Editor.