OCR Output 206 LIVY. field of Mars, before he called on the centuries to givetheir votes, required their attention, and addressedthem thus :—' Citizens, you seem to me not to under­stand that the question before you is not whether youchoose to have peace or war; for Philip, having al­ready commenced hostilities wilh a formidable force,both on land and sea, allows you not that option. Thequestion is, whether you choose to transport your le­gions to Macedonia, or to suffer the enemy to comeinto Italy? How important the difference is betweenthese two cases, if you knew it not before, you havesufficiently learned in the late Punic war: for who en­tertains a doubt, but if, wben the Saguntines were be­sieged, and implored our protection, we had assistedthem with vigor, as our fathers did the Mamertines,we should have averted the whole weight of the war onSpain; which, by our dilatory proceedings, we suf­fered to our extreme loss to fall on Italy? Nor doesit admit a doubt, that what confined this same Philipin Macedonia, (after he had entered into an engage­ment with Hannibal*, by ambassadors and letters, tocross over into Italy,) was, our sending Laevinus witha fleet to carry the war home to him. And what wedid at that time, when we had Hannibal to contendwith in Italy, do we hesitate to do now, after Hannibalhas been expelled Italy, and the Carthaginians sub­dued? Suppose for an instant that we allow the kingto experience the same inactivity on our part, whilehe is taking Athens, as Hannibal found while he wastaking Saguntum: it will not be in the fifth month, asthe Carthaginian came from Saguntum, but on thefifth day after the Macedonian sets sail from Corinth,that he will arrive in Italy. Perhaps you may notconsider Philip as equal to Hannibal, or the Macedo­nians to the Carthaginians: certainly, however, youwill allow him equal to Pyrrhus. Equal, do I say?what a vast superiority has the one man over theother—the one nation over the other! Epirus everwas, and is at this day, deemed but an inconsiderableaccession to the kingdom of Macedonia. Philip lias