OCR Output aN. 896.] 321 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. the enemy, and wounded the king throughhis breast-plate, in his lungs. Upon this,Ahab resolved not to make his mischanceknown to his army, lest they should run away.But he bade the driver of his chariot to turnit back, and carry him out of the battle, be­cause he was mortally wounded.* However,he sat in his chariot, and endured the paintill sunset, and then he fainted away anddied. At the approach of night the Syrian armyretired to their camp; and when the heraldbelonging to the camp gave notice that Ahabwas dead, they returned home. And theytook the dead body of Ahab to Samaria, andburied it there; but when they had washedhis chariot in the fountain of Jezreel, whichwas bloody with the dead body of the king,they acknowledged that the prophecy ofElijah was true, for the dogs licked his blood,and the harlots continued afterward to washthemselves in that fountain. But still he diedat Ramoth, as Micaiah had foretold. And as what things weref foretold should happen toAhab by the two prophets came to pass, weought thence to have exalted notions of God;and every where to honour and worship him,and never to suppose that what is pleasantand agreeable is worthy of belief before whatis true; and to esteem nothing more advan­tageous than the gift of prophecy, and thatforeknowledge of future events which is de­rived from it. Since God shews men therebywhat they ought to avoid. We may also,from what happened to this king, considerthe power of fate;J that there is no way ofavoiding it, even when we know it. It creepsupon human souls, and flatters them withpleasing hopes, till it leads them about to theplace whence it will be too hard for themAccordingly Ahab appears to have been de­ceived thereby, till he disbelieved those thatpredicted his defeat; but by giving credit tosuch as foretold what was grateful to him, hewas slain; and his son Ahaziah succeededhim. * 1 Kings xxii. 34. t We have here a very wise reflection of Josephus'sabout Divine Providence; and what is derived from it,prophecy; and the inevitable certainty of its accomplish­ment; and that when wicked men think they take propermethods to elude what is denounced against them, and to escape the Divine judgments thereby threatened, withoutrepentance, they are ever, by Providence, infatuated tobring about their own destruction. And thereby withalto demonstrate the perfect veracity of that God whosepredictions they endeavour to elude.J Or Divine Providence.