OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. peninsula to Trebizond the eastern curve of the Euxinewas secured by forts, by alliance, or by religion: andthe possession of Lazica, the Colchos of ancient, theMingrelia of modern, geography, soon became the ob­ject of an important war. Trebizond, in after-times theseat of a romantic empire, was indebted to the liberalityof Justinian for a church, an aqueduct, and a castle,whose ditches are hewn in the solid rock. From thatmaritime city, a frontier-line of five hundred miles maybe drawn to the fortress of Circesium, the last Roman6tation on the Euphrates.™ Above Trebizond immedi­ately, and five days' journey to the south, the countryrises into dark forests and craggy mountains, as savage,though not so lofty, as the Alps and the Pyrenees. Inthis rigorous climate," where the snows seldom melt, thefruits are tardy and tasteless; even honey is poisonous;the most industrious tillage would be confined to somepleasant valleys; and the pastoral tribes obtained a scantysustenance from the flesh and milk of their cattle. TheChalybians0 derived their name and temper from the ironquality of the soil; and, since the days of Cyrus, theymight produce, under the various appellations of Chal­deans, and Zanians, an uninterrupted prescription of warand rapine. Under the reign of Justinian, they acknow­ledged the God and the emperor of the Romans, and deserved the cariosity of Busbequius (p. 321—326.); hat seem to have vanished inthe more recent account of the Missions da Levant, (tom. 1.) Tott, Peyssonel, &o. m For the geograpby and architecture of this Armenian border, see the PersianWars and Edifices (lib. 2. o.4—7. lib.3. c. 2—7.) of Procopius, "The country is described by Togrnefort. (Voyage au Levant, tom. 3. lettre 17,18.) That skilful botanist soon discovered the plant that infects the honey. (Plin,21. 44, 45.) He observes, that the soldiers of Lucnllas might indeed be astonishedat the cold, since, even in the plain of Erzerum, snow sometimes falls in Jane, and theharvest is seldom finished before September. The hills of Armenia are below thefortieth degree of latitude; but in the mountainous country which I inhahit, it is wellknown that an ascent of some hours carries the traveller from the climate of Langae?doc to that of Norway, and a general theory has been introduced, that under the line,an elevation of two thousand four hundred toises is equivalent to the cold of the polarcircle. (Romond, Observations sur les Voyages de Coxe dans la Suisse, tom. 2.p. 104.) • The identity or proximity of the Chalyhians, or Chaldeans, may be investigatedin Strabo, (lib. 12. p. 825, 826.) Cellarius, Geograph. Antiq. tom. 2. p. 202—204.)and Freret (Mem. de I'Academic, tom. 4. p. 594.) Xenophnn supposes, in his ro­mance, (Cyropaed. lib. 3.) the same harharians against whom he had fought iu his re­treat. (Anahasis, lib. iv.)