OCR Output NOTES ON THE SEVENTH CHAPTER. xxvii ing, were chiefly bears, boars, bulls, stags, elks,wild asses, &c. Elephants and lions seem to havebeen appropriated to imperial magnificence. [17] See the original letter, in the AugustanHistory, p. 152, which at once Ihews Alexander'srespect for the authority of the senate, and hisesteem for the proconsul appointed by it. [18] By each of his concubines, the younger Gordian left three or four children. His literary productions, though less numerous, were by nomeans contemptible. [19] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 243. Hist. August,p. 144. [20] Quod tamen patres dum periculosum ex-ifiimant; inermes armato resistere approbaverunt.durelius ViSor. [21] Even the servants of the house, the scribes,&c. were excluded, and their office was filled by thesenators themselves. We are obliged to the Au­gustine History, p. 159, for preserving this curiousexample of the old discipline of the commonwealth. [22] This spirited speech, tranflated from the Au­gustan historian, p. 156, seems transcribed by himfrom the original registers of the senate. [23] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 244, [24] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 247. 1. viii. p. 277.Hist-August, p. 156—158. [25] Herodian, 1. vii. p. 254. Hist. August,p. 158—160. We may observe, that one monthand six days, for the reign of Gordian, is a just cor­rection of Cafaubon and Panvinius, instead of theabsurd reading of one year and six months. SeeCommentar. p. 193. Zosimus relates, 1. i. p. 17.that the two Gordians peristied by a tempest in themidst of their navigation. A strange ignorance ofhistory, or a strange abuse of metaphors! [26] See the Augustan History, p. 166, fromthe registers of the senate; the date is confessedlyfaulty, but the coincidence of the Apollinariangames enables us to correct it. [27] He was descended from Cornelius Balbus,a noble Spaniard, and the adopted son of The-ophanes the Greek historian. Balbus obtained thefreedom of Rome by the favour of Pompey, and preserved it by the eloquence of Cicero (see Orat.pro Cornel. Balbo). The friendship of Cæsar,(to whom he rendered the most important secret ser­vices in the civil war) raised him to the consulshipand the potificate, honours never yet possessed by astranger. The nephew of this Balbus triumphedover the Garamantes. See Dictionnaire de Bayle aumot Balbus, where he distinguishes the several per­sons of that name, and rectifies, with his usual ac­curacy, the mistakes of former writers concerningthem. [28] Zonaras, 1. xii. p. 622. But little depend-ance is to be had on the authority of a moderateGreek, so grossly ignorant of the history of the thirdcentury, that he creates several imaginary emperors,and confounds those who really existed. [29] Herodian, I. vii. p. 256, supposes that thesenate was at first convoked in the capitol, and isvery eloquent on the occasion. The Augustan His­tory, p. 1 (6, seems much more authentic. [30] In Herodian, I. vii. p. 249, and in the Au­gustan History, we have three several orations ofMaximin to his army, on the rebellion of Africa andRome: M. de Tillemont has very justly observed,that they neither agree with each other, nor withtruth. Histoire des Empereurs, torn. iii. p. 799. [31] The carelessness of the writers of that ageleaves us in a singular perplexity. 1. We knowthat Maximus and Balbinus were killed during thecapitoline games. Herodian, 1. viii. p. 285. Theauthority of Censorious (de Die Natali, c. 18.) en­ables us to fix those games with certainty to theyear 238, but leaves us in ignorance of the month orday. 2. The election of Gordian by the senate,is sixt, with equal certainty, to the 27th of May;but we are at a loss to discover, whether it was in.the fame or the preceding year. Tillemont andMuratori, who maintain the two opposite opinions,bring into the field a desultory troop of authorities,conjectures, and probabilities. The one seems todraw out, the other to contract the series of events,between those periods, more than can be well re­conciled to reason and history. Yet it is necessaryto chuse between them. [32] Velleius Paterculus, 1. ii. c.n. The pre­sident de Montesquieu (in his dialogue betweenSylla and Eucrates) expresses the sentiments of thedictator, in a spirited and even a sublime manner,d 2 [33] Muratori