OCR Output 324 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X V and this Herod was the third, who took that high office away[from Ananelus,] and gave it to this young man, Aristobulus,in his stead. 2. And now Herod seemed to have healed the divisions in hisfamily: yet was he not without suspicion, as is frequently thecase, of people seeming to be reconciled to one another, butthought that, as Alexandra had already made attempts tendingto innovations, so did he fear that she would go on therein, ifshe found a fit opportunity for so doing; so he gave a command,that she should dwell in the palace, and meddle with no publicaffairs: her guards also were so careful, that nothing she did inprivate life every day was concealed. All these hardships puther out of patience, by little and little, and she began to hateHerod; for as she had the pride of a woman to the utmost de­gree, she had great indignation at this suspicious guard that wasabout her, as desirous rather to undergo any thing that could be­fall her, than to be deprived of her liberty of speech, and, underthe notion of an honorary guard, to live in a state of slaveryand terror. She therefore sent to Cleopatra, and made a longcomplaint of the circumstances she was in, and entreated her todo her utmost for her assistance. Cleopatra hereupon advisedher to take her son with her, and come away immediately to herinto Egypt. This advice pleased her; and she had this contri­vance for getting away: she got two coffins made, as if theywere to carry away two dead bodies, and put herself into one,and her son into the other, and gave orders to such of herservants, as knew of her intentions, to carry them away in thenight time. Now their road was to be thence to the seaside,and there was a ship ready to carry them into Egypt. NowJEsop, one of her servants, happened to fall upon Sabion, oneof her friends, and spake of this matter to him, as thinking hehad known of it before. -When Sabion knew this, (who had for­merly been an enemy of Herod's, and been esteemed one of thosethat laid snares for, and gave the poison to [his father] Antipa-ter,) he expected that this discovery would change Herod'shatred into kindness, so he told the king of this private strata­gem of Alexandra's: Whereupon he suffered her to proceedto the execution of her project, and caught her in the veryfact, but still he passed by her offence: and though he hada great mind to do it, he durst not inflict any thing that wassevere upon her, for he knew that Cleopatra would not bearthat he should have her accused, on account of her hatred tohim, but made a show as if it were rather the generosity of hissoul, and his great moderation, that made him forgive them.However, he fully proposed to himself to put this young manout of the way, by one means or other; but he thought he migh t