OCR Output 16 [book I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. by the flood, the pillar of stone might remain,and exhibit those discoveries to mankind;and also inform them that there was anotherpillar of brick erected by them. Now thisremains in the land of Siriad, to this day. CHAP. III. or the deluge: noah's'preservation is an ark, and HIS SUBSEQUENT DEBARKATION AND DEATH. THE posterity of Seth continued to esteemGod as the Lord of the universe, and tohave an entire regard to virtue for seven ge­nerations; but in process of time they wereperverted, and forsook the practices of theirforefathers, and did neither pay those honoursto God which were appointed them, nor hadthey any concern to justice towards men. Butfor what degree of zeal they had formerlyevinced for virtue, they now shewed by theiractions a double degree of wickedness;whereby they made God to be their enemy.For many angels* of Godf accompanied withwomen, and begat sons that proved unjust,and despisers oi all that was good, on accountof the confidence they had in their ownstrength; for the tradition is, that these mendid what resembled the acts of those whomthe Grecians call giants. But Noah was veryuneasy at what they did; and being dis­pleased at their conduct, persuaded them tochange their dispositions and their actionsfor the better. But seeing they did not yieldto him, but were slaves to their wicked plea­sures, he was afraid they would kill him, to­gether with his wife and children, and those they had married, so he departed out of thatland. Now God loved this man for his righteous­ness, yet he not only condemned those othermen ibr their wickedness, but determined todestroy the whole race of mankind, and tomake another race that should be pure fromwickedness, and cutting short their lives, andmaking their years not so many as they for­merly enjoyed, but one hundred and twentyJonly, he turned the dry land into sea. Andthus were all these men destroyed. But Noahalone was saved, for God suggested to himthe following contrivance and way of escape:—That he should make an ark of four storieshigh, three hundred cubits|| long, fifty cubitsbroad, and thirty cubits high.S Accordinglyhe entered into that ark, with his wife, andhis sons and their wives, and put into it; notonly provisions to support their wants there,but also sent in with the rest, all sorts ofliving creatures, the male and his female, forthe preservation of their kinds: and others ofthem by sevens.** Now this ark had firmwalls, and a roof; and was braced with crossbeams, so that it could not be any waydrowned, or overturned by the violence ofthe water: thus was Noah, with his family,preserved. Now he was the tenth from Adam,as being the son of Lamech, whose fatherwas Methusela: he was the son of Enoch, theson of Jared; and Jared was the son of Ma-laleel; who, with many of his sisters, werethe children of Cain, the son of Enos: nowEnos was the son of Seth, the son of Adam. * This notion that the fallen angels were in some sensethe fathers of the old giants, was the constant opinion ofantiquity. t Gen. vi. 4. J Josephus here supposes, that the life of these giants,for of them only do I understand him, was now reducedto one hundred and twenty years; for as to the rest ofmankind, Josephus himself confesses their lives weremuch longer than one hundred and twenty years, for manygenerations after the flood, as we shall see presently: andEe says they were gradually shortened till the days of Mo­ses, and then fixed for some time at one hundred and twenty.Nor indeed need we suppose, that either Enoch or Jose­phus meant to interpret these one hundred and twentyyears for the life of men before the flood to be differentfrom the one hundred and twenty years of God's patience,(perhaps while the Ark was preparing) till the deluge;which I take to be the meaning of God when he threatenedthis wicked world, that if they so long continued impenitent,their days should be no more than one hundred and twentyyears. || A cubit is about twenty-one English inches. § The timber of which the Ark was framed, Moses callsGopher wood; but what tree this Gopher was, is not a littlecontroverted. Some will have it to be the cedar, othersthe pine, others the box, and others (particularly the Ma­hometans) the Indian plane tree. But our learned Fuller,in his miscellanies, has observed, that it was nothing elsebut that which the Greeks call Kwapitftfog, or the cypresstree; for, taking away the termination, cupar andgopher dif­fer very little in the sound. This observation the greatBochart has confirmed, and shown very plainly, that nocountry abounds so much with this wood, as that part ofAssyria which lies about Babylon. To this we may add theobservation of Theophrastus, who speaking of trees thatare least subject to decay, makes the cypress the most dura­ble; for which Bitruvius gives this reason, that the sap,which is in every part of the wood, has a peculiarly bittertaste, and is so very offensive, that no worm or other corro­ding animal will touch it, so that such things as are made ofthis wood, will in a manner last for ever. Universal Hist. B. ** Gen. vii. 2