OCR Output CHAP. XLVII. 83 4 siriian priesthood; the patriarch supplies each vacancywith an Egyptian monk; and the character of a strangerappears more venerable in the eyes of the people, lessdangerous in those of the monarch. In the sixth cen­tury, when the schism of Egypt was confirmed, the rivalchiefs, with their patrons, Justinian and Theodora, stroveto outstrip each other in the conquest of a remote andindependent province. The industry of the ernpres¥was again victorious, and the pious Theodora has esta­blished in that sequestered church the faith and disciplineof the Jacobites.* Encompassed on all sides by the ene­mies of their religion, the ^Ethiopians slept near a thou­sand years, forgetful of the world, by whom they wereThe Porto- forgotten. They were awakened by the Portu-Ab^sinia, guese, who, turning the southern promontory—15505*5 o^ Africa, appeared in India and the Red sea,&c. as if they had descended through the air from a distant planet. In the first moments of their interview,the subjects of Rome and Alexandria observed the re­semblance, rather than the difference of their faith; andeach nation expected the most important benefits froman alliance with their Christian brethren. In theirlonely situation, the ^Ethiopians had almost relapsedinto the savage life. Their vessels, which had traded toCeylon, scarcely presumed to navigate the rivers ofAfrica; the ruins of Axume were deserted, the nationwas scattered in villages, and the emperor (a pompousname) was content, both in peace and war, with themoveable residence of a camp. Conscious of their ownindigence, the Abyssinians, had formed the rational pro­ject of importing the arts and ingenuity of Europe ;* andtheir ambassadors at Rome and Lisbon were instructed • I know not why Assemannus (Bibliot. Orient, torn. 2. p. 384.) should call inquestion these probable missions of Theodora in to Nubia and /Ethiopia. The slightnotices of Abyssinia till the year 1500 are supplied by Elenaudot(p. 336.341.381,382. 405. 443, &c. 452. 456. 463. 475. 480. 511. 525. 559. 564.) from the Copticwriters. The mind of Ludolphus was a perfect blank. 1 Lndolph. Hint. ^Ethiop. lib. 4. c. 5. The most necessary arts are now exercisedby the Jews, and the foreign trade is in the hands of the Armenians. What Gre­gory principally admired and envied was the industry of Europe—artes et opificia. G 2