OCR Output 180 THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. [Book IV. breadth, the first rank of which in dangerous combats notunfrequently tied together their metallic girdles with cords.Their manners were rude. Flesh was frequently devouredraw. The bravest and, if possible, the tallest man was kingof the host. Not unfrequently, after the manner of theCelts and of barbarians generally, the time and place of thecombat were previously arranged with the enemy, and some­times also, before the battle began, an individual opponentwas challenged to single combat. The conflict was ushered inby their insulting the enemy with unseemly gestures, and bya horrible noise—the men raising their battle-shout, and thewomen and children increasing the din by drumming on theleathern covers of the waggons. The Cimbrian foughtbravely—death on the bed of honour was deemed by himthe only death worthy of a free man—but after the victory heindemnified himself by the most savage brutality, and some­times promised beforehand to present to the gods of battlewhatever victory should place in the power of the victor.The effects of the enemy were broken in pieces, the horseswere killed, the prisoners were hanged or preserved only tobe sacrificed to the gods. It was the priestesses—grey-headedwomen in white linen dresses and unshod—who, like Iplii-genia in Scythia, offered these sacrifices, and prophesied thefuture from the streaming blood of the victim whether cap­tive of war or criminal. How much in these customs was theuniversal usage of the northern barbarians, how much wasborrowed from the Celts, and how much was peculiar to theGermans, cannot be ascertained ; only, the practice of havingthe army accompanied and directed not by priests, but bypriestesses, may be pronounced as an undoubtedly Germaniccustom. Thus marched the Cimbri iuto the unknown land—an immense multitude of various origin which had congre­gated round a nucleus of Germanic emigrants from the Bal­tic—not without resemblance to the great bodies of emigrants,that in our own times cross the ocean similarly burdened andsimilarly mingled, and with aims not much less vague; car­rying their lumbering waggon-castle, with the dexteritywhich a long migratory life imparts, over streams and moun­tains; dangerous to more civilized nations like the waveand the hurricane, and like these capricious and unaccount­able, now rapidly advancing, now suddenly pausing, turningaside, or receding. They came and struck like lightning;like lightning they vanished; and unhappily, in the dull