OCR Output 126 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. whole domains assigned to the Latins were confiscated—was the occupied domain-land requisite for the formation oftwelve new, numerous, and compact burgess-communitiesto be discovered? Lastly the declaration of Drusus, thathe would have nothing to do with the execution of his law,was so dreadfully prudent, that it was almost the height ofabsurdity. But the clumsy snare was quite suited for thestupid game which they wished to catch. There was theadditional and perhaps decisive consideration, that Gracchus,on whose personal influence everything depended, was justthen establishing the Carthaginian colony in Africa, and thathis lieutenant in the capital, Marcus Flaccus, played intothe hands of his opponents by his vehemence and incapacity.The "people " accordingly ratified the Livian laws as readilyas it had before ratified the Sempronian. It then, as usual,repaid its latest, by inflicting a gentle blow on its earlier,benefactor, declining to re-elect him when he stood forthe third time as a candidate for the tribunate for the year121. 633; on which occasion, however, there were alleged tohave been unjust proceedings on the part of the tribunepresiding at the election, who had been formerly offended byGracchus. Thus the foundation of his despotism gave waybeneath him. A second blow was inflicted, on him by theconsular elections, which not only proved in a general senseadverse to the democracy, but which placed at the head125. of the state Lucius Opimius, who as praetor in 629 hadconquered Fregellae, one of the most decided and leastscrupulous chiefs of the strict aristocratic party, and a manfirmly resolved to get rid of their dangerous antagonist at'the earliest opportunity.Attack on Such an opportunity soon occurred. On the 10th of De-the [122. cember, 632, Gracchus ceased to be tribune of the people; ontrans- [121. the 1st of January, 633, Opimius entered on his office. Theionization" ^rst attack, as was fair, was directed against the most usefulDownfall of ar"i the most unpopular measure of Gracchus, the restorationGracchus, of Carthage. While the transmarine colonies had hithertobeen only indirectly assailed through the greater allure­ments of the Italian, African hyaenas, it was now alleged,dug up the newly-placed boundary-stones of Carthage, andthe Roman priests, when requested, certified that such signsand portents ought to form an express warning againstrebuilding on a site accursed by the gods. The senatethereby found itself in conscience compelled to have a law