OCR Output B. VII. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 247 as by mere compulsion, (hey now followed their mas­ters against; Dorians. To these were added Æolians;the Methymneans, for instance, who were to furnishshipping, but were exempted from tribute; the Tene-dians, farther, and Ænians, who were tributaries: Butthese, being Æolians, were now compelled to fight a-gainst other Æolians; namely, their own founders, theBœotians, who adhered to the Syracusans. The Pla-tæans. did the same, and were the only Bœotians thatacted against Bœotians upon the justisiable pretext of las­ting enmity. The Rhodians, farther, and Cytherians,attended, though both of Doric descent: The Cythe­rians, truly, who are a Lacedæmonian colony, borearms at this juncture on the Athenian side, against theLacedæmonians under the command of Gylippus andthe Rhodians, Argives by descent, were obliged toturn their arms against the Doric Syracusans; nay, a-gainst the Geloans, a colony of their own, now acting inconcert with the Syracusans. Of the people of the lfleson the coast of Peloponnesus came the Cephalleniansand Zacynthians independent in fact, but throughtheir situation controuled in some measure by the Athe­nians, who are masters of the sea. The Corcyreans,farther, who were not only of Doric, bur, what is more,were even of Corinthian, original, as being a colony of thelatter, and by blood allied to the former, from compul­sion, as they gave out for a colour, though in truthfrom deliberate malice, since opposing the Corinthians,whom they hated, followed the Athenians with an ar­dour inferior to none. The Messenians also, now stiledMeflenians of Naupactus, and those from Pylus, whichwas still held by the Athenians, were brought along tothe war; to whom must be added a small party of Me-garean exiles, who by a sad reverse of fortune now tookpart against the Selinuntians, who were also Megarean.The residue of the confederates were engaged rather up­on free and spontaneous choice. The Argives, for in­stance, not more from obligations of lubsilting treaties, R 4 than