OCR Output 1(56 Book XX, ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. intentions, and how he had-determined to make war with theRomans, slew him, and gave his kingdom to his brother Gotar-zes. He also, in no long time, perished by a plot made againsthim, and Vologases, his brother, succeeded him, who committedtwo of his provinces to two of his brothers, by the same father ithat of thg Medes to the elder, Pacorus, and Armenia to theyounger, Tiridates. ... CHAP IV. How Izates was betrayed by his own subjects, and fought againstby the Arabians : and bow Izates, by the providence of God,was deiivered out of their hands. § i. 'VTOW when the king's brother, Monobazus, and his other-1- kindred, saw how Izates, by his piety to God, wasbecome greatly esteemed by all men, they also had a desire toleave the religion of their country, and to embrace the customsof the Jews; but that act of theirs was discovered by Izates'psubjects. Whereupon the grandees were much displeased, andcould not contain their anger at them ; but had an intention,when they should find a proper opportunity, to inflict a punish-inent upon them. Accordingly, they wrote to A.bia, king of theArabians, and promised him great sums of money, if he wouldmake an expedition against their king ; and .they farther promi­sed him, that, on the first onset, they would desert their king,because they were desirous to punish him, by reason of the ha­tred he had to their religious worship,: then they obliged them­selves, by oaths, to be faithful to each other, and desired that hewould make haste in this design. The king of Arabia compliedwith their desires, and brought a great army into the field,and marched against Izates ; and, in the. beginning of the firstonset, and before they came to a close fight, those grandees, as ifthey had a panic terror upon them, all deserted Izates, as theyhad agreed to do, and, turning their backs upon their enemies,ran away. Yet was not Izates dismayed at this ; but when heunderstood that the grandees had betrayed him, he also retiredinto his camp, and made inquiry into the matter ; and as soon ashe knew who they were that had made this conspiracy with theking of Arabia, he cut oft0 those that were found guilty ; andrenewing the fight on the next day, he slew the greatest part ofhis enemies, and forced all the rest to betake themselves toflight. He also pursued their king, and drove him into a for­tress called Arsamus, and, following on the siege vigorously, he.took that fortress, i And, when he had plundered it of all the.prey that was in it, which was not small, , he returned to Adia- 'i- . bene; I