OCR Output LAODICEIA. 123 LAPATHUS. seats still perfectly horizontal, though merely laidupon the gravel), are well deserving of notice. Otherbeddings, also, on the top of the hill, are full ofinterest; and on the east the line of the ancientwall may be distinctly traced, with the remains of agateway; there is also a street within and withouttie town, Banked by the ruins of a colonnade andnumerous pedestals, leading to a confused heap offallen ruins on the brow of the hill, about 200 yardsoutside the walls. North of the town, towards theLycos, are many sarcophagi, with their covers lyingnear them, partly imbedded in the ground, and allbaring been long since rified. u Amongst other interesting objects are the remainsof an aqueduct, commencing near the summit of altw hill to the south, whence it is carried on archesof small square stones to the edge of the hill. Thewater must have been much charged with calcareousmatter, as several of the arches are covered with athick incrustation. From this hill the aqueductcrossed a valley before it reached the town, but,instead of being carried over it on lofty arches, aswas the usual practice of the Romans, the waterwas conveyed down the hill in stone barrel-pipes;some of these also are much incrusted, and someompletely choked up. It traversed ■ the plain inpipes of the same kind ; and I was enabled to tracetheai the whole way, quite up to its former level in the town. The aqueduct appears to have been overthrown by an earthquake, as the remainingarches lean bodily oa one side, without being muchbroken "The stadium, which is in a good state of pre­servation, is near the southern extremity of the city.The seats, almost perfect, are arranged along twosides of a narrow valley, which appears to have beentaken advantage of for this purpose, and to havebeen closed up at both ends. Towards the west areconsiderable remains of a subterranean passage, bywbirh chariots arid horses were admitted into thearena, with a long inscription over the entrance..... The whole area of the ancient city is coveredwith ruined buildings, and I could distinguish thesites of several temples, with the bases of the columns still in situ The ruias bear the stamp of Kotnan extravagance and luxury, rather than ofthe stem and massive solidity of the Greeks. Straboattributes the celebrity of the place to the fertilityof the soil and the wealth of some of its inhabitants:amongst whom Hiero, having adorned the city withmany beautiful buildings, bequeathed to it morethan 2000 talents at his death." (Comp. Fellows,Journal icritten in Aria Minor, p. 280, foil.;Leake, Asia Minor, p. 251, foil.) [L. S.j LAODICEIA AD LIBANUM (AaoSlxua i,vplt \iii-.y). mentioned by Strabo (xvi. p. 755) asthe eemmencement of the Marsyas Campus, whichmended along the west side of the Orontes, near itsMmre. [Marstas Campus.] It is called CabiosaLt-alieeia by Ptolemy (KaSiWa Aaoo\'«eia, v. 15),•M gives its name to a district (AooSucnrr}), inwhich he places two other towns, Paradisus (Tlapa-W«t) and Jabruda ('ItfoVouJa). Pliny (v. 23),aTimj other people of Syria, reckons " ad orientemI*<hceno». qui ad Libannm cognominantur." [G.W.] LAODICEIA AD MARE, a city of Syria, south•f Hejucleia [VoL I. p. 1050], described by Strabo(m pp. 751, 752) as admirably built, with an ex­cellent harbour, surrounded by a rich country spe­cially fruitful in vines, the wine of which furnishedas chief supply to Alexandria. The vineyards were planted on the sides of gently-sloping hills, whichwere cultivated almost to their summits, and ex­tended far to the cast, nearly to Apatneia. Strabomentions that Dolabella, when he fled to this citybefore Cassius, distressed it greatly, and that, beingbesieged there until his death, he destroyed manyparts of the city with him, a. d. 43. [Diet of Bioij.Vol. I. p. 1059.] It was built by Seleucus Nicator,and named after his mother. It was furnished withan aqueduct by Herod the Great (Joseph. />'.,/. i.:! 1.§ 11), a large fragment of which is still to be seen.(Shaw, Travels, p. 262.) The modern city is named Ixtdikiyeh, and stillexhibits faint traces of its former importance, not­withstanding the frequent earthquakes with whichit has been visited. Irby and Mangles noticed that"the Marina is built upon foundations of ancientcolumns," and " there are in the town, an old gate­way and other antiquities," as also sarcophagi andsepulchral caves in the neighbourhood. {Travels,p. 223.) This gateway has been more fully de­scribed by Shaw ((. c ) and Pocockc, as " a remark­able triumphal arch, at the SE. corner of the town,almost entire: it is built with four entrances, likethe Forum Jani at Rome. It is conjectured that thisarch was built in honour of Lucius Verus, or of Sep-timius Severus." {Description of the East, vol. ii.p. 197.) Shaw noticed several fragments of Greekand Latin inscriptions,dispersed all over the ruins, butentirely defaced. Pococke states that it was a veryinconsiderable place till within fifty years of his visit,when it opened a tobacco trade with Damietta, andit has now an enormous traffic in that article, forwhich it is far more celebrated than ever it wasfor its wine. The port is half an hour distant fromthe town, very small, but better sheltered than anyon the coast. Shaw noticed, a furlong to the westof the town, "the ruins of a beautiful cothon, infigure like an amphitheatre, and capacious enoughto receive the whole British navy. The mouth ofit opens to the westward, and is about 40 feetwide." [G.W.] COIN OF LAODICEIA AD MARE. LAODICEIA (AooSiMia). 1. A town in Media,founded by Seleucus Nicator, along with the twoother Hellenic cities of Apameia and Heracleia.(Strab. xi. p. 524; Steph. B. ». r.) Pliny (vi. 29)describes it as being in the extreme limits of Media,and founded by Antiochus. The site has not yetbeen identified. (Ritter, Erdhmde, vol. viii. p. 599.) 2. A town which Pliny (vi. 30) places along withSeleuceia and Artemita in Mesopotamia, [E. B. J.] LAPATHUS, a fortress near Mount Olympus.[Ascubis.] LAPATHUS, LAPETHUS (Ad>afloi, Strab.xiv. p. 682; AaVn0os, Ptol. v. 14. § 4; Plin. v. 31;Aijwnflis, Scyl. p. 41; AdwiSoj, Hierocl.: Eth. A*.T-nBiis, Aaw7)0ios : iMpitlm, Lapla),ix town of Cyprus,the foundation of which was assigned to the Phoeni­cians (Steph. B. s. v.), and which, according to Xonnus