OCR Output 388 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. wounded, as it was supposed, with an arrow, soughtXXI' protection among the Lancearii and the Mattiarii,who still maintained their ground with some appear­ance of order and firmness. His faithful generals,Trajan and Victor, who perceived his danger, loudlyexclaimed, that all was lost, unless the person of theemperor could be saved. Some troops, animated bytheir exhortation, advanced to his relief: they foundonly a bloody spot, covered with a heap of brokenarms and mangled bodies, without being able to dis­cover their unfortunate prince, either among theliving or the dead. Their search could not indeedbe successful, if there is any truth in the circumstanceswith which some historians have related the death ofDeath of the emperor. By the care of his attendants, Valensror VafcnV. was removed from tne field of battle to a neighbour­ing cottage, where they attempted to dress his wound,and to provide for his future safety. But this hum­ble retreat was instantly surrounded by the enemy;they tried to force the door; they were provoked bya discharge of arrows from the roof, till at length,impatient of delay, they set fire to a pile of dry fa­gots, and consumed the cottage with the Roman em­peror and his train. Valens perished in the flames;and a youth, who dropt from the window, aloneescaped, to attest the melancholy tale, and to informthe Goths of the inestimable prize which they hadlost by their own rashness. A great number of braveand distinguished officers perished in the battle ofHadrianople, which equalled, in the actual loss, andfar surpassed, in the fatal consequences, the misfor­tune which Rome had formerly sustained in the fieldsof Cannae*. Two master-generals of the cavalry andinfantry, two great officers of the palace, and thirty- * Nec ulla, annalibus, prater Cannensem pugnam ita ad internecionem reslegitur gesta. Ammian. xxxt. 13. According to the grave Polybius, no morethan 370 horse, and 3,000 foot, escaped from the field of Cannae: 10,000 weremade prisoners; and the number of the slain amounted to 5,630 horse, and