OCR Output XAXTIIUS. 1.13.1 XIPHOXIUS PORTUS. •hick U much too great. (Camp. Slfph. B. s. r.;ItoL t. 3. § 5; Mela, i. 15; Polyb. xxvi. 7.) Thisfitnooi city was twice destroyed, on each of whichiccaaioos iu inhabitants defended themselves withmdaunted valour. The first catastrophe befell the itv in the reign of Cjrus, when Harpagus besiegedt with a Persian army. On that occasion the Xan-hians buried themselves, with all they possessed,inder the ruins of their city. (Herod, i. 176.) AfterLis event the city must have been rebuilt; forluring the Roman civil wars consequent upon thenurder of Caesar, Xanthus was invested by thetimy of Brutus, as its inhabitants refused to openbeir gates to him. Brutus, after a desperate strug­gle, took the city by assault. The Xanthians con-inned the fight in the streets, and perished withheir wives and children in the flames, rather thannbrnit to the Romans. (Dion Cass, xlvii. 34;Ippian, B. C. iv. 18, foil.) After this catastrophe,lie city never recovered. The chief buildings atiinthus were temples of Sarpedon (Appian, (. a),od of the Lycian Apollo. (l>iod. v. 77.) At auUnce of GO stadia down the river and 10 stadiarom its mouth, there was a sanctuary of Letoa the bank of the Xanthus. (Strab. /. c.) Theito of Xanthus and its magnificent ruins wereirtt discovered and described by Sir C. Fellows inlis Excursion in Asia Minor, p. 225, foil. (comp.lis Lycia. p. 164, foil.) These ruins stand near theillage of Koonik, and consist of temples, tombs,riumphal arches, walls, and a theatre. The site,ays Sir Charles, is extremely romantic, uponfautiful hills, some crowned with rocks, othersising perpendicularly from the river. The city doesm appear to have been very large, but its remainshow that it was highly ornamented, particularlyhe tombs. The architecture and sculptures ot' the'Uce, of which many specimens are in an excellenttale of preservation, and the inscriptions in a pecu-tar alphabet, have opened up a page in the historyt Asia Minor previously qnite unknown. The en-ravings in Fellows' works furnish a clear idea ofhe high perfection which the arts must have at-aioed at Xanthus. (See also Spratt and Forbes,'rarels its Lycia, i. p. 5, and ii., which contains anxcvllrnt plan of the Bite and remains of Xanthus;'.. Braun, IHe Marmorwerkc von Xanihos in I^ykia,Ihein. Mus. Neue Folpe, vol. iii. p. 481, folL) A large collection of marbles, chiefly sepulchral,iM-overed at Xanthus by Sir C. Fellows, androught to England in 1842 and 1843, has beenminted in the British Museum. Of these a fullccount is given in the Supplement to the Pennyyclopaedin, vol. ii. p. 71.1, toll. [L. S.] XANTHUS (HdViot), an important river in thei. of Lycia, which is mentioned even in HomerIL iu 877, T. 479), and which, according to Straboxir. p. 665), was anciently called Sirbes, that is in'noeviician and Arabic "reddish yellow," so thatM Greek name Xanthus is only a translation of theemitic Sirbes or Zirba. The Xanthus has itsnireea in Mount Taurus, on the frontiers betweenvna and Pisidia, and flows as a navigable river inSW. direction through an extensive plain (EaVOevttiop, Herod, i. 17e>J, having Mount Bragus on thei. and Maaskytes on the E., towards the sea, intohirh it discharges itself about 70 stadia S. of thetv of Xanthus. and a little to the NW. of I'inara.Hood. L e.; PtoL v. 3. § 2: Dion. Per. 848; Ov.ttt. ix. 645; Mela, i. 15; Plin. v. 28.) Now theuJtm or Essaudt. (Fellows, Lycia, pp. 123, 278.) Respecting Xanthns as a name of the Trojan riverScamander, see Scamaxdkr. [L. S-] XANTHUS. [Buthrotux.] XATHR1 (EdSpoi, Arrian, Anab. vi. 15), a tribeof free Indians mentioned by Arrian as dwelling alongthe banks of the Hydraotes (/ratvfft) in the Panjdb.There can be little doubt that they derive theirname from the Indian caste of the Kshatriyas. [V.J XEXAGORAE INSULAE (H«ko.7o>ou iojo-o<),according to Pliny (v. 35), a group of eight smallislands off the coast of Lycia, which the St ad i asm us(§ 218) states were situated 60 stadia to the eastof Patara. They are commonly identified with a groupof islands in the bay of Kalamaki. [L. S.J XENUTA, a small place in the NE. part ofSogdiana, noticed by Curtius (viii. 2. § 14) ; perhapsthe present Crtifjpa. L^-] XEROGYl'SUS(Er)p*yi4or, AnnaComn. vii. 11,p. 378, Bonn), a small river in the SE. of Thrace,which falls into the Propomis, not far from Perin-thus. In some maps it is called the Erginus, uponthe authority of Mela (ii. 2). [J. R.J XERXE'NE (Evil**), Strab. xi. p. 528), a dis­trict on the Euphrates, in the NW. part of Arme­nia, more properly, however, belonging to Cappa-docia. It is called Derxcne by Pliny (v. 24. s. 20),and this perhaps is the more correct name. (Cf.Ritter, Erdlc x. p. 769.) [T. H. D.] XIME'NE (Si/irjrrf), a district in the most southernpart of Pontus, on the Halys, and near the frontiersof Cappadocia, was celebrated for its salt-works.(Strab. xii. p. 561.) [L. S.J XION (Bwr, Scylax, p. 53), a river on the W.coast of Libra Interior. [T. H. D.] Xll'HONUJS PORTUS (Ei«W«ioi Ai^v, Scyl.p. 4: Bay of Augusta'), a spacious harbour onthe E. coast of Sicily, between Catana and Syra­cuse. It is remarkablo that this, though one of thelargest and most important natural harbours on thecoasts of Sicily, is rarely mentioned by ancient au­thors. Scylax, indeed, is the only writer who haspreserved to us its name as that of a port. Strabospeaks of the Xiphonian Promontory (to ttji Eupw-Woi axpwTT/pior, vi. p. 267). by which he evidentlymeans the projecting headland near its entrance, nowcalled the Capo di Santa Croee. Diodorus alsomentions that the Carthaginian fleet, in n. r. 263touched at Xiphonia on its way to Syracuse (firt^, Ei$t»'Iw, xxiii. 4. p. 502). None of theseauthors allude to the existence of a town of thisname, and it is probably a mistake of Stephanus ofByzantium, who speaks of Xiphonia as a city(». v.). The harbour or bay of Augusta is a spa­cious gulf, considerably larger than the Great Har­bour of Syracuse, and extending from the Capo diStmta Croce to the low peninsula or promontory ofMagniii (the ancient Thapsus). But it is probablethat the port designated by Scylax was a muchsmaller one, close to the modern city of A w/usta,which occupies a low peninsular point or tongue ofland that projects from near the N. extremity ofthe bay, and strongly resembles the pxition of theisland of Ortypia, at Syracuse, except that it is notquite separated from the mainland. It is very sin­gular that so remarkable and advantageous a situa­tion should not have been taken advantage of by theGreek coloaists in Sicily ; but we have no trace ofany ancient town on the spot, unless it were the siteof the ancient Megara. [Mkoara.J The moderntown of Augusta, or Agosta, was founded in the 13theenturyby Frederic 11. [K. H.B.J