OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL 4S2 Its gradualincrease. Their reli­gion bettersuited to de­fence than toconquest. was equal to their detestation of foreign religions. The current ofzeal and devotion, as it was contracted into a narrow channel, ranwith the strength, and sometimes with the fury, of a torrent. This inflexible perseverance, which appeared so odious or so ri­diculous to the ancient world, assumes a more awful character,since Providence has deigned to reveal to us the mysterious his­tory of the chosen people. But the devout and even scrupulousattachment to the Mosaic religion, so conspicuous among the Jewswho lived under the second temple, becomes still more surprising,if it is compared with the stubborn incredulity of their forefathers.When the law was given in thunder from Mount Sinai; when thetides of the ocean, and the course of the planets were suspendedfor the convenience of the Israelites; and when temporal rewardsand punishments were the immediate consequences of their pietyor disobedience, they perpetually relapsed into rebellion against thevisible majesty of their Divine King, placed the idols of the nationsin the sanctuary of Jehovah, and imitated every fantastic ceremonythat was practised in the tents of the Arabs, or in the cities ofPhœnicia 9. As the protection of Heaven was deservedly withdrawnfrom the ungrateful race, their faith acquired a proportionable de­gree of vigour and purity. The contemporaries of Moses andJoshua had beheld with careless indifference the most amazingmiracles. Under the pressure of every calamity, the belief of thosemiracles has preserved the Jews of a later period from the universalcontagion of idolatry; and in contradiction to every known prin­ciple of the human mind, that singular people seems to have yieldeda stronger and more ready assent to the traditions of their remoteancestors, than to the evidence of their own fenses. The Jewish religion was admirably fitted for defence, but it wa&never designed for conquest; and it seems probable that the num­ber of proselytes was never much superior to that of apostates. Thedivine promises were originally made, and the distinguishing rite of circumcision