OCR Output 458 [book xm. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. other should treat with him first, and gainassistance from him. And this he did out ofthe fear he had, lest Jonathan should remem­ber how ill Demetrius had formerly treatedhim; and should join with him in this waragainst him. He therefore gave orders thatJonathan should be allowed to raise an army,and should get armour made, and should re­ceive back those hostages of the Jewish na­tion whom Bacchides had shut up in thecitadel of Jerusalem. When this good for­tune had befallen Jonathan, by the concessionof Demetrius, he came to Jerusalem, andread the king's letter, in the audience of thepeople, and of those that kept the citadel:those wicked men and deserters who werein the citadel, were therefore greatly afraid,upon the king's permission to Jonathan toraise an army, and to receive back the hos­tages. So he delivered every one of themto their own parents. And thus did Jonathanmake his abode at Jerusalem: renewing thecity to a better state, and reforming thebuildings as he pleased. For he gave ordersthat the walls of the city should be rebuiltwith square stones; that it might be moresecure from their enemies. And when thosethat kept the garrisons that were in Judeasaw this, they all left them, and fled to An-tioch; excepting those that were in the cityBethsura, and those that were in the citadelof Jerusalem. For the greater part of theseconsisted of the wicked Jews and deserters;and on that account these did not deliver uptheir garrisons. When Alexander knew what promises De­metrius had made Jonathan, and withal knewhis courage, and what great things he had * 1 Mace. x. 15. t Since Jonathan did not put on the pontifical robestill seven or eight years after the death of his brotherJudas, or not till the feast of tabernacles in the 160th ofthe SeleucidsB, 1 Mace. x. 21. Petitus's emendationseems here to deserve consideration: who instead of"After four years, since the death of his brother Judas:"would have us read: "And therefore after eight years,since the death of his brother Judas." This would tole­rably well agree with the date in the Maccabees, and withJosephus's own exact chronology, at the end of the XXthbook of these Antiquities: which the present text cannotbe made to do. J From the time of the return from the Babylonishcaptivity, the office of high-priest had been in the familyof Josodek, and, in a lineal descent, was transmitteddown to Onias, the third of that name. He was sup- done when he fought the Macedonians; andbesides what hardships he had undergone bythe means of Demetrius, and of Bacchides,the general of Demetrius's army; he told hisfriends, that he could not at present find anyone that might afford him better assistancethan Jonathan; who was both courageousagainst his enemies, and had a particular ha­tred against Demetrius, as having both suf­fered many hard things from him, and actedmany hard things against him. If thereforethey were of opinion that they should makehim their friend against Demetrius, it wasmore for their advantage to invite him to as­sist them now, than at another time.* Itbeing therefore determined by him and hisfriends to send to Jonathan, he wrote to himthis epistle:— "King Alexander, to his brother Jonathan,sendeth greeting. We have long ago heardof thy courage and fidelity: and for that rea­son have sent to thee to make with thee aleague of friendship, and of mutual assist­ance. I therefore do ordain thee this daythe high-priest of the Jews; and appoint thatthou shall be called my friend. I have alsosent thee, as presents, a purple robe, and agolden crown: and desire that now thou artby me honoured, thou wilt in like mannerrespect me also." When Jonathan had received this letter,he fput on the pontifical robe, at the feast oftabernacles; four years after the death of hisbrother Judas. For at that time no high-priest had been made.J So he raised greatforces, and had abundance of armour gotready. This greatly grieved Demetrius,when he heard of it; and made him blame planted by Jason his brother, as Jason was by his brotherMenelaus, and after the death of Menelaus, Alcimus, whowas of a different family, was put into the office by thecommand of the king of Syria. Whether the Asmoneanswere of the race of Josedek, or not, it is no where said:but it is certain that they were of the course of Joarib,(1 Mace. ii. 1,) which was the first class of the sons ofAaron; and therefore, upon the failure of the formerpontifical family, they had the best right to succeed.With this right it was, that Jonathan took the office; andin his family it became settled, and continued for severaldescents, until the time of Herod, who, from an office ofinheritance, changed it into that of arbitrary will and plea­sure. Whoever had the power after him, put the high-priests in or out, as they thought fit, till at length theoffice was extinguished by the destruction of the templeby the Romans. Prideaux's Connection, an. 253. B. i