OCR Output SILVER STATUES. 67 the case informer times, so to form some apology for our own age;C. Gracchus possessed Delphian vessels, which cost 5,000 sestercesthe pound; and Lucius Cassius had two cups, engraven by theartist Mentor, which cost 100,000 sesterces; but he confessed thathe was ashamed ever to use them. It is also well known that hehad vessels which cost 600,000 sesterces the pound. It was theconquest of Asia which introduced luxury into Italy; for we aretold, that Lucius Scipio brought over at his triumph 1,450 lbs.weight of chased silver, besides 1,500 lbs. weight of gold vessels;this was in the 565th year since the foundation of the city. Thissame Asia, when it was presented to us as a gift, inflicted stillgreater injury upon our morals, and the inheritance, of which wecame into possession at the death of king Attalus, was still of lessuse than that victory. For then all sense of shame was entirelydestroyed by the eagerness for purchasing the articles at the sale ofthe royal effects; this was in the 662d year of the city; so thatin the space of fifty-seven years, the people had learned not onlyto admire, but even to covet foreign wealth. And this feeling re­ceived a prodigious impulse by the conquest of Achaia, duringwhich interval, i. e. in the 608th year of the city, that nothingmight be wanting, there was a great influx of statues andpictures. Luxury was also much increased by the reduction ofCarthage; so that it seemed as if the fates conspired to give usboth the means and the will to pursue all kinds of vice. But in­deed some of our ancestors had endeavoured to gain credit by thiskind of conduct. C. Marius, after the victory over the Cimbri,is said to have drunk out of a great tankard, in order that hemight be like father Bacchus; and this is the man who was ori­ginally a ploughman at Arpinum, and was afterwards taken outof the ranks and made a general! 54. OF SILVER STATUES. It is an erroneous opinion that silver was first used for statuesin the time of the late Emperor Augustus, by way of paying courtto him. For we find, that in the triumph of Pompey the Great,there was a silver statue of Pharnaces sent to Rome, the first ofthat name who reigned in Pontus, and of Mithridates, the son ofEupator; there were likewise chariots, both of gold and of silver.In some cases, silver has come after gold, as in the ankle-rings,worn by the women of the lower orders, which they preferred, being f3