OCR Output IT PREFACE. -» have carefully marked the secondary evidence, on whose faitha passage or a fact were reduced to depend. I shall soon revisit the banks of the lake of Lausanne, acountry which I have known and loved from my early youth.Under a mild government, amidst a beauteous landscape, ina life of leisure and independence, and among a people ofeasy and elegant manners, I have enjoyed, and may againhope to enjoy, the varied pleasures or retirement and society.But I shall ever glory in the name and character of an Eng­lishman: I am proud of my birth in a free and enlightenedcountry; and the approbation of that country is the best andmost honourable reward of my labours. Were I ambitiousof any other patron than the public, I would inscribe thiswork to a Statesman, who, in a long, a stormy, and at lengthan unfortunate administration, had many political opponents,almost without a personal enemy; who has retained, in hisfall from power,many faithful and disinterested friends; andwho, under the pressure of severe infirmity, enjoys the livelyvigour of his mind, and the felicity of his incomparable tem­per. Lord North will permit me to express the feelings offriendship in the language of truth: but even truth andfriendship should be silent, if he still dispensed the favoursof the crown. . . In a remote solitude, vanity may still whisper in my ear,that my readers, perhaps, may inquire, whether, in the con­clusion of the present work, I am now taking an everlastingfarewell. They shall hear all that I know myself, all that Icould reveal to the most intimate friend. The motives ofaction or silence are now equally balanced; nor can 1 pro­nounce in my most secret thoughts on which side the scalewill preponderate. I cannot dissemble that six ample quartosmust have tried, and may have exhausted, the indulgence ofthe Public; that in the repetition of similar attempts, a suc­cessful author has much more to lose, than he cart hope togain; that I am now descending into the vale of years; andthat the most respectable of my countrymen, the men whomI aspire to imitate, have resigned the pen of history aboutthe same period of their lives. Yet I consider that the an­nals of ancient and modern times may afford many rich andinteresting subjects; that I am still possessed of health andleisure; that by the practice of writing, some skill and faci­lity must be acquired; and that, in the ardent pursuit of