OCR Output C. VI.] LUCILIUS BASSTJS. 317 what was walled in was itself a very rocky hill, elevated to avery great height, which circumstance alone made it veryhard to be subdued. It was also so contrived by nature, thatit could not be easily ascended; for it is, as it were, ditchedabout with such valleys on all sides, and to such a depth, thatthe eye cannot reach their bottoms, and such as are not easilyto be passed over, and even such as it is impossible to fillup with earth. For that valley which cuts it on the westextends to three-score furlongs, and did not end till it cameto the lake Asphaltitis; on the same side it was also thatMacherus had the tallest top of its hill elevated above therest. But then, for the valleys that lay on the north andsouth sides, although they be not so large as that already de­scribed, yet is it, in like manner, an impracticable thing tothink of getting over them; and for the valley that lies onthe east side, its depth is found to be not less than a hundredcubits. It extends as far as a mountain that lies over againstMacherus, with which it is bounded. 2. Now when Alexander [Janneus,] the king of the Jews,observed the nature of this place, he was the first who builta citadel here, which afterwards was demolished by Gabiniuswhen he made war against Aristobulus. But when Herodcame to be king, he thought the place to be worthy of thoutmost regard, and of being built upon in the firmest manner,and this especially because it lay so near to Arabia; for itis seated in a convenient place on that account, and hath aprospect toward that country: he, therefore, surrounded alarge space of ground with walls and towers, and built a citythere, out of which city there was a way that led up to thovery citadel itself on the top of the mountain: nay, morethan this, he built a wall round that top of the hill, anderected towers at the corners of a hundred and sixty cubitshigh ; in the middle of which place he built a palace after amagnificent manner, wherein were large and beautiful edifices.He also made a great many reservoirs for reception of water,that there might be plenty of it ready for all uses, and thosein the properest places that were afforded him there. Thusdid he, as it were, contend with the nature of the place, 27*