OCR Output B.I.] AGAINST APION. 395 them as occasion should require, and would easily reduce thecountry under their dominion. These shepherds were allvery glad of this message, and came away with alacrityaltogether, being in number two hundred thousand men;and in a little time they came to Avaris. And now Ameno-phis, the king of Egypt, upon his being informed of theirinvasion, was in great confusion, as calling to mind whatAmenophis, the son of Papis, had foretold him; and, in thefirst place, he assembled the multitude of the Egyptians, andtook counsel with their leaders, and sent for their sacredanimals to him, especially for those that were principallyworshipped in their temples, and gave a particular charge tothe priests distinctly, that they should hide the images oftheir gods with the utmost care. He also sent his son Sethos,who was also named Harnesses, from his father, Rhampses,being but five years old, to a friend of his. He then passedon with the rest of the Egyptians, being three hundredthousand of the most warlike of them, against the enemy,who met them. Yet did he not join battle with them; butthinking that would be to fight against the gods, he returnedback, and came to Memphis, where he took Apis and theother sacred animals which he had sent for to him, and pre­sently marched into Ethiopia, together with his whole armyand multitude of Egyptians; for the king of Ethiopia wasunder an obligation to him; on which account he receivedhim, and took care of all the multitude that was with him,while the country supplied all that was necessary for the foodof the men. He also allotted cities and villages for thisexile, that was to be from its beginning during those fatallydetermined thirteen years. Moreover, he pitched a campfor his Ethiopian army as a guard to king Amenophis, uponthe borders of Egypt. And this was the state of things inEthiopia. But for the people of Jerusalem, when they camedown together with the polluted Egyptians, they treated themen in such a barbarous manner, that those who saw howthey subdued the forementioned country, and the horridwickedness they were guilty of, thought it a most dreadfulthing; for they did not only set the cities and villages on fire,