OCR Output 252 [book VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. enemy will naturally suppose that he hathanother army with him." So David waspleased with this advice, and resolved totarry at Mahanaim. And as he sent hisfriends and commanders to the battle, hedesired them to shew all possible alacrity andfidelity, and to bear in mind what advantagesthey had received from him; which thoughthey had not been very great, yet had theynot been quite inconsiderable; and he beggedof them to spare the young man Absalom,lest some mischief should befall himself, ifhe should be killed.* And thus did lie sendout his army to the battle, and wished themvictory therein. Then did Joab put his army in array overagainst the enemy, in the great plain, wherehe had a wood behind him. Absalom alsobrought his army into the field to oppose him.Upon the joining of the battle both sides per­formed great actions; the one side exposingthemselves to the greatest hazards and usingtheir utmost alacrity, that David might re­cover his kingdom; and the other being noway deficient either in doing or suffering,that Absalom might not be deprived of thatkingdom, and to be brought to punishmentby his father for his impudent attempt againsthim. Those also that were the most nu­merous were solicitous that they might notbe conquered by those few that were withJoab, and with the other commanders, be­cause that would be the greatest disgrace tothem; while David's soldiers strove greatlyto overcome so many ten thousands as theenemy had with them. Now David's men were conquerors, as superior in strength andskill in war. So they followed the others asthey fled away through the forests and valleys;and some they took prisoners, and many theyslew; and more in the flight than in thebattle ;f for there fell about twenty thousandthat day. But all David's men ran violentlyupon Absalom; for he was easily known byhis beauty and stature. He was himself alsoafraid lest his enemies should seize him. Sohe got upon the king's mule and fled. Butas he was carried along with violence, and agreat motion, as he being himself light, heentangled his hair in the large spreadingbough of a knotty tree, and there he hungafter a surprising manner. And as for thebeast, it went on swiftly; as if his master hadbeen still upon his back. But he hanging inthe air upon the boughs was left to his ene­mies. Now when one of David's soldiers sawthis, he informed Joab of it; and when thegeneral said, that if he had shot at and killedAbsalom, he would have given him fiftyshekels, he replied, " I would not have killedmy master's son if thou wouldest have givenme a thousand shekels; especially when hedesired that the young man might be sparedin the hearing of us all." But Joab madehim shew him where it was that he saw Ab­salom hang. Whereupon he shot him to theheart, and slew him,J and Joab's armour-bearers stood round about the tree, andpulled down his dead body, and cast it into agreat chasm that was out of sight, and laid aheap of stones|| upon him till the cavity wasfilled up; and had the appearance of a grave. * 2 Sam. xviii. 5. t The expression in the text is, The wood devouredmore people that day than the sword devoured, 2 Sam.,xviii. 8. which some think was occasioned by their fallinginto pits, pressing one another to death in strait places,creeping into lurking holes, and there being starved todeath, or otherwise devoured by wild beasts, which metthem in their flight. But the most easy and simplemeaning of the passage is, that there were more slain inthe wood than in the field of battle. The field of battlewas a plain, with a wood contiguous to it; and therefore,when Absalom's army was put to the rout, and betookthemselves to the wood for refuge, their pursuers made agreater slaughter of them there, than they otherwisewould have done, because they could not run away sofast in the wood, as they might have done in the openfield. Patrick's Commentary. B. % 2 Sam. xviii. 14. II In the description of the Holy Land, some geogra­phers tell us, that this heap of stones remained even to their days, and that all travellers, as they passed by it,were wont to throw a stone to add to the heap, in detesta­tion of his rebellion against his father. For though it be­came a custom among the Greeks, to raise a heap of stonesin the place where any great person was interred, as amonument of honour and respect; yet it is plain, thatnone of David's army intended any honour to Absalom'smemory in accumulating stones upon him; nor can wethink, that David himself, though too fond of this rebelson, made any alteration afterwards in the form of hisburial, for fear of enraging the people against him. Some,however, are of a quite contrary opinion, viz. that David,who lamented him with such excess, removed him fromthis pit, in order to have him laid in the sepulchre be­longing to the kings, or perhaps somewhere about theplace where the monument which goes under his name,and even to this day is shewn to travellers, was dug in arock. It is a litUe chamber wrought with a chisel, out ofone piece of rock, which stands at some distance from therest of the mountain, and is a square of eight paces from