OCR Output 188 THE DECLINE AND FALL •who is distinguished among a crowd of saints by the epithet of alms-giver:{l) andthe revenues of the church, with a treasure of three hundred thousand pounds,were restored to the true proprietors, the poor of every country and every deno­mination. But Egypt itself, the only province which had been exempt, since thetimes of Diocletian, from foreign and domestic war, was again subdued by the suc­cessors of Cyrus. Pelusium, the key of that impervious country, was surprisedby the cavalry of the Persians: they passed, with impunity, the innumerable chan­nels of the Delta, and explored the long valley of the Nile, from the pyramidsof Memphis to the confines of Ethiopia. Alexandria might have been relievedby a naval force, but the archbishop and the prefect embarked for Cyprus; andChosroes entered the second city ot the empire, which still preserved a wealthyremnant of industry and commerce. His western trophy was erected, not on thewalls of Carthage,(2) but in the neighbourhood of Tripoli: the Greek colonies ofCyrene were finally extirpated; and the conqueror, treading in the footsteps of Alex­ander, returned in triumph through the sands of the Lybian desert. In the firstcampaign, another army advanced from the Euphrates to the Thracian Bosphorus;Chalcedon surrendered after a long siege, and a Persian camp was maintained aboveten years in the presence of Constantinople. The sea-coast of Pontus, the city ofAncyra, and the isle of Rhodes, are enumerated among the last conquests of thegreat king; and if Chosroes had possessed any maritime power, his boundless am­bition would have spread slavery and desolation over the provinces of Europe. From the long disputed banks of the Tigris and Euphrates, the reign of thegrandson of Nushirvan was suddenly extended to the Hellespont and the Nile, theancient limits of the Persian monarchy. But the provinces, which had been fa­shioned by the habits of six hundred years to the virtues and vices of the Romangovernment, supported with reluctance the yoke of the barbarians. The idea ofa republic was kept alive by the institutions, or at least by the writings, of theGreeks and Romans, and the subjects of Heraclius had been educated to pronouncethe words of liberty and law. But it has always been the pride and policy of ori­ental princes, to display the titles and attributes of their omnipotence; to upbraida nation of slaves with their true name and abject condition, and to enforce, bycruel and insolent threats, the rigour of their absolute commands. The Christiansof the east were scandalized by the worship of fire, and the impious doctrine ofthe two principles; the Magi were not less intolerant than the bishops, and themartyrdom of some native Persians, who had deserted the religion *of Zoroaster,(3)was conceived to be the prelude of a fierce and general persecution. By the op­pressive laws of Justinian, the adversaries of the church were made the enemiesof the state; the alliance of the Jews, Nestoriansi and Jacobites, had contributedto the success of Chosroes, and his partial favour to the sectaries provoked thehatred and fears of the catholic clergy. Conscious of their fear and hatred, thePersian conqueror governed his new subjects with an iron sceptre; and as if hesuspected the stability of his dominions, he exhausted their wealth by exorbitanttributes and licentious rapine, despoiled or demolished the temples of the east,and transported to his hereditary realms the gold, the silver, the precious marbles,the arts, and the artists of the Asiatic cities. In the obscure picture of the cala­mities of the empire,(4) it is not easy to discern the figure of Chosroes himself, toseparate his actions from those of his lieutenants, or to ascertain his personal me­rit in the general blaze of glory and magnificence. He enjoyed with ostentationthe fruits of victory', and frequently retired from the hardships of war to the luxu­ry of the palace. But in the space of twenty-four years, he was deterred by su­perstition or resentment from approaching the gates of Ctesiphon: and his favour­ite residence of Artemita, or Dastagerd, was situate beyond the Tigris, aboutsixty miles to the north of the capital. (5) The adjacent pastures were coveredwith flocks and herds: the paradise or park was replenished with pheasants, pea- (1) The lire of this worthy saint is composed by Leontius.a coremporary bishop; and I find in Baroniiif.(Annal. Eccles. A. D. 610. No. 10, &c.) and Fleury, (torn. viii. p. 235—242.) sufficient extracts of this edifyingwork, (2) The error of Baronius, and many others, who have carried the arms of Chosroes to Carthage, insteadof Chalcedon, is founded on the uear resemblance of the Greek words KaKmSovx and K»px>iJev*, in thetext of Theophanes, && which have been sometimes confounded by transcribers and sometimes by critics. (3) The genuine acts of St. Anastatius are published in those of the seventh general council, from whenceBaronius (Annal. Eccles. A. D. 614.626,627.) and Butler (Lives of the Saints, vol. i. p. 242—248.) have takentheir accounts. The holy martyr deserted from the Persian to -the notnan army, became a monk at Jerusa­lem, and insulted the worship of the Map, which was then established at Cxsarea in Palestine. (4) Abulpharagius, Dynast, p. 99. Elmacin, Hist. Saracen, p. 14. (5) D'Anville, Mem. de l'Academie des Inscriptions, torn, xxxit. p. 568—571. t