OCR Output CHAP. XLYI-] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. rice.' The iron of Tuscany or Pontus still received the'keenest temper from the skill of the Byzantine workmen.The magazines were plentifully stored with every speciesof offensive and defensive arms. In the construction anduse of ships, engines, and fortifications, the barbariansadmired the superior ingenuity of a people whom theyso often vanquished in the field. The science of tactics,the order, evolutions, arid stratagems, of antiquity, wastranscribed and studied in the books of the Greeks andRomans. But the solitude or degeneracy of the pro­vinces could no longer supply a race of men to handlethose weapons, to guard those walls, to navigate thoseships, and to reduce the theory of war into bold and suc­cessful practice. The genius of Belisarius and Narses hadbeen formed without a master, and expired without a dis­ciple. Neither honour, nor patriotism, nor generous su­perstition, could animate the lifeless bodies of slaves andstrangers, who had succeeded to the honours of the le­gions: it was in the camp alone that the emperor shouldhave exercised a despotic command; it was only in thecamps that his authority was disobeyed and insulted: heappeased and inflamed with gold the licentiousness of thetroops; but their vices were inherent, their victories wereaccidental, and their costly maintenance exhausted thesubstance of a state which they were unable to defend.After a long and pernicious indulgence, the cure of thisinveterate evil was undertaken by Maurice; but the rashattempt, which drew destruction on his own head, tend­ed only to aggravate the disease. A reformer should beexempt from the suspicion of interest, and he mustpossess the confidence and esteem of those whom he pro­poses to reclaim. The troops of Maurice might listento the voice,of a victorious leader; they disdained theadmonitions of statesmen and sophists, and when they 'Maurice himself oomposed twelve books on the militaryart, which are still ex­tant, and have been published (Upsal, 1664.) by John Scheffer at the end of the Tacticsof Arrian, (F;ibricius, Bibllot. Gracca, lib. 4. c. 8. tom. 3. p. 278.) who promises tospeak more fully of his work in its proper place. ,