OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAF. XU1I. historian Procopius, escaped to Sicijy: two-thirds of thearmy were involved in the guilt of treason; and eightthousand insurgents, assembling in the field of Bulla,elected Stoza for their chief, a private soldier, who pos­sessed, in a superior degree, the virtues of a rebel; Un­der the mask of freedom, his eloquence could leadj or atleast impel, the passions of his equals. He raised him­self to a level with Belisarius, and the nephew of theemperor, by daring to encounter them in the field; andthe victorious generals were compelled to acknowledge,that Stoza deserved a purer cause and a more legitimatecommand. Vanquished in battle, he dexterously em­ployed the arts of negotiation; a Roman army was se­duced from their allegiance, and the chiefs, who hadtrusted to his faithless promise, were murdered, by hisorder, in a church of Numidia. When every resourcejeither of force or perfidy, was exhausted, Stoza, withsome desperate Vandals, retired to the wilds of Mauri­tania, obtained the daughter of a barbarian prinCe, andeluded the pursuit of his enemies, by the report of hisdeath. The personal weight of Belisarius, the rank, thespirit, and the temper, of Germanus, the emperor's ne­phew, and the vigour and success of the second adminis­tration of the eunuch Solomon, restored the modesty ofthe camp, and maintained, for a while,. the tranquillity ofAfrica. But the vices of the Byzantine court were feltjn that distant province; the troops complained that theywere neither paid nor relieved * and' as Soon as the publicdisorders were sufficiently mature, Stoza was again alive^in arms, and at the gates of Carthage. He feH in a sin­gle combat, but he smiled in the agonies of death, whenhe was informed that his own javelin had reached theheart of his antagonist. The example of Stoza, and theassurance that a fortunate soldier had been the first king,encouraged the ambition of Gontharis, and he promised,by a private treaty, to divide Africa with the Moors, if,with their dangerous aid, he should ascend the throne of