OCR Output 4io THE DECLINE AND FALL accustomed to obey his commands. Rome, according to the expressionof an orator, recalled her armies, and the unfortunate Severus, destituteof force and of counsel, retired, or rather fled, with precipitationto Ravenna. Here he might for some time have been safe. Thefortifications of Ravenna were able to resist the attempts, and themorasses that surrounded the town, were sufficient to prevent theapproach, of the Italian army. The sea, which Severus commandedwith a powerful fleet, secured him an inexhaustible supply of pro­visions, and gave a free entrance to the legions, which, on the re­turn of spring, would advance to his assistance from Illyricum andthe East. Maximian, who conducted the siege in person, wassoon convinced that he might waste his time and his army in thefruitless enterprise, and that he had nothing to hope either fromforce or famine. With an art more suitable to the character ofDiocletian than to his own, he directed his attack, not so muchagainst the walls of Ravenna, as against the mind of Severus. Thetreachery which he had experienced, disposed that unhappy princeto distrust the most sincere of his friends and adherents. The emis­saries of Maximian easily persuaded his credulity, that a conspiracywas formed to betray the town, and prevailed upon his fears notto expose himself to the discretion of an irritated conqueror, but toaccept the faith of an honourable capitulation. He was.at first re­ceived with humanity, and treated with respect. Maximian con­ducted the captive emperor to Rome, and gave him the most solemnassurances that he had secured his life by the resignation of thepurple. But Severus could obtain only an easy death and an impe-A. D. 307. rial funeral. When the sentence was signified to him, the mannere ruary. ^ executing it was left to his own choice ; he preferred the favour­ite mode of the ancients, that of opening his veins: and as soon ashe expired, his body was carried to the sepulchre which had beenconstructed for the family of Gallienus ,J. Though