OCR Output 348 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1V. selected by the imperial delegates, Tribonian, Theophi-lus, and Dorotheus: and the freedom and purity of the.Antonines was incrusted with the coarser materials of a■degenerate age. The same volume which introducedthe youth of Rome, Constantinople, and Berytus, to thegradual study of the Code and Pandects, is still preciousto the historian, the philosopher, and the magistrate.The institutes of Justinian are divided into fourbooks; they proceed, with no contemptible method,from, l.Persons, to II. Things, and from things, to III.fictions; and the article IV. of Private Wrongs, is ter­minated by the principles of Criminal Law. . ..•I. of I, The distinction of ranks and persons, is the firmestFreemen' basis of a mixed and limited government. In France,and dares. tne remains of liberty are kept alive by the spirit, the ho­nours, and even the prejudices, of fifty thousand nobles.8Two hundred families supply, in lineal descent, the se­cond branch of the English legislature, which maintains,between the king and commons, the balance of the con­stitution, A gradation of patricians and plebeians, ofstrangers and subjects, has supported the aristocracy oft: Genoa, Venice, and ancient Rome. The perfect equality.. .of men is the point in which the extremes of democracy'■and despotism are confounded, since the majesty of theprince or people would be offended, if any heads were exTalted above the level of their fellow-slaves or fellow-citiTzens. In the decline of the Roman empire, the prou4distinctions of the republic were gradually abolished, andthe reason or instinct of Justinian completed the simpleform of an absolute monarchy. The emperor could noteradicate the popular reverence which always waits onthe possession of hereditary Wealth, or the memory of famous ancestors. He delighted to honour with titles i '.' •' , . f See the Annates Politiques de l'abbe de Si. Pierre, ton. 1. p. 25. who dates inthe year 1735. The most ancient families claim the immemorial possession of armsand fiefs. Since the crusades, some, the most truly respectable, have been created by. the king, for merit and services. The recent and vulgar crowd is derived from themultitude of .venal offices without trust or dignity, which continually ennoble thewealthy plebeians. ■