OCR Output Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 109 regard to the observation of the law than to their natural af­fection, and immediately cast out their wives, and the childrenwhich were born of them. And in order to appease God, theyoffered sacrifices, and slew rams, as oblations to him; but it doesnot seem to me to be necessary to set down the names of thesemen. So when Esdras had reformed this sin about the mar­riages of the forementioned persons, he reduced that practice topurity, so that it continued in that state for the time to come. 5. Now when they kept the * feast of tabernacles in the se­venth month, and almost all the people were come together to it,they went up to the open part of the temple, to the gate whichlooked eastward, and desired of Esdras that the laws of Mosesmight be read to them. Accordingly he stood in the midst ofthe multitude and read them; and this he did from morning tonoon. Now, by hearing the laws read to them, they were in­structed to be righteous men for the present and for the future;but as for their past offences, they were displeased at themselves,and proceeded to shed tears on their account, as considering withthemselves, that if they had kept the law, they had endured noneof these miseries which they had experienced. But when Esdrassaw them in that disposition, he bade them go home and not weep,for that it was a festival, and that they ought not to weep there­on, for that it was f not lawful so to do. He exhorted them ra­ther to proceed immediately to feasting, and to do what was suit­able to a feast, and what was agreeable to a day of joy, butto let their repentance and sorrow for their former sins be a se­curity and a guard to them, that they fall no more into the likeoffences. So upon Esdras' exhortation they began to feast;-and when they had so done for eight days, in their tabernacles,they departed to their own homes, singing hymns to God, andreturning thanks to Esdras, for his reformation of what cor­ruptions had been introduced into their settlement. So it camew pass, that after he had obtained this reputation among the to the strictness of the law of Moses, without any regard to the greatness of thosewho had broken it, and without regard to that natural affection or compassion fortheir heathen wives, and their children hy them, which made it so hard for Ezra tocorrect it, deserves greatly to be observed and imitated in all attempts for reforma­tion among Christians, the contrary conduct having ever been the bane of true reli­gion, both among Jews and Christians, while political views, or human passions, orprudential motives, are suffered to take place instead of the divine laws, and so theblessing of God is forfeited, and the church still suffered to continue corrupt fromone generation to another. See chap. viii. sect. 2." * This Jewish feast of tabernacles was imitated in several hentben solemnities, asSpanheim here observes and proves. He also farther observes presently, what greatregard many heathens had to the monuments of their forefathers, as Nehemiah hadhere, sect. 6. t This rule of Ezra's not to fast on a festival day, is quoted in the ApostolicalConstitutions, B. V. as obtaining among Christians also.