OCR Output 804 ROMA. ROMA. indeed, they are mentioned in one breath in theAotitio. (■' Aedem Matris Deum et Apollinis Rham-nnsii.") That this Tholus Cybeles may have beenthe temple which once occupied the site of thepresent circular church of S. Teodoro before referredto, we can only offer a conjecture; its situation, atleast, admirably corresponds with that of the templeof the Idaean Mother. We rind a temple of this deity, as well as one ofJt'VKNTAs mentioned in the A/onunientum Ancy-rannm (tab. iv. 1. 8) as erected by Augustus on thePalatine. The first of these may, however, havebeen only a restoration of the ancient temple. Wecan hardly conclude from the word feci that it wasan entirely new and separate structure; since we findthe same word used in that record with relation toother edifices which were among the most ancient inRome, and of which it is not likely that thereshould have been duplicates: such as the temple ofJupiter Feretrius on the Capitol, that of Quirinus,that of Juno Regina on the Aventine, and others.In these cases it seems probable that the edificeswere in such a ruinous state from long neglect thatAugustus found it necessary to rebuild them fromtheir foundations; which would justify the use of theword^/wri instead of rr-feci, but hardly the regarding ofthem as entirely new temples. The great care usedby Augii;>tus in restoring the ancient temples isalluded to by Horace ((hi. hi. G). The temple ofJ u vent as may possibly have been new, at all eventsit could hardly have been the one dedicated byC. Licinius Lueullus about the same time as that ofthe M;iter Magna Idaea, since the former was inthe Circus Maxitnus. (Liv. xxxvi. 36; cf. Cic.Brut. 18, ad Att. i. 18.) What the Pkmtapylum may have been which ismentioned in the Xntitia between the temple ofApollo and the palace of Augustus, it is difficult tosay, except that it was probably a building with fivegates. Preller (Reyivnen, p. 183) cites a passagefrom an anonymous describer of the Antiquities ofConstantinople in Bauduri (Imp. Orient, i. p. 21),in which a building in that city called Tetrapylum,which was used for depositing and bewailing thecorpse of the emperor, or of that of any member ofhis family, is mentioned; and as this building issaid to have been imitated from one at Rome, Prellerthinks it highly probable that the Peutapylum inquestion may have afforded the model, and been usedfor a similar purpose. Of the temples of JuriTKB VlOTOB and Ji titerStatok — the former near the Nova Via and PortaMugionis, the latter farther off towards the Sacra Via— we have already spoken when describing the Ro-mulean city; besides which there seems to have beena temple of Jupiter Propugnatob, probably ofthe time of the Antouines, known only from an in­scription. (Gruter. ccc. 2; Orel!. 42; Caniaa, In-diaizi-jiit-, p. JG'J.) We have also had occasion tomention the Curiae Vktkrbs and the sacellum ofFohtuna Rkjjpicikxs. Other ancient buildingsand shrines on tiie Palatine, the sites of whichcannot be exactly determined, were the CuriaSauorum (Palatinoruin), where the ancilia andthe lituus Romuli were preserved, probably notfar from the temple of Vesta (Dionys. ii. 70; Cic.Die. i. 17 ; Gruter, fiiscr. elxiii. 5; Orel!. 2244);a f'anum, or Ara Ferris (Cie. Leg. ii. II; Val.Max. ii. 5. § G; Plin. ii. 5), an ancient sacellumof the Dea Viriplaca, the appeasing deity ofconnubial quarrels (Val. Max. ii. 1. § 6); and an 'Afpotiiutov, or Temj'le of Vtsrs (t)"uo CmIxxiv. 3). When the Romans began to impror? uVrmestic architecture, and to build liner hs»euBithose which had contented their more shtpJ* »»■tors, the Palatine, from it* excellent and coBiea*situation, early became a fashionable quarter,have already alluded slightly to some of tht w»noted residences on this hill. The boos* of \mti-viuft Vaci-us is one of the most ancient »Lk:find mentioned in this quarter. It waspul>»i w«"ii. c. 330 in consequence of the treasonous snfMof its owner; after which the site rriniirrrd;upon, and obtained the name of Yaco 1'eata(L/tviii. 19; Ps. Cic. p. Pom. 38); but bow mt <remained in this state it is impossiL>k to »y. TiaPoRTiCL'S Catch rose on the lr^htinerroro»«EJfcause. Its site had previously been occupy !n ^»house of M. Kulvius Flaceus, who per^hei a 'JIsedition of C. Gracchus: the bouse wastiira rurf,and the ground on which it stood caued FLAcmsiAjiEA, till this portico was erected on it b? -'*'■*tins Catulus, after his Cimbric vktorv. (\x-vi. 3. § 1 ; Ps. Cic. p. 43.) Sear it fitt ■ House of Cicero which he bought eiCrmm.-1probably not the celebrated orator. — lbeut?--*we have already related. It seems to fca*fthe XE. side of the Palatine, as Cicero t> deo*by Plutarch as traversing the Sacra Vl-v ii Iarrive at the forum (Cic. 22): and Vitus? «lCicero " vicinum consults,*1 that is. of Cantr ^then dwelt in the Regia (ad Att. ii. 24). CiTuJHouse was also on the Palatine, and »so smmby Augustus to his re^dence, (SuK. liL17.) Here also was a House of Axrcsrca, «•Augustus presented to Agrippa and MeauCass. liii. 27); and also the HorsB or Sfamed for its magnificence. (Cic. Scsur. 27;xxxvi. 3.) With the reign of Augustus a new ericfor the Palatine. It was now marked oatimperial re:>idence; and in process of tint. \buildings erected by successive tmperors ov&-i4the hill, and excluded all private |>fe>es&i Igustus was born in this Region, at a piaoe Mad Capita Bubula, the situation of wbeft Hunable to determine (Suet. Attg. 5). la ear> 4hood he occupied the house of the oraiorC laCalvus *'juxta forum super &caias analm**!72); hut neither can the site of xh'ta hm ra*i\n itely fixed. Hence he removed to tie Palata*.« r. z*i mmi :s at first occupied the House or Ho«ts3> he a dwelling conspicuous neither far size wr spied(lb.) After his victory over Sexto* I^tant*^*appears to have purchased seveml b^a«e« a' Ihis own, and to have vowed the Temple or Ariwhich he afterwards built (Veil. PaL ii.Cass. lxix. 15.) This temple, the second oralto that deity at Rome—the earlier one bfcac %Circus Flaminius—does not.however.af-fem: ttibeen begun till after the battle of „\<tiara, or Ievents the plan of it was extended after xitmiIt is well known that after that victory Mm^dedicated a temple to the Leucadian Ap> >Actium, and in like manner the new «?r».%the Palatine was referred to the same bWrr. 4the phrases '* Actiiis Apollo" (Vine. Am. vmiProp. iv. 6. 67), and" Phoebus Xarabs" \-iNavali stant sacra Palatia Phoebo,* r*rotw w. 1.1was dedicated in b. c 27. It was stmasda portico containuig the L-i. l . ^si