OCR Output 190 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXIIL BOOK XIII. CONTAINING THE INTERVAL oi? EIGHTY-TWO YEAH*. [FROM THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEES, TO THEDEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA.] CHAP. I. Hem Jonathan took the government after his brother Judas, andhchsi he, together with his brother Simon, imaged \siar againstBaechides. § 1. BY what means the nation of the Jews recovered theirfreedom when they had been brought into slavery by the Ma­cedonians, and what struggles, and how great battles Judas thefeneral of their army rail through, till he was slain as he wasghting for them, hath been related in the foregoing book; butafter he was dead, all the wicked, and those that transgressed thelaws of their forefathers, sprang up again in Judea, and grewupon them and distressed them on every side. A famine alsoassisted their wickedness, and afflicted the country, till not a few,who by reason of their want of necessaries, and because theywere not able to bear up the miseries that both the famineand their enemies brought upon them, deserted their country,and went to the Macedonians. And now Bacchides gatheredthose Jews together who had apostatized from the accustomedway of living of their forefathers, and chose to live like theirneighbours, and committed the care of the country to them,who also caught the friends of Judas, and those of his party,and delivered them up to Bacchides, who, when he had, in thefirst place tortured and tormented them at his pleasure, he, bythat means at length killed them. And when this calamity ofthe Jews was become so great, as they had never had expe­rience of the like since their return out of Babylon, those thatremained of the companions of Judas, seeing that the nationwas ready to be destroyed after a miserable manner, came tohis brother Jonathan, and desired him that he would imitate hi»brother, and that care which he took of his countrymen, forwhose liberty in general he died also; and that he would notpermit the nation to be. without a governor, especially in thosedestructive circumstances wherein it now was. And when Jon­