OCR Output 258 ROMAN EMPIRE. dom of Yemen displays the limits, or at least the situa­tion, of Arabia Felix: the name of Neged is extendedover the inland space; and the birth of'Mahomet hasillustrated the province of Hejaz along the coast 'ofthe Red sea.b •" • » Manners of The measure of population is regulated by theweenfor means of subsistence; and the inhabitants of"J""*?1*1 this Vast peninsula might be outnumbered bythe subjects of a fertile and industrious province.Along the shores of the Persian gulf of the ocean, andeven of the Red sea, the Itthyophagi,' or fish eaters,continued to wander in quest of their precarious food.In this primitive and abject state, which ill deserves thename of society, the human brute, without 'art or laws,almost without sense or language, is poorly distinguishedfrom the rest of the animal creation. Generations andages might roll away in silent oblivion, and the helplesssavage was restrained from multiplying'his face, by thewants and pursuits which confined his existence to thenarrow margin of the sea-coast. But in an early periodof antiquity the great body of the Arabs had emergedfrom this scene of misery; and as the naked wilder­ness could not'maintain* a people of hunters, they roseat once to the more secure and plentiful condition ofthe pastoral life. The same life'is uniformly pursuedby the roving tribes of the desert, and in the portrait ofthe modern Bedoweens, we may trace the features oftheir ancestors,1* who, in the age of Moses or Mahomet , :•'» l 1i 'i 1 Ji '' Consult, peruse, and study, the Specimen 1 listom Arabum of Pocock! (Oxon.1650, in 4to.) The thirty pages of text and version are extracted from the Dynastiesof Gregory Abulpharagms, which Pocock afterward translated: (Oion. 1663, in4to.) the three hundred and fifty-eight notes from a classic and original work onthe Arabian antiquities. . 'Arrianremarks the Icthyophagi of the coast of Hejaz, (PeriplusMarisErythnEi,p. It.) and beyond Aden. (p. 15.) It seems probable that the shores of the Red sea(in the largest sense) were occupied by these savages in the time, perhaps, of Cy­rus; but I can hardly believe that any cannibals were left among the savages inthe reign of Justinian. (Procop. de Bell. Persic, lib. 1. c. 19.) k See the Specimen Historis Arabum of Pocock, p. 2. 5. 86, &c. The journeyof M. d'Arvieux, in 1664, to the camp of the emir of mount Carmel, (Voyage de laPalestine, Amsterdam, 1718.) exhibits a pleasing and original picture of the life ofthe Bedoweens, which may be illustrated from Niebuhr (Description de 1'Arabic,