OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 84-1 was a careful attender on him, and on Alexandra, and had nosmall occasions to bear ill-will to Herod: for he was a kinsmanof one Joseph, whom he had slain, and a brother of those thatwere formerly slain at Tyre by Antony: yet could not these mo­tives induce Dositheus to serve Hyrcanus in this affair, for prefer -ing the hopes he had from the present king to those he had fromhim, he gave Herod the letter. So he took his kindness in goodpart, and bid him besides do what he had already done, that is, goon in serving him, by rolling up the epistle and sealing it again,and delivering it to Malchus, and then to bring back his letterin answer to it; for it would be much better if he could knowMalchus' intentions also. And when Dositheus was very readyto serve him in this point also, the Arabian governor returnedback for answer, that he would receive Hyrcanus, and all thatshould come -with him, and even all the Jews that were of hisparty: that he would, moreover, send forces sufficient to securethem in their journey, and that he should be in no want of anything he should desire. Now as soon as Herod had receivedthis letter, he immediately sent for Hyrcanus, and questionedhim about the league he had made with Malchus : and when hedenied it, showed his letter to the sanhedrim, and put the manto death immediately. 3. And this account we give the reader, as it is contained inthe commentaries of king Herod: but other historians do notagree with them, for they suppose that Herod did not find, butrather make this an occasion for thus putting him to death, andthat by treacherously laying a snare for him; for thus do theywrite; That Herod and he were once at a treat, and that Herodhad given no occasion to suspect [that he was displeased at him,]but put this question to Hyrcanus, Whether he had received anyletters from Malchus? And when he answered, that he had re­ceived letters, but those of salutation only; and when he askedfarther, whether he had not received any presents from him ? andwhen he had replied, that he had received no more than fourhorses to ride on, which Malchus had sent him; and they pre­tend that Herod charged these upon him as the crimes of brib­ery and treason, and gave order that he should be led away andslain. And in order to demonstrate that he had been guilty ofno offence, when he was thus brought to his end, they allegedhow mild his temper had been, and that even in his youth hehad never given any demonstration of boldness or rashness, andthat the case was the same when he came to be king, but thathe even then committed the management of the greatest part ofpublic affairs to Antipater; and that he was now above four­score years old, and knew that Herod's government was in a se­cure state. He also came over Euphrates and left those who