OCR Output 284 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. rity, more absolute in the affection of his troops, Narsesled a numerous and gallant army from Philippopolis to-Salona, from whence he coasted the eastern side of theHadriatie as far as the confines of Italy. His progresswas checked. The east could not supply vessels capableof transporting such multitudes of men and horses.The Franks, who, in the general confusion, had usurpred the greater part of the Venetian province, refused afree passage to the friends of the Lombards. The stationof Verona was occupied by Teias, with the flower of the^Gothic forces; and that skilful commander had over­spread the adjacent country with the fall of woods andthe inundation of waters.1 In this perplexity, an officerof experience proposed a measure, secure by the appear­ance of rashness; that the Roman -army should cau­tiously advance along the sea-shore, while the fleet pre­ceded their march, and successively cast a bridge of boats•over the mouths of the rivers, the Timavus, the Brenta,the Adige, and the Po, that fall into the Hadriatic to thenorth of Ravenna. Nine days he reposed in the city,collected the fragments of the Italian army, and marchedtowards Rimini to meet the defiance of an insultingenemy. Defeat and The prudence of Narses impelled him to speedy andTo'iia,9 decisive action. His powers were the last effort of thejoiy!'552' state: the cost of each day accumulated the enormousaccount; and the nations, untrained to discipline or fa­tigue, might be rashly provoked to turn their arms againsteach other, or against their benefactor. The same con­siderations might have tempered the ardour of Totila.But he was conscious, that the clergy and people of Italyaspired to a second revolution: he felt or suspected the and educated in the Byzantine court by the various motives of policy, pride, andgenerosity. (Procop. Persic. lib. 1. c. 23.) k In the time of Augustus, and in the middle ages, the whole waste from Aqoileiato Ravenna was covered with woods, lakes, and morasses. Man has sabdncd nature,and the land has been cultivated, since the waters are confmed and emhanked.See the learned researches of Muratori, (Antiquitat. Italic medii AZii, tom. 1. dis­sert. 21. p. 253, 354.) from Vitruvius, Strabo, Heiodian, old charters, and looalknowledge.