OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES. 305 communities had severely to pay for their renewed revoltfrom Rome, some of them even to annihilation. Nothingopposed the advance into Macedonia and Thrace, Philippiwas occupied, Abdera was voluntarily evacuated by thePontic garrison, the European continent in general wascleared of the enemy. At the end of the third year of thewar (669) Sulla was able to take up winter quarters in 85.Thessaly, with a view to begin the Asiatic campaign in thespring of 670,* for which purpose he gave orders to build 84.ships in the Thessalian ports. Meanwhile the circumstances of Asia Minor also had Reaction inundergone a material change. If king Mithradates had Asia Minoronce come forward as the liberator of the Hellenes, if he SSJ?81had introduced his rule with the recognition of civic inde- dates,pendence and with remission- of taxes, the brief ecstasyhad been but too rapidly and too bitterly followed by dis­appointment. He had very soon emerged in his truecharacter, and had begun to exercise a despotism far sur­passing the tyranny of the Roman governors—a despotismwhich drove even the patient inhabitants of Asia Minor toopen revolt. The sultan again resorted to the most violentexpedients. His decrees granted independence to the placeswhich turned to him, citizenship to the metaeci, full remissionof debts to the debtors, lands to those that had none, freedomto the slaves; nearly 15,000 such manumitted slaves foughtin the army of Archelaus. The most fearful scenes werethe result of this high-handed subversion of all existing order.The most considerable mercantile cities, Smyrna, Colophon,Ephesus, Tralles, Sardes closed their gates against the king'sgovernors or put them to death. On the other hand theking's lieutenant Diodorus, a philosopher of note like Aris-tion, of another school, but equally available for the worst of * The chronology of these events is like all their details enveloped in anobscurity which investigation is able to dispel, at most, only partially. Thatthe battle of Chaeronea took place, if not on the same day as the storming ofAthens (Pausan. i. 20), at any rate soon afterwards, perhaps in March 668, g6,is tolerably certain. That the succeeding Thessalian and the second Bceotiancampaign took up not merely the remainder of 668 but also the whole of 669, 86. 85.is in itself probable and is rendered still more so by the fact that Sulla's enter­prises in Asia are not sufficient to fill more than a single campaign. Licinianuxalso appears to indicate that Sulla returned to Athens for the winter of 668- 80-HH,669 and there took in hand the work of investigation and punishment; iifWwhich he relates the battle of Orchomenus. The crossing of Sulla to Ailn luinaccordingly been placed not in 669, but in 670. NA. M, vol. m. x r