OCR Output an. 587.] 375 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Babylonians. Accordingly both the people,and Johanan, disobeyed the counsel of God,which he gave them by the prophet, and re­moved into Egypt, and carried Jeremiah andBaruch along with them.* While they were there, God signified tothe prophet, that the king of Babylon wasabout making an expedition against theEgyptians; and commanded him to foretellto the people that Egypt should be taken,and that the king of Babylon should slaysome of them, and should take others cap­tive, and bring them to Babylon; which thingscame to pass accordingly. For on the fifthyear after the destruction of Jerusalem, whichwas the twenty-third of the reign of Nebu­chadnezzar, he made an expedition againstCoele Syria; and when he had possessedhimself of it, he made war against the Am­monites, and Moabites; and when he hadbrought all those nations under subjection,he fell upon Egypt, in order to overthrow it.And he slew the fking that then reigned, andset up another; and took those Jews thatwere there captives, and Jled them away toBabylon.|| And such was the end of the na­tion of the Hebrews; it having twice gonebeyond Euphrates. For the people of theten tribes were carried out of Samaria bythe Assyrians, in the days of king Hoshea.After which the people of the two tribes, thatremained after Jerusalem was taken, werecarried away by Nebuchadnezzar, king ofBabylon and Chaldea. Now as to Shalma- * Jeremiah xliii. 6. t Herodotus says, this king of Egypt, (Pharaoh Hophra,or Apries,) was slain by the Egyptians; as Jeremiah fore­told his slaughter by his enemies, xliv. 29, 30. and thatas a sign of the destruction of Egypt, by NebuchadnezzarJosephus says, this king was slain by Nebuchadnezzarhimself. Which assertion is supposed by Dr. Hudson tocontradict Herodotus. If it do, the question will remain,whether Herodotus or Josephus had the more authenticaccounts of Egypt at that time. Nor is such a questioneasily decided, for want of some more authentic and ori­ginal monuments of that^country. J Of this real captivity of the Jews in Egypt to Baby­lon, and particularly as to Jeremiah and Baruch, contraryto our common copies, Jer. xliv. 12, 13, 27. see Authent.Rec. Part I. pages 6, 7. II Since the people were thus carried into captivity, thesons of the royal family, and of the nobility of the land,made eunuchs and slaves in the palace of the king ofBabylon; the vessels of the temple carried thither, theking made a tributary, and the whole land now broughtinto vassalage under the Babylonians; from hence wemast reckon the beginning of the seventy years' captivity neser, he removed the Israelites out of theircountry, and placed therein the nation of theCutheans; who had formerly belonged to theinterior of Persia and Media; but were thencalled Samaritans; by taking the name of thecountry to which they were removed. Butthe king of Babylon, who brought out thetwo tribes,§ placed no other nation in theircountry. By which means all Judea, andJerusalem, and the temple, continued to bea desert for seventy years. But the entireinterval of time which passed from the cap­tivity of the Israelites, to the carrying awayof the two tribes, proved to be a hundred andthirty years, six months, and ten days. CHAP. X. CONCERNING DANIEL, AND WHAT BEFELL HIM AT BABYLON. NEBUCHADNEZZAR, king of Babylon,took some of the most noble of theJews that were children, and the kinsmen ofZedekiah their king; such as were remark­able for the beauty of their bodies, and thecomeliness of their countenances; and de­livered them into the hands of tutors, and tothe improvement to be made by them. Healso made some of them to be eunuchs; whichcourse he took also with other nations whomhe had taken in the flower of their age,** andafforded them their diet from his own table;and had them instructed in the institutes ofthe country, and taught the learning of the foretold by the prophet Jeremiah, chap. xxv. 11. and xxix.10. and in the fourth year of Jehoiakim must be the firstyear in that computation. Prideavx's Connection, an.606. B. § We see here that Judea was left in a manner deso­late, after the captivity of the two tribes, and was notre-peopled with foreign colonies; perhaps as an indica­tion of Providence that the Jews were to re-people itwithout opposition themselves. I esteem the latter andpresent desolate condition of the same country withoutbeing re-peopled by foreign colonies, to be a like indica­tion, that the same Jews are hereafter to re-people itagain at their long-expected restoration. ** That Daniel was made one of those eunuchs of whomIsaiah prophesied, xxxix. 7. and the three children hiscompanions also, seems to me plain, both here and in ourcopies of Daniel, i. 3, 6, 7.—11, 18. Although it mustbe granted, that some married persons, that had children,were sometimes called eunuchs, in a general acceptationfor courtiers, on account that so many of the ancientcourtiers were real eunuchs. See Gen. xxxix. 1. withAntiq. 6. X. 8, 9, and 10.