OCR Output C. II.] JONATHAN. 257 as it were, cut off those limbs of their body which were in­fected, in order to prevent the distemper's spreading farther ;for they set the north-west cloister, which was joined to thetower of Antonia, on fire, and after that broke off abouttwenty cubits of that cloister, and thereby made a beginningin burning the sanctuary: two days after which, or on thetwenty-fourth day of the forenamed month [Panemus orTamuz,] the Romans set fire to the cloister that joined to theother, when the fire went fifteen cubits farther. The Jews,in like manner, cut off its roof; nor did they entirely leaveoff what they were about till the tower of Antonia wasparted from the temple, even when it was in their power tohave stopped the fire; nay, they lay still while the templewas first set on fire, and deemed this spreading of the fireto be for their own advantage. However, the armies werestill fighting one against another about the temple, and thewar was managed by continual sallies of particular partiesajrainst one another. 10. Now there was at that time a man among the Jews;low of stature he was, and of a despicable appearance; ofno character either as to his family, or in other respects; hisname was Jonathan. Ile went out at the high-priest John'smonument, and uttered many other insolent things to theRomans, and challenged the best of them all to a singlecombat. But many of those that stood there in the armyhuffed him, and many of them (as they might well be) weroafraid of him. Some of them also reasoned thus, and thatjustly enough, that it was not fit to fight with a man thatdesired to die : because those that utterly despaired of deliver­ance had, besides other passions, a violence of attacking menthat could not be opposed, and had no regard to God himself:and that to hazard one's self with a person, whom, if youovercome, you do no great matter, and by whom it ishazardous that you may be taken prisoner, would be an in­stance not of manly courage, but of unmanly rashness. Sothere being nobody that came out to accept the man's chal­lenge, and the Jew cutting them with a great number of re­proaches, as cowards (for he was a very haughty man in him­ 22 *