OCR Output 126 ROMAN EMPIRE. Theophilus; who, though himself of a diminutive per­son, was always followed by a train of tall and handsomedomestics. Basil attended his patron to the governmentof Peloponnesus; eclipsed, by his personal merit, thebirth and dignity of Theophilus, and formed an usefulconnexion with a wealthy and charitable matron of Pa-tras. Her spiritual or carnal love embraced the youngadventurer, whom she adopted as her son. Danielis pre­sented him with thirty slaves; and the produce of her, bounty was expended in the support of his brothers, andthe purchase of some large estates in Macedonia. Hisgratitude or ambition still attached him to the service ofTheophilus; and a lucky accident recommended him tothe notice of the court. A famous wrestler, in the trainof the Bulgarian ambassadors, had defied, at the royalbanquet, the boldest and most robust of the Greeks.The strength of Basil was praised; he accepted the chal­lenge; and the barbarian champion was overthrown atthe first onset. A beautiful but vicious horse was con­demned to be hamstrung; it was subdued by the dexte­rity and courage of the servant of Theophilus; and hisconqueror was promoted to an honourable rank in theimperial stables. But it was impossible to obtain theconfidence of Michael, without complying with his vices;and his new favourite, the great chamberlain of the pa­lace, was raised and supported by a disgraceful marriagewith a royal concubine, and the dishonour of his sister,who succeeded to her place. The public administrationhad been abandoned to the Caesar Bardas, the brotherand enemy of Theodora; but the arts of female influ­ence persuaded Michael to hate and to fear his uncle: hewas drawn from Constantinople, under the pretext of aCretan expedition, and stabbed in the tent of audience,by the sword of the chamberlain, and in the presence ofthe emperor. About a month after this execution, Basilwas invested with the title of Augustus and the govern­ment of the empire. He supported this unequal assor