OCR Output 88 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL, admitted into the new edifice; and the choice of the ma­terials was applied to the strength, the lightness, or thesplendour of the respective parts. The solid piles, whichsustained the cupola, were composed of huge blocks offreestone, hewn into squares and triangles, fortified bycircles of iron, and firmly cemented by the infusion oflead and quick lime: but the weight of the cupola wasdiminished by the levity of its substance, which consistseither of pumice-stone, that floats in the water, or ofbricks from the isle of Rhodes, five times less ponderousthan the ordinary sort. The whole frame of the edificewas constructed of brick; but those base materials wereconcealed by a crust of marble; and the inside of St. So­phia, the cupola, the two larger, and thesix smaller,semi-domes, the walls, the hundred columns, and thepavement, delight even the eyes of barbarians with aMarbles, rich and variegated picture. A poet," who beheld theprimitive lustre of St. Sophia, enumerates the colours,the shades, and the spots of ten or twelve marbles, jas­pers, and porphyries, which nature had profusely diver­sified, and which were blended and contrasted as it wereby a skilful painter. The triumph of Christ was adornedwith the last spoils of Paganism ; but the greater part ofthese costly stones was extracted from the quarries ofAsia Minor, the isles and continent of Greece, Egypt,Africa, and Gaul. Eight columns of porphyry, whichAurelian had placed in the temple of the sun, were of­fered by the piety of a Roman matron ; eight others ofgreen marble were presented by the ambitious zeal ofthe magistrates of Ephesus: both are admirable by theirsize and beauty ; but every order of architecture disclaims • Paul Silentiarius, in dark and poetic language, describes the various stones andmarbles that were employed in the edifioe of St. Sophia .(P. 2. p. 129. 133, &c.&io.) 1. The Carystian—pale, with iron veins. 2. The Phrygian—of two aorta,both of a rosy hne; the one with a white shade, the other purple, with silver flowers.3. The Porphyry of Egypt—with small stars. 4. The green marble of Laconia.5. The Corian—from Mount lassis, with oblique veins, white and red. 6. The Ly-dian—pale, with a red flower. 7. The African or Mauritaman—of a gold or saf­fron hue. 8. The Celtic—black, with white veins. 9. The Botplurric—white, withblack edges. Besides the Proconn«iaii, which formed the pavement; the ThessalianMolossiun, &c. which are lets distinctly painted.