OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. Ill linued to fight, they quickly turned their backs, andall betook themselves to a hasty flight. They haltedhowever for a time at the foot of the hills, endeavoringto restore order, while the Romans hesitated to ad­vance their line against the opposite steep. But, whenthey saw the battalions pressing forward briskly, theyrenewed their flight, and were driven in a panic withintheir works. The Romans were not far from the ram­part; and continuing their efforts, had nearly sur­mounted it, when such a quantity of rain poured sud­denly down, that it was with difficulty they regainedtheir camp. The sun, too, had been excessively hot,as is usually the case when shining forth from amongclouds surcharged with water; which added greatly tothe fatigues of the day. Some were even seized witha religious scruple against attempting any thing fartherat that time. Though both night and the rain invitedthe Carthaginians to take the repose so necessary tothem, yet fear and the impending danger would notadmit of it; and as they had reason to expect an as­sault from the enemy at the first light, they raised theheight of the rampart with stones collected from theadjacent valleys, endeavoring to secure themselves byfortifications, since they found no protection in theirarms. But the desertion of their allies soon gave themreason to think that it was the safer way to fly. Thebeginning of this revolt arose from Attanes, prince ofthe Turdetans, who deserted with a great number ofhis countrymen; and afterwards, two fortified towns,with their garrisons, were delivered to the Romans bytheir commanders. Hasdrubal, dreading, since a dis­position to throw off the Carthaginian yoke had onoeseized their minds, that the evil might spread farther,decamped during the silence of the ensuing night. 16. At the first light, the outgitards having broughtintelligence of the enemy's departure, Scipio, sendingforward the cavalry, gave orders to the army to march;and these were executed with such expedition that,bad they directly pursued the track of the fugitives,they had certainly overtaken them; but they were