OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. was beheaded in prison like the vilest malefactor*.lVL Those who are inclined to palliate the cruelties ofConstantius, assert that he soon relented, and en­deavoured to recall the bloody mandate; but that thesecond messenger intrusted with the reprieve wasdetained by the eunuchs, who dreaded the unforgivingtemper of Gallus, and were desirous of reuniting totheir empire the wealthy provinces of the East.danger Besides the reigning emperor, Julian alone sur- escape . ° ° * uiian. vived, of all the numerous posterity of ConstantiusChlorus. The misfortune of his royal birth involvedhim in the disgrace of Gallus. From his retirementin the happy country of Ionia, he was conveyed undera strong guard to the court of Milan; where he lan­guished above seven months, in the continual appre­hension of suffering the same ignominious death,which was daily inflicted, almost before his eyes, onthe friends and adherents of his persecuted family.His looks, his gestures, his silence, were scrutinizedwith malignant curiosity, and he was perpetuallyassaulted by enemies, whom he had never offended,and by arts to which he was a stranger t. But in theschool of adversity, Julian insensibly acquired thevirtues of iirmness and discretion. He defended hishonour, as well as his life, against the ensnaring sub­tleties of the eunuchs, who endeavoured to extortsome declaration of his sentiments; and whilst hecautiously suppressed his grief and resentment, henobly disdained to flatter the tyrant, by any seemingapprobation of his brother's murder. Julian most * See the complete narrative of the journey and death of Gallus in Ammianus,l . 14. c 11. Julian cornplains that his brother was put to death without a trial jattempts to justify, or at least to excuse, the cruel revenge which he had inflictedon his enemies; but seems at last to acknowledge that he might justly have beendeprived of the purple. f See Ammianus Marcellin, L xv. c. i. 3. 8. Julian himself, in his epistle tothe Athenians, draws a very lively and just picture of his own danger, and oAiissentiments. He shows, however, a tendency to exaggerate his sufferings, by in­sinuating, though in obscure terms, that they lasted above a year; a period whichcannot be reconciled with the truth of Chronology.