OCR Output GHAP. Xi.IV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 330. In a bigoted and persecuting court, the principal minis­ter was accused of a secret aversion to the Christian faith,and was supposed to entertain the sentiments of an athe­ist and a Pagan, which have been imputed, inconsistentlyenough, to the last philosophers of Greece. His avaricewas more clearly proved and more sensibly felt. If hewere swayed by gifts in the administration of justice, theexample of Bacon will again occur; nor can the meritof Tribonian atone for his baseness, if he degraded thesanctity of his profession ;.and if laws were every dayenacted, modified, or repealed, for the base considera­tion of his private emolument. In the sedition of Con­stantinople, his removal was granted to the clamours,perhaps to the just indignation, of the people; but thequaestor was speedily restored, and till the hour of hisdeath, he possessed, above twenty years, the favour andconfidence of the emperor. His passive and dutiful sub­mission has been honoured with the praise of Justinianhimself, whose vanity was incapable of discerning howoften that submission degenerated into the grossest adu­lation. Tribonian adored the virtues of his graciousmaster: the earth was unworthy of such a prince; andhe affected a pious fear, that Justinian, like Elijah orRomulus, would be snatched into the air, and translatedalive to the mansions of celestial glory." - If Caesar had achieved the reformation of the Roman The Codelaw, his creative genius, enlightened by reflection andean/'study, would have given to the world a pure and original p^ig28,system of jurisprudence. Whatever flattery might sug- *'I?1-y29'gest, the emperor of the east was afraid to establish hisprivate judgment as the standard of equity: in the pos­session of legislative power, he borrowed the aid of time e This story is related by Hesychius (de'Viris lllustribus), Procopius, (Anecdot.c. 13.) and Suidas. (tom. 3. p. 501.) Such flattery is incredible! Nihil est quod credere de se Non poterit cum laudator Diis scqua potestas.Fontenelle (tom. 1. p. 32—39.) has ridiculed the impudence of the modest Virgil.But the same Fontenelle places his king above the divine Augustus; and the sagettoileau has not blushed to say,—" Le destin a ses yeux u'oseroit halancer." Yetneither Augustus nor Louis XIV". were fools.