OCR Output an. 1493.] 131 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. cured, let the magistrates and senate of thosecities that lie near the place in which themurder was committed assemble together,and measure the distance from the placewhere the dead body lies: then let the ma­gistrate of the nearest city purchase a heifer;and bring it to a valley, and to a place thereinwhere there is no land ploughed, or treesplanted; and let them cut the sinews of theheifer: then the priests, and Levites, andsenate of that city, shall take water, and washtheir hands over the head of the heifer; andthey shall openly declare, that their handsare innocent of this murder, and that theyhave neither done it themselves, nor beenassisting to any that did it.* They shall alsobeseech God to be merciful to them, that nosuch horrid fact may any more be done in thatland. Aristocracy, and the way of living under it,is the best constitution. And may you neverhave any inclination to any other form of go­vernment: and may you always love thatform, and have the laws for your governors,and govern all your laws according to them.For you need no supreme governor, but God.But if you shall desire a king, let him be oneof your ownt nation; let him be always care­ful of justice, and other virtues perpetually;let him submit to the laws, and esteem God'scommands to be his highest wisdom. But lethim do nothing without the high-priest, andthe votes of the senators: let him not have agreat number of wives, nor presume abun­dance of riches, nor a multitude of horses;whereby he may grow too proud to submit tothe laws. And ii he affect any such things,let him be restrained; lest he become so po­tent that his state be inconsistent with yourwelfare. Let it not be esteemed lawful to removeboundaries; neither our own, nor of thosewith whom we are at peace. Be careful thatyou do "not take thoseJ landmarks away; * Dent. xxi. 1—9. t Dent. xvii. 16. j Deut. xix. 14. It was the common practice both withthe Hebrews and with the Romans to erect landmarks todistinguish the boundaries of particular estates; and insetting apart land for any use, they erected a pillar, uponwhich was marked its length and breadth. From manyancient inscriptions it is evident that the Romans addedthe following letters: H. M. H. N. S. Hoc monumentumha redes non sequitur. See Horace, b. i. sat. viii. 12. voL. I. NOS. 11 & 12 which are, as it were, a divine and unshakenlimitation of rights made by God himself, tolast for ever; since this going beyond limits,and gaining ground upon others, is the occa­sion of wars and seditions: for those that re­move boundaries are not far off an attempt U>subvert the laws. He that plants a piece of land, whose treesproduce fruits before the fourth year, is notto bring thence any first-fruits to God: noris he to make use of that fruit himself, for it isnot produced in its proper season. For whennature has a force put upon it at an unseason­able time, the fruit is not proper for God, norfor the master's use; but let the owner gatherall that is grown on the fourth year; for thenit is in its proper season. And let him thathas gathered it carry it to the holy city, andspend that, together with the tythe of his otherfruits, in feasting with his friends, with theorphans, and the widows. But on the filthyear the fruit is his own, and he may use itas he pleases. || You are not to sow a piece of land withseed, which is planted with vines; for it isenough that it supply nourishment to thatplant, and be not harassed by ploughing also.You are to plough your land with oxen, andnot to oblige other animals to come under thesame yoke with them; but to till your landwith those beasts that are of the same kindwith each other. The seeds are also to bepure and without mixture, and not to be com­pounded of two or three sorts: since naturedoes not rejoice at the union of things thatare not in their own nature alike; nor areyou to permit beasts of different kinds togender together.§ For there is reason tofear, that this unnatural abuse may extendfrom beasts of different kinds to men; thoughit takes its first rise from evil practices aboutsuch smaller things. Nor is any thing to beallowed by imitation, whereof any degree ofsubversion may creep into the constitution. The heathens had a deity called Jupiter Terminalig, ap­pointed to preside over bounds and landmarks. NumaPompilius appointed stones to be set as bounds to everyman's land, and dedicated them to Jupiter Terminalis. Heordered that those who removed them should be slain assacrilegious persons, and they and their oxen devoted todestruction. B. I! Levit. xix. 25. § Levit. xix. 19. Kk