OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEV?s; 17T 4. For in the first year of the reign of Nero, upon the deathof Azizus, king of Emesa, Soemus *, his brother, succeeded inhis kingdom, and Aristobulus, the son of Herod, king of Chal-cis, was intrusted by Nero, with the government of Lesser Ar­menia. Caesar also bestowed on Agrippa a certain part of Ga­lilee, Tiberias f, and Taricheae, and ordered them to submit tohis jurisdiction. He gave him also Julias, a city of Perea, withfourteen villages that lay about it. 5. Now, as for the affairs of the Jews, they grew worse andworse continually ; for the country was again filled with rob­bers and impostors, who deluded the multitude. Yet did Felixcatch, and put to death, many of those impostors every day, to­gether with the robbers. He also caught Eleazer, the son ofDmeas, who had gotten together a company of robbers; and-this he did by treachery ; for he gave him assurance, that heshould suffer no harm, and thereby persuaded him to come to him;but when he came he bound him, and sent him to Rome. Felixalso bore an ill-will to Jonathan, the high-priest, because hefrequently gave him admonitions about governing the Jewish af­fairs better than he did, lest he should himself have complaintsmade of him by the multitude, since hs it was who had desiredCaesar to send him as procurator of Judea. So Felix contrived amethod whereby he might get rid of him, now he was becomeso continually troublesome to him ; for such continual admoni­tions are grievous to those who are disposed to act unjustly.Wherefore Felix persuaded one of Jonathan's mostfaithful friends,a citizen of Jerusalem, whose name was Doras, to bring the rob«bers upon Jonathan, in order to kill him ; and this he did bypromising to give him a great deal of money for so doing. Do­ras complied with the proposal, and contrived matters so, that therobbers might murder him after the following manner: Certainof those robbers went up to the city, as if they were going toworship God, while they had daggers under their garments,and, by thus mingling themselves among the multitude, they slewJonathan J, and as this murder was never avenged, the robbers VOL. III. Z went « This Soemus is elsewhere mentioned [by Josephns in his own life, sect. II. asalso] by Dio Cassius and Tacitus, as Dr Hudson informs us. t This agrees with Josephus's frequent accounts elsewhere in his own Life,that Tiberias, and TaricheiE, and Gamala, were under this Agrippa junior, tillJustus, th6 son of Pistus, seized upon them for the Jews upon the breaking out ofthe u-ar. J This treacherous and barbarous murder of the good high.priest Jonathan, byr/ie contrivance of this wicked procurator Felix, was the immediate occasion ofthe ensuing murders by the Sicarii or ruffians, and one great cause of the follow,ing- horrid cruelties and miseries of the Jewish nation' as Josephus here sup.s; whose excellent reflection on the gross wickedness of that nation, as thect cause of their terrible destruction, is well worthy the attention of every