OCR Output 106 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. " though they had injured Mtthridates, yet if they preserved" his life, this benefit would be remembered by him to the ad-" vantage of those that gave it him ; but that if he were once" put to death, the king would not be at rest till he had made a«' great slaughter of the Jews that dwelt at Babylon ; to whose" safety we ought to have a regard, both on account of our re-" lation to them, and because, if any misfortune befal us, we have" no other place to retire to, since he hath gotten the flower of" their youth under him." By this thought, and this speech ofhis made in council, he persuaded them to act accordingly ; sdMithridates was let go. But, when he was got away, his wifereproached him, that although he was son-in-law to the king, he"neglected to avenge himself on those that had injured him, whilehe took no care about it, but was contented to have been made acaptive by the Jews, and to have escaped them ; and she bid him" either to go back like a man of courage, or else she sware by" the gods of their royal family, that she would certainly dissolve«' her marriage with him." Upon which, partly because hecould not bear the daily trouble of her taunts, and partly becausehe was afraid of her insolence, lest she should in earnest dissolveher marriage, he unwillingly, and against his inclinations, gottogether again as great an army as he could, and marched alongwith them, as himself thinking it a thing not to be borne anylonger, that he, a Parthian, should owe his preservation to theJews, when they had been too hard for him in the war. 7. But as soon as Anileus understood that Mithridates wasmarching with a great army against him, he thought it too igno­minious a thing to tarry about the lakes, and not to take thefirst opportunity of meeting his enemies, and he hoped to havethe same success, and to beat their enemies as they did before )as also he ventured boldly upon the like attempts. Accordinglyhe led out his army, and a great many more joined themselvesto that army, in order to betake themselves to plunder thepeople, and in order to terrify the enemy again by their numbers.But when they had marched ninety furlongs, while the road hadbeen through dry [and sandy] places, and about the midst of theday, they were become very thirsty ; and Mithridates appeared,and fell upon them, as they were in distress for want of water,-on which account, and on account of the time ot the day, they werenot able to bear their weapons. So Anileus and Lis men were putto an ignominious rout, while men in despair were to attack thosethat were fresh, and in good pKght; so great slaughter was made,and many ten thousand men fell. Now Anileus, and all thatstood iirm about him, ran away, as fast as they were able, into awood, and afforded Mithridates the pleasure of having gained a great