OCR Output 338 [book jx. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. punish the wicked, God foretold by his pro­phet, that his sons should reign over Israelfor *four generations. CHAP. VII. OF ATHALIAH's REIGN OVER JERUSALEM FOR SIX YEARS JHER SUBSEQUENT PUNISHMENT BY .IEHOIAOA THE HIGH-PRIEST, AND THE ACCESSION OF JEHOASH, SON OF AHA-Z1AH. WHEN Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab,heard of the death of her brotherJoram, and of her son Ahaziah, and of theroyal family, she endeavoured that none ofthe house of David might be left alive; butthat the family might be exterminated, thatno king might arise out of it afterward. Andshe supposed her sanguinary wishes werecompletely fulfilled. But one of Ahaziah'ssons escaped death after the followingmanner:—Ahaziah had a sister by the samefather, whose name was Jehosheba, and shewas married to the high-priest Jehoiada.She went into the king's palace, and foundJehoash, for that was the little child's name,who was not above a year old, among thosethat were slain, but concealed, with hisnurse.t So she took him into a secret bed­chamber, and shut him up there; and sheand her husband Jehoiada brought him upprivately in the temple, six years;J duringwhich time Athaliah reigned over Jerusalem,and the two tribes. Now, on the seventh year, Jehoiada com­municated this important matter to five of thecaptains of hundreds, and persuaded them toassist in the attempts he was making againstAthaliah, and to join with him in securing thekingdom to the child. He also received suchoaths from them as are proper to secure thosethat assist one another from the fear of dis­covery; and he was then of good hope thatthey should depose Athaliah. Now those men whom Jehoiada the priest had taken tobe his partners, went into all the country,and gathered together the priests, and theLevites, and the heads of the tribes out of it,and brought them to Jerusalem, to the high-priest. So he demanded the security of anoath of them to keep private whatsoever heshould discover to them; which requiredboth their silence and their assistance. Sowhen they had taken an oath, and hadthereby made it safe for him to speak, heproduced the child that he had brought up,of the family of David, and said to them,"This is your king, of that house which yonknow God hath foretold should reign overyou for all time to come. I exhort you,therefore, that one third part of you guardhim in the temple, and that a ||fourth guardkeep watch at all the gates, and that the nextpart of you keep guard at that gate whichopens and leads to the king's palace; and letthe rest of the multitude be unarmed in thetemple; and let no armed person go into thetemple, but the priest only." He also orderedthat a part of the priests and the Levitesshould be about the king himself, and be aguard to him, with their drawn swords, andto kill that man immediately, whoever hemight be, that should be so bold as to enterarmed into the temple; and bade them beafraid of nobody, but persevere in guardingthe king. So these men obeyed what thehigh-priest advised them to; and declaredthe reality of their resolution by their actions.Jehoiada also opened that armoury whichDavid had made in the temple, and distri­buted to the captains of hundreds, as alsoto the priests, and Levites, all the spears,quivers, and other weapons, which it con­tained; and set them armed in a circle roundabout the temple, so as to touch one another'shands; by that means excluding those fromentering that ought not to enter. So they * This promise was fulfilled, in the persons of Jehoahaz,Jehoash, Jeroboam II. and Zachariah. t Some interpreters are of opinion, that Joash was notthe real son of Ahaziah, (in whom the race of Solomon, ina direct line, was extinct,) but properly the son of Na­than, and only called Ahaziah's, because he succeededhim in the throne; for had he been Ahaziah's true son,and Athaliah's grandson, why might not she have declaredhim king, and during his minority at least, taken the ad­ministration into her own hands? But therefore she ex­ercised her cruelty, as they say, in destroying the princes related to Ahaziah, because she was unwilling to have thekingdom go into another branch of David's family. Butnotwithstanding these reasons, and the authority of thosewho produce them, in the second books both of Kingsand Chronicles, we find this Jehoash so frequently calledthe son of Ahaziah, the king's son, &c. without anymanner of restriction, that we cannot be persuaded to lookout for any other father for him. B. t 2 Kings xi. 3. B A third part, Hebrew and Septuagint