OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 123 is too soft to sustain the action of the plough; but chap.the gom, a small grain, not unlike the millet or co-.riander seed, supplies the ordinary food of the people;and the use of bread is confined to the prince andhis nobles. Yet the vintage is more plentiful thanthe harvest; and the bulk of the stems, as well asthe quality of the wine, display the unassisted powersof nature. The same powers continually tend toovershadow the face of the country with thick forests;the timber of the hills, and the flax of the plains,contribute to the abundance of naval stores; thewild and tame animals, the horse, the ox, and thehog, are remarkably prolific, and the name of thepheasant is expressive of his native habitation on thebanks of the Phasis. The gold mines to the southof Trebizond, which are still worked with sufficientprofit, were a subject of national dispute betweenJustinian and Chosroes; and it is not unreasonableto believe, that a vein of precious metal may beequally diffused through the circle of the hills, al­though these secret treasures are neglected by thelaziness, or concealed by the prudence, of the Min-grelians. The waters, impregnated with particlesof gold, are carefully strained through sheep-skins orfleeces; but this expedient, the ground-work per­haps of a marvellous fable, affords a faint image ofthe wealth extracted from a virgin earth by thepower and industry of ancient kings. Their silverpalaces and golden chambers surpass our belief; butthe fame of their riches is said to have excited theenterprising avarice of the Argonauts*. Traditionhas affirmed, with some colour of reason, that Egyptplanted on the Phasis a learned and polite colony, XXXV. * Pliny, Hist , Natur. 1 . xxxiii. 15. The gold and silver mines of Colchos at­tracted the Argonauts (Strab. 1. i. p. 77)- The sagacious Chardin could find nogold in mines, rivers, or elsewhere. Yet a Mingrelian lost his hand and foot forshowing some specimens at Constantinople of native gold.