OCR Output 1290 VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA. describing his journey from Rome to Captia, com­plains of the extremely hilly character of the road inapproaching Sotia. (Lucil. Fragm. iii. 6, ed. Ger-lach.) Even in the time of Horace, as we learnfrom his well-known description of the journey toBrandusium, it was customary fur travellers to con­tinue their route from Forum Appii by water, em­barking at that point on the canal through thePontine Marshes (Hor. Sat. i. 5. 11, Sec), liutthevery existence of this canal renders it probable thatthere was at that time a road by the side of it, aswe know was the case in Strata's time, notwithstand­ing which he tells us that the canal was much usedby travellers, who made the voyage in the night,and thus trained time. (Strab. v. p. 233.) It will he convenient to divide the description ofthe Appian Way, as it existed under the Roman Em­pire, and is given in the Itineraries, into severalportions. The first of the.se from Rome to Capuawas the main trunk line, upon which all its branchesand extensions depended. This will require to bedescribed in more detail, as the most celebrated andfrequented of all the Roman highways. 1. Pmm Rome to Capua. The stations given in the Antonine Itinerary are:— From Rome to Aricia (Larkcia) - - - xvi. m.p. Ties Tabernae - xvii.Appii Forum - x. Tarracina (Terraeina) - xviii.Fundi (Fondi) - - - xvi, (xiii.)Formiae (Mola di Gaeta) xiii.AIinturnac(near 7Y«y/e7/o) ix.Sinnessa (Mondragone) - ix.Captia (Sfa Maria) - - xvi.(xxvi.) The above stations are for tlie most part wellknown, and admit of no doubt. Those in the neigh­bourhood of the Pontine Marshes have indeed givenrise to much confusion, but are in fact to be easilydetermined. Indeed, tlie line of the road beingalmost perfectly straight from Rome to Tarracinarenders the investigation of the distances a matter oflittle difficulty. The Jerusalem Itinerary (p, 611) subdivides the same distance as follows: Rome to Ad Nonum (mntatio) - - ix. m.p. Aruia (civitas) - - - - vii. SponsaeorAd Sponsas (inutatio) xix. Appii Forum (do.) - - - - vii. (xii.?) Ad Medias (do.) - - - - ix. Tarracina (civitas) - x. Fundi (do.) - - - - xiii. Formiae (do.) ----- xii. Minturnae (do.) - - - - ix. Sinnessa (do.) - - - - - ix. Pons Campanos (mutatio) - ix. Ad Octavum (do.) - - - ix. Capua (civitas) - - - viii. The intermediate stations were (as they are ex­pressly called in the Itinerary itself) mere Mutationes,or posthouses, where relays of horses were kept. Thedetermination of their position is therefore of no in­terest, except in connection with the distances given,which vary materially from those of the other Itine­rant, though the total distance from Rome to Capua(I2*> miles) is the same in both. The Appian Way issued from the Porta Capena,in the Servian walls of Rome, about half a mile out­side of which it separated from the Via Latina, sothat the two roads passed through different gates inthe walls of Aurelian. That by which the Via Appiafinally quitted Rome was known as the Porta Appia; it is now called the Porta S. S*bastia*o. TVmilestone on the road stood about 120 yard*. -y^s>-*this gate: the distances always continue; *»*measured from the old Porta Capena. The iwi.«za31 and tombs which bordered the Via Appa a ira:portion of it which lay between the two gates, scr in­scribed in the article Roma, p. 831. It wu *ra-rently in this part of its course, just ontwdt moriginal city, that it was spanned by three tr.nn^-raarches, erected in honour of Drusus (the father*; a»emperor Claudius), Trajan, and L. Vera*. Oa*of these still remains, just within the P*ita S.$bmtiano, which, from its plain and ur.ad-jrned *rn? 4architecture, is pmbably that of Drusoa. Or.*i«?the Porta Appia the road descends to a Mrsai! sr^dor brook, now calW AcowitacruL, which it owa («ra bridge less than half a mile from the cane: IBtrifling stream is identified, on good etocldos.the river AI mo, celebrated for the peculiar mr~irites with which it was connected [Almo].distance beyond this the road makes a ct-a.-virrc*bend, and ascends a bank or ridge before it reactsthe second milestone. Prom that point it is earnedin a straight line direct to the remain* of Bm tthe foot of the Alban Hills, running the ws*xe n*along a slightly elevated bank or ridge*, fiemea atlprobability by a very ancient current ci u~i rthe Alban Mount. This long, straight hoe «atstretching across the Campngna. and ^C9vs4throughout by the remains of tombs and razz* ■»other buildings, is, even at the present day. g?* «*the most striking features in the neirhbroraonfi 4Rome, and, when the edifices which bordered 3 *wstill perfect, must have constituted a nrngaii^sapproach to the Imperial City. The whole usx »been recently cleared and carefully examinee, hadescribed in detail by the Car. Canina ( is rfc*nali dtll' Institute di Corrifpondenza Arr^oUynfor 1852 and 1853; and more briery by Des;v-_-*s,F.&sai sur la Topographic dm /.uttMtm. 4ta fam,1854, pp. 92— 130. We can here nteouocociTsssa*of the most interesting of the numerous inosinavuthat have been thus brousbt to lignt, as nt ssthose previously known and celebrated. On the right of the road, shortly after UWBfthe A lino, are the remains of avast sepnl- hrt. w±±:now serve to support tlie tavern or Osteria JrUA<^ms-taccio; this is clearly identified by the insert-asdiscovered there in 1773, as the monomer.t -t! Aas-scantina, a freed man of Domitiaa. and cf hi? v^»Priscilla, of which Statins has left o§ in a» af mipoems a derailed description (Stat. SiSc. v. I). Chthe left of the road, almost exactly 3 eu.Ws r=iRome, is the most celebrated of all the m-xx-"--"3of this kind, the massive sepulchre of Cvc-m *ie-tella, the dauphter of Q. Meteilus Creticav a*dof Crassus the triumvir. Converted into ain the middle ages, this tower-like monument is r.-iin remarkable preservation, and, from its c t -aposition, is a conspicuous object from all paa» 4the surrounding country. It u» powtlariT stcwi atthe Capo di Bore, from the bncranmm wLtri »vaa^as an ornament in the frieze, (A view Jmarkable nionnment is given in the articie fc^i.p. 822.) Before reaching the Capo 'hroad passes some extensive remains of b*uicu^% <athe left, which appear to bare termed part a« a*imperial villa constructed by the emperor Mixers :axattached to which are the remains of a errr/as,the work of the same emperor, and which, ffjosta*remarkably perfect condition, have thrown caci feea*