OCR Output 372 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIV. the simplicity of the civil law was never clouded by thelong and intricate entails which confine the happinessand freedom of unborn generations.C'u'iCil'i» Conquest and the formalities of law established theuse of codicils. If a Roman was surprised by death in aremote province of the empire, he addressed a short epistleto his legitimate or testamentary heir; who fulfilled withhonour, or neglected with impunity, this last request,which the judges before the age of Augustus were notauthorized to enforce. A codicil might be expressed inany mode, or in any language; but the subscription offive witnesses must declare that it was the genuine com^position of the author. His intention, however laudable,was sometimes illegal; and the invention of Jidei-com-missa, or trusts, arose from the struggle between naturaljustice and positive jurisprudence, A stranger of Greeceor Africa might be the friend or benefactor of a childlessRoman, but none, except a fellow^citizen, could act ashis heir. The Voconian law, which abolished femalesuccession, restrained the legacy or inheritance of a wo­man to the sum of one hundred thousand sesterces ;r andan only daughter was condemned almost as an alien inher father's house. The zeal of friendship, and parentalaffection, suggested a liberal artifice: a qualified citizenwas named in the testament, with a prayer or injunctionthat he would restore the inheritance to the person forwhom it was truly intended. Various was the conductof the trustees in this painful situation: they had swornto observe the laws of theircountry, but honour promptedthem to violate their oath; and if they preferred theirinterest under the mask of patriotism, they forfeited theesteem of every virtuous mind. The declaration of Au­gustus relieved their doubts, gave a legal sanction to con­fidential testaments and codicils, and gently unravelledthe forms and restraints of the republican jurisprudence.5 'Dion Cassius (tom. 2. lib. 56. p. 814. with Reimar's Notes) specifies in Greekmoney the 6Um of twenty-five thousand drachms. * 1■he revolutions of the Roman laws of inheritance are finely, though sometimesfaucifully, deduced by Montesquieu. (lispiit. des LoU, lib. s!7.) • *'