OCR Output SIO T.HE DECLINE AND FALL hundred miles of her capital. The fate of the East was decided in.two great hattles; so similar in almost every circumstance, that wecan scarcely distinguish them from each other, except by observingthat the first was fought near Antioch'5, and the second nearEmesa6S. In both, the queen of Palmyra animated the armies byher presence, and devolved the execution of her orders on Zabdas,who had already signalized his military talents by the conquest ofEgypt. The numerous forces of Zenobia, consisted for the mostpart of light archers, and of heavy cavalry clothed in completesteel. The Moorish and Illyrian horse of Aurelian, were unable tosustain the ponderous charge of their antagonists. They fled inreal cur affected disorder, engaged the Palmyrenians in a laboriouspursuit, harassed them by a desultory combat, and at length dis足comfited this impenetrable but unwieldy body of cavalry. Thelight infantry, in the mean time, when they had-exhausted theirquivers, remaining without protection against a closer onset, exposedtheir naked sides to the swords of the legions. Aurelian had chosenthese veteran troops, who were usually stationed on the UpperDanube, and whose valour had been severely tried in the Alemannicwar67. After the defeat of Emesa, Zenobia found it impossible tocollect a third army. As far as the frontier of Egypt, the nationssubject to her empire had joined the standard of the conqueror, whodetached the bravest of his generals to possess himself of the Egyp足tian provinces. Palmyra was the last resource of the widow of Ode-nathus. She retired within the walls of her capital, made everypreparation for a vigorous resistance, and declared with the intrepi足dity of a heroine, that the last moment of her reign and of her lifeshould be the same. The state of Amid the barren deserts of Arabia, a few cultivated spots rife likeislands out of the sandy ocean. Even the name of Tadmor, or Palmyra,by its signification in the Syriac as well as in the Latin language, de足noted the multitude of palm trees which afforded shade and verdure to 2 that