OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 411 ferent from one another; for the word Sabbath in the Jewishlanguage denotes rest from all sorts of work; hut the wordSabbo, as he affirms, denotes among the Egyptians the maladyof a bubo in the groin. 3. This is that novel account which the Egyptian Apiongives us concerning the Jews' departure out of Egypt, and isno hetter than a contrivance of his own. But why shouldwe wonder at the lies he tells us about our forefathers, whenhe affirms them to be of Egyptian original, when he lies alsoabout himself? for although he was born at Oasis in Egypt,he pretends to be, as a man may say, the top man of all theEgyptians; yet does he forswear his real country and pro­genitors, and, by falsely pretending to be born at Alexandria,cannot deny the pravity of his family; for you see how justlyhe calls those Egyptians whom he hates and endeavors toreproach; for had he not deemed Egyptians to be a name ofgreat reproach, he would not have avoided the name of anEgyptian himself; as we know that those who brag of theirown countries value themselves upon the denomination theyacquire thereby, and reprove such as unjustly lay claimthereto. As for the Egyptians' claim to be of our kindred,they do it on one of the following accounts : — I mean eitheras they value themselves upon it, and pretend to bear thatrelation to us; or else as they would draw us in to be par­takers of their own infamy. But this fine fellow Apion seemsto broach this reproachful appellation against us, [that wewere originally Egyptians,] in order to bestow it on theAlexandrians as a reward for the privilege they had givenhim of being a fellow-citizen with them : he also is apprisedof the ill-will the Alexandrians bear to those Jews who aretheir fellow-citizens, and so proposes to himself to reproachthem, although he must thereby include all the other Egyp­tians also; while in both cases he is no better than animpudent liar. 4. But let us now see what those heavy and wicked crimesare which Apion charges upon the Alexandrian Jews. " Theycame," says he, "out of Syria, and inhabited near the tem­pestuous sea, and were in the neighborhood of the dashing