OCR Output 430 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. [book XII. for that behaviour. I will set down presentlythe epistles themselves, which he wrote tohis generals concerning them: but will first f>roduce the testimony of Polybius of Mega-opolis: for thus does he speak, in the six­teenth book of his history, "Now Scopas,the general of Ptolemy's army, went in hasteto the superior parts of the country, and inthe winter time overthrew the nation of theJews." He also saith in the same book,"When Scopas was conquered by Antiochus,Antiochus received Batanea, Samaria, Abila,and Gadara: and that, some time afterwards,there came in to him those Jews that inhabit­ed near that temple which was called Jeru­salem: concerning which although I havemore to say, and particularly concerning thepresence of God about that temple, yet do Iput off that history till another opportunity."This it is which Polybius relates. But wewill return to the series of the history: whenwe have first produced the epistles of kingAntiochus. KING ANTIOCHUS, TO PTOLEMY, SENDETH GREET­ING,i "Since the Jews, upon our first entranceon their country, demonstrated their friend­ship towards us; and when we came to theircity (Jerusalem) received us in a splendidmanner; and came to meet us with theirsenate; and gave abundance of provisions toour soldiers, and to the elephants; and joinedwith us in ejecting the garrison of the Egyp­tians, that were in the citadel; we havethought fit to reward them, and to retrievethe condition of their city, which hath beengreatly depopulated by such accidents ashave befallen its inhabitants, and to bringthose that have been scattered abroad backto the city. And, in the first place, we havedetermined, on account of their piety towardsGod, to bestow on them, as a pension, for^heir sacrifices of animals, that are fit for sa­crifice; for wine, and oil, and frankincense,the value of twenty thousand pieces of sil­ver: and six sacred artabae of fine flour:with one thousand four hundred and sixtymedimni of wheat; and three hundred andseventy-five medimni of salt. And these pay­ments I would have fully paid them as I havesent orders to you. I would also have thework about the temple finished, and the cloisters; and if there be any thing else thatought to be rebuilt. And for the materials ofwood, let them be brought out of Judea, andout of the other countries, and out of Liba-nus, tax free: and the same I would have ob­served as to those other materials which willbe necessary in order to render the templemore glorious. And let all of that nation liveaccording to the laws of their own country:and let the senate, and the priests, and thescribes of the temple, and the sacred singers,be discharged from poll-money, and thecrown-tax; and other taxes also. And thatthe city may the sooner recover its inhabit­ants, I grant a discharge from taxes for threeyears to its present inhabitants; and to suchas shall come to it until the month Hyperbe-reteus. We also discharge them for the (u-ture from a third part of their taxes: that thelosses they have sustained may be repaired.And all those citizens that have been carriedaway, and are become slaves, we grant themand their children their freedom; and giveorder that their substance be restored to,them." Antiochus also published a decree, through-all his kingdom, in honour of the temple:which contained what follows:— "It shall be lawful for no foreigner to comewithin the limits of the temple round about:which thing is forbidden also to the Jews, un­less to those who, according to their own cus­tom, have purified themselves. Nor let anyflesh of horses, or of mules, or of asses, bebrought into the city, whether they be wildor tame: nor that of leopards or foxes, orhares: and in general, that of any animalwhich is forbidden for the Jews to eat. Nor*let their skins be brought into it: nor let any-such animal be bred up in the city. Letthem only be permitted to use the sacrificesderived from their forefathers: with whichthey have been obliged to make acceptableatonements to God. And he that transgress-eth any of these orders, let him pay to the Kriests three thousand drachmae of silver."loreover this Antiochus bare testimony toour piety and fidelity, in an epistle of his,when he was informed of a sedition in Phry-gia and Lydia, at which time he was in thesuperior provinces; wherein he commandedZeuxis, the general of his forces, and hismost intimate friend, to send some of our ua­