OCR Output 158 .~ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLI. which was kindled during his absence in his own camp."Disorder and disobedience were the common malady ofthe times: the genius to command, and the virtue toobey, resided only in the mind of Belisarius.Reign and Although Theodatus descended from a race of heroes, WAR k DOSS of Theoda- he was ignorant of the art, and averse to the dangers, ofkicking°fwar. Although he had studied the writings of PlatoaUd' 534 anc* Tally, philosophy was incapable of purifying hisOctober, mind from the basest passions, avarice and fear. He A. D. 536 August. 'had purchased a sceptre by ingratitude and murder: atthe first menace of an enemy, he degraded his own ma­jesty, and that of a nation, which already disdained theirunworthy sovereign. Astonished by the recent exam­ple of Gelimer, he saw himself dragged in chains throughthe streets of Constantinople; the terrors which Belisa­rius inspired, were heightened by the eloquence of Peter,the Byzantine ambassador ; and that bold and subtle ad­vocate persuaded him to sign a treaty, too ignominious tobecome the foundation of a lasting peace. It was stipu­lated, that, in the acclamations of the Roman people,the name of the emperor should be always proclaimedbefore that of the Gothic king; and that as often as thestatue of Theodatus was erected in brass or marble, thedivine image of Justinian should be placed on its righthand. Instead of conferring, the king of Italy was re­duced to solicit, the honours of the senate; and the con­sent of the emperor was made indispensable before hecould execute, against a priest or senator, the sentenceeither of death or confiscation. The feeble monarch re­signed the possession of Sicily; offered, as the annualmark of his dependance, a crown of gold, of the weightof three hundred pounds; and promised to supply, atthe requisition of his sovereign, three thousand Gothicauxiliaries for the service of the empire. Satisfied with * Procopius (Vandal. lib. 2. c. 14, 15.) so clearly relates tbe retai n of Belisariusinto Sicily, (p. 146. edit. Hoescbelii) that I am astonisbed at the strange misappre­hension and reproaches of a learned critic. (CEuvres de la Mothe le Vayer, torn. 8. p. 162, 163.)