OCR Output *oa NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. a more recent settlement than some one previouslyexisting in the same neighbourhood; and that thisdiil not refer merely to the parent city of Cumae, isproved by the fact that we find mention (thoughonly at a comparatively late period) of a place calledPai-aepolis or " the Old City." (Liv. viii. 22.)But the relations between the two are very obscure.No Greek author mentions Pslaepulis, of the existenceof which we should he ignorant were it not for Livy,who tells us that it was not far from the site of Nea­polis. From the passage of Strabo above cited, itseems clear that this was the original settlementof the Cumaean colonist*; and that the name ofNeapolis was given to the later colony of Chalci-dians and others who established themselves on a siteat no great distance from the former one. A dif­ferent version of its history, but of much moredubious authority, is cited by Fhilargyrius fromthe historian Lutatius, according to which the Cu-inaeans abandoned their first colony from an appre­hension lest it should eclipse the parent city, hut werecommanded by an oracle to restore it, and gave tothe colony thus founded anew the name of Neapolis.(Philargyr. ad Georg. iv. 564.) The original nameof Palaepolis (which obviously could not be so de­signated until after the foundation of the new city)apjicars to have been Parthenope (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9;Philargyr. lc), a name which is used by the Romanptets as a poetical appellation of Neapolis. (Virg.Georg. iv. 564; Ovid, Met. xv. 711, &c.) Ste-phatius. of Byzantium notices Parthenope as a cityof Opicia (the ancient designation of Campania);but it is singular enough that both he and Strabocall it a colony of the Rhodians. without mentioningeither the Chalcidians or Cumaeans. (Steph. B.t. v.; .Strab. xiv. p. 654.) On the other hand, Ly-cophron alludes to the place where the Siren Par­thenope was cast on shore, by the name of Falerum(♦aAfjpoo Tvpais, Lycophr. A lex. 717); and Ste-phanus also says that Phalerum was a city ofOpicia, the tame which was afterwards called Nea­polis. (Steph. B. *. r. ♦aA.r/poi'.) The name ofFalerum has a Tyrrhenian or Pelasgic aspect; andit is not improbable, as suggested by Abcken (3/i'f-re/ Italien, p. 110), that there was originally a Tyr­rhenian settlement on the Hpot. The legendaryconnection of the Siren Parthenope with the site orneighbourhood of Neapolis was well established, anduniversally received; hence Dionysius designates thecity as the abode of Parthenope; and Strabo tells usthat even in his time her tomb was still shownthere, and games celebrated in her honour. (Strab.v. p. 246; Dionys. Per. 358; Eustath. ad be.;Plin. iii. 5. a. 9.) The site of the original settlement, or Old City(Palaepolis), is nowhere indicated, but it seems mostprobable that it stood on the hill of Pausilypus orJ'otilijM}, a long ridge of moderate elevation, whichsejiarates the bay of I'ozzuoli or Baiae from that ofXajilc* itself. The new town, on the contrary, ad­joined the river Sebellms, a small stream still calledthe Scbeto, and must, therefore, have occupied thesame site with the more easterly portion of themodern city of Naplet. (Abcken, ilittd Italien,p. Ill; Niebuhr, voL iii. p. 179.) The latter cityseems rapidly to have risen to great prosperity, and,in great measure, eclipsed the older settlement; butit is clear from Livy that Palaepolia continued tosubsist by the side of the new coluuy, until they bothfell under the dominion of the Samnites. It does notappear that either the old or the new city was reduced by force of arms by the Campanian conqueror!; theyseem rather to have entered into a compromise withthem, and admitted a body of the Campaniam lathe rights of citizenship, as well as to a share of thegovernment (Strab. v. p. 246.) But notwith­standing this, the Greek element still greatly pre­dominated; and both Palaepolia and NeapoUs were,according to Livy, completely Greek cities at tl>*time when they first came into contact with Ricre.nearly a century after the conquest of Campania bythe Samnites. (Liv. viii. 22.) On that occasion the Palaepolitaus, who had hadthe temerity to provoke the hostility of Rome by ex­cursions upon the neighbouring Campaniana, altrmedat the declaration of war which followed (b.c 328),admitted within their walls a garrison of 2000troops from Nola, and 4000 Samnites; and werethus enahled to withstand the arms of the cufsojPublilius Philo, who occupied a post between the twocities so as to prevent all communication betweenthem, while he laid regular siege to Palaepuli*.This was protracted into the following year; but a£length the Palaepolitana became weary at" their Ssun-nite allies, and the city was betrayed into the haaiaof the Romans by Charilaus and Nymphius, two ofthe chief citizens. (Liv. viii. 22, 23.'25, 26.) TtoNeapolitans would appear to have followed their ex­ample without offerjng any resistance: and thia cir­cumstance may explain the fact that while Pnbhlhscelebrated a triumph over the Palaepolitaus (Lit.viii. 26; Fast. Capit.), the Neapolitans were admiuedto peace on favourable terms, and their hberturasecured by a treaty (foedua SeapoliUmvm, Liv. &c)From this time all mention of Palaepolis diaaiipraxafrom history. Livy tells us that the chief authority,which appears to have been previously enjoyed bythe older city, was now transferred to Neapolu: andit is probable that the former town sank graduallyinto insignificance, while the community or " papa­ins" was merged in that of Neapolis. So compsrterywas this the case, that Dionysius, in relating the com­mencement of this very war, speaks only of the Nea­politans (Dionys. Kxc. Leg. pp. 2314—2319); whiteLivy, evidently following the language of the oUerannalists, distinguishes them from the Palaepuutaa*.though he expressly tells us that they funned onlyone community (" duabus urbibus populus idem ha-bitabat," Liv. viii. 22). From this time Neapolis became, in fact, a Earndependency of Rome, though retaining the honour -able title of an allied state (fordrrata ciritnj). andenjoying tbe protection of the powerful republic,with but a small share of the burdens usually throwsupon its dependent allies. So favourable, indeoi,was the condition of the Neapolitans under tbnrtreaty that, at a later period, when all the cities) ofItaly obtained the Roman franchise, they, as well aathe Heracleans, wero long unwilling to acrtpt tboproffered boon. (Cicpro Halb. 8,24.) Hence it ■> o»wonder that they continued throughout faithful to tlxRoman alliance, though more than once tbrratrcnlby hostile armies. In B. c. 280. Pyrrhua appnarli<dthe walls of Neapolis, with the view of makinc him­self master of tbe city, hnt withdrew without ac­complishing his purpose (Zonar. viii. 4); and dlthe Second Punic VVar, Hannibal, though L» re­peatedly ravaged iU territory, was deterred by lb*strength of its fortifications from assailing the i .ivitself. (Liv. xxiii. 1, 14. 15, xxiv. 13.) Lik. lt»other maritime allies of Rome, the Neapolitans con­tinued to furnish ships and laihxi for tbe Rotoaa