OCR Output 118 THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS GRACCHUS. [Book IV. the senate—the arbitrary fixing of the functions of thetwo consuls on each occasion—was not withdrawn from it; butthe indirect pressure hitherto exercised in this way over thesupreme magistrates was neutralized by the fact, that thesenate was instructed to settle these functions before theconsuls concerned were elected. With unrivalled activity,lastly, Gaius concentrated the most varied and most com­plicated functions of government in his own person. Hehimself watched over the distribution of grain, selected thejurymen, founded the colonies in person notwithstandingthat his magistracy legally chained him to the city, regulatedthe highways and concluded building-contracts, led the discus­sions of the senate, settled the consular elections—in short,he accustomed the people to the fact that one man wasforemost in all things, and threw the lax and lame ad­ministration of the senatorial college into the shade by thevigour and dexterity of his personal rule. Gracchus interfered with the jurisdiction, still more ener­getically than with the administration, of the senate. Wehave already mentioned that he set aside the senators fromtheir ordinary judicial functions; the same course was takenwith the jurisdiction, which the senate as the supreme admi­nistrative board assumed in exceptional cases. Undersevere penalties he prohibited—apparently in his renewalof the law de provocatione*—the appointment of extraordinarycommissions of high treason by decree of the senate, such asthat which after his brother's murder had sat in judgmenton his adherents. The effect of these measures was, that thesenate wholly lost the power of control, and retained only somuch of administration as the head of the state thought fitto leave to it. But these organic measures were not enough;the governing aristocracy for the time being was also directlyassailed. It was a mere act of revenge, which assigned re­trospective effect to the last-mentioned law, and by virtueof it compelled Publius Popillius—the aristocrat who afterthe death of Nasica, which had occurred in the interval,was chiefly obnoxious to the democrats—to leave thecountry. It is remarkable that this proposal was onlycarried by eighteen to seventeen votes in the assembly ofthe tribes—a sign how much the influence of the aristocracystill availed with the multitude, at least in questions of a per- This and the law ne quis iudicio circumveniatur may have been identual. ^