OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 63 on the Tigris. Disorders of this sort were permanentfeatures of the Asiatic empire: the provinces under theirpartially or wholly independent satraps were in continualrevolt, as was also the capital with its insubordinate and re­fractory populace resembling those of Rome and Alexandria.The whole pack of neighbouring kings—those of Egypt,Armenia, Cappadocia, Pergamus—incessantly interfered inthe affairs of Syria and fostered disputes as to the succes­sion, so that civil war and the division of the sovereignty inpoint of fact among two or more pretenders became almoststanding calamities of the country. The Roman pro­tecting power, if it did not instigate these neighbours, wasan inactive spectator. In addition to all this the newParthian empire from the eastward pressed hard on the aliensnot merely with its material power, but with the wholesuperiority of its national language and religion and of itsnational military and political organization. This is not yetthe place for a description of the revived empire of Cyrus; itis sufficient to mention generally the fact., that powerful aswas the influence of Hellenism in its composition, the Parthianstate, as compared with that of the Seleucidae, was based ona national and religious reaction, and that the old Iranianlanguage, the order of the Magi and the worship of Mithra,the oriental feudal constitution, the cavalry of the desertand the bow and arrow, first emerged there in renewedand triumphant opposition to Hellenism. The position ofthe kings of Syria in presence of all this was really pitiable.The family of the Seleucidas was by no means so enervatedas that of the Lagidas for instance, and some of them werenot deficient in valour and ability; they reduced it may beone or another of those numerous rebels, pretenders, andintermeddlers to order; but their dominion had so little ofa firm foundation that it was unable to impose even atemporary check on anarchy. The result was inevitable.The eastern provinces of Syria under their unprotected oreven insurgent satraps fell into subjection to the Parthians;Persia, Babylonia, Media were for ever severed from theSyrian empire; the new state of the Parthians reached onboth sides of the great desert from the Oxus and the HindooCoosh to the Tigris and the desert of Arabia—once more,like the Persian empire and all the older great states of Asia,a. pure continental monarchy, and once more, just like thePersian empire, engaged in perpetual feud on the one side