OCR Output 82 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. Citium: And being come up to the height of Salamis in Cy­prus, they engaged at one time a united force of Phoeniciansand Cyprians and Cilicians, both by land and sea. They gainedthe victory in both engagements: and being rejoined by thedetachment they had sent to Egypt, returned home. After this, the Lacedaemonians engaged in that which isknown by the name of the holy war; and having recoveredthe temple of Delphi, delivered it up to the Delphians. Butno sooner were they withdrawn, than the Athenians marchedout in their turn, retook it, and delivered it into the hands ofthe Phocians. At no great interval of time from hence, the Athenianstook the field against the Boeotian exiles, who had seized Or-chomenus and Chaeronaea, and some other cities of Boeotia.Their force, sent out upon this service, consisted of a thou­sand heavy-armed of their own with proportional quotas fromtheir allies, and was commanded by Tolmidas the son of Tol-maeus. Having taken and enslaved Chaeronaea, they placeda fresh garrison in it, and so withdrew. But upon theirmarch, they are attacked at Coronea by a body of men con­sisting of the Boeotian exiles sallying out of Orchomenus, join­ed by Locrians and the exiles from Euboea and others of theirpartizans. After a battle, the victory remained with the lat­ter, who made great slaughter of the Athenians, and tookmany prisoners. Upon this, the Athenians evacuated Boeotia,and to get the prisoners released consented to a peace. TheBoeotian exiles, and all others in the same circumstances,were by this re-settled in their old habitations, and recoveredtheir former liberty and rights. It was not a great while after these last occurrences thatEuboea revolted from the Athenians. And Pericles was nosooner landed upon that island with an Athenian army tochastise them, than news was brought him that " Megara alsohad revolted ; that the Peloponnesians were going to make anincursion into Attica; that the Athenian garrison had beenput to the sword by the Megareans*, excepting those who • This revolt of Megara, a little republic almost surrounded by the do­minions of Atbens, leagued closely with her, and under her protection, gave