OCR Output 554 [book XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ill, and yet was so unable to bear it, on ac­count of the fondness he had for her, that hecould not continue long in any one mind;but sometimes was angry at her, and some­times reconciled to ner: but by alwayschanging one passion for another, he wasstill in great uncertainty. And thus was heentangled between hatred and love; andwas frequently disposed to inflict punish­ment on her, for her insolence towards him:but being deeply in love with her, he wasnot able to get quit of this woman. Inshort, as he would gladly have her punished,so was he afraid lest, ere he were aware,he should, by putting her to death, bring aheavier punishment upon himself at thesame time. When Herod's sister and mother per­ceived that he was in this temper, with re­gard to Mariamne, they thought they hadnow an excellent opportunity of exercisingtheir hatred against her: and provokedHerod, by telling him such long stories andcalumnies about her, as might at once excitehis hatred and his jealousy. Now thoughhe willingly listened to their words, yet hadnot he courage enough to do any thing toher, as if he believed them. But still hebecame worse disposed to her: and theseill passions were more and more inflamedon both sides: while she did not hide herdisposition towards him; and he turned hislove to her, into wrath against her. Butwhen he was just going to put this matterpast all remedy, he heard the news, thatCaesar was the victor in the war; and thatAntony and Cleopatra were both dead; andthat he had conquered Egypt. Hereuponhe made haste to go to meet Caesar; andleft the affairs of his family in their presentstate. However Mariamne recommendedSohemus to him, as he was setting out onhis journey; and professed that she owedhim thanks for the care he had taken ofher; and asked of the king for him a placein the government: upon which an honour­able employment was bestowed upon himaccordingly. Now when Herod was come into Egypt,he was introduced to Caesar with great free­dom; as already a friend of his; and re­ceived very great favours from him. Forhe made him a present of those four hun­ dred *Galatians, who had been Cleopatra'sguards: and restored that country to himagain, which, by her means, had been takenaway from him. He also added to his king­dom, Gadara, and Hippos, and Samaria: and.besides those, the maritime cities, Gaza, andAthedon, and Joppa, and Strato's tower. Upon these new acquisitions, he grew moremagnificent; and conducted Caesar as far asAntioch. But upon his return, as much ashis prosperity was augmented by the foreignadditions that had been made him, so muchthe greater were the distresses that cameupon him in his own family; and chiefly inthe affair of his wife: wherein he formerlyappeared to have been most of all fortunate.For the affection he had for Mariamne wasno way inferior to the affections of such asare on that account celebrated in history;and this very justly. As for her, she was inother respects a chaste woman, and faithfulto him: yet was she somewhat rough by na­ture, and treated her husband imperiously;because she saw he was so fond of her, asto be enslaved by her. She did not alsoconsider seasonably with herself, that shelived under a monarchy, and that she wasat another's disposal: and accordingly wouldoften behave herself after a saucy mannerto him. Which yet he usually put off in ajesting way; and bore with moderation, andgood temper. She would also expose hismother and sister openly, on account of themeanness of their birth: and would speakunkindly of them. Insomuch that there wasbefore this a disagreement and unpardonablehatred among the women; and it was nowcome to greater reproaches of one anotherthan formerly. Which suspicions increased,and lasted a whole year after Herod returnedfrom Caesar. However, these misfortunes,which had been kept under some decencyfor a great while, burst out at once uponsuch an occasion as was now offered. Foras the king was one day, about noon, Jaindown on his bed to rest him; he called forMariamne, out of the great affection he hadalways for her. She came in accordingly;but would not lie down by him. And whenhe was very desirous of her company, sheshewed her contempt of him: and added, * Gauls.