OCR Output 320 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV. These Jews honoured Hyrcanus as their high priest, and king;as did all the Jewish nation that dwelt as far as Euphrates;which respect was very much to his satisfaction. But when hewas informed that Herod had received the kingdom, new hopescame upon him, as having been himself still of a kind dispositiontowards him, and expecting that Herod would bear in mindwhat favour he had received from him, and when he was uponhis trial, and when he was in danger that a capital sentence wouldbe pronounced against him, he delivered him from that danger,and from all punishment. Accordingly, he talked of that matterwith the Jews that came often to him with great affection; butthey endeavoured to retain him among them, and desired thathe would stay with them, putting him in mind of the kind officesand honours they did him, and that those honours they paid himwere not at all inferior to what they could pay to either their highpriests or their kings: and what was a greater motive to deter­mine him, they said, was this, that he could not have those dig­nities [in Judea] because of that maim in his body, which hadbeen inflicted on him by Antigonus; and that kings do not useto requite men for those kindnesses which they received whenthey were private persons, the height of their fortune makingusually no small changes in them. 3. Now although they suggested these arguments to him forhis own advantage, yet did Hyrcanus still desire to depart. He­rod also wrote to him, and persuaded him to desire of Phraates,and the Jews that were there, that they should not grudge himthe royal authority, which he should have jointly with himself,for that now was the proper time for himself to make him amendsfor the favours he had received from him, as having been broughtup by him, and saved by him also, as well as for Hyrcanus toreceive it. And as he wrote thus to Hyrcanus, so did he sendalso Saramallas, his ambassador, to Phraates, and many presentswith him, and desired him in the most obliging way, that hewould be no hinderance to his gratitude towards his benefactor.But this zeal of Herod's did not flow from that principle, butbecause he had been made governor of that country without hav­ing any just claim to it, he was afraid, and that upon reasons goodenough, of a change in his condition, and so made what hastehe could to get Hyrcanus into his power, or indeed to put himquite out of the way: which last thing he compassed afterward. 4. Accordingly, when Hyrcanus came, full of assurance, bythe permission of the king of Parthia, and at the expense of theJews, who supplied him with money, Herod received him withall possible respect, and gave him the upper place at public meet­ings, and set him above all the rest at feasts, and thereby deceivedhim. He called him his father; and endeavoured by all the