OCR Output 182 [Book IV. THE PEOPLES OF THE NORTH. Khine and the immediately threatened territory of the Allo-broges, a Roman army under Marcus Junius Silanus ap­peared in 645 in Southern Gaul. The Cimbri requestedthat land might be assigned to them where they mightpeacefully settle—a request which certainly could not begranted. The consul instead of replying attacked them; hewas utterly defeated and the Roman camp was taken. Thenew levies which were occasioned by this misfortune werealready attended with so much difficulty, that the senate pro­cured the abolition of the laws—probably proceeding fromGaius Gracchus—which limited the obligation to militaryservice in point of time (P. 111). But the Cimbri, insteadof following up their victory over the Romans, sent to thesenate at Rome to repeat their request for the assignment ofland, and meanwhile employed themselves, apparently, in thesubjugation of the surrounding Celtic cantons. Thus theRoman province and the new Roman army were left for themoment undisturbed by the Germans; but a new enemyarose in Gaul itself. The Helvetii, who had suffered muchin the constant conflicts with their north-eastern neighbours,felt themselves stimulated by the example of the Cimbri toseek in their turn for more quiet and fertile settlements inwestern Gaul, and had perhaps, even when the Cimbrianhosts marched through their land, formed an alliance withthem for that purpose. Now under the leadership of Divicothe forces of the Tougeni (position unknown) and of theTigorini (on the lake of Murten) crossed the Jura,* andreached the territory of the Nitiobroges (about Agen onthe Garonne). The Roman army under the consul LuciusCassius Longinus, which they here encountered, alloweditself to be decoyed by the Helvetii into an ambush, in whichthe general himself and his legate, the consular Gaius Piso,along with the greater portion of the soldiers met theirdeath; Gaius Popillius, the interim commander-in-chief ofthe force which had escaped to the camp, was allowed towithdraw under the yoke on condition of surrendering halfthe property which the troops carried with them and fur­ Defeat of Silanus. 109. Inroad ofthe Helve-tii intosouthernGaul. Defeat otLonginus. * The usual hypothesis, that the Tougeni and Tigorini had advanced at thesame time with the Cimbri into Gaul, cannot be supported by Strabo (vii.293), and is little in harmony with the separate part acted by the Helvetii.Our traditional accounts of this war are, besides, so fragmentary that, just asin the case of the Samnite wars, a connected historical narration can only layclaim to approsimate accuracy.