OCR Output NEONTEICHOS. NERIGOS. 419 Homeri (c 10), it was built eight years later thanCraw, as a protection against the Pelasgiana ofLarissx (Plin. v. 32; Herod, i. 149; Scyl. p.28; Steph. B. t. r.) Remains of this town, saysCrainer, ought to be sought for on the right bank ofthe Hermos, and above Quiscl-BUtar, on tho roadfrom Smyrna to Bergamak. [L. S.] NEONTEICHOS (N«o» tsTxoi), a fortress on thecoast of Thrace, mentioned by Scylax (p. 28) andbv Xcnophon (Anab. vii. 5. § 8), supposed to bethe modem AinadtjUc [T. H. D.] NEOPTO'LEJH TI;KRIS(N«ottoA^ouxi^os,Strab. vii. p. 306), a place on the NW. ooast of theEuxine, 120 stadia from the river Tyras, and thesame distance from Cremnisci {Anon. Peripl. p. 9),now Akkerman. [E. B. J.] NE'PETE (New-era Ptol.; Newira, Strab.: Elh.Nepeainas: Nepi), a city of Etruria, situated in thesouthern part of that province, at a distance of 30miles from Rome and 8 miles E. of Sutrium. Thereis no doubt that it was an ancient Etruscan town,though certainly not a city of the first rank, and wasprobably a dependency of Veii. Hence we meet withno mention of the name, any more than of its neigh­bour Sutrium, until after the tall of Veii; but fromthat period these two cities became places of muchimportance as the frontier fortresses of the Romandominion on the side of Etruria (I.iv. vi. 9). Thename of Nepete is first mentioned in b. o. 386, whenit was in alliance with Rome, and being attacked bythe Etruscans, sent to sue for assistance from theRomans. But before the military tribunes Valeriusand Furius could arrive to their support, the city hadsurrendered to the Etruscan arms, and was occupiedwith a strong garrison. It was, however, speedily re­taken, and the leaders of the party who had been in­strumental in bringing about the surrender wereexecuted (Liv. vi. 9, 10). A few years later a moreeffectual step was taken to secure its possession bysending thither a Roman colony. The establishmentof this is fixed by Livy in n.o. 383, while VelleinsFaterculus would date it 10 years later, or 17 yearsafter the capture of Rome by the Gauls (Liv. vi. 21;Veil. Pat. i. M). It was a Latin colony like most ofthose established at this period. In B.C. 297, Ne-prte U a^ain mentioned as one of the frontier townsen this side against the Etruscans (Liv. x. 14); butwith this exception we hear no more of it during thewars of the Romans in Etruria. In the Second PunicWar it was one of the twelve Latin colonies which de­clared themselves exhausted with the burdens of thewar, and unable to furnish any further supplies:for which it was punished, before the end of the war,by the imposition of double contributions (Liv. xxvii.9, xxix. 15). From this time Nepete seems to havesunk into the condition of a subordinate provincialtown. Like the other Latin colonies, it obtained theRoman franchise by the Lex Julia, in 11. c. 90, andbecame from thenceforth a municipium; which rankit appears to have retained under the Empire, thoughit is said in the Liber Coloniarnm to have received aenlony at the same time with that sent to Falerii(Feat. t.p. JfmicipMim,v. 127; Gruter./nser.p. 308.2. p. 441. 7; Lib. CoL p. 217; Zumpt, dt Colon,p. 337). Its existence as a municipal town through-oat the period of the Roman Empireis proved by in­scriptions ss well as by Pliny, Ptolemy, and the Ta­bula (Strab. v. p. 226: Plin. iii. 5. s.8; Ptol. iii. 1.§50; Tab. Pent.-, Orell. Inter. 879, 3991); but nomention occurs of it in history till after the fall ofthe Western Empire, when it figures in the Gothic wars as a place of some importance from its strengthas a fortress, and was one of the last strongholdsmaintained by the Goths against Nurses (Procop.B. G. iv. 34). It early became an episcopal sec, rdignity which it has retained without intermissiontill the present time, though now but an insignificanttown with about 1500 inhabitants. The only remains of antiquity now visible at A'epiare some ancient sepulchres hewn in the rock, andsome portions of the ancient walls, much resemblingin their construction those of Sutrium and Falerii.These are considered by Dennis as belonging to theancient Etruscan city; but it is more probable thatthey date only from the Roman colony. (Dennis'sEtruria, vol. i. p. 111; Nibby, Binlorni, vol. ii.p. 398.) [E. H. B.] NE'PHELIS (N«<p«Ait), a small town on thecoast of Cilicia, situated, according to Ptolemy (v. 8.§ 1), between Antioch and Anemurium; but if, aasome suppose, it be the same place as the Zea>e'A<oi>mentioned in the Stadiasmus Maris Magni (§§ 181,182), it ought to be looked for between Selinus andCelei ideris. Near the place was a promontory of theSame name, where, according to Livy (xxxiii. 20),the fleet of Antiochus the Great was stationed, when,after reducing the towns of Cilicia as far as Selinus,he was engaged in the siege of Coracesium, andwhere he received the ambassadors of the Rhodians.(Comp. Leake, Asia Minor, p. 119.) [L. S.] -M I'll KRIS (Nipepis), a natural fortress situ­ated on a rock, 180 stadia from the town of Car­thage. (Strab. xvii. p. 834.) . [E. B. J.] NEPTU'NIUS MOSS. [Pelorus.] NEQUI'NUM. [Narnia.] SEREAE, a tribe, mentioned with several others,who are equally unknown, by Pliny, and placed byhim in the neighbourhood of the Insula Pattalene,the modern Sauraihlrtin (vi. 20. s. 23). [V.] NERE'TUM, or NERITUM (mipuroi-, Ptol.iKlh. Neretinus: Nardil), a city of the Sallentini, inthe ancient Calabria, mentioned both by Ptolemyand Pliny among the inland towns of that people.Its name is also found in the Tabula, which fixesits position 29 M. P. from Manduria on the road toUxentum (Ugento), and 20 M. P. from the lattercity. These data enable us to identify it with cer­tainty with the modern town of Nardil, a con­siderable place about 9 miles S. of Gallipoli. Itis clear from Pliny that it was a town of municipalrank, and the same thing is confirmed by inscrip­tions; but there are no ancient remains at Nardo.(Plin. iii. 11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 76; Tab. Peut. ■Orell. Inter. 3108. Other inscriptions, with thename of Mutile, herit. published by Muratori,vol. ii. pp. 1113, 1120, and by Romanelli, vol. ii.pp. 49, 50, are probably spurious. See Orelli,138.) [E. H. B.] NE'RICUS. [Leucas.] NERIGOS. Pliny (iv. 16. s. 30), in speaking ofthe islands in the north of Britain.says that, accordingto some, Nerigos was the largest, and that from itpeople used to sail to Thule. As besides this pas­sage we have no other information, it is impossible,with absolute certainty, to say what island is meant;but as Norway is in Danish still called Norge, andin Swedish Norrtge, it is now generally assumedthat Nerigos is the modem Norway; the south­western headland of which, projecting into the sea,might easily lead tho ancients to the belief that it wasan island. In the same passage Pliny mentions theisland of Bergi, which may possibly be only the E E 2