OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 167 most probably, of fifty or an hundred pieces of gold IO'; nor could itbe exacted from the nearest of kin on the father's side lo*. Whenthe rights of nature and poverty were thus secured, it seemedreasonable, that a stranger, or a distant relation, who acquired anunexpected accession of fortune, should cheerfully resign a twentiethpart of it, for the benefit of the state ,0S. . ... Such a tax, plentiful as it must prove in every wealthy com- Suited to th«munity, was most happily suited to the situation of the Romans, manner"1!who could frame their arbitrary wills, according to the dictatesof reason or caprice, without any restraint from the modern fettersof entails and settlements. Even the partiality of paternal affection,often lost its influence over the stern patriots of the commonwealth,and the dissolute nobles of the empire; and if the father bequeathedto his son the fourth part of his estate, he removed all groundof legal complaint,oS. But a rich childless old man was a do­mestic tyrant, and his power increased with his years and in­firmities. A servile crowd, in which he frequently reckonedprætors and consuls, courted his smiles, pampered his avarice, ap­plauded his follies, served his passions, and waited with impatiencefor his death. The arts of attendance and flattery were formed intoa most lucrative science, those who professed it acquired a peculiarappellation; and the whole city, according to the lively descripi-tions of satire, was divided between two parties, the hunters andtheir game ,07. Yet while so many unjust and extravagant willswere every day dictated by cunning, and subscribed by folly, a fewwere the result of rational esteem and virtuous gratitude. Cicero^who had so often defended the. lives and fortunes of his fellow-citizens, was rewarded with legacies to the amount of an hundredand seventy thousand pounds 108; nor do the friends of the youngerPliny, seem to have been less generous to that amiable orator ,0'.Whatever was the motive of the testator, the treasury claimed, with"out distinction, the twentieth part of his estate? and in the course of