OCR Output Chap. IX.] CINNA AND SULLA. 339 attempted to dislodge Sulla; both remained immoveable intheir strong positions, even after Damasippus, sent byCarbo, had reinforced the relieving army with two legions. But while the war stood still in Etruria and in Latium, Successes otmatters came to a decision in the valley of the Po. There the Sultansthe general of the democracy, Gaius Norbanus, had hitherto ia uPPermaintained the ascendancy, had attacked Marcus Lucullus y'the legate of Metellus with superior force and compelledhim to shut himself up in Placentia, and had at lengthturned against Metellus in person. He encountered thelatter at Faventia, and immediately made his attack late inthe afternoon with his troops fatigued by their march; theconsequence was a complete defeat and the total breakingup of his corps, of which only about 1000 men returned toEtruria. On the news of this battle Lucullus sallied fromPlacentia, and defeated the division left behind to opposehim at Fidentia (between Piacenza and Parma). TheLucanian troops of Albinovanus deserted in a body: theirleader made up for his hesitation at first by inviting thechief officers of the revolutionary army to banquet withhim and causing them to be put to death; in generalevery one, who could do so, now concluded his peace.Ariminum with all its stores and treasures fell into thepower of Metellus; Norbanus embarked for Rhodes; thewhole land between the Alps and Apennines acknowledgedthe government of the Optimates. The troops hitherto Etruria ix>employed there were enabled to proceed to the attack of cupied byEtruria, the last province where their antagonists still keptthe Sullan*.the field. When Carbo received this news in the camp atClusium, he lost his resolution; although he had still a con­siderable body of troops under his orders, he secretlyescaped from his headquarters and embarked for Africa.Part of his abandoned troops followed the example whichtheir general had set, and went home; part of them weredestroyed by Pompeius: Carrinas gathered together theremainder and led them to Latium to join the army ofPraeneste. There no change had in the meanwhile takenplace; and the final dscision drew nigh. The troops ofCarrinas were not numerous enough to shake Sulla's posi­tion; the vanguard of the army of the oligarchical party,hitherto employed in Etruria, was approaching under Pom­peius : in a few days the net would be drawn tight aroundthe army of the democrats and the Sainnites.