OCR Output aN. 1375.] Ifi? ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. them. Now the attendants of Eglon wereignorant of what misfortune had befallen himfor a great while. But towards evening, fear­ing some uncommon accident had happened,they entered into his parlour, and when theyfound him dead, they were in great disorder,and knew not what to do. And before theguards could be got together, the multitudeof the Israelites came upon them. So thatsome of them were slain immediately, andsome were put to flight, and ran away towardthe country of Moab, in order to save them­selves. Their number was above ten thou­sand. The Israelites seized upon the ford ofJordan, and pursued them, and slew them;and many they killed at the ford; nor did oneof them escape out of their hands. And bythis means it was that the Hebrews freedthemselves from slavery under the Moabites.Ehud also was on this account dignified withthe government over all the multitude, anddied after he had held the government* eightyyears. He was a man worthy of commenda­tion, even besides what he deserved for theaforementioned act of his. After him Sham-gar,f the son of Anath, was elected for theirgovernor; but died in the first year of hisgovernment. : CHAP. V. OF THE OPPRESSION OF THE HEBREWS BY THE CANAANITESDURING TWENTY YEARS; AND THEIR EMANCIPATION BYBARAK AND DEBORAH, WHO RULED OVER THEM FORTYYEARS. ND now it wasJ that the Israelites, takingno warning by their former misfortunes * These 80 years for the government of Ehud, are ne­cessary to Josephus's usual large numbers, between theExodus and the building of the temple, of 592 or 612years; but not to the smaller number of 480 years,1 Kings vi. 1. which lesser number Josephus seems some­times to have followed. And since in the beginning of thenext chapter it is said by Josephus, that here was hardlya breathing for the Israelites before Jabin came and en­slaved them; it is highly probable that some of the copiesin his time had here only eight years, instead of 80; as hadthat of Theophilus of Antioch, Ad Autoyle, L. III. andthis most probably from his copy of Josephus- T Judg. iii. 31. t An. 1375. I! Judg. iv. 2. § From An. 1374 to 1354. ** The words Prophet and Prophetess are of very am­biguous signification in both Testaments; sometimes theydenote persons extraordinarily inspired by God, and en- voL. I.—NOS. 13 & 14 to amend their manners, and neither wor­shipping God, nor submitting to the lavcvwere brought under slavery again by Jabin,|jking of the Canaanites; and that before theyhad a short breathing after the slavery underthe Moabites. For this Jabin came out ofHazor, a city that was situate over the lakeSemechonitis; and had in pay three hundredthousand armed footmen, and ten thousandhorsemen; with no fewer than three thousandchariots. Sisera was the commander of allthis army, and was the principal person inthe king's favour. He so sorely beat theIsraelites when they fought with him, that hecompelled them to pay tribute. So they continued to undergo that hard­ship for§ twenty years, as not good enoughof themselves to grow wise by their misfor­tunes. God was willing also hereby the more'to subdue their obstinacy and ingratitudetowards himself. So when, at length, thejwere become penitent, and were so wise asto learn that their calamities arose from theircontempt of the laws, they besought Deborah,a certain prophetess,** whose name, in th<-Hebrew tongue, signifies a Bee, to pray toGod to take pity on them, and not to overlookthem now they were ruined by the Canaan­ites. So God granted them deliverance, andchose for their general one Barak, who wasof the tribe of Naphthali; and whose name inthe Hebrew tongue signifies Lightning. So Deborah sent for Barak, and bid himchoose out ten thousand young men to goagainst the enemy; because God had said,that that number was sufficient, and promisedthem victory. But when Barak said, he would dued with the power of working miracles and foretellingthings to come; and sometimes they are used for personsendued with special, though not miraculous gifts or graces,for the better understanding and explaining the word ofGod; and, of this sort, were the sons of the prophets, orsuch as were brought up in the schools of the prophet*.As, therefore, we read nothing of any miraculous actionthat Deborah did, she perhaps was only a woman of emi­nent holiness and prudence, and knowledge of the HolyScriptures, by which she was singularly qualified to judgethe people, i. e. to determine causes and controversiesamong them, according to the word of God. For thoughJabin oppressed th?m sorely, yet it was rather by rigoroustaxations, than infringing their laws, which he still sufferedto be administered by their own officers. And of this hemight take the less notice, because the supreme judicaturewas exercised by a woman, from whose power anc' authority, he thought there was no reason to apprehend anydanger; though this certainh gave her an opportunity cd" Oo