OCR Output 278 S P E E C II 0 F T I T 0 S [B. VI. house,1 there was a boy that, out of the thirst he was in, de­sired some of the Roman guards to give him their right handsas a security for his life, and confessed he was very thirsty.These guards commiserated his age, and the distress he wasin, and gave him their right hands accordingly. So he camedown himself, and drank some water, and filled the vessel hehad with him when he came to them with water, and thenwent off, and fled away to his own friends; nor could any ofthose guards overtake him; but still they reproached him forhis perfidiousness. To which he made this answer: — "Ihave not broken the agreement; for the security I had givenme was not in order to my staying with you, but only in orderto my coming down safely, and taking up some water; bothwhich things I have performed, and thereupon think myselfto have been faithful to my engagement." Hereupon thosewhom the child had imposed upon admired at his cunning,and that on account of his age. On the fifth day afterward,the priests that were pined with the famine came down, andwhen they were brought to Titus by the guards, they beggedfor their lives: but he replied that " the time of pardon wasover as to them; and that this very holy house, on whoseaccount only they could justly hope to be preserved, was de­stroyed ; and that it was agreeable to their office that priestsshould perish with the house itself to which they belonged."So he ordered them to be put to death. 2. But as for the tyrants themselves, and those that werowith them, when they found that they wero encompassed onevery side, and, as it were, walled round without any methodof escaping, they desired to treat with Titus by word ofmouth. Accordingly, such was the kindness of his nature,and his desire of preserving the city from destruction, andwas joined to the advice of his friends, who now thought therobbers were come to a temper, that he placed himself on thewestern side of the outer [court of the] temple; for therewere gates on that side above the Xystus, and a bridge that 1 The Jews of later times agree with Josephus, that there were hiding-places of secret chambers about the holy house, as Reland here informs us,where he thinks he h:is found these very walls described in them.