OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 459 the exhibitions.* Now also there is frequent mention of thebestowal of a prize of victory—which implies the competitionof several pieces—of the audience taking a lively part for oragainst the leading actors, of cliques and claqueurs. Thedecorations and machinery were improved; moveable sceneryartfully painted and audible theatrical thunder made theirappearance under the aedileship of Gaius Claudius Puleher in645 ;t and twenty years later (675) under the aedileship of 99. 79.the brothers Lucius and Marcus Lucullus came thechanging of the decorations by turning round the scenes.To the close of this epoch belongs the greatest of Romanactors, the freedman Quintus Roscius (+ about 692 at a 62.great age), throughout several generations the ornament andpride of the Roman stage,| the friend and welcome boon-companion of Sulla/—to whom we shall have to recur in thesequel. In recitative poetry the most surprising circumstance is Epos.the insignificance of the Epos, which during the sixthcentury had occupied decidedly the first place in the litera­ture destined for reading; it had numerous representativesin the seventh, but not a single one who had even temporarysuccess. From the present epoch there is hardly anythingto be reported save a number of rude attempts to translateHomer, and some continuations of the Ennian Annals, such * The attention given to the acoustic arrangements of the Greeks may beinferred from Vitrnv. v. 5, 8, Ritschl (Parerg. i. 227, xx.) has discussed thequestion of the seats; but it is probable (according to 1'lautus Capt. pro!.11) that those only who were not capite censi had a claim to a seat. Itis probable, moreover, that the words of Horace that "captive Greece ledcaptive her conquerors" primarily refer to these epoch-making theatrical gamesof Mummius (Tac. Ann. xiv. 21). f The scenery of Puleher must have been regularly painted, since the birdsare said to have attempted to perch on the tiles (Win. H. N. xxxv. 4, 23;Val. Max. ii. 4, 6). Hitherto the machinery for thunder had consisted in theshaking of nails and stones in a copper kettle; Puleher first produced a betterthunder by rolling stones, which was thenceforth named " Claudian thunder"(Festus v. Clavdiana, p. 57). \ Among the few minor poems preserved from this epoch there occurs thefollowing epigram on this illustrious actor:— Constiteram, exorientem Auroram forte salutans,Cum subito a Icera Hoscius exoritur.Pace mihi liceat, ccslestes, dicere vestra;Mortulis visust pulchriar esse deo. The author of this epigram, Greek in its tone and inspired by Greek enthu­siasm for art, was no less a man than the conqueror of the Cimbri, QuintusLutatius Catulus, consul in 652. 102.