OCR Output 462 OCTODUKU& OCKICULUM. and tile countries on the Danube. (Strab. iv. p. 207,vii, p. 314.) The mountain meant is evidently thatbetween AdeUhirg and Latfbae.fi, which mnrd in allages have Iwen the principal line of communicationfrom tiie Danube and the valley uf the *SVire withItaly. [E.H.B.] OCRICUI/UM (of "OtfpurXoi, Strab.; 'Owp.'KoAo,Steph. B.; 'QKp'ucoKov, Ptol.: 7.7//. Ocriculanusand Ocriculanus: Otricolf), a considerable town ofUmbria, situated on the Via Flaminia, near the leftbank of the Tiber. It was the southernmost townof Umbria, and distant only 44 miles from Koine.(/////. liter, p. 613; Westphal, Rom. Kamp. p.145.) We learn from Livy that Ocriculum was anative Umbrian city, and in k. c. 308 it appears tohave separated from the other cities of the confede­racy, and concluded an alliance with Rome. (Liv. ix.41.) This is the only notice that we find of it priorto the conquest of Umbria by the Romans; but afterthat period it figures repeatedly in history as a mu­nicipal town of stime importance. It was here thatin b.c. 217 Fabius Maximus took the command ofthe army of Servilius, after the battle of the lakeTrasiinenus. (Id. xxii. 11.) In the Social WarOcriculum suffered severely: and. according toFlorus, was laid waste with fire and sword (Flor.iii. 18. § 11); hut it seems to have quickly re­covered, and iu Strabo's time was a considerable andflourishing town. It is mentioned in Tacitus as theplace where the army of Vespasian halted niter the.surrender of the Vitellian legions at Narnia (Tac.Hist. iii. 78). From its position on the FlaminianWay it is repeatedly mentioned incidentally underthe Roman Empire (Plin. Ep. vi. 25; Annn. Marc,xvi. 10. § 4, xxviii. 1. § 22); and it is evidentthat it was indebted to the same circumstance forits continued prosperity. The name is found inI'iiny and Ptolemy, as well as in the Itineraries;and its municipal importance down to a late periodis attested also by inscriptions, in some of which itbears the title of "splendidissima civitas Ocrico-lana." From these combined, with the still extantremains, it is evident that it was a more considerabletown than we could have inferred from the accountsof ancient writers (Plin. iii. 5. p. 9, 14. s. 19; PtoLiii. 1. § 54; /tin. Ant. pp. 125, .'ill: Gruter,/nrer. p. 422. 8, 0; Orell. Inscr. 3852, 3857;Marini, Att't rfei Fratelli Arvali, vol. ii. p. 582).The site of the ancient city is distant about 2 milesfrom the modem village of Otricoli, in the plainnearer the Tiber. The ruins of ancient edifices are,in their present state, of but little interest; hut ex­cavations which were carried on upon the spot in1780 brought to light the remains of severalpublic buildings on a splendid scale, the plan andarrangement of which could be traced with littledifficulty; among these were a Basilica, a theatre,an amphitheatre. Thermae, and several temples, be­sides other buildings, of which the purpose couldnot be determined. The beauty of many of thearchitectural decorations and works of art discoveredon this occasion (especially the celebrated mosaicfloor now in the Vatican, and the colossal head ofJupiter in the same museum) prove that Ocriculummust have been a municipal town of no ordinarysplendour, (Westjdi.il, Romische Kampagne, p. 144;Guattani, Monumenti JnedUi, 1784. where theresults of the excavation are described in detail andaccompanied with a plan of the ancient remains,)its proximity to Rome probably caused it to be re­sorted to by wealthy nobles from the city; and as early as the time of Cicero we learn that MiV>Wivilla there. (Cic. pro Mil 24.) The penal of titdestruction of the ancient city is nnmta.u Ida.6413 it witnessed a great defeat nf HenCount of Africa, by the armies of Honoris* (lasCitron, ad ann.), and it is mentioned as an ejt-see after the fall of the Western Empire, Bu". ticircumstances that led the inhabitants to nugrutlthe modern village of Otricoli, on a hill owiwuithe Tiber, are not recorded. The corrop&o * ttname appears to have commenced at an wit aaaas it is written Utriculttm in the Itineraries ind lmany MSS. of the classical authors. [E. Rkj OORINUM. [Damkoxium.] < >CTAPITARUM ('OKra-rlrapo* fapor. Put i3. § 3), a very prominent headland above :b?f>liiwof the Sabrina, or Severn, on the W. coast of hr.'xinow St. David's Head. [T.H.D.] OCTOOL'TIUS (Martinach, or Martiprnf. m aFrench call it), is in the Swiss canton ot Ha)or Valais, on the left bank of the Rhone* bw llbend where the river takes a northern cran*i«tllake of Geneva. The I)ranee* one branch ofwhwrises at the foot of the Great St Bernard, ja» tileft bank of the Rhone at Martvjny. Itit raover the Alps from Martigny a»cencs thethe I/rancet and the summit of the road a tlAlpis Pennina, or Great St. Bernard, ltn* Mhas been used from a time older than any lisfcrwrecords. When Caesar was in Gallia (b.C 47—She sent Scrvius Galba with the twelfth feci c 1some cavalry into the country of the Ni^ji'iVeragri, and Seduni. His purpose in senj^r dforce was to open the pass over the Alps, tbr [aof the Great St. Bernard, ** by which rani lb« Bcatores had been used to travel at great risk. Iwith the payment of great tolls.'" (B. 0- iii. IThe people of the Alps allowed the Italian wchants to pass, because if they plundered :btn1merchants would not come; but they prt as ~«out of them as they could. Gaiba, after taiimany strong places, and rex civimr ihe subnuss»'«the people, sent otf two cohorts into the connmthe Nantuates, anil with the remaining enbvri* itermined to winter *; in a town of the Veracn »*aOctodurus, which town being tdtnated in a **lwith no great extent of level ground near it, l* «fined on all sides by very lofty mountains/ 7*is some level ground at Martigny, and the v*the Rhone at this part is not very narrow. C«lsays that the town of Oetodurus was diTii3*»i iparts by a river, but he dves not mention the rv*name. It is the Jh-ance. Galba irav* oc* r«*the town to the Galli to winter in, and as^jfiwiother to his troops. He fortified bimseif «dditch and rampart, and thought he wi*was, however, suddenly attacked by the Galli aflhis defences were complete or all bis suppi'» 1brought into the camp. The Romans sttccidefended themselves in a six hours' rjcht: wiswing that they could no longer keep thr 'tiout, they made a &or(ie. which was ronrr^The Romans estimated the Galli at more th* . ■ - Iand Caesar says that more than a thirl pin idestroyed. The slaughter of the enemy «»digious, which has been made an objection to tsar's veracity, or to Galba's, who made his rrpMthe commander. It has also been objected th*4valley is not wide enoneh at Martieptyi \o b**d30,000 men. There may be error id the bosthat attacked, and also iu the number whr j^r^