OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL the Latin tongue, and the exclusive use of the latter was inflexiblymaintained in the administration of civil as well as military govern­ment 45. The two languages exercised at the same time their se­parate jurisdiction throughout the empire : the former, as the naturalidiom of science; the latter, as the legal dialect of public trans­actions. Those who united letters with business, were equally con­versant with both; and it was almost impossible, in any province,to find a Roman subject, of a liberal education, who was at once astranger to the Greek and to the Latin language.Slaves. It was by such institutions that the nations of the empire insensibly melted away into the Roman name and people. But there still re­mained, in the centre of every province and of every family, anunhappy condition of men who endured the weight, without fhar--ing the benefits of society. In the free states of antiquity, the do- Their treat- mestic slaves were exposed to the wanton rigour of despotism. Themenu perfect settlement of the Roman empire was preceded by ages ofviolence and rapine. The slaves consisted, for the most part, ofbarbarian captives, taken in thousands by the chance of war, pur­chased at a vile price +S, accustomed to a life of independence, andimpatient to break and to revenge their fetters. Against such in­ternal enemies, whose desperate insurrections had more than oncereduced the republic to the brink of destruction 47, the most severeregulations *8, and the most cruel treatment, seemed almost justifiedby the great law of self-preservation. But when the principalnations of Europe, Asia, and Africa, were united under the laws ofone sovereign, the source of foreign supplies flowed with muchless abundance, and the Romans were reduced to the milder butmore tedious method of propagation. In their numerous families,and particularly in their country estates, they encouraged the mar­riage of their slaves. The affections of nature, the habits of edu­cation, and the possession- of a dependent species of property,contributed to alleviate the hardships of servitude "9. The ex­istence