OCR Output LAKISSA.127 LARISSA. § I). or of riastu, a Pelasgiun prince. (Strab. xiv. H*i.) I. An important town of Thessaly, the capital ofthe district Pelasgiotis, was situated in a fertilepUin npon a gently rising ground, ou the right orK>uth bank of the Peneius. It had a strongly forti­fied citadeL (Diod. xv. 61.) Larissa is not men­tioned by Homer. Some commentators, however,suppose it to be the same as the Pelasgic Argos ofHomer (11 ii. 681), but the latter was the name ofa district rather than of a town. Others, with moreprobability, identify it with the Argissa of the poet.(fL il 73>.) [See Vol. I. p. 209.] Its foundationwasa-vcribed to Acrisiu.". (Steph. B..«. r.) The plainof I . i- 'i was formerly inhabited by the Perrhaebi,wbo were partly expelled by the Larissacans, andfartly reduced to subjection. They continued sub­ject to Larissa, till Philip made himself master ofThesBaly. (Strab. be. p. 440.) The constitution ofLarissa was democrat teal (Aristot. Pol. v. 6), andtins was probably one reason why the Larissaeanswere allies of the Athenians during the Pelopon-wsian War. (Thuc. ii. 22.) During the Romanwars in Greece, Larissa is frequently mentioned as aplace of importance. It was here that Philip, theMl of Demetrius, kept all his royal papers duringbUcampaign against Flamininus in Greece; but afterthe battle of Cynoscephalae, in b. c. 197, he wasobliged to abandon Larissa to the Romans, havingf*t-Tioo>ly destroyed these documents. (Polyb. xviii.16.) It was still in the hands of the Romans whenAmiochus crossed over into Greece, b. c. 191, andtiiu king made an ineffectual attempt upon the town.(Ut. xxxvi. 10.) In the time of Strabo Larissacontinued to be a flourishing town (ix. p. 430). Itis mentioned by Hierocles in the sixth century as thefirst town in Thessaly (p. 642, ed. Wessel.). It isttitl a considerable place, the residence of an arch-tn*J>op and a pa&ha, and containing 30,000 inhabit­ant*. It continues to bear its ancient name, thoughthe Turks call it Ytnisheher, which is its officialappellation. Its circumference is less than threenuWi. Like other towns in Greece, which have beencontinually inhabited, it presents few remains of Hel­lenic times. They are chiefly found in the Turkishcemeteries, consisting of plain quadrangular stones,fragments of columns, mostly fluted, and a greatnumber of ancient cippi and sepulchral stelae, whichnow ierre for Turkish tombstones. (Leake, North­ern Grtectj toL L p. 439, seq.) COIN OF LARISSA.2. L A RISK A CllEMASTE (>J Kp€U*<TT$> Aap«T(To), stown of Thessaly of less importance than the pre­ceding Qnel was situated in the district of Phthiotis,tt the distance of 20 stadia from the Maliac gulf,"p^n & height advancing in front of Mount Othrys.(Stab. U. p. 435.) It occupied the side of the hill,■ad wu hence sumamed Cremaste, as hanging onthe tide of Mt. Othrys, to distinguish it from the more celebrated Larissa, situated in a plain. Straboalso describes it as well watered and producing vines(ix. p. 440). The same writer adds that it was sur-named Pelasgia as well as Cremaste (I. c). Fromits being situated in the dominions of Achilles, somewriters suppose that the Roman poets give this herothe surname of Lurissaeus, but this epithet is per-haps used generally for Thessalian. Larissa Cre­maste was occupied by Demetrius Poliorcetes in b. c.302, when he was at war with Cassander. (Diod. xx.110.) It was taken by Apustius in the first warbetween the Romans and Philip, b c. 200 (Liv.xxxi. 46), and again fell into the hands of the Ro­mans in the war with Perseus, b. c. 171. (Liv. xlii.56, 57.) The ruins of the ancient city are situatedupon a steep hill, in the valley of Gurdhiki, at a di­rect distance of five or six miles from Khanniko.The walls are very conspicuous on the western sideof the hill, where several courses of masonry remain.Gell says that there arc the fragments of a Durictemple upon the acropolis, but of these Leake makesno mention. (Gell, Itinerary of Greece, p. 252;Dodwell, Travels, vol. ii. p. 81; Leake, NorthernGreece, vol. iv. p. 347.) 3. The citadel of Argos, [Vol. I. p. 202.]LARISSA (Aapieraa). 1. A town in the territoryof Ephesus, on the north bank of the Caystrus,which there flows through a most fertile district,producing an excellent kind of wine. It was situatedat a distance of 180 stadia from Ephesus, and 30from Tralles. (Strab. ix. p. 440, xiii. p. 620.) InStrabo's time it had sunk to the rank of a village,but it was said once to have been a tt6\i$, with atemple of Apollo. Cramer (As. Mm. i. p. 558)conjectures that its site may correspond to themodern Ttrieh. 2. A place on the coast of Troas, about 70 stadiasouth of Alexandria Troas, and north of Hamaxitus.It was supposed that this Larissa was the one men­tioned by Homer (II. ii. 841), but Strabo (xiii.p. 620) controverts this opinion, because it is notfar enough from Troy. (Comp. Steph. B. s. v.)The town is mentioned as still existing by Thucydides (viii. 101) and Xenophon (Ilellen. iii 1.§ 13; comp. Scylax, p. 36; Strab. ix. p. 440,xiii. p. 604). AUienaeus (ii. p. 43) mentions somehot springs near Larissa in Troas, which are stillknown to exist a little above the site of AlexandriaTroas. ( Voyage I'ittoresque, vol. ii. p. 438.) 3. Larissa, surnamed Phkiconis, a Pelasgiurtown in Aeolis, but subsequently taken possessionof by the Aeolians, who constituted it one of thetowns of their confederacy. It was situated nearthe coast, about 70 stadia to the south-east ofCyme (h wepl rfyv Kvpijv, Strab. xiii. p. 621;Herod. I, 149). Strabo, apparently for good reasons,considers this to be the Larissa mentioned in theIliad (ii. 840). Xenophon (Ilellen. iii. 1. § 7,comp. Cyrop. vii. 1. § 45) distinguishes this townfrom others of the same name by the epithet of"the Egyptian," because the elder Cyrus had esta­blished there a colony of Egyptian soldiers. Fromthe same historian we must infer that Larissa wasa place of considerable strength, as it was besiegedin vain by Th'nnhrom; but in Strabo's time theplace was deserted. (Comp. Plin. v. 32; Veil. Pat.i. 4; Vit. Horn. c. 11; Steph. B. s. v.; Ptol. v. 2.§5.) [L.S] LARISSA (Mpmoa, Xon. Anab. iii. 4. § 7), atown of Assyria, at no great distance from the leftbank of the Tigris, observed by Xenophon on the