OCR Output t. III. 293 YEAR VI. BEFORE CHRIST 426. endeavouring to escape without permission, and therefore setout in the pursuit of the Peloponnesians. Their officers en­deavoured to stop them, crying out, that "leave was given" for their escape."—Upon which a soldier, concluding theirofficers had been guilty of treachery, darted his javelinamongst them. But afterwards they connived at the escapeof the Mantineans and Peloponnesians, but made slaughterof the Ambraciots. Great indeed was the tumult, and theperplexity also to distinguish which was an Ambraciot, andwhich was a Peloponnesian ; and amidst the confusion abouttwo hundred were slain. The rest made their escape intothe bordering kingdom of Agraeis, where Salythius king ofthe Agraeans, who was their friend, took them under his pro­tection. The Ambraciots of the city were now advanced as far asIdomene. They are two lofty eminences which are calledby this name. The higher of the two, by favour of the dark,the detachment sent before by Demosthenes from the camphad seized without being discovered, and had posted them­selves upon it. The Ambraciots had possessed themselvesalready of the lower, and halted there for the night. De­mosthenes after his evening repast, and the remainder ofthe army about shut of evening, began to march. He him­self took half of them to attack the enemy in front, whilst theother was fetching a compass round the mountains of Am-philochia. The next morning was no sooner in its dawn, than he comesupon the Ambraciots yet in their beds, still ignorant of all thathad passed, and rather supposing these new-comers to be theirfriends. For Demosthenes had poKtkly placed the Messeni-ans in the van, and ordered them to discourse as they movedalong in the Doric dialect, thus to prevent any alarm from theiradvanced guards, who further so long as the dark continuedcould not possibly distinguish their faces. By this means,he no sooner assaulted the camp than the rout began.Numbers of them were slain upon the spot. The remainder Vol. I. 3 E