OCR Output 428 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. tion of it? Demetrius replied, that no onedurst be so bold as to touch upon the descrip­tion of these laws, because they were divineand venerable; and because some that hadattempted it were afflicted by God. He alsotold him, that Theopompus was desirous ofwriting somewhat about them; but was there­upon disturbed in his mind, for above thirtydays' time. And upon some intermission ofhis distemper, he appeased God by prayer: assuspecting that his madness proceeded fromthat cause. Nay, indeed, he farther saw ina dream, that his distemper befell him, whilehe indulged too great a curiosity about di­vine matters; and was desirous of publishingthem among common men. But when heleft off that attempt, he recovered his under­standing again. Moreover he informed himof Theodectes, the tragic poet; concerningwhom it was reported, that when in a certaindramatic representation, he was desirous tomake mention of things that were containedin these sacred books, he was afflicted witha darkness in his eyes. And that upon hisbeing conscious of the occasion of his dis­temper, and appeasing God by prayer, hewas free from that affliction. When the king had received these booksfrom Demetrius, as we have said already, headored them: and gave order that great careshould be taken of them, that they might re­main uncorrupted. He also desired that theinterpreters would come often to him out ofJudea, and that both on account of the re­spect that he would pay them, and oh ac­count of the presents he would make them.For he said, it was now but just to sendthem away: although if, of their own ac­cord, they would come to him hereafter,they should obtain all that their own wisdommight justly require, and what his generositywas able to give them. So he then dismissedthem: and gave to every one of them threegarments of the best sort, two talents of gold,a cup of the value of one talent, and the fur­niture of the room wherein they were feasted.And these were the things he presented to * The use of oil was much greater, and the donativesof it, much more valuable in Judea, and the neighbouringcountries than it is amongst us. It was also, in the daysof Josephus, thought unlawful for Jews to make use ofany oil that was prepared by heathens: perhaps on ac­count of some superstitions intermixed with its prepara- them. But by them he sent to Eleazar, thehigh-priest, ten beds, with feet of silver, andthe furniture to them belonging; and a cupof the value of thirty talents. And besidesthese, ten garments, and purple, and a verybeautiful crown, and a hundred pieces of thefinest wove linen: as also vials, and dishes,and vessels for pouring, and two golden cis­terns to be dedicated to God. He also de­sired him, by an epistle, that he would givethese interpreters leave, if any of them weredesirous of coming to him; because he highlyvalued a conversation with men of such learn­ing, and would be very willing to lay out hiswealth upon such men. And this was whatcame to the Jews, and was much to their gloryand honour, from Ptolemy Philadelphus. CHAP. m. OF THE HONOURS AND PRIVILEGES BESTOWED UPON THENATION OF THE JEWS, BY THE KINGS OF ASIA. THE Jews also obtained honours fromthe kings of Asia, when they becametheir auxiliaries. For Seleucus Nicatormade them citizens in those cities which hebuilt in Asia, and in the lower Syria, and inthe metropolis, Antioch, and gave them pri­vileges equal to those of the Macedoniansand Greeks, who were the inhabitants; inso­much that these privileges continue to thisvery day. An argument for which you havein this, that whereas the Jews do not makeuse *of oil prepared by foreigners, theyreceive a certain sum of money from theproper officers belonging to their exercises,as the value of that oil; which money, wheathe people of Antioch would have deprivedthem of, in the last war, Mucianus, who wasthen president of Syria, preserved it to them.And when the people of Alexandria and ofAntioch did after that, at the time that Ves­pasian and Titus his son governed the ha­bitable earth, pray that these privileges ofcitizens might be taken away, they did notobtain their request. In which behaviourany one may discern the equity and gene­rosity of the Romans;t especially of Vespa- tion by those heathens. When therefore the heathenswere to make them a donative of oil, they paid themmoney instead of it. See Of the War, II. 19. and Hud­son's note on the place before us. t This, and the like great and just characters of thejustice, equity, and generosity, of the old Romans, both