OCR Output Chap. VII.l AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 239 intermediate between a city and a state had formed itself atleast in a natural way, the new Italia was nothing at allbut a place of congress for the insurgents, and it was bya pure fiction of law that the inhabitants of the peninsulawere stamped as burgesses of this new capital. But it issignificant, that in this case, where the sudden amalgama­tion of a number of isolated cantons into a new politicalunity might have so naturally suggested the idea of a repre­sentative constitution in the modern sense, no trace of anysuch idea occurs; in fact the very opposite course was fol­lowed,* and the communal organization was simply repro­duced in a far more absurd manner than before. Nowhereperhaps is it more clearly apparent than in this instance,that in the view of antiquity a free constitution was in­separable from the appearance of the sovereign people inperson in their collective assemblies or from a civic type,and that the great fundamental idea of the modern republi­can-constitutional state, viz., the expression of the sove­reignty of the people by a representative assembly—thatidea without which a free state would be a chaos—is whollymodern. Even the Italian polity, although it approximatedto a free state in its somewhat representative senates andin the diminished importance of the comitia, never wasable either in the case of Rome or Italia to cross theboundary-line. Thus began, a few months after the death of Drusus, in Warlikethe winter of 663-4 the struggle—as one of the coins of the prepaxa-insurgents represents it—of the Sabellian ox against the tlOQil90Roman she-wolf. Both sides made zealous preparations:in Italia great stores of arms, provisions, and money were ac­cumulated; in Rome the requisite supplies were drawn fromthe provinces and particularly from Sicily, and the long-neglected walls were put in a state of defence against any * Even from our scanty information, the best part of which is given byDiodor. p. 538 and Strabo, v. 4, 2, this is very distinctly apparent; for example,the latter expressly says that the burgess-body chose the magistrates. That thesenate of Italia was meant to be formed in another manner and to have dif­ferent powers from that of Home, has been asserted, but has not been proved.Of course in its first composition care must have been taken to have a repre­sentation in some degree uniform of the insurgent cities; but that the senatorswere intended to he regularly deputed by the communities, is nowhere stated.As little does the commission given to the senate to draw up a constitution ex­clude its promulgation by the magistrates and ratification by the assembly ofthe people.