OCR Output 518 DISSERTATION III. the spirit or air that is over it thereby corrupted; and thatby this means the fruits of the earth, both corn and grapes,rot away, both the soil and the air being equally unwholesome. The river Belus docs also run into the sea of Judea ; andthe sands that are collected about its mouth, when you mixnitre with them, arc melted into glass; this sort of shore is"but small, but its sand, for the use of those that carry it off,is inexhaustible. Chap. VIII.] A great part of Judea is composed of scat­tered villages; it also has larger towns: Jerusalem is thecapital city of the whole nation. In that city there was atemple of immense wealth ; in the first parts that are fortifiedis the city itself; next it the royal palace. The temple isenclosed in its most inward recesses. A Jew can come nofarther than the gates; all but the priests arc excluded bytheir threshold. While the East was under the dominion ofthe Assyrians, the Medes, and the Persians, the Jews wereof all slaves the most despicable.1 2After the dominion of the Macedonians prevailed, kingAntiochus tried to conquer their superstition, and to introducethe customs of the Greeks; but he was disappointed of hisdesign, which was to give this most profligate nation a changefor the better, and that was by his war with the Parthians,for at this time Arsaces had fallen off [from the Macedonians.]Then it was that the Jews set kings over them, because theMacedonians were become weak, the Parthians were not yetvery powerful, and the Romans were very remote: whichkings, when they had been expelled by the mobility of thevulgar, and had recovered their dominion by war, attemptedthe same things that kings used to do, I mean they introducedthe destruction of cities, the slaughter of brethren, of wives,and parents, but still went on in their superstition; for theytook upon them withal the honorable dignity of the high-priesthood, as a firm security to their power and authority. 1 A great slander against the Jews, without any just foundation. Josephuswould have informed him better. * Here begin Josephus's and Tacitus's true accounts of the Jews prelimi­nary to the la«t war. See Of the War, Prooem. sect. 7.