OCR Output 130 LATHON. LASAKA. 585), and is said to have been destroyed by theDioscuri, who hence derived the surname of Lapersae.(Strab. viii. p. 364; Slcph. B. ». r. An.) There wasalso a mountain in Laconia called Lapcrsa. (Steph.B. *. v. Aavifxra.') In the later period it was aplace of no importance. Livy speaks of it as "virusmarilimus" (xxxviii. 30), and Pausanias mentionsthe ruins of the city on Sit. Asia. Before the wallslie saw a statue of Hercules, and a trophy erectedover the Macedonians who were a part of Philip'sarmy when he invaded Laconia; and among thoruins he noticed a statue of Athena Asia. Themodem town was near a fountain called Galaco(PaAoKfiw), from the milky colour of its water, aminear it was a gymnasium, in which stood an ancientatatne of Hermes. Besides the ruins of the old townon Mt Asia, there were also buildings on the twoother mountains mentioned above: on ML Iliumstood a temple of Dionysus, and on the summit atemple of Asclepius; and on Mt. Cnacadium a templeof Apollo Carneius. Las is spoken of by Polybins (v. 19) and Strabo(viii. p. 363) under the name of Asine; and henceit has been supposed that some of the fugitives fromAsine in Argolis may have settled at Las, and giventheir name to the town. But, notwithstanding thestatement of Polybins, from whom Strabo probablycopied, we have given reasons elsewhere for believingthat there was no Laconian town called Asine; anilthat the mistake probably arose from confounding"Asine" with "Asia," on which Las originally stood.[Asine, No. 3.] Las stood upon the hill of Pauavd, which is nowcrowned by the ruins of a fortress of the middleages, among which, however, Leake noticed, at thesouthern end of the eastern wall, a piece of Hellenicwall, about 50 joces in length, and two-thirds oftho height of the modern wall. It is formed ofpolygonal blocks of stone, some fciur feet long andthree broad. The fountain Galaco is the stream7'urtovresa, which rises between the bill of I'iis-tard and the village of Karctla, tho latter being onemile and a half west of Pauavd. (Leake, ilorea,vol. i. p. 254, seq., p. 276, seq.; Pelopometiaca,p. 150; Boblaye, lUchrrchei, dv. p. 87; Curtius,PeLiptmnrtoM, vol. ii. p. 273, seq.) LASAKA (Aao-afa), a city in Crete, near theroadstead of the " Fair Havens." (AcU, xxvii. 8.)This place is nut mentioned by any other writer, butis probably the same as tho Lisia of tlie PeutingerTables, 16 M. P. to the E. of Gortyna. (Comp Hock,A'rWo, vol. i. pp. 412,439.) Some MSS. have Laseo;others, Alav-a. The Vulgate reads Thalassa, whichBexa contended was the true name. (Comp. Coney-beare and Howson, Life and Epitt. of St. Paid,vol. ii. p. 3.10.) [E. B. J.] LA'SION (AturoKK or fuuruir), the chief town ofthe mountainous district of Acroreia in Elis proper,was situated upon the frontiers of Arcadia near Pso-phis. Curtius places it with great probability in theupper valley of the Ladon, at the Wmfciilro ofKuinnni, on the road from the Eleisn Pylos andEphyra to Psophis. Lasion wis a frequent object ofdispute between the Arcadian* and Eleians, both ofwhom laid claim to it. In the war which the Spar-tans carried on against Elis at the close of the Pelo-ponnesian War, Pausanias, king of Sparta, took La­sion (IHod. xiv. 17). The invasion of Pausanias isnot mrntiorcd by Xenophon in his account of thiswar; bat the latter author relate* that, by the treatyuf |*ace concluded between Elis and Sparta in B.c 400, the Eleians were obliged to give up Lasion, incousequence of its being claimed by tbe Arcadians(Xen. Hell. iii. 2. § 30.) In n. c. 366 the Eleiansattempted to recover Lasion from the Arcadiant;they took the town by surprise, but were shortlyafterwards driven out of it a„'ain bv the Arcadian*.(Xen. IM1. vii. 4. § 13, seq.; Diod. xv. 77.) InB. o. 219 Lasion was again a fortress of Elis. butupon the capture of Psophis by Philip, the Kleiangarrison at Lasion straightway deserted tbe place.(Polyb. iv. 72, 73.) Polybins mentions (v. 102)along with Lasion a fortress called Pyrgos, which heplaces in a district named Perippia. (Leake, Morra,vol. ii. p. 200, soq.; Boblaye. Kec/iercie*. i/-c. p. 12i;Curtius, PeluponnejttM, vol. i. p. 41 ) LA'SSORA, a town of Galatia, mentioned in tliePeut. Tuli. as 25 miles distant from Kcrobriga.whence we may infer that it is the same plme a*tlie Aatrifopia of Ptolemy (v. 4. § 9). Tbe Anlo-nine Itinerary (p. 203) mentions a town Adaperain about the same site. [L. & J LASTl'GI, a town of Hisjsinia Raetica, ber-nginirto the conventus of Hispalis (Plin. iii. 1. a. 3), andone of the cities of which we have coins, all of* themliclonging to the period of its independence: theirtype is a head of Mars, with two ears of corn lyingparallel to each other. The site is supposed to be atZahara, lying on a height of the Sierra de Honda,above the river Guadalrtc. (Carter's Trarde, p. 171;Fiorez, Ktp. S. vol. ix. pp. 18, 60. Med. vol. S.p. 475, vol. iii. p. 85; Mionnet. vol. L p. 50,Suppl. vol. i. p. 113; Sestini, Med. lip. p. 61.Num. Goth.; Eckhel, vol. L p. 25; I'kert. rui. B.pt. 1. pp. 358,382.) [P-S.] LASUS, a town of Crete, enumerated by Pliny(iv. 12) among his list of inland chiea. A rwinwith the epigraph AATIflN, the Doric form forAoffiwr, is claimed by Kckhcl (vol. ii. p. 316, rt*mp.Sestini, p. 53) for this place. [E. B. J.] LATAKA. [Ledi-m.] LATHON (Aa»*r, Strab. xvii. p. 836, wherw In*vulgar reading is AdoW ; comp xiv. p. 647. whrrvhe calls it ArtSato! ; Pto". iv. 4. § 4; Mflvr. PlU.F.ncrg. ap Atk. ii. p. 71 ; Fmvioa Lsrnoa, Plim.v. 5; Solin. 27 : Lrtiiks Amhm, Lucan, ix. 355).a river of the Hesperidae or Hesperitae, in Cyr»-naica. It rose in the Herculis Arenae, and fell intothe sea a little N. of the city of Hkspf.bipks or Bt-KKNtcK: Strabo connects it with the harbour of thecity (Ai^V 'EffWf piSiv: that there is not the slighter;reason for altering the reading, as Groskurd a'-uiothers do, into Ai'ujt), will presently appear); andScvlax (p. 110, Gronov.) mentions tlie river, whichhe calls Ecceius ('E«rir«iof). as in close proximitywith the city and habour of Hesperides. Pliny ea-preasly states that the river was not far frum the(ity, and places on or near it a sacred grove, whit bwas supposed to represent tbe " Gardens of the rb«-peridea'' (Plin. v. 5: nee pntcul ante oppidmm Jk*~rms />tAon, luctu sacrr, ubi Htrprr'ubtm Jnrrti **#-.viorantur). Athenaeus quotes from a wcrk ««f"Itolemy Kuergetca praises of its fine pike and eel*,somewhat inconsistent, especially in the month el aluxurious king of Egypt, with the myOiieut sound ««fthe name. That name is, in fact, plain Doric Greek.descriptive of the character of the river, like ourEnglish Mole. Si well does it deserve tbe nurv,that it "escaped the notice"' of commentator* u*igeographers, till it was discovered by Beo bey, a* itstill flows "concealed" fn.m such scholars a* depovlon vague guesse* in place'of an accural* knowlnlfw