OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 293 from Sicily, and pass over to Macedonia. Accord­ingly, Marcus Valerius Laevinus, propretor, was sent;and, receiving thirty-eight ships from Cneius Octa-vius, near Vibo, he sailed to Macedonia, where, beingmet by Marcus Aurelius, the ambassador, and in­formed what numerous forces and what large fleetsthe king had prepared, and how busily he was em­ployed in prevailing on divers states to join him,applying to some in person, to others by agents, notonly through all the cities of the continent, but even inthe islands. Laevinus was convinced from this thatthe war required vigorous exertions on the side of theRomans; for, should they be dilatory, Philip mightbe encouraged to attempt an enterprise like to thatwhich had been formerly undertaken by Pyrrhus, whopossessed not such large dominions. He therefore de­sired Aurelius to convey this intelligence, by letter,to the consuls and to the senate. 4. Towards the end of this year the senate, takinginto consideration the lands to be given to the veteransoldiers, who under the conduct and auspices of Pub-lius Scipio had finished the war in Africa, decreedthat Marcus Tunius, pretor of the city, should, if hethought proper, appoint ten commissioners to surveyand distribute among them that part of the Samniteand Apulian lands which was the property of the Ro­man people. For this purpose were appointed, Pub-lius Servilius, Quintus Caecilius Metellus, Caius andMarcus Servilius, both surnamed Geminus, Luciusand Aulus Hosfilins Cato, Publius Villius Tappulus,Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, Publius JElius Partus, andQuintus Flaminius. At the same time Publius /Eliuspresiding at the election of consuls, Publius SulpiciusGalba and Caius Aurelius Cotta were elected. Thenwere chosen pretors, Quintus Minucius Rufus, LuciusFurius Purpureo, Quintus Fulvius Gillo, Cneius Ser-gius Plancus. The Roman stage-games were exhi­bited, in a sumptuous and elegant manner, by thecurule ediles, Lucius Valerius Flaccus and LuciusQuintius Flaminius, and repeated for two days; and