OCR Output TANAITAE. TAXIS. 10S9 f GrSfc, Men. <fe lAc. des Sc. a St. Petersb. vi.er. fL p. 24; Stempowakv, Sow. Jour. Asioi.p.55; Bockh. Inscr. ii. p.* 1008). [T. H. D.)TANA1TAB (Toron-ai, Ptol. iii. 5. § 24), a peo-It of European Sarmatia, dwelling NE. of the ftoxo-itt, iml between them and the Tanais. [T. H. D.]TAS'AKUS (Tanaro'), a river of Liguria, the*: important of all the southern tributaries of>i I'atlas. It rises in the Maritime Alps aboverra (CebaX ^0WB ft first due N., receives nearktnuco the waters of the Stura, a stream as eon-imble as itself, then turns to the NE., passes'iur, a few miles of Pollcntia (Pollenza), flowsidtr the walls of Alba Pampeia and Asta (Asti),J discharges its waters into the Po about 15Leitiw IWensa (Forum Fulvii). It receivesa r considerable tributaries besides the &ura«ttiv mentioned, of which the most important is: livrmula, the ancient name of which has notm preserved to us; but the Orba, a minor streamtch fans into it a few miles above its junctionLa tbe Tanaro* is evidently the river Urbs, men-oal by Claudian (B. Get. 555), the name ofka had given rise to an ambiguous prophecy,n had misled tbe Gothic king Alaric. The Btlbo,. I tails into the Tanaro a few miles above the<^tiida, has been identified with the Fevus of thelu.'i; but the names of rivers given in that do­om! in this part of Italy are so corrupt, and theiriu*os so strangely misplaced, that it is idle tonnpt their determination. Though the Tansrusuk of the most important rivers of NorthernIf, its name is not mentioned by any of theirspbera except Pliny; nor does it occur injxj until long after the fall of the Westernjare. (Pun. iii. 16. a. 20 j P. Disc. Hist. Lang.W.) [E.H. B.] TANATIS, according to Solinus (c 12), anmi to th« neighbourhood of Britain. It is un-Ufdly tbe same which Beds (Hist. Keel i. 25)■ lanaloa, and which still bears the name ofmet [T. H. D.] ANATIS. [Tali a.]ANAC& [Aroos, Vol. I. p. 201, a.]A-NKTCM or TANNE'TUM (Terror, Ptol.:Isnetanus, Plin.: S. Ilario), a small town ofis Cispadana, on the Via Aemilia, betweenJ"n LepkJum and Parma, and distant 10 milesi the former and 8 from the latter city. (/tin.J» 287; It**- Bier. p. 616; Tab. Pent.) It*■ iU aed in history before the Roman conquest<: part of Italy, as a Gaulish village, to which; n*!or L. ManUus retired after his defeat byin a. c. 218, and where he was surrounded<-^ed by that people, (Pol. iii. 40; Liv. jxi. ] o tuiine is not again noticed in history, butmentioned both by Pliny and Ptolemy as arip*] town of Gallia CUpadana, though it ap-> to haro never risen to be a place of importance.L iu. IS. a. 20; Ptol. iii. 1. §46; Phlegon,^6. I.) Livy calls the Gaulish town "vicos fropiaauos,** an expression which would leadi erroneous idea of its position; for we learnUm Itineraries that it certainly stood on tbeat a distance of more than 10 miles fromf'sia*. The site is still occupied by a largejv, which is now called, from the name of its-j«J church, Stmt Ilario; but a hamlet orr» shout a mile to the X. still retains the'Tflnrfo It i» distant about 2 miles fromthe Nicia of Pliny (iii. 16. 8. 20), x. tx. which flows into the Po, about 12 miles from tbepoint where it crosses the Aemilian Way. [E. H. B.] TANIS (TdV«, Herod, ii. 166; Strab. xvii.p, 802; Ptol. iv. 5. § 52; the Zoan of the Hebrews,Numb. xiii. 23; the Coptic Tam or Athennks, andthe modern San), was a city of Lower Aegypt,situated, in lat. 30° 59', on the Tanitic arm of theNile. [Nilus, Ostium Taniticum.] It was the ca­pital of the Tanitic Nome. Although the name ofTanis does not appear in Aegyptian annuls earlierthan the xxi-st dynasty, which consisted of 21 Tanitekings, it had long previously been among the mont im­portant cities of the Delta. The branch of the Nile onwhich it stood was, with the exception of the Pe-lusiac, the most easterly, and the nearest to Palestineand Arabia. It is described in tbe Book of Numbers(/. c.) as founded only seven years later than He­bron; and Hebron, being extant in the time of Abra­ham, was one of the oldest towns in Palestine. Tanisowed its importance partly to its vicinity to theses,and partly to its situation among the Deltaicmarshes. It probably was never occupied by theHyksos, but, during their usurpation, afforded refugeto the exiled kings and nobles of Memphis. It wasa place of strength during the wars of the earlykings of the New Monarchy—the xviiith dynasty—with the shepherds; and when the Aegyptian*, intheir turn, invaded Western Afia, the position ofTanis became of the more value to them. Forafter Aegypt became a maritime power, in its warswith Cyprus and Phoenicia, a city at no great dis­tance from the coast would be indispensable forits naval armaments. To these purposes Taniswas better adapted than the more exposed andeasterly Pelusiuin. The eastern arms of the Nilewere the first that silted up, and the Pelusiacmouth of the river was at a very early period tooshallow for ships of war. The greatness of Tanisis attested in many passages of the Hebrew writers.In the 78th Psalm the wonders that attended thedeparture of the Israelites from Aegypt are said tohave been ** wrought in the plain of Zoan." ThisPsalm, indeed, is somewhst later than David (B.C.1055—1015); but it proves the tradition that Taniswas the capital of that Pharaoh who oppressed theHebrew people. Iu the age of Isaiah (six. 11, foil.),about 258 years later, Tanis was still reckoned thecapital of the Delta, since the prophet speaks of theprinces of Zoan and the primes of Nopli (Memphis)as equivalent to the nobles of Aeeypt. Again,Isaiah (xxx. 4) describes the ambasoadors whowere sent to Aegypt to form an alliance with itsking as repairing to Zoan and llanes, or Ileraeleo-polis; and the desolation of Zoan is threatened byEzekiel as the consequence of Nebuchadnezzar sinvasion. Tanis probably declined as Sais andMemphis rose into importance; yet twenty yearsbefore the Chiistian era it was still a large town(Strab. xvii. p. 802); nor did it shrink into insigni­ficance until nearly 80 a.d. (Joseph. B. Jud. iv.11, § 4.) Its linen manufacture probably long sus­tained it. The marshy grounds in its environs werewell suited to the cultivation of flax; and Pliny(ix. 1) speaks of tbe Tanitic linen as amongthe finest in Aegypt. No city in the Delta presents so many monu­ments of interest as Tanis. The extensive plainuf San is indeed thinly inhabited, and no villageexists in the immediate vicinity of tbe buriedcity. A canal passes through, without beingable to fertilise, the field of Zoan, and wild beasts 4 A