OCR Output TIERNA. TIFERNUS. 1207 i a.d. 170, in which the Alemanni, who had in->dtd Italy, wen finally defeated by the Emperor[turban (Vict. Epit. 85): the other iu a.d. 352,rtwern the riral emperors Magnentius and Con-lantius. (/». 43.) [E. H. B.] TIERNA (called by Ptol. Alspvo, iii. 8. § 10), ajwn of Dacia on the Danube, opposite to the castlef Zeroes (Old Onova) in Moesia. In inscriptionsr find h called Statin Tsiernensis (Marat, p. 332.; Grisrhni, L p. 265); in the Digest (de Cent.(), Coknia Zernensium; and in the Not. Imp.c 3), Tram Diernis. [T. H. D.] TIFATA (t« Ti^ornvi Sjnj, Dion Cass.: Montei MaiUalom), a mountain ridge on the borders of'impania and Samnium, only about a mile from theity of Capoa. It is one of the last outlying massesf the Apennines, and is a long, narrow ridge of noteat elevation, but above 12 miles in length fromto W., and presenting a bold and steep mountain■•tit towards the Campsnian plain, upon which itfki directly down. The name was derived accord-ig to Festus from the woods of evergreen oak with'hich it was covered, "Tifata" being equivalent) " ilicets," though whether it was an Oacan or oldMia word, we are not told. (Fest. ». p. Tifata.)I is first mentioned daring the war between theamnites and Campanians which immediately pre-iM the First Ssmnite War. On that occasion theamnites in the first instance occupied the ridge-rif with a strong force, and afterwards drew outheir main army into the plain below, where theyon defeated the Campanians in a pitched battle.Lit. vii. 29.) Livy calls it on this occasion "Ti-imminentes Capuae col lea," and elsewhereimminentem Capuae" (xxvi. 5), whichits character and situation. It wasliis opportune position with regard to Capua andsurrounding plain, that caused it to be selectedy Hannibal as a post where he established hisi-np in B. c. 215, and from whence he long carriedn his operations against the various cities of Cam-•nis, (Id. xxiii. 36, 37, 39, 43, xxvi. 5; Sil.til. iii. 487.) At a later period it was in thelam at the foot of Tifata that Sulla defeated thelinan general Norbanus, B. c. 83; and in grati-aiir for this victory, he consecrated a considerablenet of territory to Diana, the tutelary goddess ofhe mountain. (Veil. Fat. ii. 25.) We hence learnhat that divinity bad a celebrated temple on Tifata,»i the " Dianae Tifatinae fanum" is noticed also- inscriptions found at Capua. From one of these■ learn that the consecrated territory was agains'ljoed to the goddess by Vespasian. (Orell.micr. 1460, 3055.) As the Tabula marks a sta­in " Ad Dianae" near the W. extremity of theidge, it is probable that the temple was situated inha: neighbourhood. (Tab. Peut.) From the sameutharity we learn that Jupiter, who was worshipped 0 » many of the highest points of the Apennines,ad a temple also on Tifata, to which it gives theante of J oris Tifatiiins. It is placed in the Tabula 1 the E. extremity of the ridge. {Tab. Prut.)igain in s. c. 48 the fastnesses of this mountainhl^e afforded a shelter to Milo when driven from'sfua. (Dion Cass. xlii. 25.) This is the last■me its name is mentioned in history, and it is notuticed by any of the geographers: in the middle the name seems to have been wholly forgotten;M the mountain is now called from a neighbouringilUee the Mottle di Maddaloni. But the descrip-wos of Livy and Silias lulicus leave no doubt of the identification. It is indeed, from its proximityto Capua and the abruptness with which it risesfrom the plain, one of the most striking natural fea­tures of this part of Campania. [E. H. B.] TIFERNUM (Tfytpfw) was the name of twocities or towns of Umbria, which were distinguishedby the epithets Tiberiuum and Metaurcnse (Flin. iii.14. s. 19). 1. TirEKNCM Tiberindm, which appears to haTsbeen the moat considerable place of the name, wassituated on or near the site of the modern Citta diCatteUo, in the upper valley of the Tiber, about 20miles TL of Arezzo. The Tifernates Tiberini areenumerated among the municipal communities ofUmbria by Pliny (i c.)j but our principal knowledgeof the town is derived from the epistles of the youngerPliny, whose Tuscan villa was situated in its neigh­bourhood. For this reason the citizens had chosenhtm at a very early age to be their patron; and inreturn for this honour he had built a temple there athis own expense. (1'lin. Ep. iv. 1.) lie afterwardsadorned this with statues of the various Roman em­perors, to which he in one of his letters begs leaveto add that of Trajan {lb. x. 24). From the cir­cumstance that Pliny's villa itself was in Etruria(whence he always calls it his Tuscan villa), whileTifernum was certainly in Umbria, it is evident thatthe frontier of the two countries ran very near thelatter place, very probably as that of the Tuscanand Roman States does at the present day, betweenCitta di CatteUo and Borgo S. Sepolcro. The po­sition of Tifernum on nearly the same site with theformer of these cities seems to be well established bythe inscriptions found there and reported by Cluverius(Cluver. Ital p. 624; Gruter, lutcr. p. 494. 5).But it was probably situated rather further fromthe Tiber, as Pliny describes it as being, like Perugiaand Ocriculum," not far" from that river (Plin. iii.5. s. 9), while the modern Citta di CatteUo almostadjoins its banks. The precise site of Pliny's Tuscan villa cannot beascertained, as the terms in which he describes itsposition {Ep. v. 6) will apply to many localities onthe underfills of the Apennines in the upper valleyof the Tiber. It is, however, most probable that it| was situated (as suggested by Cluverius) in theneighbourhood of Borgo S. Sepolero, about 10 milesN. of Citta di CatteUo, rather than in the immediatevicinity of Tifernum. (Cluver. ItaL p. 590.) 2. Tifsrkum Metaurkxsjs was evidently, asits name implies, situated on the other side of tlioApennines, in the valley of the Metaurus. Its nameis mentioned only by Pliny among ancient writers;but it is found in several inscriptions (in which thecitizens are termed, as by Pliny, Tifernates Metau-rcnaea), and the discovery of these at 5. Anytlo mVado leaves no doubt that Tifernum occupied thesame site as that town, near the sources of the Me­taurus, about 20 miles above Fottombront. (ForumSempronii). (Cluver. Ital. p. 621; Orell. liter.3049, 3305, 3902.) It is uncertain which of the towns above mentionedis the Tifernum of Ptolemy (iii. I. § 53); perhapsthe first has the better claim. [E.H.B.] TIFERNUS (*iTt^»of, Ptol.: Bi/ermo), one ofthe most considerable rivers of Samnium, which hasits sources in the heart of that country, near Bovi-anum {Bojuno), in a lofty group of mountains, nowknown by the same name as the river {Monte Bi-Jerno). This is evidently the same which is calledby Livy the Tifkbni's Moss, which the (~ 4 H 4