OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— 71 BOOK IX. soldiers, crowding to the general's quarters, demandedfrom their leaders that succor, which it was hardly inthe power of the immortal gods themselves to affordthem. 3. Night came on while they were employed in la­menting their situation, all urging with warmth what­ever their several tempers prompted. Some cryingout, ' Let us go over those fences which ohstruct theroads;' others, ' over the steeps; through the woods;any way where arms can be carried. Let us be butpermitted to come to the enemy, whom we have beenused to conquer now near thirty years. All places willbe level and plain to a Roman fighting against the per­fidious Samnite.' Another would say, ' Whither, or bywhat way can we go? Do we expect to remove themountains from their foundations? While these cliffshang over us, how can we proceed? Whether armedor unarmed, brave or dastardly, we are all, without dis­tinction, captured and vanquished. The enemy will noteven show us a weapon by which we might die withhonor. He will finish the war without moving fromhis seat.' In such discourse, thinking of neither foodnor rest, they passed the whole night. Nor could theSamnites, though in circumstances so accordant to theirwishes, instantly determine how to act: it was thereforeuniversally agreed that Herennius Pontius, father of thegeneral, should be consulted by letter. He was nowgrown feeble through age, and had withdrawn himself,not only from all military, but also from all civil occu­pations ; yet, notwithstanding the decline of his bodilystrength, his mind retained its full vigor. When hewas informed that the Roman armies were shut up atthe Caudine forks, between the two glens, and wasasked for advice by his son's messenger, he gave hisopinion that they should all be immediately dismissedfrom thence unhurt. On this counsel being rejected,and the same messenger returning to advise with him-a second time, he recommended that they should all,to a man, be put to death. On receiving these answers,so opposite to each other, like the ambiguous responses