OCR Output 170 [book v. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. bringing some of them, and by his exampleencouraging the soldiers to do the same.And when the rock was encompassed roundabout with these faggots, they set them on fire,and threw in whatsoever by nature caughtfire the most easily. So a mighty flame wasraised, and nobody could fly away from therock, but every man perished, with theirwives and children; in all about fifteen hun­dred men; and the rest were a great numberalso. And such was the calamity which fellupon the Shechemites; and men's grief ontheir account had been greater than it was,had they not brought so much mischief on aperson who had so well deserved of them;and had they not themselves esteemed this asa punishment for the same. Now Abimelech, when he had affrightedthe Israelites with the miseries he had broughtupon the Shechemites, seemed openly toaffect greater authority than he now had, andappeared to set no bounds to his violence,unless it were with the destruction of all.Accordingly he marched to Thebez, and tookthe city suddenly, and there being a greattower therein, whereunto the whole multi­tude fled, he made preparation to besiege it.Now as he was rushing with violence nearthe gates, a woman threw a piece of a mill­stone upon his head.* Upon which Abime­lech fell down, and desired his armour-bearerto kill him; lest his death should be thoughtto be the work of a woman. So he under-went this death,f as a punishment for thewickedness he had perpetrated against hisbrethren; and his insolent barbarity to theShechemites. Now the calamity that hap­pened to those Shechemites was according tothe prediction of Jotham. However, the army that was with Abimelech, upon his fall, wasscattered abroad, and went to their ownhomes. Now it was thatJ Jair, the Gileadite, of thetribe of Manasseh, took the government. Hewas a man happy in other respects also; butparticularly in his children; who were of agood character. They were thirty in num­ber; and very skilful in riding on horses, andwere intrusted with the government of thecities of Gilead. He kept the governmenttwenty-two|| years, and died an old man; andhe was buried at Camot, a city of Gilead. And now all the affairs of the Hebrewswere managed uncertainly, and tended todisorder, and to the contempt of God, and ofthe laws. So the Ammonites and Philistineshad them in contempt, and laid waste thecountry with a great army; and when theyhad taken all Perea, they were so insolent asto attempt to gain possession of all the rest.But the Hebrews being now reformed by thecalamities they had undergone, made suppli­cations to God, and brought sacrifices to him;beseeching him not to be too severe; but tobe moved by their prayers to leave off hisanger against them. So God became moremerciful, and was ready to assist them. When the Ammonites had made an expe­dition into the land of Gilead, the inhabitantsof the country met them at a certain moun­tain; but wanted a commander. Now therewas one whose name was Jephtha, who bothon account of his father's virtue, and on ac­count of that army which he maintained athis own expense, was a potent man. TheIsraelites therefore sent to him, and intreatedhim to come to their assistance; promisinghim the dominion over them all his life-time. N * Thus Plutarch relates, that Pyrrhus, at the siege ofArgos, was killed by a woman throwing a tile upon hishead; but there is something more remarkable in Abime-lech's death by a stone, because, as he slew all his bre­thren upon one stone, for him to die by no other instru­ment, carried some stamp of his sin upon it. The mannerof his death, however, puts me in mind of what the sameauthor records of the Spartan general Lysander, who fellingloriously under the wall of Haliartus. "Thus he died,"says he, " but not like Cleombrotus, who was slain while hewas gloriously making head against an impetuous enemy atLeuctra, not like Cyrus, or Epaminondas, who received amortal wound, while 'he was rallying his men, and secu­ring to them the victory. These great men died in theircallings. They died the death of kings and commanders;whereas he, like some common soldier, or one of the for­lorn hope, cast away his life ingloriously; giving this testi- mony to the ancient Spartans, that they did well toavoid storming of walls; in which the stoutest man maychance to fall by the hand, not only of an abject fellow,but by that of a boy, or a woman, as they say Achilles wasslain, in the'gates of Troy, by the hands of the effeminateParis." Patrick's Commentary, and Plutarch's Comp. ofLysander and Sylla. B. t An. 1264. J Our present copies of Josephus all omit Tola amongthe Judges, though the other copies have him next afterAbimelech, and allot 23 years to his administration, Judg.x. 1,2. yet do all Josephus's commentators conclude, thatin Josephus's sum of the years of the Judges, bis 23 yearsare included. Whence we are to confess that somewhathas been here lost out of his copies. II From an. 1241 to 1219 6. C