OCR Output rnAETOBIA AUGUSTA. TRASIACA. 667 i agsiust Camicos in Sicily, in order to« fall of Minos (Herod, vii. 170). ItI by tilt inhabitants of Hierspvtna.l x. p. 479.) Agathocles, the Babylonian,■ tbat the Praesii were accustomed to sacrificei Wfcn murine. (Athen. ix. p. 376.) The: frm .■ ire still called Praetut. (Pashlev,I wl i. p. 2M), «eq.; Hock, A'reta, vol. i. p. CIlUt OK rlUFSL'S <>U PRIASSIS. pinu-RiA AUGUSTA. [Ai'oun-A Prak- UBIVil. There were places of this nuneMb, H"fiftir. and in other countries which■tons wcapiej. A Praetoriutn is the residenceIfrartor sod the seat of the supreme court.Bpai was also used to signify a magnificentMantling. The Table marks a l'raetoriumHaVst a r>md from Aueustoritum (Limoges).Mt Ptsetunam the road divides, one branchMlAlgaatcoeiDetum {Clermont Ftrrand inawaiyai) and the other to Avaricum (Bourges).>»» possible to fix the site of this Praeto-[G. L.] sUfrOBH'lf. 1. A town in the territory ofIsMwt, in the NK. of Hispania Tarraconensis,■ t»» road from Tarracu, in Gaul, to Barcino.Mat p. 39g.) Usually identified with La■aW* there are Mill considerable Roman re-i (Marcs. Hup. ii. 20.)M'najla, J'tol. ii. 3. § 17), a place in the most■W bntancua itaiiana, in the territory of the■■asm there was a separate road from the■Utolboracum (Itm. AnL pp. 464, 466.)Waasl by Camden ( p. 8 71) to be Becerhy inH*> byatbers it baa been variously identifiedBHsyfcat, Utbbrrtlotc, Hornsea, Kingston, jM^aenasjA. S une writers distinguish the Pe-MlWany Coin the l'nsetorium of the Itine-pl Gale (Am. p. 24) identifies the former|M> AM!,, on the /Jerntnt. [T.H.D.]MlOKlLM, Al) {TlpcuTuotov), a place inVManu. south of the Savos, on the road*aa to Sunuam. ( Tab. Ptuting.; I'tol. ii.Wb U was probably a pbux where a court■B •»» held for the inhabitants of the sur-^awtnit, or it contained an imperial palacei put up when travelling; in that[L. S.] IUM AGBIITI NAE. This Prae-> in the Table, and is distinguishedtatKC of a Uiyc building. I) Anvilkit it nay have taken its name fromI daagbter of Ueniuuiicus and the■. who gave hex name to the. ColoniaCulnynr). Tue l'raetorium is placedSB tWtaroruui {Leiden) at the dis-DAarilk ouucludes tliat it is lioom- antiquities have been found. (Ukert, Gallien, p.533.) [G. L.] PRAETO'RIUM I.ATOVICO'RUM, a place inUpper Pannonia, on the site now ocenpied by AYu-stadte, on the river Clurk. (It. Ant. p. 259; Tab.Peuting.. called simply Praetorium.) [L. S.] PBAETU'TU (n^aiTouTTioi, l'tol: Eth. Xlpat-TtTTiavis, Pol.j Praetutiauug), a tribe of CentralItaly, who occupied a district of Picenum, boundedby the river Vomanus on the S. and apparently bythe stream called by Pliny the Albula on the N.This last cannot be identified with certainty, and thetext of Pliny is probably corrupt as well as confused.He appeal's to place the Albula N. of the Trucntus;but it is certain that the Praetutii did not extendus far to the N. as the latter river, and it is probablethat the stream now called the Salinello was theirnorthern limit. We have no account of the originof the Praetutii, or their relation to the Picentes,from whom they seem to have been regarded as tosome extent a distinct people, though more frequentlyiucluded under the one general appellation. The"Ager Praetutianus" is mentioned by Livy and Po-lybius, as well as by Pliny, as a well-known district,and Ptolemy even distinguishes it altogether fromPicenum, in which, however, it was certainly gene­rally comprised. (Pol. iii. 88; Liv. xxii. 9, xxvii.43; Pliu. iii. 13. s. 18; PtoL iii. 1. § 58.) Butthe name seems to have continued in general use,and became corrupted in the middle ages into Pru-tium and Aprutium, from whence tho modern nameof Abmzo (now applied to all the northernmost pro­vinces of the kingdom of Naples) is generally thoughtto be derived. (Blondi Flavii, Italia Illustrata,p. 394.) The chief city of the Praetutii was Inter-atnna, called for distinction's sake Praetutiana, whichunder the name of Teramo is still the chief townof one of the provinces of the Abruzzi Ptolemyalso assigns to thein the town of Beregra. (Ptol./. c.) Pliny mentions the "Ager Palmensis" inclose connection with the Praetutii ("Ager Prae­tutianus Palmensisque," Plin. I.e.); but this appearsto have been only a small district, which was cele­brated, as was the Praetutiun region generally, forthe excellence of its wines. (Plin. xiv. 6. 8. 8;Dioscor. v. 19; Sil. Hal. xv. 568.) [E. H. B. j PRAS (ityas: Eth. Xlpdrrts), a town of Phthiotiain Thessaly, a little S. of Phar.-alus. For its posi­tion see Narthaciim. (Xen. Hell iv. 3. § 9,Ages. 2. § 5; Steph. B. : r.) PRASIACA (npoffioK^, Ptol. vii. 1. § 53), avery extensive and rich district in tho centre oflliiulottan, along the banks of the Ganges and theSons, whose chief town was the celebrated Palibo-thra. The name of its inhabitants, which is writtenwith slight differences in different author*, is mostcorrectly given as Prasii by Strnbo (xv. p. 702, 703),and by Pliny (vi. 19. s. 22), who states that theirking supported daily no less than 150,000 foot,30,000 horse, and 9000 elephants. Diodonis callsthem Praesii (xvii. 93), as does also Plutarch.(Alex. 62.) In Curtius again they occur underthe tonu of Pharrasii (ix. 2. § 3). It was to thuking of the Prasii, Sandrocottus (Chaiulragvpta),that the famous mission of Mcgasthenes by Seleucuatook place. (Plin. £ c; Curt. ix. 2; Appian, Syr.55; Plul. Alex. 62; Justin, xv. 4.) All authorsconcur in stating that this was one of the largest ofthe Indian empires, and extended through the richestpart of India, from the Gauges to the Punjab. Therecan be no doubt that Prasii is a Graecised f *d form for