OCR Output 212 TITUS RESUMES THE SIEGE. [B. V. all the other springs that were without the city, did so farfail that water was sold by distinct measures; whereas theynow have such a great quantity of water for your enemies,as is sufficient not only for drink both for themselves andtheir cattle, but for watering their gardens also. The samewonderful sign you had also experience of formerly, whenthe forementioned king of Babylon made war against us, andwhen he took the city and burnt the temple; while yet Ibelieve the Jews of that age were not so impious as you are.Wherefore, I cannot but suppose that God is fled out of hissanctuary, and stands on the side of those against whom youfight. Now, even a man, if he be but a good man, will flyfrom an impure house, and will hate those that are in it; anddo you persuade yourselves that God will abide with you inyour iniquities, who sees all secret things, and hears what iskept most private ? Now, what crime is there, I pray you,that is so much as kept secret among you, or is concealed byyou ? nay, what is there that is not open to your veryenemies ? for you show your transgressions after a pompousmanner, and contend one with another which of you shall bemore wicked than another; and you make a public demonstra­tion of your injustice, as if it were virtue. However, thereis a place left for your preservation, if you be willing to ac­cept of it; and God is easily reconciled to those that confesstheir faults and repent of them. O hard-hearted wretchesas you are! cast away all your arms, and take pity of yourcountry already going to ruin: return from your wickedways, and have regard to the excellency of that city you aregoing to betray, to that excellent temple, with the donationsof so many countries in it. Who could bear to be the firstthat should set that temple on fire ? who could be willing thatthese things should be no more ? and what is there that canbetter deserve to be preserved ? O insensible creatures, andmore stupid than are the stones themselves! And if youcannot look at these things with discerning eyes, yet, how­ever, have pity upon your families, and set before every oneof your eyes your children, and wives, and parents, whichwill be gradually consumed either by famine or by war. I