OCR Output CHAP. 31. - ROMAN HISTORY. 247 no enemy in the field. The /Equi having put the gar­rison of Corbio to the sword, and taken Ortona, wereattacked by Horatius at Alg.uus. Many of them fellin the action, and the rest driven from the Algidus, andthe cities they had taken. Corbio was levelled with theground, because its inhabitants had betrayed the garri­son. * CHAP. XXXI. Tlic consuls fined by the people. A code of latei proposed. JV1. VALERIUS and Sp. Virginias succeed to the con­sulship, when Rome enjoyed peace, both at home andabroad; but the rainy season brought oh a scarcity ofprovisions. A law was likewise passed for making mountAventine common. The same tribunes were re-chosen,who, in the following year, when T- Romilius, and C.Veturius were consuls, proposed the law in all their as­semblies, declaring, they should be ashamed, now thatthe number of their college had been doubled, if theyshould be disappointed all the'two years of their tribune-ship, as their predecessors had been for the five last years.While the tribunes were wholly intent upon this matter,an express arrived from Tuscnium, with the alarming ac­counts, that the .ffiqui were already in the heart of theircountry. The late noble exertions of that people in fa­vour of Rome, challenged an immediate return; for whichreason both consuls were dispatched with an army, whofound the enemy, as usual, encamped at the Algidus.There they were charged with such vigour, that above70OO fell in the action, and the rest put to flight. The spoils, which were considerable, were sold by theconsuls, and the proceeds put m the treasury, as it hadbeen totally drained. This measure was very unpopu­lar in the army, and in the end furnished the tribuneswith materials for censuring the consuls before the peo­ple. The moment they were out of office, both had a dayappointed for their trial, when Sp. Tarpeius and A.Aterius were consuls. C. Claudius Cicero appeared asprosecutor against Romilius, the ZEdile; L. Alienus,against his colleague Veturius. They were both co»*