OCR Output BOok IV. 413 Pag* 3. Medici« The physicians, the priests and the emperor were2]Jdoubtless in collusion to impose upon the superst itious people, who wereequally ready to be deluded. The miracles of Christ and his apostles,on the contrary, were wrought in the face of prejudice in the popularmind, and of envy and hatred on die part of all the leading men. 8. Igitur. Cf. note, 1, 29. lO. Laeto ... vultu, erecta ... multitudine. These state­ments show how ready all parties were to believe the miracle. 12. Utrumque .... pretium. The dynasty of Vespasian wasno longer on the throne, so that the imperial favor could not now bethe motive of the witnesses. But how was it when they first told thestory, and for a long time afterwards 1 That is the maia question.The fact here stated only proves, that having once told the story, thewitnesses still persisted in it. Voltaire pronounces these the best au­thenticated miracles that are to be found in history, sacred or profane.Hume also adduces them with great confidence, as an offset againstthe Christian miracles. But look at the circumstances above advertedto,—the discrepancy in the written records—the conspiring interest ofthe emperor, the priests and the physicians to get up a miracle—thereadiness of the people to believe it—and the motive of the originalwitnesses in the first place to tell the story, and then to persist in it.Moreover, the cases are expressly declared to have been such in theiroutward appearance, that a deception might easily have been practised.The language of T. (dedita superstitionibus gens, etc.) makes it morethan doubtful whether he believed in any miracle, though he leaves noroom to doubt some of the facts. On this subject, see Paley's Evi­dences, prop. 2, chap. 2. Ch. LXXXII.—15. S a cram sedem, sc. Serapidis. 1 "t« Intentusque numini. Consequently with his back towardsthe door.—Respexit pone tergum, i. e. quum . .. capturus auspicium. .. tandem se convertisset. Suet. Vesp. 7. 18. E primoribus. Suetonius makes Basilides a freedman. 24. Ex. nomine Basilidis, i. e. as prophetic of royal dignity orimperial'power (j3a«AE0s, king). Ch. LXXXIII.—26. Celebrata. Treated, handled. 27. Antistites. Priests (praestites); those who stand before orpreside over religious rites. 28. Q,ui .... primus, i. e. Ptolemy I. There were 13 Ptole­mies in the Macedonian line of Egyptian kings. Ptolemy HI. ismentioned in the next section (quem tertia aetas tulit). 38. E gente Eumolpidarum. Of the family of the Eumol-pidae. Eumolpus was the founder of the Eleusinian Mysteries. Cf.Die. Ant., Euf,oAm'i,K. 1. Eleusine. From Eleusis, a town of Attica, near the right 212bank of the Cephissus at its mouth, whore the Eleusinian Mysteries