OCR Output C. IX.] THE SIEGE. 205 "To spare themselves, to spare their country and their tem­ple, and not to he more obdurate in these cases than foreign­ers themselves: for that the Romans, who had no relation tothose things, had a reverence for their sacred rites and places,although they belonged to their enemies, and had till nowkept their hands off from meddling with them, while such aswere brought up under them, and, if they be preserved, willbe the only people that will reap the benefit of them, hurryon to have them destroyed. That certainly they have seentheir strongest walls demolished, and that the wall still re­maining was weaker than those that were already taken.That they must know the Roman power was invincible, andthat they had been used to serve them; for that in case it beallowed a right thing to fight for liberty, that ought to havebeen done at first; but for them that have once fallen underthe power of the Romans, and have now submitted to themfor so many years, to pretend to shake off that yoke after­ward, was the work of such as had a mind to die miserably,not of such as were lovers of liberty. Besides, men may wellenough grudge at the dishonor of owning ignoble mastersover them, but ought not to do so to those who have all thingsunder their command: for what part of the world is there thathath escaped the Romans, unless it be such as are of no usefor violent heat or for violent cold ? And evident it is thatfortune is on all hands gone over to them ; and that God,when he had gone round the nations with this dominion, isnow settled in Italy. That, moreover, it is a strong and fixedlaw, even among brute beasts as well as among men, to yieldto those that are too strong for them, and to suffer those tohave the dominion who are too hard for the rest in w:ir. Forwhich reason it was that their forefathers, who were far supe­rior to them both in their souls and bodies and other advan­tages, did yet submit to the Komans, which they would nothave suffered, had they not known that God was with them.As for themselves, what can they depend on in this theiropposition, when the greatest part of their city is alreadytaken ? and when those that are within it are under greatermiseries than if they were taken, although their walls be stillIV. —18