OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 385 in his case for once to have exchanged caprice for steadfast­ness, and to have taken a pleasure in loading her favouritewith successes and honours—whether he desired them ornot. But history must be more just towards him than hewas towards himself, and must place him in a higher rankthan that of the mere favourite of fortune. We do not mean that the Sullan constitution was a work Sullu andof political genius, such as those of Gracchus and Caesar. hi» work.There does not occur in it—and, indeed, its very character asa restoration implies that such should be the case—a singlenew idea in statesmanship. All its most essential features—admission to the senate by the holding of the quaestor-ship, the abolition of the censorial right to eject a senatorfrom the senate, the initiative of the senate in legislation, theconversion of the tribunician office into an instrument of thesenate for fettering the imperium, the prolonging of the dura­tion of office to two years, the transference of the commandfrom the popularly elected magistrate to the senatorial pro­consul or proprator, and even the new criminal and municipalarrangements—were not created by Sulla, but were institu­tions which had previously grown out of the oligarchic go­vernment and which he merely regulated and fixed. Andeven as to the horrors attaching to his restoration, the pro­scriptions and confiscations—are they, compared with thedoings of Nasica, Popillius, Opimius, Caepio and so on, any­thing else than a legal embodiment of the traditionaryoligarchic mode of getting rid of opponents? On theRoman oligarchy of this period no judgment can be passedsave one of inexorable and remorseless condemnation; and,like everything else connected with it, the Sullan constitutionis involved in that condemnation. But we do not wrong thesacredness of history through a praise which the gifted cha­racter of a bad man bribes us into bestowing, when we suggestthat Sulla was far less answerable for the Sullan restorationthan the body of the Roman aristocracy which had ruled asa clique for centuries and had every year become more ener­vated and embittered by age, and that all that was insipidand all that was infamous therein is ultimately traceable tothat aristocracy. Sulla reorganized the state, not, however,like the landlord who puts his shattered estate and house­hold in order according to his own discretion, but like thetemporary manager who faithfully obeys his instructions:it is superficial and false in that case to roll the final and vol. in. 2 o