OCR Output an. 377.] 42$ ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ened them to the table by buttons and button­holes, at the place where the crown wassituate: that so on what side soever of thetable one should stand, it might exhibit thevery same view of the exquisite workman­ship, and of the vast expense bestowed uponit. But upon the table itself they engraveda meander: inserting into it very valuablestones, in the middle, like stars of variouscolours; the carbuncle, and the emerald;each of which sent out agreeable rays oflight to the spectators; with such stones ofother sorts also as were most curious, andbest esteemed, as being most precious intheir kind. This meander was surroundedby a texture of net-work: the middle of whichappeared like a rhombus, into which wereinserted rock crystal, and amber: which, bythe appearance they made, gave wonderfuldelight to those that saw them. The chapi­ters of the feet imitated the first buddings oflilies; while their leaves were bent, and laidunder the table: but so that the chives wereseen standing upright within them. Theirbases were made of a carbuncle; and theplate at the bottom, which rested on thatcarbuncle, was one palm deep, and eightfingers in breadth. Now they had engravedupon it, with a very fine tool, and with a greatdeal of pains, a branch of ivy and tendrils ofthe vine, sending forth clusters of grapes:that you would guess they were no way dif­ferent from real tendrils. For they wereeo very thin, and so far extended at theirextremities, that they were moved with thewind, and made one believe they were theproduct of nature, and not the represen­tation of art. They also made the entireworkmanship of the table appear to be three­fold; while the joints of the several partswere so united together as to be invisible,and the places where they joined could notbe distinguished. Now the thickness of thetable was not less than half a cubit. So thatthis gift by the king's great generosity, bythe great value of the materials, and the va­riety of its exquisite structure, and the arti­ficers' skill in imitating nature with gravingtools, was at length brought to perfection:while the king was very desirous, thatthough in largeness it were not to be dif­ferent from that which was already dedicatedto God; yet that in the exquisite workman­ ship, novelty of contrivance, and splendourof construction, it should far exceed it. Now there were two cisterns of gold; eachof which was engraven with scale-work, fromits basis to its belt-like circle, with varioussorts of stones inchased in the spiral circles.Next to which there was upon it a meander,of a cubit in height, and composed of stonesof all sorts of colours. And next to this wasthe rod-work engraven; and next to that wasa rhombus, in a texture of net-work, drawnout to the brim of the bason: while smallshields made of beautiful stones, and of fourfingers' depth, filled up the middle parts.About the top of the bason were wreathedthe leaves of lilies, and of the convolvulus,and the tendrils of vines, in a circular man­ner. And this was the construction of thetwo cisterns of gold; each containing twofirkins. But those which were of silverwere much more bright and splendid thanlooking-glasses; and you might in them seethe images that fell upon them more plainlythan in the other. The king also orderedthirty vials, those of which the parts thatwere of gold, and not filled up with preciousstones, were shadowed over with the leavesof ivy, and of vines artificially engraven. Andthese were the vessels that were after an ex­traordinary manner brought to this perfec­tion; partly by the skill of the workmen, whowere admirable in such fine work; but muchmore by the diligence and generosity of theking; who not only supplied the artificer*abundantly, and with what they wanted, buteven suspended public audiences for the time;and came and stood by the workmen, andsaw the whole operation. And this was thecause why the workmen were so accurate intheir performance: because they had regardto the king, and to his great concern aboutthe vessels: and so the more indefatigablyattended to the work. And these gifts were sent by Ptolemy toJerusalem, and dedicated to God there. Butwhen Eleazar, the high-priest, had devotedthem to God, and had paid due respects tothose that brought them; and had given thempresents to be carried to the king, he let themgo back to the king. And when they werecome, and the seventy elders were come also,he presently sent for Andreas and Aristeus,his ambassadors. Accordingly they came to ?/ V