OCR Output 484 ROMAN EMPIRE. and religious freedom of their posterity. The epithet ofMartel, the Hammer, which has been added to the nameof Charles, is expressive of his weighty and irresistiblestrokes: the valour of Eudes was excited by resentmentand emulation; and their companions, in the eye of his­tory, are the true peers and paladins of French chivalry.After a bloody field, in which Abderame was slain, theSaracens, in the close of the evening, retired to theircamp. In the disorder and despair of the night, the va­rious tribes of Yemen and Damascus, of Africa andSpain, were provoked to turn their arms against eachother: the remains of their host were suddenly dis­solved, and each emir consulted his safety by a hastyand separate retreat. At the dawn of day, the stillnessof a hostile camp was suspected by the victorious Chris­tians: on the report of their spies, they ventured to ex­plore the riches of the vacant tents; but, if we exceptsome celebrated relics, a small portion of the spoil wasrestored to the innocent and lawful owners. The joyfultidings were soon diffused over the Catholic world, andthe monks of Italy could affirm and believe that threehundred and fifty, or three hundred and seventy-fivethousand of the Mahometans had been crushed by thehammer of Charles;' while no more than fifteen hun­dred Christians were slain in the field of Tours. Butthis incredible tale is sufficiently disproved by the cau­tion of the French general, who apprehended the snaresand accidents of a pursuit, and dismissed his Germanallies to their native forests. The inactivity of a con­queror betrays the loss of strength and blood, and themost cruel execution is inflicted, not in the ranks ofbattle, but on the backs of a flying enemy. Yet the vic­ * These numbers are stated by Paul Wamefirid, the deacon of Aquileia (de GectisLangobard. lib. 6. p. 921. edit , Grot.) and Anastasius, the librarian of the Romanchurch, (in Vit. Gregorii II.) who tells a miraculous story of three consecratedsponges, which rendered invulnerable the French soldiers among whom they hadbeen shared. It should seem, that in his letters to the pope, Eudes usurped the ho­nour of the victory, for which he was chastised by the French annalists, who. withequal falsehood, accuse him of inviting the Saracens.