OCR Output 216 THE FAMINE. [b. V. some part of what they had brought; though these would notgive them the least crumb, and they were to be well con­tented that they were only spoiled, and not slain at the sametime. 4. These were the afflictions which the lower sort of thepeople suffered from these tyrants' guards; but for the menthat were in dignity, and withal were rich, they were carriedbefore the tyrants themselves, some of which were falsely ac­cused of laying treacherous plots, and so were destroyed;others of them were charged with designs of betraying thecity to the Romans ; but the readiest way of all was this, tosuborn somebody to affirm that they were resolved to desertto the enemy. And he who was utterly despoiled of what hehad by Simon was sent back again to John, as of those whohad been already plundered by John, Simon got what re­mained ; insomuch that they drank the blood of the populaceto one another, and divided the dead bodies of the poor crea­tures between them; so that although, on account of theirambition after dominion, they contended with each other, yetdid they very well agree in their wicked practices, for he thatdid not communicate what he got by the miseries of others tothe other tyrant, seemed to be too little guilty, and in onerespect only, and he that did not partake of what was socommunicated to him, grieved at this as at the loss of whatwas a valuable thing, that he had no share in such barbarity. 5. It is therefore impossible to go distinctly over every in­stance of these men's iniquity. I shall, therefore, speak mymind here at once briefly, that neither did any other city eversuffer such miseries, nor did any age ever breed a generationmore fruitful in wickedness than this was, from the beginningof the world. Finally, they brought the Hebrew nation intocontempt, that they might themselves appear comparativelyless impious with regard to strangers. They confessed, whatwas true, that they were the slaves, the scum, and the spu­rious and abortive offspring of our nation, while they over­threw the city themselves, and forced the Romans, whetherthey would or no, to gain a melancholy reputation by actinggloriously against them, and did almost draw that fire upon