OCR Output Chap. VIII.] THE EAST AND KING MITHRADATES." 309 ceiving that much comparatively beyond expectation was ob­tained and that more was not obtainable, concluded thepreliminaries and an armistice on these conditions, and with­drew the troops from the places which the Asiatics stillpossessed in Europe. But Mithradates rejected the peace New diffi-and demanded at least that the Romans should not insist on culties-the surrender of the war-vessels and should concede to himPaphlagonia; while he at the same time asserted thatFimbria was ready to grant him far more favourable condi­tions. Sulla, offended by this placing of his offers on anequal footing with those of a private adventurer, and havingalready gone to the utmost measure of concession, broke offthe negotiations. He had employed the interval to reor­ganize Macedonia and to chastise the Dardani, Sinti, andMaedi, in doing which he at once procured booty for hisarmy and. drew nearer Asia; for he was resolved at any Sulla pro­rate to go thither, in order to come to a settlement with ceeds toFimbria. He now at once put his legions stationed in Aiila-Thrace as well as his fleet in motion towards the Hellespont.'Then at length Archelaus succeeded in wringing from hisobstinate master a reluctant consent to the treaty; forwhich he was subsequently regarded with an evil eye atcourt as the author of the injurious peace, and even accusedof treason, so that some time afterwards he found himselfcompelled to leave the country and to take refuge with theRomans who readily received him and loaded him withhonours. The Roman soldiers murmured; their disap­pointment doubtless at not receiving the expected spoilof Asia probably contributed to that murmuring more thantheir indignation—in itself very justifiable—that the barba­rian prince, who had murdered eighty thousand of their coun­trymen and had brought unspeakable misery on Italy andAsia, should be allowed to return home unpunished withthe greatest part of the treasures which he had collected bythe pillage of Asia. Sulla himself was probably painfullysensible that the political complications thwarted in a mostvexatious way a task which was in a military point of view sosimple, and compelled him after such victories to content him- character of the victor and of the vanquished, far from credible, and it is notgiven by Appian or by Licinianus. They neglected to draw up the treaty ofpeace in writing, and this neglect afterwards left room for various misrepre­sentations.