OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. perfects, and entrusted to their care the same pro­vinces which they already administered. 1. Thepreefect of the East stretched his ample jurisdictioninto the three parts of the globe which were subjectto the Romans, from the cataracts of the Nile to thebanks of the Phasis, and from the mountains ofThrace to the frontiers of Persia. 2. The import­ant provinces of Pannonia, Dacia, Macedonia, andGreece, once acknowledged the authority of the pre­fect of Illyricum. 3. The power of the praefect ofItaly was not confined to the country from whencehe derived his title; it extended over the additionalterritory of Rhaetia as far as the banks of the Danube,over the dependent islands of the Mediterranean,.and over that part of the continent of Africa whichlies between the confines of Cyrene and those ofTingitania. 4. The prasfect of the Gauls compre­hended under that plural denomination the kindredprovinces of Britain and Spain, and his authoritywas obeyed from the wall of Antoninus to the foot ofMount Atlas*. After the Praetorian praefects had been dismissedfrom all military command, the civil functions whichthey were ordained to exercise over so many subjectnations were adequate to the ambition and abilitiesof the most consummate ministers. To their wisdomwas committed the supreme administration of j usticeand of the finances, the two objects which, in a stateof peace, comprehend almost all the respective dutiesof the sovereign and of the people; of the former, toprotect the citizens who are obedient to the laws;of the latter, to contribute the share of their pro­perty which is required for the expenses of the state.The coin, the highways, the posts, the granaries, the * Zosimus, 1. ii. p. 109, 110. If we had not fortunately possessed this satis.factory account of the division of the power and provinces of the Prtetorianprefects, we should frequently have been perplexed amidst the copious details ofthe Code, and the circumstantial minuteness of the Notitia.