OCR Output 158 ROMAN EMPIRE. the iron temper of a soldier, which cannot easily beparalleled, except in the lives of Richard I. of England,and of Charles XII. of Sweden. Such was his strengthand exercise in arms, that Raymond, surnamed theHercules of Antioch, was incapable of wielding thelance and buckler of the Greek emperor. In a famoustournament, he entered the lists on a fiery courser, andoverturned in his first career two of the stoutest of theItalian knights. The first in the charge, the last in theretreat, his friends and his enemies alike trembled, theformer for his safety, and the latter for their own. Af足ter posting an ambuscade in a wood, he rode forth inquest of some perilous adventure, accompanied only byhis brother and the faithful Axuch, who refused to de足sert their sovereign. Eighteen horsemen, after a shortcombat, fled before them: but the numbers of the ene足my increased; the march of the reinforcement wastardy and fearful, and Manuel, without receiving awound, cut his way through a squadron of the Turks.In a battle against the Hungarians, impatient of theslowness of his troops, he snatched a standard from thehead of the column, and was the first, almost alone, whopassed a bridge that separated him from the enemy. Inthe same country, after transporting his army beyondthe Save, he sent back the boats, with an order, underpain of death, to their commander, that he should leavehim to conquer or die on that hostile land. In thesiegeof Corfu, towing after him a captive galley, the emperorstood aloft on the poop, opposing against the volley ofdarts and stones, a large buckler and a flowing sail; norcould he have escaped inevitable death, had not the Si足cilian admiral enjoined his archers to respect the personof a hero. In one day, he is said to have slain aboveforty of the barbarians with his own hand; he returnedto the camp, dragging along four Turkish prisoners,whom he had tied to the rings of his saddle: he wasever the foremost to provoke or to accept a single com-