OCR Output SELEUCIS. 955 SELGE. ■il Cntm did not himself reach Seleuceia. On • sivime of Trajan from Asia Minor, Seleuceiau taken by Erucius Cams and Julius Alexander,•:;artully burnt to the ground (Dion Cass, lxviii.));indafew years later it was still more com-itclt aatroyed by Cassius, the general of Luciusru, daring the war with Vologeses. (Dion Cass.U.S; Eutiop. t. 8; Capitol. Vena, c. 8.) When -Tn, during the Parthian War, descended theijintes, be appears to bare found Seleuceia andiilon equally abandoned and desolate. (Dionav Iiit. 9.) Still later, in his expedition to theat, Julian found the whole country round Seleu-> m Tart marsh full of wild game, which hisam hunted. (Amtn. Marc. xxiv. 5.) It woulda from the indistinct notices of some authors,■'■ SeJenoria once bore the name of Cnclie.ocni.] [V.]SELEUCIS (2«A«v«if), a district of Syria, men­ial by Ptolemy ,as containing the cities of Gephura,idani», and Imina (r. 15. § 15). Strabo calls iti bat of ill the districts: it was also calledrapolis, on account of its four most important■, for it had many. These fonr were, Antioch,■oris in Pieria. Apameia, and Laodiceia (xvi.149). It also comprehended, according to Strabo,r u!npies ; and it is clear that he uses the namei mod) wider cense than Ptolemy, who places ther ritiaa of the tetrapolis of Strata's Seleucis in so>T separate districts; Antioch in Cassiotis,ineia in Apamene, Laodiceia in Laodicene, whiletalj implies, but does not state, that Seleuceia liesWraria. [G. W.] i£LGE (2i\yr): Elk. 2fVy«oi), an important m Piaidia, on the soul hem slope of Mountiris, at the part where the river Eurymcdones its way through the mountains towards thea. The town was believed to be a Greek colony,Strabo (xii. p. 520) states that it was founded-uvsiirrnonians, but adds the somewhat unin-r>bie remark that previously it had been founded■alcbaa (Cotnp. Polyb. v. 76; Steph. B. ». v.;L Per. 858). The acropolis of Selge bore the • ofCesbedium (K«r£<Siov; Polyb. I.e.) Thevt in which the town was situated was ex-fcly fertile, producing abundance of oil and wine,tbt town itself was difficult of access, beingw>W by precipices and beds of torrents flowingrda the Euxymedon and Oestrus, and requiring[a to make them passable. In consequence ofxcrllent haws and political constitution, Selge*> the rank of the most powerful and populous I i'isiJia. and at one time was able to sendray of 20,000 men into the field. Owing to:t unutanccB, and the valour of its inhabitants,aica they were regarded as worthy kinsmen of-•▼daemon!ana, the Selgians were never subject7 I ceign power, but remained in the enjoyment■nr own freedom and independence. Whenaader the Great passed through Pisidia, theDt sent an embassy to him and gained hisr aad friendship. (Arrian, A nab. i. 28.) Atirae they were at war with the Telmissians. At lowing terms: they agreed to Selgians were at war withbesieged by them; andma, ea tb« invitation of Pednelissus, sent afare* against Selge. After a long and vigorous. the Selgians, being betrayed and despairing ofiag Arbaeui any longer, sent deputies to suegranted to them on the fol- pay immediately400 talents, to restore the prisoners of Pednelissus,and after a time to pay 300 talents in addition.(Polyb. v. 72—77.) We now have for a long timono particulars about the history of Selge: in thofifth century of our era Zosimus (v. 15) calls itindeed a little town, but it was still strong enoughto repel a body of Goths. It is Btrange that Plinydoes not notice Selge, for we know from its coinsthat it was still a flourishing town in the time ofiladrinn; and it is also mentioned in Ptolemy (v. 5.§ 8) and Hierocles (p. 681). Independently of wineand oil, the country about Selge was rich in timber,and a variety of trees, among which the storax wasmuch valued from its yielding a strong perfume.Selge was also celebrated for an ointment preparedfrom the iris root. (Stmb. L c; Plin. xii. 55, xxi.19; comp. Liv. xxxv. 13.) Sir C. Fellows (AiiaMinor, p. 171, foil.) thinks that he has discoveredthe ruins of Selge about 10 miles to the north-eastof the village of Uoojak. They are seen on a loftypromontory now presenting magnificent wrecks ofgrandeur." "I rode," says Sir Charles, " at least3 miles through a part of the city, which was onepile of temples, theatres, and buildings, vying with each other in splendour The material of these ruins had suffered much from the exposure to theelements, being grey with a lichen which has euteninto the marble, and entirely destroyed the surfaceand inscriptions; but the scale, the simple grandeur,and the uniform beauty of style bespoke its date tobe the early Greek. The sculptured cornices fre­quently contain groups of figures fighting, wearinghelmets and body-armour, with shields and Jongspears; from the ill-proportioned figures and generalappearance, they must rank in date with tho Aeginamarbles. The ruins are so thickly strewn, that littlecultivation is practicable; but in the areas of theatres,cellas of temples, and any space where a plough canbe used, the wheat is springing up. The generalstyle of the temples is Corinthian, but not so floridas in less ancient towns. The tombs are scatteredfur a mile from the town, and are of many kinds,some cut in chambers in face of the rock, otherssarcophagi of the heaviest form: they have had in­scriptions, and the ornaments are almost all martial;several seats remain among the tombs. I canscarcely guess the number of temples or columnedbuildings in the town, but I certainly traced fifty orsixty Although apparently unnecessary fur de­fence, the town has had strong walls, partly builtwith large stones in the Cyclopean mode.... I neverconceived so high an idea of the works of the ancientsas from my visit to this place, standing as it does ina situation, as it were, above the world." It is tobe regretted that it was impossible by means ofinscriptions or coins to identify this place with theancient Selge more satisfactorily. (Comp. VonHammer, in the H'iener Jahrbiicher, vol. cvi. p.92.) [L. S.] COIN UK StLUK.