OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL gagement, he would shut himself up within the walls of Rome.His ample magazines secured him against the danger of famine;and as the situation of Constantine admitted not of delay, he mighthave been reduced to the sad necessity of destroying with fire andsword the imperial city, the reward of his victory, and the deliveranceof which had been the motive, or rather indeed the pretence, of thecivil war6f. It was with equal surprise and pleasure, that on hi6 arrivalat a place called 5axa Rubra, about nine miles from Rome66, hediscovered the army of Maxentius prepared to give him battle67.Their long front filled a very spacious plain, and their deep arrayreached to the banks of the Tyber, which covered their rear, andforbade their retreat. We ate informed, and we may bplieve, thatConstantine disposed his troops with consummate skill, and that hechose for himself the post of honour and danger. Distinguishedby tbe splendour of his arms, he charged in person the cavalry ofhis rival; and his irresistible attack determined the fortune of theday. The cavalry of Maxentius was principally composed eitherof unwieldy cuirassiers, or of light Moors and Numidians. Theyyielded to the vigour of the Gallic horse, which possessed more acti­vity than the one, more firmness than the other. The defeat ofthe two wings left the infantry without any protection On itsflanks, and the undisciplined Italians fled without reluctance fromthe standard of a tyrant whom they had always hated, and whomthey no longer feared. The Prætorians, conscious that their of­fences were beyond the reach of mercy, were animated by revengeand despair. Notwithstanding their repeated efforts, those brave vete­rans were unable to recover the victory: they obtained, however, anhonourable death; and it was observed, that their bodies covered thefame ground which had been occupied by their ranks68. The confusionthen became general, and the dismayed troops of Maxentius, pursuedby an implacable enemy, rushed by thousands into the deep and rapidstream of the Tyber. The emperor himself attempted to escape back