OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 99 assemblies, the comitia, though they were far from dealingstrictly with the point of qualification, it was on the wholeburgesses alone that appeared, in the mere popular assem­blages on the other hand—the contiones—every one in theshape of a man was entitled to take his place and to shout,Egyptians and Jews, street-boys and slaves. Such a "meet­ing " certainly had no significance in the eyes of the law; itcould neither vote nor decree. But it practically ruled thestreet, and already the opinion of the street was a powerin Rome, so that it was of some importance whether thisconfused mass received the communications made to it withsilence or shouts, whether it applauded and rejoiced, orhissed and howled at the orator. Not many had the courageto lord it over the populace as Scipio ./Emiliauus did, whenthey hissed him on account of his expression as to the deathof his brother-in-law. "Ye," he said, " to whom Italy is notmother but step-mother, ought to keep silence!" and whentheir fury grew still louder, "surely you do not think that Iwill fear those let loose, whom 1 sent in chains to theslave-market?" That the rusty machinery of the comitia should be madeuse of for the elections and for legislation, was bad enough.But when those masses—the comitia primarily, and practi­cally also the contiones—were permitted to interfere in theadministration, and the instrument which the senate em­ployed to prevent such interferences was wrested out of itshands; when this so-called burgess-body was allowed todecree to itself lands and all their appurtenances out ofthe public purse; when any one, whom circumstances andhis influence with the proletariate enabled to command thestreets for a few hours, found it possible to impress on hisprojects the legal stamp of the sovereign people's will, Romehad reached not the beginning, but the end of popular freedom—had arrived not at democracy, but at monarchy. For thatreason, in the previous period Cato and those who shared hisviews never brought such questions before the burgesses, butdiscussed them only in the senate (ii. 359). For that reason,Gracchus' contemporaries, the men of the Scipionic circle,described the Flaminian agrarian law of 522—the first step 232iu that fatal career—as the beginning of the decline of Romangreatness. For that reason, they allowed the author of thedomain-distribution to fall, and saw in his dreadful end as itwere a means of warding off similar attempts in future, whileyet they maintained and turned to account with all their