OCR Output VIA FLAMINIA1299 VIA FLAMINIA. of the Itinerary, though there are several variations in the route. Now, if we apply what has been sail] to theremark of Strabo, that the distance from Thessa-lonica was the same whether the traveller startedfrom Epidamnns (I)yrrachium) or from Apollonia,it is difficult to perceive how such could havebeen the esse if the junction of the two branchesexisted in his time also at Clodiana; since, as wehave already seen, it was 16 miles farther to thatplace from Apollonia than from Dyrracliium ac­cording to the Itin. Ant.; and the Itin. Hierosol.makes it 24 miles farther. Indeed the maps wouldseam to show that if the two branches were of equallength their junction moat have taken place to theE. of Lake Lychnitis; the branch from Dyrracliiumpassing to the N. of that lake, and that from Apol­lonia to the S. But, although Burmeister, in hisreview of Tafel's work (in Zimmerman's ZeUschriftfur die AUerVammcitsemchaJl, 1840, p. 1148).adopted such an hypothesis, and placed the junctionat Heraclcia, it does not appear that the assumptionran be supported by any authority. Clodiana, where the two branches of the Via, or Candaria, united, was seated on the riveri (the Tjrrma or Skumbi). From this pointthe valley of the river naturally indicated the courseof the road to the E. (Leake, Northern Greece,voL iii. p. 313.) We will now proceed to consider the second, oreastern, portion of the Egnatian Way, viz., that be­tween Tbessalonica and Cypsela. The whole length of this route, according toStrabo, was 268 Roman miles; and the distances setdown in the Itin. Ant. amount very nearly to thatanna, or to 265, as follows, (find, and Parth. p.157; Wess. p. 330, seq.) Apollonia - - 36 miles. Amphipolia - 32 » Philippi ... . 32 n Acontisma - 21 Otopiaus (Topims) • 18 If Stabulum Dioinedis • 22 „ Maxinuanopolis - • • 18 " Brixice or Brendice - 20 11 Trajanopolis - 37 II Cypnela ... - 29 265 n Another roots given in the same Itinerary (Wess.p. .320, seq.) does not greatly vary from the above,iat im not carried on to Cypsela. This adds ther-.llowing stations:—Melisaurgis, between Thessalo-tuzM su*d Apollonia, Neapolis, between l'hilippi and4.ct*ntisma, Cosintas, which according to Tafel (parsi. p. 21) is meant for the river Cossinites, be-«tvn Topirus and Maximianopolis, anil Milolitnmin I Tempyra, between Brendice and Trajanopnlis."he ltio. Hierosol. makes the distance only 250 of the Egnatian Way are said tostill traceable, especially in the neighbourhood of[ 111 n— wlnnira (Beaujour, Voy.mUUairt dam t E'm-•rw Odman. vol. i. p. 205.) [T. U.D.] VIA FLAMINIA (>) ♦AomWo. His), one of the-lost ancient and important of the highroads ofImly. which led from Home direct to Ariminnm,nd nasiv be considered as the Great A'ortA Road ofRoensna, being the principal and most frequentedme oaf communication with the whole of the northI tally. It was also one of the first of the great highways of which we know with certainty the periodof construction, having been made by C. Flaminiusduring his censorship (b. c. 220), with the expresspurpose of opening a free communication with theGaulish territory, which he had himself reduced tosubjection a few years before. (Liv.rTpir.xx.) It istherefore certainly a mistake, when Strabo ascribes itto C. Flaminius (the son of the preceding), who wasconsul together with M. Aetnilius Lepidus, theauthor of the Aemilian Way, in B. c. 187, and him­self constructed a road from Bnmmia to Arretium.(Liv. xxxix. 2 ; Strab. v. p. 217.) It is certainthat the Flaminian Way was in existence long be­fore, and its military importance was already feltand known in the Second Funic War, when theconsul Sempronius proceeded by it to Ariminum, towatch the movements and oppose the advance ofHannibal. (Liv. zzii. 11.) Throughout the periodof the Republic, as well as under the Empire, it wasone of the best known and most frequented of thehighways of Italy. Cicero, in one of the Philippics,says there were three ways which led from Rome toCisalpine Gaul: the Klamiiiian by the Upper Sea (theAdriatic), the Aurelian by the Lower, and the Cas-sian through the midst of Etruria (/'Aft xii. 9).During the contest between the generals of Vespa­sian and Vitellius (a. d. 69) the military importanceof the Flaminian Way was fully brought out, and itwas felt that its possession would be almost decisivoof the victory. (Tac. Hut. L 86, iii. 52, Ac.)Tacitus alludes to the extent to which this greathighway was at this period frequented, and the conse­quent bustle and crowding of the towns on its course(/6. ii. 64). Most of these, indeed, seem to havegrown up into flourishing and populous places, mainlyin consequence of the traffic along the line of ruad. So important a highway was naturally the objectof much at!ention.and great pains were taken not onlyto maintain, but to restore and improve it. Thus, inB.C. 27, when Augustus assigned the care of the otherhighways to different persons of consular dignity, hereserved for himself that of the Via Flaminia, andcompletely restored it throughout its wlude lengthfrom Rome to Ariminum, a service which « as acknow­ledged by the erection of two triumphal archesin his honour, one at Rome, the other at Ariminum,the latter of which is still standing. [AntMUil'M.]Again, at a later period, Vespasian added materiallyto the convenience of the road by constructing atunnel through the rock at a place called Interns*,now known as fl r'urlo, a work which still subcistain its integrity. [Isttkiuha.] This remarkablepassage is jtarticularly noticed by the poet Claudian,who has left us a general description of the Flami­nian Way, by which the emperor Honorius proceeded,in A. D. 404, from Ravenna to Rome. (Claudian,els VI. Com. Uon. 494—522.) Indeed, it is evi­dent that in the latter ages of the Empire, when theemperors for the most part took up their residenceat Mediolanum or Ravenna, the Flaminian Way,which constituted the direct line of communicationbetween those cities and Rome, must have become ofstill greater imjwrtance than before. One proof of the important influence exercised bythis great line of highway, is afforded by the circum­stance that, like the Aemilian Way, it gave name toone of the provinces of Italy in the later division ofthat country under tlie Empire; though, by a strangeconfusion or perverseness, the name of Flaminia wasgiven, not to the part of I'mbria which was actual iyby the Via Flaminia, but to the eastern 4 o 2