OCR Output AN. 20.] 571 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in order to secure and guard the temple, hegratified Antonius, who was his friend, andthe Roman ruler; and he then gave it thename of the tower of Antonia. Now in the western quarters of the inclo-sure of the temple, there were four gates.The first led to the king's palace, and wentto a passage over the intermediate valley;two more led to the suburbs of the city; andthe last led to the other city, where the roaddescended down into the valley by a greatnumber of steps, and thence up again by theascent. For the city lay over against thetemple, in the manner of a theatre, and wasencompassed with a deep valley, along theentire south quarter. But the fourth front ofthe temple, which was southward, had indeeditself *gates in its middle; as also it had theroyal cloisters, with three walks, whichreached in length from the east valley, untothat on the west: for it was impossible itshould reach any farther. And this cloisterdeserves to be mentioned better than anyother under the sun. For while the valleywas very deep, and its bottom could not beseen, if you looked from above into thedepth, this farther vastly high elevation ofthe cloister stood upon that height: insomuchthat if any one looked down from the top ofthe battlements or down both those altitudes,he would be giddy; while his sight could notreach to such an immense depth. Thiscloister had pillars that stood in four rows,one over against the other all along; for thefourth row was interwoven into the wall,which also was built of stone. And thethickness of each pillar was such, that threemen might, with their arms extended, fathomit round, and join their hands again: whileits length was twenty-seven feet, with adouble spiral at its basis. And the numberof all the pillars in that court was a hundredand sixty-two. Their chapiters were adornedwith sculptures, after the Corinthian order;and caused an amazement to the spectators,by reason of the grandeur of the whole.These four rows of pillars included three intervals for walking in the middle of thiscloister. Two of which walks were madeparallel to each other, and were contrivedafter the same manner: the breadth of eachof them was thirty feet; the length was atfurlong; and the height fifty feet. ' But thebreadth of the middle part of the cloisterwas one and a half of the breadth of theother; and the height was double; for it wasmuch higher than those on each side. Butthe roofs were adorned with deep sculpturesin wood; representing many sorts of figures.The middle was much higher than the rest;and the wall of the front was adorned withbeams, resting upon pillars, that were inter­woven into it; and that front was all of po­lished stone; insomuch that its fineness, tosuch as had not seen it, was incredible; andsuch as had seen it, was greatly amazing.Thus was the first inclosure. In the midst ofwhich, and not far from it, was the second;to be gone up to by a few steps. This wasencompassed by a stone wall, for a partition;with an inscription, which forbade any fo­reigner to go in under pain of death. Nowthis inner inclosure had on its southern andnorthern quarters three gates, equidistantfrom each other. But on the east quarter,towards the sun-rising, there was one largegate: through which such as were pure camein together with their wives. But the templefarther inward in that gate was not allowedto the women. But still more inward wasthere a third court of the temple; whereintoit was not lawful for any but the priests aloneto enter. The temple itself was within this:and before that temple was the altar; uponwhich we offer our sacrifices and burnt-offer­ings to God. IntoJ none of these three didHerod enter: for he was forbidden; becausehe was not a priest. However, he took careof the cloisters, and the outer inclosures; andthese he built in eight years. But the temple itself was built by thepriests in a year and six months. Upon whichall the people were full of joy: and presentlythey returned thanks, in the first place to God, * The number of these gates is wanting. t Four hundred cubits, each cubit about twenty-oneinches. { Into none of these three did king Herod enter, i. e.1. Not into the court of the priests: 2. Nor into the holyhouse itself: 3. Nor into the separate place belonging to voL. I.—NOS. 47 & 48. the altar; as the words following imply. For none butthe priests, or their attendants the Levites, might comeinto any of them. See XVI. 4. Where Herod goes intothe temple, and makes a speech in it to the people. Butthat could only be into the court of Israel; whither thepeople could come to hear him. 4T