OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 379 If in this instance he appeared lenient, he showed on theother hand in the case of Ofella that he was not disposedto allow his marshals to take advantage of him; as soon asthe latter had appeared unconstitutionally as candidate,Sulla had him cut down in the public market-place, andthen explained to the assembled citizens that the deed wasdone by his orders and the reason for doing it. So this signi­ficant opposition of the staff to the new order of things wasno doubt silenced for the present; but it continued to subsistand furnished the practical commentary on Sulla's saying, thatwhat he did on this occasion could not be done a second time. One thing still remained—perhaps the most difficult of Restorationall: to bring the exceptional state of things into accord- ofconstitu-ance with the paths prescribed by the new or old laws. It tionRlorde>-was facilitated by the circumstance, that Sulla never lostsight of this as his ultimate aim. Although the Valerianlaw gave him absolute power and gave to each of his ordi­nances the force of law, he had nevertheless availed himselfof this extraordinary prerogative only in the case of measureswhich were of transient importance and to take part inwhich would simply have uselessly compromised the senateand burgesses, especially in the case of' the proscriptions.Ordinarily he had himself observed those regulations whichhe prescribed for the future. That the people was con­sulted, we read in the law as to the quaestors which is stillin part extant; and the same is attested of other laws, e.g.the sumptuary law and those regarding the confiscations ofdomains. In like manner the senate was previously con­sulted in the more important administrative acts, such asin the sending forth and recall of the African army and inthe conferring of the charters of towns. In the same spirit i I Sulla caused consuls to be elected even for 673, through which 8ilf?/at least the odious custom of dating officially by the regency * was avoided; nevertheless the power still lay exclusivelywith the regent, and the election was directed so as tofall on secondary personages. But in the following year(674) Sulla revived the ordinary constitution in full effi- 80.ciency, and administered the state as consul in concert withhis comrade in arms Quintus Metellus, retaining the regency,but allowing it for the time to lie dormant. He saw wellhow dangerous it was for his own very institutions to per­petuate the military dictatorship. "When the new state ofthings seemed likely to hold its ground and the largest and