OCR Output 10 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW'S. Book IX. ail went in haste, as to an advantage already gained, and cameto the enemies' camp, as supposing them destroyed already.But their hope deceived them, for as their enemies stoodround about them, some of them were cut to pieces, and othersof them were dispersed, and fled to their own country. Andwhen the kings fell into the land of Moab, they overthrew thecities that were in it, and spoiled their fields, and marred them,filling them with stones out of the brooks, and cut down thebest of their trees, and stopped up their fountains of water, andoverthrew their walls to their foundations. But the king ofMoab, when he was pursued, endured a siege, and seeing hiscity in danger of being overthrown by force, made a sally, andwent out with seven hundred men, in order to break throughthe enemies' camp with his horsemen, on that side where thewatch seemed to be kept most negligently : and when, upon trial,he could not get away, for he light upon a place that was care­fully watched, he returned into the city, and did a thing thatshowed despair and the utmost distress; for he took his eldestson, who was to reign after him, and lifting him up upon thewall, that he might be visible to all the enemies, he offered himas a whole burnt-offering to God, whom, when the kings saw,they commiserated the distress that was the occasion of it, andwere so affected, in way of humanity and pity, that they raisedthe siege, and every one returned to his own house. So Jeho-shaphat came to Jerusalem, and continued in peace there, andout-lived this expedition but a little time, and then died, havinglived in all sixty years, and of them reigned twenty-five. Hewas buried in a magnificent manner in Jerusalem, for he hadimitated the actions of David. CHAP. IV. Jehoram succeeds Jehoshaphat.- how Joram, his namesake, king ofIsrael, fought with the Syrians ,- and what wonders were doneby the prophet Elisha. § 1. JEHOSHAPHAT had a good number of children; buthe appointed his eldest son Jehoram, to be his successor, whohad the same name with his mother's brother, that was king ofIsrael, and the son of Ahab. Now when the king of Israel wascome out of the land of Moab to Samaria, he had with him Elishathe prophet, whose acts I have a mind to go over particularly,for they were illustrious and worthy to be related, as we haveset them down in the sacred books. 2. For they say that the * widow of Obadiah, Ahab's steward, * That this woman who cried to Elisha, and who in our Bible is styled thewrfc of one of the sans of the jtrojihets, 2 Kings iv. 1. was no other than the