OCR Output CHAP. XUV.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. forfeit of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a limbfor a limb, is rigorously exacted, unless the offender canredeem his pardon by a fine of three hundred pounds ofcopper. The decemvirs distributed with much liberalitythe slighter chastisements of flagellation and servitude;and nine crimes of a very different complexion are ad­judged worthy of death. 1. Any act of treason againstthe state, or of correspondence with the public enemy.The mode of execution was painful and ignominious;the head of the degenerate Roman was shrouded in aveil, his hands were tied behind his back, and, after hehad been scourged by the lictor, he was suspended inthe midst of the forum on a cross, or inauspicious tree.1. Nocturnal meetings in the city; whatever might bethe pretence, of pleasure, or religion, or the public good.3. The murder of a citizen; for which the commonfeelings of mankind demanded the blood of the mur­derer. Poison is still more odious than the sword ordagger; and we are surprised to discover, in two flagiti­ous events, how early such subtle wickedness had infect­ed the simplicity of the republic, and the chaste virtuesof the Roman matrons." The parricide who violatedthe duties of nature and gratitude, was cast into the riveror the sea, enclosed in a sack; and a cock, a viper, a dog,and a monkey, were successively added as the most suit­able companions." Italy produces no monkeys; butthe want could never be felt, till the middle of the sixthcentury first revealed the guilt of a parricide.p 4. The ■ Lrvy mentions two remarkable and flagitious eras, of three thousand persons ac­cused, and of one hundred and ninety noble matrons convicted, of the crime of poi­soning. (40. 43. 8. 18.) Mr. Hume discriminates the ages ofpublioand private vir­tue. (Essays, vol. 1. p. 22,23.) I would rather say that such ebullitions of mischief(as in France in the year 1680.) are accidents and prodigies which leave no marks onthe manners of a nation. • The twelve tables and Cicero (pro Roscio Amerino, c. 25, 26.) are content withthe sack; Seneca (Excerpt. Controvers. 5. 4.) adorns it with serpents; Juvenalpities the guiltless monkey, (innoxia simia—Satir. 13.156.) Hadrian (apnd Dosi-theum Magistrum, lib. 3. c. 16. p. 874—876. with Schulting's Note), Modestinus,(Pandect. 48. tit. 9. leg. 9.) Constantino, (Cod. lib. 9. lit. 17.) and Justinian, (Insti-tnt lib. 4. tit. 18.) enumerate all the companions of the parricide. But this fancifulexecution was simplified in practice. Hodie tamen vivi exuruntur vel ad bestiasdan-tnr. (Paul. Sentenl. Recept. lib. 5. tit. 24. p. 512. edit. Schilling.) * The 6rst parricide at Rome was L. Ostius, after the, second Punic war. (Pla ■ 2 C 2