OCR Output B. IV. YEAH VII. BEFORE CHRIST 425. infesting them with their bows and darts and stones. Thesewould do execution from a distance: an enemy could not pos足sibly engage with them; since, even flying, they would pre足vail, and when the enemy retreated would return briskly totheir work. With so much address had Demosthenes previ足ously planned the order of landing, and in close adherence toit brought them now to action. The body commanded by Epitadas, and which was thebulk of the whole force in the island, when they saw theiradvanced guard entirely cut off and the enemy advancingto attack them next, drew up in order and marched towardsthe heavy-armed of the Athenians, designing to engagethem. For the latter was so placed as to oppose them infront; the light-armed were posted on either of their flanks,and in the rear. But against those heavy-armed they couldnot possibly come to action, nor gain an opportunity to exerttheir own distinguishing skill. For the light-armed, pouringin their darts on either of their flanks, compelled them tohalt; and their opposites would not move forwards to meetthem, but stood quiet in their posts. Such indeed of thelight-armed, as adventured in any quarter to run up neartheir ranks, were instantly put to flight; however, they soonfaced about and continued their annoyance. They werenot incumbered with any weight of armour; their agilityeasily conveyed them beyond the reach of danger, as theground was rough, and ever left desart had never been level足led by culture. In such spots the Lacedaemonians, underthe load of their arms, could not possibly pursue. In thiskind of skirmish, therefore, they were for a small space oftime engaged. When the Lacedaemonians had no longer sufficientagility to check the attacks of these skirmishing parties, thelight-armed soon took notice that they slackened in theirendeavours to beat them off. It was then, that their ownappearance, many times more large than that of their foes,and the very sight of themselves, began to animate themVol. I. 3 I