OCR Output -64 ANTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. - Book XVIII. bout this water ; and many ten thousands of the people got to­gether, and made a clainour against him, and insisted that heshould leave off that design. Some of them also ussd reproaches,and abused the man, as crowds of such people usually do. Sohe habited a great number of his soldiers in their habit, whocarried daggers under their garments, and sent them to a placewhere they might surround them. So he bid the Jews himselfgo away j but they boldly casting reproaches upon him, he gavethe soldiers that signal which had been beforehand agreed oa ;who laid upon them with much greater blows than Pilate hadcommanded them, and equally punished those that were tumul­tuous, and those that were not; nor did they spare them in theleast; and since the people were unarmed, and were caught bymen prepared for what they were about, there were a greatnumber of them slain by this means, and others of them ranaway wounded. And thus an end was put to this sedition. 3. Now, there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it belawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works,a teacher of such men as receive the truth with pleasure. Hedrew over to him both many of the Jews, and many of theGentiles. He was [the] Christ. And when Pilate, at the sug­gestion of the principal men amongst us, had condemned hioi to(he cross *, those that loved him at the first did not forsake him ;for he appeared to them alive again the third day f ; as the di­vine prophets had foretold these and ten thousand other wonder­ful things concerning him. And the tribe of Christians, soiiamed from him, are not extinct at this day. 4. About the same time, also, another sad calamity put theJews into disorder, and certain shameful practices happenedabout the temple of Isis that was at Rome. 1 will now first takenotice of the wicked attempt about the temple of Isis, and willthen give an account of the Jewish affairs. There was at Romea woman whose name was Paulina ; one who, on account of thedignity of her ancestors, and by the regular conduct of a vir­tuous life, had a great reputation : she was also very rich ;. andalthough she were of a beautiful countenance, and in that flowerof her age wherein women are the most gay, yet did she lead alife of great inodcstv. She was married to Saturninus, one that was spel teaches us, I.'jfce, xxiii. 6. 7. that, " when Pilate heard of Galilee, he askedwhether Jesus were a Galilean! And as soon as he knew that he belonged to He-rocl's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod." And, ver. 12. " The same day Pilateand Herod were nude friends together; for before they had been at enmity be-tween themselves'" Take the very probable key of this matter in the words ofthe learned Noldins de Herod, No. 149. " The cause of the enmity between He-" rod and Pilate (says he) seems to have been this, that Pilate had intermeddled" with the tetrar ch's jurisdiction, and had slain some of his Galilean subjects,"' Luke, xiii. i.; and, as he was willing to correct that error, he sent Christ to" Herod at this time.'' * A. 0.33. April 3. t April 5.