OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 285 rapid progress of treason, and he resolved to risk theGothic kingdom on the chance of a day, in which thevaliant would be animated by instant danger, and thedisaffected might be awed by mutual ignorance. In hismarch from Ravenna, the Roman general chastised thegarrison of Rimini, traversed in a direct line the. hills ofUrbino, and re-entered the Flaminian way, nine milesbeyond the perforated rock, an obstacle of art and na­ture which might have stopped or retarded his progress.1—The Goths were assembled in the neighbourhood ofRome, they advanced, without delay, to seek a superiorenemy, and the two armies approached each other at thedistance of one hundred furlongs, between Taginam andthe sepulchres of the Gauls." The haughty message ofNarses was an offer, not of peace, but of pardon. Theanswer of the Gothic king declared his resolution to dieor conquer. "What day (said the messenger) will youfix for the combat?" "The eighth day," replied Totila:but early the next morning he attempted to surprise afoe, suspicious of deceit, and prepared for battle. Tenthousand Heruli and Lombards, of approved valour anddoubtful faith, were placed in the centre. Each of thewings was composed of eight thousand Romans; theright was guarded by the cavalry of the Huns, the left 1 The Flaminian way, as it is corrected from the Itineraries, and the best modernmaps, by d'Anville, (Analyse de I'ltalie, p. 147—162.) may be thas stated: Rometo Narni, fifty-one Roman miles; Terni,fifty-seven; Spoleto, seventy-five; Folignu,eighty-eight; Nocera, one hundred and three; Cagli, one hundred arid forty-two;Intercisa, one hundred and fifty-seven ; Fossombrone, one hundred and sixty ; Fano,one hundred and seventy-six; Pesaro, one hundred and eighty-four; Rimini, twohundred and eight—about one hundred and eighty-nine English miles. He takesno notice of the death of Totila; but Wesseling (Itinerar. p. 614.) exchangesfor the field of Taginat the unknown appellation of Ptauitts, eight miles fromNocera, m Taginne, or rather Tadir.ae, is mentioned by Pliny; but the hishoprick of that ob­scure town, a mile from Gnaldo, in the plain, was united, in the year 1007, with thatof Nocera. Tjie signs of antiquity are preserved in the local appellations, Fossato,the camp; Cupraia, Caprea; hastia, Busta Gallorum. See Clnverius, (Italja An-tiqua, lib. 2. c. 6. p. 615—617.) Lucas Holstenius, (Annotat. ad Cluver. p. 85, 86.)Guazzesi, (Dissertat. p. 177—217. a professed inquiry) and the maps of the eccle­siastical state and the march of Ancona, by Le Maire and Magini. D The hattle was fought in the year of Rome 458: and the consul Oecius, by de­voting his own life, assured the triumph of his country and'his colleague Fahius.(T. Liv. 10. 28, 29.) Procopius ascribes to Camillus the victory of the Busta Gal­lorum; and his error is branded by Cluverios with the national reproach of Graeco.ium nugaiacnta.