OCR Output VIA FLAMINIA. 1301 VIA LATINA. rary with the construction of the highroad itself:it was judiciously placed just at the entrance of theApennines, where the passage of those mountainsmay be considered to have commenced. Thencethe highway followed nearly the same line as themodern road from Foiigno to Fano, skirting themain ridge of the Apennines, and the principal sta­tions can be identified without difficulty. It passedby Helvillnm (Sigillo), crossed the central ridge ofthe Apennines at La Schieggia (probably Ad Ensemof the Tabula), and descended into the valley of theCantiano, a tributary of the Metaurns, passing byCalea or Calles (Cagli), Intercisa (the Potto delFurlo), and emerging into the valley of the Me­taurns at Forum Sempronii (Fauombronc), whenceit descended the coarse of that river to FanuinFortnnae (Fano) on the Adriatic, and thence alongthe coast to Ariminum (Rimini), where it joinedthe Via Aemilia. We may now recapitulate the distances as given,first, in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 125):— From Rome to Rostrata Villa - - - - xziv. M.P. Ocriculum ( Otricoli) xxi. Namia ( A oral) . . . xii. Ad Martis (near Maun) - xvi. Mevania (Bevagna) - xvi. Nuceria (A'ocera) ... xviii. Helrillnm (Sigillo) - xiv. Calms (Cagli) xxiii. Forum Sempmnii (Fottombrone) xviii. Fanum Fortunae (Fano) - xvi. Pisaurum (Paaro) - - - viii. Ariminum (Rimini) xxiv. These distances are all approximately correct.The stations are given more in detail in the Jeru­ salem Itinerary (p. 613), as follow.—From Rome to Ad Hubras (Prima Porta) - - ix.M.r. Ad Vicesimum . - - xi. Aqna \'n*(0iteria detf Acqua Vim) xii. Ociiculum (Otriooli) ... xii. Namia (Xarni) .... xii. Interamna (Temi) ... viii. Tres Tabernae .... iii. Fanum Fngitivi (Monte Somma) - x. Spoletium (SpoUto) ... vii. Sacraria (Le Vent) ... viii. Trebia (TVeri) - - - - iv. Fnlginium (Foiigno) - - - v.Forum Flauiinii (S. Gio. in Fori- Jiamma) .... iii. Nuceria (A'ocera) ... xii Ptaniae, probably T»diuum( (j'muWo) viii. Herbellonium (?) - - - vii. Ad Ensem (Im Schieggia) - - x. Ad Calem (Cagli) ... xiv. Intercisa (II Furlo) - - - ix. Forum Sempronii (/ossom&roiie) - ix. Ad Octavum - - - - ix. Fanum Fortunae (Fano) - - viii. PUaurum (Paaro) ... viii. Ariminum (Rimini) ... xxiv. The whole distance from Rome to Ariminum ac-rording to this Itinerary is therefore 222 miles, whilehe Antonine (following the more direct line) makes1210 miles. The Tabula adds nothing to our know-edge of this route; and the distances are much lessrorrect than in the other two Itineraries. The branch of the Flaminian Way which struck>ff from the main line at Nuceria and crossed the Apennines direct to Ancona, is thus given in theAntonine Itinerary (p. 311):—From Nuceria to Dubii(?) .... viii. M. P. Prolaqueum (Pioraco) - - viii. Septempeda (S. Sererino) - - XT. Traia (Ku. near Treia) - ix. Auximum (Otimo) - - xviii. Ancona ..... xii.Thence a road was carried along the coast bySena Gallica to Fanum Fortnnae, where it rejoinedthe main line of the Via Flaminia. The stationswere:— Ad Aesim fl. (R. Etino) - - viii. xt. P. Sena Gallica (Sinigaglia) - - xii. Ad Pirum (?) - - • viii. Fanum Fortunae (Fano) - - viii.All the above distances appear to be at least ap­proximately correct. (For a full and careful ex­amination of the line of the Via Flaminia, and thedistances of the stations upon it, see DAnville,Analyte Geographique dt tllalie, pp. 147—162.) |E.H. B.] VIA LABICANA (?j Augural U6t) was one ofthe highroads that issued from the Porta Esquilina atRome. It was evidently originally nothing more thana road that led to the ancient city of Labicum (16miles from Rome), but was subsequently continuedin the same direction, and, after sweeping round theE. foot of the Alban bills, it joined the Via l.atinaat the station Ad Pictas, in the plain between themand the Volacian mountains. (Strab. v. p. 237.)This route was in many respects more conve­nient than the proper Via Latina, as it avoided theascent and descent of the Alban lulls: and hence itappears to have become, in the later ages of the Em­pire, the more frequented road of the two; so that theAntonine Itinerary gives the Via Labicana as theregular highroad from Rome to Bene ven turn, and after­wards gives the Via Latina as falling into it. (/tin.Ant. pp. 304, 306.) But this is decidedly opposedto the testimony of Strabo (L e.), and the usage of theAugustan age, which is generally followed by modernwriters. Hence the Via Labicana will be heregiven only as far as the point where it joins theLatina. The stations set down in the Antonine Itineraryare merely— From Rome to Ad Quintanas - - xr. u. p.Ad Pictas - - X. The Tabula subdivides the latter stage into two;vis., Ad Statuas, iii. M. I'., and thence to Ad Pictas,vii. ; thus confirming the distance in toe Itinerary.The station Ad Quintanas was undoubtedly situatedat the foot of the hill on which stands the village ofLa Colmna, occupying the site of the ancientLabicum. The line of the ancient road from Romethither followed nearly the same course, though withfewer windings, as the modern road to Palettrinaand Valmontone. It is described in the articleLabicum. [E. H. It.J VIA LATINA (ii Aariri) Mis) was one of theprincipal of the numerous highroads that issued fromthe gates of Rome, and probably one of the most an-cient of them. Hence we have no account of the timeof its construction, and it was doubtless long in useas a means of communication before it was pavedand converted into a regular highroad. Some roador other must always have existed between Romeand Toscnlum; while again beyond the Alban hillsthe valley of the Sacco (Trerus) is one of the 4 o 3