OCR Output A. D.22.J OF TACITUS. 197 many different routes. In the quarter where theAfricans ravaged the country near Leptis, and thenfled for shelter to the Germantcs, Cornelius Scipio,the proconsul's lieutenant, advanced with his divi­sion. In another quarter, where Cirta lay exposedto the barbarians, the younger Blecsus, the proconsul'sbob, commanded a second detachment. ln tliB inter­mediate part of the country, the commander jn chiefmarched at the head of a chosen body of troops Atall convenient places he threw up entrenchmentsand appointed garrisons, securing every station by aregular chain of posts. The barbarians found themselves counteracted onevery s'de. Wherever they turned, the Romans wereat hand, in front, in flank, and in the rear. Numberswere surrounded, and either put to the sword, ortaken prisoners. To spread the alarm, the Romanarmy was again subdivided into smaller parties, un­der the command of centurions of approved valourand experience. Nor was the campaign closed, asosual, at the end of the summer. Instead of retiringto winter-quarters in the old provinces, Blsesus keptthe field; he increased the number of his posts andgarrisons, and sent out detachments, lightly armed,with guides acquainted with the course of the coun­try. Tacfarinas could no longer stand at bay. Heshifted his huts, and wandered from place to place.At length his brother was taken prisoner, and Blsesusthought it time to close the campaign., His retreatwas sudden and premature. The province was stillopen to incursions; and the flame of war, thoughsuppressed, was not extinguished. Tiberius, how­ever, considered the enemy as completely vanquished.Besides the honours already granted -to Blsesus, heordered that the legions should salute him by thetitle of Imferator, according to the ancient customof the Roman armies, in the pride of victory flushedwith the generous ardour of warlike spirits. In thetime of the republic, this was a frequent custom, in­somuch that several, at the same time, without pre-s or distinction, enjoyed that military honour. R 2