OCR Output CHAP. L. 277 and heroes; and the father of Mahomet himself wasdevoted by a rash vow, and hardly ransomed for theequivalent of a hundred camels. In the time of igno­rance, the Arabs, like the Jews and Egyptians, abstainedfrom the taste of swine's flesh;g they circumcised'1 theirchildren at the age of puberty: the same customs, with­out the censure or the precept of the Koran, have beensilently transmitted to their posterity and proselytes.It has been sagaciously conjectured, that the artful le­gislator indulged the stubborn prejudices of his coun­trymen. It is more simple to believe that he adheredto the habits and opinions of his youth, without fore­seeing that a practice congenial to the climate of Mecca,might become useless or inconvenient on the banks ofthe Danube or the Volga. Arabia was free: the adjacent kingdoms Introdnc- J ° tionof the were shaken by the storms of conquest and ty­ranny, and the persecuted sects fled to the hap­py land where they might profess what they thought,and practise what they professed. The religions of theSabians and Magians, of the Jews and Christians, weredisseminated from the Persian gulf to the Red sea. Ina remote period of antiquity, Sabianism was diffusedover Asia by the science of the Chaldeans' and thearms of the Assyrians. From the observations of twothousand years, the priests and astronomers of Baby­lon11 deduced the eternal laws of nature and Providence. r Suillis caroibus abstinent, says Solinus, (Polyhistor, c. 33.) who copies Pliny,(lib. 8. c. 68.) in the strange supposition, that hogs cannot live in Arabia. TheEgyptians were actuated by a natural and superstitious horror for that uncleanbeast. (Marsham, Canon, p. 205.) The old Arabians likewise practised, post coi-tum, the right of ablution, (Herodot. lib. 1. c. 80.) which is sanctified by the Ma­hometan law, (Reland, p. 75, &c. Chardin, or rather the Moiiah of Shaw Ab­bas, torn. 4. p. 71, &c.) '' The Mahometan doctors are not fond of the subject: yet they hold circumci­sion necessary to salvation, and even pretend that Mahomet was miraculouslyborn without a foreskin. (Pocock, Specimen, p. 319, 320. Sales' PreliminaryDiscourse, p. 106, 107.) 1 Diodorus Siculus (torn. 1. lib. 2. p. 149—145.) has cast on their religion thecarious but superficial glance of a Greek. Their astronomy would be far more va­luable: they had looked through the telescope of reason, since they could doubtwhether the sun were in the number of the planets or of the fixed stars. k Simplicius (who quotes Porphyry) de Cielo, lib. 2. corn. 46. p. 123. lin. 18.apud Marsham, Canon. Chion. p. 474. who doubts the fact, because it is advem