OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHU3. 201 the furniture, which was done without our approbation ; for,after we had discoursed Capellus and the principal men of thecity, we departed from Bethmaus, and went into the upper Ga­lilee. But Jesus and his party slew all the Greeks that wereinhabitants of Tiberias, and as many others as were their ene­mies before the war began. 13. When 1 understood this state of things, I was greatly pro­voked, and went down to Tiberias, and took all the care I couldof the royal furniture, to recover all that could be recoveredfrom such as had plundered it. They consisted of candlesticksmade of Corinthian brass, and of royal tables, and of a greatquantity of uncoined silver ; and I resolved to preserve whatso­ever came to my hand for the king. So I sent for ten of the prin­cipal men of the senate, and for Capellus the son of Antyllus,and committed the furniture to them, with this charge, thatthey should part with it to nobody else but to myself. Fromthence I and my fellow-legates went to Gischala to John, as de­sirous to know his intentions, and soon saw that he was for in­novations, and had a mind to the principality ; for he desired meto give him authority to carry off that corn which belonged toCaesar, and lay in the villages of Upper Galilee ; and he pretend­ed that he would expend what it came to in building the wallsof his own city. But when I perceived what he endeavouredat, and what he had in his mind, I said I would not permit himso to do; for that I thought either to keep it for the Romans,or for myself, now I was entrusted with the public affairs thereby the people of Jerusalem. But, when he was not able toprevail with me, he betook himself to my fellow-legates ; forthey had no sagacity in providing for futurity, and were veryready to take bribes. So he corrupted them with money to de­cree, that all that corn which was within his province should bedelivered to him; while I, who was but one, was outvoted bytwo, and held my tongue. Then did John introduce anothercunning contrivance of his ; for he said, that those Jews who in­habited Cesarea Philippi, and were shut up by the order of theking's deputy there, had sent to him to desire him, that, sincethey had no oil that was pure for their use, he would providea sufficient quantity of such oil that came from the Greeks, andthereby transgress their own laws. Now this was said by John,not out of his regard to religion, but out of his most flagrantdesire of gain ; for he knew, that two sextaries were sold withthem of Cesarea for one drachma, but that at Gischala four­score sextaries were sold for four sextaries. So he gave order,that all the oil which was there should be carried away, as ha­ving my permission for so doing ; which yet I did not grant himVOL. III. Cc voluntarily,