OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. tyrant, and converted the free gift into a perpetual tax. Thesenators, according to the declaration which was required of theirproperty, were divided into several classes. The most opulent paidannually eight pounds of gold, the next class paid four, the lasttwo, and those whose poverty might have claimed an exemption,were assessed however at seven pieces of gold. Besides the propermembers of the senate, their sons, their descendants, and even theirrelations, enjoyed the vain privileges, and supported the heavyburdens, of the senatorial order; nor will it any longer exciteour surprise, that Constantine should be attentive to increase thenumber of persons who were included under so useful a descrip­tion :S. After the defeat of Maxentius, the victorious emperorpassed no more than two or three months in Rome, which hevisited twice during the remainder of his life, to celebrate the solemnfestivals of the tenth and of the twentieth years of his reign*.Constantine was almost perpetually in motion to exercise the legions,or to inspect the state of the provinces. Treves, Milan, Aquileia,Sirmium, Naissus and Thessalonica, were the occasional places ofhis residence, till he founded a new Rome on the confines ofEurope and Asia Before Constantine marched into Italy, he had secured the friend- His alliancestiip or at least the neutrality of Licinius, the Illyrian emperor, a.D.'"iu*"He had promised his sister Constantia in marriage to that prince; Marcb-but the celebration of the nuptials was deferred till after the con­clusion of the war, and the interview of the two emperors atMilan, which was appointed for that purpose, seemed to unitetheir families and interests ?8. In the midst of the public festivitythey were suddenly obliged to take leave of each other. An inroadof the Franks summoned Constantine to the Rhine, and the hostileapproach of the sovereign of Asia, demanded the immediate pre­sence of Licinius. Maximin had been the secret ally of Maxentius, War between Maxitnin and and without being discouraged by his fate, he resolved to try the Licinius. A. D. 313- fortune