OCR Output 374 ROiMAN EMPIRE. the victorious Arabs. To their industry, the prosperityof the province, the Sogdiana of the ancients, may in agreat measure be ascribed; but the advantages of thesoil and climate had been understood and cultivatedsince the reign of the Macedonian kings. Before theinvasion of the Saracens, Carizme, Bochara, and Samar-cand, were rich and populous under the yoke of theshepherds of the north. These cities were surroundedwith a double wall; and the exterior fortification, of alarger circumference, enclosed the fields and gardens ofthe adjacent district. The mutual wants of India andEurope were supplied by the diligence of the Sogdianmerchants; and the inestimable art of transforming lineninto paper, has been diffused from the manufacture ofSamarcand over the western world." II. No sooner had Abubeker restored the unity Invasion * of Syria, of faith and government, than he dispatched a'circular letter to the Arabian tribes.—In the nameof the most merciful God, to the rest of the true believers.Health and happiness, and the mercy and blessing of Godbe upon you. I praise the most high God, and I pray forhis prophet Mahomet. This is to acquaint you, that Iintend to send the true believers into Syria* to take it outof the hands of the infidels. . And I would have you know,that the fighting for religion is an act of obedience to God.His messengers returned with the tidings of pious andmartial ardour which they had kindled in every province; ™ A curious description of Samarcand is inserted in the Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana, torn, 1. p. 308, &c. The librarian Casiri (torn. 2. 9.) relates, from cre­dible testimony, that paper was first imported from China to Samarcand, A. H.3O, and invented, or rather introduced at Mecca, A. H. 88. The Escnrial librarycontains paper MSS. as old as the fourth or fifth century of the Hegira. * A separate history of the conquest of Syria has been composed by AI Wakidi,cadi of Bagdad, who was bom A. D. 748, and died A. D. 822; he likewise wrotethe conquest of Egypt, of Diarbekir, &c. Above the meagre and recent chroniclesof the Arabians, Al Wakidi has the double merit of antiquity and copiousness.His tales and traditions afford an artless picture of the men and the times. Yethis narrative is too often defective, trifling, and improbable. Till something bettershall be found, his learned and spirited interpreter, (Ockley, in his History of theSaracens, vol. 1. p. 21—342.) will not deserve the petulant animadversion ofReiske. (Prodidagmata ad Hagji Chalifce Tabulas, p. 236.) I am sorry to thinkthat the labours of Ockley were consummated in a jail. (See his two prefaces tothe first vol. A. D. 1708, to the second, 1718, with the list of authors at the end.)