OCR Output ITALICA. 07 ITHACA. I:s coins, ail of the imperial age, boar militaryemblems which attest the story of its origin, and ontame of them is the title jilia au<;ista. Thecity flourished under the Goths, and. for some time,under the Moors, who preserved the old name, in theform Taliixi or Talca; but, in con.>ei|uence of achange iu the bed of the river, its inhabitants aban­doned it, and migrated to Seville. Hence, in con­tradistinction to the city which (although far moreancient, see HisrAUs) became thus its virtual•successor, Italica received the name of Old Seville(SarUia la Vicja), under which name its ruins Btillexist near the wretched village of Santi Ponce, whilethe surrounding country retains the ancient name,lot compos de Talca. The chief object iu the ruinsis the amphitheatre, which was in good preservationtill 1774, " when it was used by the corporation ofSeville for ri>er dikes, and for making the road toBatlajuz." (Ford.) Mr. Ford also states, that "onDec. 12, 1799, a fine mosaic pavemmt was dis­covered, which a poor monk, named Jose Moscoso,ta hi* honour, enclosed with a wall, in order to saveit from the usual fate in Spain. Didot, in 1802,published for Laborde a splendid folio, with en­gravings and description. .... Now, this work isill thit remains, for the soldiers of Soult convertedthe enclosure into a goat-pen." The only otherportion of the ruins of Italica to be seen above-ground consists of some vaulted brick tanks, calledLa Cata de fos Banos, which were the reservoirs ofthe aqueduct brought by Adrian from Tejada, 7I-ja^ues distant. (Caes. B. C. ii. 20; BelL Alex. 53;OelL Xoct. Att. xt. 13; Oros. v. 23; Geog. Rav.;FIi*ex, Exp. S. vul. xii. pp. 227, foil.; Coins, op.Klicei, Med. de Ksp. vol. ii. p. 477; Mionnet, vol. i.p. 17, Suppl vol. i. p. 31; Sestini, p. Gl: Eckhel,voL I p. 23; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 372; Ford,Handbook of Spain, pp. 63, G4.) [1\ S.] ITAT.ICA. [Cobkinilm.]ITANUM PR. [Itanl'S.]IT ANUS ("trow, Ptol. iii. 17. § 4; Stcph. B.:F.tk. Iroyjoi). a town on the E. coast of Crete, nearthe promontory which bore the name of Itanum.(Fan. iv. 12.) In Coronelli's map there is a placecalled Itagnia, with a Paleohaxtron in the neigh­borhood, which is probably the site of Itanus; theP*itiuo i.f the headland must be looked for nearXaero jf«rue (Hook, Krrt/i, vol. L p. 42G), unlessit be placed further N. at Capo Salomon, in whichex* the (irawlcs islands would correspond with the< >sisia and Lki:ck of Pliuy (/. c.; comp. Mag. Class.Antiq. vol. ii. p. 303). According to Herodotus (iv. 131), the Theraeans,when founding Cyrene, were indebted for theirknowledge of the Libyan coast to Corobius, a seller«tf purple at Itanus. Some of the coins of thiscity present the type of a woman terminating intbe toil of a fish. (E<ihel, vol. ii. p, 314.) ThisVf*- recalling the figure of tlie Syrian goddess,coupled with the trade in purple, suggests a Phoe­nician origin. [E. B. J.] COIN OF ITANl'S. ITABCU& [iLABGl'S.] vol. il ITHACA ('WaKij: F.th. T0a«V«>s and 'I0cu«Js:It bacons is and lthacus: Th'uiki, Qidxi), vulgarly;but this is merely an alteration, by a simple meta­thesis of the two first letters, from 'I&fcij, which isknown to be the correct orthography by the Ithacansthemselves, and is the name used by all educatedGreeks. Leake, Northern Greece, chap. xxii.) Thisisland, so celebrated as the scene of a large portionof the Homeric poems, lies oft' the coast of Acar-nania, and is separated from Ccphallenia by achannel about 3 or 4 miles wide. Its name is saidby Eustathius (ad II. ii. 632) to have been derivedfrom the eponymous hero Ithacus, mentioned in Od.xviii. 207. Strabo (x. 2) reckons the circumfe­rence of Ithaca at only 80 stadia: but this measure­ment is very short of the truth; its extreme lengthfrom north to south being about 17 miles, its great­est breadth about 4 miles, and its area nearly 4,5 sq.miles. The island may be described as a ridgeof limestone rock, divided by the deep and wideGulf of Molo into two nearly equal parts, connectedby a narrow isthmus not more than half-a-mileacross, and on which stands the Pakocastro ofActus ('Aertij), traditionally known as the "Castleof Ulysses." Ithaca everywhere rises into ruggedhills, of which the chief is the mountain of Anoye(jAvwyij: I tat And), in the northern division, whichis identified with the Nekitos of Virgil (Aen. iii.271) and the Nr)ptTov clvoalrpvWoy of Homer (Od.ix. 21). Its forests have now disappeared; and thisis, doubtless, the reason why rain and dew are not socommon here in the present as in Homer's age, andwhy the island no longer abounds in hugs fattenedon acorns like those guarded by Eumaeus. In all otherpoints, the poet's descriptions (Od. iv. 603, seep, xiii.242, seq., ix. 27, seq.) exhibit a perfect picture ofthe island as it now appears, the general aspect beingone of ruggedness and sterility, rendered striking bythe bold and broken outline of the mountains andcliffs, indented by numerous harbours and creeks(Ai/xcVes irdvopfAOi, Od. xiii. 193). The climate ishealthy (aryadrt KovpoTp6<pos, Od. ix. 27). It mayhere be observed, that the expressions applied toIthaca, in Od. ix. 25, 26, have puzzled all the com­mentators ancient and modern: — ainfy 5e x^au-a^-h travimiprar-n eiV dAl hutch■jrpbs £6<poVj at 5« a\v€uUe irpbs 7jw t* rjeAioV re. (Cf. Nitzsch, ad loc.; also Od. x. 196.) Strabo (x.2) gives perhaps the most satisfactory explanation:he supposes that by the epithet \0ap.a\i) the poetintended to express how Ithaca lies under, as it were,the neighbouring mountains of Acamania; while bythat of iravvTrcpra.Tr) he meant to denote its positionat the extremity of the group of islands fenned byZacynthus, Cephallenia, and the Echinadcs. Foranother explanation, see Wordsworth, Greece, 77c-torifd, </'cM pp. 355, seq. Ithaca is now divided into four districts (Batii','Aerds, 'Pivuyri, 'E^tuyrj, i. e. Peep Bay, Eayles Clijf,Highland, Outland); and, as natural causes are likelyto produce in all ages similar effects, Leake (I. c.)thinks it probable, from the peculiar conformation ofthe island, that the four divisions of the present daynearly correspond with those noticed by lleracleon,an author cited by Stephanus B. (s. v. KponvXtiov).The name of one of the.^e districts is lost by a defectiu the text; the others were named NeTum, Crocy-leium, and Aegireus. The Aegilips of Homer (//.ii. G33) is probably the same with Aegircus, and isplaced by Leake at the modern village of Anoye;