OCR Output 102 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. same oblations that private men do; exceptthey so far differ, that they are to bring forsacrifices a bull, or a kid of the goats, bothmales. Now the law requires, both in private andpublic sacrifices, that the finest flour be alsobrought; for a lamb, the measure of one tenthdeal; for a ram, two; and for a bull, three.This they consecrate upon the altar, when itis mingled with oil: for oil is also brought bythose that sacrifice; for a bull, the half of ahin; for a ram, a third part of the same man­ner; and one quarter of it for a lamb. Theybring the same quantity of oil which they doof wine, and they pour the wine about thealtar; but if any one does not offer a com­plete sacrifice of animals, but brings fine flouronly for a vow, he throws a handful upon thealtar, as its first fruits; while the priests takethe rest for their food; either boiled, or min­gled with oil, but made into cakes of bread:but whatsoever it be, that a priest himselfoffers, it must of necessity be all burnt. Nowthe law forbids us to sacrifice any animal atthe same time with its dam; and in othercases, not till the eighth day after its birth. Other sacrifices are also appointed for es­caping distempers, or for other occasions; inwhich meat-offerings are consumed, togetherwith the animals that are sacrificed; of whichit is not lawful to leave any part till the nextday, only the priests are to take their ownshare. CHAP. X. CONCERNING THE FESTIVALS, AND HOW EACH DAY OF SUCHFESTIVAL IS TO BE OBSERVED. THE .law requires, that out of the publicexpenses a lamb of the first year bekilled every day, at the beginning and endingof the day;* but on the seventh day, whichis called the Sabbath, they kill two, and sa­crifice them in the same manner. On the newmoon they both perform the daily sacrifices,and slay two bulls, with seven lambs of thefirst year, and a kid of the goats also, for theexpiation of sins, that is, if they have sinnedthrough ignorance. On the seventh month, which the Macedo- nians call Hyperberetaeus, they make an ad­dition to those already mentioned, and sacri­fice a bull, a ram, seven lambs,f and a kid ofthe goats for sins. The tenthJ day of the same lunar monththey fast till the evening; and this day theysacrifice a bull, two rams, seven lambs, and akid of the goats for sins; and besides these,they bring two kids of the goats, one of whichis sent alive out of the limits of the camp intothe wilderness, for the scape-goat, and to bean expiation of the sins of the whole multi­tude; but the other is brought into a place ofgreat cleanness, within the limits of the camp,and is there burnt, with its skin, without anysort of cleansing. With this goat is burnt abull not brought by the people, but by thehigh-priest, at his own charge, which, whenit is slain, he brings of the blood into the holyplace, together with the blood of the kid ofthe goats, and sprinkles the ceiling with hisfinger seven times, as also its pavement, andas often towards the most holy place, andabout the golden altar. He also at last bringsit into the open court, and sprinkles it aboutthe great altar. Besides this, they set the ex­tremities, and the kidneys, and the fat, withthe lobe of the liver upon the altar, and thehigh-priest presents a ram to God as a burnt-offering, j On the fifteenth|| day of the same month,when the season of the year is changing forwinter, the law enjoins us to pitch tabernaclesin every one of our houses, but so that wepreserve ourselves from the cold of that timeof the year; as also that when we should ar­rive at our own country, we should come tothat city which we should have then for ourmetropolis, because of the temple therein tobe built: and keep a festival for eight days,and offer burnt-offerings, and sacrifice thank-offerings; that we should then carry in ourhands a branch of myrtle, and,willow, and abough of the palm-tree, with the addition ofthe pomecitron; that the burnt-offering on thefirst of those days was to be a sacrifice ofthirteen bulls, fourteen lambs, and fifteenrams, with the addition of a kid of the goats,as an expiation for sins; that on the followingdays the same number of lambs, and of rams, * Exod. xxix. 38.t Numb. xxix. 2. Numb, xxviii. 3. t Levit. xxiii. 27.II Numb. xxix. 12.