OCR Output boOK I. 251 t.t• and Ruperti, propose to expunge rt at ouce, as a mere gloss. Andgcjthey have good reason to be dissatisfied with most of the comments,for, almost without exception, they either sacrifice the force of ipsa, ormake necessitas something quite different from necessitates, which,though maintained by Dod., is not borne out by the usage of Tacitus,and can hardly be supposed in such a juxtaposition as this. But doesnot the following interpretation avoid both these objections and meetall the demands of the passage ? Illustrious men were reduced tothe last necessities (involving or threatening death); the necessityitself was endured with fortitude, and the deaths (which ensued)were equal to the glorious deaths of the ancients. Ipsa thus marksthe antith. between necessitas and exitus; while necessitas is distin­guished from exitus and identified with necessitates, as it manifestlyshould be. 16. Exitus. See the word used in like manner in the pl of thedeaths of Cassius and the Brutuses, Ann. 1, 10, which passage mayalso illustrate the kind of exitus that is meant here. 17. Prodigia = prodicia. The letters G and C were originallyidentical; hence the resemblance in form. See Zumpt's Lat. Gr.So negotium = nec-otium, &c. 20. Justis = luculentis, manifestis. Rup. Magis justis in-diciis. More conclusive proofs.—Before esse ultionem, the antithparticle sed is understood. It is ofteii omitted by T. Ch. IV.—22. Repetendum. Necessary to go back, and de­scribe the existing state of things prior to the date of the history,i. e. from the death of Nero to the second consulship of Galba, cf.note 1: Galba .... consules. For a fuller account of this intervalbetween the close of the Annals and tho beginning of the Histories,the reader may consult Suetonius' Nero and Galba; Plutarch'sGalba; Dio. 63,22, seqq. &c.—Componam. For the mode and tense,cf. Gr. 263, 3 ; Z. 576. 25. Q,uid luerit. Subj. Cf. Gr. 265 ; Z. 552. 26. Fortuiti. Inexpectati et haud promissi, non in se, sed quoadnos. So Brotier. But Tacitus probably means more than this, viz.that particular events (as for instance the rise of Otho and Vitellius,rather than any other ambitious men of their day, and the victory ofthe latter rather than the former), are the result of accident or for­tune ; but at the same time there were general principles or causes atwork, which rendered certain and necessary these o;- similar evonts:and these causes, even more than those fortuitous events, it is theprovince of history to investigate. Cf. Wr. in loc. The wonderfulsagacity and wisdom with which Tacitus has accomplished this end,constitute a chief merit of his history. 2T. Ut ita. Though .... yet. Z. 726. 30. Legioues ducesque, sc. in the provinces, foris being under-