OCR Output 1"6 Book XX. ANTIOJJITIES OF THE JEWS. father was Germanicus, the brother of Caesar. Her husbandwas Domitius ^Enobarbus, one of the most illustrious personsthat was in the city of Rome ; after whose death, and her longcontinuance in widowhood, Claudius took her to wife. Shebrought along with her a son, Domitius, of the same name withhis father. He had before this slain his wife Messalina, out ofjealousy, by whom he had his children Britannicus and Octavia ;their eldest sister was Antonia, whom he had by Pelina his firstwife. He also married Octavia to Nero ; for that was the namethat Caesar gave him afterward, upon his adopting him for hisSon. 2. But now Agrippina was afraid, lest, when Britannicus shouldcome to man's estate, he should succeed his father in the govern­ment, and desired to seize upon the principality beforehand forher own son [Nero] ; upon which the report went, that she thencecompassed the death of Claudius. Accordingly she sent Burrhus,the general of the army, immediately, and with him the tribunes,and such also of the rreed-men as were of the greatest authority,to bring Nero away into the camp, and to salute him emperor.And when Nero had thus obtained the government, he got Bri­tannicus to be so poisoned, that the multitude should not perceiveit; although he publicly put Jlis own mother to death not longafterward, making her this requital, not only for being born ofher, but by bringing it so about by her contrivances, that he ob­tained the Roman empire. He also slew Octavia his own wife,and many other illustrious persons, under this pretence, that theyplotted against him. 3. But I omit any farther discourse about these affairs ; forthere have been a great many who have composed the historyof Nero; some of which have departed from the truth of factsout of favour, as having received benefits from him ; whileothers, out of hatred to him, and the great ill-will which theybare him, have so impudently raved against him with their lies,that they justly deserve to be condemned. Nor do I wonder atsuch as have told lies of Nero, since they have not in their wri­tings preserved the truth of history as to those facts that wereearlier than his time, even when the actors could have no wayincurred their hatred, since those writers lived a long time afterthem. But as to those that have no regard to truth, they maywrite as they please ; for in that they take delight: but as toourselves, who have made truth our direct aim, we shall brief­ly touch upon what only belongs remotely to this undertaking,but shall relate what hath happened to us Jews with great accu­racy, and shall not grudge our pains in giving an account both ofthe calamities we have suffered, and of the crimes we have beenguilty of. I will now therefore return to the relation of ourswn affairs. 4. For