OCR Output B. t. 99 IHTRODUCTION. For Persia's hosts o'erthrown, and Graecia freed.To Phoebus THIS Pausanias hath decreed,Who led the Grecians to the glorious deed. These verses indeed the Lacedaemonians immediately de­faced from the tripod, and placed in their stead the names ofthe several states which had joined in the overthrow of theBarbarian, and in making this oblation. This therefore wasnow recollected to the prejudice of Pausanias ; and, in hispresent situation, it was interpreted, from the circumstancesof his late behaviour, as an argument that he had been equallyguilty long before. They had moreover got an informationthat he was tampering with the Helots, which in fact wastrue : For he promised them their liberty and the privilegeof citizens of Sparta, if they would rise at his command, andco-operate with him in the whole of his project. But eventhis would not prevail: They disdained to place so much con­fidence in the informations given by Helots, as to run into ir­regularities to punish him. They adhered to the customever observed amongst them, never to be hasty in forming asentence never to be recalled against a citizen of Sparta,without unquestionable evidence. At length they obtainedthe fullest conviction, as it is said, by means of an Argyllian,an old minion of his, and the person most in his confidence,who was to convey Artabazus the last letters he wrote to theking. This man, alarmed by the recollection that no personsent on these errands before him had ever returned again,having already counterfeited the seal, to the end that if hewas deceived in his suspicions, or Pausanias should demandthem again to make any alteration, he might avoid discovery,breaks open the letters. He found by them, that he was go­ing on the errand his fears foreboded, and that his own mur­der was expressly enjoined. He carried upon this the pac­ket to the Ephori, who were now more than ever convinced,but still were desirous to hear themselves, from the mouth ofPausanias, an acknowledgment of the truth. They thereforecontrived, that this person should go to sanctuary at Tsena­