OCR Output Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 269 Phasael, and Herod, who was afterwards made king, and Jo­seph, and Pheroras; and a daughter named Salome. This An-tipater cultivated also a friendship and mutual kindness withother potentates but especially with the king of Arabia, to'whom he committed his children, while he fought against Aris-tobulus. So Cassius removed his camp, and marched to Eu­phrates, to meet those that were coming to attack him, as hathbeen related by others. 4. But some time afterward, Caesar, when he had takenRome, and after Pompey and the senate were fled beyond theIonian sea, freed Aristobulus from his bonds, and resolved tosend him into Syria, and delivered two legions to him, that hemight see matters right, as being a potent man in that country:But Aristobulus had no enjoyment of what he hoped for fromthe power that was given him by Caesar, for those of Pompey'sparty prevented it, and destroyed him by poison, and those of Ce­sar's party buried him. His dead body also lay, for a good while,embalmed in honey, till Antony afterward sent it to Judea, andcaused him to be buried in the royal sepulchre. But Scipio,upon Pompey's sending to him to slay Alexander, the son ofAristobulus, because the young man was accused of what offen­ces he had been guilty of at first against the Romans, cut off hishead; and thus did he die at Antioch. But Ptolemy, the sonof Menneus, who was the ruler of Chalcis, under mount Liba-nus, took his brethren to him, and sent his son Philippion toAskelon to Aristobulus' wife, and desired her to send backwith him her son Antigonus, and her daughters: The one ofwhich, whose name was Alexandra, Philippion fell in love withand married her, though afterward his father Ptolemy slewhim, and married Alexandra, and continued to take care of herbrethren. CHAP. VIII. The Jems become confederates with Caesar when he fought againstEgypt. The glorious actions of Antipater, and his friendshipwith Ccesar. The honours which the Jews received from theRomans and Athenians. 5 1. Now after Pompey was dead, and after that victoryCaesar had gained over him, Antipater, who managed the Jew­ish affairs, became very useful to Caesar when he made waragainst Egypt, and that by the order of Hyrcanus: For. whenMithridates of Pergamus was bringing his auxiliaries, and wasnot able to continue his march through Pelusium, but obliged tostay at Askelon, Antipater came to him, conducting three thou­