OCR Output 346 THE tELOPONNESlAN WAR. Some of the Cythereans had before-hand obtained a confer­ence with Nicias. This rendered the capitulation more easyand expeditious, and not only the present, but all futurepoints were by this means speedily and satisfactorily ad­justed. For the Athenians insisted that they should eva-cuate Cythera, because they were Lacedaemonians, and be-»cause the island lay so conveniently on the Laconic coast.The accommodation being once perfected, the Athenians,having secured Scandea, the fortress situated upon the har­bour, and fixed a garrison in Cythera, stood away for Asineand Helas, and most of the adjacent places on the coast.There they made descents, and reposing themselves in thenights at the most convenient of those places, they spentabout seven days in ravaging the country. The Lacedaemonians, though they saw the Athenianshad possessed themselves of Cythera, and expected furtherthat they would proceed to make more such descents upontheir territories, yet no where drew together in a body to re­pulse them. They only stationed their parties of guard insuch posts as were of greatest importance. In other re­spects they exerted their utmost vigilance, being under ap­prehensions that the very form of their government was indanger of subversion. Their loss in Sphacteria was unex^pected and great indeed. Pylus was now in the hands ofthe enemy, as was also Cythera. War was bursting in uponthem on all sides with irresistible impetuosity. This com­pelled them, contrary to their usual maxims, to form abody of four hundred horse and archers. If they were everdejected by the prevalence of fear, at this juncture theywere more feelingly so, when they saw the necessity of en­tering the lists contrary to all that practice of war to whichthey had been inured, in a naval contest, and in this againstthe Athenians, whose passion it was to compute as so muchloss whatever they left unattempted. Their general misfor­tune besides, which so suddenly and so fast had poured inupon them, had thrown them into the utmost consternation.