OCR Output an. 742.] 349 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. some to my readers. All which things hap­pened to Nineveh a hundred and fifteenyears afterward.* CHAP. XII. OF THE DEATH OF JOTHAM, AND THE ACCESSION OF AHAZ;THE INVASION OF JERUSALEM BY THE KINGS OF SYKIAAND ISRAEL; AND THE SUBSEQUENT ASSISTANCE WHICHAHAZ RECEIVED FROM TIOLATH-PILESER, KING OF AS­SYRIA. NOW Jotham died, when he had livedforty-one years, and of them reignedsixteen ;f and he was buried in the sepul­chres of the kings. The kingdom then cameto his son Ahaz; who proved most impioustowards God,J and a transgressor of thelaws of his country. He imitated the kingsof Israel, and reared altars in Jerusalem,and offered sacrifices upon them to idols; towhich also he offered his own son as a burnt-offering;|| according to the practice of theCanaanites. His other actions were also ofthe same sort. Now as he was going on inthis mad course, Rezin, king of Syria andDamascus, and Pekah, king of Israel, whowere now at amity, made war with him.And when they had driven him into Jeru­salem, they besieged that city a long while:making but a small progress, on account ofthe strength of its walls. And when theking of Syria had taken the city Elath uponthe Red Sea, and had slain the inhabitants,he peopled it with Syrians; and when hehad slain those in the other garrisons, andthe Jews in their neighbourhood, and haddriven away much prey, he returned with his army back to Damascus.§ Now whenthe king of Jerusalem knew that the Syrianswere returned home, he, supposing himselfa match for the king of Israel, drew out hisarmy against him, and joining battle withhim was beaten. And this happened be­cause God was angry with him, on accountof his many and great enormities. Accord­ingly there were slain by the Israelites onehundred and twenty thousand of his menthat day: whose general, Amaziah, slewZachariah the king's son in this conflict withAhaz; as well as the governor of the king­dom, whose name was Azricam. He alsocarried Elkanah, the general of the troops ofthe tribe of Judah, into captivity; togetherwith the women and children of the tribe ofBenjamin. And when they had got a greatdeal of prey, they returned to Samaria.** Now there was one Obed who was a pro­phet at that time in Samaria; he met thearmy, before the city walls: and with a loudvoice told them, that they had got the vic­tory, not by their own strength, but by thereason of God's anger against king Ahaz:and he complained that they were not satis­fied with the good success they had hadagainst him: but were so bold as to makecaptives out of their kinsmen, the tribes ofJudah and Benjamin. He also gave themcounsel to let them go home, without doingthem any harm; for that if they did not obeyGod herein, they should be punished. Sothe people of Israel came together to theirassembly, and considered of these matters:when a man whose name was Berechiah, andwho was one of chief reputation in the * About an. 611. t From an. 759 to 743. J See what great light is given by the exact know­ledge of this history of Ahaz, Pekah, Rezin, and Tig-lath Pul Assur to the famous prophecy of Isaiah, chap,vii. concerning the deliverance of the family of Davidfrom destruction at this time; and its continuance till thebirth of the Messiah of this family, and that of a virginalso, and concerning some other predictions here con­cerned; in the Supplement to the Literal Accomplishmentsof Prophecies, page 41—54. II 2 Kings xvi. 3. § In the time of Abraham, Damascus was in being;and some of the ancients inform us, that this patriarchreigned there immediately after Damascus, its founder.This much is certain, that one whom he had made free,and appointed steward of his house, was of Damascus,Gen. xv. 2. at the time that he pursued Chedorlaomer, andthe five confederated kings, as far as Hobah, which lies northward of Damascus, Gen. xiv. 15. The Scripturessay nothing more of this city, until the time of David,when Hadad, who according to Josephus, Jewish Antiq.lib. vii. c. 6. was the first who took upon him the titleof king of Damascus, sending troops to the assistance ofHadadezer king of Zobah, was himself defeated by David,and his country subdued. Towards the end of Solomon'sreign, Rezin recovered the kingdom of Damascus, andshook off the Jewish yoke, 1 Kings xi. 23, &c. Sometime after this, Asa king of Judah implored the help ofBenhadad king of Damascus against Baasha king of Israel,1 Kings xv. 18. And from his time the kings of Damascus were generally called Benhadad, till in this last con­troversy with them, Ahaz called in the assistance of theking of Assyria, who killed their king, and carried hissubjects into captivity, according to the predictions ofIsaiah, chap. vii. 9. and Amos, chap. vii. Calmefs Dic­tionary, under the word. B.** 2 Chron. xxviii. 8. 302