OCR Output Chap. I.] THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. 35 African affairs, which excited uneasiness, the Romans re­sorted to the extraordinary measure of intrusting theconduct of the war to the only man who had as yet broughthome honour from the Libyan plains, and who was recom­mended for this war by his very name. Instead of callingScipio to the aedileship for which he was a candidate, theygave to him the consulship before the usual time, settingaside the laws to the contrary effect, and committed to himby special decree the conduct of the African war. Hearrived (607) in Utica at a very critical moment. The 147.Roman admiral Mancinus, charged by Piso with the nominalcontinuance of the siege of the capital, had- occupied a steepcliff, far remote from the inhabited district and scarcelydefended, on the almost inaccessible seaward side of thesuburb of Magalia, and had united nearly his whole not verynumerous force there, in the hope of being able to pene­trate thence into the outer town. In fact the assailantshad been for a moment within its gates and the camp-followers had flocked forward in a body in the hope ofspoil, when they were again driven back to the cliff and,being without supplies and almost cut off, were in thegreatest danger. Scipio found matters in that position. Hehad hardly arrived when he despatched the troops which hehad brought with him and the militia of Utica by sea to thethreatened point, and succeeded in saving its garrison andholding the cliff itself. After this danger was averted, thegeneral proceeded to the camp of Piso to take the commandand bring the army back to Carthage. Hasdrubal andBithyas availed themselves of his absence to move theircamp immediately up to the city, and to renew the attack onthe garrison of the cliff before Magalia; but Scipio appearedwith the vanguard of the main army in sufficient time toafford assistance to the post. So the siege began afresh andmore earnestly. First of all Scipio cleared the camp of themass of camp-followers and sutlers and once more tightenedthe relaxed reins of discipline. Military operations weresoon resumed with increased vigour. In an attack by nighton the suburb the Romans succeeded in passing from atower—placed in front of the walls and equal to them inheight—on to the battlements, and opened a little gatethrough which the whole army entered. The Carthaginiansabandoned the suburb and their camp before the gates,and gave the chief command of the garrison of the city,