OCR Output TOO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book also celebrated the feast of tabernacles at that time, as the legis­lator had ordained concerning it, and after they offered sacrifices,and what were called the daily "sacrifices, and the oblations pro>pei- for the Sabbaths, and for all the holy festivals. Those alsovhat had made'vows performed them, and offered their sacrifices,ironi the firsj day of- the seventh month. They also began tobuild the temple, and gave a great deal of money to the masonsand to the carpenter?, and what was necessary fer the maintenanceof the workmen. The Sidonians also were very willing and rea­dy- to bring the cedar trees from Libanus, to bind them together,and to make an united float of them, and to bring them to theport of Joppa, fop that was what Cyrus had commanded at first,and what was now done at the command of Darius. 2. In the second year of «heir coming to Jerusalem, as the Jewswere there in the second month j the building of the temple wenton apace; and when they hat! laid its foundations on the first dayof the second month, of that second year, they set, as overseers ofthe work, such Levites, as were full twenty years old; and Je-shua and his sons and brethren, and Codmiel the brother of Ju­das, the son of Aminidab, with his sons, and the temple, by thegreat diligence of those that had the care of it, was finished soonerebon any one weuld have expected. And when the temple- wasfinished, the priests, adorned with their accustomed garments^stood with their trumpets, while the Levites, and the sons ofAsaph, stood and sung hymns to God, according as David first ofall appointed them to bless God. Now the priests and Levites,and th« elder part of the families, recollecting with themselveshow much greater and more sumptuous the old temple had been,seeing that now made, how much inferior it was, on account oftfheir'poveity, to that whiclrhad been built of old, "considered withthemselves how much their happy state was sunk below what ithad been of old, as well' as their temple. Hereupon they weredisconsolate and not able to contain their grief, and proceeded sofar as to lament and shed tears on those accounts; but the peoplern general were contented with their present condition, and be­cause they were allowed to build them a temple, they desired nomore, and neither regarded nor remembered, nor indeed at alltormented themselves with the comparison of that and the formertemple, as if this were below their expectations; but the wailing odie old men, and of the priests, on account of the deficiency o".this temple, in their opinion, if compared with that which hadbeen d<emoli*»hed, overcame the sounds of the trumpets andijie rejoicing of the people. 3. -But when tht Samaritans, who were still enemies to thetribes of Jmlah and Benjamin, heard the sound of the trumpets,they can*» ^wming together, and desired to know what was th«