OCR Output 370 [book X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. would be to his advantage; but that hewas afraid of those of his own country, thathad fallen away to the Babylonians; lest heshould be accused by them to the king ofBabylon, and be punished. But the prophetencouraged him, and said, he had no causeto fear such punishment: for that he shouldnot have the experience of any misfortune, ifhe would deliver all up to the Babylonians;neither himself, nor his children, nor hiswives; and that the temple should then con­tinue unhurt. So when Jeremiah had saidthis, the king let him go, and charged him tobetray what they had resolved on to noneof the citizens, nor tell any of these mattersto any of the rulers, if they should havelearned that he had been sent for, andshould inquire of him what it was that hewas sent for, and what he had said to him;but to pretend to them, that he besoughthim that he might not be kept in bonds andin prison. And indeed he said so to them;for they came to the prophet, and askedhim what advice it was that he came togive the king relating to them. CHAP. VIII. OF THE REDUCTION OF JERUSALEM, AND THE REMOVAL OFZEDEKIAH AND HIS SUBJECTS TO BABYLON. NOW the king of Babylon was very intentupon the siege of Jerusalem. And heerected towers upon great banks of earth;and from them repelled those that stoodupon the walls. He also made a great num­ber of such banks round about the wholecity, whose height was equal to those walls.However, those that were within bore thesiege with courage and patience. For theywere not dismayed either by the famine, orby the pestilential distemper: but were ofcheerful minds, in the prosecution of the war; although those miseries within oppressedthem also; and they did not suffer themselves to be terrified, neither by the con-trivances of the enemy, or by their enginesof war; but contrived still different enginesto oppose them; till there seemed to be anentire struggle between the Babylonians,and the people of Jerusalem, which had thegreater sagacity and skill; the former partysupposing they should be thereby too hardfor the other, for the destruction of the city:the latter placing their hopes of deliverancein persevering in such inventions, in oppo­sition to the other, as might demonstratethe enemies' engines were useless to them.And this siege they endured for eighteenmonths; until they were destroyed by thefamine, and by the darts which the enemythrew at them from the towers. At length the city was taken, on the ninthday of the fourth month, in the eleventh yearof the reign of Zedekiah.* They were in­deed only generals of the king of Babylon,to whom Nebuchadnezzar committed thecare of the siege: for he abode himself inthe city of Riblah. The names of thesegenerals who ravaged and subdued Jerusa­lem, if any one desire to know them, werethese: Nergal Sharezer, Samgar Nebo,Rabsaris, Sarsechim, and Rabmag. Andwhen the city was taken, about midnight,and the enemy's generals were entered intothe temple:f and when Zedekiah was sen­sible of it, he took his wives, his children,his captains, and his friends, and fled outof the city, through the fortified ditch, andthrough the desert. And when certain ofthe deserters had informed the Babyloniansof this, at break of day they pursued afterZedekiah, and overtook him not far fromJericho, and encompassed him about. Butfor those friends and captains of Zedekiah, * 2 Kings xxv. 2, 3. t The temple was burnt, from the time that it wasbuilt, four hundred years, says Sir John Marsham; fourhundred and twenty-four years three months and eightdays, says Primate Usshur; four hundred and thirtyyears, says Abarbinel, and other learned Jews: but Jo-sephus computes the thing still higher: for he tells us,that the temple was burnt four hundred and seventy yearssix months and ten days, from the building of it; onethousand and sixty years six months and ten days, fromthe Israelites coming out of the land of Egypt; one thou­sand nine hundred and fifty years and six months and ten days from the deluge; and three thousand five hundredand thirty years six months and ten days from the crea­tion of the world. Josephus stands amazed, that the se­cond temple should be burnt by the Romans in the samemonth, and on the very same day of the month, that thiswas set on fire by the Chaldeans, and as some of theJewish doctors say, when the Levites were singing thesame psalm in both destructions, viz. xciv. 23. He shallbring upon them their own iniquity, and he shall cotthem off in their own wickedness; yea, the Lord out"God shall cut them off. Patrick's Commentary, andJewish Antiq. lib. X. c. 11. 6.