OCR Output 180 ANTIQUITIES Ol THE JKWS. Book XII. "the temple of Diana in Persia;" for the * purposing to do athing, but not actually doing it, is not worthy of punishment.But if Polybius could think, that Antiochus thus lost his lifeon that account, it is much more probable that this king diedon account of his sacrilegious plundering of the temple at Jeru­salem. But we will not contend about this matter with thosewho may think, that the cause assigned by this Polybius ofMegalopolis is nearer the truth than that assigned by us. 2. However, Antiochus, before he died, called tor Philip,who was one of his companions, and made him the guardian ofhis kingdom; and gave him his diadem, and his garment, andhis ring, and charged him to carry them, and deliver them tohis son Antiochus; and desired him to take care of his educa­tion, and to preserve the kingdom for him. f This Antiochusdied in the hundred forty and ninth year: But it was Lysiasthat declared his death to the multitude, and appointed his sonAntiochus to be king, (of whom at present he had the care,)and called him Eupator. 3. At this time it was that the garrison in the citadel at Jeru­salem, with the Jewish runagates, did a great deal of harm to theJews: for the soldiers that were in that garrison rushed out uponthe sudden, and destroyed such as were going up to the templein order to offer their sacrifices, for this citadel adjoined to, andoverlooked the temple. When these misfortunes had often hap­pened to them, Judas resolved to destroy that garrison; where­upon he got all the people together, and vigorously besiegedthose that were in the citadel. This was in the hundred andfiftieth year of the dominion of the Seleucidae. So he made en­gines of war, and erected bulwarks, and very zealously pressedon to take the citadel: But there were not a few of the runa­gates who were in the place, that went out by night into thecountry, and got together some other wicked men like them­selves, and went to Antiochus the king, and desired of him,That "he would not suffer them to be neglected, under the"great hardships that lay upon them from those of their own * Since St. Paul, a Pharisee, confesses, that he had not known concvpitcence. 01tesircs, to be sinful, had not the tenth commandment said, Thou shalt not covet;Rom. vii. 7. the case seems to have been much the same with our Josephus, whowas of the same sect; that he had not a deep sense of the greatness of any sins thatproceeded no farther than the intention. However, since Joaepbus speaks here pro­perly uf the punishment of death, which is Dot inflicted by any law either of God orman for the bare intention, his words need not to be strained to mean, that sins in­tended, but not executed, were no sins at all. ')' No wonder that Josephus here describes Antiochus Eupator as young, andwanting tuition, when he came to the crown, since Appian informs us, Syriae, p.177, that he was then but nine years old.