OCR Output PEBUSIA. 579 was anal district; though is later times the name»t» applatd generally to the subject* of the greatLev. shot* empire extended, aoder Dareius the son4 iititatpM. from India to the Mediterranean. In*» earliest lima* of the Old Testament they are«s natkned by name as a distinct people, and■sea, a the baler days of the eaptirity, their nameennu they mast be taken as the inhabitants of thena: enpire above noticed {Estk. xxxriii. 5; Ettk. U; xSera, rr. 3; 1 Uaocab. i. 1, etc), and noti»|«y of the muted district of Penis. According'Hiradntas, the ancient people were divided inton baiting classes, warriors, hnsbandmen, and■tarn. In the first class, the Pasargsdae, Ma-sju. and Maspii, were the most important sub-vtswsul The Ai li—nsiialai t from whom theirli-caown bne of kings descended, was one of theaaiss af the Pasargsdae. The tribes of husband-si Ban the names of Panthialaei, Dernsiaei andraaao; (hose of the nomades were called, Dai,na. braced and Sagartii. (Herod. L 125 ) It issc ha this account that Herodotus is describingsc was the state of the Persae but a little whilebaa Bat on times, and that his view embraces a"TMT far mors extensive than that of the smalllaaa of* Persia. We must suppose, from his noticethat he extended the Persianable portion of what is now called■.- sauced, over much of the conntry whichday farms the realm of Persia. In. after tsnass, other tribes or subdivisions are met... ai the Paraetaoeni. Messabalae, htahaei, Suzaei,as^baci, dec ttc Herodotus states further thatoast aauent same of the people was Artaeiasal Tit. 61), a farm which modern philology hasaa ts ha m csoss connection with that of toek the earliest title of their immediate neighbours,Medea* Both alike are derived from the old ■ sad Sauaacrit Arya, signifying a people of nobleaat. a Bastes still preserved in the modern J'rakataV (Mu!>r.-/'i«ra. Amat iii. p. 299: Lassen,Aturii. is. a. 7.) There can be no doubt that the ■ i'i mi is itself of Indian origin, the earliest1-a whsch it is found oa the cuneiform inscrip-i .war /Vast (Lassen, Alt-Pert. KeU-lntcr. M Is Persian poofle stem to hare been in allI acsjsi f-w tike pride and haughtiness of theirBar* (Aeacfcyi. Pert. 795; Asm Marc, xxiii.sal, as spate <af this habit of boasting, in theirV aeatearj. aadur Cyms and his irnnwdiate sue-as. they aappear to bar* made excellent soldiers,aans arambes folly the arms and aecuutre-archers, and lancers of(vis. 61), on which descriptionUptons at Persepolis afford a(Of. also Strab. xv. p. 734;Car ay vi. 3. § SI.) Their cavalry also wasam (Hcrcd- L c ix. 79, 81; Xen. Cyn>p. vi.|k farmr*-. wbto for the most part confinesssjs* est Pasaass to the inhabitants of Persia,My eVasjihaJ same of the manners and cus-sf lata sjssifts Oa the subject of tlieir re-Heradetos and Strabo are not at ra law writer gives separate and uneon-TL* geoerai eancluaion to be drawnmotes* ages, the Persians were puref-w4 that by degrees they adopteda characteristic of tlieirthe IHsalistic arrangement of twoa of good sad evil, Iiormuzd and Ahriman. (Strab. xv. p. 727—736; Herod, i. 33,133; Xen. Cyrop. i. 22.) Many of their ancientreligious customs have continued to the present day;the fire-worshippers of India still contending thatthey are the lineal descendants of the ancientPersians. Tlie language of the ancient people wasstrictly Indo-Germanic, and was nearly connectedwith the classical Sanscrit: the earliest specimens ofit are the cuneiform inscriptions at Mur</h<ib,— thesite of Pasargada, and the place where Cyrus wasburied,—and those of Dareius and Xerxes at Perse­polis and Behistdn, which have been deciphered byColonel Kawlinson and Professor Lassen. (Kawlinson,Joum. A s. Soc vol. x.; Lassen, Zeittchriftf. Mor~gad. vi. 1; Hitsig, Grabtchrifl d. Darmt, Zurich,1847; Benfey, Pa-t-Keil-Intcrift, Leipzig, 1847.) The government of Persia was a rigid monarchy.Their kings lived apart from their subjects in wellsecured palaces {Estk. iv. 2, 6), and rejoiced ingreat parks (aapdScnroi), well stocked with gameand animals for the chase {Cyrop. i. 3. § 14, viii. 1.§ 38, ;4na6. i. 2. § 7; Curt. viii. 1. § 11), andpassed (in later times, when tlieir empire was mostwidely extended) tlieir summer at Krbatana, tlieirspring at Sosa, and their winter at Babylon. (Nehtm.i. 1; Da*, viii. 2; Etlk. i. 2, S; Xen. Anab. iii. 5.§ 15, Cyrop. viii. 6. § 22.) Like other easternmonarchs, the Persian kings possessed a well ap­pointed harem, many curious details of which wegather from the history of Esther (cf. also Curt,iii. § 3; A then. xiii. p. 557; Plat Arlax. c 43);and they were accustomed to receive from their sub­jects direct adoration (TpoirKoeuois), as the pre­sumed descendants or representatives of Hormuzd.(Pint Themut. c. 7; Curt, vi 6. § 2, viii. 5. § 6.)Their local government was a pure despotism; but| in souie extraordinary cases a sort of privy council| was called of the seven chief princes, who stoodaround the royal throne, like the Amshaspands roundthe throne of Iiormuzd. (Herod, vii. 8, viii. 67;Etth. i. 14, 19, vii. 14.) Whatever document li.nlonce passed the king and had been sealed by theroyal signet was deemed irrevocable. (Ettk. L 19,viii. 8; Dan. vi. 9, 16; cf. also Cbardin, Voy. iii.418.) Over the individual provinces—w hich in thetime of Dareius were said to hare been twenty innumber (Her. iii. 89), but were subsequently muchmore numerous {Etth. i. 1), probably from the sub­division of the larger ones—were placed satrap,whose business it was to superintend them, to collectthe revenues, snd to attend to the progress of agricul­ture, (Her. iii. 69, 97; Joseph. Ant. xi. 3, &c.)Between the satraps and tlie kings was a well or­ganised system of couriers, who were called HtyyatmorsVTov&ulPlut. Fort. Alex. vii. p. 294, ed. Beiskr),who conveyed their despatches from station testationon horses, and had the power, when necessary, to presshorses, boats, and even men into their service. Asthis Mike was very irksome and oppressive, theword ayyaptvtw came to mean compulsion or de­tention under other circumstances. (Joseph. Ant.xiii. 2. § 3; Etth. iii. 13, 15,viii. 10, 14; Bentley'sMewmdtr, p. 66.) The history of the Persian empire need not berepeated here, as it is given under the names of therespective kings in the Diet of Biogr. [V.] PERTU'SA, a town of the llergrtes in HisjmniaTarraconeiisis, which still exists under the old nameon the Alcanadre. (/(ra. Aut. p. 391.) [T.H.D.]PERU'SIA(flrnooo-ia: Eth.Perusinus; J'ervgin),one of the most important and powerful cities of P V 2