OCR Output LIBYA. LIBYCUM MAKE. 181 (3) the Phoenicians, and (4) the Greeks. He enu­merate, moreover, a considerable number of indi­genous tribes, and his catalogue of them is greatlyincrrased by subsequent writers, e.g. Scylax, Hanno,Folybina, and Ptolemy. When, however, we wouldawh.Tt to these a generic connection, or a local habi­tation, the insurmountable difficulty meets us whichever attends the description of nomad races; igno­rance of their language, of their relations with oneanther, and their customary or proper districts.The Greek geographers, in their efforts to renderthe names of barbarians euphonic, impenetrably dis­guise them for the most part. Again, their infor­mation of the interior was principally derived fromtae merchants, or guides of the caravans : and thesepersons had a direct interest, even if their knowledgewere exact or various, in concealing it. Aloreover,tlw trareller, even if unbiassed, was liable to errorin his impression of these regions. The population,beyond the settled and cultivated districts, was ex­tremely fluctuating. In the rainy season they inha-l-ittd the plains, in the hot months the highlands,acmniingly as their cattle required change of climateand pasture. The same tribe might, therefore, ben-ckoned twice, and exhibited under the oppositecharacteristics of a highland or a lowland people.Parage races also are often designated, when de-Kiibed by travellers, by names accidentally caughtup or arbitrarily imposed, and not by their genuinear*j native appellations. Thus Herodotus, in com*man wiih the other geographers of antiquity, givesan undue extension to the name AetMopes, derivedfrr>m the mere accident of a black or dark com­plexion, and had he been acquainted with the Caffirsud the Hottentots, he would, doubtless, from theircairar, hare placed them in the same category.The diet of the Ichthyophagi was not restricted tor*h, tince they were also breeders of cattle; butthey acquired that appellation from their principalfood at one season of the year. The Troglodytes,during the spring and summer months, dwelt amongthe low meadows and morasses of Meroe and Ae-ttnspta; but their name was given them because,dttrinj: the rainy period, they retired to habitations*c-wp«l in the rocks. "With regard to the nativer*ce> of Libya, the only secure presumption is, thatttey formed one of those sporadic offsets of the humanfamily which remain in, or acquire a lower degree ofcivilisation, because they have wandered beyond theTrrje of the great empires and communities in»h:ch civilisation is matured. The Libyan con­tinent has, indeed, been in all ages the principalrwrt of these sporadic tribes. The desert6, whichittMTfiK between the cultivated and uncultivatedjard'ona of it, removed much of its population fromthe neighbourhood of cities; they were liable to noadmixtures from other countries; they were nevertVcojjrhly subdued or intermingled with superiorraws; and though, as in the instance of the Perioeci<rf the Greek states, the Liby-Phoenicians in thetemaiao* of Carthage, and the subordinate castesrf Aegypt, they were not incapable of a highcarnal cultivation; yet, when left to themselves,they continued to exist under the simplest forms of•ocaJ fife. Combining the glimpses we obtain fromthe ancients with the more accurate knowledge ofthe modems, we ape warranted in ascribing to them,pwrally, s monarchical form of government, with«:* control from the priests and assembly ofchief men, warlike and migratory habits, debasedsedition of the female sex, and the vice of Africa, in all ages, constant warfare, waged with the solepurpose of supplying the slave-markets of theKorth and East. The Fauna of Libya must not be unnoticed. Inthe northern deserts tawny and grey tints are theprevailing colours, not merely in birds and beasts,but also in reptiles and insects. In consequence ofthe extension of this barren region from NorthAfrica through Arabia to Persia and India, manysimilar species of animals are common to bothcontinents, — as the ass, antelopes, leopards, pan­thers, and hyaenas. The cat tribe prevails ingreat beauty and variety: the lion of Mount Atlas issaid to be the strongest and most formidable of hisspecies. The African elephant is different from theAsiatic, and has always been preferred to it formilitary purposes. The hippopotamus, which wasknown to the ancients as the inhabitant of theSenegal aud the Upper Nile, appears to be a differentspecies from that which is found in the inter-tropicaland southern parts of the continent. The magot orBarbary apo was known to the ancients, and ismentioned by the Byzantine writers as imported forthe menageries of Constantinople. The giraffe orcamelopard is found as far north as the GreatDesert. It appears on the monuments of Aegypt,and was exhibited in the imperial triumphs atRome. The Atlas region contains two kinds offallow-deer, one of which is the common fallow-deerof Europe. The ox of Nubia, Abyssinia, and Bornouis remarkable for the extraordinary size of its horns,which are sometimes two feet in circumference atthe root Of the Libyan animals generally it maybe remarked, that while the species which requirerich vegetation and much water are found in theAtlas valleys and the plains below them, the Desertabounds in such kinds as are content with scantierherbage,—such as the deer, the wild ass, and theantelope. These being fleet of foot, easily removefrom the scorched to the green pasture, and find asufficient supply of water in the ooze of the river beds. As regards its Flora, the northern coast of Libya,and the range of the Atlas generally, may be re­garded as a zone of transition, where the plants ofsouthern Europe are mingled with those peculiarto Africa. The Greek and Phoenician colonistsbuilt their naval armaments of the pine and oak ofMount Atlas, the Aleppo pine and the sandarack orThuia articulate, being celebrated for their closegrain and durability. The vegetation of the interiorhas been already in part mentioned. The largeforests of date-palms, along the southern base of theAtlas, are its principal woodland. The date tree isindigenous, but improved by cultivation. Of theDesert itself stunted shrubs are the only producebesides the coarse prickly grass (pennisetum dicho-tomwm), which covers large tracts, and supplies fodderto the camels. For the authorities upon which this account ofLibya rests, see, besides the ancient writers alreadycited, the travels of Shaw, Horneiminn, Burckhardt;Kilter's Erdkutule, Africa; Heeren, Ideen, vol. i.;Mannert's Geographic, Libya; and Maltebrun,Afrique. [W. B. D.] LIBYA PALUS. [Libya, p. 180, b.; Triton.] HBYARCHAE. [Makmahica.] UBYCI MONTES. [Aegtptus,p.37; Oasis.] U'BYCUM MARK (to H&vkqv *4\ayos, wd>-tos AtSur/i), was the name applied to that part ofthe Mediterranean which washed the shores ofN. Africa, from the E. coast of Africa Propria ou N 3