OCR Output 258 THE REVOLT OF THE ITALIAN SUBJECTS, [Bock IV. stones and bludgeons by bis soldiers, wbo believed them­selves betrayed by their general to the enemy; and Sullathe commander-in-chief contented himself with exhortingthe troops to efface the memory of that occurrence by theirbrave conduct in presence of the enemy. The authors ofthat deed were the marines, from of old the least respect­able of the troops. A division of legionaries raised chieflyfrom the city populace soon followed the example thusgiven. Instigated by Gaius Titius, one of the heroes of themarket-place, it laid hands on the consul Cato. By an acci­dent he escaped death on this occasion; Titius was arrested,but was not punished. .When Cato soon afterwards actuallyperished in a combat, his own officers, and particularly theyounger Gaius Marius, were—whether justly or unjustlycannot be ascertained—designated as the authors of hisdeath.Economic To the political and military crisis thus beginning fell tocrisis. be added the economic crisis—perhaps still more terrible— which set in upon the Roman capitalists in consequence ofthe Social war and the Asiatic troubles. The debtors,unable even to raise the interest due and yet inexorablypressed by their creditors, had on the one hand entreatedfrom the proper judicial authority, the urban praetor Asellio,a respite to enable them to dispose of their possessions,and on the other hand had searched out once more theold obsolete laws as to usury (i. 311) and, in accordancewith the rule established in olden times, had sued theircreditors for fourfold the amount of the interest paid tothem contrary to the law. Asellio applied himself to bendthe de facto existing law to the letter, and sanctioned in theusual way the desired actions for interest; whereupon theoffended creditors assembled in the Forum under the leader­ship of the tribune of the people Lucius Cassius, and at-Murderof tacked and killed the praetor in front of the temple ofAsellio. Concord, just as in his priestly robes he was presenting asacrifice—an outrage, which was not even made a subject83. of investigation (665). On the other hand it was said inthe circles of the debtors, that the suffering multitudecould not be relieved otherwise than by "new account-books," that is, by legally cancelling the claims of allcreditors against all debtors. Matters stood again exactlyas they had stood during the strife of the orders; once morethe capitalists in league with the prejudiced aristocracy