OCR Output 424 [BOOK XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. artificially contrived vessels, which the kingsent to God; that all may see how great aregard the king had for God. For he allow­ed a vast deal of expenses for these vessels;and came often to the workmen, and viewedtheir works; and suffered nothing of careless­ness or negligence to be any damage to theiroperations. And I will relate how rich theywere, as well as I am able. Although per­haps the nature of this history may not re­quire such a description: but I imagine Ishall thereby recommend the elegant stateand magnanimity of this king to those whoread this history. And first I will describe what belongs tothe table. It was indeed in the king's mindto make this table vastly large in its dimen­sions. But then he gave order, that theyshould learn what was the magnitude of thetable which already was at Jerusalem; andhow large it was: and whether there was apossibility of making one larger than it. Andwhen he was informed how large that waswhich was already there; and that nothinghindered, but a larger might be made: hesaid, that he was willing to have one madethat should be five times as large as the pre­sent table: but his fear was, that it mightbe then useless in their sacred ministrationsby its too great largeness. For he desiredthat the gifts he presented them, should notonly be there for shew; but should be use­ful also in their sacred ministrations. Ac­cording to which reasoning, that the formertable was made of so moderate a size foruse, and not for want of gold, he resolved,that he would not exceed the former tablein largeness; but would make it exceed itin the variety and elegance of its materials.And as he was sagacious in observing thenature of all things, and in having a just no­tion of what was new and surprising; andwhere there were no sculptures, he wouldinvent such as were proper by his own skill,and would shew them to the workmen; hecommanded, that such sculptures should nowbe made; and that those which were deline­ated should be most accurately formed, by aconstant regard to their delineation. When therefore the workmen had underta­ken to make the table, they framed it in length * Two cubits. Aristasus; as Exod. xxy. 23. xxxvii.10- and Antiq. iii. 6. two cubits and a half,* in breadth one cubit,and in height one cubit and a half: and theentire structure of the work was of gold.They also made a crown, of a hand breadthround it; with wave-work wreathed about it:and with an engraving which imitated a cord,and was admirably turned on its three parts:for as they were of a triangular figure, everyangle had the same disposition of its sculp­tures: that when he turned them about, thevery same form of them was turned about,without any variation. Now that part of thecrown work that was enclosed under the table,had its sculptures very beautiful: but thatpart which Went round on the outside, wasmore elaborately adorned with most beautifulornaments; because it was exposed to sight,and to the view of the spectators. For whichreason both those sides which were extantabove the rest were acute; and none of theangles appeared less than another, when thetable was turned about. Now into the cord-work thus turned, were precious stones insert­ed, in rows parallel one to the other, enclosedin golden buttons, which had ouches in them.But the parts that were on the side of thecrown, and were exposed to the sight, wereadorned with a row of oval figures obliquelyplaced, of the most excellent sort of preciousstones; which imitated rods laid close, andencompassed the table round about. But un­der these oval figures, thus engraven, theworkmen had put a crown all round it;where the nature of all sorts of fruit wasrepresented, by the work of the engraver;insomuch that the bunches of grapes hung up.And when they had made the stones to re­present all the aforementioned kinds of fruits,and each in its proper colour; they madethem fast with gold round the whole table.The like dispositions of the oval figures, andof the engraved rods, was framed under thecrown; that the table might on each sideshew the same appearance of variety, andelegance of its ornaments; that so neither theposition of the wave-work, nor of the cro"Wnmight be different; although the table wereturned on the other side; but that the pros­pect of the same artificial contrivances mightbe extended as far as the feet. For therewas made a plate of gold, four fingers broad,through the entire breadth of the table; intowhich they inserted the feet; and then fast­