OCR Output 113S THEBAE AEGYPTI. THEBAE AEGYPTI. the guardianship of this deity, bincc she was believedto receive the sun in her arms as he sank behind theloestrrn hill*. This quarter, again, in the age ofthe Ptolemies, was termed "the Libyan suburb"which was subdivided also into particular districts,such as the Memnoneia (rd Mefivovud, Young,Hieroglyph. Literature, pp. 69, 73) and Thyna-bunmn, where the priests of Osiris were interred.(Wilkinson, Atic. Egj/ptkmt, vol. v. p. 387.) The power and prosperity of Thebes arose fromthree sources — trade, manufacture*, and religion.Its position on the Nile, near the great avenuesthrough the Arabian hills to the Ited Sea, and to theinterior of Libya through the western desert, render­ing it a common entrepot for the Indian trade on theone side, and the caravan trade with the gold, ivory,and aromatic districts on the other, and its com­parative vicinity to the mines which intersect thelimestone borders of the Red Sea, combined to makeThebes the greatest emporium in Eastern Africa,until Alexandrei*turned the stream of commerce intoanother channel. It was also celebrated for its linenmanufacture—an important fabric in a countrywhere a numerous priesthood was interdicted fromthe use of woollen garments (Plin. ix. 1. b. 4). Theglass, pottery, and intaglios of Thebes were alsoin high repute, and generally the number andmagnitude of its edifices, sacred and secular, musthave attracted to the city a multitude of artisans,who were employed in constructing, decorating, orrepairing them. The priestsalone and their attend­ants doubtless constituted an enormous population,for, as regarded Aegypt, and for centuries Aeihiopiaalso, Thebes stood in the relation occupied byRome in medieval Christendom,—it was the sacer­dotal capital of all who worshipped Amnion fromivlusium to Axume, and from the Oases of Libyato tiic Red Sea. The history of Thebes is not entirely the samewith that of Aegypt itself, since the predominance ofthe Upper Kingdom implies a very different era inAegyptian annals from that of the lower, or theDelta. It may perhaps be divided into three epochs:I. The period which preceded the occupation ofLower Aegypt by the Assyrian nomades, when it isdoubtful whether Memphis or Thebes were the ca­pital of the entire country, or whether indeed boththe Thebaid and the Delta were not divided into se­veral smaller states, such as that of Heliopolis inthe N., and Abydus in the S., the rivals respec­tively of Memphis and Thebes. 2. The intervalbetween the expulsion of the Assyrians by Thou-tMiosis, and the 21st dynasty of Tanite kings. Dur­ing all this period, Thebes was unquestionably thecapital of all the Nile-valley, from the Mediterraneanto the island of Argo iu lat. Ht°31'N. 3. The pe-riod of decadence, when the government of Aegyptwas centered in the Delta, and Thebes was probablylittle more than the head-quarters of the sacerdotalcaste and the princi[wtl refuge of old Aegyptian lifeand manners. And this threefold division is ren­dered the more probable by the consideration that,until the Assyrian empire became formidable, andPhoenicia important from its maritime power, Aothio-pia. rather than Arabia or Syria, was the formidableneighbour of Aegypt. Under the Old Monarchy there is no trace ofAegyptian dominion extending beyond the peninsulaof Sinai, the northern shores of the lied Sea. or theLibyan tribes adjoining the Delta. During thisperiod invasion was apprehended almost exclusively ic *«-. <*> . from the S. The Aethiopians woe *o ha *r-like, and perhaps as civilised, as tbe Aeryptaa;the Nile afforded them direct iafrea to fta Re­gions north of the Cataract*, and they werrtias.iithe Syrians and north-ea*t#ro states htaart dm-wards, the immediate objects of war. tnaD(t, era-termarriages with the Pharaohs of Ttcbf*. ¥*■the Theban state was powerful enough teexpri atAssyrian nomades, it must have already ascentalliance or the subjection of Aethiopis: tad u* at­tention of its ruler* was thenceforward <fcnCid »the eastern frontier of the Lower Kingdom. A«*±ingly we find that while only one uome in u* uVbaid and one in Middle Aegypt were ase^ud »t»native militia, the bulk of the Cala&irisiami H*a>bytians was permanently quartered is ibe Deka The greatness of Thebes ctxnmeDces «tk arISth dynasty of the Pharaohs and the a**effejcause of it appears to have been the ccikawefforts of the Upper Country to expel tbe ,shepherds from the Delta. Tbe Tbehtid icapital were, probably, at do pcthese invaders; since, according to MideoVsicount of the 17th dynasty, there were thee r«atemporaneous kingdoms in Aegypt — tbe ttai |rented by the Hykaos, and the Thebaid W a*ajmonarchs. Thoutmosis, king of Thebes, «a> at Iprincipal agent in the expulsion of tbe intrGiafcaajhis exploits against them are caniroetrvyntp: « a»jtemples at Kanttik. Memphis and tbe *>|gether with the lesser states, such MXob,*CBaalfrom the invaders, thenceforward were uoJff nV** jminion of the kings of Thebes. Its noaraaaftwlasted nearly eight centuries, i. e, from aaataasto 800 b. c. During this period the moat coo5p»cca» iseaaarwere Amenophia L, who appears, freea tot a^-ments. to have received divine bonoondecease, and to ha\e been regarded as tbr *oa»fonnderofthe monarchy. He probah!* rsrak laarms beyond the north-eastern frontier aflat Iflinto Syria, and his presence in Aethiopi* a ••■■Jin a grotto at I brim near A loofimlxl. Tal^flflor conquests of Amenophis in the X iaii*inferred from the circumstance that ia tbe «agtares he is represented as destroying or lescrea^tire Asiatic and Aethiopian tribe*. Next is aaaa^sion is Thothmes I., with whose reaz* ifoaaMhave begun the scries of Theban ^cited the wonder of tbe Greeks,almost in their original magruficerjee. aad al J a*sequent travellers. The foundation*, at least «*aipalace of the kings were laid by th» aa»aaTliothmes also, like his predecessors, appev\ aathe monuments, to have made war with A*?ra. eato have extended las dominion as hi»jh c» 'J*Mas the island of Argo in upper Nut m. ] <r"»Bmaintained or even enlarged tbe n-aiai whka alherited, since his name has been knjtd «iBirkel. theNapata of the Koroans. hs. ifju'XMthis period Aeihiopia was apparently an ■the Theban kingdom, ami it* rulers «r i"to have been of tlie blood royal «f Aegypt. Ifor the first lime, and until theMenephthah (liosellini, J/on.Ay.taa.zxxi.—kmeet with the title of the t».ya! ;.t .» jn«4Aethiopia. The records of this reiki. ha«»perished; the great obelisks of AVnsai. ti^aSuttest the flourishing condition of eant*BD?«*T &They were erected by Xeoit Amen. tfc» aa*>4Thothmes II., who appears, like the Nit«o» <im