OCR Output 14 THE DECLINE AND FALL *7 chap. or quarters of the city. It may be sufficient to ob-XIv' serve, that whatever could adorn the dignity of a greatcapital, or contribute to the benefit or pleasure ofits numerous inhabitants, was contained within thewalls of Constantinople. A particular description,composed about a century after its foundation, enu­merates a capitol or school of learning, a circus, twotheatres, eight public, and one hundred and fifty-threeprivate, baths, fifty-two porticoes, five granaries, eightaqueducts or reservoirs of water, four spacious hallsfor the meetings of the senate or courts of justice,fourteen churches, fourteen palaces, and four thou­sand three hundred and eighty-eight houses, which,for their size or beauty, deserved to be distinguishedfrom the multitude of plebeian habitations*.Population. The populousness of this favoured city was thenext and most serious object of the attention of itsfounder. In the dark ages which succeeded thetranslation of the empire, the remote and the imme­diate consequences of that memorable event werestrangely confounded by the vanity of the Greeks,and the credulity of the Latins. It was asserted andbelieved, that all the noble families of Rome, thesenate, and the equestrian order, with their innumera­ble attendants, had followed their emperor to thebanks of the Propontis; that a spurious race ofstrangers and plebeians was left to possess the solitudeof the ancient capital; and that the lands of Italy,long since converted into gardens, were at once de­prived of cultivation and inhabitants. In the course.of this history, such exaggerations will be reduced totheir just value: yet, since the growth of Constan­tinople cannot be ascribed to the general increase ofmankind and of industry, it must be admitted, that • See the Notitia. Rome only reckoned 1780 large houses, damns; but theword must have had a more dignified signification. No insula are mentioned atConstantinople. The old capital consisted of 424 streets, the new of Ml.