OCR Output xc A Survey of the History. mer had been laughed into a general, and is now grownso conceited that he wants to enter the lists against thattruly heroic Spartan. He accordingly arrives in Thrace, atthe head of a squadron and a fine body of land-forces. Heretakes a town or two: is confident he shall soon recoverthe important city of Amphipolis; and, though contemnedby his own soldiers, he endeavours to brave the enemy.Brasidas, having harangued his men with his usual spirit,throws open the gates, sallies out of Amphipolis, and routshim in an instant. Cleon falls a victim to his own cowar­dice, and Brasidas also drops a victim to his own valour.The latter lives long enough to know his own side had con­quered, and then expires, admired by all that knew him, andmost highly regretted by the allies of his country. Their riddance from Cleon diminished the loss of Athensin this defeat, and the Lacedaemonians had dearly purchasedthe victory with the loss of their hero. As the principalStates were now pretty nearly balanced, and sadly tired ofthe war, a truce is concluded for a year, and a peace soonafter settled by the management chiefly of Nicias. Thucy-dides hath given us the forms of negotiating and drawing uptreaties. They are curious morsels of antiquity, and thereader will see with admiration, how solemn, how concise,and yet how guarded they are. The peace turns out to bemerely nominal. The Corinthians, who cannot relish it atall, set their invention to work in order to embroil Greeceafresh, and to re-kindle a general war. Several wars breakout, in which the Athenians and Lacedaemonians are con­cerned as auxiliaries. And another State in Greece, whichhitherto had been neutral and saving its strength entire,endeavours now to seize the primacy of Greece for itself.We shall be made privy to all her negotiations for carryingon the plan, and see it all blasted by one battle at Manti-nea. This State was the republic of Argos in Peloponne­sus, which had been in long alliance with but in no depend­ence at all upon Athens, and had been for a long time also