OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 84>7 employment was bestowed upon him accordingly. Now, whenHerod was come into Egypt, he was introduced to Caesar withgreat freedom, as already a friend of his, and received very greatfavours from him; for he made him a present of those fourhundred Galatians who had been Cleopatra's guards, and restor­ed that country to him again, which by her means, had beentaken away from him. He also added to his kingdom, Gadara,Hippos, and Samaria: and, besides those, the maritime cities,Gaza, and Anthedon, and Joppa, and Strato's Tower. 4. Upon these new acquisitions, he grew more magnificent,and conducted Caesar as far as Antioch; but upon his return, asmuch as his prosperity was augmented by the foreign additionsthat had been made him, so much the greater were the distressesthat came upon him in his own family, and chiefly in the affairof his wife, wherein he formerly appeared to have been mostof all fortunate; for the affection he had for Mariamne wasno way inferior to the affections of such as are on that accountcelebrated in history, and this very justly. ^As for her, she wasin other respects a chaste woman, and faithful to him; yet hadshe somewhat of a woman rough by nature, and treated her hus­band imperiously enough, because she saw he was so fond of heras to be enslaved to her. She did not also consider seasonablywith herself that she lived under a monarchy, and that she was atanother's disposal, and accordingly would behave herself after asaucy manner to him, which yet he usually put off' in a jestingway, and bore with moderation and good temper. She wouldalso expose his mother and his sister openly, on account of themeanness of their birth, and would speak unkindly of them, in­somuch, that there was before this a disagreement and unpardon­able hatred among the women, and it was now come to greaterreproaches of one another than formerly, which suspicions in­creased, and lasted a whole year after Herod returned from Cae­sar. However, these misfortunes, which had been kept undersome decency for a great while, burst out all at once upon suchan occasion as was now offered; for as the king was one dayabout noon lain down on his bed to rest him, he called for Ma­riamne, out of the great affection he had always for her. Shecame in accordingly, but would not lie down by him: and whenhe was very desirous of her company, she showed her contemptof him; and added, by way of reproach, that he had caused * her * Whereas Mariamne is here represented as reproaching Herod with the murderof \icrfather [Alexander,] as well as her brother [Aristobulus,] while it was hergrandfather Hyrcanus, ana not her father Alexander, whom be caused to be slain,fas Josephus himself informs us, ch. vi. sect. 2.) we must either take Zonora's read­ing, which is here grandfather rightly, or else we must, :u before, ch. i. sect. 1. allowa slip of Josephus' pen, or memory, in the place before us. VOL. II XX . . 25