OCR Output 414 THE COMMOWEAETH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. designedly left the public uncertain whether it was receivingsilver or token money, and to what total amount the latterwas in circulation. In the embarrassed period of the civilwar and of the great financial crisis they seem to have sounduly availed themselves of plating, that a monetary crisisaccompanied the financial one, and the quantity of spuriousand partially worthless pieces rendered dealings extremelyinsecure. Accordingly during the Cinnan government an en­actment was passed by the praetors and tribunes, primarilyby Marcus Marius Gratidianus (P. 352), for redeeming allthe token-money by means of silver-money, and for thatpurpose an assay-office was established. How far the calling-in was effected, tradition has not told us; the coining oftoken-money itself continued to subsist.Provincial -^s to tne provinces, in accordance with the setting asidemoney. of gold money on principle the coining of gold was nowherepermitted, not even in the client-states; so that a goldcoinage at this period occurs only where Rome had nothingat all to say, namely among the Celts to the north of theCevennes and among the states in revolt against Rome;the Italians, for instance, and Mithradates Eupator struckgold coins. The government seems to have made efforts tobring the coinage of silver also more and more into its hands,Currency of particularly in the West. In Africa, where in consequencethe East. of the Carthaginian system of token-money there was atthe time of the Roman conquest no proper native money,none such was introduced by the Romans and certainly fromthe first the denarius alone was current. The same was pro­bably true of Sardinia. In Spain and Sicily, which cameearlier to the Romans and experienced altogether a mildertreatment, silver was no doubt coined under the Roman rule,and indeed in the latter country the silver coinage wasfirst called into existence by the Romans and based on theRoman standard (ii. 68, 207, 381); but there exist goodgrounds for the supposition, that in both countries at leastfrom the beginning of the seventh century the provincialand urban mints were under the necessity of restrictingtheir issues to copper small money. Only in NarboneseGaul the right of coining silver could not be withdrawnfrom the old-allied and considerable free city of M assilia;and the same was perhaps true of the Greek cities in Illyria,Apollouia and Dyrrachium. But the privilege of thesecommunities to coin money was restricted indirectly by the