OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 161 "he came to have so many bones before him?" he replied,"Very rightfully, my lord: for they are dogs that eat the flesh"and the bones together, as these thy guests have done, (looking"in the mean time at those guests), for there is nothing before"them; but they are men that eat the flesh, and cast away the"bones, as I, who am also a man, have now done." Upon whichthe king admired at his answer, which was so wisely made; andbid them all make an acclamation, as a mark of their approba­tion of his jest, which was truly a facetious one. On the nextday Hyrcanus went to every one of the king's friends, andof the men powerful at court, and saluted them; but stillinquired of the servants what present they would make theking on his son's birth-day? and when some said that theywould give twelve talents, and that others of greater dignitywould every one give according to the quantity of their riches,he pretended to every one to be grieved that he was not able tobring so large a present; for that he had no more than five ta­lents. And when the servants heard what he said, they told theirmasters, and they rejoiced in the prospect that Joseph would bedisapproved, and would make the king angry, by the smallness ofhis present. When the day came, the others, even those thatbrought the most, offered the king not above twenty talents; butHyrcanus gave to every one of the hundred boys, and hundredmaidens that he had bought, a talent a-piece, for them to carry,and introduced them, the boys to the king, and the maidens toCleopatra: every body wondering at the unexpected richness ofthe presents, even the king and queen themselves. He also pre­sented those that attended about the king with gifts to the valueof a great number of talents, that he might escape the dangerhe was in from them; for to these it was that Hyrcanus'brethren had written to destroy him. Now Ptolemy admiredat the young man's magnanimity; and commanded him to askwhat gift he pleased. But he desired nothing else to be done forhim by the king than to write to his father and brethren abouthim. So when the king had paid him very great respects, andhad given him very large gifts, and had written to his fatherand his brethren, and all his commanders, and officers about him,he sent him away. But when his brethren heard that Hyrca­nus had received such favours from the king, and was return­ing home with great honour, they went out to meet him, andto destroy him, and that with the privity of their father: for hewas angry at him for the [large] sum of money that he bestowedfor presents, and so had no concern for his preservation.However, Joseph concealed the anger he had at his son, out offear of the king. And when Hyrcanus' brethren came to fighthim, he slew many others of those that were with them; as also