OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 125 with such haste and eagerness, that in order to comethe sooner to a close engagement, they threw awaytheir javelins, drew their swords, and rushed on. Onthe other side, the Romans poured down on them,sometimes javelins, and sometimes stones, which theplace abundantly supplied; so that the blows on theirshields and helmets, confusing even those whom theydid not wound, kept them from closing with their foe ;and they had no missive weapons with which to act ata distance. While they stood still exposed to blowsagainst which they had no sufficient defence, some evengiving way, and the line growing unsteady and wavering, the Roman spearmen and the first rank renewingthe shout, poured down on them with drawn swords.This attack the Etrurians could not withstand, butfacing ahout fled precipitately towards their camp ;when the Roman cavalry getting before them hy gal­loping obliquely across the plain, threw themselves inthe way of their flight, on which they quitted the road,and hent their course to the mountains. From thence,in a body, almost without arms, and debilitated withwounds, they made their way into the Ciminian forest.The Romans, having slain many thousands of theEtrurians, and taken thirty-eight military standards,took also possession of their camp, together with avast quantity of spoil. They then began to considerof pursuing the enemy. 36. The Ciminian forest was in those days deemedas impassable and frightful as the German forests havebeen in latter times ; not even any trader having everattempted to pass it. Hardly any, besides the generalhimself, showed boldness enough to enter it; so freshwas the remembrance of the disaster at Caudium inevery one's mind. On this, Marcus Fabius, the con­sul's brother, (some say Caeso, others Claudius, bornof the same mother with the consul,) undertook to ex­plore the country, and to bring them in a short timean account of every particular. Being educated atCaere, where he had friends, he was perfectly ac­quainted with the Etrurian language. I have seen it