OCR Output PREFACE. I now discharge my promise, and complete my design, ofwriting the History of the Decline and Fall of the RomanEmpire, both in the west and the east. The whole period ex­tends from the age of Trajan and the Antonines, to the takingof Constantinople by Mahomet II.; and includes a review ofthe crusades and the state of Rome during the middle ages.Since the publication of the first* volume, twelve years haveelapsed: twelve years, according to my wish, "of health, ofleisure, and of perseverance." I may now congratulate mydeliverance from a long and laborious service, and my satis­faction will be pure and perfect, if the public favour shouldbe extended to the conclusion of my work. It was my first intention to have collected, under one view,the numerous authors, of every age and language, from whomI have derived the materials of this history; and I am stillconvinced that the apparent ostentation would be more thancompensated by real use. If I have renounced this idea; ifI have declined an undertaking which had obtained the ap­probation of a master-artist,f my excuse may be found inthe extreme difficulty of assigning a proper measure to sucha catalogue. A naked list of names and editions would notbe satisfactory either to myself or my readers ; the charactersof the principal authors of the Roman and Byzantine Historyhave been occasionally connected with the events which theydescribe; a more copious and critical inquiry might indeeddeserve, but it would demand, an elaborate volume, whichmight swell by degrees into a general library of historicalwriters. For the present I shall content myself with renew­ing my serious protestation, that I have always endeavouredto draw from the fountain-head; that my curiosity, as wellas a sense of duty, has always urged me to study the origi­nals; and that, if they have sometimes eluded my search, I * Alluding to the tfaarto edition, in which size the work was originally published,t See Dr. Robertson's Preface to his History of America.VOL. v. b