OCR Output CHAP. XLIIIi] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. the Goths and Romans in the name of the emperor, whohad suspended for awhile the conquest of Persia, andlistened to the prayers of his Italian subjects. He gentlytouched on the causes and the authors of the recent dis­asters; striving to remove the fear of punishment forthe past, and the hope of impunity for the future, andlabouring, with more zeal than success, to unite all themembers of his government in a firm league of affectionand obedience. Justinian, his gracious master, was in­clined to pardon and reward; and it was their interest, aswell as duty, to reclaim their deluded brethren, who hadbeen seduced by the arts of the usurper. Not a man wastempted to desert the standard of the Gothic king. Be­lisarius soon discovered, that he was sent to remain theidle and impotent spectator of the glory of a young Bar­barian; and his own epistle exhibits a genuine and livelypicture of the distress of a noble mind.'—" Most excel­lent prince; we are arrived in Italy, destitute of all thenecessary implements of war, men, horses, arms, andmoney. In our late circuit through the villages ofThrace and Illyricum, we have collected, with extremedifficulty, about four thousand recruits, naked, and un­skilled in the use of weapons and the exercises of thecamp. The soldiers already stationed in the provinceare discontented, fearful, and dismayed; at the sound ofan enemy, they dismiss their horses, and cast their armson the ground. No taxes can be raised, since Italy is inthe hands of the barbarians; the failure of payment hasdeprived us of the right of command, or even of admo­nition. Be assured, dread sir, that the greater part ofyour troops have already deserted to the Goths. If thewar could be achieved by the presence of Belisariusalone, your wishes are satisfied; Belisarius is in the midstof Italy. But if you desire to conquer, far other prepa­rations are requisite: without a military force, the titleof general is an empty name. It would be expedient torestore to my service my own veterans and domestic t 2