OCR Output an. 1493.] 121 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. slew the sacrifices, and offered them as burntofferings, that he might observe some signalof the Sight of the Hebrews. Then said he,44 Happy is this people, on whom God be­stows the possession of innumerable goodthings; and grants them his own providenceto be their assistant and their guide: so thatthere is not any nation among mankind, butyou will be esteemed superior to them invirtue, and in the earnest prosecution of thebest rules of life, and of such as are pure fromwickedness; and will leave those rules toyour excellent children: and this out of theregard that God bears to you, and the pro­vision of such things for you as may renderyou happier than any other people under thesun. You shall retain that land to which hehath sent you, and it shall be ever under thecommand of your children; and both all theearth, as well as the sea, shall be filled withtheir glory. And you shall be sufficientlynumerous to supply the world in general, andevery region of it in particular, with inhabi­tants out of your stock. However, O blessedarmy! wonder that you are become so manyfrom one father! and truly the land of Canaancan now hold you, as being yet comparativelyfew. but know ye, that the whole world isproposed to be your place of habitation forever. Your posterity shall also live in theislands, as well as on the continent, and shallbe more numerous than the stars of heaven.And when you are become so many, God willnot relinquish his care of you, but will affordyou an abundance of all good things in timesof peace, with victory and dominion in timesof war. May the children of your enemieshave an inclination to fight against you, andmay they be so hardy as to come to arms,and to assault you in battle, for they will notreturn with victory, nor will their return beagreeable to their wives and children. To sogreat a degree of valour will you be raised bythe providence of God, who is able to dimi­nish the affluence of some, and to supply thewants of others." sacrifices to be prepared. The ancients were very super­stitious about certain numbers, supposing that God de­lighted in odd numbers. Terna tibi haec primum triplici diversa coloreLicia circumdo; terque haec altaria circumEffigiem duco; numero Deus impare gaudet. Virg. Eclog. viii. 73, Thus did Balaam speak by inspiration; asnot being in his own power, but moved tosay what he did by the Divine spirit. ButBalak was greatly displeased, and said, hehad broken the contract whereby he was tocome, as he and his confederates had invitedhim, by the promise of great presents. Forwhereas he came to curse their enemies, hehad pronounced an encomium on them; andhad declared they were the happiest of men.To which Balaam replied; "O Balak, if thourightly considerest this whole matter, canstthou suppose that it is in our power to besilent, or to say any thing, when the Spirit olGod seizes upon us? for he puts such wordsas he pleases in our mouths, and such dis­courses as we are not ourselves conscious of.I well remember by what entreaties both youand the Midianites brought me hither; and onthat account I took this journey. It was myprayer that I might not put any affront uponyou, as to what you desired of me. But Godis more powerful than the purposes I hadmade to serve you. For those that take uponthem to foretel the affairs of mankind, as fromtheir own abilities, are entirely unable to doit; or to forbear to utter what God suggeststo them, or to offer violence to his will. Forwhen he prevents us, and enters into us, no­thing that we say is our own. I then did notintend to praise this army, nor to notice theseveral good things which God intended todo to their race. But since he was so favour­able to them, and so ready to bestow uponthem a happy life, and eternal glory, he sug­gested the declaration of those things to me.But now, because it is my desire to obligethee thyself, as well as the Midianites, whoseentreaties it is not decent for me to reject;let us again rear other altars, and offer thelike sacrifices that we did before; and I maysee whether I can persuade God to permitme to bind these men with curses." Balakreadily agreed to this proposal; but Godwould not even upon* second sacrifices con­sent to his cursing the Israelites. Then fell Around his waxen image first I windThree woollen fillets, of three colours join'd;Thrice bind about his thrice devoted head,Which round the sacred altar thrice is led.Unequal numbers please the gods. Drvden. B. * Whether Josephus had in his copy but two attemptsof Balaam in all to curse Israel; or whether by his twice