OCR Output CHAP. LIT. 531 troops, on whom, at this moment, I shall not hesitate tobestow the name of Romans. In the double city ofMopsuestia, which is divided by the river Sarus, twohundred thousand Moslems were predestined to deathor slavery/ a surprising degree of population, whichmust at least include the inhabitants of the dependantdistricts. They were stirrotmded and taken by assault;but Tarsus was reduced by the slow progress of famine;and no sooner had the Saracens yielded on honourableterms, than they were mortified by the distant and un­profitable view of the naval succours of Egypt. Theywere dismissed with a safe conduct to the confinesof Syria: a part of the old Christians had quietly livedunder their] dominion, and the vacant habitations werereplenished by a new colony. But the mosch wasconverted into a stable; the pulpit was delivered tothe flames; many rich crosses of gold and gems, thespoils of Asiatic churches, were made a grateful of­fering to the piety or avarice of the emperor; and hetransported the gates of Mopsuestia and Tarsus, whichwere fixed in the wall of Constantinople, an eternal mo-invasion of nunient of his victory. After they had forcedSyria. an(j secured the narrow passes of mount Amanus,the two Roman princes repeatedly carried their armsinto the heart of Syria. Yet, instead of assaulting thewalls of Antioch, the humanity or superstition of Nice-phorus appeared to respect the ancient metropolis of theeast: he contented himself with drawing round the citya line of circumvallation; left a stationary army; andinstructed his lieutenant to expect, without impatience,the return of spring. But in the depth of winter, in adark and rainy night, an adventurous subaltern, withthree hundred soldiers, approached the rampart, applied "Ducenta fere mi Ilia hominum numerabat urbs (Abulfeda. Annal. Moslem, p.231.) ot'Mopsupstia, or Mafifa, Mampsysta, Mansista, Mamista, as it is corruptly,or perhaps more correctly, styled in the middle ages. (Wesseling.Itinerar. p. 580.)Yet I cannot credit this extreme populousness a few yean after the testimony of theemperor Leo, m> yap wo\wrx,iflia frfunu T»C KiXifi gafSijw; isnv. ^(Tactica, c. IS.in Meuraii Oper. torn. 6. p. 817.)