OCR Output an. 670.] 361 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. treachery, and ordered him to be broughtto him, and had him under his power to inflictwhat punishment he pleased upon him. ButManasseh perceiving what a miserable con­dition he was in, and esteeming himself thecause of all, besought God to render hisenemy humane and merciful to him. Accord­ingly God heard his prayer, and Manassehwas released by the king of Babylon, andescaped the danger he was in.* And whenhe was come to Jerusalem, he endeavoured,if it were possible, to cast out of his memoryhis former sins against God; of which he nowrepented; and to apply himself to a very re­ligious life. He sanctified the temple, andpurified the city; and for the remainder ofhis days he was intent on nothing but to re­turn thanks to God for his deliverance; andto preserve him propitious to him all his lifelong. He also instructed the multitude to dothe same; as having nearly experienced whata calamity he was fallen into by a contraryconduct. He also rebuilt the altar, andoffered the legal sacrifices, as Moses com­manded; and when he had re-establishedwhat concerned the divine worship, as itought to be, he took care of the security ofJerusalem. He did not only repair the oldwalls, with great diligence, but added anotherwall to the former, f He also built very loftytowers; and strengthened the garrisonedplaces before the city; supplying them with {)rovisions of all sorts. And indeed, whenie had changed his former course, he so ledhis life for the time to come, that from thetime of his return to piety towards God, hewas deemed a happy man, and a pattern forimitation. When therefore he had livedsixty-seven years, he departed this life;having reigned Jfifty-five years, and wasburied in his own gardens; and the kingdom came to his son HAmon, whose mother's namewas Meshulemeth, of the city Jotbath. CHAP. IV. OF THE REIGNS OF AMON AND JOSIAII, AND OF THE PRE­DICTIONS OF HULDAH THE PROPHETESS. AMON imitated those works of his fatherwhich he insolently did when he wasyoung. So a conspiracy was formed againsthim by his servants, and he was slain in hisown house, when he had lived twenty-fouryears, and reigned two. But the multitudepunished those that slew Amon, and buriedhim with his father, and gave the kingdom tohis son Josiah, who was eight years old.§His mother was of the city Boscath; and hername was Jedidah. He was of a most excel­lent disposition, and naturally virtuous, andfollowed the actions of king David, as a pat­tern, and a rule to him in the whole conductof his life. When he was only twelve yearsold, he gave demonstrations of his religiousand righteous behaviour; for he brought thepeople to a sober way of living, and exhortedthem to leave off the opinion they had oftheir idols; because they were not gods; butto worship their own God. And by reflectingon the actions of his progenitors, he prudentlycorrected what they did wrong, like a veryelderly man, and like one abundantly ableto understand what was fit to be done; andwhat he found they had well done, he ob­served all the country over, and imitated thesame. And thus he acted in following thewisdom and sagacity of his own nature, andin compliance with the advice and instruc­tion of the elders.** For by following thelaws it was that he succeeded so well in theorder of his government; and in piety withregard to the divine worship. And this hap­ * The Jewish doctors have a tradition, that while Ma­nasseh was at Babylon, by the direction of his conqueror,he was put in a large brazen vessel full of holes, and setnear to a great fire; that in this extremity, he had re­course to all his false deities, to whom he had offered somany sacrifices, but received no relief from them; thatremembering what he had heard hit good father Hezekiah•ay, viz. When thou art in tribulation, if thou turn to theLord thy God he will not forsake thee, neither destroythee, Deut. iv. 30, 31. he was thereupon immediately de­livered, and in a moment translated to his kingdom. Butthis is no less a fiction, than that miraculous flame whichthe author of the imperfect comment upon St. Matthewspeaks of, that encompassed him on a sudden, as he was praying to God, and having melted his chains asunder,set him at liberty. Vide Tradit. Hebr. in paralip Targumin 2 Chron. xxxiii. 11. In all probability, it was SaosDuchin, the successor of Esarhaddon, who some yearsafter bis captivity, released Manasseh out of prison. B. t 2 Chron. xxxiii. 14. % From an. 699 to an. 644. II The name of this king, in some copies of the Septua-gint, in Josephus here, and in one copy of the ApostolicalConstitutions, II. 23, 24. is not Amon, or Ammon, as inour Hebrew, or other copies, but Amos. § 2 Chron. xxxiv. 1. ** Perhaps the Sanhedrim.