OCR Output 334 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL1V. that he who touches the ear, touches the whole body;and that he who steals from a heap of corn, or a hogs­head of wine, is guilty of the entire theft.1"Authority. Arms, eloquence, and the study of the civil law, pro­moted a citizen to the honours of the Roman state ; andthe three professions were.sometimes more conspicuousby their union in the same character. In the composi­tion of the edict, a learned prastor gave a sanction andpreference to his private sentiments: the opinion of acensor, or a consul, was entertained with respect: anda doubtful interpretation of the laws might be support­ed by the virtues or triumphs of the civilian. The pa­trician arts were long protected by the veil of mystery;and in more enlightened times, the freedom of inquiryestablished the general principles of jurisprudence. Sub­tle and intricate cases were elucidated by the disputes ofthe Forum: rules, axioms,and definitions," were admittedas the genuine dictates of reason ; and the consent of thelegal professors was interwoven into the practice of thetribunals. But these interpreters could neither enactnor execute the laws of the republic; and the judgesmight disregard the authority of Scaevolas themselves,which was often overthrown by the eloquence or so­phistry of an ingenious pleader.° Augustus and Tibe­rius were the first to adopt, as a useful engine, thescience of the civilians; and their servile labours ac­commodated the old system to the spirit and views ofdespotism. Under the fair pretence of securing thedignity of the art, the privilege of subscribing legal andvalid opinions was confined to the sages of senatorian orequestrian rank, who had -been previously approved bythe judgment of the prince; and this monopoly prevail­ed, till Hadrian restored the freedom of the profession to m See Gravina, (p. 45—51.) and the ineffectual cavils of Mascou. Heineccins(Hist. J. R. no. 125.) quotes and approves a dissertation of Ever aid Otto, de StoicaJorisconsnltorom Philosophia. ° We have heard of the Catonian rule, the Aquilian stipulation, and the Manilianforms, of two hundred and eleven maxims, and of two hundred and forty-seven defi­nitions. (Pandect. Jib. 50. tit. 16,17.) ° Read Cicero, lib. 1. de. Oratore, Topica, pro Murena.