OCR Output 374 MOTYA. MOSTENI. mistiike as mil as w« ran. It is possible that bothrivers were called Mosn; and Mosella or M<»ula, asFloras has it, seems to be a diminutive of Mosa, butttmt reading i9 somewhat doubtful. (Floras, iii. 1U.cd. Dak.) There is no variation in Caesar's textin the passage where he speaks of the confluence ofthe Rhcnus and the Mosa. (Caesar, ed. Schneider.)Several of the affluents of the Mosel arc mentionedin the ancient writers, and chiefly by Ausonius: theSura (Sour), Pronaea (Prum), Neniesa (A'ims),(ielbis {Kill), Krubrus (Rurer), Lesura (Lrsrr),Drahonus (/>roiw), Saravus (Saar), and Salmona(.S'rt/m). The Mosella is celebrated in one of the longerpoems of Ausonius, who wrote in the 4th centuryA. u. The vine at that time clothed the slopes ofthe hills and the cliffs which bound this deep andpicturesque river valley in its course below Trier: "Qua sublimis apex lnngo super ardua tractu,Et rapes et aprica jugi, flexusque sinusqueVitibus adsurgunt naturalique theatro." (v. 154.) There is a German metrical translation of this poemby Hocking with note*. The Mottl rises on the western face of the Votgrt,and its upper course is in the hill country, formedby the offsets of the mountains. It then enters theplain of Lorraine, and after passing Tullum ( TouT),it is joined by the Mrurthe on the right bank.From the junction of the Meuriht it is navigable,and has a general north course past Divodurum(.Vete), and Thionritle, to Augusta Trevirorum(Trier or Treves). From Trier its general courseis about NNK. with many great bends, and in abed deep sunk below the adjacent country, to itsjunction with the Rhine at C'xMnu. The wholecourse of the river is somewhat less than 300 miles.It is navigable for steamboats in some seasons asfar as Mriz. A Roman governor in Gallia proposed to unitethe Mosella and the Arar (.Sonne) by a canal, andthus to effect a navigation from the Mediterraneanto the North Sea [Galua Traxsai.piha, Vol. I.p. 967.] TO. L.] MOSTE'NI (Moffrtirof), a town of Lydia in theHyrcanian plain, south-east of Thvatira, and on theroad between this latter town and Sardis. In A. D.17, Mosteni and many other towns of that countrywere visited by a fearful earthquake. (IVI. v. 2.§ 16; Tac. Ann. ii. 17 ; Hirrocl. p. 671, where itis erroneously called Moo-Mini or MdffTira; Concil.Chair, p. 240. where it bears the name Moi/o-r^rjj.)Its exact site is unknown. (Comp. Rasrhe. l*ex.Num. iii. 1. p. 869, &•■•.) [L. S.] MOSYCHLVS. [I.kmnos.] MOSVNOECI, MOS8YN0ECI, MOSYNI, MOS-SYNI (Moo-woiKoi, MotraiyoiKot, Mwrvvol, Motr-trwol), a tribe on the coast of Pontus, occupying thedistrict between the Tibarrni and Macrones, and con­taining the towns of Crrasis and Pharmacia.The Mnsynoeci were a brave and warlike people, butare at the same time said to have been the rudestand most uncivilised among all the tribes of AsiaMinor. Many of their peculiar customs are noticedby tho Greeks, »ho planted colonics in their districts.They are said to have lived on trees and in towers.(Strab. xii. p. 549.) Their kings, it is said, wereelected by the people, and dwelt in an isolated towerrising somewhat above the houses of his subjects,who watched his proceedings cli»<-ly, and providedhim with all that was necessary j but when he did anything that displeased them, tbey stoppedsupplies, and left him to die of starvation. (Xcav.A nab. v. 4, § 26; Apollon. Rliod. ii. 1027; Iliad.xiv. 30; Scymnus, h'ragm. 166.) They used tocut off the heads of the enemies tbey hail slain, andcarry them abont amid dames and songs. (Xa*.Anab. iv. 4. § 17; v. 4. § 15.) It is also rrtatadthat they knew nothing of marriage (Xen. An*t>.v. 4. § 33; Diod. I c), and that they generallytattooed their bodies. Eating and drinking wastheir greatest happiness, win nee the children of lb*wealthy among them were regularly fattened withsalt dolphins and chestnuts, until they were aa thickas they were tall (Xen. Anab. v. 4. § 32). Tbeirarms consisted of heavy spears, six cubits in length,with round or globular handles; large shields ofwicker-work covered with ox-hides ; and leather orwooden helmets, the top of which was adorned wita.a crest of hair. (Xen. /. ft, r. 4. § 12; Herod, vii.78.) The fourth chapter of the filth book of Xruo-phon's Anabasis is full of curious information aboutthis singular people. (Comp. also Strab. xi. p. 528;Hecat. Fragm. 193; Steph. B. 1. v.; Herod, iii. 94;Scylax, p. 33.; Amm. Marc. xxii. 8 ; Orph. Aryim.740; Mela, i. 19; Tibull. iv. I. 146; Curtius, vi.4, 17; Plin. vi.4; Val. Flacc. v. 152; Dionvs. Per.766.) [L. S.] MOTK'XE. [Crrant.] MOTYA (Morvn: Elk. Morvaibf: S.Pantnlco),a city on the W. coast of Sicily, between Drepanumand I.ilvbaeum. It was situated on a small i»hrJ,about three quarters of a mile (six stadia) from themainland, to which it was joined by an artificialcauseway. (Diod. xiv. 48.) It was orizinally acolony of the Phoenicians, who were fond of clink­ing similar sites, and probably in the first instancemerely a commercial station or emporium, but gra­dually rose to be a flourishing and important town.The Greeks, however, according to their custom,assigned it a legendary origin, and derived its niiMfrom a woman named Motya, whom they connectedwith the fables concerning Hercules. (Stops. B. » r.)It passed, in common with the other Phomkian set­tlements in Sicily, at a later period under the govern­ment or dependency of Carthage, whence Ihodornscalls it a Carthaginian colony; but it is probablethat this is not strictly correct. (Thuc. vi. J; \h-xi.xiv. 47.) As the Greek colonies in Sicily increasedin numbers and importance the Phoenicians rra-dually abandoned their settlements in the immediateneighbourhood of the new comers, and cndceritrstejthemselves in the three principal colonies of Sola*.Panormus, and Motya. (Thuc. L c.) The last ofthese, from its proximity to Carthage and its if-portune situation for communication with Africa, aawell as the natural strength of its position, herajreone of the chief strongholds of the Cartliacinians, aawell as one of the most importsnt of their owr>-mercial cities in the island. (Dual xiv. 47.) Ilappears to have held, in both these respects, thesame position which was attained at a Later prrwdby Lilybaenm. [I.ilydaktm.] Notwithstajviina;these accounts of its early importance and flourish­ing condition, the name of Motya is rarely mentionedin history until just before the period of its me­morable siege. It il first mentioned by Hecataeoe(np.Steph. B. $. v.), and Tliucydide* notion it anveigthe chief colonies of the Phoenicians in Sicily, whtcastill subsisted at the period of the Athenian expe­dition, n. r. 415. (Thur. vi. 2.) A few yean -Urr(n. c. 409) when the Carthaginian army under