OCR Output Chap. XIV. WARS OF THE JEWS. 307 5. Now on the next day, which was the seventh day of theweek, when the Jews were crowding apace to their synagogue,a certain man of Cesarea, of a seditious temper, got an earthenvessel, and set it with the bottom upward at the entrance of thatsynagogue, and sacrificed birds *. This thing provoked theJews to an incurable degree, because their laws were affronted,and the place was polluted. Whereupon the sober and moder­ate part of the Jews thought it proper to have recourse to theirgovernors again, while the seditious part, and such as were inthe fervour of their youth, were vehemently inflamed to fight.The seditious also among the [Gentiles of] Cesarea stood readyfor the same purpose; for they had, by agreement, sent theman to sacrifice beforehand, [as ready to support him;] so thatit soon came to blows. Hereupon Jucundus, the master of thehorse, who was ordered to prevent the fight, came'thither, andtook away the earthen vessel, and endeavoured to put a stop tothe sedition; but when he was overcome by the violence of thepeople of Cesarea, the Jews 'caught up their books of the law,and retired to Narbata, which was a place to them belonging,distant from Cesarea sixty furlongs. But John, and twelve ofthe principal men with him, went toFIorus, to Sebaste, and madea lamentable complaint of their case, and besought him to helpthem; and with all possible decency, put him in mind of theeight talents they had given him; but he had the men seizedupon, and put in prison, and accused them for carrying thebooks of the law out of Cesarea. 6. Moreover, as to the citizens of Jerusalem, although they tookthis matter very ill, yet did theyrestraintheirpassionj but Florusacted herein as it he had been lured, and blew up the war into aflame, and sent sometotake seventeen talentsoutof the sacred trea­sure, and pretended that Caesar wanted them. A t this the peeplewere in confusion immediately, and ran together to the temple,with prodigious clamours, and called upon Caesar by name, andbesought him to free them from the tyranny of Florus. Somealso of the seditious cried.out upon F.lorus, and cast the great­est reproaches upon him, and carried a basket about, and beggedsome spills of money for him, as for'one that was destitute ofpossessions, and in a miserable condition. Yet was not he madeashamed hereby of his love of money, but was more enraged,and provoked to get still more; and instead of coming to Ce­sarea, * Take hen Dr Hudson's very pertinent note. " By this action, sayi he, the!' killing of a bird over an earthen vessel, the Jews were exposed as a leprous peor" pie; for that was to be done by the law in the cleansing of a leper, (Levit. ch." xiv.) It is a'•o known that the Gentiles reproached the Jews as nibject to the" leprosy, and belfeted that they were driven out of Egypt on that account. Thi»" that eminent person Mt Reland suggested to me."