OCR Output 188 THE PELOPONKESTAN WAR. his naval conduct, ordering him to get ready for a more suc­cessful engagement, and not to leave the dominion of the seato such a small number of ships. For their late defeat ap­peared to them quite unaccountable, especially as this wasthe first trial they had of an engagement at sea; nor couldthey think it so much owing to a want of skill in naval affairs,as to a want of courage, never balancing the long experienceof the Athenians with their own short application to thesematters. These persons therefore they sent away in anger,who, coming to Cnemus^ issued their circular orders to thestates for new quotas of shipping, and refitted what was al­ready there for another engagement. Phormio also sendsmessengers to Athens with an account of these preparations,and to report the victory they had already gained ; request­ing a further reinforcement of as many ships as they couldexpeditiously dispatch, since he was in daily expectation ofanother fight. Twenty ships were the number they agfee to send him,but they ordered him who was to carry them to touch by theway at Crete. For Nicias a Cretan of Gortys, a publicfriend of the Athenians, had persuaded them to appear be­fore Cydonia, assuring them that this place, which had beenan enemy to them, should soon be their own. This he in­sinuated merely to gratify the Polychnitae, who borderedupon the Cydonians. The commander therefore with theseships went to Crete, and joining the Polvchnita?, ravaged theterritory of the Cydonians ; by which, together with adversewinds and weather unfit for sea, no little time was unseasona­bly wasted away. The Peloponnesians at Cyllene, (lining the time that theAthenians lay weather-bound in Crete, having got everything in readiness for another engagement, sailed along thecoast of Panormus of Achaia, where the land-forces of thePeloponnesians were come to forward their attempts. Phor­mio likewise, with the twenty ships which had fought theformer battle, sailed up to cape Molychrium, and lay at an­