OCR Output 70 [book u. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS- on all occasions, promising to be with him,and to assist him in his words when he was topersuade men, and in his deeds when he waslo perform wonders. He bid him also takea signal of the truth of what he said, bythrowing his rod* upon the ground; whichwhen he had done, it crept along; and be­came a serpent,f and rolled itself round in itsfolds, and erected its head, as ready to re­venge itself on such as should assault it, andafterwards it became a rod again, as it wasbefore. After this God bid Moses put his righthand into his bosom; be obeyed, and whenhe took it out it was white, and in colour liketo chalk, but afterward it returned to itswonted colour again. He also, upon God'scommand, took some of the water that wasnear him, and poured it upon the ground, andsaw the colour was that of blood. Upon thesurprise that Moses testified at these signs,God exhorted him to be of good courage, andto be assured that he would be the greatestsupport to him, and bid him make use of thosesigns in order to obtain belief among all men,and to demonstrate that he did all things ac­cording to the Divine commands. Accord­ingly he was enjoined to make no more de­lays, but to hasten to Egypt, and to travelnight and day, and not to draw out the time:and so make the slavery of the Hebrews, andtheir sufferings, to last no longer. Moses, having seen and heard these won­ders, that assured him of the truth of God's■ promises, had no room left him to disbelievethem; so he intreated him to grant him thatpower when he should be in Egypt, and be­sought him, since he had heard and seen him,that he would also tell him his name, andwhen he offered sacrifice he might invoke himby such name in his oblations. HereuponGod declared to him that name which hadnever been discovered to men before, con­cerning which it is not lawfulJ for me to sayany more. Now these signs accompaniedMoses, not then only, but always when heprayed for them; of all which signs he attri­buted the firmest assent to the fire in thebush; and believing that God would be agracious supporter to him, he hoped he shouldbe able to deliver his own nation, and bringcalamities on the Egyptians. CHAP. XIII. OF THE RETURN OF MOSES AND AARON INTO EGYPT, TOPHARAOH. MOSES having understood that Pharaoh,in whose reign he fled away, was dead,asked leave of Raguel to go to Egypt, for thebenefit of his own people; and he took withhim Zipporah. the daughter of Raguel, whomhe had married, and the children he had byher, Gersom and Eleazar, and hastened intoEgypt. Now the former of those names, Ger­som, in the Hebrew tongue signifies that hewas in a strange land: and Eleazar, that by * Wonderful are the stories which the Hebrew doctorstell us of this rod, viz. That it originally grew in Paradise,was brought away by Adnm, from him passed to Noah,and so through a succession of patriarchs, till it came to betransplanted into Jethro's garden, and there took rootagain, God knows how; that it was called Zaphir, (whenceZiphorah his daughter had her name) and had the Tetra-grammaton written upon it; that when Ziphorah fell inlove with Moses, her father consented that she shouldnave him if he could pluck up this Zaphir-rod, at the sametime published a proclamation, that whoever did it firstshould marry his daughter; that hereupon several lustyyoung men came, and tried their strength in vain; but thatMoses, by being acquainted with the true pronunciation ofthe name of God, in virtue thereof did it with ease, andso not only obtained his daughter, but this rod into the bar­gain, with which he wrought afterwards all his wonders inEgypt. But how fictitious soever all this may be, it iscertain that in Exod. iv. 20. this staff is called the rod ofGod; and that partly because it was appropriated to God'sspecial service, to be the instrument of all his gloriousworks; and partly to shew that whatever was done by thatrod was not done by any virtue in it, or in the hand of Moses, but merely by the power of God, who was pleased,for the greater confusion of his enemies, to use so mean aninstrument. Nor is it an improbable conjecture, that thewands which great ministers are wont to carry in theirhands, in token of their power and office, were originallyderived from this of Moses. Universal Hut. 1. c. 7; andPool's Annot. B. t Exod. iv. 8. I This superstitious fear of discovering the name withfour letters, which of late have been used falsely to pro­nounce Jehovah, but-seems to have been originally pro­nounced Jahoh, or Jao, is never, I think, heard of till thispassage of Josephus: and this superstition, in not pro­nouncing that name, is continued among the RabbinicalJews to this day; though whether the Samaritans andCanutes observed it so early does not appear. Josephusalso durst not set down the very words of the Ten Com­mandments, as we shall see hereafter, III. 5. which super­stitious silence, I think, has yet not been continued evenby the Rabbins. Both these cautious concealments,'bow-ever, were probably taught Josephus by the Pharisees, abody of men at once very wicked and very superstitious