OCR Output A. D. 16.] 91 OF TACITUS. proud of their exploits, and in their late success losingthe memory of past misfortunes. The prince, withthat munificence that graced his character, paid toeach soldier the amount of his loss. Meanwhile theGermans, weakened and disheartened by the ill suc­cess of so many efforts, began to think of pacific mea­sures; nor was it doubted but another summer, ifthey dared to take the field, would complete and endthe war. But Tiberius wished for nothing so muchas the return of Germanicus. His letters were all tothat effect. " It was time," he said, " to visit the" capital, and enjoy the honours of a triumph alreadydecreed. Enough had been performed. The pros-" perous events of war were balanced by misfortunes." Important battles had been fought, and victory had" often attended the Roman arms; but the winds and" waves conspired; and losses at sea, not indeed im-" putable to the general, were very heavy disasters.» Tiberius added, that he himself, under the auspicesw of Augustus, had been sent nine times into Germa-wny; but it was to prudent counsels, more than to * force of arms, that he owed all his success. It was * by policy that the Sicambrians were wrought to a * submission; it was by management that the Sue- * vians were drawn into an alliance with Rome; and* * it was the same conduct that made Maroboduusu listen to terms of peace. The honour of the Roman" name was now revived in all its ancient lustre; and" it was therefore time to leave the Cheruscans, and" the hostile states of Germany, to their own dissen-" sions." Germanicus, notwithstanding these remonstrances^requested leave to continue in the command for oneyear more. Tiberius was not to be diverted from hispurpose. He plied Germanicus with new arguments,and, as a lure to young ambition, threw out the offerof a second consulship, which required personal at­tendance at Rome. He urged, moreover, that if thewar continued, some share of merit ought to be leftto Drusus, the brother of Germanicus, for whom noother field of glory could be found. It was in Germa­ny only that Drusus could acquire the title of Imps­