OCR Output Chap. XIII.] LITERATURE AND ART. 475 pear, arranged in the order of matters.* A strictly sys­tematic treatment of the law of the land soon followed. Itsfounder was the pontifex maximus Quintus Mucius Scaevola(consul in 650, + 672, P. 219, 336, 432), in whose family 95. 82.jurisprudence was, like the supreme priesthood, hereditary.His eighteen books on the Jus Civile, which embracedthe positive materials of jurisprudence—legislative enact­ments, judicial precedents, and authorities—partly from theolder collections, partly from oral tradition in as great com­pleteness as possible, formed the starting-point and themodel of the complete systems of Roman law; in like man­ner his compendious treatise of " Definitions" (opoi) be­came the basis of juristic summaries and particularly ofthe books of Rules. Although this development of lawproceeded of course in the main independently of Hel­lenism, yet an acquaintance with the philosophico-practicalsystematizing of the Greeks beyond doubt gave a generalimpulse to the more systematic treatment of jurisprudence,as in fact the Greek influence is in the case of the last-mentioned treatise apparent in the very title. We havealready remarked that in several more external mattersRoman jurisprudence was influenced by the Stoa (P. 432). Art exhibits still less pleasing results. In architecture, Art.sculpture, and painting there was, no doubt, a more andmore general diffusion of a dilettante interest, but theexercise of native art retrograded rather than advanced.It became more and more customary for those sojourningin Grecian lands personally to inspect the works of art; forwhich in particular the winter-quarters of Sulla's army inAsia Minor in 670—671 formed an epoch. Connoisseur- 84-83.ship developed itself also in Italy. They had commenced witharticles in silver and bronze; about the commencement ofthis epoch they began to esteem not merely Greek statues,but also Greek pictures. The first picture publicly exhi­bited in Rome was the Bacchus of Aristides, which LuciusMummius withdrew from the sale of the Corinthian spoil,because king Attalus offered as much as 6000 denarii (£246)for it. The buildings became more splendid; and in parti­cular transmarine, especially Hymettian, marble (Cipollin) * Cato's book probably bore the title De Juris Disciplina (Gell. jciii. 20),that of Brutus the title De Jure Civili (Cic. pro Cluent. 51, 141; Be Orat.ii. 55, 223); that they were essentially collections of opinions, is shown byCicero (De Orat. ii. 33, 142).