OCR Output MARCIUAXA. 271 MARCOMANNI. Fritigern and the Roman governor of Marcianopolis,Lapicimu, — which became the signal of a longand destructive war. (Amni. Marc xxxi. 5. § 4,Zoaim. iv. 10,11.) Marcianopolis afterwards became1'eristhlsva or Presthlava (Yl<ptaQ\&6a), the capitalat' the Bulgarian kingdom, which was taken a. d.971 by Swiatoslaff the Russian, and again reduced jby John Zimisces, when 8500 Russians were put tothe sword, and the sons of the Bulgarian kingrescued from an ignominious prison, and invested witha nominal diadem. (Gibbon, c, Iv.; Sehafarik, Slav.Alt vol. ii. pp. 187, foil. 216; Finlay, ByzantineEmpire, pp. 408—413.) The site of the ancienttown must be sought for in the neighbourhood nfPra-radt. For coins of Marcianopolis, both autonomousand imperial, see Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 15. [E. B. J.J MAKCILIA'N'A, a station on the ViaPopillia, inLocania, where, according to the Tabula, that road(which led directly S. from Campania into Brut-liom) was joined by a branch from Potentia. Thenine is corrupted both in the Tabula and in theAiitocine Itinerary; but there can be no doubt thatthe place meant is the same called by Cassiodorus* Narcilianam," which was a kind of suburb of thetown of Consilinum, where a great fair was annuallyheld. (ftm. Ant. p. 110; Tab. Pent; Cassiod. Varr.TiiL 33.) The site is still called Marciliana, in therailev of the Tanagro, between La Sala and Padula.(Bamanelli, voL i. p. 405.) [E. H. B.] MARCI'XA (MapKtva), a town of Campania, inthe district of the Picentini, situated on the N. shoreof the gulf of Posidonia, between the Sireuusae In­take and the mouth of the :>ilarus. (Strab.v. p. 231.)It a mentioned by no writer except Strabo, wlio tellsus that it was a colony founded by the Tyrrhenians,but subsequently occupied, and in his day still in­habited, by the Samuites. As he adds that the dis­tance from thence through Nuceria to Pompeii wasnot more than 120 stadia (15 Roman miles), heappears to have regarded this as the point fromwhence the passage of the isthmus (as he calls it)between the two bays began; and it may thereforebe placed with some plausibility at Vietri. (Cluver,ItaL p. 1190; Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 614.) Some an-cient remains have been discovered thero, thoughthese may seem to indicate the site of Roman villasnther than of a town. [K. 11. It. J MATJCIUS MONS (to MdpKiov &pos) was, ac­cording to Plutarch, the name of the place which*» the scene of a great defeat of the Volscians andL«mj bv Camilla? in the year after the taking ofSome by the Gauls B.C. 389. (Plut. Camili 33,34.) Diodornj, who calls it simply Marcius orMareinm (to KaXovpevov VldpKtov, xiv. 107), tellsas it was 200 stadia from Some; and Livy, who»ri>s the name ** ad Mecium," says it was nearLvnvium. (Lit. vi. 2.) The exact site cannot bed*i#mtined. Some of the older topographers speak•f * hill called Coile Marzo, but no such place isMm:l<m modern maps; and Gell suggests the ColleH Dae Torri as the jnost probable localitv. (Gell,*«/>. o/A«w, p. 311.) [E.H. B.] MARCODAVA (Mapwd'oW, Ptol. iii. 8. § 7), atown of D-wia, the remains erf which have been foundW Thorda. (S"*tini, Yiaggio, p. 105.) [E.B.J.JMARCODU'RUM, in North Gallia. Some of thecourts rf the Ulm were cut to pieces by the troopsof Cmfis at Marcodurum, which as Tacitus observes{Hut. it. 28) is a long way from the bank of the&ut*. The termination durum indicates a place on* river; rod Marcodurum seems to be Uuren on the Roei\ The Frank kings are said to have had apalace there, named Duria Villa or Dura. [G. L.] MARCOMAGUS, a place in North Gallia on aroad from Augusta Trevirorurn (Treves) to Agrip-pina Civitas (Cologne*). It appears both in the Anto-nine ltin. and in the T;ible. Marcomagus is Mar-niagen. It is 28 or 31 M. P. from Cologne, fur thenumbers are not certain. [G. L.] MARCOMANNI (MapKOfi&vvoi, MapKOfi(j.&voiyor MapKOfiauoi), a name frequently occurring in theancient history of Germany, sometimes as a mereappellative, and sometimes as a proper name of adistinct nation. Its meaning is border-men ormarch-men, and as such it might be applied to anytribe or tribes inhabiting and defending a bordercountry. Hence we must be prepared to find Mar-comanni both on the western and southern frontiersof Germany; and they might also have existed in theeast, or on any other frontier. Marcomanni are firstmentioned in history among the tribes with whichAriovistus had invaded Gaul, and which weredefeated and driven back across the Rhine byJ. Caesar, b. c. 58 (Caes. Bell. Gall i. 51). TheseMarcomanni, therefore, appear to have been themafchmen on the Rhenish frontier, perhaps aboutthe lower part of the Main. They are againmentioned during the campaigns of Drusus inGermany, from b. c 12 to 9, by Floras (iv. 12),who seems to place them somewhat further in theinterior. Only a few years later, we hear of apowerful Marcomannian kingdom in Boiohemum orBohemia, governed by Maroboduus; and we mightbe inclined to regard these Marcomanni as quite adifferent people from those on the Rhine and Main,—that is, as the marchinen on the southern frontier,—were it not that we are expressly told by Tacitus(Germ. 42), Paterculus (ii. 108), and Strabo (vii.p. 290), that their king Maroboduus had emigratedwith them from the west, and that, after expellingthe Celtic Boh from Bohemia, he established himselfand his Marcomanni in that country. (Comp.Ptol. ii. 11. § 25.) If we remember that thekingdom of the Marcomanni in Bohemia was fullyorganised as early as A. i>. 6, when Tiberius waspreparing for an expedition against it, it must boowned that Maroboduus, whose work it was, musthave been a man of unusual ability and energy.Henceforth the name of the Marcomanni appears inhistory as a national name, though ethnologically itwas not peculiar to any particular tribe, but wasgiven to all the different tribes which the Marcoman­nian conqueror had united under his rule. Theneighbouring nations whom it was impossible tosubdue were secured by treaties, and thus wasformed what may be termed the great Marconiannicconfedcracy, the object of which was to defendGermany aeainst the Romans in Pannonia. But theMarcomanni soon also came into collision withanother German confederation, that of the Cherasci,who regarded the powerful empire of Maroboduus asnot less dangerous to the liberty of the Germantribes than the aggressive policy of the Romans. Inthe ensuing contest, A. d. 17. the Marcomanni werehumbled by the Cherasci and their allies, and Maro-bodu'js implored the assistance of the emperorTiberius. The aid was refused, but Drusus wassent to mediate p?ace between the hostile powers.(Tac. Ann. ii. 45, 46.) During this mediation,however, the Romans seem to have stirred up otherenemies against the Marcomanni; for two years laler,A. v. 19, Catualda, a young chief of the Goth ones,