OCR Output 266 ROMAN EMPIRE. preferred to the simple, though important, office of com­posing disputes by their advice, and guiding valour bytheir example. Even a female of sense and spirit hasbeen permitted to command the countrymen of Zenobia.bThe momentary junction of several tribes produces anarmy; their more lasting union constitutes a nation;and the supreme chief, the emir of emirs, whose ban­ner is displayed at their head, may deserve, in the eyesof strangers, the honours of the kingly name. If theArabian princes abuse their power, they are quicklypunished by the desertion of their subjects, who hadbeen accustomed to a mild and parental jurisdiction.Their spirit is free, their steps are unconfined, the desertis open, and the tribes and families are held togetherby a mutual and voluntary compact. The softer nativesof Yemen supported the pomp and majesty of a mo­narch; but if he could not leave his palace withoutendangering his life,1 the active powers of governmentmust have been devolved on his nobles and magistrates.The cities of Mecca and Medina present, in the heartof Asia, the form, or rather the substance, of a common­wealth. The grandfather of Mahomet, and his linealancestors, appear in foreign and domestic transactions asthe princes of their country; but they reigned, like Pe­ricles at Athens, or the Medici at Florence, by the opi­nion of their wisdom and integrity; their influence wasdivided with their patrimony; and the sceptre was trans­ferred from the uncles of the prophet to a younger branchof the tribe of Koreish. On solemn occasions they con­vened the assembly of the people; and since mankindmust be either compelled or persuaded to obey, the useand reputation of oratory among the ancient Arabs is the h Saraceni .... mulieres auint in eos regnare. (Expositio totius Mundi, p. 3.in Hudson, torn. 3.) The reign of Mavia is famous in ecclesiastical story. Focock,Specimen, p. 693 83. 1 Mn fgnui ex rm (WiXtiOT, is the report of Agatharades, (de Man Bubro, p. 63,64. in Hudson, torn. l.)DiodorusSiculus, (torn. 1. lib. 3. c. 47. p. 215.) and Strabo.(lib. 16. p. 1124.) But 1 much suspect that this is one of the popular tales, or ex­traordinary accidents, which the credulity of travellers so often transforms into afact, a custom, and a law.