OCR Output MM LLCANIA. LOTUM. saffron colour and sweetish taste (Herodotus likensits taste to that of tbe date). It must not be con­founded with the celebrated Egyptian lotus, orwater-lily of the Nile, which was also used for food.(There were, in fact, several plants of the name,which are carefully distinguished by Liddell andand Scott, Gr. Lex. t. v.) The ancient geographers differ as to the extentof coast which they assign to the Lotophagi. Theirchief seat was around the Lesser Syrtis, and east­ward indefinitely towards the Great Syrtis; but Melacarries them into Cyrenaica. They are also placedin the large Island of Mk.m.nx or Lotophagitis, E. ofthe Lesser Syrtis. (Horn. Herod. U. cc; Xen.A nab. iu. 2. §25: Scylax. p. 47; Mela, i. 7. § 5;Plin. T. 4. a. 4: Si. lii. 310; Hygin. Fab. 125;Shaw; Delia Cclla; Barth; Hecren, Idem, vol. ii.p'. 1. p. 54: Bitter, Erdbmde, vol i. p. 989.) [P.S.] LOTUM, in Gallia, is placed by the AntonincIiin. on a mad from Juliobona (LUlebonne) toBotomagus (Rouen). It is vi. leagues from Julio­bona to Lotum, and xiii. from Lotum to Kotomagus.The actual distances seem to fix Lotum at or near(.'audebec, which is on the north bank of the Seinebetween LUIebtmne and Jtouen. [G. L.] LOXA, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3)as a river on the western coast of Scotland, north ofthe Vara (Oi/dpa) aettuary, i. e. the Murray Firth.Identified in the Monumcnta Britannica with theJjoth in Sutherland; the Lossie. and CromartyFirth. [It. G. L.] LUANCL [Gai.laf.cia.] LUBAKXI. [Gai.laf.cia.] LUCA (AoCita, Strab., Pud.: F.Ui. Lucensis:Jmcco), a city of Ktruria, situated in a plain at thefoot of the Apennines, near the left bank of theAusar (Serchio) about 12 miles from the sea, ami10 NE. of Pisae. Though Luca was included withinthe limits of Etruria, as these were established inthe time of Augustus (Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; PtoL iii. 1.§47), it is very doubtful whether it was ever anEtruscan town. No mention of it is found as such,and no Etruscan remains have been discovered in itsrcighbourhood. But it is probable that the Etrus­cans at one time extended their power over the levelcountry at the foot of the Apennines, from theArnus to the Macra, leaving the Ligurians in pos­session only of the mountains, — and at this period,therefore, Luca was probably subject to them. Ata later period, however, it bad certainly fallen intothe hands of the Ligurians, and being retaken fromthem by the Komans, seems to have been commonlyconsidered (until the reign of Augustus) a Liguriantown. For this reA&on we find it comprised withinthe province assigned to Caesar, which includedLiguria as well as Cisalpine Gaul. (Suet. Caet. 24.)The first mention of Luca in history is in n. c. 218,when Livy tells us that the consul Semproniusretired there after his unsuccessful contest withHannibal. (Liv. xxi. 59.) It was, therefore, at thisperiod certainly in the hands of the Komans, thoughit would seem to have subsequently fallen again intothose of the Ligurians; but it is strange that duringthe long protracted wars of the Romans with thatjssiple, v,e meet with no mention of Luca, though itmust have been of importance as a frontier town,especially in their wars with the Apuani. Thenext notice of it ii that of the establishment thereof a Koman colony in ». c. 177. (Veil. Pat. i. 15;Liv. xli. 13.) There is, indeed, some difficulty withregard to this; the MSS. and editions of Livy vary between Luca and Luna; but there is no such dis­crepancy in those of Velleiua, and there Mean atleast no reason to doubt the settlement of a Ijitimcolony at Luci; while that mentioned in Livy beine,a "colonia civium," may, perhaps, with more pro­bability, be referred to Luna. (Madvig, de Colon.p. 287; Xumpt, de Colon, p. 349 ) That at Lucabecame, in common with the other I*atin colonies, amunicipal town by virtue of the Lex Julia (B-C.4S),and hence is termed by Cicero "municipium La-cense." (Cic. arlFam. xiii. 13.) It appears to havelieen at this time a considerable town, as we find itr.;ieatcdly selected by Caesar during his adminis­tration of Gaul as the frontier town of his province,to which he repaired in order to consult with nilfriends, or with the leaders of political partita atRome. (Suet. Caet. 24; Plut. Caet. 21, Cram. 14,l'omp. 51; Cic. «</ Fam. i. 9. § 9). On one ofthese occasions (in n. c 56) there are said to havebeen more than 200 senators assembled at Lura,including Pompey and Crasaus, as well as Caoarhimself. (Plut./. c.; Appian, B.C. il 17.) Lucawould seem to have received a fresh colony ben*ethe time of Pliny, probably under Augusta*. (Plin.iii. 5. & 8; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 349.) We hearlittle of it under the Koman Empire; but it seem*to have continued to be a provincial town of sou*consideration: it was the point where the ViaClodia, proceeding from Home by Amrlium, Fio-rentia, and Pistoria, was met by other rvads frontParma and Pisae. (Plin. L e.; PtoL iii. 1. §47;Itin. Ant. pp. 28.1, 284, 289; Tab. J'euL) Duringthe Gothic wars of Narscs. Luca figures as an in>jiorlant city and a strong fortress (Araih. B. ij.i. 15.), but it was not till after tbe fail of theLombard monarchy that it attained to the degree ofprosperity and importance that we find it enjoyjar.during the middle ages. Lucca is still a flou­rishing city, with 25,000 inhabitants: the onlyrelic* of antiquity visible there are those of an am­phitheatre, considerable part of which maj still 1*traced, now converted into a market-place tail's)the Piazza del Mrrcato, and some small remains ofa theatre near the church of Sta. Maria aW CorteLandini. [E. II. B.] LUCA'NUS, a river of Bruttinm. [Bbcttu,p. 450, Ii. J 1.1 CA'.VI A (Aroxayfo, Strab. Tbe name of thepeoplo is written Atvitavoi by Strabo and 1'olybius,but Ptolemy has Aovkovo'i, and this is found also oncoins), a province or district of Southern Italy, ex­tending across from the Tyrrhenian sea to the gulfof Tamitum, and bounded by the Bruttians on the S,by Samnium and Apulia on the N., and by Cam­pania, or the district of the Piccnlini. on the XW.Its more precise limits, which are fixed with un­usual unanimity by the geographers, were, the r.tevSilarus on the NW.; the Bradauus, which Howi leiothe gulf of Tarentum, just beyond Mctapontum.on the NE.; while the mouths of the LaiU and theCrathis marked its frontiers towards the Bruttianson the two sides of the peninsula. (Strab. vipp. 252, 253, 255; Plin. iu. 5. a. 10, 11. a. 15;Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 8, 9.) Its northern fruntxr. Crowthe sources of the Silarus to those of the lira.Ux.-j-.must have been an arbitrary line; but nearly fal­lowing the main ridge of the Apennines ia this partof ita course. It thus comprised the modern pro­vince of the Baiilicata, together with the (creatorpart of tbe I'rineipato Citeriort and the exrretcenorthern portion of Calabria.