OCR Output 502 DISSERTATION II. thought that Jeptha had made such a vow, and executed it,he is so far from hinting at its heing done in compliance withany law of God, that he expressly condemns him for it, ashaving acted contrary thereto; or, in his own words, "' ashaving offered an oblation neither conformable to the law,nor acceptable to God, nor weighing with himself what opinionthe hearers would have of such a practice." 7. That Isaac being at this time, according to Josephus,2who is herein justly followed by Archbp. Usher,^ no less thantwenty-five years of age, and Abraham being, by consequence,one hundred and twenty-five, it is not to be supposed thatAbraham could bind Isaac, in order to offer him in sacrifice,but by his own free consent; which free consent of the partywho is to suffer seems absolutely necessary in all such cases ;and which free consent St. Clement, as well as Josephus,distinctly takes notice of on this occasion. St. Clement des­cribes it thus :— "4 Isaac, being fully persuaded of what heknew was to come, cheerfully yielded himself up for a sacri­fice." And for Josephus,5 after introducing Abraham in apathetic speech, laying before Isaac the divine command, andexhorting him patiently and joyfully to submit to it, he tellsus, that "Isaac very cheerfully consented;" and then intro­duces him, in a short but very pious answer, acquiescing inthe proposal; and adds, that " he then immediately andreadily went to the altar to be sacrificed." Nor did Jephtha6perform his rash vow, whatever it were, till his daughter hadgiven her consent to it. 8. It appears to me that Abraham never despaired entirelyof the interposition of Providence for the preservation ofIsaac, although in obedience to the command he prepared tosacrifice him to God. This seems to me intimated in Abra­ham's words to his servants, on the third day, when he wasin sight of the mountain on which he was to offer his sonIsaac: "? We will go and worship, and we will come againto you." As also in his answer to his son, when he inquired, 1 Antiq. B. v. chap. vii. sect. 10. • Antiq. B. I. ehap. liii. » Ush. Annal, ad. A. M. 21. « Clem. sect. 31. 6 Antiq. B. I. ch. liii. sect. 3. • Judges, xi. 30, 37. ' Gen. xxii. 6, 7.