OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL Toleration ofthe Jewish of heaven with the empire of the earth. It was by announcinghimself as their long-expected deliverer, and by calling on all the de­scendants of Abraham to assert the hope of Israel, that the famousBarchochebas collected a formidable army, with which he resistedduring two years the power of the Emperor Hadrian '. Notwithstanding these repeated provocations, the resentment ofreligion. the Roman Princes expired after the victory; nor were their appre­hensions continued beyond the period of war and danger. By thegeneral indulgence of polytheism, and by the mild temper of Anto­ninus Pius, the Jews were restored to their ancient privileges, andonce more obtained the permission of circumcising their children,with the easy restraint, that they should never confer on any foreignproselyte that distinguishing mark of the Hebrew race *. The nume­rous remains of that people, though they were still excluded fromthe precincts of Jerusalem, were permitted to form and to maintainconsiderable establishments both in Italy and in the provinces, toacquire the freedom of Rome, to enjoy municipal honours, and toobtain at the fame time an exemption from the burdensome andexpensive offices of society. The moderation or the contempt of theRomans gave a legal sanction to the form of ecclesiastical policywhich was instituted by the vanquished sect. The patriarch, whohad fixed his residence at Tiberias, was empowered to appoint hissubordinate ministers and apostles, to exercise a domestic jurisdiction*and to receive from his dispersed brethren an annual contributionNew synagogues were frequently erected in the principal cities ofthe Empire; and the sabbaths, the fasts, and the festivals, whichwere either commanded by the Mosaic law, or enjoined by the tra­ditions of the Rabbis, were celebrated in the most solemn and publicmanner6. Such gentle treatment insensibly asswaged the stern"temper of the Jews. Awakening from their dream of prophecy andconquest, they assumed the behaviour of peaceable and industrioussubjects. Their irreconcilable hatred of mankind, instead of fla­ming out in acts of blood and violence, evaporated in less dangerous gratifications. 3