OCR Output 444 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. And this was the speech which Judas madeto encourage them. But when the enemysent Gorgias, with five thousand foot, and onethousand horse, that he might fall upon Judasby night; and had for that purpose, certainof the runagate Jews as guides; the son ofMattathias perceived it, and resolved to fallupon those enemies that were in their camp,now their forces were divided. When theyhad therefore supped in good time, and hadleft many fires in their camp, he marched allnight to those enemies that were at Emmaus.So that when Gorgias found no enemy intheir camp, but suspected they were retired,and had hidden themselves among the moun­tains, he resolved to go and seek them, where­soever they were. But about break of dayJudas appeared to those enemies that wereat Emmaus, with only three thousand men,and those ill armed, by reason of their pov­erty. And when he saw the enemy skilfullyfortified in their camp, he encouraged theJews, and told them, that they ought to fight,though it were with their naked bodies; forthat God had sometimes of old given suchmen strength, and against such as were morein number, and were armed also; out of re­gard to their great courage. So he command­ed the trumpeters to sound for the battle.And by thus falling upon the enemies whenthey did not expect it, and thereby astonish­ing and disturbing their minds, he slew manyof those that resisted him; and went on pur­suing the rest as far as Gadara, and the plainsof Idumea, and Ashdod, and Jamnia. Andof these there fell about three thousand. Yetdid Judas exhort his soldiers not to be toodesirous of the spoils: for that still they musthave a battle with Gorgias, and the forcesthat were with him: but that when they hadonce overcome them, then they might secure­ly plunder the camp; because these were theonly enemies remaining, and they expectedno others. And just as he was speaking tohis soldiers, Gorgias's men looked down intothat army, which they left in their camp, andsaw that it was overthrown, and the campburnt: for the smoke that arose from it shew­ed them, even when they were a great way off, what had happened. When thereforethose that were with Gorgias understood thatthings were in this posture, and perceivedthat those that were with Judas were readyto fight them, they also were affrighted, andput to flight. But then Judas, as though hehad already beaten Gorgias's soldiers with­out fighting, returned and seized on thespoils. He took a great quantity of gold,and silver, and purple, and blue; and thenreturned home with joy, and singing hymnsto God for their good success. For this vic­tory greatly contributed to the recovery oftheir liberty.* Lysias was confounded at the defeat of thearmy, which he had sent; and the next yearhe assembled sixty thousand chosen men.He also took five thousand horsemen, andfell upon Judea: and he went up to the hillcountry, at Bethsur,f a village of Judea, andpitched his camp there: where Judas methim, with ten thousand men. And when hesaw the great number of his enemies, heprayed to God, that he would assist him; andjoined battle with the first of the enemy thatappeared, and slew about five thousand ofthem; and became thereby terrible to therest. Nay indeed Lysias observing the greatspirit of the Jews, how they were preparedto die, rather than lose their liberty; and be­ing afraid of their desperate way of fighting,as if it were real strength; he took the restof the army back with him, and returned toAntioch: where he enlisted foreigners intothe service, and prepared to fall upon Judeawith a greater army. When therefore the generals of Antiochus'sarmies had been defeated so often, Judas as­sembled the people, and told them, that afterthese many victories which God had giventhem, they ought to go up to Jerusalem, andpurify the temple, and offer the appointedsacrifices.J But as soon as he, with the wholemultitude, was come to Jerusalem, and foundthe temple deserted, and its gates burntdown, and plants growing in the temple oftheir own accord, on account of its desertion;he and those that were with him began tolament, and were quite confounded at the * 1 Mace. iv. 24. t It had been fortified by kingRehoboam, 2 Chron. xi. 7.and was, at this time, a very important fortress, as being one of the keys of Judea on the south side of IdumeaUniversal History, lib. 2, c. 11. B.I See 1 Mace. iv. 36—65.