OCR Output DECLINE AND FAEX [CHAP. XLI. brother Zano, who expressed a sanguine confidence thatthe king, after the example of their ancestors, had al­ready chastised the rashness of the Roman invader."Alas! my brother, (replied Gelimer,) Heaven has de­clared against our unhappy nation. While you havesubdued Sardinia, we have lost Africa. No sooner didBelisarius appear with a handful of soldiers, than courageand prosperity deserted the cause of the Vandals. Yournephew Gibamund, your brother Ammatas, have beenbetrayed to death by the cowardice of their followers.Our horses, our ships, Carthage itself, and all Africa,are in the power of the enemy. Yet the Vandals stillprefer an ignominious repose, at the expense of theirwives and children, their wealth and liberty. Nothingnow remains, except the field of Bulla, and the hope ofyour valour. Abandon Sardinia; fly to our relief; re­store our empire, or perish by our side." On the re­ceipt of this epistle, Zano imparted his grief to the prin­cipal Vandals; but the intelligence was prudently con­cealed from the natives of the island. The troops em­barked in one hundred and twenty galleys at the port ofCagliari, cast anchor the third day on the confines ofMauritania, and hastily pursued their march to join theroyal standard in the camp of Bulla. Mournful was theinterview: the two brothers embraced; they wept in si­lence; no questions were asked of the Sardinian victory;HO inquiries were made of the African misfortunes: theysaw before ,their eyes the whole extent of their calami­ties; and the absence of their wives and children af­forded a melancholy proof, that either death or capti­vity had been their lot. The languid spirit of the Van­dals was at length awakened and united by the entreatiesof their king, the example of Zano, and the instant dan­ger which threatened their monarchy and religion. Themilitary strength of the nation advanced to battle; andsuch was the rapid increase, that, before their armyreached Tricameron, about twenty miles from Carthage,