OCR Output 286 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. to retire with their effects; but the conqueror rigor-XIX" ously insisted, that the Romans should for everabandon the king and kingdom of Armenia. Apeace, or rather a long truce of thirty years, wasstipulated between the hostile nations; the faith ofthe treaty was ratified by solemn oaths, and religiousceremonies; and hostages of distinguished rank werereciprocally delivered to secure the performance ofthe conditions *.The weak- The sophist of Antioch, who saw with indignationdisgrace of the sceptre of his hero in the feeble hand of a Chns-Jovian. j.ian successor, professes to admire the moderationof Sapor, in contenting himself with so small a por­tion of the Roman empire. If he had stretched asfar as the Euphrates the claims of his ambition, hemight have been secure, says Libanius, of not meet­ing with a refusal. If he had fixed, as the boundaryof Persia, the Orontes, the Cydnus, the Sangarius,or even the Thracian Bosphorus, flatterers would nothave been wanting in the court of Jovian to convincethe timid monarch, that his remaining provinceswould still afford the most ample gratifications ofpower and luxuryt. Without adopting in its fullforce this malicious insinuation, we must acknow­ledge that the conclusion of so ignominious a treatywas facilitated by the private ambition of Jovian.The obscure domestic, exalted to the throne by for­tune, rather than by merit, was impatient to escapefrom the hands of the Persians; that he might pre­vent the designs of Procopius, who commanded thearmy of Mesopotamia, and established his doubtfulreign over the legions and provinces, which were • The treaty of Dura is recorded with grief or indignation by Ammianus(xxv. 7,), Libanius (Orat. Parent. c. 142. p.364.), Zosimus (l.iii.p. 190,191.),Gregory Nazianzen i,Orat. iv. p. 117, 118, who imputes the distress to Julian,the deliverance to Jovian), andEutropius (x. 17,). The last-mentioned writer,who was present in a military station, ,styles this peace necessariam quidem sedignobilem. t Libanius, Orat. Parent , c. 143. p. 364, 365.