OCR Output A. D. IS.] 67 OF TACITUS. trade of an informer; that detestable trade, which, bythe iniquity of the limes, and the daring wickednessof the vile and profligate, became afterwards thesource of wealth and splendour. Obscure and indi­gent, but bold and pragmatical, this man by secret in­formations pampered the cruelty of Tiberius, andwriggled himself into favour. By his detestable prac­tices he became formidable to the first characters inRome. He gained the ear of the prince, and the ha­tred of mankind; leaving an example, by which thewhole race of his followers rose from beggary andcontempt to wealth and power; till, having wroughtthe destruction of the most eminent citizens, they fellat last by their own pernicious arts. The accusationbrought by Csepio Crispinus, charged Marcelluswith having spoken defamatory words against Tibe­rius. The charge was big with danger, while theaccuser had the art to bring forward, from the life ofthe emperor, the worst of his vices; ascribing all tothe malignity of Marcellus. The words were believedto be spoken, because the facts were true. Hispo, the pleader, added( that the accused hadplaced his own statue higher than the Csesars; and toa bust, from which he had struck off the head of Au­gustus, united that of Tiberius. The prince, who hadhitherto remained silent, rose abruptly; declaring, ina tone of vehemencs, that in a cause of that impor­tance he would give his vote openly, and under thesanction of an oath. By this expedient the same ob­ligation was to be imposed on the whole assembly.But even then, in that black period, expiring libertyshowed some signs of life. Cneius Piso had the spiritto ask, " In what rank, Ceesar, do you choose to give"your voice? If first, your opinion must be mine; if" last, I may have the misfortune to differ from you."Tiberius felt that his warmth had transported him toofar. He checked his ardour, and had the moderationto consent that Marcellus should be acquitted on thelaw of violated majesty. There remained behind acharge of peculation, and that was referred to theproper jurisdiction. LXXV. The criminal proceedings before the senate