OCR Output •8U4 MEDIOLANUM. MEDIOLANUM. and tlius at once raised it to the dignity of thocapital of Northern Italy. From this period thoemperors of the West made it their habitual abode(Eutrop. iz. 27 ; Zosim. ii. 10, 17, &c), until theincreasing fear of the barbarians induced Honorius,in A. u. 404. to take refuge in the inaccessiblemarshes of Ravenna. Maxitnian is said to hareadorned the city with many splendid public buildings(Vict. Caet. 39); and it was doubtless at this periodthat it rose to the splendour and magnificencewhich, about the middle of the fourth century,excited the admiration of the poet Ausonius, whoassigns it the sixth place among the cities of theempire. The houses are described by him as nu­merous and elegantly built, corresponding to thecultivated manners and cheerful character of the in­habitants. It was surrounded with a double rangeof walls, enclosing an ample space for the buildingsof tho city. Among these were conspicuous a circus,a theatre, many temples, the palace or residence ofthe emperor, a mint ; and baths, which bore thename of Herculean, in honour of their founder Maxi-mianus, and were so important as to give name to awhole quarter of the city. The numerous porticoeswhich were attached to these and other publicbuildings were adorned with marble statues ; andthe whole aspect of the city, if we may believe thep>et, did not suffer by comparison with Home.(Auson. Clar. Urb. 5.) The transference of the imperial court and resi­dence to Ravenna must have given a considerableshock to the prosperity of Mediolanum, though itcontinued to be still regarded as the capital of Li-guria (as Gallia Transpadana was now called), andwas the residence of the Consularis or VicariusItaliae, to whose jurisdiction the whole of NorthernItaly was subject. (Libell. Proline, p. 62; Bocking,ail Not Dign. ii. p. 442.) But a much more severeblow was inflicted on the city in A. i>. 452, when itwas taken and plundered by Attila, who after thefall of Aquileia carried his arms, almost without oppo­sition, through the whole region N. of the Po.(Jomand. Get. 42; Hist. MiscelL xv. p. 549.)Notwithstanding this disaster, Mediolanum seemsto have retained much of its former importance. Itwas still regarded as the metropolis of NorthernItaly, and after the fall of the Western Empire, inA. I>. 476, became the royal residence of the Gothickings Odoacer and The-jdoric. Procopius indeedspeaks of it in the sixth century as surpassing all theother cities of the West in size and population, andinferior to Rome alone. (Procop. B. G. ii. 8.) Itwas recovered with little difficulty by Belisarius,but immediately besieged by the Goths under Uraia,the brother of Vitiges, who, after a lung Hiege, madehimself again master of the city (a. d. 5.'tlJ), whichhe is said to have utterly destroyed, putting all themale inhabitants, to the number of .'100,000, to thesword, and reducing the women to slavery. (Id. ib.21.) It is evident, however, that the expressions ofProcopius on this occasion mast be greatly exag­gerated, for, at the time of the invasion of the Lom­bards under Alboin (a. r>. 568), Mediolanum alreadyreappears in little less than its former importance.It was still the acknowledged capital of Liguria(P. Diac. Hut. Ixing. ii. 15, 25), and, as the me­tropolitan see, appears to have retained this dignityunder the Lombard kin;s, though those monarchstransferred their royal residence to Ticinum or Var'ui.In the middle ages it rapidly rose again to pros­perity; and, though a second time destroyed by the emperor Frederic Barbarossa in 1162, quickly re­covered, and has continued down to the present dayto be one of the moat important and flourishingcities of Italy. The position of Milan, almost in the centre ofthe great plain of Northern Italy, just about midwaybetween the Alps and the Padus, appear! to baremarked it in all ages as the natural capital of thatextensive and fertile region. Its ready communi­cations with the Ticinus on the one side, and tb#Addua on the other, in great measure supply tbtwant which would otherwise have arisen from iunot being situated on a navigable river; and tb*fertile plain between these two rivers is watered bythe minor but still considerable streams of theLambro and Olona, The latter, which is not no­ticed by any ancient writer, flows under the walls i/Milan. The modem city contains few vestiges ofits ancient splendour. Of all the public builjit c*which excited the admiration of Ausonius (y*above), the only remains are the columns of a por­tico, 16 in number, and of the Corinthian uni*r,now attached to the church of 5. Lorenzo, and >up-posed, with some probability, to have been originallyconnected with the Thermae or baths erected by tlaiemperor Maxitnian. A single antique column, nowstanding in front of the ancient basilica of Sant'Ambrogio, has been removed from some other aha,and docs not indicate the existence of an ancientbuilding on the spot. Numerous inscriptions have,however, been discovered, and are still preserved inthe museum at MtUin. These fully confirm themunicipal importance of Mediolanum under the earlyRoman Empire; while from one of them we learnthe fact that the city, notwithstanding its flourish­ing condition, received a colony under Hadrian, andassumed, in honour of that emperor, the titles ifColonia Aelia Augusta. (Orell. Inter. 1703, 1909,3942, 4000, 4060, See.; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 409.) Mediolanum was the central point from whichall the highroads of Italy N. of the Padus may heconsidered as radiating. The first and prii,<-i[alof these was that which led by Laus Pumj^ia toPlacentia, where it joined the Via Aemilia. *i:d thusbecame the direct line of route from Milan to Ra­venna and Rome. Another main line was that byNovaria and Vercellae to Eporedia and AugustaPractoria, which must have been the principalline of communication between Milan and Trans­alpine Gaul. A third road led in a southerly direc­tion to Ticinum (7'arii). from which there weretwo lines; the one proceeding by Laumellutn toAugusta Taurinorum, and thence orer the CottiaaAlps into the southern provinces of Oau!; the othercrossing the Padus to Dertona, and thence arr>*sthe Apennines to Genoa A fourth line was tljtto Comum, from whence there was a much fre­quented pass by the Lacus Lariux, and arrusa theKhaetian Alps into the valley of the Am, tl.ns mjce-iug a direct and speedy communication with theIhinube. Lastly, a great line of highway led fromMilan to Aquileia, passing through Brrgomum.Brixia, Verona, Vicentia. Patavium, Altinum, andConcordia. The details of all these routes are gvrcain the Antonine Itinerary and the Tabids I'ratia-geriana. [K.H. B.] MEMOLA'Nl'M (/fin. -Int.; M»».o\«Vio». ptetii. 3. §18), s town of the Onlovices in Britain.It occurs in the Jtm. Ant., between Derm (LCk*9~Ur), and Uriconium (H'runr/fr), two (uxn, thesites of which are well authenticated; acd is the