OCR Output 476 LITERATURE AND ART. [Book IV. came into use for that purpose—the Italian marble-quarrieswere not yet in operation. A magnificent colonnade stilladmired in the time of the Empire, which Quintus Metellus 14*. (consul in 611) the conqueror of Macedonia constructed inthe Campus Martius, enclosed the first marble temple whichthe capital had seen; it was soon followed by similar struc- 138. tures built on the Capitol by Scipio Nasica (consul in 616), 128. and on the Circus by Gnaeus Octavius (consul in 626).The first private house adorned with marble pillars was that of 91. the orator Lucius Crassus ( + 663) on the Palatine (P. 416).But where they could plunder or purchase, instead of creatingfor themselves, they did so; it was a wretched indication ofthe poverty of Roman architecture, that it already began toemploy the columns of the old Greek temples; the RomanCapitol, for instance, was embellished by Sulla with those ofthe temple of Zeus at Athens. The works, that were pro­duced in Rome, proceeded from the hands of foreigners; thefew Roman artists of this period, who are particularly men­tioned, are without exception Italian or transmarine Greekswho had migrated thither. Such was the case with thearchitect Hermodorus from the Cyprian Salamis, who amongother works restored the Roman docks and built for Quintus 143. Metellus (consul in 611) the temple of Jupiter Stator inthe basilica constructed by him, and for Decimus Brutus 138. (consul in 616) the temple of Mars in the Flaminian circus; 89. with the sculptor Pasiteles (about 665) from Magna Graecia,who furnished images of the gods in ivory for Romantemples; and with the painter and philosopher Metrodorusof Athens, who was written for to paint the pictures for the 167. triumph of Lucius Paullus (587). It is significant that thecoins of this epoch exhibit in comparison with those of theprevious period a greater variety of types, but a retro­gression rather than an improvement in the cutting of thedies. Finally, music and dancing passed over in like mannerfrom Hellas to Rome, solely in order to be there applied tothe enhancement of decorative luxury. Such foreign artswere certainly not new in Rome; the state had from oldentime allowed Etruscan flute-players and dancers to appearat its festivals, and the freedmen and the lowest class of theRoman people had previously followed this trade. But itwas a novelty, that Greek dances and musical performancesshould form the regular accompaniment of a fashionable