OCR Output SORACTE. 1023 SOTIATES. W Sme (Plot. /. c), and tin royal residence ofiif named Arcatea. Th« people are evidentlyam m the Surae of I'liny (vi. 30. a. 23).m plana them in the mountains above Hadrut •«p). [V.]ORACTE (M<mte S. Orate), a mountain of-l. litoated between Falerii and the Tiber,t 26 miks N. of Rome, from which it fonns ain i 11* object. It is detached from the chainlie Apennines, from which it is separated by the*-■ ■ ing valley of tb« Tiber; yet in a geologicaltit belongs to the Apennine range, of which it ■ wilting offset, being composed of the hardtome limestone, which at once distinguishes iti the Hons Ciinimu and the other volcanic hillsthtch it is surrounded. Though of no greatiiun, hring only 2420 feet in height, it rises in«W and abrupt mass above the surroundingt (or rather table-land), which renders it a:iag and picturesque object, and a conspicuousm» in ill views of the Camjmgnn. Hence thetan of its name by Horace in a well-known odem. i. 9) is peculiarly appropriate. It was con-<tfJ ki Apollo, who had a temple on its summit,M) 'o the Mine spot now occupied by the mo-rrrt4S.SUrrstro, and was worshipped there withkv rrligiou rites. His priests were supposed Ute power of passing unharmed throught-: tending on tin? hot cinders with their bare (Virf. Am. viL 696, xi. 785—790; Sil. ItaLJ—ISl.rii. 662; Plin.vii.2.) Its rugged andJ peaks were in the days of Cato still theI of wild goats. (Varr. K. R. ii. 3. § 3.)* t* ktands about 6 miles from Cirita Castel- uvtita of the ancient Falerii, and 2 from the ■ It derives its modern appellation from the» of Samt Oreste, which stands at its S. ex-t» no a steep and rocky hill, forming a kind ofr hdge at the foot of the more elevated peaksnet* itself. This site, which bears evidentof urient habitation, is supposed to be that of*"iot Fero5IA or Lucus Feroxtak. (Den-Ftruria, vol. i. p. 179.) [E. U. B.]WHODirxUM, or SORVIOnU'NUM, a town**3nu Roman*, in the territory of the Belgao.-<»'. pp. 483, 486.) It is identified with OldK wfcere coins of several Roman emperors havehmt, and where the traces of the ancient ■ vails show it to have been about half a a rjrumfrrenee. (Camden, p. 113.) [T.H.D.]KDICE, a lake in Gallia. A river Sordus rantii« Ptmg Sordice, in the country of the Sor-w Sunii. [Sordoxks.] i hie paltuque, qnippe ditTuse patet,ae istam Sordicen cognominant." *•», Or. Mar., mm I. Vossius reads it.) I Santie* u supposed by some geographers to ■ ■>',.; tie Leueate; but others take it to beap fanner south, called E'tang de SL Nazaire,r Kttmg He, Isemcate to be that near Salsulae, m described hv Strabo, Mela, and others,nat; Rcsctun.] [G. L.] Umj.NES, or SAKDONKS, as the name hasi*s been written, a people in Gallia. Mt-la*ritw ; after tbe Salsnlae fons "is the or aand the unall streams Telia and Tichis ;,u bosriuo, and the virus Illiberis." PlinyI begins his description of Gallia, Narbonen-b Uw Ui of the Pyrenees* He taya: ** On the const is the regio Sordonum or Sardomim, andin the interior the Consuarani; the rivers Techum,Veniodubrum; towns, llliberis and Ruscino." ThexoSortlones are the Sordi of Avienus (Or. Marit.562): — "Sordm inJe deniquePopulns agebat inter avios locosAc perlinentes usque ad intcrius mare,Qua pinifertae stint Pyrenae vertices.Inter ferarurn lustra ducebat greges,Et arva late et gurgitem ponti preinit:" as I. Vossius reads the passage in his edition of Mela.The Sordi then occupied the coast of the Mediter­ranean from the Pyrenees northward, and the neigh­bouring part of the interior at the north foot of thePyrenees. Ptolemy, as D'Anvillc observes, does notmention the Sordoncs, and he has made the territoryof the Volcae Tectosages comprehend llliberis andRuscino. The Sordones probably occupied the wholeof the territory called ItmissilLm, and they would boin possession of that pass of the Pyrenees calledCot de Pertta, which is defended by the fort ofBellegartle. They bordered on the Consorani. [Con-hokani.] [G. I,.] SORICATtlA, a place in Hispania Baetica, men.tioned by Hirtius (B. Hisp. c. 24), and the samecalled also " Soritia " by that author (c. 27). Ukert(ii. pt. i. p. 361) seeks it in tho neighbourhood of theFinnan Salsnm (the Salado), S. of tbe Baetis, andbetween Osttfia and Anteqnera. [T. H. !>.] SORING! (JlprrM, ftripL Af. E. p. 34), apeople of the southern part of Hmdostan, who ap­parently dwelt along the banks of the Chaberua(KAvtri). Lassen places them below the Sorae, onthe slopes of the hills above Madras. [V.} SORITIA. [SoMCAJUA.] SORNUM, (Zo>ok, Ptol. iii. 8. § 10), a city ofDacia; now Gieritza. [T. H. D.j SORO'RES (AD), a station in Lusitanin, N. ofEmerita. (Itin.Ant. p. 433.) Variously identifiedwith Monfanchfs and Aliseda. [T. H. I>.] SOSTOMAGUS, in Gallia, is placed by the Jeru­salem Itin. between Tolosa (Toulmse) and Carcaso(CarcoMone), 38 miles from Toulouse and 24 fromCarcassone. The road is nearly direct, and if thedistances are correct, we might perhaps find somename like Sosto in the proper place. Some geo­graphers have found Sostomagus near Castelnau-dari. [G. L] SOTERA, a place in Ariana, mentioned by Am-mianus (xxiii. 6). It is probably the same as thatcalled br Ptolemy Zttrrupa (vi. 17. § 7). [V.] SOTIA'TES or SONTIATES, a people of Aqni-tania. Schneider (Caesar, B. G. iii. 20) who writesM in Sontiatium fines rt has a long note on the variousforms of this word. Kicolaus I>amascenus (quotedby Athenaeus.vi. p. 249) writes the name Sotiaui, butas Caesar was his authority for what he says,he may have altered the form of the word. In DionCassius (xxxix. c. 46) the reading is 'Amrfrar (ed.Reimarus); but there are other variations in theMSS. In Pliny (iv. 19) we find among the na­tions of Aquitania "Ansei, Elusates, Sottiates,Osquidatee Campestres.*' Orosius (v\. 8. ed. Haver-kamp) has Sontiates, but one MS. has Sotiates andothers have Sociates. In B. c. 56 Caesar sent P. Crassns into Aqui­tania. Crassns came from the north, and after sum­moning tho men of fighting age who were on thomuster rolls of Toulouse^ Carcasscne,Mnd Narbonne,