OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 43 blood flowed from a lake. On account of these por­tents there was a supplication performed of one day'scontinuance. During many successive ones, sacrificeswere offered of victims of the larger kinds, and yet nofavorable omens appeared, nor, for a long time, wasthere any indication of the gods becoming propitious.The baneful events, thus foreboded, affected not im­mediately the safety of the state, but fell on the per­sons of the consuls. The Apollinarian games hadbeen first celebrated by the city pretor, Cornelius Sulla,in the consulate of Quintus Fulvius and Appius Clau­dius; and, thenceforward, all the city pretors in suc­cession had performed them; but they vowed themonly for one year, and fixed no particular day for theirobservance. This year a grievous epidemic disorderfell both on the city and country: however, the sick­ness was rather tedious than mortal. On account ofthis malady, a supplication was performed in all thestreets of Rome, the city pretor, Publius Licinius Va­rus, being at the same time ordered to propose to thepeople to enact a law, that a vow should be made forthe perpetual celebration of those games on a statedday. Accordingly he himself first engaged for it,holding the games on the third day of the nones ofJuly, which day has ever since been observed as ananniversary festival. 24. The rumors concerning the Arretians grewevery day more and more alarming, and greatly in­creased the anxiety of the senate; wherefore orderswere despatched to Caius Hostilius, not to defer takinghostages from that people; and Caius Terenlius Varrowas sent with a commission to receive them from him,and conduct them to Rome. On his arrival, Hosti­lius immediately ordered one legion, which was en­camped before the gates, to march into the city; andthen, having posted guards in proper places, he sum­moned the senate to attend him in the forum, andmake a demand of hostages. The senate requestedtwo days' time to consider the matter; but he insistedthat they should give them instantly, or he would next