OCR Output 2\1 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLU. Cal mucks,0 which nourish the largest sheep and oxen inthe world. The soil is fruitful, and the climate mildand temperate: the happy region was ignorant of earth­quake and pestilence; the emperor's throne was turnedtowards the east, and a golden wolf on the top of a spear,seemed to guard the entrance of his tent. One of thesuccessors of Bertezena was tempted by the luxury andsuperstition of China; but his design of building citiesand temples was defeated by the simple wisdom of abarbarian counsellor. "The Turks (he said) are notequal in number to one-hundredth part of the inhabitantsof China. If we balance their power, and elude theirarmies, it is because we wander without any fixed habita­tions, in the exercise of war and hunting. Are we strong?we advance and conquer: are we feeble? we retire andare concealed. Should the Turks confine themselveswithin the walls of cities, the loss of a battle would bethe destruction of their empire. The Bonzes preachonly patience, humility, and the renunciation of theworld. Such, O king! is not the religion of heroes."They entertained with less reluctance the doctrines of ■ Zoroaster; but the greatest part of the nation acquiesced,without inquiry, in the opinions, or rather in the prac­tice, of their ancestors. The honours of sacrifice werereserved for the supreme Deity; they acknowledged, in ■rude hymns, their obligations to the air, the fire, thewater, and the earth ; and their priests derived some pro­fit from the art of divination. Their unwritten lawswere rigorous and impartial: theft was punished by a "tenfold restitution: adultery, treason, and murder, with. [ death: and no chastisement could be inflicted too severefor the rare and inexpiable guilt of cowardice. As thesubject nations marched under the standard of theTurks, their cavalry, both men and horses, were proudly c The country of the Turks, now of the Calmucks, is well described in the Gene­alogical History, p. 521—562. The curious notes of the French translator are en­larged and digested in the second volume of the lioglish version.