OCR Output p. \y. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 59 siah did not admit of this advice of Neco's, but put himself intott posture to hinder him from this intended march. 1 suppose itwas fate that pushed him on to this conduct, that it might takean occasion against him ; for as he was setting his * army in array, and rode about in his chariot, from one wing of his armyto another, one of the Egyptians shot an arrow at him, and putan end to his eagerness of fighting: for being sorely wounded, hecommanded a retreat to be sounded for his army, and returnedto Jerusalem, and died of that wound; and was magnificentlyburied in the sepulchre of his fathers, when he had lived thirty-nine years, and of them had reigned thirty-one. But all thepeople mourned greatly for him, lamenting and grieving on hisaccount many days: and Jeremiah the prophet f composedan elegy to lament him, which is extant till this time also. More­over, this prophet denounced beforehand the sad calamities thatwere coming upon the city. He also left behind him in writinga description of that destruction of our nation which has latelyhappened in our days, and the taking of Babylon; nor was hethe only prophet who delivered such predictions beforehand tothe multitude, but so did Ezekiel tdso, who was the first personthat wrote, and left behind him in writing two books concern­ing these events. Now these two prophets were priests by birth;but of them Jeremiah dwelt in Jerusalem, from the thirteenthyear of the reign of Josiah, until the city and temple were utter­ly destroyed. However as to what befell this prophet, we willrelate it in its proper place. 2. Upon the death of Josiah, which we have already mention­ed, his son, Jehoahaz by name, took the kingdom : being abouttwenty-three years old: He reigned in Jerusalem; and his mo­ther was Hamutal, of the city Libnah. He was an impious man,and impure in his course of life; but as the king of Egypt re­turned from the battle, he sent for Jehoahaz to come to him, tothe city called J Hamath, which belongs to Syriaj and when hawas come, he put him in bonds, and delivered the kingdom to abrother of his, by the father's side whose name was Eliakim, and * This battle is justly esteemed the very same that Herodotus, B. II. § 156. men­tions, when hi- says, that "Neco joined battle with the Syrians [or Jews] at Mag-dolum (Megiddo,) nnd beat them,".as Dr. Hudson here observes. f Whether Josephus, from 2 Chrou. XXXT. 25. here means the book of the La­mentations of Jeremiah, still extant, which chiefly belongs to the destruction of Je­rusalem under Nebuchadnezzar, or to any other like melancholy poem now lost, butextant in the days of Josephus, belonging peculiarly to Josiah, cannot now be deter­mined. } This ancient city Hamath, which is joined with Arpad, or Aradus, and with Oa-matcus, 2 Kings xviii. 18. Isa. xxxvi. 19. Jer. xlix. 23. cities of Syria and Fhenicianear the borders of Judea, was also itself evidently near the same borders though longage* utterly destroyed. VOL. II. Ii 17