OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 93 motion; and that some of the Thracians, particularlythe Maedians, would certainly make incursions intothe adjoining provinces of Macedonia, if the kingshould be employed in a distant war. The Boeotians,indeed, and the people of the inland parts of Greece,informed him that, in order to prevent them from pass­ing to the assistance of the allied states, the straits ofThermopylae, where the road is confined, and con­tracted to a very narrow breadth, had been shut up bythe jEtolians with a ditch and a rampart. Sueh anumber of disturbances on all sides were sufficient torouse even an indolent leader: he dismissed the am­bassadors with promises of assisting them all, as timeand circumstances would permit. He sent to Pepare-thus a garrison for the city; a business which requiredthe utmost dispatch, accounts having been receivedfrom thence that Attains had sailed over from Lemnos,and was ravaging all the country round. He de­spatched Polyphantas, with a small number of forces,to Boeotia; and likewise Menippus, one of the officersof his guards, with one thousand targeteers, (the targetis not unlike the common buckler,) to Chalcis. Agria-num was reinforced with five hundred men, that allparts of the island might be secured. He himself wentto Scotussa, ordering the Macedonian troops to bebrought over thither from Larissa. He was there in­formed that the /Etolians had been summoned to anassembly at Heraclea, and that king Attalus was tocome to consult with them on the conduct of the war.Resolving to disturb this meeting by his sudden ap­proach, he led his army by forced marches to Hera­clea, and arrived there just after the assembly hadbeen dismissed. However, he destroyed the crops,which were almost ripe, particularly round the jEnianbay. He then led back his forces to Scotussa, and,leaving there the body of his army, retired with theroyal guards to Demetrias. That he might be in rea­diness to meet every effort of the enemy, he sent peo­ple from hence to Phocis,and Euboea, and Peparethus,to choose out eleyated situations, where fires being