OCR Output Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 385 had administered the government, and had not neglected anything which was for their advantage; and as he was very joyful,he now remitted to them the fourth part of their taxes for thelast year. Accordingly, they were so pleased with his favourand speech to them, that they went their ways with great glad­ness, and wished the king all manner of happiness. CHAP. III. How great disturbances arose in Herod's family on his preferringAntipater, his eldest son, before the rest, till Alexander tookthat injury very heinously. § 1. JJUT now the affairs in Herod's family were m moredisorder, and became more severe upon him, by the hatredof Salome to the young men [Alexander and Aristobulus,]which descended as it were by inheritance [from their motherMariamne:] And as she had fully succeeded against theirmother, so she proceeded to that degree of madness and inso­lence as to endeavour that none of her posterity might be leftalive, who might have it in their power to revenge her death.The young men had also somewhat of a bold and uneasy disposi­tion towards their father, occasioned by the remembrance ofwhat their mother had unjustly suffered, and by their own affec­tation of dominion. The old grudge was also renewed; and theycast reproaches on Salome and Pheroras, who requited theyoung men with malicious designs, and actually laid treacheroussnares for them. Now, as for this hatred it was equal on bothsides, but the manner of exerting that hatred was different: foras for the young men they were rash, reproaching and affront­ing the others openly, and were unexperienced enough to thinkit the most generous to declare their minds in that undauntedmanner: but the others did not take that method, but made useof calumnies after a subtle and a spiteful manner, still provok­ing the young men, and imagining that their boldness might intime turn to the offering violence to their father; for inasmuchas they were not ashamed of the pretended crimes of their mother,nor thought she suffered justly, these supposed that it might allength exceed all bounds, and induce them to think they oughtto be -ivenged on their father, though it were by despatchinghim with their own hands. At length it came to this, that thewhole city was full of their discourses, and, as is usual in suchcontests, the unskilfulness of the young men was pitied, but thecontrivance of Salome was too hard for them, and what impu­tations she laid upon them came to be believed, by means oftheir own conduct: for they who were so deeply affected with