OCR Output an. 855.] 335 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. him, wherefore this young man came to him?and added withal, that he was mad: he re­plied, " you guess rightly; for the words hespake were the words of a madman." Andwhen they were eager about the matter, anddesired he would tell them, he answered,that God had said, he had chosen him to beking over the multitude. When he had saidthis, every one of them *put off his garment,and spread it under him, and blew withtrumpets, and proclaimed Jehu king. Sowhen he had assembled the army, he pre­pared to set out immediately against Joram,at the city Jezreel; in which city, as wesaid before, he was healing of the woundwhich he had received in the siege of Ra-moth. It happened also that Ahaziah, kingof Jerusalem, was now come to Joram; (forhe was his sister's son, as we have saidalready,) to see how he did after his wound,and this upon account of their kindred. Butas Jehu was desirous to make a suddenattack upon Joram and his companions, hedesired that none of the soldiers might runaway, and tell Joram what had happened;for that this would be an evident demon­stration of their kindness to him, and wouldshew that their real inclinations were tomake him king. So they were pleased with what he did,and guarded the roads,f lest somebody shouldprivately carry intelligence to those that wereat Jezreel. Now Jehu took his choice horse­men, and sat upon his chariot, and went onfor Jezreel. And when he was come near,the watchman,J whom Joram had set thereto observe such as came to the city, saw Jehumarching on, and told Joram that he saw a of Ezekiel, chap, xxiii. 30, 31. and of Jeremiah, xxix.26.) as fools and madmen; and some great names in theHeathen world, looking upon all pretenders to inspirationin no better light; according to that noted passage inCicero: Quid habet auctorilatis furor iste, quern divinumvocatis, ut quae sapiens non videt, ea videat insanus, et is,qui humanos sensus atniserit, divinos assecutus sit? DeDivinat. lib. 2. B. * Spanheim here observes, that this putting off men'sgarments, and spreading it under a king, was an easterncustom, which he has elsewhere explained. t An. 855. J In time of peace, as well as war, it was customary tohave watchmen set on high and eminent places whereverthe king was, to prevent his being surprised. Thus David,at Jerusalem, was informed by the watchman, that his sonswere escaped from the slaughter of Absalom, when he troop of horsemen. He accordingly gaveorders, that one of his horsemen should besent out to meet them, and to know who itwas that was coming. So when the mes­senger came up to Jehu, he asked him, inwhat condition the army was? for that theking wanted to know it. But Jehu told himnot to meddle with such matters; but tofollow him. When the watchman saw this,he told Joram, that the horseman had mingledhimself among the company, and came alongwith them. And when the king had sent asecond messenger, Jehu commanded him todo as the former did. And as soon as thewatchman told this also to Joram, he at lastgot upon his chariot himself, together withAhaziah, the king of Jerusalem; for, as wesaid before, he was there, to see how Joramdid, after he had been wounded; as being hisrelation. So he went out to meet Jehu, whomarched slowly,|| and in good order. Andwjaen Joram met him in the field of Naboth,he asked him, if all things were well in thecamp? but Jehu reproached him bitterly,and called his mother a witch and a harlot.Upon this the king, fearing what he intended,turned his chariot about as soon as he could,and said to Ahaziah, " We are fought againstby deceit and treachery." But Jehu drewhis bow and smote him; the arrow goingthrough his heart. So Joram fell down im­mediately, and gave up the ghost. Jehu alsogave orders to Bidkar, the captain of thethird part of his army, to cast the dead bodyinto the field of Naboth; reminding him ofthe prophecy which Elijah delivered to Ahabhis father, when he had slain Naboth; thatboth he and his family should perish in that thought them all lost, 2 Sam. xiii. 34. and thereforeJoram, who had an army lying before Ramoth Gilead, hadgood reason to keep a watchful eye upon every motionthat came, especially from that quarter. Patrick's andCalmefs Commentaries. B. I I Our copies say, that this driving of the chariots waslike the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drovefuriously, 2 Kings ix. 20. whereas Josephus's copy, ashe understood it, was that, on the contrary, Jehu marchedslowly, and in good order. Nor cap it be denied, thatsince there was interval enough for king Joram to sendout two horsemen, one after another, to Jehu, and atlength to go out with king Ahaziah to meet him; and allthis after he was come within sight of the watchman, andbefore he was come to Jezreel, the probability is greatlyon the side of Josephus's copy, or interpretation f