OCR Output CHA<-.45, ROMAN HISTORY. 173 swer, that their demand was unseasonable; it was notyet time" to" fight, so that they must keep within theircamp. Then a proclamation was made, prohibiting themto engage, under the severe penalty of" being treated asan enemy. Dismissed thus, the backwardness the consuls shewedto fighting, only served to increase their ardour; more­over, when the enemy got intelligence that the consulshad resolved not to risk a battle, they repeated theirinsults with more violence than ever, being now assuredthey might do it with impunity, as the soldiers wouldnot be trusted with arms: This at last would terminatein a mutiny, and that in the dissolution of the Romanempire. Stimulated with these reflections, they advan­ced haughtily to the works, branded them with a thou­sand opprobrious names, and were within a little ofstorming the camp. The soldiers could no. longer suffer an abuse so offen­sive, but ran from all quarters of the camp to the con­suls, not formally as before, by the principal of the cen­turions, but almost all in a body, with loud cries, de­manding to be Ied on to battle. The time was nowcome, but they were still put off; at last Fabius, find­ing his colleague giving way, lest the tumult should endin a revolt, after the trumpet had sounded to silence,addressed him thus: "That these fellows can conquer,1 am perfectly assured; but whether they will,—thatis the question. Therefore, with me it is a decidedand determined point, never to give the signal forbattle, till they first swear that they will return vic­torious. They once deceived a Roman consul, but'the gods they will not deceive." Among the fore­most of those who were urgent for battle, was M. Flavo-leius, a centurion, "I shall return, Marcus Fabius,"said he, " from the field victorious. If I deceive you,"may father Jupiter, "Mars Gradivus, and ihe other"incensed deities, dash me to pieces." The rest -ofthe army followed his example, each swearing to thesame purpose. Having thus sworn, the signal is given; they fly totheir arms, and big with resentment as well as hopes,they march em to battle. They tell them now to deal