OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. gaged to watch with the most vigilant attention over his ownbehaviour, and over that of his brethren, since, as he must expectto incur a part of the common disgraee, he may hope to enjoya share of the common reputation. When the Christians of Bi-thynia were brought before the tribunal of the younger Pliny, theyassured the proconsul, that far from being engaged in any unlawfulconspiracy, they were bound by a solemn obligation to abstain fromthe commission of those crimes which disturb the private or publicpeace of society, from theft, robbery, adultery, perjury, and frauds-Near a century afterwards, Tertullian, with an honest pride, couldboast, that very few Christians had suffered by the hand of theexecutioner except on account of their religion Their seriousand sequestered Use, averse to the gay luxury of the age, inured themto chastity, temperance, œconomy, and all the sober and domesticvirtues. As the greater number were of some trade or profession,it was incumbent on them, by the strictest integrity and the fairestdealing, to remove the suspicions which the prophane are too aptto conceive against the appearances of sanctity. The contemptof the world exercised them in the habits of humility, meekness,and patience. The more they were persecuted the more closelythey adhered to each other. Their mutual charity and unsuspectingconfidence has been remarked by infidels, and was too often abusedby perfidious friends 8*. It is a very honourable circumstance for the morals of the primi- Morality oftive Christians, that even their faults, or rather errors, were derived the sather5*from an excess of virtue. The bishops and doctors of the church,whose evidence attests, and whose authority might influence, theprofessions, the principles, and even the practice, of their con­temporaries, had studied the scriptures with less skill than devo­tion, and they often received, in the most literal sense, those rigidprecepts of Christ and the apostles, to which the prudence ofsucceeding commentators has applied a looser and more figurative Vol. I. Q^q q mode