OCR Output 234 LIVY. Romans placed their first-rank men behind the frontbattalions, consisting of the spearmen, and the veteransin reserve; posting the Italian cavalry on the rightwing, the Numidians and Masinissa on the left. Sy-phax and Hasdrubal, having placed their Numidiansopposite to the Italian cavalry, and the Carthaginiansopposite to Masinissa, drew the Celtiberians into thecentre of the line, facing the battalions of the legions:in this order they began the engagement. On the firstencounter both wings, Numidians and Carthaginians,were forced to give way: for neither could the Numi­dians, most of whom were undisciplined peasants, with­stand the Roman cavalry, nor the Carthaginians, whowere also raw soldiers, withstand Masinissa, who, be­sides other circumstances, was rendered terrible by hislate victory. The line of Celtiberians, (although, hav­ing lost the cover of the wings, they were exposed onboth flanks,) yet resolutely kept their ground ; for nei­ther could they see any safety in flight, being unac­quainted with the country, nor had they any hope ofpardon from Scipio, having come into Africa to fightagainst him for the sake of hire, notwithstanding thefavors which he had conferred on them and their na­tion. Surrounded therefore on all sides, they diedwith determined obstinacy, falling in heaps one overanother; and, while the attention of all was turned onthem, Syphax and Hasdrubal availed themselves ofthis opportunity, and gained a considerable space oftime to effect their escape. Night came on the con­querors, who were fatigued more with killing thanfrom the length of the contest. 9. Next day Scipio sent Latins and Masinissa, withall the Roman and Numidian cavalry, and the lightinfantry, in pursuit of Syphax and Hasdrubal. Hehimself, with the main body of the army, reduced allthe cities in that part of the country which belonged tothe Carthaginians, some by offering them hopes, othersby threats, others by force. At Carthage the conster­nation was excessive: they expected nothing less thanthat Scipio, who was extending his operations on every