OCR Output 58 2 THE DECLINE AND FALL End of thepersecutions. Probable ac­count of thesufferings ofthe martyrsand confes­sors. he obtained from the citizens of Tyre is still extant. He praisestheir zeal and devotion in terms of the highest satisfaction, descants onthe obstinate impiety of the Christians, and betrays, by the readinesswith which he consents to their banishment, that he considered him­self as receiving, rather than as conferring, an obligation. The priestsas well as the magistrates were empowered to enforce the executionof his edicts which were engraved on tables of brass; and though itwas recommended to them to avoid the effusion of blood, the mostcruel and ignominious punishments were inflicted on the refractoryChristians The Asiatic Christians had every thing to dread from the severityof a bigoted monarch, who prepared his measures of violence withsuch deliberate policy. But a few months had scarcely elapsed, be­fore the edicts publistied by the two western emperors obliged Maxi-min to suspend the prosecution of his designs: the civil war which heso rashly undertook against Licinius employed all his attention; andthe defeat and death of Maximin soon delivered the church from thelast and most implacable~of her enemies ,7<s. In this general view of the persecution, which was first authorizedby the edicts of Diodesian, I have purposely refrained from describ­ing the particular sufferings and deaths of the Christian martyrs. Itwould have been an easy task, from the history of Eusebius, fromthe declamations of Lactantius, and from the most ancient acts, tocollect a long series of horrid and disgustful pictures, and to fillmany pages with racks and scourges, with iron hooks, and red-hotbeds, and with all the variety of tortures which fire and steel, savagebeasts and more savage executioners, could inflict on the humanbody. These melancholy scenes might be enlivened by a crowd ofvisions and miracles destined either to delay the death, to celebratethe triumph, or to discover the relics of those canonized saints whosuffered for the name of Christ. But I cannot determine what I oughtto transcribe, till I am satisfied how much I ought to believe. The gravest