OCR Output C. VI.] TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. 191 <vere opposed to them when they made their excursions.These engines, that all the legions had ready prepared forthem, were admirably contrived; but still more extraordinaryones belonged to the tenth legion: those that threw dartsand those that threw stones were more forcible and largerthan the rest, by which they not only repelled the excur­sions of the Jews, but drove those away that were upon thewalls also. Now the stones that were cast were of the weightof a talent, and were carried two furlongs and farther. Theblow they gave was no way to be sustained, not only by thosethat stood first in the way, but by those that were beyondthem for a great space. As for the Jews, they at firstwatched the coming of the stone, for it was of a white color,and could, therefore, not only be perceived by the greatnoise it made, but could be seen also before it came by itsbrightness: accordingly, the watchmen that sat upon thetowers gave them notice when the engine was let go, and thestone came from it, and cried out aloud, in their own countrylanguage, The son cometh :' so those that were in its way 1 What should be the meaning of this signal or watehword, when thewatchmen saw a stone coming from the engine, The son cometh, or whatmistake there is in the reading, I cannot tell. The MSS., both Greek andLatin, all agree in this reading; and I cannot approve of any groundlessconjectural alteration of the text from nos to ios, that not the son or astone, but that the arrow or dart cometh; as hath been made by Dr. Hudson,and not corrected by Havercamp. Had Joscphus written even his firstedition of these books of the war in pure Hebrew, or had the Jews thenused the pure Hebrew at Jerusalem, the Hebrew word for a son is so likethat for a stone, Ben and Eben, that such a correction might have been moreeasily admitted. But Josephus wrote his former edition for the use of theJews beyond Euphrates, and so in the Chaldee language, as he did thissecond edition in the Greek language: and Bar was the Chaldee word forson, instead of the Hebrew Ben, and was used not only in Chaldea, &c,but in Judca also, as the New Testament informs us. Dio also lets us knowthat the very Romans at Rome pronounced the name of Simon, the son ofGioras, Bar Boras for Bar Gioras, as we learn from Xiphiline, p. 217.lleland takes notice, "That many will here look for a mystery, as thoughthe meaning were that the Son of God came now to take vengeance on thesins of the Jewish nation," which is, indeed, the truth of the fact, buthardly what the Jews could now mean; unless, possibly by way of derisionof Christ's threatenings so often made, that he would come at the head ofthe Roman army for their destruction But even this interpretation has