OCR Output THIRD VOLUME. 34a is possible to his nature, into a plantal condition of being, into abeautiful but transient flower; that is, into a corporeal life,or a life totally consisting in the mere energies of nature.So that Narcissus is tlie image of a foul converting herself tophantasy, and through this becoming drawn under the dominionof fense. But it is here necessary to observe, that the death of Narcissusis related by Plotinus and the anonymous author De Incredibi-libus in Gale's Qpufcula in a manner different from that of Ovid.For according to them Narcissus merged himself into the stream,through endeavouring to embrace his shadow, and disappeared.The fable however is extremely beautiful, whether we considerNarcissus as changed into a flower or suffocated in the stream:"For (says Plotinus, Ennead. I. lib. vi.) as he in the fable, whoby catching at his' shadow merged himself in the stream anddisappeared, so he who is captivated by beautiful bodies, anddoes not depart from their embrace, is precipitated not with hisbody but with his foul into a darkness profound and horrid tointellect, through which becoming blind both here and in Hades,he converses with nothing but shadows." Page 72. As Jbe was playing and gathering jtoivers.~\ Forthe meaning of this part of the fable respecting Proserpine, secmy Dissertation on the Ehiifinian and Bacchic Mjjleriet. Page 76. Tirefias.~\ What are we to understand by Tiresiatbecoming blind, through beholding Minerva? Certainly, thatby a profound conversion of the eye of his foul to divine -wisdomhe became abstracted from corporeal vision; and thus, by leadinga life separate from sensible inspection, was fabled to be corpo­really blind. Hence Tiresias is said by Homer, Odyss. 10.ver. 493, &c. to be the only wise person in Hades, and to pos­sess intellect though dead, through Proserpine, while the otherinhabitants of Hades arc nothing more than flying shadows.For it may be truly asserted of such a one, both in the presentlife and hereafter, that he alone is wise and endued with intellect, when v