OCR Output THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768. barked the second and the fourteenth legions, and putthem under the command of Publius Vitellius, withdirections to pursue their way over land. Vitelliushad at first a dry shore; but the wind blowing hardfrom the north, and the waves, usual at the equinox,rolling witli a prodigious swell, the soldiers were car­ried away by the torrrent. The country was laid un­der water. The sea, the shore, and the fields pre­sented one vast expanse. The depths and shallows,the quicksands and the solid ground, were no moredistinguished. The men were overwhelmed by thewaves, and absorbed by the eddies. Horses, baggage,and dead bodies, were seen floating together. Thecompanies of the legions were mixed in wild confu­sion, sometimes breast-high in water, and often deeper.Numbers were carried off by the flood, and lost forever. Exhortations and mutual encouragement wereof no avail. Valour and cowardice, prudence andtemerity, wisdom and folly, perished without distinc­tion. Vitellius at length gained an eminence, anddrew the legions after him. The night was passed inthe utmost distress; without fire, without utensils;many of the soldiers naked; the greatest part wounded,and ail in a condition worse than the horrors of asiege. When the enemy is at the gates, an honour­able death still remains; but here their fate waswretched and inglorious. The return of day presenteda new face of things: the waters subsided, and the landappeared. The general pursued his march to the riverUnsingis, where Germanicus was arrived withhis fleet.The two legions were taken on board. A report oftheir total loss was spread far and wide, and evoryday gained credit, till their safe return with Germa­nicus proved the whole to be a false alarm. LXXI. Meanwhile Stertinius, who had been de­spatched to receive the surrender of Segimer, the brothef of Segestes, conducted that chief, together withhis son, to the city of the Ubians. A free pardon wasgranted to both: to Segimer, without hesitation: tothe son, who was known to have offered indignitiesto the body of Varus, not without some delay. Gaul,Spain, and Italy, seemed to vie with each other in