OCR Output LIVY. disdain to admit us into the number of priests. Webring with us numerous honors; all those honors in­deed which have rendered your party so proud. Lu­cius Sextius was the first consul chosen out of theplebeians; Caius Licinius Stolo the first master of thehorse; Caius Marcius Rutilus the first dictator, andlikewise censor ; Quintus Publilius Philo the first pre-tor. On every one of these occasions was heard a re­petition of the same arguments: that the right of aus­pices was vested in you ; that you alone had the rightsof ancestry ; that you alone were legally intitled to thesupreme command, and the auspices both in peace andwar. The supreme command has hitherto been, andwill continue to be, equally prosperous in plebeianhands as in patrician. Have you never heard it saidthat the first created patricians were not men sent downfrom heaven, but such as could cite their fathers, thatis, nothing more than free born. I can now cite myfather, a consul; and my son will be able to cite agrandfather. Citizens, their opposition means nothingelse than that we should never obtain any thing with­out a previous refusal. The patricians wish only for adispute; nor do they care what issue their disputesmay have. For my part, be it advantageous, happy,and prosperous to you and to the commonwealth, lamdf opinion that this law should receive your sanction.' 9. The people ordered that the tribes should be in­stantly called; and there was every appearance thatthe law would be accepted. It was deferred howeverfor that day by a protest, from which on the day fol­lowing the tribunes were deterred; and it passed withthe approbation of a vast majority. The pontiffs createdwere Publius Decius Mus, the advocate for the law ;Publius Sempronius Sophus, Caius Marcius Rutilus,and Marcus Livius Deuter. The five augurs, whowere also plebeians, were, Caius Genucius, PubliusjElius Paetus, Marcus Minucius Fessus, Caius Mar­cius, and Titus Publilius. Thus the number of thepontiffs was made eight; that of the augurs nine. Inthe same year Marcus Valerius, consul, procured a I