OCR Output 380 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. cees are those that compose the second order, and take awayfate' entirel) , and suppose that God is not concerned in our do­ing or not doing what is evil; and they say, that to act what isgood, or what is evil, is at men's own choice, and that the oneor the other belongs so to every one, that they may act as theyplease. They also take away the belief of the immortal dura-tion of the soul, and the punishments and rewards in Hades.Moreover, the Pharisees are friendly to one another, and are forthe exercise of concord, and regard for the public; but the be­haviour of the Sadducees one towards another is in some degreewild, and their conversation with those that are of their ownparty is as barbarous as if they were strangers to them. Andthis is what 1 had to say concerning the philosophic sects amongthe Jews, CHAP. IX. The death of Salome. The cities which Herod and Philip built.Pilate occasions disturbances. Tiberius puts Agrippa intobonds, but Cains frees him from them, and makes him king.Herod Antipas is banished. § 1. A ND now as the ethnarchy of Archelaus was fallen in-JT\. to a Roman province, the other sons of Herod, Philip,and that Herod who was called Antipas, each of them took uponthem the administration of their own tetrarchies; for when Sa­lome died, she bequeathed to Julia, the wife of Augustus, bothher toparchy, and Jamnia, as also her plantation of palm-treesthat were in Phasaelis *. But when the Roman empire wastranslated to Tiberius, the son of Julia, upon the death of Au­gustus, who had reigned fifty-seven years six months and two days, been virtuous or vicious in the present world; that to the bad is allotted an eternalprison, but that the good are permitted to live again in this world, are nearly agree.?ble to the doctrines of Christianity. Only Josephus's rejection of the return ofthe wicked into other bodies, or into this world, which he grants to the good, looks?omewhat like a contradiction to St Paul's account of the doctrine of the Jews,that " they themselves a] lowed that there should be a resurrection of the dead, both" of the just and ui'just," Acts ch. xxiv. (5. Yet because Josephus's account isthat of the Pharisees, and St Paui'i that of t>,e Jews in general, and of himself, theContradiction is not very certain. * We have here, in that Greek MS. which was once Alexander Petavius's, butis now in the lib:ary at I'erden, two most remarkable additions to the commonCopies, though deemed worth little remark by the editor; which, upon the mentionof Tiberius's coming to the empire, inserts first the famous testimony of Josephuscorcerning Jesus Christ, as it stands verbatim in the Antiquities, B- XVIII' chap'iii. § 3' vol' III. with some parts of that excellent discourse or homily of Jojephusconcerning Hades, annexed to the work. But, what is here principally to be looted,is this, that in this homily, Josephus, having just mentioned Christ, a> " God tl.e' Word, and the Judge of the world, appointed by the Father," &c adds' ThatI* he had himself elsewhere spoken about him more nicely or particularly."