OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 401 cause of his odious brother; the exiles of every pro- chap. XL. vince were assembled in Tauris ; and Bardanes, underthe name of Philippicus, was invested with the purple.The imperial troops, unwilling and unable to perpe­trate the revenge of Justinian, escaped his displeasureby abjuring his allegiance: the fleet, under their newsovereign, steered back, a more auspicious course,to the harbours of Sinope and Constantinople; andevery tongue was prompt to pronounce, every handto execute, the death of the tyrant. Destitute offriends, he was deserted by his Barbarian guards ; andthe stroke of the assassin was praised, as an act ofpatriotism and Roman virtue. His son Tiberius hadtaken refuge in a church: his aged grandmotherguarded the door; and the innocent youth embracedthe altar. But popular fury is deaf to the cries of hu­manity; and the race of Heraclius was extinguished,after a reign of one hundred years. During * the distracted government of the second Conquest t • • i n • i.-i/*iof Aft'03 l>y Justinian, the Eastern empire was deprived of thetheSara-dominion of that part of Africa which had been con- a"d.647—quered by the arms of the first emperor of that name.709-In the year 647, the Saracens, by the order of thecaliph Othman, marched from Egypt to the west­ward, and advanced to the walls of Tripoli, underthe command of Abdallah. The city was courage­ously defended; and the approach of the prefectGregory with a powerful army induced the Saracensto raise the siege. Several bloody engagements en­sued, in the last of which Gregory was slain, andthe Saracens were victorious; but their losses, fa­tigues, and an epidemical disease, prevented themfrom making any permanent establishment, and Ab- * My conquest of Africa is drawn from two French interpreters of Arabicliterature, Cardonne (Hist. de l'Afrique et de l'Espagne sous la domination desArabcs, tom. i. p. 8—5.')), and Otter (Hist. de I'Academie des Inscriptions, tom.xxi. pp. 111 — 125, and 1 3G). They derive their principal information from No.vairi, who composed, A. D. 1331, an Encyclopedia, in more than twenty volumes. VOL. IV. U D /