OCR Output 94 LIVY. lighted, might be seen from afar. He fixed a beaconon Tisaeum, a mountain whose summit is of an immenseheight, that, by means of lights on these eminences,whenever the enemy made any attempt, he might,though distant, receive instant intelligence of it. TheRoman general and king Attalus passed over from Pe-parethus to Nicaea, and from thence sailed to the cityof Orcus, which is the first city of Euboea on the left,on the way from the bay of Demetrias to Chalcis andthe Euripus. 6. It was concerted between Attalus and Sulpiciusthat the Romans should assault the town on the sidenext the sea, and at the same time make an attack onthe king's forces on the land side. Four days afterthe arrival of the fleet the operations began. The in­termediate time had been spent in private conferenceswith Plator, who had been appointed by Philip to thecommand of the place. There are two citadels, onehanging over the coast, the other in the middle of thetown, and from this there is a subterraneous passageto the ocean, the entrance of which, next to the sea, iscovered with a strong fortification, a tower five storiesin height. Here the contest first commenced, and thatwith the utmost violence, the tower being well storedwith all kinds of weapons; these, with engines andmachines for the assault, having been landed from theships. While the attention and eyes of all were drawnto that side, Plator, opening one of the gates, receivedthe Romans into the citadel next the sea, of whichthey became masters in a moment. The inhabitants,driven thence, fled to the other citadel in the middleof the city; but troops had been posted there to keepthe gates shut against them; so that, being thus ex­cluded and surrounded, they were all either slain ortaken prisoners. In the mean time, the Macedoniangarrison making no resistance, stood in a compact bodyunder the walls. These men Plator (having obtainedleave from Sulpicius) embarked in some ships, andlanded them at Demetrias in Phthiotis; he himselfwithdrew to Attalus. Sulpicius, elated by his success