OCR Output LAMPSUS. LANGOBARDI. 119 Enapon to seize the citadel, and thereby to make him­self tyrant, seems to belong to the same period.(Athen. xi. p. 508.) After the battle of Mycale, inb. c. 479, T ■nipwtmi joined Athena, but revoltedafter the failure of the great Athenian expedition toSicily; being, however, unfortified, it was easily re­conquered by a fleet under Strombichidea. (Thuc.riii. 62.) After the time of Alexander the Great,the Lampsaceni had to defend their city against theattacks of Antiocbus of Syria; they voted a crowno( gold to the Romans, and were received by thema$ allies. (Liv. xxxiii. 38, xxxv. 42, xliii. 6; Polyb.xxi. 10.) In the time of Strabo, Lampsacns wasstill a flourishing city. It was the birthplace ofmany distinguished authors and philosophers, sucliB Chimn the historian, Anaximenes the orator, andMetrodorus the disciple of Epicurus, who himselfresided there for many years, and reckoned some ofits citizens among his intimate friends. (Strab. /. c.;Ding. Laert. x. 11.) Lampsacus possessed a finestitue by Lysippus, representing a prostrate lion,bat it was removed by Agrippa to Home to adornthe Campos Martius. (Strab. /. c.) Lampsacus, asit well known, was the chief seat of the obsceneworship of Priapos, who was believed to have beenborn there of Aphrodite. (Athen. i. p. 30; Paus.ix. 31. § 2; Apollon. Rhod. i. 983; Ov. Fast, vi.345; Virg. Gtorg. iv. 110.) From this circum--tar.ce the whole district was believed to have de­rived the name of Abarnis or Aparnis (airapvtia-$ai)t■-■ aose Aphrodite denied that she had given birthto him. (Theophr. Hist Plant i. 6, 13.) The an­cient name of the district had been Bebrycia, pro­bably from the Thracian Bebryces, who had settledthere. (Comp. Hecat. Fragm, 207; Charon, Fragm.115,119; Xenoph. Anal. vii. 8. § 1; Polyb. v. 77;Pint iv. 18, v. 40; Ptol v. 2. § 2; Steph. B. *. v.)Th« name of Lammki is still attached to a smalltown, near which Lampsacns probably stood, asl.aruati itself contains no remains of antiquity.There are gold and silver staters of Lampsacns inftifferent collections; the imperial coins have beentriced from Augustus to Gallienus. (Sestini, Mon.V*tp.73.) [L.S.] coin or uudrsAcus. LAMPSUS, a town of Histiaeotis in Thessaly, onthe borders of Athamania. (Liv. xxxii. 14.) LAMPTRA. [Attica, p. 331, a.] LAMUS (Actios), a village of Cilicia, at theBooth of the river Lamus, from which the whole^strict derived the name of Lamotis. The rivera mentioned by Stephanas B. (from AlexanderPo^htftor), and both the river and the village byStrabo (xiv. p. 671) and Ptolemy (v. 8. §§4,6).The river, which is otherwise of no importance,twn*d the boundary between Cilicia Aspera andCilicia Propria, and still bears the name of Lamas or£«iaa>. About the village of Lamus no particulars*re known. (Comp. Nonnus, Dionys. xxiv. 50;&**!. p. 709.) \h S-] LAMYRON (Aay.vpwv), a great harbour nearCape Heraclium, on the coast of Pontus, not farfrom Themiscvra. (Anonym. Peripl. Pont. Eux.p. 10.) [L.S.] LANCE (Kin. Ant. p. 395), or LA'NCIA (Aa-y-xia, Dion Cass. liii. 25,29; Flor. iv. 12; Oros.vi. 21), or LANCIATUM (AccydaTO.-, Ptol. ii. 6.§ 29), the chief city of the Lanceati (Aa-yitlaToi,Ptol. I. c.) or Lanciknses (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4), a tribeof the Astures, in Hispania Tarraconensis. It wasstrongly fortified, and was the most important cityof that region, even more so than Leoio VII. Ge-mina, at least before the settlement of the latter bythe Romans, by whom Lancia was destroyed, thoughit was again restored. It lay on the high road fromCaesaraugusta to Legio VII. (Leon), only 9 M. P.from the latter, where its name is still to be tracedin that of Sollanco or Si,Ilancia. (Floral, Esp. S.vol. xvi. p. 16; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 441.) [P. S.] LA'NCIA, LANCIA'TI, LANCIA'TUM. [L.VNCK.] LA'NCIA OPPIDA'NA. [Vettoses.] LANCIENSES. [Lanck.] LANCIENSES OCELENSES or TRANSCU-DANI. [Ocki.um.] LANGOBAKDI, LONGOBARDI (Aaryo&v5o.,Ao77oSap5o(, also AayyoSdpSai and Aoyyo6,dp&'ai),a tribe of Germans wliom we first meet with in theplain, south of the lower Elbe, and who belonged tothe Suevi (Strab. vii. p. 290, where Kramer readsAayi<66ap$oi; Ptol. ii. 11. §§9, 17). According toPaulus Diaconus, himself a Langobard, or Lombard(Hist Longob. i. 3,8; comp. Isidor. Orig. ix. 2;Elgin. M. s. v. ffvuov), the tribe derived its namefrom the long beards, by which they distinguishedthemselves from the other Germans, who generallyshaved their beards. But it seems to be more pro­bable that they derived the name from the countrythey inhabited on the banks of the Elbe, whereBbrde (or Bord) still signifies "a fertile plain by theside of a river;" and a district near Magdtburg iastill called the lange Bvrde (Wilhelm, Germanieti,p. 286). According to this, Langobardi would sig ■nify "inhabitants of the long bord of the river."The district in which we first meet with them, i»the left bank of the Elbe, from the point where theSala empties itself into it, to the frontiers of theChanci Minores, so that they were bounded in thenorth by the Elbe, in the east by the Semnones, inthe south by the Cherusci, and in the west by theFosi and Angrivarii. Traces of the name of theLangobardi still occur in that country in such namesas Bardengau, Bardeaik. The earliest writer whomentions the Langobardi as inhabiting those parts,is Velleius Patcrculus (ii. 106). But not* ithstandingthe unanimous testimony of the ancients that theywere a branch of the Suevi, their own historian(Paul. Diac. I c.; comp. Euseb. Chron. ad an. 380)states that the Langobardi originally did not inhabitany part of Germany, but had migrated south fromScandinavia, where they had borne the name ofVinili. and that they assumed the name Langobardiafter their arrival in Germany. It is impossible tosay what value is to be attributed to this statement,which has found as many advocates as it has hadopponents. From Strabo (/. c.) it is clear that theyoccupied the northern bank of the Elbe, and it ispossible that they were among those Germans whomTiberius, in the reign of Augustus drove across theElbe (Suet. Aug. 21). In their new country theywere soon reduced to submission bv Maroboduus, but I 4