OCR Output PHRYGIA. 621 THKYG1A. i' -tm ssttW in Asia; for the Phrygians are not»i ircxmudlr »pnktn of in the Homeric poems (//.iW, ii. I8J, x. 441, xtI 717, xxiv. 535), butr> .famCr admitted to be one of the most ancient■« r» a .iu Minor (see the story in Herod, ii. 2),uti Uwr, w nther a portion of them, must ati- ■*« hire mirrated into Europe; so that in onr:r»: :rei Uk account of their migrations has been-r rwi, w ii manv other cases, The geographicalf»i>c if lbs Phrygians points to the highlands ofIran* ai the kind of their first abode, and the:»unstop brlwtM the Phrygians and Armenians■ t'tsbi by vmm singular coincidences. In theii' '/.Vents these two nations appear under one"Tzander and using the same armour; andiWti»(tiL 7.1) adds the remark that the Ar-»a» «w( the descendants of the Phrygians,lataai (op. Sbpk, B. a. v. 'Apuf via, and EusUUh.«7v« /'jr. 694) mentions the same circumstance,ill fvrwrer alludes to a similarity in the Un-aaf» <f the two peoples. Both are said to haven-i • subterraneous habitations (Vitruv. ii. 1;bvjA Amai. jr. 5. § 25; Diod. xiv. 28); and thei--< «f both, lastly, are used as synonyms.fuel Crate. Omn. ir. p. 257, eil. Cramer.) toe* circumstances it is impossible not to»» te the conclusion that the Phrygians wereawniass; though here, again, the account of their-,-»!»« hi been rerersed, the Armenians notr-i iocrodfd from the Phrygians, but the Pbry-fam the Armenians. The time when theyawJtd nwn the Armenian highlands cannot 1*ir-i.;w»l, and unquestionably belongs to the re-««t «». fur the Phrygians are described as theu mm inhabitants of Asia Minor. (Paus. i.Lfz:Csndian, ta Entrap, ii. 251,&c.; Appulei.awa. ti p. 762, ed. Oud.) The Phrygian legends4 fiwtf duod, connected with king Annacus orm>. alw are very significant. This king re->4 « lrorium, the moat eastern city of Phrygia; ku death, at the age of 300 years, a great•S Jwrabclmed the country, as bail been foretoldu axinl oracle. (Zo*im. vi. 10; Suid. s. r.■ww; Steph B. /. r. 'Isrdnoi'; comp. Or. Met. ■ ^i'v sir.) Phrygia is said to have first risen ■ •> firtl, and the ark ami Mount Ararat are£ »i in connection with the Phrygian town ofw*-l*. fail Phrygians are said to» '.be first to adopt idolatry. (Orac. Sibyll.*> Hi, 366, rii. 12—15.) The influence of'41 Testament upon these traditions is unniis-*»- kn the identity of the Phrygians and Ar-*" a thereby nevertheless confirmed. AnotherE*^i to faronr of our supposition mny be de-I trm taw architectural remains which havei ujn-.fred in modern times, and are scarcely■4 at aD by the ancient writers. Vitruviusl)t»»srk«. that the Phrygians hollowed out therw hilia uf their country, and formed in thema^i aa4 moms for habitations, so far as the"« the hills permitted. This statement is'i3» rearmed by modern travellers, who liure4 ■-» s habitations cut into rocks in almost all • * la* Astatic peninsula. (Hamilton, Re-•*» i p. 2iO. 288; Texier, Description de * slm^urr, i. p. 210, who describes an immense'fnroed oot of the natural ruck.) A few arrhitactural monuments are adomed with■* •» x Phrygian. (Texier and Stenart. A"»'•» »/ itrmt nncirnt Monuments tcilh In-r*"» atitf existing in Lydut and I'hryijia, London, 1842.) These inscriptions most bo ofPhrygian origin, as is attested by such proper namesas Midas, Ate*, Aregastes, and others, which occurin them, though some have unsuccessfully attemptedto make out that they are Greek. The impressionwhich these stupendous works, and above all therock-city, make upon the beholder, is that he has be­fore him works executed by human hands at a mostremote period, not, as Vitruvius intimates, becausethere was a want of timber, but because the firstrobust inhabitants thought it safest and most con­venient to construct such habitations for themselves.They do not contain the slightest trace of a resem­blance with Greek or Roman structures; but whilevre assert this, it cannot be denied, on the otherhand, that they display a striking resemblance tothose structures which in Greece we are in thehabit of calling Pelasgian or Cyclopian, whenceTexier designates the above mentioned rock-city(near Boghagldeui, between the Hairs and Iris) bythe name of a Pelasgian city. (Comp. Hamilton,Researches, i. pp. 48, 490, ii. pp. 226, &c, 209.)Even the lion gate of Mycenae reappears in severalplaces. (Ainsworth, Travels and Researches, ii.p. 58; Leake, Asia Motor, p. 28.) These factsthrow a surprising light upon the legend about themigration of the Phrygian Pelops into Argolis, andthe tombs of the Phrygians in Peloponnesus, men­tioned by Athenaeus (xiv. p. 625). But yet muchremains to be done by more systematic exploration ofthe countries in Asia Minor, and by the interpreta­tion of their monuments. One conclusion, however,can even now be arrived at, viz. that there must havebeen a time when the race of the Phrygians formed,if not the sole population of Asia Minor, at leastby far the most important, bordering in the east untheir kinsmen, the Armenians, and in the south­east on tribes of the Semitic race. This conclusionis supported by many facts derived from ancientwriters. Independently of several Greek and Trojanlegends referring to the southern coasts of AsiaMinor, the name of the Phrygian mountain Olympusalso occurs in Cilicia and Lycia; the north ofBithynia was in earlier times called Bebrycia, andthe town of Otroin on the Ascanian lake reminds nsof the Phrygian chief Otreus. (Horn. It iii. 186.)In the west of Asia Minor, the country about MountSipylus was once occupied by Phrygians (Strab. xii. p. 571): the Trojan Thebe also bore the nameMygdonia, which is synonymous with Phrygia (Strub. xiii. p. 588); Mygdonians are mentioned in theneighbourhood of Miletus (Aelian, V. H. viii. 5);and Polyaenus (Strateg. viii. 37) relates that theBcbryces, in conjunction with the Phocaeans, carriedon war against the neighbouring barbarians. From all this we infer that Trojans, Mysians,Maeonians, Mygdonians, anil Dolionians were allbranches of the great Phrygian race. In the Iliadthe Trojans and Phrygians appear in the closestrelation, for Hecuba is a Phrygian princess (xvi.718), Priam is the ally of the Phrygian* agsinstthe Amazons (iii. 184, &c), the name Hector issaid to be Phrygian (Hesych. s. r. Aaoeios), andthe names Paris and Scamandrius seem likewise tobe Phrygian for the Greek Alexander and A-tya-nax. It is also wi-ll known that both the Greekand Roman poets use the names Trojan and Phry­gian as synonyms. From the Homeric hymn onAphrodite (113) it might be inferred that Trojansand Phrygians sjwke different languages; but that]«ssnge is equally clear, if it is taken as alluding