OCR Output ■41$ DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. ter took refuge in the dominions of their ally; and themarriage was consummated in the palace of Verona. Atthe end of one year, it was dissolved by the death of Au-tharis: but the virtues of Theudelinda" had endeared herto the nation, and she was permitted to bestow, with herhand, the sceptre of the Italian kingdom,covern- From this fact, as well as from similar events,' it is eer-tain that the Lombards possessed freedom to elect theirsovereign, and sense to decline the frequent use of thatdangerous privilege. The public revenue arose fromthe produce of land, and the profits of justice. Whenthe independent dukes agreed that Autharis should as­cend the throne of his father, they endowed the regaloffice with a fair moiety of their respective domains. Theproudest nobles aspired to the honours of servitude nearthe person of their prince: he rewarded the fidelity of hisVassals by the precarious gift of pensions and benefices; andatoned for the injuries of war, by the rich foundation ofmonasteries and churches. In peace a j udge, a leader inWar, he never usurped the powers of a sole and absolutelegislator. The king of Italy convened the national as­semblies in the palace, or more probably in the fields ofPavia: his great council was composed of the personsmost eminent by their birth and dignities: but the valid­ity, as well as the execution, of their decrees, dependedon the approbation of the faithful people, the fortunatearmy of the Lombards. About fourscore years after theconquest of Italy, their traditional customs were trans­cribed in Teutonic Latin/ and ratified by the consenttaws, of the prince and people: some new regulations werea.j). 643, introduce^ m0re suitable to their present condition; theexample of Rotharis was imitated by the wisest of his • Giannone (Istoria Civile de Napoli, tom. 1. p. 263.) baa justly censured the im­pertinence of Boccaccio, (Gio. 3. Novel. 2.) who, without right, or truth, or pretence,has given the pious queen Theudelinda to the■ arius of a muleteer. 'Paul, lib. 3. c 16. The first dissertations of Muratorj, and the first volume ofGianhone's history, may be consulted for the state of the kingdom of Italy. * The most accurate edition of the laws of the Lomhards is to be found in theScriptores Rerum Italicarum, toni. 1. part. 2. p. 1—181. collated from the most an­cient MSS. and illustrated by the critical notes of Mnratori.