OCR Output 354 Book I . WARS OF THE JEWS. whose command they had done it, they replied, at the commandof the law of their country; and when he farther asked them,how they could be so joyful when they were to be put todeath,they replied,* Because they should enjoy greater happiness afterthey were dead. 4. At this the king was in such an extravagant passion, thathe overcame his disease [for the time], and went out, and spaketo the people; wherein he made a terrible accusation againstthose men, as being guilty of sacrilege, and as making greaterattempts under pretence of their law, and he thought they de­served to be punished as impious persons. Whereupon the peo­ple were afraid lest a great number should be found guilty, anddesired that when he had first punished those that put them uponthis work, and then those that were caught in it, he would leaveoff his anger as to the rest. With this the king con -plied, thoughriot without difficulty, and ordered those that had let themselvesdown, together with their Rabbins, to be burnt alive, but deli­vered the rest that were caught to the proper officers to be putto death by them/ 5. After this, the distemper seized upon his whole body, andgreatly disordered all its parts with various symptoms; for therewas a gentle fever upon him, and an intolerable itching over allthe surface of his body, and continual pains in his colon, anddropsical tumours about his feet, and an inflammation of the ab­domen, and a putrefaction of his privy member, that producedworms. Besides which, he had a difficulty of breathing uponhim, and could not breathe but when he sat upright, and had a convulsion * Since in these two sections we hare an evident account of the Jewish opinion*in the days of Josephui, about a future happy state, and the resurrection of thedead, as in the New Testament, John xi. 24.1 shall-here refer to to the other placetin Josephus, before he became a Catholic Christian, which concern the same mat­ters. Of the War, B. II. ch viii sect 10, 11. B. III. ch viii. sect. 4. Voi. III.B. VII. ch. vi. sect. 7. Contr. Apion, B. II. sect 30. Vol. III. where we mayobserve, that none of these passages are in his Books of Antiquities, written pecu­liarly for the a'e of the Gentiles, to whom he thought it not proper to insist ont opics so much out of their way as these were. Nor is this observation to be omit­ted here, especially on account of the sensible difference we have now before us iaJosephus's representation of the arguments used by-the Rabbins to persuade theirscholars to hazard their lives for the vindication of God's law, against images, byMoses, as well as of the answers those scholars made to Herod, when they Werecaught, and ready to die for the same ; I mean as)compared with the parallel ar­gument- and answers represented in the Antiquities, B. XVII. ch. vi. sect, a, 3.Vol. III. A like difference between Jewish and Gentile notions, the reader willfind in my notes on Antiquities, B III. ch. vii. sect. J. Vol. I. B. XV. ch. be.*ect. t. Vol II. See the like also in the case of the three Jewish sects in the Anti­quities, B XIII. ch. v. sect 9. and ch. x. sect. 4, and 5. Vol. II. book XVIII. ch. i.sect. .t. Vol. III. and compared with this in his Wars of. the Jews B II. ch. viii.sect, x—14. Vol. III. Nor does St Paul himself reason to Gentiles at Athens',Acts xvii. 16, 34. as he does to Jews in his epistles.