OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. removed by his order from the pedestal where itXVL stood before the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis,was floated down the Nile to Alexandria. Thedeath of Constantine suspended the execution of hispurpose, and this obelisk was destined by his son tothe ancient capital of the empire. A vessel of un­common strength and capaciousness was provided to'convey this enormous weight of granite, at least ahundred and fifteen feet in length, from the banksof the Nile to those of the Tyber. The obelisk ofConstantius was landed about three miles from thecity, and elevated, by the efforts of art and labour,in the great Circus of Rome *.lianand" ^ne departure of Constantius from Rome wasSarmatian hastened by the alarming intelligence of the distressASrb.357, and danger of the Illyrian provinces. The distrac-358, 359, tions of civil war, and the irreparable loss which theRoman legions had sustained in the battle of Mursa,exposed those countries, almost without defence, tothe light cavalry of the Barbarians; and particularlyto the inroads of the Quadi, a fierce and powerfulnation, who seem to have exchanged the institutionsof Germany for the arms and military arts of theirSarmatian allies f. The garrisons of the frontierwere insufficient to check their progress; and theindolent monarch was at length compelled to assem­ble, from the extremities of his dominions, theflower of the Palatine troops, to take the field inperson, and to employ a whole campaign, with thepreceding autumn and the ensuing spring, in theserious prosecution of the war. The emperor passedthe Danube on a bridge of boats, cut in pieces all * SeeDonaL Roma Antiqua. L. iii. c. 14. 1. iv. c. 12. and the learned, thoughconfused, Dissertation of Barg:eus on Obelisks, inserted in the fourth volume ofGraevius's Roman Antiquities, p. 1897—1930. This Dissertation is dedicatedto Pope Sixtus V. who erected the obelisk of Constantius in the square before thepatriarchal church of St. John Lateran. .(• The events of this Quadian and Sarmatian war are related by Ammianus,xvi. 10. xvii. 12, 13. xix. 11.