OCR Output XORICUM. 447 Nonicujr. tptilJtbi Tmrisci in Xoricum, which provincem t» km faired its name from it. The townnunatatt little to the south of the river Murius, - :ie nad from Yirunum to Ovilaba, and formed ■ mini print of the traffic in gold and irono N neon: for in its neighbourhood a considerablec-jtiiit <i jrokl and iron was obtained. (Strab. v.y M. W. PaU.) The place is celebrated inbas* ■ account of the defeat there sustained, int' I!J. bj Co. Carbo against the Cimbri, and onrmu of ill iiere bj the Boii about B. c. 69.(SnaU: Ur.EpiL lib. liiii.; Caes. B. G. i. 5.)fa' (iii. 23) mentions Norcia among the towns■i.-i W perished in his time; but this must be asaak», it SureU is still mentioned in the Peutin-r- ir. Table, or dee Plin j confounds this place withavLirefine same name. The sito of the ancientinu ii no* oecapied bj the town of Xeuntark inarm (kVhar, Soriemn, i. p. 271.) [L. S.] WWO'tK (Xoricus ager, Nataia-oV), a country• «ata of the Danube, bordering in the west ■ > *u and VindelicU, from which it was sepa- lie rirer A en us; in the north the Danube">1 it from Germania Magna; in the east itMrni an pannonia, the sluns Cestius forming thei'.-ii.'T. sad in the south on Pannnnia and Italy, «biti it was divided by the river Savns, theay Camion, and mount Ocra. It accordingly•»?n»rf the modem Upper and Lower Austria,«g"a Ua im and the Danube, the greater part offenalata, and portions of Carnioia, Bacaria,Wans the lerritory of Sabbvg. (Ptol. ii. 13.) ■ tan Naricnm.is traced by some to Norix, a ■ 4 Hercules, bat was in ail probability derived« .Yens, the capital of the country. Nearly theay* 'i .Veicun b a mountainous country, beingtsrwdci in most parts by mountains, sending»»> affirtVitina into Xoricum; while an Alpine called the Alpes Koricae, traverse the wholeo«atrr is the direction from west to east.^ onptioo of tbe nortii and south, Noricumft on*i_T pUios. but numerous valleys and*v utter of which are all tributaries of theMl The climate was on tbe wliole rough andHad tbe fertility of the soil was not very great;la u« plains, at a distance from the Alps, the■•arrf tot country was different and its fertility(lad. Grig, jut. 4.) It is probable that ■ taut, by draining marshes and rooting out■tt. ual mud) to increase the productivenessllfcf (wntry. (Comp. CUudian, BelL Get. 365.)P tin pmt wealth of Noricum consisted in «f*ld and iron. (Strab.iv. pp.208,214;L xi». 711, Ac.; Piin. xxxiv. 41: Sidon.f- T- SI.) The Alpes Noricae still containtraces of the mining activity displayed by* I ■ m ibose parts. Norican iron and steelB nsUMiluil in ancient tiroes as they still are. Ala- Stnm. L p. 307; Horat. Curm, i. 16.^ xni. 71; Martial, it. 55. 12; Rutil. /tin.■Lfce.) Tne produce of the Norican iron mines•1 ■ saw been sufficient to supply the material** aBaafactanes of arms in Pannonia, Moesia,>a*tsn Italy, which owed their origiu to the'* .i < t Noricum. '1 here arc aUo•/...=.« trim tin- R.in.mii were nut un-with the salt in which the country■**», snd the plant culled Saliunca, which■ft «*-^sntIy in the Alpes Noricae, was well■* * the Bocnans, and used by them as a{Van. xxi. 2a) The inhabitants of Noricum, called by the generalname Norici (Nvpttcoi, Plin. iii. 23; Polyb. xxxiv.10; Strab. iv. pp. 206, 208), were a Celtic raco(Strab. vii. pp. 293, 296), whose ancient name wasTaurisci (Plin. iii. 24.) The Celtic character ofthe people is sufficiently attested also by the namesof several Norican tribes and towns. About theyear b. c. 58, the Boii, a kindred race, emigratedfrom Boiohemum and settled in the northern partof Noricum (Caes. B. G. i. 5). Strabo (v. p. 213)describes these Boii as having come from the northof Italy. They had resisted the Cimbri and Teu-tones, but were afterwards completely annihilatedby the Getae, and their country became a desert.Ptolemy does not mention either the Norici or theBoii, but enumerates several smaller tribes, such asthe Sevaces (SeoyaM?) in the west, the Alauni orHalauni ('AAawof) in the south, and the Ambisontii('AuGVtui-rioi). the inhabitants of the banks of theIsonta, In the east the same authority mentionsthe Norici (Nwpiiro.) together with two other smalltribes, the Ambidravi ('A^fiiSpauo/, i. e. dwellersabout the Dravus) and the Ambilici ('A^Aiho.,or dwellers about the Licus or Lichias, or Lech). Itmust be observed that, in this enumeration ofPtolemy, the Norici, instead of forming the greatbody of the population, were only one of the sixsmaller tribes. As to the history of Noricum and its inhabitants,we know that at 6rst, and for a long time, they weregoverned by kings (Caes. B. C. i. 18; Strab. vii. pp.304, 313); and some writers speak of a regnumNoricum even after the country had been incorporatedwith the Roman Empire. (Veil. Pat. ii. 39, 109;Suet. Tib. 16.) From early times, the Noricans hadcarried on considerable commerce with Aquileia(Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314); but when theRomans, under the command of Tiberius and Drusus,made themselves masters of the adjoining coun­tries south of the Dauube, especially after theconquest ofKhaetia, Noricum also was subdued;and about b. c. 13, the country, after desperatestruggles of its inhabitants with the Romans,was conquered by Tiberius, Drusus, and P. Silius,in the course of one summer. (Strab. iv. p. 206;Dion Cass. liv. 20.) The country was thenchanged into a Roman province, probably an im­perial one, and was accordingly governed by aprocurator. (Tac. Hist. i. 11, Ann. ii. 63.) Partlyto keep Noricum in subjection, and partly to pro­tect it against foreign invasions, a strong body oftroops (the legio 11. Italica) was stationed at Lau-reacum, and three fleets were kept on the Danube,viz. theclassis Comaginen^is, the el. Arlapensis, audthe cl. Laureacensis. Roads were made through thecountry, several Roman colonies were founded, as atLaureacum and Ovilaba, and fortresses were built.In the time of Ptolemy, the province of Noricumwas not yet divided; but in the subsequent divisionof the whole empire into smaller provinces Noricumwas cut into two parts, Noricum Ripense (thenorthern part, along the I)anubc),and Noricum Medt-terraneum (embracing the southern and more moun­tainous part), each of which was governed by apraeses, the whole forming part of the diocese ofIllyricum. {Not Imp. OccuL p. 5, and Orient, p. 5.)The more important rivers of Noricum, the Savus,Dkavus, Murus, Abi*apb, Isks, Jovavuj* orIsonta, are described under their respective heatls.The ancient capital of the country was Noiekia;but, besides this, the country under the Roman