OCR Output TLA. 31 ILERGETES perfect state of our knowledge of the inscriptions inquestion, it is somewhat hazardous to draw fromtbem positive conclusions as to proper names; bnt it■terns that we may fairly infer the mention of severalsmall towns or communities in the immediate neigh­bourhood of Iguvium. These were, however, in allprobability not independent communities, but pagi,or village* dependent upon Iguvium itself. Of thisdescription were: Akerunia or Acerrouia (probablyanswering to the Latin Aqnilonia), CLavernia (inLat, Clavenna), Curia or Cureia, Casilum, Juviscum,Museia, Pierium ( ?), Tarsina, and Trebla or Trepla.The last of these evidently corresponds to the Latinname Trebia or Trebula, and may refer to the Um-brian town of that name: the Cureiati of the inscrip­tion are evidently the same with the Curiates ofPliny, mentioned by him among the extinct com­munities of Umbria (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19); while thenames of Museia and Casilum are said to be stillretained by two villages called Museia and Canto inthe immediate neighbourhood of Gubbio. Chiaserna,another neighbouring village, is perhaps the Clavcrnaof the Tables. The coins of Iguvium, which are of bronze, and oflarge size (so that tbey must be anterior to the re­duction of the Italian As), have the legend iky vim,which is probably the original form of the name, andis found in the Tables, though we here meet alsowith the softened and probably later form " Ijovina,"or " Iiovina." [E. H. B.] ILA, in Scotland, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.§ 5) as the first river sooth of the Berubium Pro-montorium = Firth of Dornoch. [R. G. L.] ILARAU'GATAE. [Hispania; Ileroetks.]ILARCUTUS. [Carpetasi.]1LAKGUS, a river of Kbaetia Secunda, flowingfrom west to east, and emptying itself into theDanube. (Pedo Albinov. Eleg. ad Liv. 386, wherethe common reading is Itargus; others read Isargus,and regard it as the same as the river AtagisCAva-yu) mentioned by Strabo, iv. p. 207, withGroakurd's note, vol. i. p. 356.) It would, however,appear that llargus and Isargus were two differentrivers, since in later writers we find, with a slightchange, a river Ililara ( Vita S. Magm. 18), answer­ing to the modem flltr, and another, Ysarche (Act.S. Cassiani, ap, Rescb. Anmai. Sabion. iv. 7), themodern Eisach, which flows in a southern direction,and emptier itself into the Athesis. [L. S.] ILATTIA (lAarrla, Polyb. ap. Steph. B. t. v.),a town of Crete, which is probably the same as theEijltcs of Pliny (iv. 12). Some editions readC'bUos, incorrectly classed by him among the inlandtowns. (Hock. Kreta, vol. i. p. 432.) [E. B. J.]ILDUM. [Edetahi.]11.1.1. [Hekmione.]ILEOSCA. [Osca.] ILEBCAONES (lAfpnforcs, Ptol. ii. 6. §§ 16,64; liercaonenses, Liv. xxii. 21; Ulnrgavonenses,Caes. B. C. \. 60: in this, as in so many otherSpanish names, the c and g are interchangeable), apwpfe of Hispania Tarracpnensis, occupying thatportion of the sea-coast of Edktania which laybetween the rivers Uddba and Iberus. Theirexact boundaries appear to have been a little to theN. of each of tbese rivers. They possessed the townof Dertosa (Tortosa), on the left bank of the Iberus,sad it was their chief city. [Dertosa.] Theirother towns, according to Ptolemy, were: — Adeba('Mttx: Ampotta f), Tiariuua (TiapiooAlo:Teari Julienses, ap. Plin. iii. 3. s. 4: Trayguera), BiscAECls (BttTKapryis; Biscargitani civ. Rom.,Plin.: Berrtu), Sigarra (Ziyajiia: Segarra,Marra, Hup. ii. 8), Carthago Vetus (KapXTjowK7raAaia: Carta Vieja, Marea, ibid.), and Theava(0fai'»a). Ukert also assigns to them, on the N. ofthe Iberus, Traja Capita, Oleasttbum, Tarraco,and other places, which seem clearly to have belongedto the Cosbtaxi. The name of their country,Ilercavonia, occurs on the coins of their cityIbera. [P. S.] ILERDA Cl\ipSa. and rarely EiAf'o&a; Hilerda,Auson. EpisU xxv. 59: Eth. 'lKepSirat, llerdenses:Lerida), the chief city of the Ilergktes, in His­pania Tarraconensis, is a place of considerable im­portance, historically as well as geographically. Itstood upon an eminence, on the right (W.) bank ofthe river Sicoris (Segre), the principal tributary ofthe Ebro, and some distance above its confluencewith the Ctnoa (Cinca); thus commanding thecountry between those rivers, as well as the greatroad from Tarraco to the NW. of Spain, which herecrossed the Sicoris. (Itin. Ant pp. 391, 452.)Its situation (propter ipsius loci opporttmitatem,Caes. B. C. i. 38) induced the legates of Pompey inSpain to make it the key of their defence againstCaesar, in the first year of the Civil War (b. c. 49).Afranius and Petreius threw themselves into theplace with five legions; and their siege by Caesarhimself, as narrated in his own words, forms one ofthe most interesting passages of military history.The resources exhibited by the great general, in acontest where the formation of the district and thevery elements of nature seemed in leagne with hisenemies, have been compared to those displayed bythe great Dnke before Badajoz; but no epitome cando justice to the campaign. It ended by the capitu­lation of Afranius and Petreius, who were conqueredas much by Caesar's generosity as by his strategy.(Caes. B. C. i. 38, et seq.; Flor. iv. 12; Appum,B. C. ii. 42; Veil. Pat. ii. 42; Suet. Cats. 34;Lucan, Pharsal. iv. 11, 144.) Under the empire,Uerda was a very flourishing city, and a muni-cipium. It had a fine stone bridge over the Sicoris,on the foundations of which the existing bridgeis built. In the time of AuBonius the city hudfallen into decay; but it rose again into importancein the middle ages. (Strab. iii. p. 161; Horat.Epitt. i. 20. 13; coins, ap. Florez, Med. ii. pp.451,646, iii. p. 73; Mionnet, vol. i. p. 44, Snppl. vol. i.p. 89; Sestini, pp. 161, 166; Eckhel, vol. i. p.51.) [P. S.] COIX OF ILERDA. ILERGE'TES CYKifrrrtfrn, Ptol. ii. 6. § 68; Liv.xxi. 23, 61, xxii. 22; Plin. iii.3. s. 4; "IKoupy^Tit,Polyb. iii. 35) or ILE'RGETAE CWtpyiriu, Strab.iii. p. 161: doubtless the'iAapaoyaVai of Hecataeus,077. Stepb. B. s. v.), a people of Hispania Tarraco.nensis, extending on the N. of the Iberus (Ebro)from the river Gallicus (Gallego) to both banks ofthe Sicoris (JSegre), and as far E. as the Rubri­cate (Llobregat); and having for neighbours the