OCR Output DECLINE AND FAIL [CHAP. XL1Y. malice of an incendiary. After the previous ceremonyof whipping, he himself was delivered to the flames ; andin this example alone our reason is tempted to approvethe justice of retaliation. 5. Judicial perjury. Thecorrupt and malicious witness was thrown headlong fromthe Tarpeian rock to expiate his falsehood, which wasrendered still more fatal by the severity of the penal laws,and the deficiency of written evidence. 6. The corrup­tion of a judge, who accepted bribes, to pronounce an ini­quitous sentence. 7. Libels and satires, whose rudestrains sometimes disturbed the peace of an illiterate city.The author was beaten with clubs, a worthy chastise­ment, but it is not certain that he was left to expireunder the blows of the executioner.*1 8. The nocturnalmischief of damaging or destroying a neighbour's corn.The criminal was suspended as a grateful victor to Ceres.But the Sylvan deities were less implacable, and the extir­pation of a more valuable tree was compensated by themoderate fine of twenty-five pounds of copper. Q. Ma­gical incantations; which had power, in the opinion ofthe Latin shepherds, to exhaust the strength of an ene­my, to extinguish his life, and remove from their seatshis deep-rooted plantations. The cruelty of the twelvetables against insolvent debtors still remains to be told;and I shall dare to prefer the literal sense of antiquity, tothe specious refinements of modern criticism/ Afterthe judicial proof or confession of the debt, thirty daysof grace were allowed before a Roman was delivered intothe power of his fellow-citizens. In this private prison,twelve ounces of rice were his daily food; he might be tarch in Romnlo, tom. 1. p. 57.) Baring the Cimbric, P. Malleolus was guilty ofthe first matricide, (liy. Epitom. lib. 68.) '1 Horace talks of the furmidine fastis; (lib. 2. epist. 2. 154.) hat Cicero de Re­publics (lib. 4. apud Augustin. de Civitat. Dei, 9. 6. in Fragment. Philosoph. tom. 3.p. 393. edit Olivet) affirms that the decemvirs made libels a capital offence : cam per-pancas res capite faxissent—perpaucus! r Bynkershoek (Observat. Juris Rom. lib. 1. c. 1. in Opp. tom. 1. p. 9—11.) la­bours to prove that the creditors divided not the body, but the price of the insolventdebtor. Yet his interpretation is one perpetual harsh metaphor; nor can he surmount,the Roman authorities of Quiutilian, Cacciiius, Favonius, and Terlullian. See AulusGeltias, Noct. Attie. SI.