OCR Output 280 ROMAN EMPIRE. In the story of the Hebrew patriarchs, the Arabs werepleased to discover the fathers of their nation. Theyapplauded the birth and promises of Ismael; reveredthe faith and virtue of Abraham; traced his pedigreeand their own to the creation of the first man, and im­bibed, with equal credulity, the prodigies of the holytext, and the dreams and traditions of the Jewish rabbis.Birti a ' The base and plebeian origin of Mahomet iseducation an unskilful calumny of the Christians,' whomet, A.0D. exalt instead of degrading the merit of their569—609. a(iversary. JJis descent from Ismael was anational privilege or fable; but if the first steps of thepedigree8 are dark and doubtful, he could produce manygenerations of pure and genuine nobility: he sprung.from the tribe of Koreish and the family of Hashem,the most illustrious of the Arabs, the princes of Mecca,and the hereditary guardians of the Caaba. The grand­father of Mahomet was Abdol Motalleb, the son of Ha­shem, a weal thy and generous citizen, who relieved the dis­tress of famine with the supplies of commerce. Mecca,which had been fed by the liberality of the father, wassaved by the courage of the son. The kingdom of Ye­men was subject to the Christian princes of Abyssinia:their vassal Abrahah was provoked by an insult toavenge the honour of the cross; and the holy city wasinvested by a train of elephants and an army of Afri­cans. A treaty was proposed; and in the first audi­ence, the grandfather of Mahomet demanded the resti­ the Armenian, Persian, Ethiopia versions, expressly quoted by the fathers of thefifth century, who assert, that the Scriptures were translated into all the barbariclanguages. (Walton, Prolegomena ad Biblia Polyglot, p. 34. 93—97. Simeon,Hist. Critique du V. et du N. Testament, torn. 1. p. 180, 181.282—286. Z93. 305,306. torn. 4. p. 306.) 'In eo conveniunt omnes ut plebeio vilique genere ortum, &c. (Hottinger,Hist . Orient, p. 136.) Yet Theophanes, the most ancient of the Greeks, and thefather of many a lie, confesses that Mahomet was of the race of Ismael, u /uwcyiiaunn.nt uXw (Chronograph, p. 277.) • Abulfeda, (in Vit. Mohammed, c. 1, 2.) and Gagnier (Vie de Mahomet, p.25—97.) describe the popular and approved genealogy of the prophet. At Mecca.I would not dispute its authenticity: at Lausanne, I will venture to observe, 1.That from Ismael to Mahomet, a period of two thousand five hundred years, theyreckon thirty, instead of seventy-five, generations. 2. That the modern Bedoweensare ignorant of their history and careless of their pedigree. (Voyage d'Arvieux,p. J30.133.)