OCR Output 206 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII. diers very hardly, neither remembering the league of mutual as足sistance that was between them, nor that he was his son-in-lawand kinsman, by Cleopatra's marriage to him; so the soldiersfled from his wicked treatment to Alexandria, but Demetriuskept his elephants. But Jonathan the high priest, levied anarmy out of all Judea, and attacked the citadel at Jerusalem,and besieged it; it was held by a garrison of Macedonians, andby some of those wicked men who had deserted the customs oftheir forefathers. These men at first despised the attempts ofJonathan for taking the place, as depending on its strength; butsome of those wicked men went out by night and came to De足metrius, and informed him, that the citadel was besieged; whowas irritated with what he heard, and took his army, and camefrom Antioch, against Jonathan. And when he was at An-tioch, he wrote to him, and commanded him to come tohim quickly to Ptolemais: upon which Jonathan did not in足termit the siege of the citadel, but took with him the elders ofthe people, and the priests, and carried with him gold, and silver,and garments, and a great number of presents of friendship, andcame to Demetrius, and presented him with them, and therebypacified the king's anger. So he was honoured by him, and re足ceived from him the confirmation of his high priesthood, as hehad possessed it by the grants of the kings his predecessors. Andwhen the Jewish deserters accused him, Demetrius was so farfrom giving credit to them, that when he petitioned him that hewould demand no more than three hundred talents for the tributeof all Judea, and the three toparchies of Samaria and Perea, andGalilee, he complied, with the proposal, and gave him a letterconfirming all those grants, whose contents were as follows:"King Demetrius to Jonathan his brother, and to the nation of"the Jews, sendeth greeting: We have sent you a copy of that"epistle which we have written to Lasthenes our kinsman, that"you may know its contents. King Demetrius to Lasthenes our"lather, sendeth greeting: I have determined to return thanks,"and to show favour to the nation of the Jews, which hath ob-"served the rules ofjusticeinourconcerns. Accordingly, I remit"to them the three prefectures, Apherimo, and Lydda, and Ra-"matha, which have been added to Judea out of Samaria, with"their appurtenances: As also what the kings my predecessors"received from those that offered sacrifices in Jerusalem, and"what are due from the fruits of the earth, and of the trees,"and what else belongs to us; with the salt pits and the crowns"that used to be presented to us! Nor shall they be compelled his coins still extant; as Hudson and Spanheim inform us; the latter of whom givesus here the entire inscription, Xing Demetrius the God, Philatklphus Nicator.