OCR Output 22 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX. good order; and when Joram met him in the field of Naboth,he asked him, if all things were well in the camp? but Jehu re­proached him bitterly, and ventured to call his mother a witch,and an harlot. Upon this the king fearing what he intended,and suspecting he had no good meaning, he turned his chariotabout as soon as he could, and said to Ahaziah, we are foughtagainst by deceit and treachery: But Jehu drew his bow, andsmote him, the arrow going through his heart: so Joram felldown immediately on his knee, and gave up the ghost. Jehualso gave orders to Bidkar, the captain of the third part of hisarmy, to cast the dead body of Joram into the .field of Naboth,putting him in mind of the prophecy which Elijah prophesied toAhab.his father, when he had slain Naboth, that both he andhis family should perish in that place, for that as tb«ey,sat behindAhab's chariot, they heard the prophet say so, and that it wasnow come to pass according to his prophecy. Upon the fall ofJoram, Ahaziah was afraid of his own life, and turned his chariotinto another road, supposing he should not be seen by Jehu; buthe followed after him, and overtook him at a certain acclivity,and drew his bow, and wounded him, so he left his chariot, andgot upon his horse, and fled from Jehu to Megiddo, and thoughhe was under cure, in a little time he died of that wound, andwas carried to Jerusalem, and buried there, after he had reign­ed one year, and had proved a wicked man, and worse than hisfather, .. .-. u. ', ;<i 4°. Now when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel adornedherself and stood upon a tower, and said, ".he was a fine servant"that had killed his master." And when he looked up to her,he asked who she was? and commanded her to come down tohim. At last he ordered the eunuchs to throw her down fromthe tower, and being thrown down, she besprinkled the wall withher blood, and was trodden upon by the horses, and so died.When this was done,'Jehu came to the palace with his friends,and took some refreshment- after his journey, both with .otherthings, and by eating a meal. He also bid his servants to takeup Jezebel and bury her, because of the nobility of her blood,for she was descended from kings; but those that were appointedto bury her found nothing else remaining but the extreme partsof her body, for all the rest were eaten by dogs:- When Jehuheard this, he admired the prophecy of Elijah, for he foretoldthat she should perish in this manner at Jezreel. 5. Now Ahab had seventy sons brought up in Samaria. So to Jehu, and at length to go out with king Ahaziah to meet him, and all thisaffcr he was come within eight of the watchman, and before lie was come toJczru I, the probability is greatly un the side of Josephus' copy or intcrpre- Utiot).