OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 295 letters of Valerius and Aurelius were read, and audi­ence given to the ambassadors of the Athenians. Afterwhich a decree of the senate was passed, that thanksshould be given to their allies, because, though longsolicited, they had not been prevailed on, even by'dread of a siege, to depart from their engagements.With regard to sending assistance to them, they re­solved that an answer should be given as soon as theconsuls should have cast lots for the provinces, andwhen the consul to whose lot Macedonia fell shouldhave proposed to the people to declare war againstPhilip, king of the Macedonians. 6. The province of Macedonia fell by lot to PubliusSulpicius; and he proposed to the people to declare,'that they chose and ordered, that on account of theinjuries and hostilities committed against the allies ofthe Roman people, war should be proclaimed againstking Philip and the Macedonians under his govern­ment.' The province of Italy fell to the lot of theother consul, Aurelius. The pretors then cast lots:to Cneius Sergius Plancus fell the city jurisdiction;to Quintus Fulvius Gillo, Sicily; to Quintus MinuciusRufus, Bruttium; and to Lucius Furius Purpureo.Gaul. At the first meeting of the people the proposalconcerning the Macedonian war was rejected by al­most all the tribes. This was occasioned partly by thepeople's own inclinations, who, wearied by the lengthand severity of the late war, longed to be freed fromtoils and dangers; and partly by Quintus B;ebius, tri­bune of the people, who, pursuing the old practice ofcriminating the patricians, charged them with multi­plying wars one after another, so that the people couldnever enjoy peace. This proceeding gave great offenceto the patricians, and the tribune was severely repre­hended in the senate, where all earnestly recommendedit to the consul to call a new assembly for passing theproposal; to rebuke the backwardness of the people;and to prove to them how highly detrimental and dis­honorable it would be to decline engaging in that war. 7. The consul having assembled the people in the