OCR Output S40 MACRA. MACR0B1L (-casus was taken, and tlie number found to be12.000 men, women, and children." In earlier time*the population was much more considerable; for"wben Abou Dbaker Miked Mekka in A. II. ,114(a. v. 926) 30.000 of the inhabitants were killed byhisferocious soldiers." AH Bey'sestimatcin a.d. 1807U much lower than Burckhardt's in A. I>. 1814.Yet the former says " that the population of Mekkadiminishes sensibly. This city, which is known tohave contained more than 100,000 souls, does net atpresent shelter mm than from 16,000 to 18,000;"and conjectures th.it "it will be reduced, in thecourse of a century, to the tenth part of the size itnow is.*1 The celebrated Kaaba demands a cursorynotice. It is situated in the midst of a great court,which forms a parallelogram of about 536 feet by356, surrounded by a double piazza. This sanc­tuary, called, like that of Jerusalem, El-Hararn. issituated near the middle of the city, which is builtin a narrow valley, having a considerable slope fromnorth to south. In order to form a level area forthe great court if the temple, the ground lias evi­dently been hollowed out, subsequently to theerection of the Kaaba, which is the only ancientedifice in the temple. The building itself (calledby the natives BeU-VUah, the House of God), pro­bably the most ancient sacred building now existing,is a quadrilateral tower, the sides and angles ofwhich are unequal. Its dimensions are 38 feet by29, and its height 34 feet 4 inches; built of square-liewu but unpolished blocks of quartz, schorl, andmica, brought from the neighbouring mountains.The black stone, the most sacred object of vene­ration, is built into the angle formed by the NE.and SK. sides, 42 inches above the pavement. Itis believed by the Moslems to have been presentedto Abraham by the angel Gabriel, and is called " theheavenly stone.'' Ali Bey says that "it is a frag­ment of volcanic basalt, sprinkled throughout itscircumference with small, pointed, coloured crystals,and varied with red feldspath upon a dark blackground like coal." The famous well of Zenizem, inthe great mosk, is 56 feet deep to the surface of thewater, fed hy a co[aous spring ; but its water, saysBurckhardt, "however holy, is heavy to the taste,and impedes digestion." Ali Bey, on the contiary,says that it is wholesome, though warmer than theair ever, in that hot climate. The town is furthersupplied with rain-water preserved in cisterns: butthe best water in Mekka is brought by a conduitfrum the Ticinity of Asa at, six or seven hoursdistant." (Ali Bey, Travels, vol. ii. pp. 74—114;Burckhardt, TraveUin Arabia, pp. 94, &c.)[G.W.J11ACKA (o Mo*oi)s, Strab.; Ptolemy has thecorrupt form MaxpaAAa: Matjra), a considerableriver of Northern Italy, rising in the Apennines andflowing into the Tyrrhenian Sea near Luna. It wasunder the Unman dominion the established limit be­tween I.iguiia and Etruria (l'lin. iii. 5. s. 7; Klor.ii. 3. § 4; Strab. v. p. 222; Vib. Scq. p. 14): butat an earlier period the Ligurian tribe of the Apuanioccupied the country on both sides of it, and it wasnot till after a lung struggle with that people thatthe Komans were able to carry their anus as far asthe bunk* of the Macra. (Lie. xxxix 32, xl. 41.)The Macra is one of the m<«t considerable of therivers on the l.igurian coast, but it still retains thecharacter of a mountain torrent, at times very vio-^*. And impetuous, at others so shullow as to be^■w unlit for navigation (Luran, ii. 426). Thet Lima arc situated un the left bauk of the Magra, about a mile from the tea, while the cele­brated Port of Luna (the Gulf of Sjkmm) a somamiles distant to the \V., and separated from it byan intervening range of hills [LukaJ. About lOmiles from its mouth the Magra receives firttn it*\V. bank the waters of the Vara, also a formidabletorrent, which is in all probability the Boatks .ifPtolemy (iii. 1. § 3). [E. H. B.] MAC!;A COME, a place mentioned by Lrry(xxxii. 13) along with Sperchiae. Its position is un­certain, but it was perhaps a town of the Aeniaue*. MACHIS, an island off the coast of Attica, alsocalled Helena. [Hki.kxa.] MACKO'BII (Herod, iii. 17—25; Pirn. ri. 30.s. 35, vii. 1. a. 2; Solin. 30. § 9 ; Mela. iii. 9. § 1 \or the long-lived, might have been briefly enuris—rated among the numerous and obscure tribes * liichdwelt above Philae and the second cataract of listNile, were it not for the conspicuous position as­signed to them by Herodotus. He describe* theMacrobii as a strong and opulent nation, remarkablefor its stature, beauty and longevity, and, in smierespects, as highly civilised. According to this his­torian, a rumour of the abundance of gold in theMacrobian territory stimulated the avarice of thePersian king, Cambyses, who 1,-d a great artujagainst them: but in his haste he omitted to pro­vide his host with food and water, and the city waadistant many days' journey, and between the Macro­bian land und Egy]*t lay sandy wastes, and the Per­sians perished through drought and hunger, Cam­byses alone and a small residue of his army returainft;to Egypt. In the description of Herodotus, the mustimportant point is the geographical position assignedto them. It is in the farthest south (J»l »p 'or.17daAdo-cn, c. 17, To^{,7xaT« TV' Tri', e. 25) tl»«limits of the habitable world, according to the know­ledge of Herodotus. The Macrobian land was ac­cordingly beyond the Arabian Gulf, on the •bore» ofthe Indian ocean, and in that undefined and illimit­able region called Barbaria by the ancient coomo-graphers. Travellers and writers on geography have advanorjseveral theories respecting their jMisition in Afiwa.Bruce (TVarrb, vol. iv. p. 43) supposes the Ma­crobii to have been a tribe of Shangalla or lowlaisjblacks. Itennell {Gtogr. System of Ii trod, ii- P-S9(2nd edit,) identifies them with the Abyaaunana;Heeren {AJrican Nation*, vol. ii. pp. 321—358)believes them to have been a branch of the SeU'iW hwho occupied the maritime district around CapaGuardafui: while Niebuhr {Dissertation on the G>og.of IItrod. p. 20), objects to all these surmi»r», aataking for granted too much knowledge in Herodotushimself. In the story, as it stands, there is una in­surmountable objection to the position in the tarsouth assigned to them by the historian, and tuareadily accepted by his modern commentators. Noarmy, much less an oriental anny with its manyincumbrances, could have marched from E;ryj<t intoAbyssinia without previously sending forward maga­zines and securing wells. There were ncitlirr n*d«,nor tanks of water, nor com land nor herbage to l»found in a considerable portion of the route (¥&>***',o. 25). Even at the present day no direct comniu-nication exists between Aegypt and the land <4~ to*Nubians of Somaleh. No single traveller, no caravan,could adventure to proceed by land from the cata­racts to Cape Guardafui. An army far inferior ianumbers to the alleged host of Cambyses would ma lew days exlutust the grass and the millet of Nu­