OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. coast lest destitute by nature of secure harbours '°9. The city waslarge and populous; a double enclosure of walls seemed to defy thefury of the Goths, and the usual garrison had been strengthened by areinforcement of ten thousand men. But there are not any advan­tages capable of supplying the absence of discipline and vigilance.The numerous garrison of Trebizond, dissolved in riot and luxury,disdained to guard their impregnable fortifications. The Goths soondiscovered the supine negligence of the besieged, erected a lofty pileof fascines, ascended the walls, in the silence of the night, andentered the defenceless city, sword in hand. A general massacre ofthe people ensued, whilst the affrighted soldiers escaped through theopposite gates of the town. The most holy temples, and the mostsplendid edifices, were involved in a common destruction. Thebooty that fell into the hands of the Goths was immense: the wealthof the adjacent countries had been deposited in Trebizond, as in asecure place of refuge. The number of captives was incredible, asthe victorious barbarians ranged without opposition through theextensive province of Pontus "°. The rich spoils of Trebizondfilled a great fleet of ships that had been found in the port. Therobust youth of the sea coast were chained to the oar; and theGoths, satisfied with the success of their first naval expedition,returned in triumph to their new establishments in the kingdom ofBosphorus "*. . . , ', 'The second expedition of the Goths was undertaken with Second e dicion of greater powers of men and ships, but they steered a different Goths.course, and disdaining the exhausted provinces of Pontus, followedthe western coast of the Euxine, passed before the wide mouths ofthe Borysthenes, the Niester, and the Danube, and increasing theirfleet by the capture of a great number of fishing barks, they ap­proached the narrow out-let through which the Euxine sea pours itswaters into the Mediterranean, and divides the continents of Europeand Asia. The garrison of Chalcedon was encamped near the - ..M m 2 temple