OCR Output STRACUSAE. 1057 SYRACUSAE. ) xt?ign any definite place in chronology to therjrrwn* there alluded to. At a later period wer..l tne government in the hands of an exclusive.^wvlir called tbe Geomori or Gamori, who, from*ir nanis, would appear to have been the descend-in t-f tbe original colonist*, around whom thereltamllv grew up a democracy or plebs, composed oft c.uieu* derived from otlier sources. At length,»:i a. c. 486, a revolution took place; and thor;-"<racT succeeded in expelling the Geomori, whoneupon withdrew to Casrnenae. (Herod, vii. 155; ri. 62.) But this revolution quickly ledjri/.her; Gelon, the powerful despot of Gela, having>ju**J the cause of the exiles. Gela was at thus:t st leant equal, if not sujierior, to Syracuse in'•r. liijipoerates, its late despot, had extendedi [wwer over many of the other cities in the easti^ictlj, and defeated the Syracusans themselves in[real battle'at the river ilehrus. lie would pro-ilt itdred have made himself master ot Syracusen this occasion had it not been for the inter-auofl of the Corinthians and Corcyraeans, who'■i;jit about a peace upon equitable terms. (Herod.1j4.) But the expulsion of the Geomori openedma opportunity to Gelon, who, putting himselft tr bead of the exiles, easily effected their re-■x- m, while the people of Syracuse readily ad-■■ ■ Gelon himself as their ruler with despoticHariiy. (Ib. 155.) f!u» revolution (which occurred in b. c. 485) ■ ><i it tint likely to render Syracuse subordinatejfla, bat it ultimately produced a directly con-y eject. Gelon seems to have been fully alivetat superior advantages of Syracuse, and from rr.tvnent be had established his power in that. mad* it the chief object of his solicitude, andiini ill bis efforts to the strengthening andhis new capital. Among other measures,moved timber ihe whole body of the citizens ofaaria* (which had been rc peopled by Hippo-•**). and subsequently more than half of thoseiUclf, admitting them all to the full rightsyrjcu&an citizens. Afterwards, as he directed•nns successively against the Sicilian Megaraluix-ca, be removed the wealthy and noble citi-of both those cities also to Syracuse, (/&. 156.)t ciiy now rose rapidly to a far greater amount*« and prosperity than it had previously en-and became, under the fostering care of«o, unquestionably the first of the Greek cities*iiy. It was probably at this period that itextended itself beyond the limits of the island, ■ npied tho table-land or heights of Aehra-. wfaich were adapted to receive a far moreeruas population, and had already becomeL'J peopled before the time of Thucydides.f. vl 3.) This portion of the city now came • fttwu as the Outer City (/j {£« whilet ind of Ortygia was called the Inner City,■'h still frequently designated as '' the Island.''»peaking, however, it had ceased to merittfrnj, being now joined to the mainland by an a) dike or causeway. (Thuc. /. c.)rusi the time of Gelon the history of Syracusenea inseparably blended with that of Sicily innJ; its position in the island being so im-i -i that, as Strabo justly remarku, whateveretudes of fortune betel the city were shared inhe whole is land. (Strab. vi. p. 270.) Hence4ild be useless to recapitulate the events ofb i brief »ummary has been already given in>L u. the article Sicilia, and which are more fully de­tailed by all the general historians of Greece. Thefollowing summary will, therefore, be confined tothose historical events which more immediatelyaffected the city itself, as distinguished from thepolitical vicissitudes of the state. There can be no doubt that Syracuse continued toflourish extremely throughout the reign of Gelon(b. c. 485—478), as well as that of his successorHieron (b. c. 478—467), who, notwithstanding themore despotic character of his government, was inmany respects a liberal and enlightened ruler. Hispatronage of letters and the arts especially renderedSyracuse one of the chief resorts of men of letters,and his court afforded shelter and protection toAeschylus, 1'indar, and Bacchylides. Nor was Sy­racuse itself deficient in literary distinction. Kpi-charm us, though not a native of the city, spent allthe latter years of bis life there, and Sophron, thecelebrated writer of mimes, was a native of Syracuse,and exhibited all his principal works there. Thecare bestowed upon the arts is sufficiently attestedby the still extant coins of the city, as well as bythe accounts transmitted to us of other monuments;and there is every probability that the distinction ofSyracuse in this respect commenced from the reignof Hieron. The tranquil reign of that monarch wasfollowed by a brief period of revolution and disturb­ance; his brother Thrasybulus having, after a shortbut tyrannical and violent reign, been expelled by theSyracusans, who established a popular government,b. c. 466. This was for a time agitated by freshtumults, arising out of disputes between the newcitizens who had been introduced by Gelon and theolder citizens, who claimed the exclusive possessionof political power; but after some time these dis­putes were terminated by a compromise, and thenew citizens withdrew to Mcssana. (Diod. xi. 67,68, 72, 73, 76.) The civil dissensions connected with the expulsionof Thrasybulus, which on more than one occasionbroke out into actual hostilities, show how great wasthe extent which the city had already attained.Thrasybulus himself, and afterwards the discontentedcitizens, are mentioned as occupying the Island andAchradina, both of which were strongly fortified,and had their own separate walls (Diod. xi. 68,73); while the popular party held the rest of thecity. It is evident therefore that there were alreadyconsiderable spaces occupied by buildings outside thewalls of these two quarters, which are distinctlymentioned on one occasion as "the suburbs" (tA-,ir,u,jTf tci, lb. 68). Of these, one quarter calledTycha, which lay to the YV. of Achradina, adjoiningthe N. slope of the table-land, is now first mentionedby name (Jlrid.); but there can be no doubt that theplain between the heights of Achradina and themarshes was already occupied with buildings, andfonned part of the city, though it apparently wasnot as yet comprised within tbe fortifications. The fiual establishment of the democracy at Sy­racuse was followed by a period of about sixty yearsof tree government, during which we are expresslytold that the city, in common with the other Greekcolonies in Sicily, developed its resources with greatrapidity, and probably attained to its maximum ofwealth and power. (Diod. xi. 68,72.) Before tbeclose of this period it had to encounter the severestdanger it had yet experienced, and gave abundantproof of its great resources by coming off victoriousin a contest with Athens, then at the very height of 3 T