OCR Output VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA. 1291 on be general plan of then edifices. [Roma, p.844.] Proceeding onwards from the tomb of CaeciliaMetella, the road ia bordered throughout by numeroussepulchres, the most remarkable of which is the tombof Servilius Quartus, on the left, abont 3} miles fromRome. The remarkable preservation of the ancientmad in this part of its coarse, shows the accuracy of I he description above cited from Procopius; but it isremarkable that this, the greatest and most frequentedhighway of the Roman empire, was only just wideenough to admit of the passage of two carriagesabreast, being only 15 feet broad between the raisedcrrpidina which bordered it. After passing a num­ber of obscure tombs on both sides of the way, thereoccurs, just beyond the fifth mile from Rome, a re­markable enclosure, of quadrangular form, surroundedby a low wall of Alban stone. This has frequentlybeen supposed to be the Campos Sacer Horatiorum,alluded to by Martial (iii. 47) as existing on theA pt»ian Way, and which preserved the memory of thecelebrated combat between the Horatii and Curiiilli.This waa believed to hare been fought just about 5miles from Rome (Liv. i. 23), which would accordwell with the position of the enclosure in question;hoi it is maintained by modern antiquaries that this,which was certainly of a sacred character, more pro­bably served the purposes of an Ustrinum, or placewhere the bodies of the dead were burned, previouslyto their being deposited in the numerous sepulchresthat lined both sides of the Appian Way. Thesestill form a continuous cemetery fur above two milesfarther. The most massive of them all, which must,when entire, have greatly exceeded even that ofCaecilia Metella in magnitude, and from its circularform is known as the Catal RoUmdo, occurs nearthe, 6th mile from Rome, on the left of the Via Ap­pia. From a fragment of an inscription found here,it ia probable that this is the tomb of Messala Cor-vmua, the friend of Augustus and patron of Tibullus,soxl aa the very monument, the massive solidity ofwliich is more than once referred to by Martial( " Meaaalae saxa," viii. 3. 5; "marmora Messalae,"x. 2. 9). Somewhat nearer Rome, on the same sideof the road, are extensive ruins of a different descrip­tion, which are ascertained to be those of a villa ofthe Quint ilii. two brothers celebrated for their wealth,who were put to death by Commodus (Dion Cass.Ixxii. 5), after which the villa in question probablybecame an imperial residence. Some remains of a small temple, just 8 milesfrom Rome, have been supposed to be those of atemple of Hercules, consecrated or restored by Do-roitian at that distance from the city (Martial, iii.47. 4, U. 65. 4, 102. 12); but though the site ofthe temple in question is clearly indicated, it ap­pears that the existing remains belong to an edifice«f earlier date. Kxactly 9 miles from Rome are theruins of a villa of imperial date, within which is alarge circular monument of brick, supposed withgood reason to be the tomb of Gallicnus, in whichthe emperor Flavins Severus also was buried.(Vies. KpiL lx.) Close to this spot must have beenthe station Ad Nonnm mentioned in the JerusalemItinerary (/. c). The road is still bordered on bothsides by tombs; but none of these are of any specialinterest. At the Oittriu dell* Fratocchie (between II and 12 miles from Rome) the ancient Via isjoined by the modern road to Albann: it here com­mences the ascent of the Alban Hills, which con­tinues (though at first very gradually) for above 3 J miles. A little farther on are the remains of Bo-rillae; the principal ruirs of which lie a short dis­tance to the right of the road. [Bovii.i.ae.]The Tabula marks that place as a station onthe Via Appia, but erroneously places it 10 milesfrom Rome, while the real distance is 12 miles.Thence the road (still retaining its straight line) as­cended the hill to *Albano, nearly on the site of theAi.nAM M of Domitian, which, as we lcam fromMartial, was just 14 miles front Rome. (Martial,ix. 65. 4, 102. 12.) The remains of the imperialvilla border the road on the left for some distancebefore reaching the modem town. Two miles fsr-ther was Aricia, which is correctly placed by both theItineraries 16 miles from Rome. The station wasprobably below the town, outside of the walls, as theVia Appia here deviates from the straight line whichit has pursued so long, and descends into the hollowbelow the city by a steep slope known as the ClivusAricinus. A little farther on it is carried over thelowest part of the valley by a causeway or substruc­tion of massive masonry, one of the most remark­able works of the kind now extant [Aricia.] The remainder of the road "ill not require to bodescribed in such detail. From Aricia it was con­tinued, with a slight deviation from the direct line,avoiding the hills of Genzano and those which boundthe Late o/yami, on the left, and leaving Ls-nuvium at some distance on the right, till il descendedagain into the plain beyond the Alban Hills and reachedthe station of Tree Tabemae. An intermediate sta­tion, Sub Lanuvio, indicated only in the Tabula, mnsthave been situated where a branch road struck offto the city of Lanuvium. The position of TresTabemae has been much disputed, but without anygood reason. That of Forum Appii, the next stage,u clearly established [Forum Arm], and the43rd milestone of the ancient road still exists on thespot; thus showing that the distances given in theAntonine Itinerary are perfectly correct. This beingestablished, it is clear that Tres Tabemae is to beplaced at a spot 10 miles nearer Rome, and about 3miles beyond the modem Ciiterna, where there arestill ruins of ancient buildings, near a mediaevaltower called the Torre dAnnibale. The ancientpavement is still visible in many places betweenAricia and Tres Tabemae, and no doubt can existas to the course of the road. This was indeedcarried in a perfectly straight line from the pointwhere it descended into the plain, through the Pon­tine Marshes to within a few miles of Terracing.The position of the station Ad Sponsas, mentioned inthe Jerusalem Itinerary, cannot be determined, as thedistances there given are incorrect. We shouldperhaps read xii. for rii. as the distance fromForum Appii, in which case it must be placed2 miles nearer Rome than Tres Tabemae. Betweenthe latter station and Forum Appii was Tiurox-tium, st which commenced the canal navigationcalled Decennovium from its being 19 miles inlength. The site of this is clearly marked by atower still called Torre di TVs Ponti, and the19 miles measured thence along the canal wouldterminate at a point 3 miles from Terracma, wheretravellers qnitted the canal for that city. An in­scription records the paring of this part of theroad by Trajan. The solitary posthouse of Meta * It was probably this long ascent that wasknown as the C'uvis Vibbii, mentioned by Persius(vi. 55).