OCR Output CHAP. XLIII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Theodoric and his immediate successors, but every deedwas rescinded and abolished, which force had extorted,or fear had subscribed, under the usurpation of Totila.A moderate theory was framed to reconcile the rights ofproperty with the safety of prescription, the claims of thestate with the poverty of the people, and the pardon ofoffences with the interest of virtue and order of society.Under the exarchs of Ravenna, Rome was degraded tothe second rank. Yet the senators were gratified by thepermission of visiting their estates in Italy, and of ap­proaching without obstacle the throne of Constantinople;the regulation of weights and measures was delegated tothe pope and senate; and the salaries of lawyers andphysicians, of orators and grammarians, were destined topreserve or rekindle the light of science in the ancientcapital. Justinian might dictate benevolent edicts,1 andNarses might second his wishes by the restoration ofcities, and more especially of churches. But the powerof kings is most effectual to destroy: and the twentyyears of the Gothic war had consummated the distressand depopulation of Italy. As early as the fourth cam­paign, under the discipline of Belisarius himself, fiftythousand labourers died of hunger"1 in the narrow regionof Picenum and a strict interpretation of the evidenceof Procopius would swell the loss of Italy above the to­tal sum of her present inhabitants.0 - "j 1 Tlie Pragmatic Sanction of Justinian, which restores and regulates the civilstate of Italy, consists of twenty-seven articles: it is dated August 15, A. D. 554;is addressed to .Narses, V. J, Propositus Sacri Cubicnli, and to Antiochus, Pras-fectus Prcetorio Italia?; and has been preserved by Julian Antecessor, and in theCorpus Juris Civilis, after the novels and edicts of Justinian, Justin, , and Tibe­rius. m A still greater number was consumed by famine in the southern provinces, with­out (wrof) the Ionian gulf. Acorns were used iu the place of bread. Procopiushad seen a deserted orphan suckled by a sbe-goat. Seventeen passengers werelodged, murdered, and eaten by two women, who were detected and slain by theeighteenth, &c. > "Quinta regio Piceni est; quondam uberrima; muUitudinis, ccclx millia Picentiumin fidein P. R. venere. (Plin. Hist. Nalur. 3.18.) In the time'of Vespasian, this an­cient population was already diminished. ° Perhaps fifteen or sixteen millions. Procopius (Anecdot. c. 18) computes thatAfrica lost lire millions, that Italy was thrice as extensive, and that the depopulationwas in a larger proportion. But his reckoning is inflamed by passion, aud cloudedwilb uncertainty. VOL. V. X