OCR Output ISSEDONES. Oil ISSUS. filial piety by the practice of the Battas of Sumatra.It may be remarked that a similar story is told ofthe Indian Padaei. (Herod, iii. 99.) FomponiusMela (ii. 1. § 13) simply copies the statement ofHerodotus, though he alters it so far as to assertthat the Issedones used the skull as a drinking cup.The name occurs more than once in Pliny (iv. 26,tl 7, 19); and Ptolemy, who has a town Issedonin Serica ("Io-o-jj&ov, vi. 16. § 7, viii. 24. § 5), men­tions in another place (viii. 24. § 3) the ScythianIssedon. (Comp. Steph. B. «. v.; Amin. Marc xxiii.6 § 66. Von Humboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. i. pp. 390—412) has shown that, if the relief of the countriesbetween the Don and the Irtysh be compared withthe itinerary traced by Herodotus from the Thys-sagetae to the Issedones, it will be seen that theFather of History was acquainted with the existenceof rut plains separating the Ural and Altai, chainswhich modem geographers have been in the habit ofuniting by an imaginary range passing through thesteppe of the Kirghiz. This route (Herod, iv. 23,24) recognises the passage of the Ural from W. toE., and indicates another chain more to the E. andmore elevated — that of the A Itai. These chains,it is true, are not designated by any special names,but Herodotus was not acquainted even in Europewith the names of the Alps and Bhipnean moun­tains; and a comparison of the order in which thepeoples are arranged, as well as the relief and de­scription of the country, shows that much definiteinformation had been already attained. Advancingfrom the Palus Maeotis, which was supposed to be offar larger dimensions than it really is, in a centraldirection towards the NE., the first people foundoccupying the plains are the " Black-clothed" Me-i.axihlak.ni. then the Bidini, Tiiyssaoetae,the Icecak (who have been falsely identified withthe Turks), and finally, towards the E., a colonyof Scythians, who had separated themselves fromthe " Itoyal Scythians" (perhaps to barter gold andskins). Here the plains end, and the ground be­comes broken (AiOuinj icol t/m;x<i), rising intomountain*, at the foot of which are the Argipfaki,wlto have been identified from their long chins andhat noses with the Kalmucks or Mongolians byXirhuiir, Bockh, and others, to whom reference ismade by Mr. Grote. (ffi»(. of Greece, vol. iii. p. 320.)This identification has been disputed by Humboldt(comp. Cotmos, voL i. p. 353 note, 440, vol. ii. p. 141note, 202, trans.), who refers these tribes to theFinnUh rtock, assuming as a certain fact, on evi­dence which it is difficult to make out, that theMongolians who lived around Lake Baikal did notmove into Central Asia till the thirteenth century.Where the data are so few, for the language (theprinciple upon which the families of the human raceare marked off) may be said to be unknown, ethno­graphic analogies become very hazardous, and themore so in the case of nomad tribes, the same undersuch wide differences of time and climate. But ifthere be considerable difficulty in making out theanalogy of race, the local bearings of these tribesmay be laid down with tolerable certainty. Thecountry up to the Argippaei was well known to thetraders; a barrier of impassable mountains blockedup the way beyond. [Hvpekisorei.] The posi­tion of the Issedones, according to the indications oftlw route, must be assigned to the E. of Ichim inthe steppe of the central horde of the Kirghiz, andtlut of the Ariinaspi on the N. declivity of the Altai. The communication between the two peoplesfor the purpose of carrying on the gold trade wasprobably made through the plains at the NW. ex­tremity of the Altai, where the range juts out inthe form of a huge promontory. [E. B. J.] ISSICUS SINUS. [Issi's.] ISSUS Claa6s and 'Iffffoi', Xen. Anab. i. 2. § 24,and i. 4. § 1), a town of Cilicia, on the gulf of Issus('Iffo-i/cor ko'atos'). Herodotus calls the gulf ofIssus the gulf of Myriandros (iv. 38), from the townof Myriandros, which was on it. The gulf of Issus is now named the gulf of Is-kenderun or Scanderoon, from the town of Scan-deroon, formerly Alexandria ad Issum, on the eastside. It is the only large gulf on the southern sideof Asia Minor and on the Syrian coast, and it is animportant place in the systems of the Greek geo­graphers. This gulf runs in a NE. direction intothe land to the distance of 47 miles, measured nearlyat right angles to a line drawn from the promontoryMegarsus {Cape Karadash), on theCilician coast, tothe Bhosieus Scopulus (Rds-el-Khdnzir, or Uynzyr,as it has sometimes been written), on the Syriancoast; for these two capes are respectively the limitsof the gulf on the west and east, and 25 miles fromone another. The width immediately north of thecapes is somewhat less than 25 miles, but it does notdiminish much till we approach the northern extre­mity of the gulf. It seems certain that the ancientoutlet of the Pyramus was west of and close to CapeKaradash, where Beaufort supposes it to have been;and this is consistent witli the old prophecy [Vol. I.p. 620], that the alluvium of the Pyramus wouldsome time reach to tho shore of Cyprus; for if theriver had entered the gulf where it does now, 23miles further east, the prophecy would have beenthat it would fill up the gulf of Issus. For thoearth that the river formerly discharged into thesea is now sent into the gulf, where it " has pro­duced a plain of sand along the side of the gulf,somewhat similar in shape, and equal in size, to thatformed by the Ghiuk Sooyoo [Calycadnus, Vol. I.p. 483]; but the elbow where (he current thatsets round the gulf quits it, is obtuse and withoutany shoals. Perhaps the disappearance of the Ser-repolis of Ptolemy from the coast, may be accountedfor by the progressive advance of the shore into thegulf, which has left the ruins of that town somemiles inland" (Beaufort, Caramania, p. 296). Pto­lemy's Serraepolis (2«(5^ofiroA«), which he culls asmall place (nwfni°), is between Mallus, which is alittle east of Cape Megarsus, and Aegae or Ayuz.[Aegae.] The next city to Aegae on the coast isIssus, and this is the remotest city in this part ofCilicia which Ptolemy mentions. Xenophon alsospeaks of it as the last city of Cilicia on the road toSyria. The mountains which bound the gulf of Issusare described in the article Amanus. The boldBhosieus Scopulus (5400 feet high), where theSyrian Amanus terminates on the coast, may bodistinctly seen by the sailor when he is abreast ofSeleuceia (SetefkeK), at the mouth of the Calycadnus,a distance of 85 geographical miles (Beaufort). Asmall stream ilows into the head of the gulf ofIssus, and a few from the Anmnus enter the eastside, one of which, the Pinarus, is the Deli Tuchai;and tho other, the Carsus of Xenophon, is theSlerkts. The Amanus which descends to theBhosieus Scopulus, and the other branch of thoAinanus which shuts in the gulf of Issus on tho F 3