OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. £ity secured with walls, and commanded their inhabitants to taketheir arms. They also sent for a great many soldiers from Johnto assist them against me, if there should he occasion for them.Now John was at Gischala. Jonathan, therefore, and those thatwere with him, when they were departed from Tiberias, and assoon as they were come to Dabaritta, a village that lay in the ut­most parts of Galilee, in the great plain, they, about midnight,fell among the guards I had set, who both commanded them tolay aside their weapons, and kept them in bonds upon the placf,as I had charged them to do. This news was written to me byjl-evi, who had the command of that guard committed to him byme. Hereupon I said nothing of it for two days ; and, pretend­ing to know nothing about it, I sent a message to the people ofTiberias, and advised them to lay their arms aside, and to dis­miss their men, that they might go home. But, supposing thatJonathan, and those that were with him, were already arrived atJerusalem, they made reproachful answers to me ; yet was I notterrified thereby, but contrived another stratagem against them,for I did not think it agreeable with piety to kindle the fire ofwar against the citizens. As I was desirous to draw those menaway from Tiberias, I chose out ten thousand of the best of myarmed men, and divided them into three bodies, and ordered themto go privately, and lie still as an ambush, in the villages. Ialso led a thousand into another village, which lay indeed inthe mountains, as did the others, but only four furlongs distantfrom Tiberias, and gave order, that when they saw my signal,they should come down immediately; while I myself lay withiny soldiers in the sight of every body. Hereupon the peopleof Tiberias, at the sight of me, came running out of the cityperpetually, and abused me greatly. Nay, their madness wascome to that height, that they made a decent bier for me, and,standing about it, they mourned over me in the way of jestand sp6rt; and I could not but be myself in a pleasant humourupon the sight of this madness of theirs- 63. And now being desirous to catch Simon by a wile, andJoazar with him,"!1 sent a message to them, and desired them tocome a little way out of the city, with many of their friends toguard them ; for I said I would come down to them, and makea league with them, and divide the government of Galilee withthem. Accordingly, Simon was deluded on account of his im­prudence, and out of the hopes of gain, and did not delay to come;but Joazar, suspecting snares were laid for him, staid behind.So, when Simon was come out, and his friends with him for hisguard, I met him, and saluted him with great civility, and pro­fessed that I was obliged to him for his coming up to me: but a little