OCR Output B. I. INTRODUCTION. 21 Eleans, empty ships and money. And the number of shipsfitted out by themselves amounted to thirty and three thou­sand heavy armed. When the Corcyreans were informed of these prepara­tions, they went to Corinth, purposely accompanied by am­bassadors from Lacedaemon and Sicyon. There they chargedthe Corinthians " to fetch away their garrison and new set­tlement from Epidamnus, as having no manner of preten­sions there: That, if they had any thing to allege to the con­trary, they were willing to submit to a fair trial in Pelopon­nesus before such states as both sides should approve; andto whichever party the colony should be adjudged, by themit should be held." They also intimated " their readiness torefer the point in dispute to the oracle at Delphos ;—war, intheir own inclinations, they were quite against: But if itmust be so, on their sides-, (they said) mere necessity wouldprescribe the measure ; and if thus compelled to do it, theyshould for assistance have recourse to friends, not eligibleindeed, but better able to serve them than such as they alreadyhad." The Corinthians answered, that " if they would with­draw their fleet and their Barbarians from before Epidamnus,they would then treat of an accommodation; but, till this wasdone, their honour would not suffer them to submit to a re­ference, whilst their friends were undergoing the miseries ofa siege." The Corcyreans replied, that " if they would recalltheir people from Epidamnus, themselves also would do thelike ; but were ready further to agree, that both parties shouldremain in their present situation, under a suspension of arms,till the affair could be judicially determined." The Corinthians were not only deaf to every proposal, butso soon as ever they had manned their ships and their allieswere come up, dispatching a herald before-hand to declarewar against the Corcyreans, and then weighing anchor witha force of seventy-five ships and two thousand heavy-armed,they stretched away for Epidamnus to make head againstthe Corcyreans. The commanders of this fleet were Aris- Vol. I. R