OCR Output 10 LIVY. ready described, they marched forth to battle. Man-lius commanded the right wing ; Decius the left. Atthe beginning the conflict was maintained with equalstrength on both sides, and with equal courage. After­wards, the Roman spearmen on the left wing, unable towithstand the violent push made by the Latines, re­treated to the principes. On this disorder happening,the consul Decius called to Marcus Valerius, with aloud voice, ' Valerius, we want the aid of the gods:as public pontiff of the Roman people, dictate to methe words in which I may devote myself for the le­gions.' The pontiff then directed him to take thegown called pretexta, and with his head covered andhis hand thrust up under the gown to his chin, stand­ing on a spear laid under, his feet to repeat thesewords: ' O Janus, Jupiter, Father Mars, Quirinus,Bellona, you Lares, you gods Novensiles,1 you godsIndigetes, you divinities, under whose dominion weand our enemies are, and you gods of the infernal re­gions, I beseech you, I adore you, I implore of you,that you may propitiously grant strength and victoryto the Roman* people, the Quirites, and affect theenemies of the Roman people, the Quirites, withterror, dismay, and death. In such manner as I haveexpressed in words, so do I devote the legions, and theauxiliaries of our foes, together with myself, to theinfernal gods, and to earth, for the republic of the Ro­mans, for the army, legions, and auxiliaries of theRoman people, the Quirites.' After he had utteredthese solemn words, he ordered his lictors to go toTitus Manlius, and to inform his colleague withoutdelay that he had devoted himself for the army. Thengirding himself in the Gabine cincture, and taking hisarms, he leaped on his horse, and plunged into themidst of the enemy. He appeared in the view of botharmies much more majestic than one of the humanrace, as if sent from heaven to expiate all the wrath of 1 The Novensiles were nine deities brought to Rome bythe Sabines : Lara, Vesta, Minerva, Feronia, Concord, Faith,Fortune, Chance, Health.