OCR Output SYBACUSAE. 1U59 SYRACU&AE. -•]>:ibts or forts, each of them occupied with atroug garrison, at intervals along the bloping pla-ao of Epipolae, while a fort had been also erectedt tbe important post of Karyalus, at the extremeof the heights. (Thuc. vii. 43.) So strongwas their position that Demosthenes despairedf carrying it bj day, and resolved upon a nightSack, in which he buccccded in carrying the fort: Euryalus, but was foiled in his attempt upon theb-r uatworks, and repulsed with heavy loss.J-»S.) V;\» fail ore of this attack was considered by De-*:iien*3 himself as decisive, and he advised the ira-ftlute abandonment of the siege. But the contraryIvice of Nicias prevailed; and even when increasing-'cr.ru in the Athenian camp had induced him*< to consent to a retreat, his superstitious fears,"if^i by u eclipse of the moon, again caused themftKlpone their departure. The consequences wereu!. The Syracusans now became rather the be-1'iri than the besieged, attacked the Athenian»t in the Great Harbour, and cut off and de-'jni the wh-'le of their right wing under Eury-i-imi, in the bay of Dascon. Elated with tliisthey sought nothing less than the capturetijfl whole armament, and began to block up theu:h of the Great Harbour, from Ortygia across tofr.mvrium, by mooring vessels across it. The->M*ns were now compelled to abandon all their1 foots and lines on the heights, and draw togetherf;.- trnjH as close to the naval cainp as possible;i!* they made a final effort to break through the■Tier at the entrance of the harbour. But thist-.iipt proved unsuccessful, and led to a completeof the Athenian fleet. There was now no■me but to retreat. The army under Nicias and:. Athene* broke up from its camp, and at firstrctrd their course along the valley of the Anapus,. ti*7 came to a narrow puss, commanded by asupttoos ridge called the Acraean ltock ('Anpaiovrat, Thuc. vii. 78), which had been occupied in by tbe Syracusans. Failing in forcing this:K ibe Athenians changed their line of retreat,1 f.>Ui»we*i the road to Helorus, but after forcing»aa'-e*sion, though not without heavy loss, thetarge of tbe two rivers Cacyparis and Erineus,1 rrai hing the banks of the Asinarus, the lastur irs of the Athenian army were compelled to<i"wn their anna. The whole number of pri­ori wag said to amount to 7000. A trophy wasr.n{ by the Syracusans on the bank of the Asi- *nd a festival culled the Asinaria institutednxnnmnonite their victory. (Thuc. vii. 78—87;■Lxai. IS, 19.) 1 Irf failure of the Athenian expedition againstutiar «eemed likely to secure to that city thepnttKuble superiority among the Greek coloniesNcilr. But a new and formidable power nowwand—the Carthaginians, who were invited bySrftatans to supjiort them against the Sclinnn-!t, bat who, not content with the destruction ofbits and iiimera (b. c 410), and with that of- _'Ttum (». r. 406), pushed forward theirt'.-ts with a view of making themselves mas-i <4 the whole Liland. Dionysius, then a youngi. fouk advantage of the alarm and excitementMd by tliis danger to raise himself to des-t pTwrr at Syracuse (b. c. 405), and he soont concluded a peace with the Carthaginians,» career of victory had been checked by a pesti-*. The history of the reign of Dionysius at Syracuse, which continued for a period of 38 years(b. c. 405—387), cannot be here related: it is brieflygiven in the Jiiogr. Diet., art. Dionysius, and veryfully in Grote's history of Greece, vols. x. and xi.;but its influence and effects upon the city itself mustbe here noticed. From a very early period ho turnedhis attention to the strengthening and fortification ofthe city, and constructed great works, partly with aview to the defence of the city against external inva­sion, partly for the security of his own power. Oneof his first operations was to convert the island ofOrtygia into a strong fortress, by surrounding it witha lofty wall, fortified with numerous towers, especiallyon the side where it adjoined the land, where heraised a strongly fortified front, called the Penta-pyla; while, for still further security, he constructedan interior fort or citadel within the island, whichbecame the acropolis of Syracuse, and at the sametime the residence of Dionysius and his successorsin the despotism. Adjoining this he constructedwithin the lesser port, or Portus Lacceius, docks forhis ships of war on a large scale, so as to be capableof receiving CO triremes: while they were enclosedwitli a wall, and accessible only by a narrow en­trance. But not content with this, he a few yearsafterwards added docks for 160 more ships, withinthe Great Port, in the recess or bight of it whichapproaches most nearly to the Portus Lacceius, andopened a channel of communication between the two.At the same time he adorned the part of the cityimmediately outside the island with porticoes andpublic buildings for the convenience of the citizens.(Diod. xiv. 7.) But his greatest work of all wasthe line of walls with which he fortified the heightsof Epipolae. The events of the Athenian siege hadsufficiently proved the vital importance of these tothe safety of the city; and hence before Dionysiusengaged in his great war with Carthage he deter­mined to secure their possession by a line of perma­nent fortifications. The walls erected for this pur­pose along the northern edge of the cliffs of Epipolae(extending from near Sta Panagia to the hill ofEuryalus, or Mongibellisi) were 30 stadia in length,and are said to have been erected by the labour ofthe whole body of the citizens in the short spate of20 days. (Diod. xiv. 18.) It is remarkable thatwe hear nothing of the construction of a similarwall along the southern edge of the plateau of Epi­polae ; though the table-land is at least as accessible onthis side as on the other; and a considerable suburbcalled Neapolis had already grown up on this side(Diod. xiv. 9), outside of the wall of Achradina,and extending over a considerable jKirt of the slope,which descends from the Temenitis towards themarshy plain of the Anapus. But whatever mayhave been the cause, it seems certain that Syracusecontinued till a later period to be but imperfectlyfortified on this side. The importance of the additional defences erectedby Dionysius was sufficiently shown in tho courseof the war with Carthage which began in B. c.397. In that war Dionysius at first carried hisarms successfully to the western extremity of Sicily,but fortune soon turned against him, and he wascompelled in his turn to shut himself up withinthe walls of Syracuse, and trust to the strength ofhis fortifications. The Carthaginian general Hi-milco entered the Great Port with his fleet, andestablished his head-quarters at the Olympieum,while he not only ravaged the country outside thewalls, but made himself master of one of the suburbs, 3 Y 2