OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL thousand feet, were united by two bridges of sixty and of thirty boats, connectedin the middle stream by the small island of Rouda, which was covered with gar­dens and habitations. (1) The eastern extremity of the bridge was terminated bythe town of Babylon and the camp of a Roman legion, which protected the pas­sage of the river and the second capital of Egypt. This important fortress,which might fairly be described as a part of Memphis or Misrah, was invested byIhe arms of the lieutenant of Omar: a re-enforcement of four thousand Saracenssoon arrived in his camp; and the military engines, which battered the walls,may be imputed to the art and labour of his Syrian allies. Yet the siege was pro­tracted to seven months; and the rash invaders were encompassed and threatenedby the inundation of the Nile.(2) Their last assault was bold and successful: theypassed the ditch, which had been fortified with iron spikes, applied their scaling-ladders, entered the fortress with the shout of God is victorious! and drove theremnant of the Greeks to their boats, and the isle of Rouda. The spot was af­terward recommended to the conqueror by the easy communication with the gulfand the peninsula of Arabia: the remains of Memphis were deserted; the tentsof the Arabs were converted into permanent habitations: and the first mosch wasblessed by the presenim of fourscore companions of Mahomet.(3) A new cityarose in their camp on the eastward bank of the Nile; and the contiguous quar­ters of Babylon and Fostat are confounded in their present decay by the appella­tion of old Misrah or Cairo, of which they form an extensive suburb. But thename of Cairo, the town of victory, more strictly belongs to the modern capitalwhich was founded in the tenth century by the Fatimite caliphs. (4) It has gra­dually receded from the river; but the continuity of buildings may be traced byan attentive eye from the monuments of Sesostris to those of Saladin.(5) Yet the Arabs, after a glorious and profitable enterprise, must have retreatedto the desert, had they not found a powerful alliance in the heart of the country.The rapid conquest of Alexander was assisted by the superstition and revolt ofthe natives; they abhorred their Persian oppressors, the disciples of the Magi,who had burnt the temples of Egypt, and feasted with sacrilegious appetite on theflesh of the god Apis. (6) After a period of ten centuries the same revolution wasrenewed by a similar cause: and in the support of an incomprehensible creed,the zeal of the Coptic Christians was equally ardent. I have already explainedthe origin and progress of the Monophysite controversy, and the persecution of theemperors, which converted a sect into a nation, and alienated Egypt from theirreligion and government. The Saracens were received as the deliverers of theJacobite church; and a secret and effectual treaty was opened during the siege ofMemphis between a victorious army and a people of slaves. A rich and nobleEgyptian, of the name of Mokawkas, had dissembled his faith to obtain the ad­ministration of his province; in the disorders of the Persian war he aspired to in­dependence; the embassy of Mahomet ranked him among princes; but he declined,with rich gifts and ambiguous compliments, the proposal of a new religion.(7)The abuse of his trust exposed him to the resentment of Heraclius; his submis­sion was delayed by arrogance and fear; and his conscience was prompted by in-proper Egypt, Ammianns enumerates Memphis among the four cities, maximis utbibns quibus provincia nilet;(22. 16.) and the name of Memphis appears with distinction in the Roman Itinerary and episcopal lists. (1) These rare and curious facts, the breadth (two thousand nine hundred and forty-six feet) and the bridgeof the Nile, are only to be found in the Danish traveller and the Nubian geographer, (p. 98.) (2) From the month of April, the Nile begins impeiceptibly to rise; the swell becomes strong and visible inthe moon after the summer solstice, (Piin. Hist. Nat 5. 10.) and is usually proclaimed at Cairo on St. Peter'sday. (June 29.) A register of thirty successive years marks the greatest height of the waters between Jury 25and August 18. (Maillet, Description de l'Egypte, letlre 11. p. 67, &c. Pocoek's Description of the East, vol.i. p. 200. Shaw's Travels, p. 383.) (3) Murtadi, MerreiUes de l'Egypte, 243 —259. He expatiates on the subject with the zeal and minutenessof a citizen and a bigot, and his local traditions have a strong air of truth and accuracy. (4) D'Herbelot,BibliotlieqtteOrientale, p. 233. (5) The position of New and Old Cairo is well known, and has been often described. Two writers, who wereintimately acquainted with ancient and modern Egypt, have fixed, after a learned inquiry, the city of Mem­phis at Gach, directly opposite the Old Cairo. (Sicard, Nouveaux Memoirs des Missions du Levant, torn. vi. p.S, 6. Shaw's Observations and Travels, p. 296—304.) Yet we may not disregard the authority or the argumentsufPocock. (vol. i. p. 25—41.) Niebuhr, (Voyage, tom.i. p. 77—106.) and, above all, of d'Anville, (Descriptionde l'Egypte, p. Ill, 112. 130—149.) who have removed Memphis towards the village of Mohannah, some milesfarther to the south. In their bear, the disputants have forgot that the ample space of a metropolis covers andannihilates the far greater part of the controversy. (6) See Herodotus, lib. in. c. 27—29. jE'ian Hist. Var. lib. iv. c. 8. Suidas, in £!%».-, torn. ii. p. 774. Diodor.Sictil. torn. ii. lib. xvii. p. 197. edit. Wesseling. Tov Ilsprav w-&wrm it; t« nf«, says the last of these historians.. (») Mi.kawkas sent the prophet two Coptic damsels, with two maids, and one eunuch, an alabaster vase, aningot of pure gold, oil. honey, and ilie finest white linen of Egypt, with a hone, a mule, and an ass, distin­guished by iheir respective qualifications. The embassy of Mahumet was despatched from Medina its the se­venth year of the Hegira. (A. D. 623.) See Gaguier, (Viede Mahomit, torn. ii. p. 255,256.303.) from Al JannaVi.