OCR Output 478 THE DECLINE AND FALL I their pretensions after they had lost their power. Credulity per­formed the office of faith; fanaticism was permitted to assume thelanguage of inspiration, and the effects of accident or contrivancewere ascribed to supernatural causes. The recent experience ofgenuine miracles mould have instructed the Christian world in theways of providence, and habituated their eye (if we may use avery inadequate expression) to the style of the divine artist. Shouldthe most skilful painter of modern Italy presume to decorate hisfeeble imitations with the name of Raphael or of Correggio, the in­solent fraud would be soon discovered and indignantly rejected.Use of the Whatever opinion may be entertained of the miracles of themiracles? primitive church since the time of the apostles, this unresisting soft­ness of temper, so conspicuous among the believers of the secondand third centuries, proved of some accidental benefit to the cause oftruth and religion. In modern times, a latent and even involuntaryscepticism adheres to the most pious dispositions. Their admissionof supernatural truths, is much less an active consent than a coldand passive acquiescence. Accustomed long since to observe and torespect the invariable order of Nature, our reason, or at least ourimagination, is not sufficiently prepared to sustain the visible actionof the Deity. But in the first ages of Christianity, the situation ofmankind was extremely different. The most curious, or the mostcredulous, among the pagans, were often persuaded to enter into asociety, which asserted an actual claim of miraculous powers. Theprimitive Christians perpetually trod on mystic ground, and theirminds were exercised by the habits of believing the most extraor­dinary events. They felt, or they fancied, that on every side theywere incessantly assaulted by dæmons, comforted by visions, in­structed by prophecy, and surprisingly delivered from dan­ger, sickness, and from death itself, by the supplications of thechurch. The real or imaginary prodigies, of which they so fre--quently conceived themselves to be the objects, the instruments, or