OCR Output ft. M. TEAR III. BEFORE CHRIST 429. 201 the greater part were foot, but about a third of them werehorse. The greatest share of the horse was provided by theOdrysians, and next to them by the Getae. Of the foot,the free Thracians that came from about mount Rhodope,and used scimetars^ were the most valiant: All the rest thatfollowed were a mixt crowd, formidable only in their num­ber. All these therefore were got together at Doberus, andpreparing to break in to the lower Macedonia, subject toPerdiccas, under the ridge of the mountains. For in thegeneral name of Macedonians are comprised the Lynces-tians and Helimiotians, and other nations lying upwards,allied to and dependent upon the rest, yet governed as dis­tinct kingdoms. The dominion over the maritime Mace­donia was first obtained by Alexander, father of Perdiccas,and his ancestors the Temenidae, who derived their originalfrom Argos. These, by a successful war, had driven thePierians out of Pieria, who afterwards fixed their residenceat Phagres under mount Pangaeus, on the other side theStrymon, and at other places ; for which reason, the tractof ground lying under Pangaeus towards the sea is still calledthe gulf of Pieria. From the region called Bottia they alsoexpelled the Bottiaeans, who now live upon the confines ofthe Chalcideans. And further, they seized in Paeonia, nearthe river Axius, a narrow tract of land running along fromthe mountains down to Pella, and the sea; and got posses­sion of that which is called Mygdonia, lying between theAxius and the Strymon, by driving away the Edonians.They expelled the Eordians out of what is now called Eordia(of whom the greatest part were destroyed, but a smallnumber dwell now about Physca); and out of Almopia, theAlmopians. These Macedonians also conquered other na­tions, of which they are still in possession, as Anthemus,Grestonia, and Bisaltia, and a large part of the territoriesbelonging to the other Macedonians. But this whole tractof country hath the general name of Macedonia, and Per­diccas, son of Alexander, reigned over them when Sitalce*formed this invasion.