OCR Output CHAP. 46. ROMAN HISTORY. 377 them in the city, their desire of commanding alone be­ing not in the least abated, broke out with still greaterfury in the camp. In sentiment they never agreed;and each stuck inflexibly to his own.; Each was for ,having no counsels followed, and no orders executed buthis own. The only point agreed in, was a sovereigncontempt for each other; till upon a remonstrance fromtheir lieutenant-generals, matters were so ordered, thatthey were to command each his day alternately-*'' \Vhen these accounts came to Rome, Servilins, whoseexperience was equal to his years, is said to have im­plored the gods, that the discord of the tribunes mightnot prove more fatal to the commonwealth, than it hadbeen at Veii: and as if he had seen that some great ca­lamity was at hand, he pressed his soji to make levies,-and be ready to take the'field. He was not mistaken.Sergius, on one of the days, when he' commanded inchief, was drawn by a feigned retreat of the ZEqui, intoa steep and disadvantageous ground close under theirlines, vainly imagining he would make himself masterof iheir camp. By a sudden sally from the canty, theJRqai drove them down the precipice, nudjmore of themwere dashed to pieces by the^weight of the fall down thedeclivity, than fell by the precipitancy of their flight.With much difficulty the Romans kept possession of theircamp that day; and the next, when they ^aw themselvesinvested almost on every side by the enemy, they madetheir escape out at a back gate and shamefully aban­doned it. The generals with thtir lieutenants, and thebest troops, that did not quit the ensigns, retired to Tus-culum, whilst the rest, dispersing- themselves about thecountry, came to Rome by different ways, and repre­sented their loss much greater than it really was. At Rbme the alarm was less, both because in -theirfears they had anticipated all that happened, and youngServilius had got together a new body of recruits to as­sist them upon occasion. The inferior magistrates also,by his order quieted the commotions in the city; and thecouriers who had been -.lispatch«d to inform themselvesof the state of the armies, brought advice, that the ge­neral* and their troops were at Tusculum, and that theenemy still continued in their old-camp. But what re».