OCR Output c. vn.] VESPASIAN. 31 water would in no long time be emptied, and that they wouldbe forced then to deliver up the city to him: but Josephusbeing minded to break such his hope, gave command that theyshould wet a great many of their clothes, and hang them aboutthe battlements, till the entire wall was of a sudden all wetwith the running down of the water. At this sight the Ro­mans were discouraged and under consternation, when theysaw them able to throw away in sport so much water, whenthey supposed them not to have enough to drink themselves.This made the Roman general despair of taking the city bytheir want of necessaries, and to betake himself again to arms,and to try to force them to surrender, which was what theJews greatly desired: for as they despaired of either them­selves or the city's being able to escape, they preferred a deathin battle before one by hunger and thirst. 14. However, Josephus contrived another stratagem besidesthe foregoing to get plenty of what they wanted. Therewas a certain rough and uneven place that could hardly beascended, and on that account was not guarded by the sol­diers : so Josephus sent out certain persons along the westernparts of the valley, and by them sent letters to whom hepleased of the Jews that were out of the city, and procuredfrom them what necessaries soever they wanted in the city inabundance: he enjoined them also to creep generally alongby the watch, as they came into the city, and to cover theirbacks with such sheep-skins as had their wool upon them, thatif any one should spy them out in the night-time, they mightbe believed to be dogs. This was done till the watch per­ceived the contrivance, and encompassed that rough placeabout themselves. 15. And now it was that Josephus perceived that the citycould not hold out long, and that his own life would be indoubt if he continued in it; so he consulted how he and themost potent men of the city might fly out of it. When themultitude understood this, they came all round about him,and begged of him " not to overlook them, while they entirelydepended on him, and him alone; for that there was stillhope of the city's deliverance if he would stay with them, be­