OCR Output NOTES ON THE THIRD CHAPTER. to the emperor, and his most successful lieutenantswere satisfied with some marks of distinction, which,under the name of triumphal honours, were invent­ed in their favour. [n] Cicero {de Legibus, iii. 3.) gives the con­sular office the name of Regia poteftas: and Poly-bius (1. vi. c. 3.) observes three powers in the Ro­man constitution. The monarchical was representedand exercised by the Consuls. [12] As the tribunitian power (distinct from theannual office) was first invented for the dictatorCaesar (Dion, 1. xliv. p. 3^4.), we may easily con­ceive, that it was given as a reward for having sonobly asserted, by arms, the sacred rights of thetribunes and people. See his own commentaries,deBell. Civil. 1. i. [13] Augustus exercised nine annual consulshipswithout interruption. He then most artfully re­fused that magistracy as well as the dictatorstn'p,absented himself from Rome, and waited till the fa­tal effects of tumult and faction forced the senate toinvest him with a perpetual consulship. Augustus,as well as his successors, affected, however, to con­ceal so invidious a title. [14] See a fragment of a Decree of the Senate,conferring on the emperor Vespasian, all the powersgranted to his predecessors, Augustus, Tiberius,and Claudius. This curious and important monu­ment is published in Gruter's Inscriptions, No.ccxlii. [15] Two consuls were created on the Calendsof January; but in the course of the year otherswere substituted in their places, till the annual num­ber seems to have amounted to no less than twelve.The prætors were usually sixteen or eighteen (Lip-sius in Excurs. D. ad Tacit. Annal. 1. i.). I havenot mentioned the Ædiles or Qu.rstors. Officersof the police or revenue easily adapt themselvesto any form of government. In the time of Nerothe tribunes legally possessed the right of intercijjion,though it might be dangerous to exercise it ( sacit.Annal. xvi. 26.). In the time of Trajan, it wasdoubtful whether the tribuneihip was an office or aname (Plin. Epist. 133.). [16] The tyrants themselves were ambitious ofthe consulship. The virtuous princes were mo­ derate in the pursuit, and exact in the discharge ofit. Trajan revived the ancient oath, and swore be­fore the consul's tribunal, that he would observethe laws (Plin. Panegyric, c. 64.). [17] Quoties Magistratuum Comitus interesset,tribus cum candidatis suis circuibat: supplicabat-'que more solemni. Ferebat et ipse suffragium intribubus, ut unus e populo. Suetonius in August,c S6. [18] Turn primum Comitia e campo ad patrestranflata sunt. Tacit. Annal. i. 15. The wordfrimum seeins to allude to some faint and unsuccess­ful efforts, which were made towards restoring themto the people. [19] Dion Caffius (1. liii. p. 703—714.) hasgiven a very loose and partial sketch of the Imperialsystem. 7o illustrate and often to correct him, Ihave meditated Tacitus, examined Suetonius, andconsulted the following moderns: the Abbe de'la Bleterie, in the Memoires de l'Academie des In­scriptions, torn. xix. xxi. xxiv. xxv. xxvii. Beau­fort Republique Romaine, torn. i. p. 255 —27c.Two Dissertations of Noodt and Gronovius, dt ItgeRegia; printed at Leyden, in the year 1731.Gravina de Imperio Romano, p. 479—544 of hisOpuscula. Maffei Verona Illustrata, p. i. p. 245.&c. [20] A weak prince will always be governed byhis domestics. The power of slaves aggravated theshame of the Romans; and the senate paid courtto a Pallas or a Narcissus. There is a chance that amodern favourite may be a gentleman. [21] See a treatise of Vandale de ConfecrationePrincipum. It would be easier for me to copy,than it has been to verify, the quotations of thatlearned Dutchman. [22] See a dissertation of the Abbe Mongault inthe first volume of the Academy of Inscriptions. [23] Jutandasque tuum per nomen ponimusaraj, fays Horace to the emperor himself, and Ho­race was well acquainted with the court of Au­gustus. [24] See Cicero in Philippic, i. 6. Julian inCæsaribus. Inque Deum templis jurabit Roma perb z umbras,