OCR Output Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 235 was, it being natural to men to suspect that what is thus con­cealed, is very bad: so upon his threatening, and forcing themby terrors to speak, they at length told him the truth; where­upon he shed many tears, in that disorder of mind which arosefrom his consciousness of what he had done, and gave a deepgroan, and said, "I am not therefore, I perceive, to be con-"cealed from God, in the impious and horrid crimes I have"been guilty of, but a sudden punishment is coming upon me"for the shedding the blood of my relations. And now, O"thou most impudent body of mine, how long wilt thou re-"tain a soul that ought to die, in order to appease the ghosts"of my brother, and my mother? Why dost thou not give it"all up at once? And why do I deliver up my blood drop by"drop, to those whom I have so wickedly murdered?" In say­ing which last words, he died, having reigned a year. He wascalled a lover of the Grecians, and had conferred many benefitson his own country, and made war against Iturea, and added agreat part of it to Judea, and compelled the inhabitants, if theywould continue in that country, to be circumcised, and to liveaccording to the Jewish laws. He was naturally a man of can­dour, and of great modesty, as Strabo bears witness, in thename of Timagenes; who says thus; "This man was a person"of candour, and very serviceable to the Jews, for he added a"country to them, and obtained a part of the nation of the Itu-"reans for them, and bound them to them by the bond of the"circumcision of their genitals." CHAP. XII. Hew Alexander, when he had taken the government, made anexpedition against Ptolemais, and then raised the siege out offear of Ptolemy Lathyrus: and how Ptolemy made war againsthim, because he had sent to Cleopatra to persuade her to makewar against Ptolemy, and yet pretended to be in friendshipwith him, when he beat the Jews in the battle. 1. VV HEN Aristobulus was dead, his wife Salome, who,by the Greeks, was called Alexandra, let his brethren out ofprison, for Aristobulus had kept them in bonds, as we have saidalready, and made Alexander Janneus king, who was the supe­rior in age and in moderation. This child happened to behated by his father as soon as he was born, and could never bepermitted to come into his father's sight till he died. The oc­casion of which hatred is thus reported: When Hyrcanus chieflyloved the two eldest of his sons, Anjigonus and Aristobulus,God appeared to him in his sleep, of whom he inquired, whichVOL. n. oc 23