OCR Output Chap. III.] THE REVOLUTION AND GAIUS «3RACCHUS. 113 banished his property, so far as it was not exhausted insatisfying claims for compensation and fines. Lastly, in the matter of debt Gaius Gracchus made noalteration. But very respectable authorities assert, that heheld out to those in debt the hope of a diminution orremission of claims; which, if it is correct, must likewisebe reckoned among those popular measures of a radicalstamp. While Gracchus thus leaned on the support of the multi- Prominenttude, which partly expected, partly received from him a "cogintionmaterial improvement of its position, he laboured with equal Jrian'ordeTenergy at the ruin of the aristocracy. Perceiving clearlyhow insecure was the power of the head of the state ifbased merely on the proletariate, he applied himself aboveall to split the aristocracy, and to draw a part of it over to hisinterests. The elements of such a rupture were already inexistence. The aristocracy of the rich, which had risen asone man against Tiberius Gracchus, consisted in fact of twoessentially dissimilar bodies, which may be in some mea­sure compared to the peerage and the city aristocracy ofEngland. The one embraced the practically close circle ofthe governing senatorial families who kept aloof from directspeculation and invested their immense capital partly inlanded property, partly as sleeping partners in the greatcompanies. The main body of the second class was com­posed of the speculators, who, as managers of these compa­nies or on their own account, conducted the mercantile andmoneyed transactions throughout the whole range of theRoman hegemony. We have already shown (ii. 386 et seq.)how the latter class, especially in the course of the sixthcentury, gradually took its place by the side of the sena­torial aristocracy, and how the legal exclusion of thesenators from mercantile pursuits by the Claudian ordinance,suggested by Gaius I'laminius the precursor of the Gracchi,drew an outward line of demarcation between the senatorsand the mercantile and moneyed men. In the presentepoch the mercantile aristocracy began, under the name ofthe " equestrian order," to exercise a decisive influence inpolitical affairs. This appellation, which originally belongedonly to the burgess-cavalry on service, came gradually to betransferred, at least in ordinary use, to all those who, aspossessors of an estate of at least 400,000 sesterces, wereliable to cavalry service in general, and thus comprehended vol. m. i