OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VII.-—BETORE CHRIST 425. 299 About the same season of the spring, before the cornwas fully grown, the Peloponnesians and allies made theirinroad into Attica. Agis, the son of Archidamus, king ofthe Lacedaemonians, commanded. They fixed their camp,and ravaged the country. The Athenians now sent out to sea the forty ships alreadyprepared for the Sicilian voyage, under the command ofEurymedon and Sophocles, who stayed behind to bring upthis reinforcement, since Pythodorus the third in the com­mission was already in his post at Sicily. They had ordersalso in the course of the voyage to touch at Corcyra, andprovide effectually for the preservation of those in the city,who were sadly infested by the outlaws posted on the moun­tain. Sixty sail of the Peloponnesians were now upon thatcoast, to act in support of those on the mountain, who, asthe city was sorely oppressed with famine, presumed theyshould with ease carry all before them. Demosthenes fur­ther, who had been in no public employ since his returnfrom Acarnania, procured leave to go on board this fleet withauthority to employ it on the coast of Peloponnesus, if hejudged it for the service. When they were got to the height of Laconia, intelli­gence is brought them, that " the Peloponnesian fleet is now" in Corcyra." Eurymedon and Sophocles were for makingthe best of their way thither. But it was the advice of De­mosthenes to go first to Pylus, and after they had securedthat place, to proceed in their voyage. This was positivelyrefused; but it so happened, that a storm arose which drovethe whole fleet to Pylus. Demosthenes insisted that theyshould immediately fortify the place, since this was themotive of his attendance in the fleet. He shewed them,that " there was at hand plenty of timber and stone for the" work ; that, beside the strength of its natural situation, the" place itself was barren, as was also the greatest part of the" adjacent country." For Pylus lies at the distance of aboutfour hundred stadia* from Sparta, in the district which was• About forty English miles.