OCR Output CHAP. xLTir. oa and Cyprus; and their numbers, with those of the Jaco­bites, were computed to surpass the Greek and Latincommunions.* Twenty-five metropolitans or archbishopscomposed their hierarchy; but several of these were dis­pensed, by the distance and danger of the way, from theduty of personal attendance, on the easy condition thatevery six years they should testify their faith and obe-'dience to the Catholic or patriarch of Babylon, a vagueappellation, which has been successively applied to theroyal seats of Seleucia, Ctesiphon, and Bagdad. Theseremote branches are long since Withered, and the oldpatriarchal trunk0 is now divided by the Elijahs of Mo­sul, the representatives, almost in lineal descent, of thegenuine and primitive succession, the Josephs of Amida,%ho are reconciled to the church of Rome/ atid theSimeons of Van or Ortnia, whose revolt at the head offorty thousand families was promoted in the sixteenthcentury by the Sophists of Persia. The number of threehundred thousand is allowed for the whole body of theNestorians, who, under the name of Chaldeans or As­syrians, are confounded with the most lefcrined or themoat powerful nation of eastern antiquity.The Chris- According to the legend of antiquity, the go3-tians of St. pel was preached in India by St. Thomas.* Atindu. the end of the ninth century, his shrine, perhapsA. D. t»3, JQ ^ neighbourhood of Madras, was devoutlyvisited by the ambassadors of Alfred, and their return J Jacobite et NestoWail* prafesqiiam Graeci el Latini. Jacob a Vitriac6i Hist.Hlerosol. lib. 2. e. 16. p. 1093. in the Gesta Dei per Francos. The numbers aregiven by Thomassin, Discipline de 1'Eglise, torn. t. p. 17'.'.. * The division of the patriarchate may be traced in the BrbHotbeca Oriehu of A*-Fcmanni, torn. 1. p. 523—549. torn. 2. p. 457, &c. torn. 3. p. 603. p. 621—623.torn. 4. p. 164-^169. p. 443. p. 622—6*9, etc. 'The pompous language of Rome, on the submission of a Nestorian patriarch, iselegafifly representedih the seventh book of Pra-Paolo, Babylon, Nineveh, Arbera,and the trophies of Alexander, Tauris, and Ecbatana, the Tigris and Indus. S The Indian missionary St. Thomas, an apostle, a Manichaan, or an Armenianmerchant, ( La Croze, Ghristianisme des Indcs, torn. 1. p. 57—70.) was famous,howeveT) as early as the time of Jerome, (ad Mercelium, cpist. 148.) MarcoPolo was infomied oil the spot that he suffered martyrdom in thc city of Malabar',dr HefiapOur, a league only from Madras, (d'Anville, Eclaircissemens sUT 1'lnde,f l§5.y where the fbrtugaese founded .aa episcopal church under the name ofSt. 'Chomp, add where the saint performed an annual miracle, till he was silencedby the profane neighbourhood of the English. (La Cioze, torn. 2. p. 7—16.) vi. F