OCR Output 310 ROMAN EMPIRE. the words and looks of the prophet, by the eagernesswith which they collected his spittle, a hair that drop­ped on the ground, the refuse water of his lustrations,as if they participated in some degree of the propheticvirtue. / have seen (said he) the Chosroes of Persia andthe Ccesar of Rome, but never did I behold a king amonghis subjects like Mahomet among his companions. Thedevout fervour of enthusiasm acts with more energy andtruth than the cold and formal servility of courts.He de' In the state of nature every man has a right tociares war defend, by force of arms, his person and his pos- agamst . J 'l r the infi- sessions; to repel, or even to prevent, the vio­lence of his enemies, and to extend his hostili­ties to a reasonable measure of satisfaction and retalia­tion. In the free society of the Arabs, the duties ofsubject and citizen imposed a feeble restraint; anot Ma­homet, in the exercise of a peaceful and benevolent mis­sion, had been despoiled and banished by the injusticeof his countrymen. The choice of an independent peo­ple had exalted the fugitive of Mecca to the rank of asovereign; and he was invested with the just preroga­tive of forming alliances, and of waging offensive or de­fensive war. The imperfection of human rights was sup­plied and armed by the plenitude of divine power: theprophet of Medina assumed, in his new revelations, afiercer and more sanguinary tone, which proves that hisformer moderation was the effect of weakness :b the meansof persuasion had been tried, the season of forbearance waselapsed, and he was now commanded to propagate his re­ligion by the sword, to destroy the monuments of idola­try, and without regarding the sanctity of days ormonths,to pursue the unbelieving nations of the earth. Thesame bloody precepts, so repeatedly inculcated in theKoran, are ascribed by the author to the Pentateuch and h The eighth and ninth chapters of the Koran are the loudest and most vehement;and Maracci (Prodromus, part 4. p. 59—64.)has inveighed with more justice thandiscretion against the double dealing of the impostor.