OCR Output 116 [A/U.C.77I. THE ANNALS The civility of the prince, he said, was shown, notto the men of Athens (a race long since extirpated,)but to a vile heterogeneous mass, the scum of variousnations, at one time in league with Mithridates againstSylla, and afterwards with Marc Antony against Au­gustus. Ho went back to the times of Philip of Mace-don ; condemning, in terms of reproach, not onlytheir feeble exertions in their struggle with that mo­narch, but also the ingratitude of a giddy populace totheir best and ablest citizens. To this behaviour Pisowas instigated by a private pique against the Athe­nians. It happened that one Theophilus was con­demned for forgery by the judgment of the Areopa­gus: Piso endeavoured to gain a pardon for this man,but that upright judicature was inflexible. After this prelude to the scenes which he was stillto act, Piso embarked, and after a quick passagethrough the Cyclades, arrived at Rhodes. While helay at the mouth of the harbour, a storm arose, anddrove the vessel on the point of a rock. Germanicuswas then at Rhodes. He knew the hostilities thathad been already commenced against himself, andmight have left a man of that dangerous character tothe mercy of the winds and waves; but, acting withhis usual benevolence, he sent off boats and galleys tosave even an enemy from destruction. Gratitude wasnot in the character of Piso. He spent but a singleday with his benefactor; and to take his measures be­forehand, proceeded on his way to Syria. Havingreached that place, he began by bribery, by intrigueand cabals, to draw to himself the affections of the le­gions. He caressed the lowest of the soldiers: he dis­missed the centurions of approved experience, andremoved all the tribunes, who supported military disci­pline , substituting in their room his own dependants,and still worse, the vile and profligate, who had no­thing but their crimes to recommend them. Slothprevailed in the camp; licentiousness diffused itselfthrough the cities; and over the face of the countrynothing was seen but a dissipated and disorderlyband of soldiers. By these practices Piso rose into