OCR Output 44 VESPASIAN. [B. III. males now remaining besides infants, which, with the women,were carried as slaves into captivity: so that the number ofthe slain both now in the city and at the former fight wasfifteen thousand, and the captives were two thousand onehundred and thirty. This calamity befell the Galileans onthe twenty-fifth day of the month Desius [Sivan.] 32. Nor did the Samaritans escape their share of misfor­tunes at this time; for they assembled themselves togetherupon the mountain called Gerizzim, which is with them aholy mountain, and there they remained : which collection oftheirs, as well as the courageous minds they showed, couldnot but threaten somewhat of war; nor were they renderedwiser by the miseries that had come upon their neighboringcities. They also, notwithstanding the great success the Ro­mans had, marched on in an unreasonable manner, dependingon their own weakness, and were disposed for any tumultupon its first appearance. Vespasian, therefore, thought itbest to prevent their motions, and to cut off the foundationof their attempts; for although all Samaria had ever garrisonssettled among them, yet did the number of those that werecome to Mount Gerizzim, and their conspiracy together, giveground for fear what they would be at: he, therefore, sentthither Cerealis, the commander of the fifth legion, with sixhundred horsemen and three thousand footmen, who did notthink it safe to go up the mountain and give them battle, be­cause many of the enemy were on the higher part of theground ; so he encompassed all the lower part of the mountainwith his army, and watched them all that day. Now it hap­pened that tho Samaritans, who were now destitute of water,were inflamed with a violent heat (for it was summer-time,and the multitude had not provided themselves with necessa­ries,) insomuch that some of them died that very day withheat, while others of them preferred slavery before such adeath as that was, and fled to the Romans ; by whom Cerealisunderstood that those which still stayed there were very muchbroken by their misfortunes. So he went up tho mountain,and having placed his forces round about the enemy, he, inthe first place, exhorted them to take the security of his right