OCR Output ah. 1487.] 153 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. whenever we wanted that assistance, accord­ing to his command; it is but just, now allour difficulties are over, that you should bepermitted to enjoy rest, and that we shouldtrespass on your alacrity to help us no longer;that so, if we should again stand in need ofit, we may readily have it on any futureemergency, and not tire you out so muchnow, as may make you slower in assisting usanother lime. We therefore return you thanksfor the dangers you have undergone with us;and we do it not at this time only, but weshall always be disposed to remember ourfriends, and to preserve in mind what advan­tages we have had from them, and how youhave put off the enjoyment of your own hap­piness for our sakes, and have laboured forwhat we have now, by the good will of God,obtained; and resolved not to enjoy your ownprosperity till you had afforded us that as­sistance. However, you have, by joining yourlabours with ours, gotten great plenty ofriches, and will carry home with you muchprey, with gold and silver, and, what is morethan all these, our good will towards you, anda mind willingly disposed to make a requitalof your kindness, in what case soever youshall desire it; for you have not omitted anything which Moses previously required ofyou, nor have you despised him, because hewas dead and gone from you, so that thereis nothing to diminish that gratitude whichwe owe you. We therefore dismiss you joy­ful to your own inheritances, and intreat youto suppose that there is no limit to be set tothe intimate relation that is between us; andthat you will not imagine, that because thisriver is interposed between us, that you areof a different race from us, and not Hebrews;for we are all the posterity of Abraham, bothwe that inhabit here, and you that inhabitthere; and it is the same God who broughtour forefathers, and yours, into the world;whose worship and form of government weare to take care of, which he has ordained,and are most carefully to observe; because,while you continue in those laws, God willalso shew himself merciful and assisting toyou; but if you imitate the other nations, andforsake those laws, he will reject your na­tion."* When Joshua had spoken thus, and * Josh. xxii. 1—6. had saluted them all, both those in authority,one by one, and the whole multitude in com­mon, he himself stayed where he was; butthe people conducted these tribes on theirjourney, and that not without tears in theireyes; and, indeed, they hardly knew how topart one from the other. Now when the tribe of Reubel, and that ofGad, and as many of the Manassites as fol­lowed them, were passed over the river, theybuilt an altart on the banks of Jordan, as amonument to posterity, and as a sign of theirrelation to those that should inhabit on theother side. But when those on the other sideheard that those who had been dismissed hadbuilt an altar, but did not hear with what in­tention they built it, but supposed it to be byway of innovation, and for the introduction ofstrange gods, they did not incline to disbe­lieve it, but thinking this defamatory report,as if it were built for divine worship, wascredible, they appeared in arms, as thoughthey would avenge themselves upon thosethat built the altar, and they were about topass over the river, and to punish them fortheir subversion of the laws of their country:for they did not think it fit to regard them onaccount of their kindred, or the dignity ofthose that had given the occasion, but to re­gard the will of God, and the manner whereinhe desired to be worshipped; so these menput themselves in array for war; but Joshua,and Eleazar the high-priest, and the senaterestrained them, and persuaded them first tomake trial by words of their intention; andafterwards, if they found that their intentionwas evil, then only to proceed to make warupon them. Accordingly, they sent as am­bassadors to them Phineas. the son of Eleazar,and ten more persons that were in esteemamong the Hebrews, to learn what was intheir mind, when, upon passing over the river,they had built an altar upon its banks. But, assoon as these ambassadors were passed over,and were come to them, and a congregationwas assembled, Phineas stood up, and said,"The offence you have been guilty of is oftoo heinous a nature to be punished by wordsalone, or by them only to be amended forthe future. Yet we do not so look at theheinousness of your transgression, as to have t Josh. xxii. 10. s