OCR Output SUMATIA. 1047 SUN1UM. ahno" (Ovid, Fait. ir. 81, Triit. iv. 10.3, Amor,i 16: SiL Ital. riii. 511.) Its territory «.•« fertile,v.3 in com and wine, undone district of it, the Pagasfilauua, u particularly mentioned by Pliny (xvii.!i s. 43) f r the care bestowed on the irrigation of'j» vineyards. Ilie remains of the ancient city are of little in­law: as ruins, bat indicate the existence of a con-Lgtrxble town ; among them are the vestiges of an- : ■ totre. a theatre, and thermae, all of them • *i.iot the gates of the modern city. About 2 Iran thence, at the foot of the Monte Morrow,Aiome ruins of reticulated masonry, probably thoseI • Roman rills, which has been called, without the4;Mest reason or authority, that of Ovid. (Roma-ali.nL ii>. pp. 139, 161; Craven's Abruczi, vol. ..p. a.) NUme was distant seven miles from Corfinium, ast Irani both from the Tabula and from Caesar.Cars. B. C. i. 18; Tab. Peut.) Ovid tells us thati vm 90 miles from Home (Triit. iv. 10. 4), atairment evidently meant to be precise. The actual.met by the highroad would he 94 miles; via.'0 to Cenennia, 17 from thence to Corfinium, and 7mi Corfinium to Sulrao. (D'Anville. JW. Geogr.a lllalm, pp. 175,179.) There was, however, pro-a*iy a branch road to Sulmo. after passing the Mnnsbrr.i. avoiding the detour by Corfinium. [E. H. 8.]HA 11A (S.M-uaTio. Paus. viii. 3. § 4; Steph.5.1 r.; SoOTiaria. Pans. viii. 36. § 7: Sovitarnnv,hw. viii. 27. § 3; 2oo/itjTf m, Stepb. B. i. ".), a■n of Arcadia in the district Macnalia, on the•aunern slope of Mt. Maenalus. It was probablya the somniit of the hill now called Sylimna, whereaw* are some remains of polygonal walls, (l^ake,vVm, voL it p. 51; Koss, Peloponnei. p. 120.) HMMON'TORIUM, a place in Vindelicia {It.lal p. 277), where, according to the Notitia Im­am, the commander of the 3rd legion was stationed.» rurt site is uncertain. (I.. S.J SUMMUS PYRENAEUS. One of the passes ofc* name mentioned in the Antonine Itin. and thefibls was on the road from Narbo (A'aroonne) to^rxsria (Junqvera) in Spain. The road passed from>•■•> through Ad Centuriones and Ad Stabulum;at the distances in the Itins. are not correct; nor ismi distance in the Itin. correct from Summus Pyre-m to Juncaria. The pass, however, is wellurked; and it is the Col de Pertui, which is com-aunicd by the fort of BtUtgardt. This is the roodJ »hich Hannibal entered Gallia, and the ltomannaies marched from (jalUa into Spain. A seconda* named Summus Pyrenaeusin the Antonine Itin.won the road from Beneharnum [Bkxeiiar.ni.m]■ Aqaitania to Caesaraugusta (Saragosa) in Spain.If road went through Iluro (OUron) and Ah pa<ra [Aspa Litca] and Forum Ligneuin [FobumJttsara], which is 5 from Summus Pyrenaeas.hu road follows the Gave dAipe from Oltrron;«i on reaching the head of the valley there are twoads, one to the right and the other to the left. >• ••> the right called Port de Bernere must be • iJd road, because it leads into the valley of"J^aei and to Beilo in Spain, which is thewiinnm of the Itin. on the road from Summusir-naroa to Saragoia. There is a third pass the most western of all alsottned Sanmina Pyrcnaeua on the road from AquaesrWhcae (iMx) in A qui tan ia to Pompelon (Pain-foao) in Spaio. The Summus Pyrenaeus is the<mmet de CatteUPinon, from which we descend into the valley of Jtoncesvallei on the road to Pam.plona [bus Fyresakus]. (D'Anville, Notice, [G.L.] SUN A [Aborigines.] SU'NICI. Tacitus (Hut. iv. 66) mentions theSunici in the history of the war with Civilis. Ci-vilis having made an alliance with the Agrippinenses(Cob*) resolved to try to gain over the nearestpeople to Coin, and ho first secured the Sunici.Claudius Labco opposed him with a force hastilyraised U&oag the Betasii, Tungri and Nervii, and liewas confident in his position by having possession ofthe bridge over the Mosa. [Pons AIosae]. Nocertain conclusion as to the position of the Sunicican Ihj derived from this; but perhaps they werebetween Coin and the Mans. Pliny (iv. 17) men­tions the Sunici between the Tungri and the Fiuifr*bones. [G. L.] SU'NIUM ("Xovviov. Eth. TLouvtfut), the name ota promontory and demus on the southern coast ofAttica. The promontory, which forms the mostsoutherly p in! in the country, rises almost perpen­dicularly from the sea to a great height, and wascrowned with a temple of Athena, the tutelarygoddess of Attica. (Paus. i. 1. i 1 ; lovvtow ,Horn. Od. iii. 278 ; Soph. Ajax, 1235; Kurip. Cycl.292; Vitruv. ir. 7). Sunium was fortified in thenineteenth year of the Peloponnesian War (n.c 413)for the purpose of protecting the passage of the corn-ships to Athens (Thuc, viii. 4), and was regardedfrom that time as one of the principal fortreses ofAttica (Comp. Dem. pro Cor. p. 238; Lit. xxxi.25; Scylsx, p. 21.) Its proximity to the silvermines of Lanrium probably contributed to its pros­perity, which passed into a proverb (Anaxand. aj>.At/ten. vi. p. 263, c.) ; but even in the time tiCicerc it had sunk into decay (ad AtL xiii. 10). Thecircuit of the walls may still be traced, except wherethe precipitous nature of the rocks afforded a naturaldefence. The walls which are fortified with squaretowers, are of the most regular Hellenic masonry,and enclose a space of a little more than half a mile incircumference. The southern part of Attica, ex­tending northwards from the promontory of Suniumas far as Thoricus on .the east, and Anaphlystus onthe west, is called by Herodotus the Sumac anple(rbv yovvhy rip 2ovyiaK6vt iv. 99). ThoughSunium was especially sacred to Athena, we tarnfrom Aristophanes (JSaniL 557, Ave*, 869) thatPoseidon was also worshipped there. The promontory of Sunium is now called CopeKolonnes, from the ruins of the temple of Athenawhich still crown its summit. Leake observes tliwt"the temple was a l>oric hexastyle; but none ofthe columns of the fronts remain. The originalnumber of those in the flanks is uncertain; hutthero are still standing nine columns of the southern,and three of the northern side, with their archi­traves, together with the two columns and on- ofthe antae of the prouaus, also hearing their archi­traves. The columns of the peristyle were 3 feet4 inches in diameter at the base, and 2 feet 7 inchesunder the capital, with an infcrcolumniatiou belowof 4 feet 11 inches. The height, including thecapital, was 19 feet 3 inches. The exposed situa­tion of the building baa caused a great corrosion inthe surface of the marble, which was probablybrought from the neighbouring mountains; for it isless homogeneous, and of a coarser grain, than themarble of Pentele. The walls of the fortress werelaced with the some kind of stone. The ■ 3x4