OCR Output CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 441' territory about it, provoked them at length to come out.Their tear, however, did not suffer them to advance far.They encamped about a mile from the town. The onlysecurity, and that not a slight one, upon which they de-'pended, was the difficulty of approaching them, throughrough and craggy Ways, through narrow defiles, andover steep rocks. Cnmilius pressed a peasant for a guide,and decamping in the dead of night, shewed himselfby the morning's dawn, on a ground that overlookedthem. The Romans intrenched themselves in three di­visions; the remainder of the army standing under arms,ready to engage: whilst the enemy attempted to ob­struct the warks, they were routed and put to flight.Such was the consternation of the Falisci, that they ranpast their camp, which was in their way, with great pre­cipitation, to the town. The list of the killed and wounded, before the fugi*tives could get within their gates, was numerous. Thecamp was taken, and the whole spoil given up to thpquaestors, much to the dissatisfaction of the soldiers, butthey were kept in order by strict discipline. The samevirtue for which they hated him, they could not help ad-'miring. After this victory, he invested the town andsurrounded it with lines. The townsmen sometimes, asthey found an opportunity, sallied out, and had slightskirmishes with the Roman guards,spinning oul the time,with little difference as to their hopes on either side.For the town was better supplied with corn and otherprovisions than the besiegers, having taken care to filltheir magazines before hand: and, in all probability, thesiege of Falerii would have cost them as much time andtrouble as that of Veii had done, had not the fortune ofthe Roman general, and a new instance which he exhi­bited of his well known abilities in military affairs, has­tened on the victory. CHAP. XXVII. Villainy of a Schoolmaster. Generosity of Camillm. Itseffects on the Falisci. IT was a custom among the Falisci, to make the sameperson both tutor and companion to their children, and