OCR Output 268 ROMAN EMPIRE. a maxim of jurisprudence, which they believe and prac­tise to the present hour. They pretend, that, in thedivision of the earth, the rich and fertile climates wereassigned to the other branches of the human family; andthat the posterity of the outlaw Ismael might recover,by fraud or force, the portion of inheritance, of whichhe had been unjustly deprived. According to the re­mark of Pliny, the Arabian tribes are equally addictedto theft and merchandise; the caravans that traverse thedesert are ransomed or pillaged; and their neighbours,since the remote times of Job and Sesostris,m have beenthe victims of their rapacious spirit. If a Bedoweendiscovers from afar a solitary traveller, he rides furi­ously against him, crying, with a loud voice, Undressthyself, thy aunt (my wife) is without a garment. Aready submission entitles him to mercy; resistance willprovoke the aggressor, and his own blood must expiatethe blood which he presumes to shed in legitimate de­fence. A single robber, or a-few associates, are brandedwith their genuine name; but the exploits of a numer­ous band assume the character of a lawful and honour­able war. The temper of a people thus armed againstmankind, was doubly inflamed by the domestic licenceof rapine, murder, and revenge. In the constitution ofEurope, the right of peace and war is now confined toa small, and the actual exercise to a much smaller, listof respectable potentates; but each Arab, with impunityand renown, might point his javelin against the life ofhis countryman. The union of the nation consistedonly in a vague resemblance of language and manners;and in each community, the jurisdiction of the magi­strate was mute and impotent. Of the time of ignorancewhich preceded Mahomet, seventeen hundred battles" i" Observe the first chapter of Job, and the long wall of one thousand five hundredstadia which Sesostris built from Pelusium to Heliopolis. (Diodor. Sicul. torn. 1.lib. 1. p. 67.) Under the name of Hycsot, the shepherd kings, they had formerlysubdued Egypt, (Marsham, Canon. Chron. p. 98—163, &c.) "Or, according to another account, one thousand two hundred: (d'Herbelot,Bibliotheque Orientale, p. 75.) the two historians, who wrote of the Ayamal Arab,