OCR Output 46 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. in which the Roman Cyrus is degraded into an odiousand contemptible tyrant, in which both the emperor andhis consort Theodora are seriously represented as twodemons, who had assumed a human form for the de­struction of mankind.5 Such base inconsistency mustdoubtless sully the reputation, and detract from the cre­dit, of Procopius: yet, after the venom of his malignityhas been suffered to exhale, the residue of the anecdotes,even the most disgraceful facts, some of which had beentenderly hinted in his public history, are established bytheir internal evidence, or the authentic monuments ofthe times.' From these various materials, I shall nowproceed to describe the reign of Justinian, which willDivision of deserve and occupy an ample space. The present chap-JusUniiui.°' ter will explain the elevation and character of Theodora,the factions of the circus, and the peaceful administra­tion of the sovereign of the east. In the three succeed­ing chapters, I shall relate the wars of Justinian whichachieved the conquest of Africa and Italy; and I shallfollow the victories of Belisarius and Narses, withoutdisguising the vanity of their triumphs, or the hostilevirtue of the Persian and Gothic heroes. The series ofthis and the following volume will embrace the jurispru­dence and theology of the emperor; the controversiesand sects which still divide the oriental church; the re­formation of the Roman law, which is obeyed or respectedby the nations of modern Europe.Birtii and I. In the exercise of supreme power, the first act ofempressth<> Justinian was to divide it with the woman whom he Theodora. °f Kragrios is a poor objection. Baronins (A. D. 548. no. 24.) regrets the loss ofthis secret history: it was then in the Vatican library, in his own custody, and wasfirst published sixteen years after his death, with the learned, but partial, notes ofNicholas Alemannus. (Ludg. 1623.) 5 Justinian an ass—the perfect likeness of Domitian—(Anecdot. c. 8.)—Theodora'slovers driven from her bed by rival demons—her marriage foretold with a great de­mon—a monk saw the prince of the demons, instead of Justinian, ou the throne—the• servants who watched, beheld a face without features, a body walking without abead, &o. &c Procopius declares his own and his friends belief in these diabolicalstories, (c. 12.) 1 Montesquieu (Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Remains,c. 20.) gives credit to these anecdotes, as connected, 1. with the weakness of the empire jand, 2. with the instahility of Justinian's laws.