OCR Output AW.-31.J 547 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS had happened. So he made a consolatoryspeech to the multitude, in the followingmanner. "You are not ignorant, my fellow-soldiers,that we have recently sustained many acci­dents, that we have put a stop to what we areabout; and it is probable, that even thosethat are most distinguished for their courage,can hardly keep up their spirits in such cir­cumstances. But since we cannot avoidfighting; and nothing that hath happened isof such a nature, but it may by yourselves berecovered into a good state, and this by onebrave action well performed; I have pro­posed to myself, both to give you some en­couragement, and, at the same time, someinformation. Both which parts of my de­sign will tend to this point, that you may stillcontinue in your own proper fortitude. I willthen in the first place demonstrate to you,that this war is a just one on our side; andthat on this account it is a war of necessity,and occasioned by the injustice of our adver­saries. For if you be once satisfied of this,it will be a real cause of alacrity to you.After which I will farther demonstrate, thatthe misfortunes we are under are of no greatconsequence; and that we have the greatestreason to hope for victory. I shall begin withthe first, and appeal to yourselves as witnessesof what I shall say. You are not ignorant ofthe wickedness of the Arabians; which is tothat degree as to appear incredible to allother men; and to include somewhat thatshews the grossest barbarity and ignoranceof God. The chief things wherein they haveaffronted us, have arisen from covetousness,and envy: and they have attacked us in aninsidious manner, and on the sudden. Andwhat occasion is there for me to mention manyinstances of such their procedure? Whenthey were in danger of losing their own go­vernment, and of being slaves to Cleopatra,what others were they that freed them fromthat fear? For it was the friendship I hadwith Antony, and the kind disposition he wasin towards us, that hath been the occasion,that even these Arabians have not beenutterly undone; Antony being unwilling toundertake any thing which might be sus- peeled by us of unkindness. But when hehad a mind to bestow some parts of each ofour dominions on Cleopatra, I also managedthat matter so, that by giving him presents ofmy own, I might obtain a security to bothnations: while I undertook myself to answerfor the money; giving him two hundredtalents, and becoming surety for those twohundred more which were imposed upon theland that was subject to this tribute. Andthis they have defrauded us of; although itwas not reasonable that Jews should pay tri­bute to any man living; or allow part of theirland to be taxable. But although that wasto be, yet ought we not to pay tribute forthese Arabians, whom we have ourselvespreserved. Nor is it fit that they, who haveacknowledged, with great integrity and senseof our kindness, that it is by our means theykeep their principality, should injure us, anddeprive us of what is our due; and this whilewe have remained their friends. And whereasthe observance of covenants takes placeamong the bitterest enemies, but amongfriends is absolutely necessary, this is notobserved among these men; who think gainto be the best of all things, let it be by anymeans whatsoever; and that injustice is noharm, if they may but get money by it. It is,therefore, a question with you, whether theunjust are to be punished or not? when Godhimself hath declared his mind that so itought to be; and hath commanded that weshould abhor injuries and injustice. This isnot only just but necessary, in wars betweenseveral nations. For these Arabians havedone what both the Greeks and Barbariansown to be an instance of the grossest wick­edness, with regard to our ambassadors;whom they have beheaded. While theGreeks declare that such ambassadors are*sacred and inviolable. And for ourselves,we have learned from God the most excellentof our doctrines, and the most holy part ofour law, by angels, or ambassadors. Forthis name brings God to the knowledge ofmankind; and is sufficient to reconcile ene­mies one to another. What wickedness thencan be greater than the slaughter of ambas­sadors, who come to treat about doing what * Herod says here, that as ambassadors were sacred,when they carried messages to others; so did the laws ofthe Jews derive a sacred authority by being delivered voL. I.—NOS. 45 & 46. from God by angels, or divine ambassadors, which is St.Paul's expression, about the same laws. Gal. iii. 19.Heb. ii. 2. 4 Q