OCR Output STYLE OF TACITUS. • cise sentences, sometimes of rounded periods. And in the narrationof heroic deeds, battles and debates, he varies his style, according ashe himself hastens on to more important matters, or desires to urgeand hurry forward the minds of his readers, or to delay them andpersuade them to a calmer examination of the subject. Therefore henever wearies us by a series of concise sentences, continued beyondproper limits, which is a fault of Seneca. Tacitus has omitted nothing which would contribute to brevity oistyle. In this he chose to imitate, not so much the oracles, as theancient Roman writers. For as the language < f the Greeks wasnaturally adapted to express grace (x<fp,ra), so that of the Romanscontained in it the elements of dignity, and, as it were, imperialbrevity. In its own nature it was fitted to illustrate that com­mon saying: quot verba, tot pondera. I might mention the wantof the article—a thing to be regretted in other respects—as amongthe chief reasons and sources of this merit, although this is not theplace for examining this subject more fully. Now Cicero, and thewriters of his time, disregarded, in a manner, this natural characterof the Latin tongue, while they attempted to soften the rough powerand strength of the Roman language by the polish and refinement oithe Greek. But those writers who adorned the age of the Cssarsafter the time of Tiberius—Seneca and Tacitus—again departed fromthis elegance of style. For they carefully and intelligently cherishedthat style of expression, which the ancient Romans, almost withoutcultivation and under the impulse of their nature, had employed.Besides other advantages, they labored to preserve, the power of theancient style, in such a way as both to avoid the antique rudeness ofan uncultivated age, and drop the effeminate verbosity of a subse­quent period. While therefore Tacitus strove to speak so that every word mighthave its weight, he made use of many, or rather of all kinds of in­genious contrivances, not neglecting even the most minute. Nor,while I am pursuing this subject, do I entertain any fear of seemingto depreciate the ability of Tacitus, as if it were the mark of a weakand narrow mind, in so earnest a narration of the most importantevents, to choose his words with a sort of scholarlike care and anxi­ety. The foundation and source of so rich a diction was the sublimegenius of Tacitus, the greatness of his mind, and the strength andfervor of his emotions. At the same time, it is well known withwhat almost religious scrupulosity the ancients elaborated, each one forhimself, their style and language; and, in so doing, attributed less toa sort of divine power and inspiration, (as if words would flow from asubject spontaneously,) than to industry and care. Remarkable sto