OCR Output 58 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768. vantage; and had well nigh driven the Romans intoa morals, well known to themselves, but impractica­ble to strangers, when Germanicus came up with thelegions in order of battle. At the sight of a regularforce, the Germans were struck with terror. Thebroken ranks of the Romans had time to rally.Nothing decisive followed: Both armies parted uponequal terms: Germanicus marched back to the riverAmisia, and with his legions sailed across the lakes.Part of the cavalry had orders to file along the sea-coast, and by a winding march return to the banksof the Rhine. , ', Csecina, at the head of his own division, marchedthrough a country of which he was not ignorant. Heljad 'directions to pass the long bridges with all possi­ble expedition. The place so called is a narrow cause­way, constructed formerly by Lucius Domitius. Itstretches a great length of way between two prodi­gious marshes. The country round is one vast fen, insome parts covered with a deep and slimy mud, inothers with a tenacious heavy clay, intersected fre­quently with rapid torrents. A thick forest, rising atsome distance on a gradual acclivity, inclosed thewiiole scene, and formed a kind of amphitheatre. Ar-minius, who knew the course of the country, made aforced march, and took post in the woods before theRomans, encumbered with arms and heavy baggage,arrived at the place. CfEcina found a double difficul­ty. The bridges, ruined by time, were to be repaired;and the enemy at the same time was to be repulsed.He judged it necessary to pitch his camp; as in thatsituation a sufficient number might work,at the cause­way, while the rest were held in readiness to engagethe enemy. LXIV. The barbarians made a vigorous effort toforce the outposts, and penetrate to the men workingat the intrenchments. They rushed forward with im­petuous fury, they wheeled about to the flanks, theyreturned to charge in front. A mingled shout arosefrom the labourers and the combatants. All thingsseemed to conspire against the Romans: the slimysoil, if the men stood still, sunk under them; if they