OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 199 nature.1 By the necessity of their situation, the iaha-bitants of Rome were cast into the rough model of arepublican government: they were compelled to electsome judges in peace, and some leaders in war; thenobles assembled to deliberate, and their resolves couldnot be executed without the union and consent of themultitude. The style of the Roman senate and peoplewas revived/ but the spirit was fled: and their newindependence was disgraced by the tumultuous conflictof licentiousness and oppression. The want of lawscould only be supplied by the influence of religion,and their foreign and domestic counsels were mode­rated by the authority of the bishop. His alms, hissermons, his correspondence with the kings and pre­lates of the west, his recent services, their gratitude, anoath, accustomed the Romans to consider him as thefirst magistrate or prince of the city. The Christianhumility of the popes was not offended by the name ofDominus, or Lord; and their face and inscription arestill apparent on the most ancient coins.2 Their tem­poral dominion is now confirmed by the reverence of athousand years; and their noblest title is the free choiceof a people, whom they had redeemed from slavery. In the quarrels of ancient Greece, the holytackeYb PeoP^e of El is enjoyed a perpetual peace, underthe Lom- the protection of Jupiter, and in the exerciseof the Olympic games.8 Happy would it havebeen for the Romans if a similar privilege had * Quoi (Romanes) nos, Langobardi scilicet, Saiones, Franci, Lotharingi, Ba-joari, Suevi, Burgundiones, tanto dedignamur ut inimicos nostros commotii, nilaliud, contuffieliarumnisi Romane, dicamus: hoc solo, id est Roinanorum nomine,quicquid ignobilitatis, quicquid timidilatis, quicquid avaritiae, quicquid luxuruci,quicquid mendacii, imttio quicquid vitiorum eat comprehendentes. (Liutprand. inLegat. Script. Ital. torn. 2. pars 1. p. 481.) For the sins of Cato or Tully, Minosmight have imposed, as a fit penance, the daily perusal of this barbarous passage. i Pipino regi Francorum, omuls senatus atque tmiversa pppuli generalitus a Deoeervate Romanic urbis. (Codex Carolin. epist. 36. in Script. Ital. torn. 3. para 2.p. 160.) The names of senatus and senator were never totally extinct: (Dissert.Chorograph. p. 216, 217.) but in the middle age they signified little more thannobiles optimates, Sec. (Ducange, Gloss. Latin.) 1 See Muratori Antiquit. Italia> Medii , K\ i, torn. 2. dissert at. 37. p. 548. Onone of these coins we read Hadrianus Papa (A. D. 772); on the reverse, Viet.DDNN, with the word COJVOB, which the peie Joubert (Science des Medailles,torn. 2. p. 42.) explains by CO.V-stantinopoli Officina ft, (secunda.) '- See West s Dissertation on the Olympic games (Pindar, vol. 2. p. 32 — 36. ~7°2'