OCR Output 292 NUMBER OF CAPTIVES. [B. VI. during this whole war, was collected to he ninety-seventhousand; as was the number of those that perished duringthe whole siege eleven hundred thousand, the greater partof whom were, indeed, of the same nation [with the citizensof Jerusalem,] but not belonging to the city itself; for theywere come up from all the country to the feast of unleavenedbread, and were on a sudden shut up by an army, which atthe very first occasioned so great a straitness among them,that there came a pestilential destruction upon them, andsoon afterward such a famine, as destroyed them moresuddenly. And that this city could contain so many peoplein it, is manifest by that number of them which was takenunder Cestius, who being desirous of informing Nero of theflower of the city, who otherwise was disposed to contemnthat nation, entreated the high-priests, if the thing werepossible, to take the number of their whole multitude. Sothese high-priests, upon the coming of that feast which iscalled the Passover, when they slay their sacrifices, from theninth hour till the eleventh, but so that a company not lessthan ten' belong to every sacrifice (for it is not lawful forthem to feast singly by themselves;) and many of us aretwenty in a company. Now, the number of sacrifices was justice were just then come up out of the other countries of Galilee, Sa­maria, Judca, Pcrea, and other remoter regions, to the Passover, in vastnumbers, and therein cooped up, as in a prison, by the Koman army, asJosephus himself well observes in this and the next section, and as is ex­actly related elsewhere, B. v. ch. iii. sect. 1, and ch. xiii. sect. 7. 1 This number of a company for one paschal lamb, between ten andtwenty, agrees exactly with the number thirteen, at our Savior's last pass-over. As to the whole number of the Jews that used to come up to thePassover, and cat of it at Jerusalem, see the noto on B. ii. ch. xiv. sect. 3.This number ought to be here, indeed, just ten times the number of thelambs, or just 2,5U5,000 by Josephus's own reasoning; whereas it is in hispresent copies no less than 2,700,000, which last number is, however, nearestthe other number in the place now cited, which is 3,000,000. But what ishere chiefly remarkable is this, that no foreign nation ever came thus todestroy the Jews at any of their solemn festivals, from the days of Moseatill this time, but came now upon their apostasy from God, and fromobedience to him. Nor is it possible, in the nature of things, that, in anyother nation, such vast numbers should be gotten together, and perish inthe siege of any one city whatsoever, as now happened in Jerusalem.