OCR Output MYSIA. MYSIA. 389 fl i Bwicre in (he north-west of Asia Minor,nidi icoriiiig to Strabo (xii. p. 572) was derivedfro the mar beech-trees which grew about Mount''r-BfW, anj were called by the Lydians fiwroi."V-n Dare plausibly connect the name with thev a DjArsh or swamp, according to whichwwiM signify a marshy country. This sup-p*Om it rept»irted by the notion prevalent among*-v mifat* that the Mysians had immigrated into.'. .i Iter from the marshy countries about the Lowerhzix. caM Moesia, whence Mysia and Mocsia"rail be «n!i dialectic varieties of the same name.R' ». il-A the Mysians are sometimes mentioned * "i tfct distinctive attribute of the u Asiatic," to■ttzwa tbera from the European Mysians, orK lj. fKojtalh. ad IHon. Per. 809 ; 'Schol. adJrhtWL 1115.) "' Aittic [TDvince of Mysia was bounded infee tath by the Propontis and the Hellespont, inby the Aegean, and in the south by Monnt.TrsBted Lydia. la the east the limits are notrwrh defined bv the ancients, though it wasWW'by Kih ynia and Phrygia, and we nmy*» tat river Rhyndacus and Mount Olympus tok*. ■ the whole, formed the boundary line,fltnk m. pp. 564, 4c, 571.) The whole extent of7 beahrs: the came of Mysia, was divided intohfarti:—I. Mtsia Minor (Mi/ct(o t) fi'Kpa), that^ -•□urthem cc^t-district on the Hellespont andrV -xi> a far a.- Mount Olympus; it also bore the * ■ f)fv>iiiMle>.p>ntiaca, or simply Hellespontus,■< * aattaanti were called Helles'pontii (PtoL v.I fit 3,14; Xenoph. Ages. i. 14); or, from■Ki <J!rnipna, Mysia Olyinpetie (Mwn'a fj 'OAw/*-** '.Jink. xiL p. 571). This Leaser Mysia cm-^»»: :> <&::icts of Mokkse, Abrkttkhb andfcifaa sbuD ('Ar/ar TrtZiov; St rah. xii. pp. 574,Pll 1 Xysia Major (Muo"ia it /irydAtj), form-fftbraetbeni part of the interior of the country,P^-ar I trait of country extending between TroasN -**«* at far as the bay of Adramyttium. Thep>pd ciry of this part was Pergamum, from^* tie eoottry is also called Mysia Pcrgamene a $ nir/wr^; Strab. I c; Ptol. v. 2.V1* ) 3. Tkoas (yi Tweeds), the territory ofTrey, that the northern part of thetmtt, from Sigeinm to the bay of Adra-4. Aeous, the sonthem part of the'^caH» that between the rivers Caicus anda i. Tutiiraxia TtvBparia), or the'^ the southern frontier, where in ancientTotbia is said to have formed a Mysiana- (Strab. xii. p. 551.)» iaaie. and division*, however, were not■t at all times. Under the Persian do-■ 'hea Mysia fumed a part of the secondn> (Brroi in. 90), the name Mysia was ap-P'^'JUbf north-eastern part of the country,■• •» Myna Minor; whil • the western part of:br H»l!espont bore the name of Lesser* «ai the district to the south of the latter'Tun (Seyfcu, p. 35.) In the latest timesLt-*z tcipirr, that is, nnder the Christian^ tie rr«ucr part of Mysia was containedk> pwiaw bearing the name of Hellespontus,A* nathrro diatricta as Car as Troas belonged«f Asia. (HierocL p. 658.)PS» part of Mysia is a mountainous"•ox traversed by the north-western4 M-nat Taurus, which gradually slopeAejrau, the main branches being | Mount Ida and Monnt Temkus. The country isalso rich in rivers, though most of them are small,and not navigable; but, notwithstanding its abun­dant supply of water in rivers and lakes, thocountry was in ancient times less productive thanother provinces of Asia Minor, and many parts of itwere covered with marshes and forests. Besides theordinary products of Asia Minor, and the excellentwheat of Assns (Strab. xv. p. 725), Mysia was cele­brated for a kind of stone called lapis assius (aap-K<xpiym), which had the power of quickly consum­ing the human body, whence it was used for coffins(sarcophagi), and partly powdered and strewed overdead bodies. (Dioscorid. v. 141; Plin. ii. 98,xxxvi. 27; Steph. B. ». v. "Aoaos.) Near the coastsof the Hellespont there were excellent oyster beds.(Plin. xxxii. 21; Catull. xviii. 4; Virg. Georg.i. 207; Lncan, ix. 959; comp. Theophrast. Hut.Plant, i. 6. 13.) The country of Mysia was inhabited by severaltribes, as Phryginns, Trojans, Aeolians, and Mysians;but we must here confine ourselves to the Mysians,from whom the country derived its name. Mysiansare mentioned in the Iliad (ii. 858, x. 430, xiii. 5),and seem to be conceived by the poet as dwellingon the Hellespont in that part afterwards calledMysia Minor. Thence they seem, during the periodsubsequent to the Trojan War, to have extendedthemselves both westward and southward. (Stnib.xii. p. 665.) Herodotus (vii. 74) describes them asbelonging to the same stock as the Lydians, withwhom tliey were always stationed together in thePersian armies (Herod, i. 171), and who probablyspoke a language akin to theirs. Strabo (vii.pp. 295, 303, xii. pp. 542, 564, &c.) regards themas a tribe that hud immigrated into Asia fromEurope. It is difficult to see how these two state­ments are to be reconciled, or to decide which ofthem is more entitled to belief. As no traces of theMysian language have come down to us, we cannotpronounce a positive opinion, though the evidence, sofar as it can be gathered, seems to be in favour ofStrabo's view, especially if we bear in mind thealleged identity of Mocsians and Mysians. It is,moreover, not quite certain as to whether theMysians in Homer are to be conceived as Asiatics oras Europeans. If this view be correct, the Mysiansmust have crossed over into Asia either before, orsoon after the Trojan War. Being afterwards pressedby other immigrants, they advanced farther into thecountry, extending in the south-west as far as Per-gamum, and in the east as far as Catacecaumene.About the' time of tho Aeolian migration, theyfounded, under Teuthras, the kingdom of Teuthrania,which was soon destroyed, but gave the district inwhich it had existed its permanent name. Thepeople which most pressed upon them in the northand east seem to have been the Bithynians. In regard to their history, the Mysians shared thofate of all the nations in the west of Asia Minor.In B.C. 190, when Antiochus was driven fromWestern Asia, they became incorporated with thekingdom of Pergamus; and when this was madeover to Rome, they formed a part of tho province ofAsia. Respecting their national character and insti­tutions we possess scarcely any information; but ifwo may apply to them that which Posidonius (inStrab. vii. p. 296) states of the European Moesians,they were a pious and peaceable nomadic people,who lived in a very simple manner on the produce oftheir flocks, and had not made great advances in c c 3