OCR Output as JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. city into .the four quarters by which it is usuallydi>tinguished. These four quarters are: — (1) The ArmenianQuarter at the S\V.; (2) the Jew's Quarter at theSE.,—both these being on Mount Sion ; (3) theChristian Quarter at the N\V.; (4) the MahometanQuarter, occupying the remainder of the city onthe west and north of the great Haram-es-Sherif,the noble Sanctuary, which represents the ancientTemple area. The Mosk, which occupies thegrandest and once most venerated spot in the world,is, tn its architectural design and proportions, as itwas formerly in its details, worthy of its site. Itwas built for Abd-el Melik Ibn-Marwan, of thehouse of Oinmiyah, the tenth khalif. It was com­menced in a. l). 688, and completed in three years,and when the vicissitudes it has undergone withina space of nearly 1200 years are considered, it isperhaps rather a matter of astonishment that thefabric should have been preserved so entire thanthat the adornment should exhibit in parts marksof ruinous decay. The Church of Justinian, — now the Mosk El-Aksa,—to the south of the same area, is alsoa conspicuous object in the modern city; and theChurch of the Holy Sepulchre, with its appen­dages, occupies a considerable space to the west.The greater part of the remaining space is occupiedwith the Colleges or Hospitals of the Moslems, inthe vicinity of the Mosks, and with the Monasteriesof the several Christian communities, of which thePatriarchal Convent of St. Constantino, belonging tothe Greeks, near the Church of the Holy Sepulchre,and that of the Armenians, dedicated to St. James,on the highest part of Mount Sion, are the mostconsiderable. The population of the modern city has beenvariously estimated, some accounts stating it aslow as 10,000, others as high as 30,000. Il maybe safely assumed as about 12,000, of which num­ber nearly half are Moslems, the other half beingcomposed of Jews and Christians in about equalproportions. It is governed by a Turkish pasha,and is held by a small garrison. Most of the Eu­ropean nations arc there represented by a consul. VI. Envihons. A few sites of historical interest remain to benoticed in the environs of Jerusalem: as the valleyswhich environ the city have been sufficiently de­scribed at the commencement of the article, themountains may here demand a few words. The Scopus, which derived its name, as Joseph usinforms us, from the extensive view which it com­manded of the surrounding country, is the highground to the north of the city, beyond the Tombsof the Kings, 7 stadia from the city (B. J. ii. 19.J 4t v. 2. § 3), where both Ostitis and Titus firstencamped on their approach t» the city (//. cc.):this range is now occupied by a village namedSMa/tkdt, — the Semitic equivalent to the GreekaK<rr6i. On the east of the city is the Mount ofOlives, extending along the whole length of itseastern wall, conspicuous with its three summits, ofwhich the centra is the highest, and is crowned witha pile of buildings occupying the spot where Helena,the mother of Constant me, built a Basilica in cora-imrn-jration of the Ascension of our Lord. (Ku-aebiua, Vita Conttamtmi, iii* 12, Loudtt, § 9.)A little below the southern summit is a remarkablegallery of sepulchral chambers arranged in a semi- circle concentric with a circular funnel-shaped hall24 feet in diameter, with which it is connected bythree passages. They are popularly called ** theTombs of the Prophets," but no satisfactory accounthas been given of these extensive excavations.(Plans are given by Schultz, Kraft, and Tobler, inthe works referred to below.) Dr. SchulU was in­clined to identify this with the rock ntptaTfipun*,mentioned by Joseph us in his account of the Wallof Circumvallation (B. J. v. 12), which he supposesto be a translation of the Latin Columbarium. (SeeVict. Ant. art. Funus, p. 561, b.) In the bed of the Valley of Jehoshaphat, invmediately beneath the centre summit of MountOlivet, where the dry bed of the brook Kedron isspanned by a bridge, is tbe Garden of Gethscmane,with its eight venerable olive-trees protected by astone wall; and close by is a subterranean church,in which is shown the reputed tomb of the Virgin,who, however, according to an ancient tradition,countenanced by the Council of Ephesus (a. d. 431),died and was buried in that city. (I^abbe, Concilia,torn. iii. col. 573.) A little to the south of this, still in the bed ofthe valley, arc two remarkable monolithic sepul­chral monuments, ascribed to Absalom and Zeclianah,exhibiting in their sculptured ornaments a mixtureof Doric, Ionic, and perhaps Egyptian architecture,which may possibly indicate a change in the originaldesign in conformity with later taste. Connectedwith these are two scries of sepulchral chambers,one immediately behind the Pillar of Absalom, calledby the name of Jehothaphat; the other between themonoliths, named the Cant of St. James, which lastis a pure specimen of the Doric order. (See AGeneral View in Holy City, vol. it. p. 449, anddetailed plans, Ac. in pp. 157, 158, with ProfessorWillU's description.) To the south of Mount Olivet is another rockyeminence, to which tradition has assigned the name)of the Mount of Offence, as " the hill before Jeru­salem" where king Solomon erected altars for idola­trous worship (I King*, xi. 7). In the rocky loseof this mount, overhanging the Kedron, is tbe rock-hewn village of Siloam, chiefly composed of sepul­chral excavations, much resembling a Columbarium,and most probably the rock Periston urn of Joseph us.Immediately below this village, on the opposite >idrof the valley, is the intermitting Fountain of theVirgin, at a considerable depth below the bedof the valley, with a descent of many stepshewn in the rock. Its supply of water is veryscanty, and what is not drawn off here runs throughthe rocky ridge of Opbel, by an irregular passage,to the Pool of Siloam in the mouth of the Tyro-poeon. This pool, which is mentioned in the NewTestament {St. John, ix. 7, &&), is now filled withearth and cultivated as a garden, a small tank withcolumns built into its side serves the purpose of apo«>l, and represents the '* quadriportirurn * of theBordeaux Pilgrim (a. d. 333), who also mentions"Alia piscina grand is forma." This was probablyidentical with Hezekiaha Pool "between the twowalls" (/*. xxii. 11), as it certainly is with the"Pool of Siloah by tbe king's garden" in Nehemiah(iii. 15, ii. 14; com p. 2 Amos, xxr. 4. Tbe argu­ment* are fuliy stated in the Holy City, vol. ii.pp. 474— 48a M. do Saub-y accepts the identifi­cation.) The king's gardens are still representedin a verdant spot, where the concurrence of thethree valleys, liinnom, Jeboabsphat, and Tyroputon