OCR Output ISO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI. pencd that Snnballat was then in years. But there was now agreat disturbance among the people of Jerusalem, because manyof those priests and Levites were entangled in such matches;for they all revolted to Manasseh, and Sanballat affordedthem money, and divided among them land for tillage, andhabitations also, and all this in order every way to gratify hisson-in-law. 3. About this time it was that Darius heard how Alexanderhad passed over the Hellespont, and had beaten his lieutenantsin the battle of Granicum, and was proceeding farther : where­upon he gathered together an army of horse and foot, and deter­mined that he would meet the Macedonians before they shouldassault and conquer all Asia. So he passed over the river Eu- Ehrates, and came over Taurus, the Cicilian mountain, and atssus of Cilicia he waited for the enemy, as ready there to givehim battle. Upon which Sanballat was glad that Darius wascome down; and told Manasseh that he would suddenly performhis promises to him, and this as soon as ever Darius shouldcome back; after he had beaten his enemies; for not he only,but all those that were in Asia also, were persuaded that theMacedonians would not so much as come to a battle with thePersians, on account of their multitude. But the event provedotherwise than they expected, for the king joined battle with theMacedonians, and was beaten, and lost a great part of his army.His mother also, and his wife and children, were taken captives,and he fled into Persia. So Alexander came into Syria, and tookDamascus; and when he had obtained Sidon, he besieged Tyre,when he sent an epistle to the Jewish high priest, "To send him"some auxiliaries, and to supply his army with provisions;"and that what presents he formerly sent to Darius, he would"now send to him, and choose the friendship of the Macedonians*' and that he should never repent of so doing." But the highpriests answered the messengers, That" he had given his oath to"Darius not to bear arms against him; and he said, that he"would not transgress this while Darius was in the land of the"living." Upon hearing this answer, Alexander was very an­gry; and though he determined not to leave Tyre, which wasjust ready to be taken, yet as soon as he had taken it, he threat­ened that he would make an expedition against the Jewish highpriest, and through him teach all men to whom they must keeptheir oaths. So when he had with a good deal of pains, duringthe siege, taken Tyre, and had settled its affairs, he came to thecity of Gaza, and besieged both the city, and him who was go­vernor of the garrison, whose name was Babemeses. 4. But Sanballat thought he had now gotten a proper oppor­tunity to make his attempt, so he renounced Darius, and, takingwith him seven thousand of his own subjects, he came to Alex­