OCR Output CM AH. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 419 And yet these men, convicted and -damned as theyhave been before so many tribunals, have the assur*anoe to #j*pear before the people, expecting to be ac­quitted," mtagining they have been sufficiently punish­ed in losing the fasces two months before the time.They do not seem to know the difference between dis­arming them for fear of further mischief and punishingthem for what they have done. Were not their col­leagues broke who had committed no fault? Upon thisoccasion, the Romans ought to recal those dispositionsthey felt on their late defeat, when they saw theirarmy covered with wounds, flying, affrighted, and fal­ling down at the gates of Rome, accusing not fortune,ftor the gods,-but'these two generals. They may restassured, that there is not a soul in this assembly, whothat day did not heartily curse and detest L. Virginiusa<id M. Sergius, their families, and all that belonged tothem. Is it fit then, that after invoking the gods topunish these crimmals, that they should receive the least indulgence from those who have them in theirpower, which they ought to exert against them? Forthe gods are never the executors of vengeance them­selves; it is enough that they furnish the injured with an opportunity of revenge.' . CHAP. XII. . Sergius and Virginius condemned. A Plebeian elected tothe military Tribuneship for the first time T HE people, irritated by these harangues, condemnedthe criminals, each in a fine of 10,000 asses of brass,*nor would give any ear to Sergius's plea, of the chanceand fortune of war, nor to Virginitis's intreaty, not to ren­der him more unhappy at home than he had been in thefield. The resentment of the people being turned totallyagainst these two generals, quite cancelled the remem­brance of the co-optation of tribunes, and of the treacher­ous attempt upon the Trebonian law. The tribunes, afterthis victory, to give the people an immediate return for their sentence, published the Agrarian law, and forbade • , * » j£ 32: i : 9|.