OCR Output Chap. XL ANTIOUITII'.S OF THE JKWH. '4,<2l 9. This provoked Caesar more than'ever: so he turned toSylleus full of rage, and asked him how many of the Arabianswere slain? Hereupon he hesitated, and said he had been im­posed upon. The covenants also were read about the money hehad borrowed, and the letters of the presidents of Syria, and thecomplaints of the several cities, so many as had been injured bythe robbers. The conclusion was this, that Sylleus was con­demned to die, and that Caesar was reconciled to Herod, andowned his repentance for what severe things he had written tohim, occasioned by calumny, insomuch that he told Sylleus, thathe had compelled him, by his lying account of things, to beguilty of ingratitude against a man that was his friend. At thelast, all came to this; Sylleus was sent away to answer Herod'ssuit, and to repay the debt that he owed, and after that to bepunished [with death]: But still Caesar was offended with Are-tas, that he had taken upon himself the government, withouthis consent first obtained, for he had determined to bestowArabia upon Herod; but that the letters he had sent hinderedhim from so doing, for Olympus and Volumnius, perceivingthat Caesar was now become favourable to Herod, thought fitimmediately to deliver him the letters they were commandedby Herod to give him concerning his sons. When Csssar hadread them, he thought it would not be proper to add anothergovernment to him, now he was old, and in an ill state with re­lation to his sons, so he admitted Aretas' ambassadors; andafter he had just reproved him for his rashness, in not tarryingtill he received the kingdom from him, he accepted of his pre­sents, and confirmed him in his government. CHAP. XI. How Herod, by permission from Ctesar, accused his sons beforean assembly of judges at Berytus,- and what Tero suffered.Jar using a boundless and military liberty of speech. Con­cerning also the death of the young men, and their burial atAlexandrium. 5 1. So Caesar was now reconciled to Herod; and wrotethus to him, That "he was grieved for him on account of"his sons: and that in case they had been guilty of any profane"and insolent crimes against him, it would behove him to pu-"nish them as parricides, for which he gave him power accord-"ingly; but if they had only contrived to fly away, he would"have him give them an admonition, and not proceed to extre-"mity with them. He also advised him to get an assembly