OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 795 Thr Aacrs Tibkrji, another triumphal arch,"iatel to Tiberius, was erected at the foot of the"i™ Capitolinus Dear the temple of Saturn, in■ ^saturation of the recovery of the Boman stand-rii Imt with the army of Varua. (Tac. Ann. ii. 41.)aenae also restored the temple of Castor in therf hriiarif and of his brother Drusus, as well> 'A* lanple of Concord, as we have before had oc-iubb to remark. I Ma the fallowing emperors down to the time of•jutm we do not read of many alterations on thenx- The fire of Nero seems to have chiefly de.wyed ha lower part, where the temple of Vesta-' iA» Kagia lay; the upper portion and the Capitol(war to hare escaped. The Curia Julia wasx^jjy barm down in the fire which occurred in • r^vs of Titaa; at all events it was certainly re-s.: S; iAnitian. The celebrated Statue of Vic-<ar, runaecrmted in the curia by Augustus, appears,vr,*r, to have escaped, since Dion Cassius ex-mdf aaya that it existed in his time, and we findti^iuced even later. (Suet. Aug. 100; Diona Lti; Herodian, v. 5.) It was this statue,am correct Iv perhaps the altar wluch stood be- • ■ iaJ occasioned so warm a contention between( ttrwtiaa and heathen parties in the senate in'.^m of Tbeodoaius and Valentinian II., the •-n reiag led by Ambroeius, the latter by Sym-- u. Lie praefectua urbi. (Symmach. Epitt. x.: tL Aasbras. £pt*L ad calcem Symm. ed. Far.1 7*0, 5- pp. 473, 492; Gibbon, Decline amii, rei. ui. p. 4W9, seq., ed. Smith.) Ambrose is. to kasv obtained its removal; though this,ii r. relates only to the altar, since the statue-n'«ned br Claadian as still existing in the: «f Hawriuj. (De VI. Coat. lion. v. 597):— Alfcir ipsa saU ales Victoria templUi. .tuk tuteba topae: quae divite pennaI'a^ca reverend* fovet sacraria coetus." ■jtittaa had a peculiar predilection for two-» Jaaiu and Minerva He erected so manyears all over the city that an ancient pasquiu-a the Utrai of a Greek pun, was found in-cpon one of them: "Jauos arcusque cum»y et inai£Tiibtts triumphorum per fiegioues^sxos ac toe extruxit ut cuidam Graece in-torn ait, ifmtZ" (Suet. Aim. 13; cf. Dion. ax. 1 ) Among other temples of Minervai gaai by some authorities to have erected oneit iram between those of Vesta and Castor,nr. Hamdb. p_ 356.) But there seems to havebsrdrr room for one at this spot; and, as wehsfjrc retr^rkexl, the Xutitia does not mention*»TTr in also built, in honour of his fatherWin the Tkmi'U or Vespasian AND%SrXt to taw temple of Concord. Tbe threeat m the Ciivus Capitolinus most probably( U il. The opinion that the eight Ionicof this temple has been already wt was tbe atate of the forum when tbe colossalE uf DoMItian was erected on itaV Lao* Cunios. Statius (SUvae i. 1) baaaa small poein on this statue, and his descrip-ff a asTjrila nuuij interesting topographical(an. which full/ confirm what has been)y ...i respecting tbe arrangement of the at rrjeriaiposito molest' j-rr" octoplexa Coram? Fluxit opus? Sicnlis an conformata caminisEffigies, lassum Steropem Brontemque reliquit? Par operi sedes. Hinc obvia limina pandit,Qui fessus bellis, adscitae mnnere prolis,Primus iter nostris ostendit in aethera divis. At latemm paasus hinc Julia tecta tnenturIllinc belligeri sublimis regia Paulli.Terga pater blandoque videt Concordia vnltu.Ipse autem pnrocelsum caput aere septusTempla superfulges, et prospectare viderisAn nova contemptis surgant palatia rlammisPulcrius; an tacita vigilet face TroTcns ignisAtque exploratas jam laudct Vesta ministras," &c. The statue, therefore, must have faced the east,with the head slightly inclined to the right, so as tobehold the temple of Vesta and the Palatine. Di­rectly in front of it rose the temple of Divus Julius;on the right was the Basilica Julia, on the left theBasilica Aemilia; whilst; behind, in close juxta­position, were the temples of Concord and of Vespa­sian and Titus. The site of the statue near theLacus Curtius is indicated in the poem (v. 75, seq.). The next important monument erected on theforum after the time of Domitian appears to havebeen the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina,considerable remains of which still exist before andin the walls of the modem church of 3. Loretao inMiranda. It stood at tbe eastern extremity of theN. side of the forum. These remains, which are nowsunk deep in the earth, consist of the pronaoior vestibule, composed of eight columns of cipollinomarble supporting an architrave, also part of th»cella, built of square blocks of piperino. The archi­trave is ornamented with arabesque candelabra andgriffins. On the front the inscription is stilllegible:— D1VO . ANTOXINO . ETD1VAE . KAV3T1XAE . 1 V . 3 . C . TEMPLE OF ANTONINUS AND FAUSTINA. But as a temple was decreed both to AntoninusPius and his wife, the elder Faustina (Capitol.Anton. P. c. 6, 13), and to tbe younger Faustina,their daughter (/6. c. 26), and as divine honourswere also rendered after his death to U. AnreliusAntoninus, the husband of the latter, it becomesdoubtful to which pair the temple is to be referred(Nibby, Foro Ram. p. 183). It seems, however,most probable that it was dedicated to AntoninusPius and the elder Faustina. It is stated by PirroI.igorio (ap. Canina, Furo Ram. p. 192) that inthe excavations made here in 1547, the basis of a