OCR Output B. I.] AGAINSTAPION. 368 suspecting that they had conversation with some foreigners.But what is the strongest argument of our exact managementin this matter, is what I am now going to say, that we havethe names of our high-priests from father to son set down inour records, for the interval of two thousand years ; and ifany of these have been transgressors of these rules, they areprohibited to present themselves at the altar, or to be par­takers of any other of our purifications: and this is justly orrather necessarily done, because every one is not permittedof his accord to be a writer, nor is there any disagreement inwhat is written, they being only prophets that have writtenthe original and earliest accounts of things as, they learnedthem of God himself by inspiration: and others have writtenwhat hath happened in their own times, and that in a verydistinct manner also. 8. For we have not an innumerable multitude of hooksamong us, disagreeing from and contradicting one another[as the Greeks have,] but only twenty-two books,1 which con­tain the records of all the past times, which are justly believedto be divine. And of them five belong to Moses, which con­tain his laws, and the traditions of the origin of mankind tillhis death. This interval of time was little short of threethousand years. But as to the time from the death of Mosestill the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, who reigned afterXerxes, the prophets, who were after Moses, wrote down whatwas done in their times in thirteen books. The remainingfour books contain hymns to God, and precepts for the con­duct of human life. It is true our history hath been writtensince Artaxerxes very particularly, but hath not been es­teemed of the like authority with the former by our forefa­thers, because there hath not been an exact succession of pro­phets since that time: and how firmly we have given credit 1 Which were these twenty-two sacred books of the Old Testament, see theSupplement to the Essay on the Old Testament, p. Uo-29, viz., those we callcanonical, all excepting the Canticles ; but still with this farther exception,that the first book of apocryphal Esdras bo taken into that number, insteadof our caaonical Ezra, which seems to bo no more than a later epitome of thoother; which two books of Canticles and Ezra it no way appears that ourJoscphus ever saw.