OCR Output A. P. 14.] 9 OF TACITUS. countable to the sovereign only, was a branch of theimperial prerogative: and if Tiberius departed from it,he ceased to reign. VII. At Rome, in the mean time, all things tendedto a state of abject servitude. Consuls, senators, andRoman knights contended with emulation, who shouldbe the most willing slaves. The higher each person'srank, the more he struggled for the foremost place inbondage. All appeared with a studied countenance.An air of gaiety might dishonour the memory of Au­gustus, and sadness would ill bent the opening of anew reign. A motley farce was acted; and grief andjoy, distress and flattery, succeeding by turns, werecuriously mixed and blended. The oath of fidelity toTiberius was taken first by the two consuls, SextusPompeius and Sextus Apuleius, and by them adminis­tered to Seius Strabo and Caius Turraruus; the for­mer, prefect of the prsetorian bands ; the latter, con­troller of the corn and public stores. Their examplewas followed by the senate, the army, and the mass ofthe people. To make every thing move from the consuls, wasthe policy of Tiberius. He affected the appearanceof republican principles, as if the constitution stillsubsisted, and he himself had formed no design todestroy it. The very proclamation, by which heconvened the senate, professed no other authoritythan that of the tribunitian power conferred uponhim by Augustus. The proclamation itself wasshort, and penned in modest terms; importing, that44 the business of the meeting was, to decree funeral" honours to his debased father: as to himself, he" could not leave the body; that office of piety was" the only function that he presumed to exercise."This was, indeed, the language of moderation; butAugustus was no sooner dead, than he assumed thesupreme authority: in his character of imperator, hetook upon him the whole military command; he gavethe word to the pretorian guards: sentinels were sta­tioned round the palace; the soldiers appeared underarms; the magnificence of a court was seen in all itsforms; guards attended him to the forum; guards