OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 389 provinces of the consuls and pretors. Those of thepretors were the first settled, because that could bedone by the lots. The city jurisdiction fell to Ser-gius; the foreign to Minucius; Atilius obtained Sar­dinia; Manlius, Sicily; Sempronius, the Hither Spain,and Helvius, the Farther. When the consuls werepreparing to cast lots for Italy and Macedonia, LuciusOppius and Quintus Fulvius, plebeian tribunes, ob­jected to their proceeding, alleging that 'Macedoniawas a very distant province, and that the principalcause which had hitherto retarded the progress of thewar was that, when it was scarcely entered on, andjust at the commencement of operations, the formerconsul was always recalled. This was the fourth yearsince the declaration of war against Macedonia. Thegreater part of one year Sulpicius spent in seeking theking and his army; Villius, on the point of engagingthe enemy, was recalled. Quintius was detained atRome, for the greater part of his year, by businessrespecting religion; nevertheless, he had so conductedaffairs, that had he come earlier into the province, orhad the cold season been at a greater distance, hemight have put an end to hostilities. He was then justgoing into winter quarters; but, by all accounts, hehad brought the war into such a state, that if he werenot prevented by a successor, there was a reasonableprospect of being able to put an end to it in the courseof the ensuing summer.' By such arguments the tri­bunes so far prevailed, that the consuls declared thatthey would abide by the directions of the senate, if thecavillers would agree to do the same. Both partieshaving, accordingly, referred the determination in-tirely to those magistrates, a decree was passed, ap­pointing the two consuls to the government of the pro­vince of Italy. Titus Quintius was continued in com­mand, until a successor should be found. To eachtwo legions were decreed; and they were orderedwith these to carry on the war with the CisalpineGauls, who had revolted from the Romans. A rein­forcement of five thousand foot and three hundred horse