OCR Output 152 THE PEL0PONNESIAN WAR. " honoured. Their children from this day till they arrive at" manhood shall be educated at the public expence of the" State*, which hath appointed so beneficial a need for" these and all future relicts of the public contests. For" wherever the greatest rewards are proposed fo^ virtue," there the best of patriots are ever to be found.—j—Now," let every one respectively indulge the decent grief for hisM departed friends, and then retire." Such was the manner of the public funeral solemnizedthis winter, and with the end of which, the first year of thiswar was also ended. < YEAR II. JIN the very beginning of summer, the Pelopoinesiansand allies, with two-thirds of their forces, made an incursionas before into Attica, under the command of Arciidamusson of Zeuxidamus, king of the Lacedaemonians, anl having formed their camp, ravaged the country. They had not been many days in Attica, before af sick- • The law was, that they should be instructed at the public ejoence, andwhen come to age presented with a compleat suit of armour, aid honour­ed with the first seats in all public ptaces. t The historian in the funeral oration hath given us a very exaled idea ofthe Athenian state, and the distinguishing excellencies of that himune andpolite people. The plague, which now broke out enables him O contrasthis pieces, and give his history a most agreeable variety. It is iow goingto be exceeding solemn, serious, and pathetic. It is as a historian and notas a phytician that he gives us the relation of it: A relation, whiih in gene­ral hath been esteemed an elaborate and complete performance He pro-fesseth to give an accurate detail of it. The accuracy hath gentrally beenallowed, but it hath been blamed as too minute. Lucretius hovever hathtransferred all the circumstances mentioned by Thucydides into his ownpoem, 1.6. enlarging still more minutely upon them ; and yet, this is tbegreatest ornament, and certainly the least exceptionable part of sis poen-Lucretius, an excellent poet, affected to write with the precisionof a pli-losopher ; and Thucydides, the historian, always composed with the spirtof a poet. Hippocrates hath left some cases of the plague, which he hatirecited as a physician ; but not one of them is dated at Athens. Thuc;-dides hath mentioned nothing of his practising there, much less of hspractising with success, He says on the contrary that "all human atwas totally unavailing ;" and bis follower, Lucretius, that " Mussabat taci.