OCR Output THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUSV and to demonstrate to those that light upon this history, that you!bare no good-will, neither to the Romans, nor to the king. To'bs sure, the greatest cities of Galilee, O Justus ! were Sepphoris,and thy country Tiberias. But Sepphoris, situated in the verymidst of Galilee, and having many villages about it, and ablewith ease to have been bold and troublesome to the Romans, ifthey had so pleased, yet did it resolve to continue faithful to thosetheir masters, and at the same time excluded me out of their ci足ty, and prohibited all their citizens from joining with the Jews inthe war, and that they might be out of danger from me, they bya wile got leave of me to fortify their city with walls ; they al足so, of their own accord, admitted of a garrison of Roman legionsrsent them by Cestius Gallus, who was then president of Syria,and so had me in contempt, though I was then very powerful,and all were greatly afraid of me ; and at the same time that thegreatest of our cities, Jerusalem, was besieged, and that templeof ours, which belonged to us all, was in danger of falling underthe enemy's power, they sent no assistance thither, as not willingto have it thought they would bear arms against the Romans^But as for thy country, O Justus! situated upon the lake of Gen-nesareth, and distant from Hippos thirty furlongs, from Gadarasixty, and from Scythppolis, which was under the king's juris-diction-, an hundred and twenty ; when there was no Jewish citynear, it might easily have preserved its fidelity [to the Romans],if it had so pleased them to do ; for the city and its people hadplenty of weapons. But, as thou sayest, I was then the author[of thtir revolt]. And pray, O Justus ! who was that authorafterwards? For thou knowest that I was- in the power of theRomans before Jerusalem wasbesieged, and before the same timeJotapata was taken by force, as well as many other fortresses,and a great many of the Galileans fell in the war. It was there足fore then a proper time, when you were certainly freed fromany fear on my account, to throw away your weapons, and todemonstrate to the king and to the Romans, that it was not ofchoice, but as forced by necessity, that you fell into the war a-gainst them ; but you staid till Vespasian came himself as far asyour walls, with his whole army ; and then you did indeed layaside your weapons out of fear, and your city had for certainbeen taken by force, unless Vespasian had'complied with theking's supplication for you, and had excused your madness. Itwas not 1, therefore, who was the author of this, but your owninclinations to war. Do not you remember how often 1 got youunder my power, and yet put none of you to death ? nay, youonce fell into a tumult one against another, and slew one hundredand eighty.fivj of your citizens,' not on account of your good足will