OCR Output Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Ill he sent soldiers immediately, and ordered them to plunder theneighbouring villages, and to bring the most eminent persons a-mong them in bonds to him. Now, as this devastation wasmaking, one of the soldiers seized the laws of Moses that lay inone of those villages, and brought them out before the eyes of allpresent, and tore them to pieces ; and this was done with re-proachful language, and much scurrility. Which things whenthe Jews heard of, they ran together, and that in great numbers,and came down to Cesarea, where Cuvnanus then was,, and be­sought him that he would avenge, not themselves, but God him-self, whose laws had been affronted; for that they could not beatlo live any longer, if the laws of their forefathers must be affront­ed after this manner. Accordingly Cumanus, out of fear leftthe multitude should go into a sedition, and by the advice of hisfriends also, took care that the soldier who had offered the affrontto the laws should be beheaded, and thereby put a stop to the'^edition which was ready to be kindled a second time. CHAP. VI. flo'ui there happened a quarrel between the Jews and the Samari­tans, and how Claudius put an end to their differences. $ 1. "TVTOW there arose a quarrel between the Samaritans and,*-* the Jews on the occasion following : It was the customof the Galileans, when they came to the holy city at the festi­vals, to take their journeys through the country of the Sama­ritans * ; and at this time there lay, in the road they took, avillage that was called Ginoa, which was situated in the limitsof Samaria and the great plain, where certain persons theretobelonging fought with the Galileans, and killed a great many ofthem. But, when the principal of the Galileans were informedof what had been done, they came to Cumanus, and desired himto avenge the murder of those that were killed ; but he was in­duced by the Samaritans, with money, to do nothing in thematter; upon which the Galileans were much displeased, andpersuaded the multitude of the Jews to betake themselves toarms, and to regain their liberty, saying, That " slavery was" in itself a bitter thing, but that, when it was joined with di-" rect injuries, it was perfectly intolerable." And when theirprincipal men endeavoured to pacify them, and promised to en­deavour to persuade Cumanus to avenge those that were killed, Y 2 ° they * This constant passage of the Galileans through the country of Samaria, asthey went to Judea and Jerusalem, illustrates several passages in the gospels tothe same purpose, as Dr Hudson rightly observes. See Luke' xvii. i. John, iv. 4.See also Josephus in his own life, sect. 52 where that journey is determined t*three davs.