OCR Output >34 THE DECLINE AND FALL Death of Se-verus^and ac­cession of histwo sons,A. D. an.4th February. Jealousy andhatred of thetwo-emperor;. shorten the small remainder of his father's days, and endeavoured,-but without success, to excite a mutiny among the troops '5. The*old emperor had often censured the misguided lenity of Marcus,who, by a single act of justice, might have saved the Romans from,the tyranny of his worthless son. Placed in the same situation, heexperienced how easily the rigour of a judge dissolves away in the-tenderness of a parent. He deliberated, he threatened, but he couldnot punish -t and this last and only instance of mercy, was more fa­tal to the empire than a long series of cruelty "5. The disorder ofhis mind irritated the pains of his body; he wished impatiently fordeath, and hastened the instant of it by his impatience. He ex­pired at York in the sixty-fifth year of his life, and in the eighteenth*of a glorious and successful reign. In his last moments he recom­mended concord to his sons, and his sons to the army. The salu­tary advice never reached the heart, or even the understanding, ofthe impetuous youths; but the more obedient troops, mindful oftheir oath of allegiance,, and of the authority of their deceased master,resisted the solicitations of Caracalla, and proclaimed both brothersemperors of Rome. The new princes soon left the Caledonians inpeace, returned to the capital, celebrated their father's funeral withdivine honours, and were cheerfully acknowledged as lawful sove­reigns by the senate, the people, and the provinces. Some pre­eminence of rank seems to have been allowed to the elder brother;but they both administered the empire with equal and independentpower '7. Such a divided form of government would have proved a sourceof discord between the most affectionate brothers. It was impossiblethat it could long subsist between two implacable enemies, who nei­ther desired nor could trust a reconciliation. It was visible that oijeonly could reign, and that the other must fall; and each of themjudging of his rival's designs by his own, guarded his life with themost jealous vigilance from the repeated attacks of poison or the swordk.