OCR Output 1C THE ANNALS [A.U.C.767. said, " or to decline any part, would ill become the" man who wished to be dispensed with altogether."Gallus saw displeasure working in his countenance.With quickness and presence of mind he made an­swer, " The question was not put with intent to di-" vide what in its nature is united and indivisible. I" appealed to your own feelings. I wished to draw" from you a confession, that the commonwealth, be-" ing one body politic, requires one mind to direct" it." To this he added a panegyric on the charac­ter of Augustus; he expatiated on the victories ob­tained by Tiberius, and the civil employments whichhe had filled, with honour to himself, during a seriesof years. But this soothing strain had no effect. Theresentment of Tiberius was not to be pacified.Asinius Gallus had married Vipsania, the daughterof Marcus Agrippa, after her divorce from Tiberius.By that connexion he seemed to aspire above therank of a citizen; and the spirit of his father, AsiniusPollio, was still living in the son. XIII. Lucius Arruntius delivered his sentiments,nearly the same as Gallus had offered, and in likemanner gave offence. Tiberius harboured in hisbreast no lurking sentiment to Arruntius; but hewas jealous of a man, whom he saw flourishing inopulence, an ardent spirit, possessed of talents, andhigh in the esteem of the public. Augustus, more­over, in a conversation not long before his death,talking of the succession to the imperial dignity, dis­tinguished three several classes; in the first, he placedsuch as were worthy, but would decline the honour;in the se'cond, men of ambition, but of inferior talents;in the last, such as had genius to plan, and courageto undertake. Marcus Lcpidus, he said, was everyway qualified, but unwilling; Asinius Gallus hadmore ambition than merit; Lucius Arruntius was notonly equal to the task, but, if occasion oft'ered, wouldshow a spirit of enterprise. Of this anecdote, withregard to the two first, no doubt remains; but insteadof Arruntius, Cneius Piso, by some writers, is said tohave been named. Except Lepidus, they were after­wards all cut off for constructive crimes, artfully laid