OCR Output A. D. 15.] G3 OF TACITUS. down to the invasion of Gaul. The consternationwas such, that numbers proposed to demolish thebridge over the Rhine. Vile as the project was, therewere men who, through fear, would have been hardyenough to carry it into execution, if Agrippina hadnot prevented so foul a disgrace. Superior to theweakness of her sex, she took upon her, with an he­roic spirit, the functions of a general officer. She at­tended to the wants of the men; she distributed clothesto the indigent, and medicines to the sick. Pliny hasleft, in his history of the wars in Germany, a descrip­tion of Agrippina, at the head of the bridge, reviewingthe soldiers as they returned, and with thanks andcongratulations applauding their valour. This con­duct alarmed the jealous temper of Tiberius: " Such" active zeal," he said," sprung from sinister motives;" those popular virtues had not for their object the" enemies of Rome. The soldiers were caressed for" other purposes. What remained for the commander" if a woman can thus unsex herself at the head of" the eagles? She reviews the legions, and by larges-" ses draws to herself the affections of the men. Was" it not enough for her ambition, that she showed her" son to the army, and carried him from tent to tent," in the uniform of the common soldier, with the title" of Csesar Caligula? This woman towers above the" commanders of the legions, and even above their" general officer. She can suppress an insurrection," though the name and majesty of the prince makes"no impression." These were the reflections thatplanted thorns in the breast of Tiberius. By the artsof Sejanus, the malice of his heart was still more en­venomed. That minister studied the character of hismaster. He practised on his passions, and had theskill to sow in time the seeds of hatred, which heknew would work in secret, and at a distant daybreak out with collected force. LXX. Gcrmanicus, who had sailed with the legions,thought proper to lighten his ships, in order to renderthem more fit for the navigation of the Northern seas,full of sand-banks, and often dangerous hoth at theflood and the tide of ebb. ' With this view, he disem­