OCR Output 202 THE ATTEMPT OF MARIUS AT REVOLUTION [Book IV. the time. The arrangement of the legion became totally dif­ferent. The thirty companies (manipuli) of heavy infantry,which—each in two sections (centurke) composed respectivelyof sixty men in the two first, and of thirty men in the third,division—had hitherto formed the tactical unit, were replacedbv ten cohorts (cohortes) each with its own standard and eachof six, or often only of five, sections of one hundred menapiece; so that, although at the same time 1200 men weresaved by the suppression of the light infantry of the legion,yet the total numbers of the legion were raised from 4200to 6000 men. The custom of fighting in three divisions wasretained, bat, while previously each division had formed adistinct corps, it was in future left to the general to distri­bute the cohorts of which he had the disposal in the threelines as he thought best. Military rank was determinedsolely by the numerical order of the soldiers and of the divi­sions. The four standards of the several parts of thelegion—the wolf, the ox with a man's head,'the horse, theboar—which had hitherto probably been carried before thecavalry and the three divisions of heavy infantry, disap­peared ; there remained only the ensigns of the new cohorts,and the new standard which Marius gave to the legion asa whole—the silver eagle. Within the legion every traceof the previous civic and aristocratic classification thus dis­appeared, and the only distinctions henceforth occurringamong the legionaries were purely military; but accidentalcircumstances had some thirty years before this given rise toa privileged division of the army alongside of the legions—thebody guard of the general. It is traceable to the Numan-tine war, in which Scipio JEmilianus, not furnished by thegovernment with new troops as he desired, and compelled inpresence of an utterly unruly soldiery to have a care of hispersonal safety, had formed out of volunteers a band of 500men, and had afterwards received into it by way of rewardhis ablest soldiers (P. 16). This cohort, called that of thefriends or more usually that of the head-quarters (prcetoriani),had the duty of serving at head-quarters (prcetorium); in con­sideration of which it was exempt from encamping and en­trenching service, and enjoyed higher pay and greater repute.Political This complete revolution in the constitution of the Roman significauce army seems certainly in substance to have originated not inof the Ma- political, but in military, motives; and to have been not sotarvref" mucn tQe work of an individual, least of all of a man of cal­