OCR Output 456 , TITUS LIVKJS' BOOK V. on the spot. Whilst he was stripping off his spoils, hewas known by the enemy, and the report immediatelyspread through the whole army, that it was one of thelioman ambassadors. From that moment, all hostilitiesceased against the Clusians. A retreat was sounded,and nothing was heard but threats of vengeance againstRome. Some were of opinion, that they should instantlymarch thither; but the advice of the elder in the councilprevailed, who were of opinion, that they ought to beginby sending deputies to Rome, to complain of what badhappened, and to require that the Fabii should be deli­vered into their hands/ for having violated their charac­ter, and with it, the law of nations. After the Gaulic deputies had thus delivered theircommission, and made their demand, the senate weremuch dissatisfied with the conduct of the Fabii, and madeno objection to the justice of what the Barbarians insistedon. But a vicious complaisance for young persons oftheir distinction, prevented the senators from determin­ing what they thought no more than reasonable, on thisoccasion. Wherefore, that they might not be charge­able with the consequences, with which a rupture withthe Gauls might be attended, they referred the affair to ithe decision of the people. There the power and influ­ence of the delinquents prevailed so much, that far frompunishing them, the people named them to the militarytribuneship for the following year: The deputies, full ofthat indignation which may be easily conceived, return­ed, breathing only war and revenge. With the threeFabii, Q. Sulpicius Longus, Q. Servilius, a fourth time,nnd Ser. Cornelius Maluginensis, were created militarytribunes. CHAP. XXXVII. • The Gauls march to Rome. VV HEN Rome was threatened with such an inunda­tion of misery, she did not, as was usual, in the warsagainst the Fidenates, Vejentes, and other neighbouring •states, apply the last and most vigorous measure, in ap-"ointing a dictator; so much does fortune infatuate m en,