OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. of Rome. But this accidental benefit, which science might derivefrom folly, is surely insufficient to justify such a wanton abuse ofthe public riches. There occurs, however, a single instance in thefirst Punic war, in which the senate wisely connected this amuse­ment of the multitude with the interest of the state. A considerablenumber of elephants, taken in the defeat of the Carthaginian army,were driven through the circus by a few slaves, armed only withblunt javelins 9°. The useful spectacle served to impress the Romansoldier with a just contempt for those unwieldy animals; and heno longer dreaded to encounter them in the ranks of war. The hunting or exhibition of wild beasts, was conducted with a Theamphi-magnificence suitable to a people who styled themselves the mastersof the world; nor was the edifice appropriated to that entertain­ment less expressive of Roman greatness. Posterity admires, and willlong admire, the awful remains of the amphitheatre of Titus, whichso well deserved the epithet of Colossal''. It was a building of aneliptic figure, five hundred and sixty-four feet in length, and fourhundred and sixty-seven in breadth, founded on fourscore arches, andrising, with four successive orders of architecture, to the height ofone hundred and forty feet The outside of the edifice was en­crusted with marble, and decorated with statues. The sloping sidesof the vast concave, which formed the inside, were filled and sur­rounded with sixty or eighty rows of feats of marble likewise, co­vered with cushions, and capable of receiving with ease above four­score thousand spectators Sixty-four vomitories (for by that namethe doors were very aptly distinguished) poured forth the immensemultitude; and the entrances, passages, and stair-cafes, were.con­trived with such exquisite skill, that each person, whether of thesenatorial, the equestrian, or the plebeian order, arrived at his des­tined place without trouble or confusion 9+. Nothing was omittedwhich, in any respect, could be subservient to the convenience and pleasure