OCR Output 10 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. produced a deep effect: the army intrusted him with thesupreme command. Viriathus gave orders to the mass ofhis men to proceed in detached parties, by different routes,to the appointed rendezvous; he himself formed the bestmounted and most trustworthy into a corps of 1000 horse,with which he covered the departure of the rest. TheRomans, who wanted light cavalry, did not venture to dis­perse for the pursuit under the eyes of the enemy's horse­men. After Viriathus and his band had for two whole daysheld in check the entire Roman army, he suddenly disap­peared during the night and hastened to the general ren­dezvous. The Roman general followed him, but fell into anadroitly laid ambuscade, in which he lost the half of hisarmy and was himself captured and slain; with difficultythe rest of the troops escaped to the colony of Carteianear to the straits. In all haste 5000 men of the Spanishmilitia were despatched from the Ebro to reinforce the de­feated Romans; but Viriathus destroyed the corps whilestill on its march, and commanded so absolutely thewhole interior of Carpetania that- the Romans did noteven venture to seek him there. Viriathus, now recognizedas lord and king of all the Lusitanians, knew how to com­bine the full dignity of his princely position with the homelyhabits of a shepherd. No badge distinguished him from thecommon soldier: he rose from the richly adorned marriage-table of his father-in-law, the prince Astolpa in RomanSpain, without having touched the golden plate and thesumptuous fare, lifted his bride on horseback, and rode offwith her to his mountains. He never took more of the spoilthan the share which he allotted to each of his comrades.The soldier recognized the general simply by his tall figure,by his striking sallies of wit, and above all by the fact thathe surpassed every one of his men in temperance as well asin toil, sleeping always in full armour and fighting in front ofall in battle. It seemed as if in that thoroughly prosaic ageone of the Homeric heroes had reappeared: the name ofViriathus resounded far and wide through Spain; and thebrave nation conceived that in him at length it had foundthe man who was destined to break the fetters of aliendomination.His sue- Extraordinary successes in northern and southern Spain marked the next years of his leadership (606-608). GaiusLaelius indeed kept the field against him; but, after destroy- 148-146.