OCR Output an. 1466.] 157 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to their political government. WhereuponGod was provoked to anger, and put them inmind, first how contrary to his directions theyhad spared the Canaanites; and, after that,how those Canaanites, as opportunity served,used them very barbarously. But the Israel­ites, though they were in heaviness at theseadmonitions from God, yet were they stillvery unwilling to go to war. And since theygot large tributes from the Canaanites, andwere indisposed for taking pains by theirluxury, they suffered their aristocracy to becorrupted also, and did not ordain themselvesa senate, nor any such magistrates as theirlaws had formerly required. But they werevery much given to cultivating their fields,in order to get wealth; which great indolenceof theirs brought a terrible sedition uponthem; and they proceeded so far as to fightone against another, from the following occa­sion. There* was a Levite,f a man of a vulgarfamily, that belonged to the tribe of Ephraim,and dwelt therein. This man married a wifefrom Bethlehem, which is a place belongingto the tribe of Judah. Now he was very fondof his wife, and overcome with her beauty;but he did not meet with a return of affection,for she was averse to him; which did moreinflame his passion for her. So they quar­relled one with another perpetually; and atlast the woman was so disgusted at thesequarrels, that she left her husband, and wentto her parents, in the fourth month. Thehusband being very uneasy at her departure,went to his father and mother-in-law, madeup their quarrels, and lived with them therefour days, as being kindly treated. On thefifth day he resolved to go home, and wentaw>y in the evening; for his wife's parentswere loth to part with their daughter, anddelayed the time till the day was gone. Nowthey had one servant that followed them, andan ass on which the woman rode; and when they were near Jerusalem, having gone al-readyJ thirty furlongs, the servant advisedthem to take up their lodgings somewhere,lest some misfortune should befal them, ifthey travelled in the night, especially sincethey were not far off enemies; that seasonoften giving reason for suspicion of dangersfrom even such as are friends. But the hus­band was not pleased with this advice, norwas he willing to take up his lodging amongstrangers; for the city belonged to the Ca­naanites; but desired rather to go twentyfurlongs farther, and so take their lodging insome Israelite city. Accordingly he came toGibeah, a city of the tribe of Benjamin, whenit was just dark; and while no one that livedin the market-place invited him to lodge withhim, there came an old man out of the field;one that was indeed of the tribe of Ephraim,but resided in Gibeah, and asked him, whohe was? for what reason he came thither solate? and why he was looking out for pro­visions for supper when it was dark? to whichhe replied that he was a Levite, and wasbringing his wife from her parents, and wasgoing home; but he told him his habitationwas in the tribe of Ephraim. So the old man,as well because of their kindred, as becausethey lived in the same tribe; and also becausethey had thus accidentally met together, tookhim to lodge with him. Now certain youngmen, of the inhabitants of Gibeah, havingseen the woman in the market-place, and ad­miring her beauty, when they understood thatshe lodged with the old man, came to thedoors, as contemning the weakness and few­ness of the old man's family. And when theold man desired them to go away, and not tooffer any violence or abuse there; they de­sired him to yield them up the strange wo-.uan, and then he should have no harm doneto him. And when the old man alleged,that the Levite was of his kindred; and thatthey would be guilty of horrid wickedness if * Josephus's early date of this history, before the be­ginning of the Judges, or when there was no king in Israel,Judges xix. 1. is strongly confirmed by the large numberof Benjamites, both in the days of Asa and Jehoshaphat;2 Chron. xtv. 8. and xvi. 17. who yet were here reducedto 6O0 men. Nor can those numbers be at all supposedgenuine, if they were reduced so late as the end of theJudges, where our other copies place this reduction. t About An. 1460 B. C. J Reland, in his Palestina, tom. II. p. 810. finds a con- tradiction in Josephus, as to the distance of Gibeah of Saulin the tribe ofBenjamin, from Jerusalem, 30 furlongs here:but of the War, V. 2. 20 furlongs, and no more. Yet isthere no necessity of making these two places to contra­dict each other. These 20 furlongs only they had now togo to Gibeah indeed; but it was not from Jerusalem, butfrom the place where they now were; which might easilybe eight or ten furlongs from Jerusalem in the way toGibeah. So that here does not appear any real contra­diction at all. Nn2