OCR Output C. I.] THE TOWER OF ANTONIA. 245 combatants trod upon the bodies and the armor of those thatwere dead, and dashed them to pieces. Accordingly, to whichside soever the battle inclined those that had the advantageexhorted one another to go on, as did those that were beatenmake great lamentation. But still there was no room forflight nor for pursuit, but disorderly revolutions and retreats,while the armies were intermixed one with another; but thosethat were in the first ranks were under the necessity of kill­ing or being killed, without any way for escaping; for thoseon both sides that came behind forced those before them togo on, without leaving any space between the armies. Atlength the Jews' violent zeal was too hard for the Romanskill, and the battle already inclined entirely that way; forthe fight had lasted from the ninth hour of the night to theseventh hour of the day, while the Jews came on in crowds,and had the danger the temple was in for their motive; theRomans having no more here than a part of their army; forthose legions on which the soldiers on that side dependedwere not to come up to them. So it was at present thoughtsufficient by the Romans to take possession of the tower ofAntonia. 8. But there was one Julian, a centurion, that came fromBithynia, a man he was of great reputation, whom I had for­merly seen in that war, and one of the highest fame, both forhis skill in war, his strength of body, and the courage of hissoul. This man seeing the Romans giving ground, and in asad condition, for he stood by Titus at the tower of Antonia,leaped out, and of himself alone put the Jews to flight, whenthey were already conquerors, and made them retire as faras the corner of the inner court of the temple: from him themultitude fled away in crowds, as supposing that neither hisstrength nor his violent attacks could be those of a mere man.Accordingly, he rushed through the midst of the Jews, asthey were dispersed all abroad, and killed those that hecaught. Nor, indeed, was there any sight that appeared morewonderful in the eyes of Caesar, or more terrible to others,than this. However, he was himself pursued by fate, which 21 * '