OCR Output 150 DECLINE AND PALL [CHAP. XLI. epistle was subscribed by the reluctant hand of the cap­tive queen: but the confession of the Roman senators,who were sent to Constantinople, revealed the truth ofher deplorable situation; and Justinian, by the voice ofa new ambassador, most powerfully interceded for herlife and liberty. Yet the secret instructions of the sameminister were adapted to serve the cruel jealousy of The­odora, who dreaded the presence and superior charms ofa rival: he prompted, with artful and ambiguous hints,the execution of a crime so useful to the Romans ;k re­ceived the intelligence of her death with grief and indig­nation, and denounced, in his master's name, immortalwar against the perfidious assassin. In Italy, as well asin Africa, the guilt of an usurper appeared to justify thearms of Justinian; but the forces which he prepared,were insufficient for the subversion of a mighty king­dom, if their feeble numbers had not been multiplied bythe name, the spirit, and the conduct of a hero. Achosen troop of guards, who served on horseback, andwere armed with lances and bucklers, attended the personof Belisarius: his cavalry was composed of two hundredHuns, three hundred Moors, and four thousand confe­derates, and the infantry consisted only of three thou­sand Isaurians. Steering the same course as in his for­mer expedition, the Roman consul cast anchor beforeCatana in Sicily, to survey the strength of the island, andto decide whether he should attempt the conquest, orpeaceably pursue his voyage for the African coast. Hefound a fruitful land and a friendly people. Notwith­standing: the decay of agriculture, Sicily still suppliedthe granaries of Rome; the farmers were graciously ex­empted from the oppression of their military quarters;and the Goths, who trusted the defence of the island tothe inhabitants, had some reason to complain, that their * Yet Procopius discredits his own evidence (Anecdot. c. 16.) by'confessinsr,that in his public history he had not spoken the truth. See the .'epistles from queenGundelina to the empress Theodora,(Var. 10. 20, 21. 23. and observe a suspiciousword, de persona, &c). with the elaborate Commentary of Boat. (torn. 10. n.