OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. Under the successors of Alexander, Syria was the feat of the sr\3' p,'œ- * nitia, and Seleucidæ, who reigned over Upper Asia, till the successful revolt Palestine,of the Parthians confined their dominions between the Euphratesand the Mediterranean. When Syria became subject to the Romans,it formed the eastern frontier of their empire, nor did that province,in its utmost latitude, know any other bounds than the moun­tains of Cappadocia to the north, and towards the south, the con-sines of Egypt, and the Red Sea. Phœnicia and Palestine weresometimes annexed to, and sometimes separated from, the jurisdictionof Syria. The former of these was a narrow and rocky coast; thelatter was a territory scarcely superior to Wales, either in fertilityor extent. Yet Phœnicia and Palestine will for ever live in thememory of mankind; since America, as well as Europe, has receivedletters from the one, and religion from the other8'. A sandydesert skirted along the doubtful confine of Syria, from the Eu­phrates to the Red Sea. The wandering life of the Arabs was in­separably connected with their independence, and wherever, onsome spots less barren than the rest, they ventured to form anysettled habitations, they soon became subjects of the Romanempire 8+. The geographers of anticmity have sometimes hesitated to what Egypt,portion of the globe they should ascribe Egypt8J. Its situation isincluded within the immense peninsula of Africa, but it is accessibleonly on the side of Asia, whose revolutions, in almost every periodof history, Egypt has humbly obeyed. A Roman præfect wasseated on the splendid throne of the Ptolemies; and the iron sceptreof the Mamalukes is now in the hands of a Turkish pastia. TheNile flows down the country, above five hundred miles from thetropic of Cancer to the Mediterranean, and marks, on either side,the extent of fertility by the measure of its inundations. Cyrene,situate towards the west, and along the sea-coast, was first a Greek Vol. I. E colony,