OCR Output TRITON'. TROAS. 1233 >ii Tirraconensis, an the river Dcva or Derates. [Mek, iii. 1.) It is commonly identified with1 ... winch, however, does not lie on the Deva;ad Manner! (i. p. 365) seeks it near ilondragon,□ Guiputcoa. [T. II. D.] TIUTON" (oTpiTWK wotomoj, Plol. iv. 3. § 19,ic),t river of Libya, forming, according; to Ptolemy,M boundary of the Kegio Syrtica towards the W. Itni in Mount Vaulaetus, and, flowing in a northerlyfirKtioo, passed through three lakes, the LibyaI'alus, ibe lake Pallaa, and the lake Tritonitis (h•»..:•< Ai'msii, 76.); after which it fell into the ■ in the innennost part of the Syrtis Minor he-«rcn Macoinada and Tacape, bat nearer to the»'t«. The lake TritonitU of Ptolemy is called, how-ver, by other writers Tritonis TptruvU Alunj,lenaj. ir. 179). Herodotus secma to confound it'ilk the Lesser Syrtis itself; but Scylax (p. 49),bo give* it a circumference of 1000 stadia, de-tribes it as connected with the Syrtis by a narrowfeoing, and as surrounding a small island,—thatdied by Herodotus (i6. 178) Phla (♦Aa), which> aU> mentioned by Strabo (xrii. p. 836), as con-uaiiij a temple of Aphrodite, and by Dionysiu*.I'rriej. 267.) This lake Tritonis is undoubtedlyie present SchibkaH-ti-Lovdjuh, of which, accord-e to Shaw « /,-.,»,',, i. p. 237), the other two»c* are merely parts; whilst the river Triton is« present Kl-JIammah. This river, indeed, is noconnected with the lake (Shaw, 76.); a^umstance, however, which affords no essentialwind for doubting the identity of the two streams;•ce in those regions even larger rivers are some-oea compelled hy the quicksands to alter their'arse. (Cf. Kilter, Erdkmdc, i. p. 1017). Scylax t) mentions also another island called TrilonosKiran-oi) in the Syrtis Minor, which last itself is,rording to him, only part of a large Sinus Tri-■ites (TprrarWrnj a-oAs-or).Same writers confound the lake Tritonis with thor of tlie Hesperides, and seek it iu other districtsLibya; sometimes in Mauretania, in the neigh-r'l.'vd of Mount Atlas and the Atlantic Ocean,aetitnea in Cyrenaica near Berenice and the riverLiico or I<eluon. The latter hypothesis is adoptedLucan (ix. 346, seq.), the former by Diodorusolus (iii. 53). who also attributes to it an islandsoiled by the Amazons. But Strabo (/. c.)sriaUyr distinguishes the lake of the Hesperides ■ the lake Tritonis. \ ith this lake is connected the question of thenet Tritogeneia, applied to Pallas as early as the• of Homer and Hesiod. But though the Li-D river and lake were much renowned in an-t times (cC Aeschyl. Aion. 293; Eurip. Ivn,. se«i.; l'md. J"yth. iv. 36, &c), and the appli-■n of the name of Pallas to the lake connectedi the Tritouis seems to point to these Africanrra aa having given origin to the epithet, itsvertheless meet probable that the brook TritonAlalcomenM in Boeotia has the best pretrn-a to that distinciion. (Cf. Pausan. ix. 33. § 5;)L ad A potion. Mod i. 109, iv. 1315; Muller,hununot, p- 355; Leake, Northern Greta,ii. p. 13G, aeq.; Kruse, JJtilat, vol. ii. pt. 175. [T. H. D ] UTOH (T/MTew, Died. t. 72), a river of Cretee source of which Athene was said to have beenFrom its) connection with the Omphaliau, it ia idenlilied with the river discharging itself into the sea on the X. coast of the islandwhich is called PUityprramn, but changes its nameto Gkuifiro as it approaches the shore. (Pasliley,TrartU. vol, i. p. 225.) [E. B. J.] TRITON (TpiTsM-), a river of Boeotia. [Vol. Lp. 413, a.] TRITURRITA. [Pisae.] TRIVICUM (Trerico), a town of Samnium, inthe country of the Hirpini, not fur from the frontiersof Apulia. Its name is known to us only fromHorace, who slept there (or at least at a villa inits immediate neighbourhood) on his well-knownjourney to Brundusium. (II r. Sat. i. 5. 79.) Itappears therefore that it was situate! on the ViaAppia, or the line of road then frequented fromRome to Brundusiam. But this was not thesame which was followed in later times, and isgiven in the Itineraries under that name, a cir­cumstance which has given rise to much confusionin the topography of this part of Italy. [ViaAr-rtA.] There ran be no doubt that Trivicumoccupied nearly, if not exactly, the same site withthe modern Trtvico: the ancient road appears tohave passed along the valley at the foot of the hillon which it was situated. It was here that stoodthe villa to which Horace alludes, and some remainsof Roman buildings, as well as of the pavement ofthe ancient road, still visible in the time of I'ratilli,served to mark the site more accurately. (I'ratilli.Via Appia, iv. 10. p. 507; Romanelli, vol. ii. p.350.) It probably never was a municipal town, asits name is not mentioned by any of the geo­graphers. [E. H. B.] TRIUMPILI'NI, an Alpine people of NorthernItaly, who are mentioned by Augustus in the in­scription in which he recorded the final subjugutiouof the Alpine tribes (ap. Plin. iii. 20. s. 24). Itappears from Pliny that the whole people was re­duced to slavery and sold together with their lunds.According to Cato they were of Euganean race, iswell as their neighbours the Camuui, with whomthey are repeatedly mentioned in common. (Plin.L c.) Henco there is little doubt that they werethe inhabitants of the district still called VtUTrompia, the upper valley of the Mtlla, andserrated only by an intervening ridge of moun­tains from the Yal Cumonica, the land of theCainuni. [E. H. B.] TROAS (Tpexit, Town, Tpola, or 'IAiar yv), theterritory ruled over by the ancient kings of Troy orIlium, which retained its ancient and venerable namoeven at a time when the kingdom to which it hadoriginally belonged had long ceased to exist. Homerhimself nowhere describes the extent of Troas or itsfrontiers, and even leaves us in the dark as to howfar the neighbouring allies of the Trojans, such asthe Dardanians, who were governed by princes oftheir own, of the family of Priam, were true alliesor subjects of the king of Ilium. In later times,Troas was a part of Mysia, comprising the coastdistrict on the Aegean from Cape Lectum to theneighbourhood of llardanua and Abydus on the Hel­lespont; while inland it extended about 8 geograph-ical miles, that is, as far as Mount Ids, so as toembrace the south coast of Mysia opposite the islandof Lesbos, together with the towns of Ass us andAntandrus. (Horn. IL xxiv. 544; Herod, vii. 42.)Strabo, from his well-known inclination to magnifythe empire of Troy, describes it as extending from theAesopua to the Caicus, and his view is adopted by t heScholiast on Apollonius Rhodius (i. 1115). In its 4 K IU u.