OCR Output SALAMIS. 877 SALAMIS. .vagurai with his son Puytagoras was assassinated.1 » eunuch, slave of Nicocreon (Aristot. Pul. v. | • § 10; Diuuto. xv. 47; Theopomp. Fr. iii. ed.W"*). and was succeeded by another son of the*ro<- of Xicocle*. The Graeco- Aegyptian fleet un-rr 3leotlaiu and his brother Ptolemy Sutcr wasItexlj drfeated off the harbour of Salami* in a sea-gal, lie greatest in all antiquity, by Demetrius -. .o-to., a. c. 3t)6. (Diodor. xx. 45—53.) Theinv«u rourteian Lamia funned a part of the bootyIVtneu-ius, orer whom she soon obtained un-«-i»lrd influence. Finally, Salamis came into theof Ptolemy. (Plut. Demttr. 35; I'olyaen.riiuy. 5.) Under the Roman Empire the Jewsif numerous in Salamis (AcU, xiii. 6), where*y liad ninre than one synagogue. The farm-c "I the copper mines of the island to HerodAmtiq. it. 14. § 5) may have swelled thewho were attracted by the advantages of itsrmtir and trade, especially its manufactures oftrwiered stuff). (Atben. ii. p. 48.) In the•J»*»bl« revolt of the Jews in the reign of Trajan • f'paJou* city became a desert. (Milmart, //i»«.'*»* An, vol iii. pp. 111, 112.) Its demolition» ^inpjrted by an earthquake: but it was rebuilt a Christian emperor, from whom it was namedMIUTU. It was then the metropolitan see of- iWand. Epiphanius, the chronicler of theMical sects, was bishop of Constantia in A. o.7. In the reign of Heraclius the new town wasitrored by the Saracens. Tuf ground lies low in the neighbourhood of»-!•>. sml the town was situated on a bight of theat to the X. of the river Pediaeus. This low • is the largest plain—Salami.ma—in Cyprus,ifrai&j? inward between the two niountuin ranges±- heart of the country where the modemii ~'i c-af4tal—.Vicosia—is situated. In the Lifei 1 ri*tUa vf St. 7*hm/, by Coneybeure slid How-(txJ. i. p. 169). will he found a plan of the har-■i >-r«i nuns ot Salamis, from the survey made by"uud Grave*. Fur coins of Salamis, see Eckhd, ui.p.87. [E. 11. J.] v\ l.AiJIS (ZaAo/ur, -iWof: Eth. and Ailj. 2a-anef, Salaminius: Adj. SoAcumwoko's, Suls-AWwi), an island lying between the iof Altira and the eastern coast ofand forming the southern boundary of theaf Elrtuia. It is separated from the coasts. -if Attica and of Mcgaris by only a narrowia i. Its form is that of an irregular semicirclethe west, with many small indentationsa* the ooaaat. Its greatest length, from X. to S., IBoot 10 miles, and its width, in its broadestI, fnan E- to W.. is a little more. Its length is■rtly grrven by Stxabo (ix. p. 393) as from 70"i <a>iia. In ancient times it is said to havei railesl Pttynssa (rim/ovo-ira), from the pinesr.i grew there, and also Sciras (2xipd>) andaKKJA (Kwxf**'a)« f™1** the names of two he-«w-irua ax*d Cychreus. The former was at< brro, and the Utter a seer, who raine from><s to Athens, and perished along with Ereeh-» iu righting against Eumolpus. (Strab. ix.S3. Paw- i. 36. § 1; I'liilochor. np. Plut.i IT.) The latter name was per|*tuated inu-~i for Aeschylus (Peri. 570) speaks of thee. K»xP****' an<* Stephanos B. mentions awsrj-w*. The island is said to have ul>-■1 the name of Salamia from the mother ofi.-,u3 who was also a daughter of Asopus. (Pans. i. 35. § 2.) It was colonised at an earlyperiod by the Aeacidne of Acgina. Telamon, theson of Aeacus, fled thither after the murder of hishalf-brother Phocus, and became sovereign of theisland. (Paus. i. 35. § 1.) His son Ajax accom­panied the Greeks with 12 Salaminian ships to theTrojan War. (Horn. //. ii. 557.) Salamis con­tinued to be an imle|>endeut state till about thebeginning of the 40th Olympiad (u. c. 620). when adispute arose fur its possession between the Atheniansand Megarians. Afiera long struggle, it first fell intothe hands of the Megarians, hut was subsequentlytaken possession of by the Athenians through a stra­tagem of Solon. (Plut. Sol. 8, 9; Paus. i. 40. § 5.)Both parties appealed to the arbitration of Sparta.The Athenians supported their claims by a line inthe Iliad, which represents Ajsx ranging his shipswith those of the Athenians (//. ii. 558). but thisverse was susjected to have been an interpolation ofSolun or Peisistratus; and the Megarians citedanother version of the line. The Athenians, more­over, asserted that the inland had lieeu made overto them by Philaeus and Eurysnces, sons of theTelamonian Ajsx, when they took up their ownresidence in Attica. These arguments were con­sidered sufficient, and Salamis was adjudged to theAthenians. (Plut. Sol. 10; Strab. ix. p. 394.)It now became an Attic demus, and continued in­corporated with Attica till the times of Macedoniansupremacy. In B.C. 318, the inhabitants volun­tarily received a Macedonian garrison, after havingonly a short time before successfully resided Cas-sander. (Diod. xviii. 69; Polyaen. Strat. iv. II.§ 2; Paus. i. 35. § 2.) It continued in the hands ofthe Macedonians till n. c. 232, when the Athenians,by the assistance of Arstus, puivhnsed it from theMacedonians together with Munychia and Sunium.Thereupon the Sulauiinians were exalted from theisland, and their lands divided among Atheniancleruchi. (Plut. Aral. 34 ; Paus. ii. 8. § C; Buckli,Itucr. vol. i. p. 148, seq.) Prom that time Salamisprobably continued to be a dependency of Athens,like Acgina and Oropus; since the grammariansnever call it a Si>»», which it hod been originally,but generally a woAir. The old city of Salamis, the residence of the Te­lamonian Ajax, stood upon the southern side of theisland towards Aegina (Strab. ix. p. 393). and isidentified by Leake with the remains of some Hellenicw-alls upon the south-western coast near a smallport, where is the only rivulet in the island, perhapsanswering to the Bocarus or Bocamas of Strsbo(ix. p. 394: Leake, f)rmi, p. 169). The Bocarusis also mentioned by Lycopltron (451). In anotherpassage, Strabo (ix. p. 424) indeed speaks of uriver Cephissus in Salamis; but as it occurs onlyin an enumeration of various rivers of this name,and immediately follows the Athenian Ccphissuswithout any mention beini; made of the ElcusinianCephissus, we ought probably to read with Leakeiv 'EAfi/tfifi instead of iv SaAa/uii When Salamis became an Athenian demus, a newcity was built at the head of a bay upon the easternside of the island, and opjiosite the Attic coA&t. Inthe time of Pausanius this city alsu had fallen intodecay. There remained, however, a ruined agoraand a temple of Ajax, containing a statue of thehero in ebony; also a temple of Artemis, the trophyerected in honour of the victory gained over thePersians, and a temple of Cychreus. (Paus. i. 35.§ 3, 36. § I.) Pausauias has not mentioned the