OCR Output 440 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II. neighbouring country, when they were informed of this plot,and of the plotter, they got together in great multitudes to op­pose John. But he prevented their attempt, and fled away toGischala, his native city, while the Galileans came running outof their several cities to Josephus; and as they were now becomemany ten thousands of armed men, they cried out, that they werecome against John the common plotter against their interest, andwould at chesame time burn him,and that city which had receivedhim. Hereupon Josephus told them that he took their good,will to him kindly, but still he restrained their fury, and intend­ed to subdue his enemies by prudent conduct, rather than byslaying them ; so he excepted those of every city which had join­ed in this revolt with John, by name, who had readily beenshewed him by these that came from every city, and caused pub­lic proclamation to be made, that he would seize uppn the effectsof those that d id not forsake J ohn within five days time, and wouldburn both their houses and their families with fire. Whereuponthree thousand of John's party left him immediately, who cameto Josephus, and threw their arms down at his feet. John thenbetook himself, together with his two thousand Syriaan runa­gates, from open attempts, to more secret ways of treachery.Accordingly he privatelysent messengers to Jerusalem, to accuseJosephus, as having too great power, and to let them know thathe would soon come, as a tyrant, to their metropolis, unlessthey prevented him. This accusation the people were aware ofbeforehand, but had no regard to it. However, some of thegrandees, out of envy, and some of the rulers also, sent money toJohn privately, that he might be able to get together mercenarysoldiers, in order to fight Josephus; they also made a decree ofthemselves, and this for recalling him from his government, yetdid they not think that decree sufficient; so they sent withal twothousand five hundred armed men, and four persons of the high­est rank amongst them; Joarar, the son of Nomicus, and Ana­nias, the son of Sadduk,as alsoSimon and Judas,the sons of Jona­than,all veryablemen in speaking.that these personsmightwith­draw the good-will of the people from Josephus. These had itincharge if he would voluntarily come away, they should permithim to [come and] give an account of his conduct,but if he obstinrately insisted upon his continuing in his government,they shouldtreat him as an enemy. Now Josephus's friends had sent himword that an army was coming against him, but they gave nonotice beforehand what the reason of their coming was, that beingoily known among some secret councils of his enemies; andby this means it was that four cities revolted from him imme­diately, Sepphoris, and Gamala, and Gischala, and 1 iberias.Ytt did he recover these cijies without war, and when he had routed