OCR Output 'O F R O M E. to transfer all the blame of that event from himfelf B O O Kon his colleague, who was already condemned; and, .^^--^as he had conducted bufinefs with fuccefs, both in Y.R. 331.the country of the Volfcians when conful, under the B'c.*10'aufpices of the dictator Poftumius Tubertus; andalfo, at Fidena?, when lieutenant-general to anotherdictator, Mamercus ./Emilius, all the tribes acquittedhim. It is faid, that his caufe was much indebted tothe memory of his father Cincinnatus, a man held inhigh veneration; and likewife to Quintius Capitoli-nus, who, being now extremely old, begged withhumble fupplications, that they would not fuffer himwho had fo fhort a time to live, to carry fuch difmal, tidings to Cincinnatus. XLII. THE commons created Sextus Tempani- £•£• 3J3.us, Aulus Sellius, Lucius Antiftius, and Sextus Pom-pilius, in their abfence, plebeian tribunes; thefe beingthe perfons whom, by the advice of Tempanius, thehorfemen had appointed to command them as cen­turions. The fenate, finding that, through the gene­ral averfion to Sempronius, the name of conful wasbecome difpleafing, ordered military tribunes, withconfular power, to be chofen. Accordingly therewere elected Lucius Manlius Capitolinus, QuintusAntonius Merenda, and Lucius Papirius Mugillanus.No fooner had the year begun, than Lucius Horten-fius, a plebeian tribune, commenced a profecution *againft Caius Sempronius, conful of the preceding year. * A profecution, before the people, was a rery tedious bufinefs, andafforded the perfon acculed many chances of efcaping, even though hefhould not be able to prove his innocence: he might prevail on theprofecutor to relinquifh the charge, or on a plebeian tribune tu inter*pofc, or on the augurs to report ill omens on the day of the aflemblyfor the decifion; or, at the worlt, he might go into voluntary exile;4 vertere folurn exilii gratia.' A magiftrate, who intended to impeacha perfon before the people, mounted theroftrurn, and gave notice, that,on fuch a day, he intended to accufe that perfon of fuch a crime; onwhich the party he accufed was obliged to give bail for his appearance,which if he failed to do, he was thrown into piifon. On the day ap­pointed, the people being affcmbled, by centuries if the crime charged \D D 4. WM