OCR Output Chap. XIX. WARS OF THE JEWS. 425 and gave order, that if they could take that city [by surprise]they should keep it; but that in case the citizens should perceivethey were coming to attack them, that they then should stay forhim, and for the rest of the army. So some of them made abrisk march by the sea side, and some by land, and so coming up­on them On both sides, they took the city with ease: and as theinhabitants had made no provision aforehand for a flight, nor hadgotten any thing ready for fighting, the soldiers fell upon them,and slew them all, with their families, and then plundered andburnt the city. The number of the slain was eight thousandfour hundred. In like manner Cestius sent also a considerablebody of horsemen to the toparchy of Narbatene, that adjoinedto Cesarea, who destroyed the country, and slew a great multi­tude' of its people; they also plundered what they had, and burnttheir villages. 11. But Cestius sent Gallus, the commander of the twelfthlegion, into Galilee^ and delivered to him as many of his forcesas he supposed sufficient to subdue that nation. He was receiv­ed by the strongest city of Galilee, which was Sepphoris, withacclamations of joy; which wise conduct of that city occasionedthe rest of the cities to be in quiet; while the seditious part, andthe robbers ran away to that mountain which lies in the very-middle of Galilee, and is situated over against Sepphoris; it iscalled Asamon. So Gallus brought his forces against them:but while those men were in the superior parts above the Ro-iiians, they easily threw their darts upon the Romans, as theymade their approaches, and slew about two hundred of them.But when the Romans had gone round the mountains, and weregotten into the parts above their enemies, the others were soonbeaten; nor could they who had only light armour on, sustainthe force of them that fought them armed all over; nor whenthey u'ere beaten could they escape the enemies horsemen; in­somuch that only some few concealed themselves in certain placeshard to become at, among the mountains, while the rest, abovetwo thousand in number, were slain. CHAP. XIX. What Cestius did against the Jews ; and how, upon bis besiegingJerusalem, he retreatedfrom the city, without any just occasionin the world. As also -what severe calamities he under went fromthe Jews in his retreat. $ 1. A ND now Gallus seeing nothing more that looked to- £\. wards an innovation in Galilee, returned with his arany to Cesarea; but Cestius removed with his whole army, VOL. III. 3 H and