OCR Output AN. 39.] 529 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. city; and not to bear any old grudge at evenhis most open enemies; but was ready toforget the offences which his greatest adver­saries had done him. But Antigonus, byway of reply to what Herod had caused tobe proclaimed, and this before the Romans,and before Silo also, said, that they wouldnot do justly if they gave the kingdom toHerod; who was no more than a privateman, and an Idumean, i. e. *a half Jew:whereas they ought to bestow it on one ofthe royal family, as their custom was. Forthat in case they at present bare any ill-willto him, and had resolved to deprive him ofthe kingdom, as having received it from theParthians; yet were there many others of hisfamily that might by their flaw take it, andthese such as had no way offended the Ro­mans; and being of sacerdotal family, itwould be an unworthy thing to put them by.Now while they said thus one to another, andfell to reproaching one another on both sides,Antigonus permitted his own men, that wereupon the wall, to defend themselves. Whousing their bows, and shewing great alacrityagainst their enemies, easily drove themaway from the towers. And now it was that Silo discovered thathe had taken bribes. For he set a goodnumber of his soldiers to complain aloud ofthe want of provisions they were in; and torequire money to buy them food; and that itwas fit to let them go into places proper forwinter quarters; since the places near thecity were a desert, by reason that Antigonus'ssoldiers had carried all away. So he set thearmy upon removing, and endeavoured toinarch away. But Herod pressed Silo not todepart; and exhorted Silo's captains andsoldiers not to desert him, when Caesar, andAntony, and the senate. had sent him thither.For that he would provide them plenty of allthe things they wanted; and easily procurethem a great abundance of what they re­quired. After which entreaty he immediately'went out into the country, and left not theleast pretence to Silo for his departure. For * This affirmation of Antigonus's, spoken in the daysof Herod, and in a manner to his face, that he was anIdumean, i. e. a half Jew, seems to me of much greaterauthority than that pretence of his favourite and flatterer,Nicolaus of Damascus, that he derived his pedigree fromthe Jews, as far hackward as the Babylonish captivity,chap. 1. Accordingly Josephus always esteems him an he brought an unexpected quantity of provi­sions; and sent to those friends of his whoinhabited'about Samaria, to bring down corn,and wine, and oil, and cattle, and all otherprovisions, to Jericho; that there might beno want of a supply for the soldiers for thetime to come. Antigonus was sensible ofthis: and sent presently over the countrysuch as might restrain, and lie in ambush for,those that went out for provisions. So thesemen obeyed the orders of Antigonus, and gottogether a great number of armed men aboutJericho; and sat about the mountains, andwatched those that brought the provisions.However, Herod was not idle in the meantime. For he took ten bands of soldiers, ofwhom five were of the Romans, and five ofthe Jews, with some mercenaries amongthem, and with some few horsemen, and cameto Jericho. And as they found the city de­serted, but that five hundred of them hadsettled themselves on the tops of the hills,with their wives and children, those he took,and sent away. But the Romans fell uponthe city, and plundered it; and found thehouses full of all sorts of good things. So theking left a garrison at Jericho, and cameback again; and sent the Roman army totake their winter quarters in the countriesthat were come over to him: Judea, andGalilee, and Samaria. And so much did An­tigonus gain of Silo for the bribes he gavehim, that part of the army should be quar­tered at Lidda; in order to please Antony.So the Romans laid their weapons aside, andlived in plenty of all things. Herod, however, was not pleased withlying still; but sent out his brother Josephagainst Idumea, with two thousand armedfootmen, and four hundred horsemen; whilehimself came to Samaria, and left his motherand his other relations there; for they werealready gone out of Massada; and went intoGalilee, to take certain places which wereheld by the garrisons of Antigonus. And hepassed on to Sepphoris, as God sent a snowwhile Antigonus's garrisons withdrew them- Idumean: though he says his father Anti pater was of thesame people with the Jews, chap. 8. and hy birth a Jew,XX. 8. as indeed all such proselytes of justice, as the Idu-means, XIII. 9. were in time esteemed the very samepeople with the Jewst Deut. xvii. 15.