OCR Output 356 . THF. DF.CLINF. AND FALL chap. their conqueror; and, at the earnest persuasion ofxx" Equitius, their ambassadors were introduced into theImperial council. They approached the throne withbended bodies, and dejected countenances; and,without daring to complain of the murder of theirking, they affirmed, with solemn oaths, that the lateinvasion was the crime of some irregular robbers,which the public council of the nation condemnedand abhorred. The answer of the emperor left thembut little to hope from his clemency or compassion.He reviled, in the most intemperate language, theirbaseness, their ingratitude, their insolence. Hiseyes, his voice, his colour, his gestures, expressed theviolence of his ungoverned fury; and, while his wholeframe was agitated with convulsive passion, a largeblood-vessel suddenly burst in his body; and Valen-tinian fell speechless into the arms of his attendants.Their pious care immediately concealed his situationfrom the crowd: but, in a few minutes, the emperorand death, of the West expired in an agony of pain, retainingtlnian!en* ms senses till the last; and struggling, without suc-Nov>i776' cess' t0 declare n's intentions to the generals andministers, who surrounded the royal couch. Valen-tinian was about fifty-four years of age; and hewanted only one hundred days to accomplish thetwelve years of his reign *. The polygamy of Valentinian is seriously attested.But we may be assured, from the evidence of rea-tinianii! son, as well as history, that the two marriages ofValentinian, with Severa, and with Justina, weresuccessively contracted; and that he used the ancientpermission of divorce, which was still allowed by thelaws, though it was condemned by the church. Severawas the mother of Gratian, who seemed to unite The em­perorsGratianand Valen, • See, on the death of Valentinian, Ammianus (xxx. 6), Zosimus (l . iv. p.221), Victor (in Epitom.) Socrates (1 . iv. c. 31), and Jerom, (in Chron. p. 187,and torn. i. p. 26. ad Heliodor.)