OCR Output 258 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. command of a single man. The twelve tables affordxxxvnV a more decisive proof of the national spirit, sinceseverity of they were framed by the wisest of the senate, and!abierive accepted by the free voices of the people; yet theselaws, like the statutes of Draco*, are written in cha-.racters of bloodt. The decemvirs distributed withmuch liberality the slighter chastisements of flagella­tion and servitude; and nine crimes of a very dif­ferent complexion are adjudged worthy of death. 1. Any act of treason against the state, or of cor­respondence with the public enemy. The mode ofexecution was painful and ignominious; the head ofthe degenerate Roman was shrouded in a veil, hishands were tied behind his back, and, after he hadbeen scourged by the lictor, he was suspended in themidst of the forum on a cross, or inauspicious tree. 2. Nocturnal meetings in the city; whatever mightbe the pretence, of pleasure, or religion, or the pub­lic good. 3. The murder of a citizen; for whichthe common feelings of mankind demand the bloodof the murderer. Poison is still more odious thanthe sword or dagger; and we are surprised to dis­cover, in two flagitious events, how early suchsubtle wickedness had infected the simplicity of therepublic, and the chaste virtues of the Roman ma­trons $. The parricide who violated the duties ofnature and gratitude was cast into the river or thesea, inclosed in a sack; and a cock, a viper, a dog,and a monkey, were successively added as the mostsuitable companions. Italy produces no monkies; * The age of Draco (Olympiad xxxix. 1) is fixed by Sir John Marsham(Canon Chronicus, p. 593—596) and Corsini (Fasti Attici, tom. iii. p. G2). Forhis laws, see the writers on the government of Athens, Sigonius, Meursius,Potter, &c. + The viiith, de delictis, of the xii tables is delineated by Gravina (Opp. p.292, 293, with a commentary, p. 214—230). % Livy mentions two remarkable and flagitious acras, of 3000 persons accused,and of 190 noble matrons convicted, of the crime of poisoning (xl. 43. viii. 18).