OCR Output 362 THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. [Book IV. seemed to the regent necessary carefully to preserve theirnames, he was still more careful to prevent any real activityon their part. Sulla dealt even with the franchise itself inthe most contemptuous manner; he made no difficultyeither in conceding it to the new burgess-communities, orin bestowing it on Spaniards and Celts en masse; in fact,probably not without design, no steps were taken at allfor the adjustment of the burgess-roll, which neverthelessafter so violent revolutions stood in urgent need of a revi­sion, if the government was at all in earnest with the legalprivileges attaching to it. The legislative functions of thecomitia, however, were not directly restricted; there was noneed in fact for doing so, for in consequence of the betterBecured initiative of the senate the people could not readilyagainst the will of the government intermeddle with admi­nistration, finance, or criminal jurisdiction, and its legisla­tive co-operation was once more reduced in substance to theright of giving assent to alterations of the constitution. Of greater moment was the participation of the bur­gesses in the elections—a participation which, apparently,could not be dispensed with without disturbing more thanCo-optation Sulla's superficial restoration could or would disturb. Therestored in interferences of the movement party in the sacerdotal elec- TOilPrls8tly t'ons were set as^e' not onty tne Domitian law of 650,94.' which transferred the election of the supreme priesthoodsgenerally to the people (P. 204), but also the similar olderenactments as to the Pontifex Maximus and the Curio Maxi-mus (ii. 357) were cancelled by Sulla, and the colleges ofpriests received back the right of self-completion in its origi­nal absoluteness. In the case of elections to the magistra­cies the mode hitherto pursued was on the whole retained; ex­cept in so far as the new regulation of the military commandto be mentioned immediately certainly involved as its con­sequence a material restriction of the powers of the bur­gesses, and indeed in some measure transferred the right ofbestowing the appointment of generals from the burgessesto the senate. It does not even appear that Sulla now re­sumed the previously attempted restoration of the Servianvoting-arrangement (P. 267); whether it was that he re­garded the particular composition of the voting-divisions asaltogether a matter of indifference, or whether it was thatthat older arrangement seemed to him to augment the dan­gerous influence of the capitalists. Only the qualifications