OCR Output 324 ROMAN EMPIRE. Not a month, not an hour.—Excuse us at least from theobligation of prayer.— Without prayer religion is of noavail. They submitted in silence; their temples^ weredemolished, and the same sentence of destruction wasexecuted on all the idols of Arabia. His lieutenants, onthe shores of the Red sea, the ocean, and the gulf ofPersia, were saluted by the acclamations of a faithfulpeople; and the ambassadors who knelt before the throneof Medina, were as numerous (says the Arabian proverb)as the dates that fall from the maturity of a palm-tree.The nation submitted to the God and the sceptre of Ma­homet: the opprobrious name of tribute was abolished,the spontaneous or reluctant oblations of alms and titheswere applied to the service of religion; and one hundredand fourteen thousand Moslems accompanied the lastpilgrimage of the apostle/ When Heraclius returned in triumph from the Firstwar —. . . _ r of the Ma-Persian war, he entertained, at Emesa, one ofe ambassadors of Mahomet, who invited theprinces and nations of the earth to the professionA. D. 6«9, of Islam. On this foundation the zeal of the 630 Arabians has supposed the secret conversion ofthe Christian emperor: the vanity of the Greeks hasfeigned a personal visit to the prince of Medina, who ac­cepted from the royal bounty a rich domain, and a secureretreat in the province of Syria.*5 But the friendship ofHeraclius and Mahomet was of short continuance: thenew religion had inflamed rather than assuaged the ra­pacious spirit of the Saracens; and the murder of anenvoy afforded a decent pretence for invading, withthree thousand soldiers, the territory of Palestine, thatextends to the eastward of the Jordan. The holy bannerwas intrusted to Zeid; and such was the discipline or 'The last conquest and pilgrimage of Mahomet are contained in Abulfeda,(p. 121—133.; Gagnier, (torn. 3. p. 1j9—219.) Elmacin, (p. 10.11.) Abulphara-gius. (p. 103.) The ninth of the Hegira was styled the Year of Embassies. (Ga­gnier, Not. ad Abulfed. (p. 121.) * Compare the bigotted Al Jannabi (apud Gagnier, torn. 1. p. 232—255.) withthe no less bigoted Greeks, Theophanes, (p. 276—278.) Zonarac, (torn. t. lib. 14.p. 86.) and Cedrenus. (p. 421.)