OCR Output B. I. 19 INTRODUCTION. Corinth, make there a tender of the colony, representingthat " the leader of it had been at Corinth," and communi足cating the oracle ; and farther intreated them " not to lookon with eyes of unconcern till their destruction was com-pleated, but to undertake their redress." The Corinthiansgranted them their protection from a regard to justice, ima足gining themselves to be no less interested in this colony thanthe Corcyreans. But they were also actuated by a hatredof the Corcyreans, from whom, though a colony of theirown, they had received some contemptuous treatment: Forthey neither paid them the usual honour on their public so足lemnities, nor began with a Corinthian in the distribution ofthe sacrifices, which is always done by other colonies. Thistheir contempt was founded as well on the sufficiency oftheir own wealth, in which at that time they equalled therichest of the Greeks, as on the superiority of their militaryforce. Their insolence became greater, in time, with theenlargement of their navy, and they assumed glory to them足selves in a naval character as succeeding the Phaeacians inthe possession of Corcyra. This was their chief incentive tofurnish themselves with a naval strength, and in it they wereby no means inconsiderable : For they were masters of anhundred and twenty triremes, when they began this war.Upon all these reasons the resentments of the Corinthiansrising high against them, they undertook with pleasure therelief of Epidamnus ; encouraging all who were so disposed,to go and settle there, and sending thither a garrison of Am-braciots and Leucanians and their own people. Thesemarched by land to Apollonia, which is a colony of theCorinthians, from a dread of the Corcyreans, lest theyshould have hindered their passage had they attempted itby sea. As soon as the Corcyreans heard that the new inhabitantsand garrison were got to Epidamnus, and that the colonywas delivered into the hands of the Corinthians, they grewhot with indignation: and putting out immediately with