OCR Output 1052 SYBARIP. SYBARIS. district of Oman. The maps pre no bay to the W.of Syagros, where the Tret us Port us was situated.The Peri pi ox says that tlie cape extended outward,placet a castle with a hari»our and magazine atSyagros, and describes, in connection with it, theDiosooridui Insula (Soeotora), which Pliny placesat a distance of 2240 stadia. There its no difficulty in identifying this promon­tory Syagros with the modern has Fartask; winchderives its designation froin the snout of the animalcommemorated in its Greek name, which was pro­bably a loose translation of its native appellation*The Peri pi as describes Syagrua an the largest pro­montory in the world, — an hyperbolical expression,no doubt, but better suited to this cape than to anyother on the coast, since the isolated mountain thatforma Rat Fartask reaches an elevation of 2500 feet,and is visible at a distance of 60 miles; while thoseof HtU Samgra (al. SanLira), further to the E., some­time.-* identified with SyagRM on account of the Simi­larity of name, do not exceed 600 feet. The subject,it must be admitted, is not free from difficulty,mainly owing to the fact that Ptolemy places MoachaPort ns,—which is usually supposed to be the same asthe Moseha Port us of the Penplus, and is identifiedwith liztifar or Saphar,— W. of Syagros; in whichcase litis Xoos (al. Xous), or has SoHtgra (al. Siu-kirn), must be his Syagros, and the SaclmlitesSinus still further K. But since the distance be­tween Socatra anil the coast at has Fartask, about2000 stadia, approximates much more nearly toPliny's figures, 240 M.P.(= 2240stadia), than thatbetween the same i.-land and either of the othercaj*>>,—for has Xoos is 3600 stadia distant, and hasSawjra considerably more,—the most probable solu­tion of the difficulty is found in the hypothesisadop'cd above, of two ports called Moscha on thesame coast. [Moscha.] (See M tiller's Notes toDidot't td. of the Gtogr. Grate Min. vol. i. pp.279, 280.) The question has been examined byIV in Vincent, who was the first to fix correctly thisnn|»ortant |»>int in Arabian geography, and his mainconclusions are acquiesced in by Air. Furster, whohas corrobonited them by fresh evidence from theresearches of modern travellers; and it is an in-tereating fact, that while the Greek geographersappear to have translated the native name ot thecat*, which it retains to this day, the natives wonldappear to have adopted a modification of that Greektranslation as the name of the town situated, then as Inow, under the cape, which still bears the name ofSagger. (Vincent, Pertplus, vol. ii. pp. 331 —351;Pursier, Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 166 —177 ) [G. W.] SY'BAKIS (Ivfopu: Kth. Svduifrwf,Sybarite),a celebrated city of Magna Graecia, situated on theW . shore of the Tarentine gult, but a short distaucefrom the sea, between the rivers Crathil andSybaris. (Strab. ri. p. 263; Diod. xii. 9.) Thelast of these, from which it derived its name, wasthe stream now called the Coscile, which at thepresent dav falls into the Crati about 3 miles fromits mouth, but in ancient times undoubtedly pursuedan independent course to the sea. Syhuris wasapparently the earliest of all the Greek colonies inthis part of Italy, being founded, according to thestatement of Scymnns Chios, as early as B. c. 720.(Scymn. Ch. 360; Clinton, /*. //. vol. i. p. 174.)It was an Achaean colony, and its Oekist was acitizen of Helice in Achaia: but with the Achaeanemigrants were mingled a number of Troezeniancitizens. The Achaean*, however, eventually ob­ tained the preponderance, and drt-ve r-«t tlw Trazeniaiis. (Strab. L c; Anst. J'uL v. 1)Sybarites indeed appear to have sought f-xidoijin heroic times; and Solinus baa a son tan tfirst founder of the city was a mo of Aju<(Sotin. 2. § 10); but this is evidently tand the city was, historically tjeikinr. ■an Achaean colony. It roe rapfcily to pea |sperity, owing in the first instance to the fertility 4the plain in which it was situated. It* citizencontrary to the policy of many of the Greek 1lively admitted settlers of other rations u tbenriof citizenship, and the vast population of tie 1is expressly ascribed in great measure to tlua a(Diod, xii. 9.) The statement* transmittal iof the ]tower and opulence of the city, a» »eii ■ <the luxurious habits of its inhabitant hatt aSia very fabulous aspect, and are without duotspelexaggerated, but there is no reason to reject tmain tact that Sybaris had in the sixth omiarjaattained a degree of wealth and piw r unpuaaaiamong Greek cities, and which excited tlx adaaatof the rest of the Hellenic world. We ait tafcltlthe Sybarites ruled over 25 subject cine*, sad mbring into the field 300,000 of tiwir owi celi(Strab. /. c), a statement obviously uitmLbtf.subject cities were probably for the Mai part <trian towns in the interior, but we know tail 3had extended its dominion, across the perusedTyrrhenian sea, where it had founded tiw tof Posidonia, La us, and Scidrus. The art ifeiw as said to be not less than 50 stadia a Ifcrence, and the horsemen or knights "hofi^ueilthe religious processions are said to bare aweto 5000 in number (Athen. xii. p. 519X 1would prove that these wealthy citiiens «withan four times as numerous as at Atbeas- Idyrides, a citizen of Sybaris, wb-> was «« disuitors for the daughters of Cleisthene* <t!said by Herodotus to have surpassed all ether Iin retined luxury. (Herod, ri. 127.) h ^|asserted that on this occasion be earned eaaaa train of 1000 slaves, including cvuLa, fakes&c (Athen. vL p. 273; I>tod. *ih. Fr. 11)unnecessary to repeat here the tales tliai an ajvariods writers, especially by A • »• -. i«aaithe absurd refinement* of luxury ascribed tsleibarites, and which have rendered their wryproverbial. (Athcnae. xii. pp. 51b—521; '■viiL Fr. 18 — 20; Suid. s, r. ii*They were particularly noted fur the 1their attire, which was formed of tl« finesi >£■wool, ajid this gave rite to extrn&ivt DffidMrelations with Miletus, which prudared a 1friendship between Uie two cities, (TiBMaiAthen. xii. p. 519; Herod, vi. 21.) AiaaaWof their magnificence we are told that Al*of Sybaris had dedicated as a votive p.bVij£ ■temple of the Lacinian Juno a splendid £^uH'which long afterwards fell into the y »er a Tsins of Syracuse, and was sold by hue ac 1talents, or more than 24.000/. eterhnf. i,f*a»a||Arist. iftrofr. 96; Atben. xii. p. 541.) Notwit)i.<it:inding these detailswealth and luxury of Sybaris, we are 1without information as to the history ef 1until shortly before its fall. Herodotus onrefers to the time of Smindyride* (afcouA 5SB. c.) as the period when Sybaria *a at OSof its power. At a later period it seeaebeen agitated by political