OCR Output B. III. YEAR V.«--BEFORE CHRIST 427. 269 had lodged without ; and, having ordered the ships whichthey had manned to come about into the Hyllaic harbour,whilst they were going about in pursuance of this order,they put all the adverse faction whom they found to thesword. Those further, who had took on in the ships at theirpersuasion, they threw into the sea and then retired. Theyafterwards went to Juno's temple, and persuaded a party ofsuppliants there, to the amount of fifty, to undergo a judicialtrial, in which they were all condemned to die. The majo­rity of suppliants, who refused to hear such persuasion, nosooner saw the fate of their brethren, than they either slewone another within the temple, or hung themselves up uponthe trees within its verge; each finding some expedient forhis own dispatch. During those seven days that Euryme-don with his reinforcement continued at Corcyra, the peo­ple of that city extended the massacre to all whom theyjudged their enemies. The crime oh which they justifiedtheir proceedings, was their attempt to overturn the demo­cracy. Some perished merely through private enmity; some forthe sums they had lent, by the hands of the borrowers.Every kind of death was here exhibited. Every dreadfulact usual in a sedition, and more than usual, was perpetratednow. For fathers slew their children; some Were draggedfrom altars; and some were butchered at them. And anumber of persons immured in the temple of Bacchus werestarved to death. So cruel was the progress of this sedition,and so excessively cruel did it appear, because the first of soblack a nature that ever happened. But afterwards the con­tagion spread, one may say, through the whole extent ofGreece, when factions raged in every city, the popular de­magogues contending for the Athenians, the aspiring fenfor the Lacedaemonians. In peace, it is true, they werevoid of all pretext, of all opportunity to invite these rivals.But now, amidst declared hostilities, and the quest of al­liance to afflict their enemies and add an increase of strength Vol. I. 3 B