OCR Output 152 AFFAIRS AT ROME. [B. IV. before the city, and fell into the city, together with the rest,and gave leave to his soldiers to plunder it. And here it wasthat many strangers who were merchants, as well as manyof the people of that country, perished, and among them Vi-tellius's whole army, being thirty thousand and two hundred,while Antonius lost no more of those that came with him fromMysia than four thousand and five hundred : he then loosedCccinna, and sent him to Vespasian, to tell him the good news.So he came, and was received by him, and covered the scandalof his treachery by the unexpected honors he received fromVespasian. 4. And now, upon the news that Antonius was approaching,Sabinus took courage at Rome, and assembled those cohortsof soldiers that kept wateh by night, and in the night-timeseized upon the Capitol; and as the day came on, many menof character came over to him, with Domitian his brother'sson, whose encouragement was of very great weight for thecompassing the government. Now Vitcllius was not muchconcerned at this Primus, but was very angry at those thathad revolted with Sabinus; and thirsting, out of his ownnatural barbarity, after noble blood, he sent out that part ofthe army which came along with him to fight against theCapitol; and many bold actions were done on this side, andon the side of those that held the temple. But at last the sol­diers that came from Germany, being too numerous for theothers, got the hill into their possession, where Domitian, withmany other of the principal Romans, providentially escaped,while the rest of the multitude were entirely cut to pieces,and Sabinus himself was brought to Vitcllius, and then slain ;the soldiers also plundered the temple of its ornaments, andset it on fire. But now, within a day's time, came Antonius,with his army, and were met by Vitcllius and his army, andhaving had a battle in three several places, the last were alldestroyed. Then did Vitcllius come out of the palace in h.1scups, and satiated with an extravagant and luxurious meal, asin the last extremity; and being drawn along through themultitude, and abused with all sorts of torments, had his headcut off in the midst of Rome, having retained the government