OCR Output 1202 VI-11. vat probably comprehended the Vatican and Janicnlanhills, and became the seat of the 5th I: . nan tribe,the Komilia or Romulia. (Varr. L. L. v. 9. § 65,filiill.; Paul. ap. Fest. s. v. Romitlia Trib.) This peace seems to have lasted about GO or 70years, when war again broke out between the Veientines and Romans in the reign of Tuilus Hostilius,and this time also on account of Fidenae, which ap­pears to have become a Roman colony after its cap­ture by Romulus. The cause of the war was thetreacherous conduct of the i'idenates during theRoman struggle with Alba. When called to account,they refused to give any explanation of their conduct,and procured the assistance of the Veientines. Tuiluscrossed the AlUO (7Wwom) with a large army, andthe battle which took place at a spot between thatriver and the town of Fidenae was the most obstinateHiid bloody which had yet been recorded in the Romanannals. Tuilus, however, gained a signal victoryover the Fidenates and their allies the Veientines.The battle is remarkable for the vows made by Tui­lus, of twelve Salian priests, and of temples to Pavorand Pallor. These were the second set of Salians,or those attached to the worship of Quiiinus [cf.Roma, p. 8*29]; and the appropriateness of the vowwill be perceived when we Consider that the Fidenates,in their answer to the Romans, had asserted that alltheir engagements towards I tome had expired on thedeath of that deified hero. (Liv. i. 27; Dionvs. US,23,.sqq.) The war was renewed under Ancus Mareius byforays on both sides, which, however, seem to havebeen begun by the Veientines. Ancus overthrewthem in two pitched battles, the last of which wasdecisive. The Veientines were obliged to surrenderall the tract on the right bank of the Tiber calledthe Silva Maesia. The Roman dominion was nowextended as far as the sea; and in order to securethese conquests, Ancus founded the colony of Ustiaat the mouth of the Tiber. (Liv. i. 33; Dionvs.lii. 41.) The next time that we find the Veientines in col­lision with Home, they had to contend with a leaderof their own nation. L. Tarquinius, an emigrantfrom Tarquinii to Rome, had distinguished himselfin the wars of Ancus Mareius against Veil, and wasnow in possession of the Roman sovereignty. TheVeientines, however, on this occasion did not standalone, but were assisted by the other Etruscan cities,who com plained of insults and injuries received fromTaiquin. The Veientines, ns usual, were discomfited,and so thoroughly, that they did not dare to leavetheir city, but were the helpless spectators of thedevastation committed on their lands by the Romans.The war was terminated by Tarquin's brilliant vic­tory at Kretus, which enabled him to claim thesovereignty of all Ktruria, leaving, however, the differ­ent cities in the enjoyment of their own rights andprivileges. It was on this occasion that Tarquin issaid to have introduced at Rome the institution ofthe twelve lie tors and their fasces, emblems of theservitude of the twelve Etruscan cities, as wellas the other Ktruscan iusignia of royalty. (Dionys.iii. 57: Flor. i. 5.) It should be observed that onthis subject the accounts are very various ; and somehave even doubted the whole story of this Etruscanconquest, because Livy does not mention it. Thathistorian, however, when he speaks of the resumptionof the war under Servian Tullius, includes the otherEtruscans with the Veientines, as parties to the trucewhich had expired (•• bellum cum Veientibus (jam enim indntiae exierant) aUUq*e 1i. 42), although the Etruscans had not iCorned in the last Veientine war be tal I(Cf. Dionys. iv. 27.) This war under Serin Tatawas the last waged with the VeieotiQfi 4snf airegal period of Rome. When the second Tarqnin was expelled for La*the Etruscans endeavoured to restart him. Vwes"Tarquinii were the two most fbrnH aaei airleague formed for this purpose. Tee ant askwhich took place near the Silvia Ann, «fi had?but indecisive, though the Romans cUised asanasvictory. Rut the Etruscans having bbumei t»assistance of Porsena, Lars of Clasom, tat sassswere completely worsted, and, at tbe pewensued, were compelled to restore to the Vaanaaall the territory which had been wresled fro taaby Romulus and Ancus Mareius. Tha, nmss;Porsena shortly afterwards restored to the sassa,out of gratitude for the hospitality whici ta* sa1displayed towards the remnant of the Etrtscsf inrafter the defeat of hi- son A rone at Arias, (bit6—15; Dionys. v. 14, sqq.; Pint PwiL II) The Veientines could Ul brock being drpneJe* ithis territory; but, whilst the influence of Pcneuss1his family prevailed in the Etruscan Leag*c,taw»mained quiet. After his death the wsraraiasnaesS.B. c. 483. For a year or two it was a kiniefsssvlwarfare characterised by mutual depred*i*m lasB.C. 481, after a general congress *f the Etrwasugreat number of volunteers joined the Voeanmaamatters began to assume a more serines sepal. ■the first encounters the Romans were awaooeafti 1chiefly through a mutiny of the soldiers. TUyssato have been disheartened by then' ill sacem; nararmy was inferior in number to thai of the Yeassssvand they endeavoured to decline an eneagecesL I*the insults of the enemy incensed the ffiocaaa asnwvto such a degree that they insisted en brie? W *battle. The contest was long and Hasty, tsiEtruscans at one time were in ptaaeaiion of tatsVman camp; but it was recovered by the *»ar *"Titus Siccius. The Romans lostofficers, amongst whom were the coasolQ. Eabius, who had been twice rossal,with many tribunes and centurions. It 1drawn battle; yet the Romans claimed tht Ibecause during the night tbe Etruscans i"their camp, which was sacked by tbe liefollowing day. But the surviving oonssVibulanus, on his return to Rune, lefueecand abdicated his office, the dalies of«prevented from discharging by the severity ef aswounds. (Dionvs. ix. 5, sqq.: Liv. u. 4S—*'•)Shortly after this, the Veienlinss, findinrtaatdwere unable to cope with tbe Kenans sa tar ■held, adopted a most annoTing system af iWhen the Roman army appeared, they anal Iselves up within their walls; but nothe legions retired, than they can* forte §M»the country np to the very gates of PFabian family, which had given a> 1Rome, and which had taken sojthe late war, now came forhers the commonwealth from this 1ance. The whole family appeared kand by the mouth of their chief, Cease Fsiconsul for the third time, d«ki*i, thai, as aitinnal rather than a large gtuni wm re^c^the Veientine war. they were willing t*'the duty and to maintain the majaitr «f tfce 1