OCR Output 54 VESPASIAN. [B. III. 8. Thus Josephus escaped in the war with the Romans andin this his own war with his friends, and was led by Nicanorto Vespasian. But now all the Romans ran together to seehim; and as the multitude pressed one upon another abouttheir general, there was a tumult of a various kind; whilesome rejoiced that Josephus was taken, and some threatenedhim, and some crowded to see him very near; but those thatwere more remote cried out to have this their enemy put todeath, while those that were near called to mind the actionshe had done, and a deep concern appeared at the change ofhis fortune. Nor was there any of the Roman commanders,how much soever they had been enraged at him before, butrelented when he came to the sight of him. Above all therest, Titus's own valor, and Josephus's own patience underhis afflictions, made him pity him, as did also the commisera足tion of his age, when he recalled to mind that but a littlewhile ago he was fighting, but lay now in the hands of hisenemies, which made him consider the power of fortune, andhow quick is the turn of affairs in war, and how no state ofmen is sure: for which reason he then made a great manymore to be of the same pitiful temper with himself, andinduced them to commiserate Josephus. He was also ofgreat weight in persuading his father to preserve him. How足ever, Vespasian gave strict orders that he should be keptwith great caution, as though he would, in a very little time,send him to Nero. 9. When Josephus heard him give these orders, he saidthat he had somewhat in his mind that he would willingly sayto himself alone. When, therefore, they were all ordered towithdraw, excepting Titus and two of their friends, he said:" Thou, O Vespasian, thinkest no more than that thou hasttaken Josephus himself captive; but I am come to thee as amessenger of greater tidings; for had not I been sent byGod to thee, I knew what was the law1 of the Jews in this 1 I do not know where to find the law of Moses here mentioned by Jose足phus, and aftorward by Elcazar, B. vii. ch. viii. sect. 7; and almost impliedin B. i. ch. xiii. sect. 10, by Josephus's commendation of Phasaelus for doingbo; I mean whereby Jewish generals and people were obliged to kill them足