OCR Output 296 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book I. 4. In the mean time Antony abode at Athens, while ,•dius called for Silo andHerod to come to the war against the Par-thians, but ordered them first to settle the affairs of Judea: soHerod willingly dismissed Silo to go to Ventidius, but he madean expedition himself against those that lay in the caves. Nowthese caves were in the precipices of craggy mountains, andcould not be come at from any side, since they had only somewinding path-ways, very narrow, by which they got up tothem; but the rock that lay on their front had beneath it val­leys of a vast depth, and of an almost perpendicular declivity;insomuch that the king was doubtful for a long time what todo, by reason of a kind of impossibility there was of attackingthe place. Yet did he at length make use of a contrivance thatwas subject to the utmost hazard; for he let down the mosthardy of his men in chests, and set them at the mouths of thedens. Now these men slew the robbers and their families, andwhen they made resistance, they sent in fire upon them, [andburnt them] ; and as Herod was desirous of saving some of them,he had proclamation made, that they should come and deliverthemselves up to him; but not one of them came willingly tohim, and of those that were compelled to come, many preferreddeath to captivity. And here a certain old man, the father ofseven children, whose children, together with their mother, de­sired him to give them leave to go out, upon the assurance andright hand that was offered them, slew them after the followingmanner: He ordered every one of them to go out, while hestood himself at the cave's mouth, and slew that son of his per­petually who went out. Herod was near enough to see thissight, and his bowels of compassion were moved at it, and hestretched out his right hand to the old man, and besought himto spare his children; yet did not he relent at all upon what hesaid, but over and above reproached Herod on the lowness ofhis descent, and slew his wife as well as his children; and whenbe had thrown their dead bodies down the precipice, he at lastthrew himself down after them. 5. By this means Herod .subdued these caves, and the robbersthat were in them. He then left there a part of his army, asmany as he thought sufficient to prevent any sedition, and madePtolemy their general,and returned to Samaria: heled also with himthree thousand armed footmen, and six hundred horsemen againstAntigonua» Now here those that used' to raise tumults in Ga­lilee, having liberty so. to do upon his departure, fell unexpected­ly upon Ptolemy, the general of his forces, and slew him: theyalso laid the country waste, and then retired to the bogs, and toplaces not easily to be found. But when Herod was informed ofthis insurrection, he came to the assistance of the country imme­ diately