OCR Output HO [Book IV THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. Occupationof Cilicia. province of Cilicia, which thenceforth appears among theRoman provinces.* The design was commendable, and thescheme in itself was well devised; but the continuanceand the increase of the evil of piracy in the Asiatic waters,and especially in Cilicia, unhappily showed the inadequacy ofthe means with which the pirates were assailed from the newlyacquired position. But nowhere did the impotence and perversity of theRoman provincial administration come to light in so nakedcolours as in the insurrections of the provincial proleta­riate, which seemed to have revived on their former footingsimultaneously with the restoration of the aristocracy. Theseinsurrections of the slaves swelling from revolts into wars—which had emerged just about 620 as one, and that perhaps theproximate, cause of the Gracchan revolution—were renewedand repeated with dreary Uniformity. Again, as thirty yearsbefore, a ferment pervaded the body of slaves throughoutthe Roman empire. We have already mentioned the Italianconspiracies. The miners in the Attic silver-mines rose inrevolt, occupied the promontory of Sunium, and issuingthence pillaged for a length of time the surrounding country.The second Similar movements appeared at other places. But the chiefSicilian seat of these fearful commotions was once more Sicily withits plantations and its hordes of slaves brought thither from Revolts ofthe slaves. 134. slave-war. * It iy assumed in many quarters that the establishment of the province of78. Cilicia only took place after the Cilician expedition of Publius Servilius in 67692. et spq., but erroneously; for as early as 662 we find Si'lla (Appian, Mithr.80. 79. 57; B.C. i. 77; Victor, 75), and in 674, 675, Gnaeus Dolabella (Cic. Verr.i. 1, 16, 44) as governors of Cilicia—whicli leaves no alternative but to place102. the establishment of the province in 652. This view is further supported bythe fact, that at this time the expeditions of the Romans against the corsairs—e. g. the Balearic, Ligurian, and Dalmatia expeditions—appear to have beenordinarily directed to the occupation of the points of the coast whence piracyissued; and this was natural, for, as the Romans had no standing fleet, the onlymeans of effectually checking piracy was the occupation of the coasts. It isto be remembered, moreover, that the idea of a provincia did not absolutelyinvolve possession of the country, but in itself implied no more than an inde­pendent military command; it is very possible, that the Romans in the firstinstance occupied nothing in this rugged country save stations for their vesselsand troops. The plain of eastern Cilicia remained down to the war against Tigranesattached to the Syrian empire (Appian, Syr. 48); the districts to the north ofthe Taurus formerly reckoned as belonging to Cilicia—Coppadocian Cilicia, asit was called, and Cataonia—belonged to Cappadocia, the former from the timeof the breaking up of the kingdom of Attalus (Justin, xxxvii. 1 ; see above,P. 57), the latter probably even from the time of the peace with Autiochus. X