OCR Output NAUPLIA. NAUPOKTUa 403 7W Hckwi War, n. c 455; and daring the |i'ipBniji Wir it wu the head-quarters of theA'.Yoim in >II their operations in Western Greece.(tm.ii. !l §7; Thnc. i. 103, ii. 83, seq.)A*nr tb« battle of Aegospotami the Messenians wereojeW from Nupactus, and the Locrians regained?~im of lie lawn. (Pans. x. 38. § 10.) Itterms pueed into the hands of the Achaeans,ffn whan, borerer, it was wrested by Epami-aata. (Hod. it. 75.) Philip gave it to theMn (Scab. ix. p. 427; Dem. PhU. iii. p. 120),ol sate it is frequently called a town of Aetolia.[vHu. a 14; Mela, ii. 3; I'lin. iv. 2. s. 3.) Theli-.lvt Tinnmily defended Naupactus against thefa t»o months in b. c. 191. (Liv. xxxvi.Hm.; htjtxj. 103.) Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 3)« »town of tbe Locri Oxolae, to whom it mustWn hire been assigned by the Romans afterft." i time, roasti m* it Naupactus a temple of Poseidon * th<«». t temple of Artemis, a cave sacred tofcenttt. ud the rains of a temple of Asclcpins *• {j 12, 13). Nanpactos is mentioned byE»" la (p. 643); bat it was destroyed by an earth-c tie reign of Justinian. (Procop. B. Goth. * C) lie litoation and present appearance offc'jram tins described by Leake:-" The for-»ai aid im occupy the sooth-eastern and southern**> 4 • «JL which is one of the roots of Mount•V". «si reaches down to the sea. The place it a the manner which waa common among■revival in positions similar to that of E'palcta,»to ay, it occupies a triangular slope with>iaU at the apex, and one or more cross walls on""?e. amdiag it into subordinate enclosures. * •' there are no less than five enclosuresand the sea, with gates of com- from tbe one to the other, and a side gate'■a* •«£ leading out of the fortress from theore on the descent. It is not improbable, wdara walls follow exactly the ancient plan'ensa, for in many parts they stand uponi uiaiions, and eren retain large pieces ofnidat the modern work. Theonly the lowest enclosure; in•f which is tbe small harbour which made> Srere in ancient history: it is now chokedis incapable of receiving even the■wt of boats which navigate the gulf.", "» Grme, vol. ii. p. 608.)JWTUA (NavwAla), a rock above Delphi.* 7«. a.] ■afrlU NmXia: EtA. NawXin!j). the^Ara. *m litoatrd upon a rocky peninsula,■ita the mainland by a narrow isthmus.•* "wr saciait place, and is said to have de-P*"a»» from Naupiius, the son of Poseidonraw*, sad the fattier of Palamedes, thoughfarjaUy owed its name, as Strabo has ob-t» hi harbour (fao rov reus yawl rpo-Soafc. vBL p. 368; Pans. ii. 38. § 2.)iKsi u> that tbe Nftuplians were Egypt-to the colony which Danaus brought3i § 2); and from the position of their7** s prauHfittaT running out into the sea,a ^sk 6ffrmrt from the site of the earlier■ ttam, it a not improbable that it was* > ■Olement made by strangers from the•araaa waa at first independent of Argos,1 tejier of the maritime confederacy whichkt aaauap a> the ialand of CaXanreia. (Strab. viii. p. 374.) About the time of the Second Mes -senian War, it was conquered by the Argives; andtbe Lacedaemonians gave to its expelled citizens thetown of Methone in Messenia, where they continuedto reside even after the restoration of the Messenianstate by Epaminondas. (Pans. iv. 24. § 4, iv. 27.§ 8, iv. 35. § 2.) Argos now took the piace ofNauplia in the Calaureian confederacy; and from thistime Nauplia appears in history only as the seaportof Argos (o tiavwKios \turiv, Eurip. Orat. 767;AijitVei NaiVirAioi, EUctr. 451). As such it ismentioned by Strabo (i c), but in the time of Pau-sanias the place was deserted. Pausanias noticedthe ruins of the walls of a temple of Poseidon, certainforts, and a fountain named Canathus, by washingin which Hera was said to have renewed her vir­ginity every year. (Pans. ii. 38. § 2.) In the middle ages Nauplia was called to Nati-irXiof, to 'AyAir\ioy, or ra 'ArawAia, but has nowresumed its ancient name. It became a place ofconsiderable importance in the middle ages, and hascontinued so down to the present day. In the timeof the Crusades it first emerges from obscurity. In1205 it was taken by the Franks, and became thecapital of a small duchy, which commanded the plainof Argos. Towards the end of the 14th century itcame into the hands of the Venetians, who regardedit as one of their most important places in the Le­vant, and who successfully defended it both againstMahomet II. and Soliman. They ceded it to theTurks in 1540, but wrested it from them again in1686, when they constructed the strong fortificationson bit. PalamidhL This fortress, although, reckonedimpregnable, was stormed by the Turks in 1715, inwhose hands it remained till the outbreak of thewar of Grecian independence. It then became theseat of the Greek government, and continued such,till the king of Greece removed bis residence toAthens in 1834. The modem town Is described by a recent ob­server as having more the air of a real town thanany place now existing in Greece under that title;having continuous lines of houses and streets, andoffering, upon the whole, much tbe appearance of asecond-rate Italian seaport. It is built on thepeninsula; and some remains of the Hellenic fortifi­cations may be seen in the site of the walls of FortIttkali, which is the lower citadel of the town, andoccupies the site of the ancient Acropolis. Theupper citadel, called Palamidki (tlaAapTjoW). issituated upon a steep and lofty mountain, and is oneof the strongest fortresses In Europe. Although itsname is not mentioned by any ancient writer, therecan be little doubt, from the connection of Palamedeswith the ancient town, that this was the appellationof the hill in ancient times. (Leake, Mono, vol. itp. 356, Pdopoimuiaca, p. 252; Mure, Tour inGrace, vol. ii. p. 187; Boblaye, Rechercha, d/c.p. 50; Curtius. Pelopomtaos, vol. ii. p. 389.) NAUPOBTUS (Naifiroproi). 1. (Laybach), asmall but navigable river in tbe south-west ofPannonia, flowing by the town of Nauportus, andemptying itself into the Savns a little below Ae-mona. (Strab. iv. p. 207, comp vii. p. 314, wheresome read Nowtoktos; Plin. iii. 23.) 2. A town in tbe south-west of Pannonia, on thesmall river of the same name, was an ancient andonce flourishing commercial town of the Taurisci,which carried on considerable commerce with Aqui-leia. (Strab. vii. p. 314; Tac Arm. i. 10; Pliniii. 22; Veil. Paterc il 110.) But after the D D 2