OCR Output 40 [Book IV. THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. Macedoniaand thePseudo-Philip. dians retained what they possessed. But the careful regu­lation of the boundary between the Roman province andthe Numidian kingdom, which enclosed it on three sides,showed that Home would by no means tolerate in referenceto herself what she had permitted in reference to Carthage;while the name of the new province, Africa, on the otherhand appeared to indicate that Rome did not at all regardthe boundary now marked off as a definitive one. Thesupreme administration of the new province was intrustedto a Roman governor, whose seat was Utica. Its frontierdid not need any regular defence, as the allied Numidiankingdom everywhere separated it from the inhabitants ofthe desert. In the matter of taxes Rome dealt on the wholewith moderation. Those communities which from the be­ginning of the war had taken part with Rome—viz., onlythe maritime towns of Utica, Hadrumetum, Little Leptis,Thapsus, Achulla, and Usalis, and the inland town ofTheudalis—retained their territory and became free cities;which was also the case with the newly founded communityof deserters. The territory of the city of Carthage withthe exception of a tract presented to Utica, and that ofthe other destroyed townships, became Roman domainland,which was let on lease. The remaining townships likewiseforfeited in law their property in the soil and their muni­cipal liberties ; but their land and their constitution were leftto them on sufferance for the time being and until furtherorders from the Roman government, and the communities Eaid annually to Eome for the use of their soil whichad become Roman a definitely fixed tribute (stipendium),which they in their turn raised by means of a property-tax levied from the individuals liable. The real gainers,however, by this destruction of the first commercial city ofthe west were the Roman merchants, who, as soon as Car­thage lay in ashes, flocked in troops to Utica, and from thatas their head-quarters began to turn to profitable accountnot only the Boman province, but also the Numidian andGaetulian regions which had hitherto been closed to them. Macedonia also disappeared about the same time asCarthage from the ranks of the nations. The four smallconfederacies, into which the wisdom of the Roman senatehad parcelled out the ancient kingdom, could not live atpeace either internally or one with another. The state ofmatters in the country appears from a single accidentally