OCR Output ■* THE DECLINE AND FALL men had not represented the perils of the shore, and the signs of an impendingtempest. Still ignorant of the revolution, they declined, however, the rash at­tempt of forcing the chain of the port; and the adjacent harbour and suburb ofMandracium were insulted only by the rapine of a private officer who disobeyedand deserted his leaders. But the imperial fleet, advancing with a fair wind,steered through the narrow entrance of the Goletta, and occupied, in the deepand oapacious lake of Tunis, a secure station about five miles from the capital. (1)No sooner was Belisarius informed of their arrival, than he despatched ordersthat the greatest part of the mariners should be immediately landed to join thetriumph, and to swell the apparent numbers of the Romans. Before he allowedthem to enter the gates of Carthage, he exhorted them, in a discourse worthy ofhimself and the occasion, not to disgrace the glory of their arms; and to remem­ber that the Vandals had been the tyrants, but that they were the deliverers of theAfricans, who must now be respected as the voluntary and affectionate subjects oftheir common sovereign. The Romans marched through the streets iii closeranks, prepared for battle if an enemy had appeared; the strict order maintainedby the general, imprinted on their minds the duty of obedience; and in an age inwhich custom and impunity almost sanctified the abuse of conquest, the genius ofone man repressed the passions of a victorious army. The voice of menace andcomplaint was silent; the trade of Carthage was not interrupted; while Africachanged her master and her government, the shops continued open and busy; andthe soldiers after sufficient guards had been posted, modestly departed to thehouses which were allotted for their reception. Belisarius fixed his residence inthe palace; seated himself on the throne of Genseric; accepted and distributedthe barbaric spoil; granted their lives to the suppliant Vandals; and laboured to re­pair the damage which the suburb of Mandracium had sustained in the precedingnight At supper he entertained his principal officers with the form and magnifi­cence of a royal banquet. (2) The victor was respectfully served by the captiveofficers of the household; and, in the moments of festivity, when the impartialspectators applauded the fortune and merit of Belisarius, his envious flattererssecretly shed their venom on every word and gesture which might alarm the sus­picions of a jealous monarch. One day was given to these pompous scenes, which,may not be despised as useless, if they attracted the popular veneration; but theactive mind of Belisarius, which in the pride of victory could suppose a defeat,had already resolved that the Roman empire in Africa should not depend on thechance of arms, or the favour of the people. The fortifications of Carthage hadalone been exempted from the general proscription; but in the reign of ninety-five•years they were suffered to decay by the thoughtless and indolent Vandals. A wiserconqueror restored with incredible despatch the walls and ditches of the city.His liberality encouraged the workmen; the soldiers, the mariners, and the citi­zens, vied with each other in the salutary labour; and Gelimer, who had feared totrust his person in an open town, beheld with astonishment and despair the risingstrength of an impregnable fortress. That unfortunate monarch, after the loss of his capital, applied himself to col­lect the remains of an army scattered, rather than destroyed, by the precedingbattle; and the hopes of pillage attracted some Moorish bands to the standard ofGelimer. He encamped in the fields of Bulla, four days'journey from Carthage jinsulted the capital, which he deprived of the use of an aqueduct; proposed a highreward for the head of every Roman; affected to spare the persons and propertyof his African subjects, and secretly negotiated with the Anan sectaries and theconfederate Huns, Under these circumstances, the conquest of Sardinia servedonly to aggravate his distress; he reflected with the deepest anguish, that he hadwasted, in that useless enterprise, five thousand of his bravest troops; and he read,with grief and shame, the victorious letters of his brother Zano, who expressed asanguine confidence that the king, after the example of their ancestors, had alrea­dy chastised the rashness of the Roman invader. "Alas! my brother," repliedGelimer, " Heaven has declared against our unhappy nation. While you have (t) The neighbourhood of Carthage, the sea, the land, and (he rivers, are changed almost at much as theworks of man. The isthmus, or neck of the city, is now confounded with the continent; the harbour is a dry Slain; and the lake, or stagnum, no more than a morass, with six or seven feet water in the mid channel. See'Anville (Geographic Ancienne, torn. iii. p. 82.,) (Shaw's Travels, p. 77—84.) Marmol (Description dePAfrique, torn, ii. p. 465.,) and Thuanust (58. 12. tom.iti. p. 334.) (2) From Delphi, the name of Delphieum was given, both in Greek and Latin, to a tripod; and, by aneasy analogy, the same appellation was extended at Rome, Constantinople, and Carthage, to the royal ban-quetting room. (Procopias, Vandal, lib. i. c. 21. Ducange, Gloss. Gnec. p. 277. AtKfnm, ad Alexiad, p. 412.)