OCR Output 18 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. it into the Lacedaemonians made the contest necessary. Butthe pretences,, publicly alleged on either side for breaking thetruce and declaring open war, shall now be related. EPIDAMNUS is a city on the right hand as you sail intothe Ionian gulf: Adjoining to it live the Barbarian Tau-lantii, a people of Illyria. The Corcyreans settled a colonyhere, the leader of which was Phalius the son of Herato-clidcs, a Corinthian by birth, of the lineage of Hercules,invited to the office out of the mother-city, according to thecustom of ancient times : and besides this, some Corinthiansand others of Doric descent joined themselves to this colony.In process of time, the city of the Epidamnians becamegreat and populous. Yet, having been afterwards harassedwith seditions of many years continuance, they were broughtvery low (according to report) by a war waged against themby the neighbouring Barbarians, and were deprived of thegreatest share of their power. But the most recent event atEpidamnus before the present war was, that the people therehad driven the nobles out of the city. These sheltering them­selves amongst the Barbarians, began depredations on thosewho remained behind, both by land and sea. The Epidam­nians of the place, suffering vastly from these depredations,dispatched ambassadors to Corcyra as their mother-city, be­seeching them, " Not to behold their destruction with eyesunconcerned, biit to reconcile their exiles to them, and todeliver them from this Barbarian war." The ambassadors,sitting down submissively in the temple of Juno, offered thesesupplications. ' But the Corcyreans, refusing to receive them,sent them home again without effect. The Epidamnians, thusconvinced that no redress could be had from Corcyra, andignorant how to proceed in their present perplexities, sentto Delphos to enquire of the God, " Whether they shouldsurrender their city to the Corinthians as their founders, andshould seek security from their protection ?" He answered,that " they should surrender and take them for their leaders."The Epidamnians, in pursuance of this oracle, arriving at