OCR Output CHAP. XLV.] OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 3Q5 night, his domestics were awakened by an importunatecrowd, who thundered at his door, and obtained admit­tance by revealing themselves to be the principal mem­bers of the senate. These welcome deputies announcedthe recent and momentous secret of the emperor's de­cease: reported, or perhaps invented, his dying choiceof the best beloved and the most deserving of his ne­phews, and conjured Justin to prevent the disorders ofthe multitude, if they should perceive, with the returnof light, that they were left without a master. Aftercomposing his countenance to surprise, sorrow, and de­cent modesty, Justin, by the advice of his wife Sophia,submitted to the authority of the senate. He was conduct­ed with speed and silence to the palace; the guards sa­luted their new sovereign, and the martial and religiousrites of his coronation were diligently accomplished. Bythe hands of the proper officers he was invested with theimperial garments, the red buskins, white tunic, and pur­ple robe. A fortunate soldier, whom he instantly pro­moted to the rank of tribune, encircled his neck with amilitary collar: four robust youths exalted him on ashield; he stood firm and erect to receive the adorationof his subjects; and their choice was sanctioned by thebenediction of the patriarch, who imposed the diadem on Reign ofthe head of an orthodox prince. The hippodrome was or the"already filled with innumerable multitudes; and no ^"d^'ssooner did the emperor appear on his throne, than the 1S-'voices of the blue and the green factions were confound- December,ed in the same loyal acclamations. In the speecheswhich Justin addressed to the senate and people, he pro­mised to correct the abuses which had disgraced the ageof his predecessor, displayed the maxims of a just andbeneficent government, and declared, that on the ap- His con •proaching calends of January/ he would revive in his a.'d! see, January 1. c It is surprising how Pagi (Critica in Anna!. Barou. tpm. 2. p. 639.) conld betempted by any chronicles to contradict the plain and decisive text of Corippus (vi­dua dona, lib. 2. 354; vidua dies, lib. 4. 1.) and to postpone, till A. D. 567, the con-mlship of Justin. 1 D 1