OCR Output ah. 1756.] 53 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. gates; and he called upon Joseph, who soldthe corn to them; being become confessedlya saviour to the whole multitude of the Egyp­tians. Nor did he open this market of cornfor the people of that country only: but stran­gers had liberty to buy also, Joseph beingwilling that all men, who are naturally akinto each other, should have assistance fromthose that lived in happiness. Jacob also when he understood thatforeigners had this privilege, sent all his sonsinto Egypt to buy corn; for the land of Ca­naan was grievously afflicted with the famine:and this great misery touched the wholecontinent. He only retained Benjamin, whowas born to him by Rachel; and was of thesame mother as Joseph. These sons of Jacobthen came into Egypt, and applied them­selves to Joseph, to buy corn, for nothing ofthis kind was done without his approbation!since even the honour that was paid the kinghimself, was only advantageous to the per­sons that paid it when they took care tohonour Joseph also. Now when he well knewhis brethren, they thought nothing of him; forhe was but a youth when he left them, andwas now come to an age much greater, thatthe lineaments of his face were changed, andhe was not known to them; besides this, thegreatness of the dignity wherein he appearedsuffered them not so much as to suspect thetruth. He therefore now made trial whatsentiments they had about the affairs of thegreatest consequence; for he refused to sellthem corn, and said they were come as spiesof the king's affairs; and that they came fromseveral countries, and joined themselvestogether, and pretended they were of kin; itnot being possible that a private man should breed up so many sons, and those of so greata beauty of countenance as they were: suchan education of so many children being noteasily obtained by kings themselves. Nowthis he did in order to discover what con­cerned his father; and what happened to himafter his own departure from him; and as de­siring to know what was become of Benjaminhis brother; for he was afraid that they hadventured on the like wicked enterprise againsthim, that they had done to himself, and hadtaken him off also.* Now these brethren of his were under dis­traction and terror, and thought that verygreat danger hung over them; yet not at allreflecting upon their brother Joseph, andstanding firm under the accusations laid againstthem, they made their defence by Reubel, theeldest of them, who now became their spokes­man. "We come not hither," said he, " withany unjust design, nor in order to bring anyharm to the king's affairs; we only want tobe preserved, as supposing,your humanitymight be a refuge for us from the miserieswhich our country labours under; we haveheard that you proposed to sell corn, not onlyto your own countrymen, but to strangersalso; and that you determined to allow thatcorn in order to preserve all that want it.But that we are brethren, and of the samecommon blood, the peculiar lineaments ofour face, and those not much different fromone another, plainly shew. Our father's nameis Jacob, an Hebrew; who had twelve sons,by four wives, which twelve of us while wewere all alive, were a happy family. Butwhen one of our brethren, whose name wasJoseph, died, our affairs changed for theworse, for our father could not forbear to of famine before they came, told us before, as well as here,by Josephus, seems almost incredible. It is in no othercopy that I know of. * In scripture Joseph is represented as swearing by thelife of Pharaoh. Most authors take this for an oath, theoriginal of which is well explained by Mr. Selden, (in hisTitles of Honour, p. 45.) where he observes, that thenames of gods being given to kings very early, from theexcellency of their heroic virtue, which made them an­ciently great benefactors to mankind; thence arose thecustom of swearing by them: which Aben Ezra saith,continued in his time, (about 1170,) when Egypt wasgoverned by caliphs. It any man swore by the king'sbead, and were found to have sworn falsely, he waspunished capitally. Extraordinary as this kind of oathwhich Joseph made use of may appear to us, it still con- tinues in the East. Mr. Hanway says, the most sacredoath among the Persians is " by the king's head;" (Trav.vol. i. p. 313.) and among other instances of it we read inthe travels of the Ambassadors, p. 204, "there were butsixty horses for ninety-four persons. The Mehemander(or conductor) swore by the head of the king (which is thegreatest oath among the Persians) that he could not pos­sibly find any more." And Thevenot says, (Trav. p.97, part 2.) "his subjects never look upon him but withfear and trembling; and they have such respect for him,and pay so blind an obedience to his orders, that how un­just soever his commands might be, they perform them,though against the law both of God and nature. Nay, ifthey swear by the king's head, their oath is more authentic,and of greater credit, than if they swore by all that is mostsacred in heaven and upon earth."