OCR Output 396 KLAVIUS JOSEPHUB [B. I. but were not satisfied till they had been guilty of sacrilege,and destroyed the images of the gods, and used them inroasting of those sacred animals that used to be worshipped,and forced the priests and prophets to be the executionersand murderers of those animals, and then ejected them nakedout of the country. It was also reported, that the priest whoordained their polity and their laws was by birth of Heliopolis,and his name Osarsiph, from Osyris, who was the god ofHeliopolis; but that, when he was gone over to these people,his name was changed, and he was called Mooes." 27. This is what the Egyptians relate about the Jews, withmuch more, which I omit for the sake of brevity.—But stillManetho goes on, that " after this Amenophis returned backfrom Ethiopia with a great army, as did his son Rhampseswith another army also; and that both of them joined battlewith the shepherds and the polluted people, and beat them,and slew a great many of them, and pursued them to thebounds of Syria." These and the like accounts are writtenby Manetho. But I will demonstrate that he trifles, and tellsarrant lies, after I have made a distinction which will relateto what I am going to say about him: for this Manetho hadgranted and confessed that this nation was not originallyEgyptian, but that they had come from another country, andsubdued Egypt, and then went away again out of it. But thatthose Egyptians who were thus diseased in their bodies werenot mingled with us afterward, and that Moses who broughtthe people out was not one of that company, but lived manygenerations earlier, I shall endeavor to demonstrate fromManetho's own accounts themselves. 28. Now for the first occasion of this fiction, Manetho sup­poses what is no better than a ridiculous thing; for he saysthat " King Amenophis desired to see the gods." What gods,I pray, did he desire to see ? If he meant the gods whomtheir laws ordained to be worshipped, the ox, the goat, thocrocodile, and the baboon, he saw them already ; but for theheavenly gods, how could he see them, and what should occa­sion this his desire ? To be sure,1 it was because another king 1 Gt. By Jupiter.