OCR Output 120 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. event, they cast their attention towards the Plataeans, whowere still without: For the people of Plataea were scatteredabout the adjacent country with their implements of hus­bandry, because annoyance in time of peace was quite un«expected. They were desirous to catch some of these as ex­change for their own people within the city, if any were yetliving and prisoners there. On this they were fully bent;but in the midst of their project the Plataeans, who suspectedthe probability of some such design, and were anxious fortheir people yet without, dispatched a herald to the The-bans, representing to them—" the injustice of the attemptalready made ; since treaties subsisting, they had endea­voured to surprize the city;" and then warned them " todesist from any violence to those without. If not, they po­sitively declared they would put all the prisoners yet aliveto the sword; whereas, in case they retired peaceably outof their territory, they would deliver them up unhurt." Thisaccount the Thebans give, and say farther it was swornto. The Plataeans disown the promise of an immediate dis­charge of the prisoners, which was reserved for terms to beagreed on in a subsequent treaty, and flatly deny that theyswore. The Thebans however retired out of their territory,without committing any violence. But the Plataeans, whenthey had with expedition fetched into the city all their effectsof value that were out in the fields, immediately put all theirprisoners to the sword. The number of those that were takenwas one hundred and eighty. Eurymachus was amongstthem, with whom the traitors had concerted the surprize.And this done, they dispatched a messenger to Athens ; andrestored to the Thebans their dead under truce. And thenthey regulated the affairs of the city in the manner most suit­able to their present situation. The news of the surprised of Plataea had soon reachedthe Athenians, who immediately apprehended all the Boeo­tians then in Attica, and dispatched a herald to Plateea withorders—" to proceed no farther against the Theban pri­