OCR Output m [BOOK IV. AHfTlQUITIES OF THE TEWS. ing cattle. But MG3es supposing that theywere afraid of fighting the Canaanitcs, andinvented this provision for their cattle, as ahandsome excuse for avoiding that war, calledthem arrant cowards; and said, they hadonly contrived a decent excuse for their timi­dity; and that they had a mind to live inluxury and ease, while all the rest were la­bouring with great pains to obtain the landthey were desirous to have; and that theywere not willing to undergo the remaininghard service, whereby they were under theDivine promise to pass over Jordan, and over­come those enemies which God had shewedthem, and so obtain their land. But thesetribes, when they saw that Moses was angrywith them, and when they could not deny buthe had a just cause to be displeased at theirpetition, made an apology for themselves;and baid, that it was not on account of their(bar of danger, nor on account of their indo­lence that they made this request, but thatthey might leave the prey they had gotten inplaces of safety, and thereby might be moreexpeditious, and ready to undergo difficulties,and to fight battles. They added, also, thatwhen they had built cities, wherein theymight preserve their children, and wives, andpossessions, if he would bestow them uponthem, they would go along with the rest ofthe army. Hereupon Moses called for Ele-azar, the high-priest, and Joshua, and thechief of the tribes, and permitted these tribesto possess the land of the Amorites, but uponthis condition, that they should join with theirkinsmen in the war, until all things were set­tled. Upon which condition they took pos­session of the country, and built them strongcities, and put into them their children, andtheir wives, and whatsoever else they had thatmight be an impediment to the labours oftheir future marches. Moses also now built those ten cities, whichwere to be of the number of forty^eight, forthe Levites. Three of these he allotted tothose that slew any person involuntarily, andfled to them; and he assigned the same timefor their banishment, with that of the life ofthe high-priest, under whom the slaughterand flight happened; after which he permitted * Numb, xxxvi. 2, et 8**). ) From An. 1532 to 1492 B. C. the slayer to return home; the relations ofhim ihat were slain having the power to killthe slayer, if they caught him without thebounds of the city to which he fled; thoughthis permission was not granted to any otherperson. Now the cities which were set apartfor this flight were Bezer, at the borders ofArabia; Ramoth, of the land of Gilead; andGolan, in the land of Bashan. There wereto be also, by Moses's command, three othercities allotted for the habitation of these fu­gitives, out of the cities of the Levites; butnot till after they should be in possession oi'the land of Canaan. At this time the chief men of the tribe ofManasseh came to Moses, and informed him,that there was an eminent man of their tribedead, whose name was Zelophehad, who hadno male children, but left daughters; andasked him whether the daughters might in­herit his land* or not? He made this answer:that if they shall marry into their own tribe,they shall carry their own estate along withthem; but if they shall marry to any of ano­ther tribe, they shall leave their inheritancein their father's tribe. And then it was thatMoses ordained that every one's inheritanceshould continue in his own tribe. CHAP. VIU. OF THE POLITY SETTLES BY MOSES, AND HIS DISAPPEARANCEFROM AMONG MANKIND. WHENt forty years were completed,within thirty days, Moses gatheredthe congregation near Jordan, where the cityAbila now stands, which place is full of palm-trees; and when all the people were cometogether, he spake thus to them: ** O ye Israelites, and fellow-soldiers, whohave been partners with me in this long andtoilsome journey. Since now the will of God,and the course of old age at an hundred and Jtwenty, requires that I depart out of this life;and since God has forbidden me to be a pa­tron or an assistant to you in what remains tobe done beyond Jordan; I thought it reason­able not to leave off my endeavours even nowfor your happiness; but to do my utmost toprocure for you the eternal enjoyment of good X Deut. xxxi. 2.