OCR Output 402 ROMAN EMPIRE. dels to fall upon you on all sides. Remain before Alepp otill God shall determine the event, and forage with yourhorse round the adjacent country. The exhortation ofthe commander of the faithful was fortified by a supplyof volunteers from all the tribes of Arabia, who arrivedin the camp on horses or camels. Among these wasDames, of a servile birth, but of gigantic size and in­trepid resolution. The forty-seventh day of his servicehe proposed, with only thirty men, to make an attempton the castle. The experience and testimony of Caledrecommended his offer; and Abu Obeidah admonishedhis brethren not to despise the baser origin of Dames,since he himself, could he relinquish the public care,would cheerfully serve under the banner of the slave.His design was covered by the appearance of a retreat;and the camp of the Saracens was pitched about a leaguefrom Aleppo. The thirty adventurers lay in ambush atthe foot of the hill; and Dames at length succeeded inhis inquiries, though he was provoked by the ignoranceof his Greek captives. God curse these dogs (said theilliterate Arab), what a strange barbarous language theyspeak. At the darkest hour of the night he scaled themost accessible height, which he had diligently surveyed,a place where the stones were less entire, or the slopeless perpendicular, or the guard less vigilant. Seven ofthe stoutest Saracens mounted on each other's shoulders,and the weight of the column was sustained on the broadand sinewy back of the gigantic slave. The foremostin this painful ascent could grasp and climb the lowestpart of the battlements; they silently stabbed and castdown the sentinels; and the thirty brethren, repeatinga pious ejaculation, O apostle of God, help and deliver us!were successively drawn up by the long folds of theirturbans. With bold and cautious footsteps, Dames ex­plored the palace of the governor, who celebrated, inriotous merriment, the festival of his deliverance. Fromthence returning to his companions, he assaulted on the