OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 397 force, but assisted my friend and ally, Prusias, whowas besieging it, and Lysimachia I rescued from theThracians. But since necessity diverted my attentionfrom the guarding of it to this present war, the Thra­cians have possession of it. So much for the jEtolians.To Attalus and the Rhodians I in justice owe nothing;for not to me, but to themselves, is the commencementof hostilities to be attributed. However, out of respectto the Romans, I will restore Perae to the Rhodians,and to Attalus his ships, and such prisoners as can befound. As to what concerns Nicephorium, and thetemple of Venus, what other answer can I make tothose who require their restoration, than what I shouldmake in case of woods and groves cut down; that, asthe only way of restoring them, I will take on myselfthe trouble and expense of planting, since it is thoughtfit that, between kings, such kinds of demands shouldbe made and answered?' The last part of his speechwas directed to the Achaeans, wherein he enumerated,first, the kindnesses of Antigonus; then, his own to­wards their nation, desiring them to consider the de­crees themselves had passed concerning him, whichcomprehended every kind of honor, divine and human;and to these he added their late decree, by which theyhad confirmed the resolution of deserting him. He in­veighed bitterly against their perfidy, but told themthat nevertheless he would give them back Argos.'With regard to Corinth, he would consult with theRoman general; and would, at the same time, inquirefrom him, whether he demanded only that he, Philip,should evacuate those cities which, being captured byhimself, were held by the right of war; or those, also,which he had received from his ancestors.' 35. The Achaeans and JEtolians were preparing toanswer, but, as the sun was near setting, the conferencewas adjourned to the next day; and Philip returnedto his station whence he came, the Romans and alliesto their camp. On the following day, Quintius re­paired to Nicaea, which was the place agreed on, at the