OCR Output LANUVIUM. 121 LANUVIUM. particularly mentioned, both among those thatfought at Pedum in B. c. 339, and the next yearat Astura (Liv. viii. 12, 13).* In the generalsettlement of affairs at the close of the war La­nuvium obtained the Roman civitas, but apparentlyin the first instance without the right of suffrage;for Festus, in a well-known passage, enumeratesthe Lanuvini among the communities who at onetime enjoyed all the other privileges of Roman citi­zens except the suffrage and the Jus Magis-trataum (Liv. viii. 14 ; Festus, v. Munidphtni),i statement which can only refer to this period.We know from Cicero that they subsequently ob­tained the full franchise and right of suffrage,but the time when they were admitted to theseprmlef.es is unknown. (Cic pro Bali. 13.) From this time Lanuvium lapsed into the con­dition of an ordinary municipal town, and is men­tioned chiefly in relation to its celebrated temple ofJuno Sospita. It did not, however, fall into decay,lite so many of the early Latin cities, and is men-tkdk-d by Cicero among the more populous andflourishing municipia of Latium, in the same classwith Aricia and Tusculum, which he contrasts withluch poor and decayed places as Labicum and Col-latia (Cic de Leg. Agr. ii. 35). Its chief magi­strate retained the ancient Latin title of Dictator,*h>ch was borne by T. Annius Milo, the celebratedadversary of Clodius, in the days of Cicero. (Cic.pro Mil 10; Orell. Inter. 3786.) Previous to thisperiod Lanuvium had suffered severely in the civilnn of Marius and Sulla, having been taken bythe former at the same time with Antium andAricia, just before the capture of Rome itself,B.C. 87. (Appian, B. C. i. 69; Liv. Epit. 80.)Nor did it escape in the later civil wars: thetreasures of its temple were seized by Octavian,and a part at least of its territory was dividedamong a colony of veterans by the dictator Caesar.(Appian, B. C. t. 24; Lib. Colon, p. 235.) Itsubsequently received another colony, and a part ofn> territory was at one time allotted to the vestalvirgins at Rome. (Ibid.') Lanuvium, however,never bore the title of a colony, but continued onlyto rank as a municipium, though it seems to havebeen a flourishing place throughout the periodrf the Roman Empire. It was the birthplace ofthe emperor Antoninus Pius, who in consequencefrtquently made it bis residence, as did also hissorcessors, M. Aurelius and Commodus: the last ofthese three is mentioned as having frequently dis­ced his skill as a gladiator in the amphitheatreat Lanuvium, the construction of which may pro-bail; be referred to this epoch. Inscriptions attestits continued prosperity under the reigns of Alex­ander Severus and Philippus. (Suet. Aug. 72;Tac.ytira.iii. 48: Capit. Ant. Pius, 1; Lamprid.Corood 1, 8; Vict, de Cats. 15; Orell. Inter.SH, 3740, &c.) Linavitun was the place from which several illus­trious Human families derived their origin. Amongthe* were the Annia, to which Milo, the adversary * In the Fasti Capitolini (ad ann. cdxv.; Gruter,r 257) the consul C. Maenius is represented astekbrating a triumph over the Lavinians, together*ith the Annates and Veliterni, where it appearscertain from Livy's narrative that the Lanuviansart the people really meant: a remarkable instance•t bow ea, ly a period the confusion between thetwo lames had arisen. of Clodius, belonged by adoption, as well as thePapia, from which he was originally descended; theRoscia, and the Thoria (Cic pro Mil. 10; Ascon.ad Milan, pp. 32, 53; Cic. de Divin. i. 36, ii. 31,de Fin. ii. 20), to which may probably be added,on the authority of coins, the Procilia and Mettia.(Eckhel, vol. v. pp. 253, 267, 289, 293.) Welearn from Cicero that not only did the Roscia Gensderive its origin from Lanuvium, but the celebratedactor Roscius was himself born in the territory ofthat city. (Cic. de Die. i. 36.) But the chief celebrity of Lanuvium was derivedfrom its temple of Juno Sospita, which enjoyed apeculiar sanctity, so that after the Latin War inB. c. 338 it was stipulated that the Romans shouldenjoy free participation with the Lanuvians them­selves in her worship and sacred rites (Liv. viii. 14):and althongh at a later period a temple was erectedat Rome itself to the goddess under the same de­nomination, the consuls still continued to repairannually to Lanuvium for the purpose of offeringsolemn sacrifices. (Liv. xxxii. 30, xxxiv. 53; Cic.pro Muren. 41.) The peculiar garb and attributesof the Lanuvian Juno are described by Cicero (deNat. Dcor. i. 29), and attested by the evidence ofnumerous Roman coins: she was always representedwith a goat's skin, drawn over her head like ahelmet, with a spear in her hand, and a small shieldon the left arm, and wore peculiar shoes with thepoints turned up (calceoli repandi). On coins wefind her also constantly associated with a serpent;and we learn from Propertius and Aelian that therewas a kind of oracle in the sacred grove attached toher temple, where a serpent was fed with fruits andcakes by virgins, whose chastity was considered tobe thus put to the test. (Propert. iv. 8 ; Aelian,//. A. xi. 16, where the true reading is undoubtedlyAayovtq), and not Aaoviviip; Eckhel, vol. v. p. 294.) The frequent notices in Livy and elsewhere ofprodigies occurring in the temple and sacred groveof Juno at Lanuvium, as well as the allusions to herworship at that place scattered through the Romanpoets, sufficiently show how important a part thelatter had assumed in the Roman religion. (Liv.xxiv. 10, xxix. 14, xxxi. 12, xl. 19; Cic deDivin. i. 44, ii. 27; Ovid. Fast vi. 60; Sil. Ital.xiii. 364.) We learn from Appian that a largetreasure had gradually accumulated in her temple,as was the case with most celebrated sanctuaries;and Pliny mentions that it was adorned with veryancient, but excellent, paintings of Helen and Ata-lanta, which the emperor Caligula in vain attemptedto remove (Plin. xxxv. 3. s. 6.) It appears froma passage in Cicero (de Fin. ii. 20) that Juno wasfar from being the only deity especially worshippedat Lanuvium, but that the city was noted as abound­ing in ancient temples and religious rites, and wasprobably one of the chief seats of the old Latin re­ligion. A temple of Jupiter adjoining the forumis the only one of which we find any special men­tion. (Liv. xxxii. 9.) Though there is no doubt that Civita Ltiviniaoccupies the original site of Lanuvium, the positionof which is well described by Strabo and SiliusItalicus (Strab. v. p. 239; Sil. Ital. viii. 360), andwe know from inscriptions that the ancient city con­tinued in a flourishing condition down to a lateperiod of the Roman empire, it is curious thatscarcely any ruins now remain. A few shapelessmasses of masonry, principally substructions ncilfoundations, of which those that crown the summit