OCR Output B. IV. YEAR VIII. BEFORE CHRIST 424. 373 wing of the Boeotians, even to the centre, was routed by theAthenians, who pressed upon those who composed it, but es­pecially on the Thespiensians. For, the others who weredrawji up with them giving way before the shock, the Thes­piensians were inclosed in a small compass of ground, wheresuch of them as were slaughtered defended themselvesbravely till they were quite hewed down. Some also of theAthenians, disordered in thus encompassing them about,knew not how to distinguish, and slew one another. In thisquarter, therefore, the Boeotians were routed, and fled to­wards those parts where the battle was yet alive. Theirright wing, in which the Thebans were posted, had the betterof the Athenians. They had forced them at first to giveground a little, and pressed upon them to pursue theiradvantage. It happened that Pagondas had detached twotroops of horse (which motion was not perceived) to fetch acompass round the eminence and support the left wing whichwas routed. These suddenly appearing in sight, the victo­rious wing of Athenians, imagining a fresh army was comingup to the charge, was struck into consternation. And nowbeing distressed on both sides by this last turn, and by theThebans who pursued their advantage close and put theminto a total disorder, the whole Athenian army was routedand fled. Some ran towards Delium and the sea, others toOropus, and others towards mount Parnes ; all, to whateverplace they hoped was safe. But the Boeotians, especiallytheir horse, and the Locrians who had come up to the fieldof battle just as the rout began, pursued them with great exe­cution. But the night putting an end to the chace, the bulkof the flying army preserved themselves more easily. The day following, such of them as had reached Deliumand Oropus, leaving behind a garrison in Delium, which stillremained in their possession, transported themselves by seato Athens. The Boeotians also, having erected a trophy,carried off their own dead, rifled those of the enemy, andhaving posted a guard upon the field of battle, retired to Vol.. I. 3 P