OCR Output 148 [book t ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. near to Jerusalem, when they saw what mise­ries had happened to the inhabitants of Je­richo, and to those of Ai, and suspected thatthe like sore calamity would come as far asthemselves, they did not think fit to ask formercy of Joshua, for they supposed theyshould find little mercy from him who madewar that he might entirely destroy the nationof the Canaanites. But they invited thepeople of Cephirah and Kiriathjearim, whowere their neighbours, to join in the leaguewith them, and told them, that neither couldthey themselves avoid the danger they wereall in, if the Israelites should prevent them,and seize upon them: so when they had per­suaded them, they resolved to endeavour toescape the forces of the Israelites. Accord­ingly upon their agreement to what they pro­posed, they sent ambassadors to Joshua, tomake a league of friendship with him, andchose such of the citizens as were best ap­proved of, and most capable of doing whatwas most advantageous to the multitude. Nowthese ambassadors thought it dangerous toconfess themselves to be Canaanites, butthought they might avoid the danger by say­ing that they bare no relation to the Canaan­ites at all, but dwelt at a very great distancefrom them; and they said farther, that theycame a long way on account of the reputationJoshua had gained for his virtue; and as aproof of the truth of what they said, theyshewed him the habit they were in, for thattheir clothes were new when they came out,but were greatly worn by the length of timethey had been on their journey, for indeedthey took torn garments, on purpose that theymight make him believe so; so they stood inthe midst of the people, and said, that theywere sent by the people of Gibeon, and ofthe circumjacent cities, which were very re­mote from the land where they now were, tomake such a league of friendship with them,and this on such conditions as were customaryamong their forefathers; for, when they un­derstood that, by the favour of God, and hisgift to them, they were to have the possession Israel should have put them upon some other expedientthan that of lying and deceit. They should have enquired(as far as the obscure dispensation they were under wouldhave permitted them) into the cause of God's severityagainst them. They should have acknowledged, that itwas their grievous sins which drew down this heavyjudgment upon their nation; and after they had repented of the land of Canaan bestowed upon them,they said they were very glad to hear it, anddesired to be admitted into the number oftheir citizens. Thus did these ambassadorsspeak, and shewing them the marks of theirlong journey, they intreated the Hebrews tomake a league of friendship with them. Ac­cordingly Joshua, believing that they werenot of the nation of the Canaanites, enteredinto friendship with them, and Eleazar thehigh-priest, with the senate, sware to them,that they would esteem them their friendsand associates, and would attempt nothingthat should be unfair against them, the multi­tude also assenting to the oaths that weremade to them; so these men having obtainedwhat they desired by deceiving the Israel­ites, went home; but when Joshua led hisarmy to the country at the bottom of themountains of this part of Canaan, he under­stood that the Gibeonites dwelt not far fromJerusalem, and that they were of the stockof the Canaanites; so he sent for their go­vernors, and reproached them with the cheatthey had put upon him. But they allegedon their own behalf, that they had no otherway to save themselves but that, and weretherefore forced to have recourse to it. Sohe called for Eleazar the high-priest, and forthe senate, who thought it right to makethem public servants, that they might notbreak the oath they had made to them; andthey ordained them to be so; and this wasthe method by which these men found secu­rity under the calamity that was ready toovertake them.* But the king of Jerusalem took it to heartthat the Gibeonites had gone over to Joshua;so he called upon the kings of the neighbour­ing nations to join together to make waragainst them. Now when the Gibeonites sawthese kings, which were four, besides theking of Jerusalem, and perceived that theyhad pitched their camp at a certain fountainnot far from the city, and were getting readyfor the siege, they called upon Joshua to assistthem; for such was their case, as to expect thereof in sackcloth and ashes, they should have committedthe rest to Providence, never doubting but that he, whohad changed the very course of nature to punish the guilty,would always find out some means or other to save thepenitent; but this they did not do, and therefore they wereculpable. Scncrin, vol. 3. dissertation 4. B.* Josh. ix. 87.