OCR Output MEDIA. 301 MEDIA. gives little or no description of the country they in­habited, and perhaps all that could be interred fromhis language U, that it must have been a moun­tainous district between the Halys in Asia Minorand Persia, fit for raising a warlike and indepen­dent race of men (i. 72). Again, during the wars ofAlexander, Media had to a considerable extent takenthe place of Persia, and was the great country E. ofMesopotamia, and extending indefinitely along theCaspian sea eastwards to Ariana and Bactriana.Still later, at the close of the Roman Republic andunder the earlier emperors, Media was restricted bythe encroachments of the Parthian empire to itsmost mountainous parts, and to the Caspian coastwestwards,—the province of Atropatene forming, infact, all that could be strictly called Media. Indeed,its limits were constantly changing atdifferent periods.Genera] consent, however, allows that Media was di­visible into three leading divisions, each of whichfrom time to time was apparently held to be MediaProper. These were:—1. A northern territory alongthe shores of the Caspian, extending more or lessfrom Armenia ou the W. to Hyrcania on the E.,comprehending much of the country now known bythe names of Mazanderan and GUdn; 2. MediaAtropatene, a very mountainous district, to the westand south of the preceding [Atropatene] : and 3.Media Magna, the most southern, extensive, and, his­torically, the most important, of the three divisions,with its capital Ecbatana (the present Hamadan). Of the ancient geographers, Ptolemy gives thiscountry the widest boundaries. Media, says he, isbounded on the X. by the Hyrcanian (i. e. the Cas­pian) sea, on the \V. by Armenia and Assyria, onthe S. by Persia and a line drawn from Assyria toSasiana, and on the E. by Hyrcania and Parthia(vi. 2. §§ 1, 3). It is clear from this, and still morefo fnjm the mention he makes of the tribes and townsin it, that he is speaking of Media in its most ex­tended serine: while, at the same time, he does notrvcoenise the triple division noticed above, and speaksof Atropatene (or, as he calls it, Tropatene, vi. 2, 5)as one only of many tribes. Strata, in the tolerably fall account which hegives of ancient Media, is content with a twofolddivision, into Media Atropatene and Media Magna;to these he cives nearly the same limits as Ptolemy,comprehending, however, under the former, themountain tiact near the Caspian (xi. pp. 522—526). Pliny, in stating that what was formerly•Jje kingdom of the Persians, is now (in his time)under the Parthians, appears only to recognise Me­dia Magna as Media Proper (vi. 14. s. 17). Atro­patene, though subject to Ecbatana, the capital ofMedia Magna, he does not seem to consider hasany thing to do vi ith it (vi. 13. b. 1C). We proceed now to describe Media Magna, thefiM or most northern part of what was popularlyf*\V-d Media having been fully noticed tinder Atko-TxTtsv. and Ecbataxa. It is very difficult to dis-tinjuish the classical accounts of the different divi­sions to which we have alluded, the name Mediabr,r.g used very indefinitely. It may, however, befated generally, that Media Magna comprehendedthe whole of the rich and fertile plain-country whichwis shut in between the great chain of the Cardu-ciiuui mountains and of Mt. Zagros in the W. and byHt. C<ironus on the N. It appears to have extendeda* Cir eouth as Elymais and Susiana, and to havehmleTed on the eastern side on Caramania andAriana, or on what, in later times, was better known by the name of Parthia. Some have attemptedto prove that it derived its name from its lyingin the middle part of Asia (Gesenius, The$, ii. p.768; cf. also Polyb. v. 44, who states, 'H Nrfilakcitou wepl fi(cr]v rijv 'Aofai'). The derivation,however, admits of doubt. On the Cuneiform In­scriptions the name is read Mada (Rawlinson, Behis-tun Intc. At. Journ. vol. x.). Much of this landwas of a high elevation above the sea, but itabounded in fertile valleys, famous for their rich­ness, and in meadow land in which a celebratedbreed of horses, called the Nisaean horses, wereraised. (Herod, vii. 40, iii. 106; Diod. xvii.100 ; Strab. xi. p. 525 ; Aelian, But. Anim, iii. 2;Ammian. xxiii. 6.; cf. also the modern travellers,Ker Porter, vol. i. p. 216, Chardin, and Morier.)It is comprehended for the most part in the mo­dern province of Irak Ajem. The principal town of Media Magna was Ecba­tana (doubtless the present Hamaddn), which,during the time of the wars of Alexander, as formany years before, was the capital of the wholecountry. [Ecbatana.] Besides Ecbatana, wereother towns of importance, most of them situatedin the HE. part of the country, on the edge of,if not within, Atropatene, as Kiiaoae and 11k- RACLEIA. It is equally difficult to determine with accuracywhat states or tribes belong to Media Magna. Itis probable, however, that the following may bebest comprehended in this division:—The Sagartii,who occupied the passes of Mt. Zagros; Choro-mithrene, in the champaign country to the southof Ecbatana ; Elymais, to the north of Choromi-threne — if indeed this name has not been erro­neously introduced here by Ptolemy and Polybius[Elymais]; the Tapyri or Tapyrrhi, S. of Sit.Coronus as far as Parthia and the Caspian Gates;Rhagiana, with its capital Rhagae; Sigriane, Daritis,and, along the southern end of the Parachoatras,what was called Syromedia. (See these placesunder their respective names.) The Medi, or inhabitants of Media, are the samepeople as the Madai of the Bible, from whichSemitic word the Greek name is most likely derived.Madai is mentioned in Genesis, as one of the sonsof Japhet (x. 2), in the first repeopling of theearth after the Flood; and the same name occursin more than one place, subsequently, indicating,as it would seem, an independent people, subjectto the king of Nineveh (2 Kings, xvii. 6), or inconnection with, if not subject to, the Persians,as in Dan. v. 28, vi. 15; Etth. i. 3, 14. Thefirst Greek author who gives any description ofthem is Herodotus. According to him, they wereoriginally called Ann, but changed their name to thatof Medi on the coming of Medeiafrom Athens(vii. 62).They were divided into six tribes, the Busae (htcph.Byz.), Paraetaceni (Strab. xi. p. 522, xvi. p. 739,&c. ; Arriaii, iii. 19), Struchates, Arizanti, Budii(Steph. Byz.), and the Magi. Von Hammer hasattemped to show that most, if not all, of thesenames occur under their Persian form in the Zend-avesta and Shah-nameh (IFiener. Jahrb. ix. pp. 11,12), but it may be questioned whether the iden­tification can be considered as satisfactory. Some,however, of these names indicate the Eastern originof the inhabitants of Media, as Arii and Arizahti[Ariana; Arizanti]; though it may be doubtedwhether others of them, as the Magi, ought to boconsidered as separate tribes. The general evidence