OCR Output NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. 409 J-i thrtghnt the long wars of the Republic.(ISLLM; Lit.xxxv. 16.) Thwfi Xapolis thus passed gradually into the^:*9 of n mere provincial town of the Romantrivial titer the passing of the Lex Julia, becameu .riiunr municipal town (Cic pro Balb. 8, adfm. m. JO), it continued to be a flourishing and,'xlut pace. «d retained, to a far greater extent. a iet Mbrr city in this part of Italy, its Greekrvn> vi iastitations; while its population wastii ilacst exclosTelr Greek. Thus Strabo tells•j "in, is hU time, though they had become Romanthey ttill bad their gymnasia and quin-rams, with contests of music and gym-aavrmiaai after the Greek fashion; and retained. .iinka into Phratries, a circumstance attestedu \* tttnuims still extant. (Strab. T. p. 246;tnr.i.L T.8J; Boeckh, C. I. vol. iii. p. 715.)r- !fTtiecj(«of the Republic, the increasing love oftxtom and literature led many of the upperknkjc^ the Unmans to resort to Neapolis forawn, or cultivation of these pursuits; while'i f* »tre attracted by the delightful and luxu-'suit or the earpassing beauty of the scenery.I. :<**wd alio hot springs, similar to those ofL^-. L*«fh inferior in number (Strab. I. c); andu causes combined to render it one of thea-*-* nvjru of tie Roman nobility. Its pros-anti neaved a rode shock, in B. c. 82, during thefr* War « Marios and Sulla, when a body of the►**«» of the latter, having been admitted byaw>ry jato the city, made a general massacre ofa> uuinb (Appian, B. C. i. 89); but it seems»hn» ^aickhr recovered this blow, as it was cer-atni^rijunj city in the time of Cicero, and * v-i iucb throughout the period of the Roman It it not improbable that it received a*" * rmh colijoista under Sulla, but certainly|l" thtn suume tbe title of a Colonia, as it isteaiv alluded to by Cicero as a Muniripium.M *Fm. xu'i. SO, ad Att. x. 13.) Under thear^ n Sad it in inscriptions bearing the title of(Groter, Inter, p. 110. 8, p. 373.2);■ 0 much doubt as to the period when it'-' it rank. It is, however, noticed as such[h*.- rra«. tod would seem to have first received * 'aaeer Claudius, to which subsequent addi-k v«re nads under Titus and the Antonines.P Co** p. 233; Zumpt, de Colon, pp. 259, * ''*■«. SaUr. 44. 76; Boeckh, C. I. voL iii.W^718.) P"a» as immediate territory, Neapolis had■*v >Meoed the two important islands of Ca­pe* Aeaaria (faataa); bat the latter had beenP* froai it by force of arms, probably at themi tt fnt war with Rome. Capreae, on tbe':=i continued subject to Neapolis withoutw*v. a "jll the time of Augustus, who, havingWi (avry Is the adaad, annexed it to the impe-l * '*T rmng up to tho Neapolitans in ex-P ta» richer and more important island of■» (Stes. Aug. 92; Dion Cass. Iii. 43.)•» Kiractions which had rendered Neapolis|v*rat awioeare of wealthy Romans under ther*=c writes with atiD increased force under the^ la rroaaita and public games continuedPf- -rWs»:rtl. and the emperors themselvespi M to preside at them. (Suet. Aug. 98.r*. Ttfl. Pat. u. 123; Dion Cass, lxiii. 26.)r**; '-artsre of < Jreek manners, which causedpb uaoneotly distinguished as "the Greek city," attracted thither many grammarians andothers; so that it came to acquire a reputation forlearning, and is called by Martial and Columella"docta Parthenope" (Martial, v. 78. 14; Colum.x. 134); while its soft and luxurious climate renderedit the favourite resort of the indolent and effeminate.Hence Horace terms it " otinsa Neapolis;" and Ovid,still more strongly, "in otia natsm Parthenopen."(Hor. Epod. 5. 43; Ovid, Met. xv. 711; Stat. Silv.iii. 78—88; Sil. Ital. xii. 31.) The coasts on bothsides of it were lined with villas, among which themost celebrated was that of Vedius Pollio, on theridge of hill between Neapolis and Puteoli, to whichhe had given the name of Pausilypus (nai/<rlAu»oj);an appellation afterwards extended to the whole hillon which it stood, and which retains to the presentday the name of Monte Posilipo. (Dion Cass. liv.23; Plin. ix. 53. s. 78.) Neapolis was a favouriteresidence of the emperor Nero, as well as of his pre­decessor Claudius; and it was in tbe theatre therethat the former made his first appearance on thestage, before he ventured to do so publicly at Rome.(Tac. Ann. xiv. 10, xv. 33; Dion Cass. Ix. 6.) Itis well known also that it was for a considerableperiod the residence of Virgil, who composed, or atleast finished, his Georgics there. (Virg. Georg. iv.564.) Thither, also, his remains were transferredafter his death; and his tomb was still extant therein the time of the poets Statius and Silius Italicus,who paid to it an almost superstitious reverence.The last-named poet himself died at Neapolis, wherehe had a villa, which was his favourite place of resi­dence, as it was also that of Statius, who, in severalpassages, appears to allude to it as tbe place of hisbirth. (Donat ViL Virg.; Plin. Ep. iii. 7; Mar­tial, xi. 49; Stat. Silv. iii. 5. 13, iv. 4. 51—55.) It is clear that Neapolis was at this period a pro­vincial city of the first class; and though we meetwith little historical mention of it during the lateragea of the Empire, inscriptions sufficiently provethat it retained its consideration and importance.It appears to have escaped the ravages of the Gothsand Vandals, which inflicted such severe blows upontbe prosperity both of Capua and Nola (Hist. Mis-cell xv. p. 553); and under the Gothic king Thc-odoric, Cossiodorus speaks of it as still possessing anumerous population, and abounding in every kindof delight, both by sea and land. (Cassiod. Var. vi.23.) In the Gothic wars which followed, it wastaken by Belisarius, after a long siege, and a greatpart of the inhabitants put to the sword, A. D. 536.(Procop. B. G. i. 8—10.) It was retaken by To-tila in A. D. 542 (lb. iii. 6—8), but again recoveredby Narses soon after, and continued from this timesubject to the supremacy of the Byzantine Empire,as a dependency of the exarchate of Ravenna, butunder the government of its own dukes. In theeighth century Paulus Diaconus still speaks of it asone of the "opulentissimae urbes" of Campania.(Hist. Lang. ii. 17.) It was about this period thatit threw off the yoke of the Byzantine emperors, andcontinued to enjoy a state of virtual independence,until it was conquered in A. D. 1140 by the Normans,and became thenceforth the capital of the kingdomof Naples. It is certain that the ancient city of Neapolis didnot occupy nearly so great a space as tbe modernKaplet, which is the largest and most populous cityin Italy, and contains above 400,000 inhabitants.It appears to have extended on the E. as far as theriver Scbethus, a small stream still called the Sebeto,