OCR Output 126 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI. "you assist them, that at the same season whereto their miser-"able estate did belong, they may defend themselves the Tery« same day from unjust violence, the thirteenth day of the"twelfth month, which is Adar, for God hath made that day a'** day of salvation instead of a day of destruction to them; and"may it be a good day to those that wish us well, and a memo-^ rial of the punishment of the conspirators against us! and I"will that you take notice, that every city, and every nation,f* that shall disobey any thing that is contained in this epistle,"shall be destroyed by fire and sword. However, let thisf* epistle be published through all the country that is under ourf* obedience, and let all the Jews, by all means be ready against** the day before mentioned, that they may avenge themselves* upon their enemies." 13. Accordingly, the horsemen who carried the epistles, pro­ceeded on the ways which they were to go with speed: but asfor Mordecai, as soon as he had assumed the royal garment, andthe crown of gold, and had put the chain about his neck, he wentforth in a public procession; and when the Jews, who are atShushan, saw him in so great honour with the king, they thoughthis good fortune was common to themselves also; and joy, and abeam of salvation encompassed the Jews, both those that were inthe cities, and those that were in the countries, upon the publi­cation of the king's letters, insomuch, that many even of othernations circumcised their foreskin for fear of the Jews, that theymight procure safety to themselves thereby; for on the thir­teenth day of the twelfth month, which according to the Hebrewsis called Adar, but according to the Macedonians, Dystrus, thosethat carried the king's epistle gave them notice, that the sameday wherein their danger was to have been, on that very dayshould they destroy their enemies. But now the rulers of theprovinces, and the tyrants, and the kings, and the scribes, hadthe Jews in esteem; for the fear they were in of Mordecaiforced them to act with discretion. Now when the royal decreewas come to all the country that was subject to the king, it fellout that the Jews at Shushan slew five hundred of their enemies:and when the king had told Esther the number of those that wereslain in that city, but did not well know what had been done inthe provinces, he asked her, whether she would have any thingfarther done against them ? for that it should be done according­ly: Upon which she desired that the Jews might be permittedto treat their remaining enemies in the same manner the nextday; as also that they might hang ten sons of Haman upon thegallows. So the king permitted the Jews so to do, as desirous notto contradict Esther. So they gathered themselves together again'on the fourteenth day of the month Dystrus, and slew aboutthree hundred of their enemies, but touched nothing of what