OCR Output 242 ". DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLII. preserved his name, extended no farther than the neigh­bourhood of Trebizond. Beyond these limits the forti­fications of Hyssus, of Apsarus, of the Phasis, of Dioscu-rias or Sebastopolis, and of Pity us, were guarded bysufficient detachments of horse and foot; and six princesof Colchos received their diadems from the lieutenants ofvisitor Caesar. One of these lieutenants, the eloquent and phi-A.D.I90. losophic Arrian, surveyed, and has described, the Euxinecoast, under the reign of Hadrian. The garrison whichhe reviewed at the mouth of the Phasis, consisted of fourhundred chosen legionaries; the brick-walls and towers,- the double ditch, and the military engines on the rampart,rendered this place inaccessible to the bkrbarians; butthe new suburbs, which had been built by the merchantsand veterans, required, in the opinion of Arrian, someexternal defence.1 As the strength of the empire wasgradually impaired, the Romans stationed on the Phasiswere either withdrawn or expelled; and the tribe of theLazi,™ whose posterity speak a foreign dialect, and inha­bit the sea-coast of Trebizond, imposed their name anddominion on the ancient kingdom of Colchos. Their in­dependence was soon invaded by a formidable neighbour,who had acquired, by arms and treaties, the sovereigntyof Iberia. The dependant king of Lazica received hissceptre at the hands of the Persian monarch and thesuccessors of Constantine acquiesced in this injuriousclaim, which was proudly urged as a right of immemorialconversion prescription. In the beginning of the sixth century,a?d! 522.' tneir influence was restored by the introduction ofChristianity, which the Mingrelians still profess with be­coming zeal, without understanding the doctrines, orobserving the precepts, of their religion. After the de- 1 Iu the time of Procopius, there were no Roman forts on the Phasis. Pytius andSehastopolis were evacuated on the romour of the Persians; (Goth. lib. 4. c. 4.) butthe latter was afterward restored by Justiniau. (de Edif. lib. 4. o. 7.) ■ In the time of Pliny, Arrian, and Ptolemy, the Lazi were a particular tribe onthe northern skirt of Colchos. (Cellarius, Geograph. Antiq. tom. 2. p. 222.) In theage of Justinian, they spread, or at least reigned, over the whole country. At pre-'sent they have migrated along the coast towards Trehizond, and compose a rude sea*faring people, with a peculiar language. (Chardin, p. 149. Peyssonoel, p. 64.)