OCR Output 136 [book IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. found it, and then restore it again; as notthinking it right to make his own profit bythe loss of another. And the same rule is tobe observed in cattle found to have wanderedaway into a lonely place.* If the owner benot presently discovered, let him that is thefinder keep it with himself, and appeal toGod, that he has not purloined what belongsto another. It is not lawful to pass by any beast that isin distress, when in a storm it is fallen downin the mire, but to endeavour to preserve it;as having a sympathy with it in its pain.t It is also a duty to shew the roads to thosewho do not know them; and not to esteem ita matter of sport, when we hinder other's ad­vantage, by setting them in a wrong way. In like manner let no one revile a personblind or dumb.J If men strive together, and there be no in­strument of iron, let him that is smitten beavenged immediately, by inflicting the samepunishment on him that smote him. But ifwhen he is carried home, he lie sick manydays, and then die, let him that smote himescape punishment; but if he that is smittenescape death, and yet be at great expensefor his cure, the smiter shall pay for all thathas been expended during the time of hissickness, and for all that he has paid the phy­sician. I He that kicks a pregnant woman,so that she§ miscarry, let him pay a fine ofmoney, as the judges shall determine; ashaving diminished the multitude by the de­struction of her offspring; and let money alsobe given the woman's husband by him thatkicked her; but if she die of the stroke, lethim also be put to death; the law judging itequitable that life should go for life. Let no one of the Israelites keep any poi- son,** that may cause death, or any otherharm; but if he be caught with it, let him beput to death, and suffer the same mischief thathe would have brought upon them for whomthe poison was prepared. He that maimeth any one, let him undergothe same himself; and be deprived of thesame member of which he hath deprived theother,tt unless he that is maimed will acceptof money instead of it. For the law makesthe sufferer the judge of the value of whichhe has suffered, and permits him to estimateit, unless he will be more severe. Let him that is the owner of an ox whichpusheth with his horn, kill him; but if he pushand gore any one in the threshing floor, lethim be put to death by stoning; and let himnot be thought fit for food. But if his ownerbe convicted as having known what his na­ture was, and hath not kept him up, let himalso be put to death; as being the occasionof the ox's having killed a man.f|; But if theox have killed a man-servant, or a maid-ser­vant, let him be stoned, and let the owner ofthe ox pay|||| thirty shekels to the master ofhim that was slain. But if it be an ox that isthus smitten and killed, let both the oxen,that which smote the other, and that whichwas killed, be sold; and let the owners ofthem divide their price between them. Let those that dig a well or a pit be carefulto lay planks over them, and so keep themshut up; not in order to hinder any personsfrom drawing water, but that there be nodanger of falling into them. But if any one'sbeast perish by falling into such a well or pit,thus digged, and not shut up, let the ownerpay its price to the owner of the beast.§§ Letthere be a battlement round the tops ofyour houses, instead of a wall; that may * Exod. xxiii. 5. t Exod. xxiii. 5. I Levit. xix. 14. Deut. xxvii. 18. I! Exod. xxi. 19. § Philo and others appear to have understood this law,Exod. xxi. 22, 23, better than Josephus; who seems toaJ'ow, that though the infant in the mother's womb, evenafter the mother were quick, and so the infant had a ra­tional soul, were killed by the stroke upon the mother,ye* if the mother escaped, the offender should only befined and not put to death. While the law seems ratherto mean, that if the infant in that case be killed, thoughthe mother escape, the offender must be put to death:ani* not only when the mother is killed, as 'Josephus un­derstood it. It seems this was the exposition of the Phari­sees, in the days of Josephus. ** What we render a witch, according to our modernnotions of witchcraft; Exod. xxii. 18. Philo and Jose­phus understood of a poisoner; or one who attempted by-secret and unlawful drugs, or philtra, to take away thesenses or the lives of men. tt This permission of redeeming this penalty with mo­ney is not in our other copies. Exod. xxi. 24, 25. Levit.xxiv. 20. Deut. xix. 21. ft Exod. xxi. 28, 29. ||l| We may here note that thirty shekels, the price ourSaviour was sold for by Judas to the Jews, Matt. xxiv. 15.xxvii. 3. was the old value of a bought servant, or slave,among that people. §§ Exod. xxi. 33, 34.