OCR Output 210 TITUS RESUME6 [B. V. when the madness of Aristohulus and Hyrcanus, and ourmutual quarrels, brought Pompey upon this city, and whenGod reduced those under subjection to the Romans who wereunworthy of the liberty they had enjoyed. After a siege,therefore, of three months, they were forced to surrenderthemselves, although they had not been guilty of suchoffences with regard to our sanctuary and our laws as youhave; and this while they had much greater advantages togo to war than you have. Do not we know what endAntigonus, the son of Aristobulus, came to, under whosereign God provided that this city should be taken again uponaccount of the people's offences ? When Herod, the son ofAntipater, brought upon us Sosius, and Sosius brought uponus the Roman army, they were then encompassed and be­sieged for six months, till, as a punishment for their sins,they were taken, and the city was plundered by the enemy.Thus it appears that arms were never given to our nation,but that we are always given up to be fought against and tobe taken ; for I suppose that such as inhabit this holy placeought to commit the disposal of all things to God, and thenonly to disregard the assistance of men, when they resignthemselves up to their arbitrator who is above. As for you,what have you done of those things that are recommendedby our legislator ? and what have you not done of those thingsthat he hath condemned ? How much more impious are youthan those which were so quickly taken ? You have notavoided so much as those sins that are usually done in secret;I mean thefts and treacherous plots against men, and adul­teries. You are quarrelling about rapines and murders, andinvent strange ways of wickedness. Nay, the temple itselfis become the receptacle of all, and this divine place ispolluted by the hands of those of our own country; whichplace hath yet been reverenced by the Romans, when it wasat a distance from them, when they have suffered many oftheir own customs to give place to our law. And, after allthis, do you expect him whom you have so impiously abusedto be your supporter ? To be sure, then you have a right tobe petitioners, and to call upon him to assist you, so pure are