OCR Output 222 [book VI. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. of what had happened. But when he hadrecovered from his grief, and had raised uphis mind to God, he desired the high-priestAbiathar to put on his sacerdotal garments,and to inquire of God, and to prophesy tohim, whether God would grant, that if hepursued after the Amalekites, he should over­take them, and save their wives and theirchildren, and avenge himself on the enemies?and when the high-priest bade him pursueafter them, he marched apace, with four hun­dred men, after the enemy. And when hewas come to a certain brook called Besor,and had met with* an Egyptian, who wasalmost dead with want and famine; (for hehad continued wandering about without food,in the wilderness three days;) he first of allgave him refreshments, and then asked towhom he belonged, and whence he came?The man told him, he was an Egyptian bybirth, and was left behind by his master, be­cause he was so sick and weak that he couldnot follow him. He also informed him, thathe was one of those that had burnt and plun­dered not only other parts of Judea, butZiklag also. So David made use of him as aguide, to find out the Amalekites; and whenhe had overtaken them, as they lay scatteredabout on the ground, some at dinner, somedisordered and inebriated with wine; and intheir fruition of the spoils and their prey, hefell upon them on the sudden, and made agreat slaughter. For they were naked, andexpected no such thing; but had betakenthemselves to drinking and feasting; and sothey were all easily destroyed. Now someof them that were overtaken as they lay atthe table, were slain in that posture. Othersof them were slain as they were drinking toone another, in their cups; and some of themwhen their satiety had made them fall asleep.And for so many as had time to put on alltheir armour, they slew them with the swordwith no less ease than they did those thatwere naked. And for the partizans of David,they continued also the slaughter from thefirst hour of the day to the evening, so thatthere was not above four hundred of theAmalekites left, and they only escaped bygetting upon their dromedaries and camels.Accordingly David recovered not only all the * 1 Sam. xxx. 1 other spoils which the enemy had carriedaway; but his wives also, and the wives of hiscompanions. But when they were come tothe place where they had left the two hun­dred men, who were not able to follow them,but were left to take care of the stuff; thefour hundred men did not think fit to divideamong them any other parts of what theyhad gotten, or of the prey, since they did notaccompany them; but pretended to be feeble,and did not follow them in the pursuit of theenemy; but said, they should be contentedto have safely recovered their wives. Yetdid David pronounce, that this opinion oftheirs was evil and unjust, and that when Godhad granted them such a favour, that theyhad avenged themselves on their enemies,and had recovered all that belonged to them­selves, they should make an equal distribu­tion of what they had gotten to all, becausethe rest had tarried behind to guard theirstuff! And from that time this law obtainedamong them;—that those who guarded thestuff} should receive an equal share with thosethat fought in the battle.f Now when Davidwas come to Ziklag, he sent portions of thespoils to all that had been familiar with him,and to his friends, in the tribe of Judah. Andthus ended the affairs of the plundering ofZiklag, and of the slaughter of the Amalekites.Now upon the Philistines joining battle,there followed a sharp engagement, and thePhilistines became the conquerors, and slewa great number of their enemies. But Saulthe king of Israel, and his sons, fought coura­geously, and with the utmost alacrity; asknowing that their entire glory lay in nothingelse but dying honourably; and exposingthemselves to the utmost danger from theenemy; for they had nothing else to hope for.So they brought upon themselves the wholepower of the enemy till they were encom­passed round and slain, but not before theyhad killed many of the Philistines. Now thesons of Saul were Jonathan, Abinadab, andMalchishua. And when these were slain, themultitude of the Hebrews were put to flight;and all was disorder, confusion, and slaughter,upon the Philistines pressing in upon them.But Saul himself fled, having a strong body"of soldiers about him; and upon the Philis- t 1 Sam: xxx. 25.