OCR Output aN. 1099-1 213 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. a certain place called the New Place,* be­longing to Ziph. Where Jonathan the sonof Saul came to him, and saluted him, andexhorted him to be of good courage, and tohope well as to his future condition, and notto despond at his present circumstances; forthat he should be king, and have all the forcesof the Hebrews under him; but told him,that such happiness uses to come with greatlabour and pains. They also took oaths, thatthey would all their lives long continue ingood will and fidelity one to another: andDavid called God to witness, as to what exe­cration he had made upon himself, if heshould transgress his covenant, and shouldchange to a contrary behaviour. So Jona­than left him there, having rendered his caresand fear somewhat lighter, and returnedhome. Now the men of Ziph, to gratify Saul,informed him that David abode with them;and assured him that if he would come tothem, they would deliver him up; for that ifthe king would seize on the straits of Ziph,David could not escape to any other people.So the king commended them, and confessedthat he had reason to thank them, becausethey had given him information of his enemy:and he promised that it should not be longere he would requite their kindness. Healso sent men to seek for David, and to searchthe wilderness wherein he was, resolving tofollow them in person. Accordingly theywent before the king, to search for David;and used endeavours not only to shew their food will to Saul, by informing him whereis enemy was, but to evince the same moreplainly , by delivering him up into his power.But a failure attended the unjust and wickeddesires of these men, who, while they under­went no hazard by not discovering such anambition of revealing this to Saul, yet didthey falsely accuse, and promise to deliverup a man beloved of God, and one that wasunjustly sought for to be put to death, andwho might otherwise have lain concealed;and this out of flattery and expectation of gain from the king. For when David wasapprised of the malignant intentions of themen of Ziph, and of the approach of Saul,he left the straits of that country, and fled tothe great rock that was in the wilderness ofMaon. Hereupon Saul hastened to pursue himthither. For as he was marching, he learnedthat David was gone away from the straitsof Ziph; and Saul removed to the otherside of the rock. But the report that thePhilistines had again made an incursion intothe country of the Hebrews, called Saul ano­ther way, from the pursuit of David, whenhe was ready to be caught; for he returnedback again to oppose those Philistines, whowere naturally their enemies; as judging itmore necessary to avenge himself of them,than to continue the pursuit of a single enemy,and to overlook the ravage that was made inthe land. By this means David unexpectedly escapedout of the danger he was in, and came to thestraits of Engedi. And when Saul had driventhe Philistines out of the land, there camesome messengers who told him, that Davidabode within the bounds of Engedi. So hetook three thousand chosen men, that werearmed, and hastened towards him. And whenhe was not far from those places, he saw adeep and hollow cave by the way side. Itwas open to a great length and breadth; andthere it was that David, with his four hundredmen, were concealed. Saul, having occasionto enter here alone, was seen by one of Da­vid's companions, and he that saw him said,that David had now, by God's providence, anopportunity of avenging himself of his adver­sary, and advised him to cut off his head, andso deliver himself out of that tedious wander­ing condition, and the distress he was in.David accordingly arose up, and cut off theskirt of Saul's garment; but he soon repentedof what he had done; and said it was not rightto kill him that was his master, and one whomGod had thought worthy of the kingdom.f * The name of this place, Kaivij, or the New Place, asit is both in the Septuagint and Josephus, 1 Sam. xxii. 15.is justly supposed by Dr. Hudson to have risen from adifferent reading of the Hebrew word: Bahadesa, in thenew place, instead of that in our present Hebrew, Baho-resa, in the wood. Which was the original reading canhardly now be determined. Only two of the best copiesmay well be preferred to one copy, which is not so good. t If it be asked, how David could do this without Saul'sperceiving it? the answer might be, that this possiblymight be some upper loose garments, which Saul mightput off, and lay aside at some distance from him, upon thisoccasion; and that as there were several rooms, or par­ticular cells in these large caverns, which might have se­cret passages from one to another, Saul, at the mouth ofone of these cells, might lay down his upper garment, U u 2