OCR Output 638 IXATAEA. not present at Sal amis, us they had to leave thefleet in order to remove their families and propertyfrom the city, in consequence of tbe approach ot'thePersian army. (Herod, viii. 44.) Upon the arrivalof the Persians shortly afterwards their city wasburnt to the ground. (Herod, viii. 50.) In the fol­lowing year (b. c. 470) their territory was the sceneof the memorable battle, which delivered Greecefrom the Persian invaders. The history of this battleillustrated so completely the topography of the Pla-taean territory, that it is necessary to give an accountof the different positions taken by the contending forces(Sec accompanying -Map). Mardonius proceeded fromAttica into Boeotia across Mount l'anies by the passofDeceleia, and took up a position on the bank of theAsopus. where he caused a fortified camp to be con­structed of 10 stadia square. The situation waswell selected, since lie bad the friendly city of Thebesin his rear, ami was thus in DO danger of fallingshort of provisions. (Herod, ix. 15.) The Grecianarmy crossed over from Attica by Mt. Cithaeron;but as Pansanias did not choose to expose bis troopsto tbe attacks of the Persian cavalry on the plain,he stationed them on the slopes of the mountain,near Krytbrae, where the ground was rugged anduneven. (See Map, First Position.) This positiondid not. however, altogether preserve them; but, inan attack made by the Persian cavalry, a laxly of:tiM) Athenians repulsed them,and killed their leaderMasistiua. This success encouraged Pausanias to descend into the t(as it was better suposition. Martbiiposition along the iby Mysiae, he dnbank of the Asopheight and partlybeing near the fouthe chapel of the 1ix. 25—30.) Maito them on the othSecond Position.)position for someto begin the attackat a distance withaltogether from wtthe Persian caval:visions proceedingoccasion drove awcupied the right wand succeeded in cbeen of late the oiand as their grouresolved to retreatIsland (yij<Tos), atpresent position, athe town of Plataecalled an island, wprised between Uwhich, rising fr m BATTLK OF 1'I.ATAEA, a. Persian*. 6. Athenians. c. I •acrdurmontans, d. Variuiu tirctk. allies. I. Flfft Position ot-cupied by the oppesiou armies.II. Second Position.111. Third Position. A.It.C.1>.I..