OCR Output S22 ROMA. TOMli OF MKTKLLA CAKCIUA. Pom us Cii/wis, ami Pomi*s Coiisifkif.s. TheDomna Parthorum and Cilonis seem to have beensome of those palaces erected by Septimius Severus,and presented to his friends. (Aur. Vict. Epit. 20.)Cilon is probably the same person mentioned by Pion(Ixxvii. 4), Spartian (Coroc. 3), and in the Digest(i. 12. l,and 15. 4.) The Part hi seem to have beenParthian nobles, whom S'verus brought with him toHome, and of whose luxurious habits Tertullian hasdrawn a characteristic picture. (De Hab. Mul. ".)The Piuvata AiutiAM and the DoMUS Cormfi-ens (Corniticiae) mentioned in the Nvtitia, layduubtless close together. The former must have beenthe private residence of Hadrian, where M. Antoninusdwelt after his adoption by that emperor. (Jul.Capit. M. Anton. 5.) M. Antoninus had ■ youngersister named Anna Cornifieia, to whom the housebearing her name doubtless belonged. {Ib. c. 1;Prcller, Iiegioncn, p. 198.) XI. The Esquilink and its Neighbourhood- The Esquiline {EsquiUae, or in a more ancientform Exquffiae) was originally covered with a thickWood, of which, in the time of Varro, the only re­mains were a few sacred groves of inconsiderableextent, the rest of the hill having been cleared andcovered with buildings. (Varr, L.L. v. § 49,Mull.) Yet the derivation of the name of the hillfrom attculetum seems to hnve been unknown to an­tiquity, and is a mere conjecture of Mailer's {adfoe.); the ancient etymology being derived eitherfrom excubiae regis, because Servius Tullius hadfixed his abode there, or from excolere, because thehill was first cleared and settled by that king.(Varr. /. c.; Ov. East. hi. 245.) We have already described the Esquiline asthrowing out two tongues or projections, calledrespectively, in the more ancient times of Koine,Opph s and Cisi'ius. Their relative situation is in­dicated in the following passage of Festus; "Op-pms autem appellatus est, ut ait Varro rerumhumanarutu L. viii., ab Opilft Oppio Tiwculano,qui cum praesidio Tusculanorum missus ad liomamtnendam, dura Tullus Hostihus Veios oppugnaiet,consederat in Carinis et ibi castra habuerat. Simi­ liter Cispinra a Laevio Cispio AnagTuno,dem rci causa earn partem E^uiU&ram,ad victim I'atrieium versus, in qua region*Mefitis, tuilus eat" (p. 348, MJli.Ylearn that the Cispius was thai projectiaadjoined the Vicus Patricks, andquently have been the northern one, |Patricius is known to have correspondedmodern streets called Via i rbaua and i *;denziana, which traverse the valley lying *ViminaJ and the* Esquiline. The fallowingof Paulus Piaconus shows that the Yicosmust have lain in a valley: "Patricias idictus eo, quod ibi patiicii h&biiaverunt,Servio Tullio, ut, si quid molirenturex locis superioribus opprimerentur'Mull.); and its identity with the modernmentioned appears from Anasl&sios (Tatu Hie ex ro^atu beatae Pntssedis dedicariftthermas Novati in vico Patricii insuae sanctae Potenlianae" (p. 14). This5. Pudemiana still exists in the street ofname. It is also mentioned by theEinsiedlen, in whose time must of thebore their ancient names, as beingtricii." That the Cispius was the smallernorthern tongue likewise appears frjtnbooks of the Argives (op. Varr. L^L±which, in proceeding northwards from thefirst name the Oppius, which had tsarchapels, and then the Cispius, which,smaller bill, had only two, namely, thetelius and the Aedes JunonU Lacunae. From the passage of Fe>tu* justpears that part of Mons Oppius bonCARINAS; and this appellation <when the names Oppius and CUptus ii of use and been superseded by th*! Effpi'diae. Vet it is one of the Ivanan topography whether the C| part of the hill. The Italians still Ii eient opinion that under th.it name Ihended the low ground from the >«j torium to the Colosseum. Beckerseq.) partly adopted this riew, bat ml ta*>