OCR Output 320 MELITA. Jff.LIN0rH.VGI. (//. ii. 717). It was situated upon the sea-coast(H.Tod. vii. 188; Scylax, p. 25; Apoll. Rhod. i.591'), andis described byLivy(xliv. 13) us situatedat tlie roots of Mt. Ossa, and by Strain (ix. p. 443)as lying in the gulf between Ossa and Pelium.Leake therefore places it near Atjhia {NorthernGreece, vol. ir. p. 414). Meliboea was taken andplundered by the Romans under Cn. Octavius, b. c168. (Lir. xliv 46: Meliboea is also mentionedby Strab. ix. p. 436; Stepb. B. >. v.; Mela, ii. 3;Plin. it. 9. b. 16.) The Meliboean purple is said by Lucretius (ii.499; Virg. Aen. v. 251) to have derived its namefrom this town. Many modem writers, however,suppose the name to have come from the smallisland Meliboea at the mouth of the Orontes inSyria ; but there is no reason for this supposition, asthe shellfish from which the purple dye is obtainedis found in the present day off the coast of Thessaly. 2. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessaly, is conjec­tured by Leake to be represented by Voiruda. (Liv.xxxvi. 13; Leake. Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 536.) MELIXOTHAGI (MtAico^Kryoi), a people ofThrace upon the coast of the Euxine, near Salmy-dessus. (Xen. Anab. vii. 5. § 12 ; Theopomp. ap.Steph. B. t. r.) They are, perhaps, the same peopleas the Asti (Affrol) whom Strabo places in theaame neighbourhood (vii. pp. 319, 320). ME'LITA (M<A(r»: Kth. M«Aitb7oi, Melitensis:Malta), an island in the Mediterranean sea, to the S.of Sicily, from the nearest point of which it is dis­tant 47 geogr. miles, but 55 from cape Pachynum.Strabo gives this last distance as 88 miles, which isgreatly overstated; while Pliny calls it 84 milesdistant from Cainarina, which equally exceeds thetruth. (Strab. vi. p. 277; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.) Theisland is about 17 miles long, and between 9 and 10in breadth, and is separated only by a narrow channelfrom the adjoining island of Gaulos, now Goto.Notwithstanding its small extent, the opportune situ­ation of Melita in the channel between Sicily andAfrica, and the excellence of its harbours, musthave early rendered it a place of importance as acommercial station, and it was occupied, probably ata very early period, by a Phoenician colony. (Diod.v. 12.) The date of this is wholly uncertain, andit is called by later writers for the most part aCarthaginian settlement (Scyl. p. 50. § 110;Steph. B. s. u.), which it certainly became in aftertimes; but there can be no doubt that Dindorus isright in describing it as originally a Phoenician one,established by that people as an emporium and har­bour of refuge during their long voyages towardsthe west. The same author tells us that in con­sequence of this commercial traffic, the colony roserapidly to prosperity, which was increased by theindustry of its inhabitants, who practised variouskinds of manufactures with great success. (Diod.I. c) But notwithstanding this account of its pros-l«rity we have scarcely any knowledge of its his­tory. The notice of it by Scylax as a Carthaginiancolony, seems to prove that it had not in his dayreceived a Greek settlement; and indeed there is notrace in history of its having ever fallen into thehands of the Greeks of Sicily, though its coins, aswell as inscriptions, indicate that it received a strongtincture of Greek civilisation; and at a later periodit appear* to have been in a great measure llcllen-i»e»t. Sunc of these inscriptions point to a closeconnection with Syracuse in particular, but of theorigin aud nature of this wc have no account. (Boeckh, Corp. Inter. Gr. 5752, Ac.) In theFirst Punic War we find Melita still in the hands ofthe Carthaginians; and though it was ravaged iaB. c. 257 by a Koman fleet under Atiliua Rernlo*.it docs not appear that it fell permanently mu> thehands of the Romans. At the outbreak of il*Second Punic War it was held by a Carthaginiangarrison under llamilcar, the son of Giago, wan,however, surrendered the island to Tib. Sem promos,with a Roman fleet, B.C. 218 (Liv. xxi. 51); aadfrom this time it continued without intermia-mnsubject to the Roman rule. It was annexed to theprovince of Sicily, and subject to the government ofthe praetor of that island. During the perkd thatthe Mediterranean was so severely infested by theCilician pirates, Melita was a favourite resort ofthose corsairs, who often made it their winter-qaar-ters. (Cic. IVrr. iv. 46, 47.) Notwithstandingthis it appears to have been in the days of Ciceroin a flourishing condition, and the great orator morethan once during periods of civil disturbance* en­tertained the project of retiring thither into a kiadof voluntary exile. (Cic ad Alt. iii. 4, x. 7, 8, 9,&c.) The inhabitants of Melita were at this periodfamous for their skill in manufacturing a kind offine linen, or rather cotton, stuffs, which appear tohave been in great request at Rome, and were gene­rally known under the name of "vestia Melitensia."(Cic. Terr. ii. 72, iv. 46; Diod. v. 12.) There ia nodoubt that these were manufactured from the cotton.which still forms the staple production of the island.Melita is celebrated in sacred history at the seen*of the shipwreck of St. Pan! on his voyage toRome, A.D. 60. {Act. Apoit. xxviii.) Tlie errorof several earlier writers, who have transferred thisto the Melita on the E. coast of the Adriatic (nowMeleday, has evidently arisen from the vague u*eof the name of the Adriatic, which is employed inthe Acta of the Apostles (xxvii. 27), in the mannerthat was customary under the Roman Empire, ascorresponding to the Ionian and Sicilian eea* ofgeographers. [Adhiaticxm JUue.] The wholecourse and circumstances of the voyage leave nodoubt that the Melita in question was no other themthe modern Malta, where a bay called St. PauTa Hayis still pointed out by tradition as the landittz-plsre ofthe Apostle. (The question is fully examined anddiscussed by Mr. J. Smith, in his Voyage and Ship.tcreci o/St. Paid, 8vo. I.ond. 1848; also in Cucybeareand Howson's Life of St. Paul, vol ii. p. 353, 4c)No other mention is found of Melita during tawperiod of the Roman Empire, except in the geo­graphers and the Maritime Itinerary, in which lastthe name already appears corrupted into its modernform of Malta. (Strab. vi. p. 277; Plin. iii- 8. a.13; Mel. ii. 7. § 18; Plol. iv. 3. § 37; Itm. Mm-riL p. 518; Sil. lul. xiv. 251.) After the fail ofthe Itoman Empire it fell for a time into the handsof the Vandals; but was recovered from thetn byIlelisarius in A. D. 533 (Procop. B. 1'. i. 14). andappears to have continued from this time lul^n: uthe Byxantine empire, until it wai conquered bythe Arabs in a. i>. 870. The present population is principally deriT-«dfrom an Arabic stick; hut it is jirubable thatthe Arab conquerors here, as wtU a* in Africa*have been to a great extent ama'ramated withthe previously existing Punic pupalstiua. lawinscriptions discovered at Malta aufikieollv |arovwthat tho Greek language was at on* liana ia has­