OCR Output CHAP. 25: ROMAN HISTORY. 315 Next day the law was accepted by the unanimousconsent of the people. 'To convince you, Romans, that'I am in earnest, when I express so great a dislike to'magistracies of long continuance,'! this instant resign'my own.' Having thus divested himself of his ownoffice,. and so put an end to one, and limited another, hewas conducted buck to his house by the multitude, withloud acclamations of joy. Mamercus's conduct, inabridging the duration of a Roman office, was highly re­sented by the censors, who degraded him from his tribe,and saddled him with a tribute eight times his usual pro­portion. It is said of /Emilius, that he bore all this witha remarkable degree of fortitude, disregarding the indig­nity, out of respect to the cause: and though the senatorshad no great relish for the new law, they were far frombeing pleased with this instance of despotism in the cen­sors, from a very natural reflection, that though theymight themselves be possessed of the same power, theymight be oftener, and much longer subject to it. How­ever, it is certain, that such was the indignation of thepeople, that butJ'or the interposition of Mamercus him­self, the censors would have been torn to pieces. CHAP. XXV. Complaints of the Tribunes, that they were neglected by thepeople. A pestilence rages. X HE tribunes of the people, by the constant ha­rangue*, in opposition to the election of consuls, at lastcarried, that military tribunes, with consular power,should be chosen for the ensuing year, after matterswere almost brought to an inter-regnum. Nevertheless,they obtained none of the reward they expected, for nota single Plebeian was elected. They were all Patri-cions, namely, M. Fabius Vibulanus, M. Fossus, L. Ser-gius Ftdenas. A pestilence which raged this year, gateihem a respite from oiher troubles. A temple was vowedto Apollo for the health of the people. The duumvirstried many expedients presc-ibed in their books, for ap­peasing the anger of the gods, and'rescuing .the people from the plague. But, after all, the distemper made