OCR Output TREIA. K'25 TRERES. uffenates," PJin. it 1!. s. 17). Its cite is dearlyin] at Monte Leone, sometimes called Monktone delta Sabina, a village about 2 miles on the:.-it of the Via Solaria, between Otteria Nuova.ui I'oyyio S. Lorenzo. Here there are considerable.uni, including those of a theatre, of thermae orithi, and portions of the ancient pavement. Seve-il inscriptions have also been found here, some ofli ch hive the name of the people, " Plebs Trebu-iaa," "Trebulani Mutuscani," and "Trebulautlat," so that no donbt can reinaia of their attribu-na. (Chanpy, ilaison d Horace, vol iii. pp. 93—6: Orell. /Wr.923, 3442, 3963.) As this Menuj hive been much the most considerable place ofv two, it is probably tliat meant by Strabo, who.er.tiuns Trebula without any distinctive adjunctut in conjunction with Eretum (Smb. v. )i. 228).ix Liber Coloniarum also mentions a "Tribule,luuxipium" (p. 268) which is probably the samel»t Martial also alludes to Trebula as situatedn»»ig cold aud damp mountain valleys (v. 72), but: i» nut certain which of the two places he here refers • Virgil speaks of Mutusca as abounding in olives • uurifcreeque Muluscae," A en. vii. 711), which isnil the case with the neighbourhood of Monte•a, and a village near it beam in consequencelie name of Olivetti. 2. Thkhi'LA Suffknas, the name of which isii.iwu only from Piny, is of very uncertain site,'iiuipy would place it at Mocea SinibaLli, in thealley of the 7«rtrao, but this is mere conjecture,imttani on the other hand fixes it on a hill near"now, between Rieti and Term, where there aread to be distiucl traces of an ancient town. (Cliaupy,c; Gaattaui Man. delta Sabina, vol. i. p. 190.)I u probable tliat the Tribula (TpiCoAa) of Diotiy-iiii. mentioned by him among the towns assignedt Varro to the Aborigines (Dionys. i. 14) may beix sunt with the Trebula Suffering of Pliny. Intin case we know that it could not be far from[sue. [E. U. B.] HIEIA (ElA. Treiensis: Ru. near Trrja), a inu-icipal town of Picenum, situated on the let! bank ofriver Potentia, about 9 miles below Septempeda& Sevarmo) and 5 above Kicina. Pliny is ther.h geographer that mentions it; but it is probableiut the Tpalara of Ptolemy is only a corruption ofa came. (Mia. iii. 13. a. IB; Ptol. iii. 1. § 52.) Thenaeoaea are enumerated by Pliny among the mu-iciuil oosununities of Picenrun, and the municipalink ef the town is further attested by several in--nptions. (Orell. Inter. 516, 3899.) It seems in-*wi to have been a considerable place. The Iti-wary of Antoninus places it on the branch of theia Klaminia which led direct to Ancona: it was miles from Septempeda and 18 from Auxiinuin.Itiu-AnL p. 312.) Cluverius says tliat he coulduJ do trace either of the place or the name; butbe ruins were pointed out by HolsU-nius as stilltilling on tlie left bank of the l'otema, at the•t of the hUl occupied by the village of Montecchio..> Utter place has since adopted the ancient namet Trrja, and having been augmented by the popu->:.'jr. ot several neighbouring villages, is now be­sets a considerable town. (Cluver. lial. p. 738;loUten. Aot ad Chit. p. 136.) [E. H. B.l TUEMERUS INS. [Diomkdkak Insular.] lKE'MlTHUS (Tpfuieovi, Stepli. B. «. r.; Iff.iteWi, Ptol. v. 14. § 6 ; TpiuuSot, Constant, deThem. i. li, p. 39, ed. Bonn ; TpemtowToie, llierocl.707: Ltk TmiusWiw, Tocui^oToAirnt), a town in the interior of Cyprus, was" the seat of abishopric and a pUco of some importance in the By­zantine times. According to the Pentingcr Table itwas 18 miles from Salamis, 24 from Citium, and 24from Tamassus. Stcphanus B. calls it a village ofCyprus, and derives it* name from the turpentinetrees (rtpitirtoi) which grew in its neighbourhood.(Engcl, Kyproi, vol. i. p. 148.) TRE'MULA, a town in Mauritania Tingitana.(//in. Ant. p. 24.) Variously idcutificd with JCznd-tchen and Sot el Campa. [T. II. D.] TREPONTIUM or TKIPUNTIUM, a place onthe AppUn Way near the entrance of the PontineMarshes, 4 miles nearer Rome than Forum Appii.It is not mentioned as u station in the Itineraries,but we leant from an inscription of the time ofTrajan that it was from thence the part of theroad which was restored by that emperor began.This important work, as we are informed by anotherinscription, was continued for nineteen »is/e#, acircumstance tliat explains the origin of the nameof Dkckknovium, which occurs at a later periud inconnection with the Pontine Marshes, l'rocopiuscalls the Deccnnovium a river; but it is evidentthat it was in reality an artificial cut or cuual, suchas must always have accoiiijauiied the highroadthrough these marshes, and as we know alreadyexisted in the days of Horace from Korum Appii.The importance of this work will account for thecircumstance tliat we find the Pontine Marshesthemselves called by Cassiodorus 44 Deceunovii I'a-ludes." (Cassiod. I'ur. ii. 32, 33; Procop. B. G. i.11.) The site of Tn-pontium is clearly marked attlie distance of 39 miles from Rome, by the name of7'orre di Treponti, together with the remains oi the3 ancient bridges, from which it derives its name(Cliaupy, Maiton d'J/orace, vol. iii. pp. 387—392;D'Auville, Anaiytt de lltalie, pp. 184—187.) The inscriptions above cited are given by Sira Hoare, Clou. Tour, vol i. pp. 97, 98; and bythe Aboe" Cliaupy (i c). The name of TpawoV-tmmv, found in Strabo (v. p. 237) among the citieson the left of the Appiau Way, can liardly be otherthan a corruption of Trepouuum, but it is whollyout of place in that passage, and is supposed byKramer to be an interpolation. [E. H. B.j TRERES (Tpypti), a people repeatedly mentionedby Strabo, generally as a tribe of, or at least, saclosely connected with, the Cimmerii, but in a fewpassages as Thracians. They are not named byHomer or Herodotus. Strabo was evidently unde­cided whether to regard them as a distinct race, oraa identical with the Cimmerii, in whose companythey several times made destructive inroads intoAsia Minor. "The Cimmerii, whom they nameTreres also, or some tribe of them, often overranthe southern shores of the Euxine and the adjuiningcountries, sometimes throwing themselves upon thePaphlagonians, at other times upon the Phrygians,at the time when they say Midas died from drinkingbull's blood. And Lygdami* led his army as faras Lydia and Ionia, and took Sardes, but perishedin Cilicia. And the Cimmerii and Treres oftenmode such expeditions. But they say tliat theTreres and Cobus [their leader] were at lastdriven out [of Asia] by Madys, the king of tlieScythians."* (Strab.i. p. 61). "Calliatbenes states * The reading in the tut is wro Moooot tootw Kiujuplur 6a<riAwf; but as just before wefind MdJvoi too XkuOuxov, we can have no hesiu-