OCR Output 474 DISSERTATION I. brother of our Lord, and bishop of Jerusalem, was throwndown [from the temple,] and slain of them by stoning. About A. D. 740. Anastasias Abbas contr. Jud.— NowJosephus, an author and writer of your own, says of Christ,that he was a just and good man, showed and declared so tobe by divine grace, who gave aid to many by signs andmiracles. About A. Z>. 790. Greorgius Syncellus Ohron. p. 339.—These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for Jamesthe Just, who was the brother of Jesus that was called Christ,on the account that they had slain him who was a most right­eous person. Now as Ananus, a person of that character,thought ho had a proper opportunity, because Festus wasdead, and Albinus was but upon the road, so he assemblesthe sanhedrim of judges, and brings before them James, thebrother of Jesus, who was called Christ, and some of his com­panions, and when he had formed an accusation against them,as breakers of the law, he delivered them to be stoned; but asfor those that seemed the most equitable of the citizens, andthose that were the most uneasy at the breach of the laws,they disliked what was done. They also sent to the king[Agrippa] desiring him to send to Ananus that he should actso no more, for that what he had already done could not bejustified, &c. About A. D. 850. Johan. Malela Chron. lib. x.—Fromthat time began the destruction of the Jews, as Josephus, thephilosopher of the Hebrews, hath written; who also said this,that from the time the Jews crucified Christ, who was a goodand a righteous man (that is, if it be fit to call such a one aman, and not a God,) the land of Judea was never free fromtrouble. These things the same Josephus the Jew has relatedin his writings. About A. D. 800. Photius Cod. lib. xlviii.—I have readthe treatise of Josephus about the universe, whose title I haveelsewhere read to be, Of the Substance of the Universe. Itis contained in two very small treatises. He treats of theorigin of the world in a brief manner. However, he speaksof the divinity of Christ, who is our true God, in a way very