OCR Output AK. 1108.] 195 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ■as* panies, and took as many roads, and laidwaste the country of the Hebrews;* whileSaul and his son Jonathan saw what wasdone, but were not able to defend the land;as having no more than six hundred men with'them. But as he, and his son, and Ahiah thehigh-priest, who was of the posterity of Eli,were sitting upon a pretty high hill, andseeing the land laid waste, they were greatlydisturbed at it. Now Saul's son agreed withhis armour-bearer, that they would go pri­vately to the enemies' camp, and make atumult, and a disturbance among them. Andwhen the armour-bearer had readily pro­mised to follow, whithersoever he should leadhim, though he should be obliged to die inthe attempt, Jonathan made use of the youngman's assistance, and descended from the hill,and went to their enemies. Now the enemies'camp was upon a precipice, which had threetops, that ended in a small but sharp and longextremity; while there was a rock that sur­rounded them, like lines made to prevent theattacks of an enemy. There it happened,that the out-guards of the camp were neg­lected; because of the natural security of theplace, and because they thought it altogetherimpossible, not only to ascend up to the campon that quarter, but so much as to come nearit. As soon therefore as they came to thecamp, Jonathan encouraged his armour-bearer, and said to him, "Let us attack ourenemies; and if when they see us, they bid us come up to them; take that for a signal ofvictory. But if they say nothing, as not in­tending to invite us to come up, let us re­turn back again."f So when they were ap­proaching to the camp, just after break ofday, and the Philistines saw them, they saidto one another, "The Hebrews come out oftheir dens and caves:" and they said to Jona­than, and to his armour-bearer, "Come on,ascend up to us, that we may inflict a justpunishment upon you for your rash attempt."So Saul's son accepted that invitation; asindicative of victory, and immediately cameout of the place whence they were seen bytheir enemies: so he changed his place, andcame to the rock, which had none to guard it,because of its own strength. From thencethey crept up with great labour and difficulty,and overcame by force the nature of theplace, till they were able to fight with theirenemies. So they fell upon them,}: as theywere asleep, and slew about twenty of them;and thereby filled them with disorder, andsurprise; insomuch that some of them threwaway their armour, and fled; but the greatestpart not knowing one another, because theywere of different nations, suspected eachother to be enemies; (for they did not ima­gine that there were only two of' the Hebrewsthat came up,) and so they fought one againstanother. And some of them died in the battle,and some as they were flying away werethrown headlong from the rock.|| a matter, in so short a time, to recover a trade that waslost; especially among a people that had no iron-mines,and were so wholly addicted to the feeding of cattle, thatthey made no account of any mechanical art. In the fa­mous victory which they gained over Sisera, we are told,that there was not a shield or spear seen among fiftythousand men of Israel, Judg. v. 8. but notwithstandingthis, they had bows and arrows, and slings, which the menof Gibeah could manage to a wonderful advantage, Judg.xx. 16. And besides these, the Israelites, upon this oc­casion, might convert their instruments of husbandry, theirhatchets, their spades, their forks, their mattocks, &c. intoinstruments of war; a much better shift than what weread of some, who, in ancient times, had no other armsthan clubs and sharpened stakes, hardened in the fire. Non jam certamine agrestiStipitibus duris agitur, sudibnsque praeustis. Virgil, Jlneid, 7. B. * About an. 1108. t 1 Sam. xiv. 9, 10. J This action of Jonathan's, considered in itself, wasdoubtless a very rash attempt, and contrary to the lawsof war, which prohibit all under command (as he was)voL. U—NOS. 17 & 18. from engaging the enemy, or entering upon any enter­prise, without the general's order: but what may veryjustly be said in excuse of it is,—That he had a divineincitation to it, which he might probably feel upon thesight of the Philistines appearing as if they intended toassault Gibeah, and upon the information which he mightreceive of the great spoil which the three parties made ofthe poor people in the country. Patrick's Comment. B.|| How two men could put the whole army into such aconsternation, may seem somewhat extraordinary; but itshould be considered, that Jonathan and his armour-bearer, climbing up a way that was never attempted be­fore, might come upon them unawares, and surprise them:that this action might happen, as Josephus thinks, early inthe morning, when a great part of the Philistines' armywas asleep; that even, had they been all awake, Jonathanmight have so posted himself, (as Horatius Codes did ona bridge,) so as to be able to maintain his pass against allthe force of the enemy; that those who made at him, (asonly one perhaps could at a time,) he with one strokemight lay flat on the ground, and his armour-bearer imme­diately despatch them; that the rest, seeing tbem act thugintrepidly, might take them for two scouts, or van-couriersonly of a great army that was coming up, and ready to fallSs