OCR Output LUCANIA. LUCANIA. 209 the Samnitcs, preserved a hostile attitude when allliic other nations of Italy had already submitted andrevived the Human franchise. (Appian, B. C. i.39, 51. 53.) In the civil war between Marios andSulla, which immediately followed, the Lucanians, aswell as the Samnitcs, actively espoused the causeof the Marian party, and a Lucanian legion foughtin [he great battle at the Colline Gale. They incimsequence were exposed to the full vengeance ofthe conqueror; and Lucania, as well as Samnium,wa* laid waste by Sulla in a manner that it neverrecovered. The remaining inhabitants were admittedto the Roman citizenship, and from this time theI.rjcanians ceased to be a people, and soon lost alltraces of distinct nationality. (Appian, IS. C. i. 90—9.1, 96; Strab. vL pp. 253, 254.) Of Lucania under the Roman government webur but little; but it is certain that it had falleninto a state of complete decay. The Greek cities oniii coasts, once so powerful and flourishing, hadinnk into utter insignificance, and the smaller townsof the interior were poor and obscure places. (Strab.i c.) Nor is there any appearance that it ever re­ndered from this state of depression under theliirnan Kinpire. The Liber Colotiiarum mentionsonly eight towns in the whole province, and allof these were in the subordinate condition of "prae-ferturae." {Lib. Colon, p. 209.) The malariawhich now desolates its coasts, must have begun toict a* soon as the population had disappeared; andthe monntain region of the interior was apparentlythen, u at the present day, one of the wildest regionsof Italy. Large tracts were given up to pasture,while extensive forests afforded subsistence to vastbrnls of swine, the flesh of which formed an import-aril part of the supplies of the Imperial City. Themountain forests were also favourite resorts of wildbars, and Contained abundance of bears, which weresent from thence to the amphitheatres at Koine.(Hot. Sot ii. 3. 234, 8. 6; Martial, de Spect. 8;Van. I.. !,'.. i 100.) Lucania was comprisedtogether with Bruttium in the third region ofAugustus, and the two provinces continued to beuniied for administrative purposes throughout theperiod of the Roman Empire. Even after the fallaf the Western Empire, we meet with mention of the"Corrector Lucaniae et Bruttiorum." LtK-ania long continued to acknowledge the supre-™<7 of the Eastern Emperors; and the modernpntime of the Easilicata is supposed to havedtroed its name from the emperor Basilius II. in thelfth century. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 10; A'of. Dign. ii.a «4; Ore'll. Inter. 1074; Treb. Poll. Jetr. 24;P. Ihac ii. 17; Cassiod. Var. iii. 8, 46.) The physical characters of Lucania are almostwholly determined by the chain of the Apennines,which enters at its northern frontier, and from thencetartrses the province in its whole extent. ThesettMmtains form a lofty group or knot immediatelyen the frontiers of Samnium, and from thence thetaaio chain is continued nearly due S. to thefraWim of Bruttium; a little before reaching which,it rises again into the very lofty group of MonteJVIiao, the highest summit of which attains anNation of above 7000 feet. Throughout its coursethis chain approaches considerably nearer to thewaten than the eastern coast; but it is not till afterr*»i»t the frontier of Bruttium that it becomes aoaf^lete littoral chain, as it continues for a ccn-■aWmile distance. In the more northern part ofLxiiiU the space between the central chain and VOL IL the Tyrrhenian sea is almost filled up with rangesof lofty and rugged mountains, leaving only hereand there a small strip of plain on the tea-coast:but towards the eastward, the mountains sink muchmore gradually as they approach the gulf of Tareri-tum,constituting long ranges of hills, which graduallysubside into the broad strip of plain that borders thogulf the whole way from the mouth of the Siris(Sinno) to that of tho Bradanus. It is this tract ofplain, in many places marshy, and now desolate andunhealthy, that was celebrated in ancient times forits almost matchless fertility. (Archiloch. up. A then.xii. 25,) South of the river Siris. the offshoots ofthe Apennines, descending from the lofty group ofMonte Pollmo as a centre, again approach close tothe shore, filling up the greater part of the spacebetween the mouth of the Siris and that of theCrathis; but once more receding as they approachthe latter river, so as to leave a considerable tract offertile plain bordering its banks on both sides. The lofty group of mountains just noticed as situ­ated on the frontiers of Lucania and Samnium, sendsdown its waters towards both seas, and is the sourceof the most considerable rivers of Lucania. Of thesethe Silarus (Seta) flows to the gulf of Paestum,receiving in its course the waters of the Taxageii{Tanagro) and Cai-or {Colore'), both considerablestreams, which join it from the S. On the otherside, the Bradanus (Brtulano), which rises to theN. of Potentia, and the Casuentus (Batiento),which has its source in the Monti delia Maddaletia,a little to the S. of the same town, flow to the SK.,and pursue a nearly parallel course the whole wayto the gulf of Tarentum. The AciRts (Agri) andthe Siris (.SVnno), which rise in the central chainfurther to the S., have also a general SE. direction,and flow to the gulf of Tarentum. The Crathis,further down the same coast, which forms near itsmouth the limit between Lucania and Bruttium,belongs in the greater part of its course exclusivelyto the latter country. But the Sybaris, now theCoscile, a much less considerable stream, immediatelyto the N. of tin1 Crathis, belongs wholly to Lucania.The AcALANDitts (Calandro), which falls into thesea between the Sybaris and the Siris, is a vevytrifling stream. On the W. coast of Lucania, the onlyriver, besides the Silarus and its tributaries, worthyof notice, is the Laiis, or Lao, which forms thosouthern boundary of Lucania on this side. TimPyxus (Awenfo), flowing by the town of the samename (Baxentum), is but a trifling stream; anil theMelphes (Molpa), which enters the sea by the pro­montory of Palinnrus, though noticed by Pliny (iii. 5.s. 10), is not more considerable. The Hkles orElees, which gave name to Elea or Velia, is some­what more important, but by no means a largestream. [Velia.] The western coast of Lucania is marked by severalbold and prominent headlands, formed by the ridgesof the Apennines, which, as already stated, here de­scend quite to the sea, and end abruptly on the coast.The most northern of these, forming the southernlimit of the extensive gulf of Paestum, is called byLycophron Enipeus, but was more commonly knownas the Posidium or Posidonium Promontorinin.S. of this was the more celebrated promontory ofPalinurus, still called Cajx> di Palinwo, with aport of the same name; and beyond this, again, thopromontory of Pyxus (now Capo degli Infreiehi),which bounds the Culf of J'olicaetro on the W.Viewed on a larger scale, these three headlands may r