OCR Output 282 [book vra. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. also made aD. its vessel* of brass; the pots,and the shovels, and the basoiis, and besidesthese the snuffers, and the tongs; and all itsother vessels he made of such brass as wasin splendor and beauty like gold. The kingalso dedicated a * great number of tables;but one was large and made of gold; uponwhich they set the loaves of God, and hemade ten thousand more that resembledthem, but were done after another manner;upon which lay the vials, and the cups; thoseof gold were twenty thousand, those of silverwere forty thousand. He also made ten thou­sand candlesticks, according to the commandof Moses; one of which he dedicated for thetemple, that it might burn in the day-time,according to the law, and one table withloaves upon it, on the north side of the tem­ple, over against the candlestick: for this heset on the south side; but the golden altarstood between them. All these vessels werecontained in that part of the holy house whichwas forty cubits long; and were before theveil of that most secret place, wherein theark was to be set . The king also made eighty thousand pour­ing vessels, and a hundred thousand goldenvials, and twice as many silver vials. Ofgolden dishes, to offer kneaded fine flour atthe altar, there were eighty thousand, andtwice as many silver. Of large basons also,wherein they mixed fine flour with oil, sixtythousand of gold, and twice as many of silver.Of the measures like those which Mosescalled the hin, and the assaron,t there weretwenty thousand of gold, and twice as manyof silver. The other censers, in which theycarried fire from the great altar, to the littleone within the temple, were fifty thousand.The sacerdotal garments, which belonged tothe high-priest, with the long robes, theoracle, and the precious stones, were a thou­sand. But the crown, upon which Moseswrote the name of God, was only one; andhath remained to this day 4 He also madeten thousand sacerdotal garments of fine linen, with purple girdles, for every priest:and two hundred thousand trumpets, ac­cording to the command of Moses. Alsotwo hundred thousand garments of tine linenfor the singers, that were Levites. And hemade musical instruments, and such as wereinvented for singing of hymns, called IN a bisand Cinyrae, (psalteries and harps,) which,were made ot electrum, (the finest brass,)forty thousand. Solomon made all these things for thehonour of God, with great variety and mag­nificence; sparing no cost, but using all pos­sible liberality in adorning the temple: andthese things he dedicated to the treasure oiGod. He also placed a partition round aboutthe temple, winch in our own tongue we callGison; but it is called epiyxos by the Greeks:and he raised it up to the height of threecubits; and it was for the exclusion of themultitude from coming into the temple, andshewing that it was a place that was free andopen only for the priests. || He also builtbeyond this court a temple, whose figurewas that of a quadrangle, and erected for itgreat and broad cloisters: this was enteredby very high gates; each of which had itsfront exposed to one of the four winds, andwere shut by golden doors. Into this templeall the people entered that were distinguishedfrom the rest by being pure, and observant ofthe laws. But he made that temple whichwas beyond this a wonderful one indeed;and such as exceeds all description inwords: nay, if I may so say, is hardly be­lieved upon sight. For when he had filledup great valleys with earth, which on ac­count of their immense depth could not belooked on, when you bended down to seethem, without pain; and had elevated theground four hundred cubits, he made it tobe on a level with the top of the mountain,on which the temple was built: and by thismeans the outermost temple, which was ex­posed to the air, was §even with the templeitself. He encompassed this also with a * Of these prodigious and extravagant numbers, seethe description of the temple, chap. 13. t A tenth deal. { Of the golden plate on the high-priest's forehead thatwas in being in the days of Josephus, and a century ortwo at least later. See the note on III. 7. U When Josephus here speaks of the court of the priests, as inclosed, and kept distinct from the rest of thetemple, he does not mean to exclude the Levites, theirbrethren; who all ministered to the priests in that court,and ordinarily not elsewhere. § When Josephus here says, that the floor of the outer­most temple, or court of the Gentiles, was with vast labourraised to be even, or of equal height with the floor of the