OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLVI. rian provinces."1 The plains of the lower Hungary were1covered with the Avar horse, and a fleet of large boatswas built in the Hyrcinian wood, to descend the Danube,and to transport into the Save the materials of a bridge.But as the strong garrison of Singidunum, which com­manded the conflux of the two rivers, might have stop­ped their passage and baffled his designs, he dispelledtheir apprehensions by a solemn oath, that his viewswere not hostile to the empire. He swore by his sword,the symbol of the god of war, that he did not, as the ene­my of Rome, construct a bridge upon the Save. "If Iviolate my oath (pursued the intrepid Baian), may I my­self, and the last of my nation, perish by the sword? maythe heavens and fire, the deity of the heavens, fall uponour heads! may the forests and mountains bury us intheir ruins! and the Save returning, against the laws ofnature, to his source, overwhelm us in his angry waters!"After this barbarous imprecation, he calmly inquired,what oath was most sacred and venerable among theChristians, what guilt of perjury it was most dangerousto incur. The bishop of Singidunum presented the gos­pel, which the chagan received with devout reverence."I swear (said he) by the God who has spoken in thisholy book, that I have neither falsehood on my tongue,nor treachery in my heart." As soon as he rose fromhis knees, he accelerated the labour of the bridge, anddispatched an envoy to proclaim what he no longer wishedto conceal. "Inform the emperor (said the perfidiousBaian) that Sirmium is invested on every side. Advisehis prudence to withdraw the citizens and their effects,and resign a city which it is now impossible to relieve ordefend." Without the hope of relief, the defence ofSirmium was prolonged above three years; the wallswere still untouched; but famine was enclosed withinthe walls, till a merciful capitulation allowed the escape * Menander (in Excerpt. Legat. p. 126—132.174, 175.) describes the perjury ofBaian and the surrender of Sirmium. We have lost his account of the siege, which iscommended by Theopb jlact, lib. 1, c. 3. To )' oir»; Miraviv wtgifavei a-a^xq Sibj-j»8vt»i.