OCR Output kit. 710.] 305 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BOOK X. Containing an Interval of One Hundred and Eighty-two Years and a half. PROM THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES TO THE FIRST OF CYRUS. CHAP. I. o» Sennacherib's expedition against hezekiab; THE THREATENINGs OF RABSHAKEH J THE FAILURE OF THEEXPEDITION, AND THE SUBSEQUENT DEATH OF SENNA­CHERIB. IT was now the fourteenth year of thegovernment of Hezekiah, king of thetwo tribes, when Sennacherib, king of As­syria, made an expedition against him, witha great army, and took all the cities of thetribes of Judah and Benjamin by force.*And when he was ready to bring his armyagainst Jerusalem, Hezekiah sent ambassa­dors to him, promising to submit, and to paywhat tribute ne should appoint. HereuponSennacherib resolved not to proceed in thewar, but to accept of the proposals that weremade him: and if he might receive threehundred talents of silver, and thirty talentsof gold, he promised that he would depart ina friendly manner; and gave security uponoath to the ambassadors that he would thendo Hezekiah no harm, but go away as hecame. So Hezekiah submitted, and emptiedhis treasures, and sent the money; as sup- C posing he should be freed from his enemy,and from any farther distress about his king­dom. Accordingly the Assyrian took it, and et had no regard to what he had promised; ut while he himself went to the war againstthe Egyptians and Ethiopians, he left hisgeneral Rabshakeh,t and two other of hisprincipal commanders, with great forces todestroy Jerusalem. The names of the twoother commanders were Tartan and Rab­saris.! Now as soon as they were come before thewalls, they pitched their camp, and sent mes­sengers to Hezekiah, and desired that theymight speak with him. But he did not him­self come out to them for fear; but sent threeof his most intimate friends: viz. Eliakim,who was over the kingdom; Shebna, andJoah the recorder. So these men came out,and stood over against the commanders ofthe Assyrian army, and when Rabshakehsaw them, he bade them go and speak toHezekiah in the following manner: that"Sennacherib, the ||great king, desires toknow of him, on whom it is that he relies,and depends, in flying from his lord, and re- * 2 Kings xviii. 13. Isaiah xxxvi. 1. t Tartan, Rabsaris, and Rabshakeh, are not the propernames of these men, but rather denote their employmentsand offices. Tartan signifies the president of the customs,Rabsaris, the chief eunuch, and Rabshakeh, the principalcup-bearer; and because he spake Hebrew with somefluency, the Rabbins are generally of opinion, that he waseither an apostate Jew, or one of the captivity of Israel.It is certain, that he was a very eloquent man, and hisspeech very excellently well calculated to raise seditionor defection among the besieged; but that a person of hiseducation should be versed in the Phoenician, which is in amanner the same with the Hebrew language, is no wonder fOI» I.—NOS. 29 & 30. at all. Moreover, had he been a Jew, (though an apos­tate,) he should have known better, one would think,than to have upbraided Hezekiah with acting accordingto the law under which he lived, in destroying the grovesand altars of idols, and in requiring his subjects to worshipGod in Jerusalem only, 2 Kings xviii. 22. Le Clerc'sCommentary. B. t 2 Kings xviii. 17. I This title of Great King, both in oar Bibles, 2 Kingsxviii. 19. Isaiah xxxiv. 4. and here in Josephus, is thesame that Herodotus gives this Sennacherib; as Spanheimtakes notice in this place. 3P