OCR Output Chap. XII.] NATIONALITY, RELIGION, AND EDUCATION. 423 bounds of Italy and began to pass beyond them; it camealso to acquire intrinsically a deeper intellectual basis. Wefind it in the course of creating a classical literature, and ahigher instruction of its own; and, though in comparisonwith the Hellenic classics and Hellenic culture we may feelourselves tempted to attach little value to the feeble hot­house products of Italy, yet, so far as its historical develop­ment was primarily concerned, the quality of the Latinclassical literature and the Latin culture was of far lessmoment than the fact that they subsisted side by side withthe Greek; and, sunken as were the contemporary Hellenesin a literary point of view, one might perhaps apply in thiscase also the saying of the poet, that the living day-laboureris better than the dead Achilles. But, however rapidly and vigorously the Latin language Hellenism.and nationality gain ground, they at the same time recog­nize the Hellenic nationality as having an entirely equal,indeed an earlier and better title, and enter everywhere intothe closest alliance with it or become intermingled with it ina joint development. The Italian revolution, which otherwiselevelled all the non-Latin nationalities in the peninsula, didnot disturb the Greek cities of Tarentum, Rhegium, Nea-polis, Locri (P. 249). In like manner Massilia, althoughnow enclosed by Roman territory, remained a Greek cityand in that very capacity firmly connected with Rome. "Withthe complete Latinizing of Italy an increased Hellenizingwent hand in hand. In the higher circles of Italian societyGreek training became an integral element of their nativeculture. The consul of 623, the pontifex maximus Publius 131.Crassus, excited the astonishment even of the native Greeks,when as governor of Asia he delivered his judicial decisions,as the case required, sometimes in ordinary Greek, some­times in one of the four dialects used as written languages.And if the Italian literature and art for long looked steadilytowards the East, Hellenic literature and art now began tolook towards the West. Not only did the Greek cities inItaly maintain a lively intellectual intercourse with Greece,Asia Minor, and Egypt, and confer on the Greek poets andactors who had acquired celebrity there the like recognitionand the like honours among themselves; in Rome also,after the example set by the destroyer of Corinth at histriumph in 608, the gymnastic and aesthetic recreations of 146.the Greeks—competitions in wrestling as well as in musics