OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 353 many years in Spain, Sicily, and Sardinia; to QuintusMinucius, that he might finish the inquiries concerningthe conspiracies in Bruttium, which, while pretor, hehad managed with care and fidelity. That he shouldalso send to Locri, to suffer punishment, those whohad been convicted of sacrilege, and who were then inchains at Rome; taking care, at the same time, thatwhatever had been carried away from the temple ofProserpine should be replaced, and proper atonementsmade. The Latine festival was repeated in pursuanceof a decree of the pontiffs, because ambassadors fromArdea had complained to the senate, that during thesaid solemnity they had not been supplied with meatas usual. From Suessa an account was brought, thattwo of the gates, and the wall between them, werestruck with lightning. Messengers from Formiae re足lated, that the temple of Jupiter was also struck bylightning; from Ostia, likewise, news came of the likeaccident having happened to the temple of Jupiterthere; it was said, too, that the temples of Apollo andSancus, at Veliternum, were struck in like maimer;and that in the temple of Hercules, hair grew on thestatue. A letter was received from Quintus Minucius,propretor, from Bruttium, that a foal had been bornwith five feet, and three chickens with three feet each.Afterwards a letter was brought from Macedonia, fromPublius Sulpicius, proconsul, in which, among othermatters, it was mentioned, that a laurel-tree hadsprung up on the poop of a ship of war. On occasionof the former prodigies, the senate had voted, that theconsuls should offer sacrifices with the greater victims,to such gods as they thought proper. On account of thelast prodigy, alone, the aruspices were called beforethe senate, and, in pursuance of their answer, the peo足ple were ordered by proclamation to perform a suppli足cation for one day, and worship was solemnised at allthe shrines. 2. This year the Carthaginians brought to Rome thefirst payment of the silver imposed on them as a tri足bute; and the questors having reported that it was notliv. vol. v. z