OCR Output 102 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLi drawn sword, compelled the Persians to vanquish; andbefore it was sheathed, fourscore thousand of the in­habitants had expiated the blood of their companions.After the siege of Amida, the war continued threeyears, and the unhappy frontier tasted the full mea­sure of its calamities. The gold of Anastasius wasoffered too late, the number of his troops was defeated bythe number of their generals; the country was strippedof its inhabitants, and both the living and the dead wereabandoned to the wild beasts of the desert. The re­sistance of Edessa, and the deficiency of spoil, inclinedthe mind of Cabades to peace; he sold his conquests foran exorbitant price: and the same line, though markedwith slaughter and devastation, still separated the twoempires. To avert the repetition of the same evils,Anastasius resolved to found a new colony, so strong,that it should defy the power of the Persian, so far ad­vanced toward Assyria, that its stationary troops mightdefend the province by the menace or operation of of-Foriiiica- fensive war, For this purpose, the town of Dara/ four-Data.0 teen miles from Nisibis, and four days' journey fromthe Tigris, was peopled and adorned; the hasty worksof Anastasius were improved by the perseverance of Jus­tinian; and without insisting on places less important,the fortifications of Dara may represent the military ar­chitecture of the age. The city was surrounded withtwo walls, and the interval between them of fifty paces,afforded a retreat to the cattle of the besieged. The in-iner wall was a monument of strength and beauty: itmeasured sixty feet from the ground, and the height ofthe towers was one hundred feet; the loop-holes fromwhence an enemy might be annoyed with missile wea­pons, were small but numerous: the soldiers were plantedalong the rampart, under the shelter of double galleries, J The description of Dara is amply and correotlj given by Procopins. (Persic, lib.1. c. 10. lib. 2. c. 13. De Etlific. lib. 2. c. 1—3. lib. 3rc. 5.) See the situation ind'Anviile (l'Euphrate et le Tigre, u. 53—55.), though he seems to doable the inter-tal between Dara and Nisibis.