OCR Output i68 THE DECLINE AND FALL of two or three generations, the whole property of the subjectmust have gradually passed through the coffers of the state. In the first and golden years of the reign of Nero, that prince,from a desire of popularity, and perhaps from a blind impulseof benevolence, conceived a wish of abolishing the oppression of theRegulations customs and excise. The wisest senators applauded his magnanimity;e m but they diverted him from the execution of a design, which would have dissolved the strength and resources of the republic "°. Hadit indeed been possible to realize this dream of fancy, such princesas Trajan and the Antonines would surely have embraced withardour, the glorious opportunity of conferring so signal an obli­gation on mankind. Satisfied, however, with alleviating the pub­lic burden, they attempted not to remove it. The mildness andprecision of their laws ascertained the rule and measure of taxation,and protected the subject of every rank against arbitrary interpret­ations, antiquated claims, and the insolent vexation of the farmersof the revenue"'. For it is somewhat singular, that in every age,the best and wisest of the Roman governors persevered in this per­nicious method of collecting the principal branches at least ofthe excise and customsEdict of The sentiments, and, indeed, the situation of Caracalla, were very Caracalla. different from those of the Antonines. Inattentive, or ratheraverse to the welfare of his people, he found himself under thenecessity of gratifying the insatiate avarice, which he had excitedin the army. Of the several impositions introduced by Augustus,the twentieth on inheritances and legacies, was the most fruitful,as well as the most comprehensive. As its influence was not con­fined to Rome or Italy, the produce continually increased with thegradual extension of the Roman City. The new citizens, thoughcharged, oft equal terms ,,J, with the payment of new taxes, whichhad not affected them as subjects, derived an ample compensationfrom the rank they obtained, the privileges they acquired, and the fair