OCR Output 14 LIVY. tervals between them. A company had twenty light-armed soldiers, the rest bearing shields ; those werecalled light, who carried only a spear and short ironjavelins. This body, which formed the van in the fieldof battle, contained the youth in early bloom, whowere advancing to the age of service ; next to themfollowed the men of more robust age, in the samenumber of companies, whom they called principes, allbearing shields, and distinguished by the completestarmor. This band of twenty companies they calledantepilani, because there were, at the same time, tenothers placed behind them with the standards. Ofthese companies, each was distinguished into threedivisions, and the first division of each they called apilus. Each company had three ensigns, and con足tained one hundred and eighty-six men. The firstensign was at the head of the triarii, veteran soldiersof approved courage ; the second, at the head of therorarii, men whose age and course of service affordedless ability ; the third, at that of the accensi, the bodyin whom they placed the least confidence of all, forwhich reason also they were thrown back to the lastline. An army being marshalled according to thisdisposition, the spearmen first began the fight: if thesewere unable to repulse the enemy, they retreated lei足surely, and the principes received them into the in足tervals of their ranks. The fight then rested on theprincipes, the spearmen following in their rear. Theveterans continued kneeling behind the ensigns withtheir left leg extended forward, holding their shieldsresting on their shoulders, and their spears fixed inthe ground, with the points erect; so that their linepresented an appearance of strength, like that of arampart. If the principes also failed in making animpression on the enemy, they fell back slowly fromthe front to the veterans. Hence cape into use theproverbial expression, denoting a case of difficulty,that the affair had come to the triarii. These then,rising up, received the principes and spearmen intothe intervals of their ranks, and immediately closing足