OCR Output CUAP. 2. ROMAN HISTORY. reasonable thain the former, they would, at the begin­ning, have fought it fairly, whatever their disadvan­tages, rather than have such laws wreathed about theirnecks. Because they had been indulged at first in tri­bunes, they must be again indulged. To see an endof their dissensions, was impossible, so long as senatorsand tribunes existed in the same state. Either the Pa­trician order, or these demagogues, must be kickedout of the community. It is better late than never atall, to stem the torrent of their insolence and temerity.Shall they sow dissension at home, and thereby armthe neighbouring nations against us; whilst, at thesame time, they prohibit the citizens from repelling aninvasion they had brought upon them, and not smartfor their impudence ? Shall they give every encourage­ment to the enemy, but the ceremony of an invitation,and not permit an army to be levied to make headagainst them? But this Canuleius has the effrontery todeclare in open senate, that if the Patricians will notreceive his laws, as those ot a despotic conqueror, hewill not suffer a single man to enlist. Ls not this anopen declaration, a plain menace, that he will betrayhis country ?—That he will suffer it to be invested, andcalmly stand by and see it takeu? Such a sentiment?with what courage must it inspire—not the Romanpeople—but their declared enemies, the JEqu\, Volsci,and Vejentes? Conducted by this demagogue, canthey look for any thing less, than the possession of thecitadel and capitol, if the fathers, together with theirdignity and civil rights, do not also surrender to thetribunes their courage and resolution? But they wouldhave them to know, that the consuls were determinedto take the lead in extirpating wickedness at home, be­fore they stirred to oppose the incursions of the enemy,' CHAP. IIL Speech of Canuleius. Vv H1LST these things were warmly insisted on in thesenate, Canuleius, in defence of his laws, and in opposi­tion to the consuls, spoke to the following effect: 'I