OCR Output 380 FLATIUS JOSEPHUS [B. 1. very troublesome lo him, and cost him a great deal of painsto take it. He then marched away to Borsippus, to besiegeNabonnedus; but as Nabonnedus did not sustain the siege,but delivered himself into his hands, he was at first kindlyused by Cyrus, who gave him Carmania as a place for him toinhabit in, but sent him out of Babylonia. Accordingly,Nabonnedus spent the rest of his time in that country, andthere died." 21. These accounts agree with the true history in our books:for in them it is written that Nebuchadnezzar, in the eigh­teenth ' year of his reign, laid our temple desolate, and so itlay in that state of obscurity for fifty years; but that, in thesecond year of the reign of Cyrus, its foundatians were laid,and it was finished again in the second2 year of Darius. Iwill now add the records of the Phoenicians; for it will not besuperfluous to give the reader demonstrations more than enowon this occasion. In them we have this enumeration of thotimes of their several kings. — " Nabuchodonosor besiegedTyre for thirteen years in the days of IthobaJ, their king;after him reigned Baal ten years ; after him were judges ap­pointed, who judged the people. Ecnibalus, the son of Bas-lacus, two months; Chelbes, the son of Abdeus, ten months;Abbar, the high-priest, three months ; Mitgonus and Gcras-tratus, the sons of Abdelemus, were judges six years; afterwhom Balatorus reigned one year; after his death, they sentand fetched Merbalus from Babylon, who reigned four years:after his death they sent for his biother Hirom, who reignedtwenty years. Under his reign Cyrus became king of Persia."So that the whole interval is fifty-four years besides threemonths; for on the seventh year of the reign of Nebuchad­ 1 This number in Josephus, that Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple inthe 18th year of his reign, is a mistake in the nicety of chronology: for ityi:\s in the 19th. 2 The true number here for the year of Darius, on which the second templowas finished, whether the 2d with our present copies, or the 0th with thatof Syncellus, or the tenth with that of Eusebius, is very uncertain: so wehad best follow Josephus's own account elsewhere, Antiq. B. xi. ch. iii. sect.4, which shows us that, according to his copy of the Old Testament, after thesecond of Cyrus, that work was interrupted till the 2d of Darius, when inecven years it was finished, on the 9th of Darius.