OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 5G7 scarcely be expected that any government should suffer the actionof Marcellus the Centurion to pass with impunity. On the day ofa public festival, that officer threw away his belt, his arms, and theensigns of his office, and exclaimed with a loud voice, that he wouldobey none but Jesus Christ the eternal King, and that he renouncedfor ever the use of carnal weapons, and the service of an idolatrousmaster. The soldiers, as soon as they recovered from their asto­nishment, secured the person of Marcellus. He was examined inthe city of Tingi by the president of that part of Mauritania; andas he was convicted by his own confession, he was condemned andbeheaded for the crime of desertion ,4S. Examples of such a nature*savour much less of religious persecution than of martial or evencivil law: but they served to alienate the mind of the emperors, tojustify the severity of Galerius, who dismissed a great number ofChristian officers from their employments; and to authorize theopinion, that a sect of enthusiasts, which avowed principles so re­pugnant to the public safety, must either remain useless, or wouldsoon become dangerous subjects of the empire. After the success of the Persian war had raised the hope* and the Galerius pre*-reputation of Galerius, he passed a winter with Diocletian in the cietlan^obelpalace of Nicomedia, and the fate of Christianity was the object of ^"^"Jn"1their secret consultations M6. The experienced emperor was still in­clined to pursue measures of lenity; and though he readily con­sented to exclude the Christians from holding any employments inthe household or the army, he urged in the strongest terms the dan­ger as well as cruelty of shedding the blood of those deluded fana^tics. Galerius at length extorted from him the permission of sum­moning a council, composed of a few persons the most distinguished:in the civil and military departments of the state. The importantquestion was agitated in their presence, and those ambitious cour­tiers easily discerned, that it was incumbent on them to second, bytheir eloquence, the importunate violence of the Cæsar. It may bo: presumed^,