OCR Output TKNLHCIO. 1129 TEKGESTE. ■ilinp of one of the lateral chambers, behind thetruco, and on the right hide of the temple, was ai.*!Wr group of mythological figures, which hitsm been atyled a planisphere or sodiac. This being■lipiuml on a kind of sandstone, was removeable,ill bx the permission of Mchemet Ali, in 1821,u cat out of the ceiling by M. Lelorrain, andnchl to Paris. It was purchased by the Frenchrerunwnt, and is now in the Imperial Museum,it probably a few years older than the larger 1 Tkm Iseivm. — " The chapel of Isis is behind * teinple of Athor." (Strab. xvii. p. 814.) Itmis indeed, immediately behind its SW. angle.^jriditB of one central and two lateral chambers,th a corridor in front. Among its hieroglyphicsitr the names of Augustus, Claudius, and Nero. • uf 170 paces K. of this chapel stands a pylon,■fi a Greek inscription, importing that in theirtj-first year of Caesar (Augustus) it was dedi-'«i to lain. (Letronne, lb. pp. 82, 84.) ( The Typhimimm, as it is denominated from • rmhlems of Typbon on its walls, stands about>ir» N. of the great temple. It comprises two itr }«*fiag*-cluunber* and a central and lateral ady-ti. A perifvtyle of twenty-two columns surrounds ■ »i ies and the rear of the building. On its wallsinscribed the names of Trajan, Hadrian, and t'nious Pius, But although the symbols of theaople of destruction are found on its walls, Ty-« can hardly have been the presiding deity of * Temple, from the circumstance that all the*r .sculptures refer to the birth of Eluwu, Cham-.> *> (Lettrts sur CEgypte, vol. ii. p. 67) suggestst this was one of the chapels styled " Mammeisi,""tying-in places," and that it commemorated the ■ uibment of Athor, mother of Ehovu. Typhonwrr accordingly in a subordinate character, andriS»ix» not destruction, but darkness, chaos, or ** sight primeval," which precedes creation andb. ir the monuments of Tentyra, besides the workswiy eaomerated, Wilkinson's Ancient EgyptiansMudern Egypt and Thebes, and the volumesLibrary of Entertaining Knowledge^ en-»! lirtiUk Museum, Egyptian Antiquities, mayic<ulted; and for the zodiacs, Visconti, Oenrres. tr.; Letronne, Observations sur fObjet ties He-*~Utit»tms JCodiacalts de CAntiquite\ 8vo. Paris,!4; or Hal ma, Examen tt Explicutums des Zu-fms Efyptiennes, 8ro. 1822. [W. IS. D.] EXI'KCIO. [Tdjcktiuji.] EOS (iVatf: Eth. T^toj), an Ionian city on the.: of Axis Minor, on the south side of the isthmus*"rf;ng the Ionian peninsula of Mount Mimasi the mainland. It was originally a colony ofMmTM of Orchomenos led out by Athamas, butfljf thr Ionian migration the inhabitants wereby numerous colonists from Athens under'lu>, a son cf Codrus, Ajioecus, and Damasus; *;terwards their number was further increasedfVwtians under Geres. (Strab. xiv. p. 633;a. vu. 3. § 3; Herod, i. 142; Scylu, p. 37;i fa. B. #. r.) The city had two gtxxl harbours,at which is mentioned even by Scylax, and tlie- 30 stadia distant from the former, is called bybo re^oi&u (xiv. p. 644), and by Livy (xxxvii. <>er»eslicus. Teos became a flourishing com- . &j U'wn.antl enjoyed its prosperity uutiI the time«r i'mdan dominion, when its inhabitants, unable-as tbe uoboknee of the barbarians, abandoned their city and removed to Abdera in Thrace, (Herod,i. 168; Strab. I c.) But though deserted by thegreater part of its inhabitants, Teos still continuedto be one of the Ionian cities, and in alliance withAthens. (Thucyd. iii. 32.) After the Siciliandisaster, Teos revolted from Athens, but was speedilyreduced (Thucyd. viii. 16, 19, 20). In the waragainst Antiochus, the fleet of the Komans and Kho-dians gained a victory over that of the Syrian kingin the neighbourhood of this city. (Liv. /. c; cornp.Polyb. v. 77.) The vicinity of Teos produced ex­cellent wine, whence Bacchus was one of the chiefdivinities of the place. Pliny (v. 38) erroneouslycalls Teos an islam), for at must it could only betermed a peninsula. (Comp. Pomp. Mela, i. 17; Ptol.v. 2. § 6.) There still exist considerable remains ofTeos at a place called SighajiJc, which seems to havebeen one of the ports of the ancient city, and thewalls of which are constructed of the rains of Teos,so that they are covered with a number of Greek in­scriptions of considerable interest, referring,as they do,to treaties made between the Teiansand other states,such as the Romans, Aetoliaus, and several citiesof Crete, by all of whom the inviolability of theTeian territory, the worship of Bacchus, and the lightof asylum are confirmed. The most interestingamong the ruins of Teos are those of the theatre andof the great and splendid temple of Bacchus; themassive walls of the city also may still be tracedalong their whole extent. The theatre commandsa magnificent view, overlooking the site of the an­cient city and the bay as far as the bold promontoryof Myonnesus and the distant island of Samoa. Fora detailed description of these remains, see Hamilton,Researches, u. p. 11, foil.; comp. Leake, Asia Minor,p. 350. [L. S.] \ lOIS OK TKUS. TEUACATKIAE (T^oKirr^a.), a Germantribe in Noricum, on the banks of the Dunube,probably on the south of the territory occupied bythe Baemi (Ptol. ii. 11. § 26.) [L. S.] TEKEDON. [ErniRATKs]. TEKEN* (TDpriv, Diod. v. 72), a river in Crete,perhaps a tributary of the Amnisus, or the modernAfytselemi [T. H. I>.] TEKENU'THIS(T«p«roD0ij, Not. Imp.), the mo­dern Teranieh. a town in Lower Aegypt, was situatedon the left bank of the Canopic arm of the Nile,At this point a pass through the hills conducted tothe Natron Lakes, about 30 miles to the W. of thetown. The people of Terenuthis farmed of the go­vernment a monopoly for collecting and exportingnatron. [Nitriak]. Ruins at the modern hamletof Abou-Belleu represent the ancient Terenuthis.(Soniiini, Voyages, vol. i. p. 228.) [W. B. U] TEREPS FLUVIUS. [Tader] TERKSES FORTUNALES, a place in the W. ofHispania Baetica (Piin. iii. 1. a. 3). [T. H. U] TERGESTE (Tifryttrrt, Strab. Tipytaror, Ptol:Eth. Tergestiuus: 7rk*fe),a city of Venetia or Intria,situated on a bay to which it gave the name of Tkk-OKSTtNUS Sinus, which forms the inner bight orextremity of the Adriatic sea towards the N. It