OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 139- ■stripped of her wealth and ornaments, without excepting the bodkin of her hair:if a man introduced a new bride into his bed, her fortune might be lawfully seizedby the vengeance of his exiled wife. Forfeiture was sometimes commuted to afine; the fine was sometimes aggravated by transportation to an island, or impri­sonment in a monastery: the injured party was released from the bonds of mar­riage; but the offender, during life or a term of years, was disabled from {he re­petition of nuptials. The successor of Justinian yielded to the prayers of hisunhappy subjects, and restored the liberty of divorce by mutual consent: thecivilians were unanimous,(l) the theologians were divided,(2) and the ambiguousword, which contains the precepts of Christ, is flexible to any interpretation thatthe wisdom of a legislator can demand. The freedom of love and marriage was restrained among the Romans by natu­ral and civil impediments. An instinct, almost innate and universal, appears toprohibit the incestuous commerce(3) of parents and children in the infinite seriesof ascending and descending generations. Concerning the oblique and collateralbranches nature is indifferent, reason mute, and custom various and arbitrary. InEgypt, the marriage of brothers and sisters was admitted without scruple or ex­ception: a Spartan might espouse the daughter of his father, an Athenian that ofhis mother; and the nuptials of an uncle with his niece was applauded at Athensas a happy union of the dearest relations. The profane lawgivers of Rome werenever tempted by interest or superstition to multiply the forbidden degrees: butthey inflexibly condemned the marriage of sisters and brothers, hesitated whetherfirst cousins should be touched by the same interdict: revered the parental cha­racter of aunts and uncles, and treated affinity and adoption as a just imitation ofthe ties of blood. According to the proud maxims of the republic, a legal mar­riage could only be contracted by free citizens; an honourable, at least an ingenu­ous, birth was required for the spouse of a senator: but the blood of kings couldnever mingle in legitimate nuptials with the blood of a Roman; and the name ofStranger degraded Cleopatra and Berenice, (4) to live the concubines of Mark An­tony and Titus. (5) This appellation, indeed, so injurious to the majesty, cannotwithout indulgence be applied to the manners, of these oriental queens. A con­cubine, in the strict sense of the civilians, was a woman of servile or plebeian ex­traction, the sole and faithful companion of a Roman citizen, who continued in astate of celibacy. Her modest station below the honours of a wife, above the in­famy of a prostitute, was acknowledged and approved by the laws: from the ageof Augustus to the tenth century, the use of this secondary marriage prevailedboth in the west and east, and the humble virtues of a concubine were often pre­ferred to the pomp and insolence of a noble matron. In this connexion, the twoAntonines, the best of princes and of men, enjoyed the comforts of domestic love;the example was imitated by many citizens impatient of celibacy, but regardfulof their families. If at any time they desired to legitimate their natural children,the conversion was instantly performed by the celebration of their nuptials with apartner, whose fruitfulness and fidelity they had already tried. By this epithet ofnatural, the offspring of the concubine were distinguished from the spurious bloodof adultery, prostitution, and incest, to whom Justinian reluctantly grants the ne­cessary aliments of life; and these natural children alone were capable of succeed­ing to a sixth part of the inheritance of their reputed father. According to therigour of the law, bastards were entitled only to the name and condition of theirmother, from whom they might derive the character of a slave, a stranger, or a (1) The Institutes are silent,"but we may_ consult the Codes of Theodosius (lib. iii. tit. rri. with Godefrov*sCommentary, torn. i. p. 310—313.) and Justinian (lib. v. tit. xvii.,) the Pandects (lib. xxiv. tit. ii.,) and the No­vels (22. 117. 127.134.140.) Justinian fluctuated to the last between civil and ecclesiastical law. (2) In pure Greek, m^nx is not a common word; nor can the proper meaning/, fornication, be strictly ap­plied to matrimonial sin. In a figurative sense, how far, and to what offences, may it be extended ? DitlChrist speak the Rabbinical or Syriac tongue ? Of what original word is vopvsix the translation ? How vari­ously is that Greek word translated in the versions ancient and modern ! There are two (Mark x. 11. Lukexvi. IS.) to one (Matthew xix. 9.) that such ground of divorce was not excepted by Jesus. Some critics havepresumed to think, by an evasive answer, he avoided the giving offence either to the school of Sammai orthat of Hillel (Selden, Uxor. Ebraica, lib. iii. c. IS—22. 23. 31.) (3) The principles of the Roman jurisprudence are exposed by Justinian (Institut. lib. i. tit. 10.,) and the lawsand manners of the different nations of antiquity concerning forbidden degrees, &e. are copiously explainedby Dr. Taylor in his Elements of civil law (p. 108. 314—330.,) a work of amusing, though various, reading;but which cannot be praised for philosophical precision. (4) When her father Agrippa died (A. D. 44.,) Berenice was sixteen years of age .(Joseph, torn. i. Antiqnif.Judaic, lib. xix. c. 9. p. 952. edit, Havercamp.) She was therefore above fifty years old when Titus (A. D. 79.)invitus invitam invisir. This date would not have adorned the tragedy or pastoral of the tender Racine. (5) The iCgyptia conjonx of Virgil (£taeid. 8.688.) seems to be numbered among the monsters ivlio warredwith, Mark Antony against Augustus, the senate, and the gods of Italy.