OCR Output civ A Survey of the History. a time on a spot of ground, where nothing but ruin and de­struction could befal them ? Men so dispirited can makebut faint opposition against an always high-spirited and nowsuccessful enemy. They soon lose another battle, and thedecisive engagement is fast approaching. But before it is fought, Thucydides, animated with morethan historic spirit, emulates his admired Homer, reviewsthe parties concerned, and catalogues the troops now warringagainst and in defence of Syracuse. This catalogue is farfrom being a mere muster-roll of names. It is full of suchstrokes as must imprint many useful and moral reflections inthe mind. His little incidental sketches represent mankindin a true light, as Homer's do the world of nature. Homerpaints the soil, and Thucydides the people. The mouth of the harbour is now barred up by theenemy. The Athenians must fight their way out; or, burnall their ships and march off by land. It is determined toattempt the former: and the consequence is the battle with­in the harbour of Syracuse. A more striking, more astonish­ing battle-piece was never exhibited ; and a masterly pencil,though none but a masterly one, might exactly delineate itfrom this description. The present temper of the comba­tants on both sides is strongly marked in the harangues be­fore the engagement. Nicias then said all, and the Athe­nians in action did their best; but all was unavailing. Ishall say no more about it, since the reader hath nothingto do but to turn his eye towards it, and distinctly view itthrough the whole of its process, till the Syracusans sail intriumph to their city, and raise the most glorious of all theirtrophies. The wretched perplexities of the Athenians, the raisingof the siege, the mournful decampment, the good heart ofNicias sympathising in all their distress, and endeavouringto chear a little their desponding minds, their laboriousmarches whilst the enemy is harassing them both in frontand in rear and on all sides, the surrender of the column