OCR Output 348 ROMAN EMPIRE. He might still have escaped to a fortress in the desert,that had defied the power of Caesar and Chosroes, andconfided in the fidelity of the tribe of Tai, which wouldhave armed ten thousand warriors in his defence. In aconference with the chief of the enemy, he proposed theoption of three honourable conditions; that he should beallowed to return to Medina, or be stationed in a frontiergarrison against the Turks, or safely conducted to thepresence of Yezid. But the commands of the caliph,or his lieutenant, were stern and absolute; and Hoseinwas informed that he must either submit as a captiveand a criminal to the commander of the faithful, or ex足pect the consequences of his rebellion. Do you think(replied he) to terrify me with death? And, during theshort respite of a night, he prepared with calm and so足lemn resignation to encounter his fate. He checked thelamentations of his sister Fatima, who deplored the im足pending ruin of his house. Our trust (said Hosein) ifin God alone. All things, both in heaven and earth,must perish and return to their creator. My brother,my father, my mother, were better than me; and everyMussulman has an example in the prophet. He pressedhis friends to consult their safety by a timely flight; theyunanimously refused to desert or survive their belovedmaster; and their courage was fortified by a ferventprayer and the assurance of paradise. On the morningof the fatal day, he mounted on horseback, with hissword in one hand and the Koran in the other; his ge足nerous band of martyrs consisted only of thirty-two horseand forty foot: but their flanks and rear were secured bythe tent-ropes, and by a deep trench which they hadfilled with lighted faggots, according to the practice ofthe Arabs. The enemy advanced with reluctance; andone of their chiefs deserted, with thirty followers, toclaim the partnership of inevitable death. In every closeonset, or single combat, the despair of the Fatimites wasinvincible; but the surrounding multitude galled them