OCR Output 36 THE DECLINE AND FALL wardice was seldom exposed to military service. But the wiser citizens, whojudged of the future by the past, revolved in their memory the immense loss, bothof men and money, which the empire had sustained in the expedition of Basilis-cus. The troops, which after five laborious campaigns had been recalled fromthe Persian frontier, dreaded the sea, the climate, and the arms of an unknownenemy. The ministers of the finances computed, as far as they might compute,the demands of an African war; the taxes which must be found and levied to sup­ply those insatiate demands; and the danger, lest their own lives, or at least theirlucrative employments, should be made responsible for the deficiency of the sup­ply. Inspired by such selfish motives, (for we may not suspect him of any zealfor the public good,) John of Cappadocia ventured to oppose in full council the in­clinations of his master. He confessed, that a victory of such importance couldnot be too dearly purchased; but he represented in a grave discourse the certain,difficulties and the uncertain event. You undertake (said the prefect) to besiegeCarthage by land; the distance is not less than one hundred and forty days| jour­ney; on the sea, a whole year(l) must elapse before you can receive any intelli­gence from your fleet. If Africa should be reduced, it cannot be preserved with­out the additional conquest of Sicily and Italy. Success will impose the obliga­tion of new labours; a single misfortune will attract the barbarians into the heartof your exhausted empire. Justinian felt the weight of this salutary advice, hewas confounded by the unwonted freedom of, an obsequious servant; and the de­sign of the war would perhaps have been relinquished, if his courage had notbeen revived by a voice which silenced the doubts of profane reason. " I haveseen a vision (cried m artful or fanatic bishop of the east.) "It is the will ofHeaven, O emperor; f*at you Should not abandon your holy enterprise for the de­liverance of the African church. The god of battles will inarch before yourstandard, and disperse ymr enemies, who are the enemies of his, Son." Theemperor might be tempted, and his counsellors were constrained, to give creditto this seasonable revelation: but they derived more rational hope from the re­volt, which the adherents of Hilderic or Athanasius had already excited on theborders of the Vandal monarchy. Prudentius, an African subject, had privately-signified his royal intentions, and a small military am restored the province ofTripoli to the obedience of the Romans. The government of Sardinia had beenintrusted to Godas, a valiant barbarian; he suspended the payment of tribute, dis­claimed his allegiance to the usurper, and gave audience to the emissaries of Jus­tinian, who found him master of that fruitful island, at the head of his guards,and proudly invested with the ensigns of royalty. The forces of the Vandalswere diminished by discord and suspicion; the Roman armies were animated bythe spirit of Belisarius; one of those heroic names which are familiar to every ageand to every nation. The Africanus of new Rome was born, and perhaps educated, among the Thra-cian peasants,(2) without any of those advantages which had formed the virtues ofthe elder and the younger Scipio; a noble origin, liberal studies, and the emulationof a free state. The silence ot a loquacious secretary may be admitted, to provethat the youth of Belisarius could not afford any subject of praise; he served most as­suredly, with valour and reputation, among the private guards of Justinian; andwhen his patron became emperor, the domestic was promoted to military com­mand. After a bold inroad into Persarmenia, in which his glory was shared by acolleague, and his progress was checked by an enemy, Belisarius repaired to theimportant station of Dara, where he first accepted the service of Procopius, thefaithful companion, and diligent historian, of his exploits. (3) The Mirranes ofPersia advanced, with forty thousand of her best troops, to raise the fortificationsof Dara: and signified the day and the hour on which the citizens should preparea bath for his refreshment after the toils of victory. He encountered an adver­sary equal to himself, by the new title of general of the east; his superior in thescience of war, but much inferior in the number and quality of his troops, whichamounted only to twenty-five thousand Romans and strangers, relaxed in their (1) A Year—absurd exaggeration! The conquest or Africa may be dated A. D. S33. September 14: it ia cele­brated by Justinian in the preface to his Institutes, which were published November 21, of the same year. In­cluding the voyage and return, such a computation might he truly applied to our Indian empire. (2) Qpturo Si 5 BiMa-etpio; (x rijuuns; n 8p*jewvrs xstt Ix*.upj»w ftirx^v xsitkj. Procop. Vandal, lib. i. c»M.) Aleraan. (Not. ad Aneedot. p. J.) an Italian, could easily reject the German vanity of Giphanius andVeljeruj, who wished to claim the herot but his Gcrmania, a metropolis of Thrace, I cannot find in any civilor ecclesiastical list of the provinces and cities. ,..<3! The two first Persian campaigns of Belisarius, are fairly and copiously related by his secretary. (Persiclib. J. c 12—18.)