OCR Output 373 MUTINA. MUTINA. possession shortly after, at the commencement of theSecond Punic War, n. c. 218. At that periodMutina must have already been a considerable placeand well fortified; as we are told that, when thesudden outbreak of the Gauls interrupted the pro­ceedings of the triumvirs who were appointed tofound the new colony of Placentia, and compelledthem to fly for safety, they took refuge within thewalls of Mutina, which afforded thcin an effectualprotection against the arms of the barbarians. (Liv.xxi. 25, 26, xxvii. 21 j Pol. iii. 40.) Polybiuscalls it at this period a Roman colony; but it seemsprobable that this is a mistake; for we have no ac­count of its foundation as such, nor does Livy everallude to Mutina as a colony, where he expresslynotices those of Cremona and Placentia (xxvii. 10).But whether it had been fortified by the Romans, orwas a regular walled city previously existing (inwhich ease it must have been, like its neighbourKonimia, of Etruscan origin), we have no means ofdetermining, though the latter supposition is per­haps the more probable. In any case it continuedto be held by the Romans not only during the SecondPunic War. but throughout the long wars whichfollowed with the Cisalpine Gauls and Ligurians.(Lit. xxxv. 4, 6.) It was not till after the final do-feat of the Boinns in B.C. 191, on which occasionthey were deprived of a large portion of their lands,that the Romans determined to secure the newlyacquired territory, by planting there the two coloniesof Parma and Mutina, which were accordingly es­tablished in B.C. 183. (I.iv. xxxix. 55.) Theywere both of them "coloniae civium;" so that theirinhabitants from the first enjoyed the full rights ofRoman citizens: 2000 settlers were planted in each,ami these received 5 jugera each for their portion.(Liv. L c.) The construction of the great militaryhigh road of the Via Aemilia a few years before,B.C. 187 (Liv. xxxix. 2), must have greatly facili­tated the foundation of these new colonies, andbecame the chief source of their prosperity. lint shortly after its foundation Mutina sustaineda severe disaster. The Ligurians, who still oc­cupied the heights and'valleys of the A pen nines bor­dering on the Boian territory, in B.c. 177 made asudden descent upon tho new colony, and not onlyravaged its territory, but actually made themselvesmasters of the town itself. This was, however, re­covered with little difficulty by the consul C. Clau­dius, 8000 of the Ligurians were put to the sword,mnd the colonists re-established in the possession ofMutina. (Liv. xli. 14. 16.) For a considerableperiod after this, we do not again meet with itsname in history; but it appears that it must haverisen rapidly to prosperity, and become one of thomost flourishing of the towns along the line of theVia Aemilia. Hence it bears a conspicuous part inthe Civil Wars. When Lepidus, after the death ofSulla, B.C. 78, raised an insurrection in CisalpineGaul against the senate, Mutina was almost theonly place which was able to offer any resistance tothe arms of Pompeius, and was held against him byBrutus for a considerable period. (Plut. Pomp.16.) But it was the siege which it sustained, andthe battles fought in its neighbourhood after thedeath of Caesar, n.c 44, that have rendered thename of Mutina chiefly celebrated in history, andare referred to by Suetonius under the name of"Bellmn Mutinense." (Suet. Aug. 9.) On thatoccasion I). Brutus, to whom the province of Cisal­pine Gaul liad been decreed by the senate, threw himself into Mutina with three legions and a Urnbody of auxiliary troops. Here he was besieged byM. Antonius with a numerous army; but tlie senatehaving declared against the latter, the two consuls,Hirtius and Pansa, as well as the young Octavian,were despatched to the relief and succour of Brutus.(Jan. B.C. 43.) Antonius at this time occupiedBononia, as well as Parma and Regium, with hisgarrisons, while he himself, with the bulk of hisforces, maintained the siege, or rather blockade, ofMutina. Hirtius on his arrival seised on Clatema,while Octavian occupied Forum Comelii Q/moii).From thence they advanced after considerable de­lays, took possession of Bononia, and approachedMutina itself, but were unable to open communica­tions with Brutus. Meanwhile the other eoxsal,C. Pansa, was advancing with a force of 4 newlyraised legions to their support, when he was at­tacked by Antonius, at a place called Forum Gal-lorum, about 8 miles from Mutina on the road toBononia. [FoKtiM Uai.i/>kim.] A sevens cat-test ensued, in which Pansa was mortally wounded;but the other consul, Hirtius, having fallen oo An­tony's army in the rear, completely defeated it, andcompelled him to retire to his camp before Mutina. Asecond bsttle took place some days afterwards(April 27, B.C. 43), under the walls of that city, iawhich Hirtius was slain; but the forces of Anttmiuswere again worsted, and that general found himselfcompelled to abandon the siege (which had nowlasted for above four months), and retire westward,with a view of crossing the Alps. (Appian, B. C.iii. 49—51, 61, 65—72; Dion Cass. xlvi. 36—88)Cic. ad l'am. x. 11, 14, 30, 33, PhiL r.—viii.;Veil. Pat ii. 61; Suet. Aug 10.) Mutina was evidently at this period a flonrwfaingand important town, as well as strongly fortified.Cicero calls it "firmissima et splendidissima popoiiRomani colonia" (PkU. v. 9); and these praises areconfirmed by Appian (B. C. iii. 49), who calls it"a wealthy city," as well as by the fact, that it wascapable of supporting so large an army as tint ofBrutus for so long a time. Mela, also, singles octMutina, together with Bononia and Patavium, a* tb*most opulent cities in this part of Italy. (Mela, H.4.§ 2.) The same inference may fairly be drawnfrom the circumstance, that it was at Mutina thenumerous body of senators who had accompaniedthe emperor Oiho from Rome, in A. u. 69, remained,while Otho himself advanced to meet the generals ofVitellius, and where they very nearly fell victims tothe animosity of the soldiery, on the first newt of n»defeat and death. (Tar. Hist. ii. 52 — 54.) Batwith this exception, we meet with scarcely anymention of Mutina under the Roman empire untila late )<eri<xl, though the still extant iiiM-riptieeaattest tho fart of its continued prosperity. Someof these give to the city the title of Colonia. asdo also Mela andll'liny. (Mela, L c..; I'ltn. in. 15.s. 20; Cavedoni, Marmi Mmuittsi, pp. 120, 185.)We learn also from Pliny and Slrabo, that it ernefamous for the excellence of the wool produced iaits territory, as well as for its wine, aad Us*city itself possessed considerable manafortnres >iearthenware, as well as woollen goods. (Strab. v.p. 218; Plin. xiv. 3. a. 4, xxxv. 18. s. 46, Colmn.vii. 2. J 3.) In a. i). 312, Mutina was taken by Cnnstantimduring his war with Maxentius, but sppean to li*«*suffered but little on this occasion. ( Naxar. /taey.27.) Before the dose of the century, howaver, beta