OCR Output C. V.] THE SABBATIC RIVER SEEN BY TITUS. 309 CHAPTER V. CONCERNING THE SABBATIC RIVER WHICH TITUS SAW AS HEWAS JOURNEYING THROUGH SYRIA; AND HOW THE PEOPLEOF ANTIOCH CAME WITH A PETITION TO TITUS AGAINSTTHE JEWS, BUT WERE REJECTED BY HIM : AS ALSO CON­CERNING titus's and Vespasian's triumph. § 1. Now Titus Cuesar tarried some time at Berytus, as wetold you before. He thence removed, and exhibited magnifi­cent shows in all those cities of Syria, through which he went,and made use of the captive Jews as public instances of thedestruction of that nation. He then saw a river as he wentalong, of such a nature as deserves to be recorded in history;it runs in the middle between Arcea, belonging to Agrippa'skingdom, and Raphanea. It hath somewhat very peculiar init; for when it runs, its current is strong, and has plenty ofwater, after which its springs fail for six days together, andleave its channel dry, as any one may see; after which daysit runs on the seventh day as it did before, and as though ithad undergone no change at all: it hath also been observedto keep this order perpetually and exactly; whence it is thatthey call it the Sabbatic river,] that name being taken fromthe sacred seventh day among the Jews. 2. But when the people of Antioch were informed thatTitus was approaching, they were so glad at it, that theycould not keep within their walls, but hasted away to give himthe meeting: nay, they proceeded as far as thirty furlongsand more with that intention. These were not the men only, 1 Since in these lutter ages this Sabbatic river, once so famous, which, byJosephus's account here, ran every seventh day, and rested on six, but ac­cording to Pliny, Nat. Hist. xxxi. 11, ran perpetually on six days, and restedevery seventh (though it no way appears by either of their accounts that theseventh dos/ of this river was the Jewish seventh day or Sabbath,) is quitovanished, I shall add no more about it; only see Dr. Hudson's note. InVarenius's Geography, I. 17, tho reader will find several instances of suchperiodical fountains and rivers, though none of their periods were that ofjust a week, as of old this appears to have been.