OCR Output 66 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL, which the Phoenicians extracted from a shell-fish, wasrestrained to the sacred person and palace of the empe­ror; and the penalties of treason were denounced againstthe ambitious subjects, who dared to usurp the preroga­tive of the throne." «uk b^tue 'neef*not exP'a'n tnat SZ'^P *s originally spun from theRomans, bowels of a caterpillar, and that it composes the goldentomb from whence a worm emerges in the form of abutterfly. Till the reign of Justinian, the silk-worms,who feed on the leaves of the white mulberry-tree, wereconfined to China; those of the pine, the oak, and theash, were common in the forests both of Asia andEurope; but as their education is more difficult,' andtheir produce more uncertain, they were generally ne­glected, except in the little island of Ceos, near the coastof Attica. A thin gauze was procured from their webs;and Cean manufacture, the invention of a woman, forfemale use, was long admired both in the east and atRome. Whatever suspicions may be raised by the gar­ments of the Medes and Assyrians, Virgil is the mostancient writer, who expressly mentions the soft woolwhich was combed from the trees of the Seres or Chi­nese ;q and this natural error, less marvellous than thetruth, was slowly corrected by the knowledge of a valu­able insect, the first artificer "of the luxury of nations.That rare and elegant luxury was censured in the reign and satisfy the reader. I doubt whether his book, especially in England, is as wellknown as it deserves to be. ° Historical proofs of this jealousy hare been occasionally introduced, and manymore might have been added; but the arhitrary acts of despotism were justified bythe sober and general declarations of law. (Codex. Theodosian. lib. 10. tit. 2t. leg. 3.Codex. Justiniau. lib. 11. Lit. 8. leg 5.) An inglorious permission, and necessaryrestriction, was applied to the mimiE, the female-dancers. (Cod. Theodos. lib. 15. tit. 7.leg. 11.) P In the history of insects (far more wonderful than Ovid's Metamorphoses) thesilk-worm holds a conspicuous place. The bombyx of the isle of Ceos, as describedby Pliny (Hist. Natur. 11. 26, 27. with the notes of the two learned Jesuits, Har-duuin and Brotier), may be illustrated by a similar species in China (Memoires surles Chinois, tom. 2. p. 575—598.) ; but oor silk-worm, as well as the white mulberry-tree, were unknown to Theophrastus and Pliny. 1 Georgio. 2.121. Serica quando venerint in usum plauissime non scio : suspicortamen in Julii Caesaris aevo, nam ante non invenio, says Justus Lipsius. (Excursus 1.ad Tacit. Anual. 2. 32.) See Dion Cassius. (lib. -13. p. 358. edit.) Reiniar, andPausanias, (lib. 6. p. 519.) the first who describes, however strangely, the Serioinsect.