OCR Output Chap. XL WARS OF THE JEWS. „ 385 " rage, I will be ready to expose my own life for such a great" number as you are." Whereupon he dismissed the multitude,who prayed greatly for his prosperity ; and he took the .armyout of Ptolemais, and returned to Antioch ; from whencehe presently sent an epistle to Caesar, and informed him of theirruption he had made into Judea, and of the supplications of thenation ; and that unless he had a mind to lo'^e both the country,and the men in it, he must permit them to keep their law, andmust countermand his former injunction. Cams answered thatepistle in a violent way, and threatened to have Petronius putto death for his "being so tardy in the execution of what he hadcommanded. But it happened that those who brought Caius'sepistJe were tossed by a storm, and were detained on the sea forthree months, while others that brought the news of Caius'sdeath had a good voyage. Accordingly, Petronius received theepistle concerning'Caius seventand twenty days before he receivedthat which was against himself. CHAP. XI. Concerning tie government of Claudius, and the reign of Agrippa.Concerning the deaths of Agrippa, and of Hero J, and whatchildren they both left behind them* § 1. "VTOW when Caius had reigned three years and eight-L\ months, and had been slain by treachery, Claudiuswas hurried away by the armies that were at Rome to takethe government upon htm: but the senate' upon the reference ofthe consuls, Sentius Saturninus, and Pomponius Secundus, gaveorders to the three regiments of soldiers that stayed with them tokeep the city quiet, and went up into the capitol in great num­bers, and resolved to oppose Claudius by force, on account ofthe barbarous treatment they had met with from Caius ; andthey determined either to settle the nation under an aristocracy,as they had of old been governed, or at least to choose by votesuch an one for emperor as might be worthy of it. 2. Now it happened that at this time Agrippa sojourned atRome, and that both the senate called him to consult with them,and at the same time Claudius sent for him out of the camp,that he might be serviceable to him, as he should have occa­sion for his service. So he, perceiving that Claudius was ineffect made Caesar already, went to him, who sent him as anambassador to the senate, to let them know what his intentionswere : That " in the first place, it was without his seeking," that he was hurried away by the soldiers; moreover, that he" thought it was not just to desert those soldiers in such theirVOL. III. 3 C " zeal