OCR Output 282 THE DECLINE AND FALL tiom tion, by the respectful conduct which he always maintained to­wards the son of Valerian. With the general applause of theRomans and the consent of Gallienus, the senate conferred thetitle of Augustus on the brave Palmyrenian; and seemed to intrusthim with the government of the East, which he already possessed,in so independent a manner, that, like a private succession, he be­queathed it to his illustrious widow Zcnobia164.Fatal conse- The rapiJ and perpetual transitions from the cottage to the quences of t a * o tUese usurpa- throne, and from the throne to the grave, might have amused anindifferent philosopher j were it possible for a philosopher to remainindifferent amidst the general calamities of human kind. Theelection of these precarious emperors, their power and their death,were equally destructive to their subjects and adherents. The priceof their fatal elevation was instantly discharged to the troops, by animmense donative, drawn from the bowels of the exhausted people-However virtuous was their character, however pure their inten­tions, they found themselves reduced to the hard necessity of support­ing their usurpation by frequent acts of rapine and cruelty. Whenthey fell, they involved armies and provinces in their fall. There isstill extant a most savage mandate from Gallienus to one of hisministers, after the suppression of Ingenuus, who had assumed thepurple in Illyricum. "It is not enough," fays that soft but in­human prince, " that you exterminate such, as have appeared inM arms : the chance of battle might have served me as effectually..** The male sex of every age must be extirpated; provided that, in"the execution of the children and old men, you can contrive*' means to save our reputation. Let every one die who has droptu an expression, who has entertained a thought against me, against"me, the son of Valerian, the father and brother of so many"princes l6s. Remember that Ingenuus was made emperor: tear,"kill, hew in pieces. I write to you with my own hand, and«' would inspire you with my own feelings •66."' Whilst the public 4 forces