OCR Output B. III. * YEAR V. BEFORE CHRIST 427. 271 lany, or could persuade a well-designing person to it, wassure to be applauded. Men now, who were allied in blood, were less valued orcaressed, than such as were connected by voluntary combim -tion; since the latter, unscrupulous, and uninquisitive, weremore ready to embark in any scheme whatever. For now as­sociations were not formed for such mutual advantage as isconsistent with, but for the execution of such rapines as arecontrary to human laws. In mutual trust they persisted,not out of any regard to religious obligation, but from thebond of communicated guilt. To the fair and honest propo­sals of adversaries they hearkened indeed, when such by ac­tive strength could controul them, but never through candidingenuity. Revenge upon another was a more valued pos­session than never to have suffered injury. Oaths, if evermade for present reconciliation, had a temporary force, solong as neither knew how to break them ; but never wheneither party had power to abet their violation. He who, atinviting opportunity, durst first incur the perjury, if the ad­versary was off his guard, executed his rancour with higherspirit, than from enmity open and avowed. Such a step wasthought most secure ; and, because he had thus surpassed inguile, it was certainly extolled as a master-piece of cunning.Large is the number of villains, and such obtain more easilythe reputation of dexterity than their dupes can that of good­ness : The latter are apt to blush ; the former most impudent­ly triumph. The source of all these evils is a thirst of power, in con­sequence either of rapacious or ambitious passions. Themind, when actuated by such, is ever ready to engage inparty-feuds. For the men of large influence in communi­ties avowing on both sides a specious cause, some standingup for the just equality of the popular, others for the fairdecorum of the aristocratical government, by artful soundsembarrassed those communities for their own private lucre.Both sides, intent on victory, carried on the contention with