OCR Output POMPEIL 047 POMPEII. oimm: but his attention is directed principally'»lit circumstances of bis uncle's death and theiQasaau which he had himself witnessed,fan this time the name of Pompeii disappears■'■ n history. It is not noticed by Ptolemy; and iti ma that the city was never rebuilt But theee a spin fouiid in the Tabula; and it thus ap­ian that i small place must hare again arisen onis ate, or. more probably, in the neighbourhood, of■« bind city. Bat all trace of Pompeii was sub-ewntly kit; and in the middle ages its very site•a ourery forgotten, so that even the learned andiitji Cloreriua was unable to fix it with certainty, ■ na led to place it at Scn/ati on the Santo, aboutI sales L of its true position. This difficulty arose, ■ pat measure, from the great physical changes»iictd by the catastrophe of A. D. 79, whichinW the course of the Santo, so that it now■» c soma distance from Pompeii,—and at thea* time poshed forward the line of the coast, sohat the esty ia now above a mile distant from theat viict o ancient times undoubtedly bathed its Tbm ■ no reason to suppose that Pompeii in*wtf times ever rose above the rank of a second-aVfawraaaal town; but the re-discovery of it* buried■aas in the last century has given a celebrity toI sane exceeding that of the greatest cities. Theof its destruction were peculiarlyto the preservation of its remains. It» act overthrown by a torrent of lava, but simplyBas by a vast accumulation of volcanic sand, ashes,i enters (called by the Italians lapilli), whicha» a mass of a very light, dry, and porous**■'-■ At the same time, it is almost certain * the present accumulation of this volcanic de­ll ('tuch is in most places 15 feet in depth) did place at once, but was formed by successivepans; and there ia little doubt that the ruins • •arched and the moat valuable objects removed | soon after the catastrophe took place. This seemsto be proved by the small number of objects of in­trinsic value (such as gold and silver plate) thathave been discovered, as well as by the fact thatcomparatively few skeletons have been found, thoughit appears certain, from the expressions of DionCassius, that great numbers of the inhabitantsperished; nor have any of these been found in thetheatre, where it is probable that the greatest loss oflife occurred. It was not till 1748 that an accidental discoverydrew attention to the remains of Pompeii; and in 1755regular excavations on the site were first commencedby the Neapolitan government, which have beencarried on ever since, though with frequent intervalsand interruptions. It is impossible for us here evento attempt to give any account of the results of theseexcavations and the endless variety of interestingremains that have been brought to light. We shallconfine ourselves to those points which bear moreimmediately on the topography and character of thetown of Pompeii, rather than on the general habits,life, and manners of ancient times. More detailedaccounts of the remains, and the numerous objectswhich have been discovered in the course of the ex­cavations, especially the works of art, will be foundin the great work of Mazois (Let Ruines de Pompeii,continued by Gau, 4 vols. fbL, Paris, 1812—1838),and in the two works of Sir W. Gell (Pompeiana,1 st series, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1824; 2nd series, 2 vols.8vo. 1830); also in the little work published bythe Society of Useful Knowledge (Pompeii, 2 vols.12mo. 1831). A recent French publication by Breton(Pompeia, 8vo. Paris, 1855), also gives a good ac­count of the wholo progress and results of the dis­coveries (including the most recent excavations) ina moderate compass and inexpensive form. Thestill more recent work of Overbeck (8vo. Lcipzic,1856), of which the first part only has yet appeared,contains an excellent compendium of the whole sub- OKSKKAL PLAJS OF l'UMFiai. 1 i 4le of Herculane ,m.1 <M4t a/ Vesuvius."I'xtr of < 11 '11t <d Sol-. a i.acotibc SavBtia.( Gueofaiauue. 7. Gate of the Theatres. 8. Modern eulrance to the citj. 9. Forum. 10. Theatres. 11. AmpUillieatrr. IS. Stieet o{ tuo Tombs. T T 4