OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 113 drunkenness, when they were scattered with a profusehand among the populace. Notwithstanding these pre­cautions and his own example, the succession of consulsfinally ceased in the thirteenth year of Justinian, whosedespotic temper might be gratified by the silent extinctionof a title which admonished the Romans of their ancientfreedom." Yet the annual consulship still lived in theminds of the people: they fondly expected its speedyrestoration; they applauded the gracious condescensionof successive princes, by whom it was assumed in thefirst year of their reign; and three centuries elapsed,after the death of Justinian, before that obsolete dignity,which had been suppressed by custom, could be abolishedby law/ The imperfect mode of distinguishing eachyear by the name of a magistrate, was usually suppliedby the date of a permanent era: the creation of theworld, according to the Septuagint version, was adoptedby the Greeks ;y and the Latins, since the age of Charle­magne, have computed their time from the birth ofChrist.2 11 Procopios, in Anecdot. c. 26. Aleman. p. 106. In the eighteenth year after theconsulship of Basilins, according to the reckoning of Marcellinus, Victor, Marias,&e. the secret history was composed, and, in the eyes of Frocopias, the consulshipwas finally abolished. * By Leo the philosopher. (Novell. 94. A. D. 886—911.) SeePagi (Dissertat.Hypatica, p. 3125—362.), and Diicange, (Gloss. Graec. p. 1635,1636.) Even thetitle was vilified; consulates oodicilli . . . . vilescnnt, says the emperor himself. v According to Julius Africanus, &c. the world was created the first of September,five thousand five hundred and eight years, three months, and twenty-five days be­fore the hirth of Christ; (see Pezron, Antiquite des Tems defendiie, p. 20—28.) andtins era has been used by the Greeks, the Oriental Christians, and even by the Rus­sians, till the reign of Peter I. The period, however arhitrary, is clear and conve­nient. Of the seven thousand two hundred and ninety-six years, which are supposedto elapse since the creation, we shall find three thousand of ignorance and darkness;two thousand either fabulous or doubtful; one thousand of ancient history, commenc­ing with the Persian empire, and the republics of Rome and Athens; one thousandfrom the fall of the Roman empire in the west to the discovery of America; and theremaining two hundred and ninety-six will almost complete three centuries of themodern state of Europe and mankind. I regret this chronology so far preferable toour double and perplexed method of counting hackward and forward the years before:and after the Christian era. 1 The era of the world has prevailed in the east since the sixth general council.(A. D. 681.) In the west the Christian era was first invented in the sixth century:it was propagated in the eighth by the authority and writings of venerable Bede; hatit was not till the tenth that the use became legal and popular. See l'Art de verifierles Dates, Dissert. Preliminaire, p. 3.12. Dictionaire Diplomatique, tom. 1. p. 329 oo7. the works of a laborious society of Benedictine monks.