OCR Output 68 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. He loved glory, as the reward, perhaps as the mo-Xv' tive, of his labours. The boundless ambition, which,from the moment of his accepting the purple atYork, appears as the ruling passion of his soul, maybe justified by the dangers of his own situation, bythe character of his rivals, by the consciousness ofsuperior merit, and by the prospect that his successwould enable him to restore peace and order to thedistracted empire. In his civil wars against Maxen-tius and Licinius, he had engaged on his side theinclinations of the people, who compared the un-dissembled vices of those tyrants, with the spirit ofwisdom and justice which seemed to direct the ge­neral tenor of the administration of Constantine*.His vices. Had Constantine fallen on the banks of the Tyber,or even in the plains of Hadrianople, such is thecharacter which, with a few exceptions, he mighthave transmitted to posterity. But the conclusion, of his reign (according to the moderate and indeedtender sentence of a writer of the same age) degradedhim from the rank which he had acquired amongthe most deserving of the Roman princes. In thelife of Augustus, we behold the tyrant of the re­public, converted, almost by imperceptible degrees,into the father of his country and of human kind.In that of Constantine, we may contemplate a hero,who had so long inspired his subjects with love, andhis enemies with terror, degenerating into a crueland dissolute monarch, corrupted by his fortune, orraised by conquest above the necessity of dissimula-A. D. tion. The general peace which he maintained during323—337. ^e lasj. fourteen years 0f \x[s reign was a period of apparent splendour rather than of real prosperity;and the old age of Constantine was disgraced by the • The virtues of Constantine are collected for the most part frorn Eutropius,and the younger Victor, two sincere pagans.1 who wrote ,after the extinction ofhis family. Even Zosimus, and the Emperor Julian, acknowledge his personalcourage and military achievements.