OCR Output 80 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. V some decennia after the time of the Gracchi among not morethan eighty-four lessees, to each of whom there thus fell onan average 360 jugera, and among whom only one was a Leon-tine; the rest were foreign, mostly Romau, speculators. Wesee from this instance, with what zeal the Roman speculatorsthere walked in the footsteps of their predecessors, and whatextensive dealings in Sicilian cattle and Sicilian slave-cornmust have been carried on by the Roman and non-Romanspeculators who covered the beautiful island with their pas­tures and plantations. Italy however still remained forthe present substantially exempt from this worst form ofslave-husbandry. Although in Etruria, where the planta­tion system seems to have first emerged in Italy, and whereit existed most extensively at any rate forty years after­wards, it is extremely probable that even now ergastula werenot wanting; yet Italian agriculture at this epoch was stillchiefly carried on by free persons or at any rate by un­chained slaves, while the greater labours were frequentlylet to contractors. The difference between Italian andSicilian slavery is very clearly apparent from the fact, thatthe slaves of the Mamertiue community, which lived afterthe Italian fashion, were the only slaves who did not take135-132. part in the Sicilian servile revolt of 619-622. The abyss of misery and woe, which opens before our eyesin this most miserable of all proletariates, we leave to befathomed by those who venture to gaze into such depths; itis very possible that, compared with the sufferings of the Ro­man slaves, the sum of all Negro suffering is but a drop. Herewe are not so much concerned with the distress of the slavesthemselves as with the perils which it brought upon theRoman state, and with the conduct of the government inconfronting them. It was plain that this proletariate hadnot been called into existence by the government and couldnot be directly set aside by it; this could only have beenaccomplished by remedies, which would have been stillworse than the disease. The duty of the government wassimply, on the one hand, to avert the direct danger toproperty and life, with which the slave-proletariate threat-'ened the members of the state, by an earnest system of precautionary police; and on the other hand, to aim at the'restriction of the proletariate, as far as possible, by the elevation of free labour. Let us see how the Romanaristocracy executed these two tasks.