OCR Output 86 THE REFORM MOVEMENT [Book IV. an impression on the courts of the East and even on thescoffing Alexandrians. His Hellenism was especially recog­nizable in the delicate irony of his discourse and in the classicpurity of his Latin. Although not strictly an author, he yet,like Cato, committed to writing "his political speeches,—they were, like the letters of his adopted sister the motherof the Gracchi, esteemed by the later litteratores as master­pieces of model prose—and took pleasure in surroundinghimself with the better Greek and Roman litterati, a plebeiansociety which was doubtless regarded with no small sus­picion by those colleagues in the senate whose noble birthwas their sole distinction. A man morally steadfast andtrustworthy, his word held good with friend and foe;he avoided buildings and speculations, and lived withsimplicity; and in money matters he acted not merelyhonourably and disinterestedly, but also with a tendernessand liberality which seemed singular to the mercantile spiritof his contemporaries. He was an able soldier and officer;he brought home from the African war the honorary wreathwhich was wont to be conferred on such as saved thelives of citizens in danger at the peril of their own, andterminated as general the war which he had begun as anofficer; circumstances gave him no opportunity of tryinghis skill as a general on tasks really difficult. Scipio wasnot, any more than his father, a man of genius—as is indi­cated by the very fact of his predilection for Xenophon, thesober soldier and correct author—but he was an honestand true man, who seemed pre-eminently called to stem theincipient decay by organic reforms. All the more signifi­cant is the fact, that he did not attempt it. It is true thathe helped, as he had means and opportunity, to redress orprevent abuses, and laboured in particular at the improve­ment of the administration of justice. It was chiefly by hisassistance that Lucius Oassius, an able man of the old Romanausterity and uprightness, was enabled to carry against themost vehement opposition of the Optimates his law as tovoting, which introduced vote by ballot for those popular tri­bunals which still embraced the most important part of thecriminal jurisdiction (P. 73). In like manner, althoughhe had not chosen to take part in boyish impeachments, hehimself in his mature years put upon their trial severalof the guiltiest of the aristocracy. In a like spirit, whencommanding before Carthage and Numantia, he drove forth