OCR Output Chap. X.] THE SULLAN CONSTITUTION. 363 were restored and partially raised. The limit of age requi- Regulatingsite for the holding of each office was enforced afresh; as was ofthequali-also the enactment that every candidate for the consulship (i«ltions forshould have previously held the praetorship, and every can­didate for the praetorship should have previously held thequaestorship, whereas the aedileship was allowed to be passedover. The various attempts that had been recently made toestablish a tyrannis under the form of a consulship continuedfor several successive years led to special rigour in dealingwith this abuse; and it was enacted that at least two yearsshould elapse between the holding of one magistracy andthe holding of another, and at least ten years should elapsebefore the same office could be held a second time. In thislatter enactment the earlier ordinance of 412 (i. 321) was 342.revived, instead of the absolute prohibition of all re-electionto the consulship which had been the favourite of the mostrecent ultra-oligarchical epoch (P. 72). On the whole,however, Sulla left the elections to take their course, andsought merely to fetter the authority of the magistrates insuch a way that—let the incalculable caprice of the comitiacall to office whomsoever it might—the person elected shouldnot be in a position to rebel against the oligarchy. The supreme magistrates of the state were at this period Weakeningpractically the three colleges of the tribunes of the people, of the tri-the consuls and praetors, and the censors. They all emerged ?^mte ,from the Sullan restoration with materially diminishedrights; more especially the tribunician office, which appearedto the regent an instrument indispensable doubtless forsenatorial government, but yet—as generated by revolutionand having a constant tendency to generate fresh revolutionsin its turn—requiring to be rigorously and permanentlyshackled. The tribunician authority had arisen out of theright to annul the official acts of the magistrates by veto, and,eventually, to fine any one who should oppose that right andto take steps for his further punishment; this was still leftto the tribunes, excepting that a heavy fine, destroying as arule a man's civil status, was imposed on the abuse of theright of intercession. The further prerogative of the tri­bune to have access to the people at pleasure, partly for thepurpose of making communications to them, partly for thepurpose of submitting laws to be voted on, had been the leverby which the Gracchi, Saturniuus, and Sulpicius had revo­lutionized the state; it was not abolished, but its exercise