OCR Output 238 ROMAN EMPIRE. rejected by the applause or clamour of the Romanpeople. But the election was imperfect; nor couldthe pontiff be legally consecrated till the emperor, theadvocate of the church, had graciously signified hisapprobation and consent The royal commissionerexamined, on the spot, the form and freedom of theproceedings: nor was it, till after a previous scrutinyinto the qualifications of the candidates that he acceptedan oath of fidelity, and confirmed the donations whichhad successively enriched the patrimony of St. Peter.In the frequent schisms, the rival claims were submit­ted to the sentence of the emperor, and in a synod ofbishops he presumed to judge, to condemn, and topunish, the crimes of a guilty pontiff. Otho I. imposeda treaty on the senate and people, who engaged to pre­fer the candidate most acceptable to his majesty;ra hissuccessors anticipated or prevented their choice: theybestowed the Roman benefice, like the bishoprics ofCologne or Bamberg, on their chancellors or precep­tors: and whatever might be the merit of a Frank orSaxon, his name sufficiently attests the interposition offoreign power. These acts of prerogative were mostspeciously excused by the vices of a popular election.The competitor who had been excluded by the cardi­nals, appealed to the passions or avarice of the multi­tude: the Vatican and the Lateran were stained withblood; and the most powerful senators, the marquisesof Tuscany and the counts of Tusculum, held the apos- tolic see in a long and disgraceful servitude. The Roman pontiffs, of the ninth and tenthcenturies, were insulted, imprisoned, and murdered, by The cardinal-bishops, so highly exalted by Peter Damianus, are sunk to a levelwith the rest of the sacred college. '" Firmiter jurantes,nunquam se papam electuros ant ordinaturos, prater censen-simi et electionem Othonis et filii sin. (Liutprand, lib. 6. c. 6. p. 472.) This import­ant concession may either supply or confirm the decree of the clergy and people ofRome, sO fiercely rejected by Baronius, Fagi, and Muratori, (A. J). 964.) a»d sowell defended and explained by St. Marc. (Abreg£, torn. 2. p. 80S—816. torn. 4.p. 1167—1185.) Consult that historical critic, and the annals of Muratori, forthe election and confirmation of each pope.