OCR Output 68 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. on the frontiers and the pirates. When the central govern­ment renounced all superintendence and all oversight of pro­vincial affairs, it entirely abandoned not only the interestsof the subjects, but also those of the state, to the governorof the day. The events which occurred in Spain, unimpor­tant in themselves, are instructive in this respect. In thatcountry, where the government was less able than in otherprovinces to confine itself to the part of a mere onlooker,the law of nations was directly trampled under foot by theRoman governors; and the honour of Some was permanentlydragged in the mire by a perfidy and faithlessness withoutparallel, by the most wanton trifling with capitulations andtreaties, by massacring men who had submitted and insti­gating the assassination of the generals of the enemy. Norwas this all; war was even waged and peace concludedagainst the expressed will of the supreme authority in Rome,and unimportant incidents, such as the disobedience of theNumantines, were developed by a rare combination of per­versity and folly into a crisis of fatal moment for the state.And all this took place without any effort to visit it witheven a serious penalty in Rome. The sympathies and rival­ries of the different coteries in the senate contributedto determine the filling up of the most important placesand the treatment of the most momentous political ques­tions; and even thus early the money of foreign dynastsfound its way to the senators of Rome. Timarchus, the164. envoy of Antiochus Epiphanes king of Syria (+ 590),ismen-tioned as the first who attempted with success to bribe theRoman senate; the bestowal of presents from foreign kingson influential senators soon became so common, that surprisewas excited when Scipio .32milianus cast into the militarychest the gifts from the king of Syria which reached himin camp before Numantia. The ancient principle, thatrule was its own sole reward and that such rule was as mucha duty and a burden as a privilege and a benefit, was allowedto fall into abeyance. Thus there arose the new political eco­nomy, which desisted from the taxation of the burgesses, butregarded the body of subjects, on the other hand, as a pro­fitable possession of the community, which it partly workedout for the public benefit, partly handed over to be workedout by the burgesses. Not only was free scope allowed withcriminal indulgence to the unscrupulous greed of the Romanmerchant in the provincial administration, but even the