OCR Output SOMA. 721 ROMA. m the southern one ; but they were afterwardsas one hill, in order not to exceed thei-wnplive number of seven. S. of the Esquilinen Man Caeiiua, the Urgent of the seven; and to t heC of at Mora Aventinus, the next largest, the NW.<.r it which closely borders on the Tiber. In thesail of tins garland of hills lies the lozenge-shapedIn Palatums, facing on the NW. towards the«ai»me, on the NE. towards the Etquiline, on theI luwarox the Caelian, and on the SW. towards ■ Atmine. ;i may be observed that, of the seven hills abovearaVe, the Quirinal and Viminal are styled collet,ntlat the others, though without any apparent reasonr im dnlincti.ni, are called montet. It cannot de-mi apon their height, since those called collet arei l/:y as those dignified with the more im|>osingt~- .1 T*mtfj; whence it 6eems probable that theaVreact <riginated in the ancient traditions re-r- imr; the Septimontium. A leas important emi-■re, tailed Velia, which was not reckoned as<xt.sKt bill, projected from the NE. side of thetowards the Esquiline, and separated then lairys which in after times became the sites of! i'nza Komanum and of the Colosseum. Thei-.-a^ua was another but still smaller ofishoot, ornr, *f the Palatine, on its western side. Oa the of posite bank of the Tiber, Mons Vaticanus(1 >1 as J.iciculus rise, as before remarked, to ai ..^ally greater height than the bills just de-rhni. The former of these lies opposite to thea. -m. but at a considerable distance from ther*r thes leaving a level space, part of which wastiae Agar Vaticanus, whilst the portion nearest • mar obtained the name of Pratu Quinclia. Tot - A M (is Vaticanus. and close to the river, atr 'i:rerce western point of its first reach, theass Jajucuroa begins to rise, and runs almosta. rtst to the S. till it sinks into the plain oppositey. ;j Areotinas. The open space between thisI i-jI the southernmost curve of the Tiber formedi Lt*» Tmxtttiberina. The sinuous course of thevr trvm the Pincian to the Capitoliue left a stilln extensive plain between its left bank and the 4 &"tne, the northern and more extcosivc por-a { which tanned the Campus Martius, whilst itsoaera part, towards the Capitoliue, was called theiu FlaaiiBha. } -« the preceding description it will be per--] ti_ai the Capitoline, Aventine, Caelian, and Ul.se were completely isolated hills, separated rm <*mt aar.ber by narrow valleys. Thoso valleysc. ~«y nearest the Tiber seein, in their original la. *o harre formed a niarah, or even a lake. Such * the Valias Marcia, between the l'alatiue andex*-x<e, m later times the seat of the Circus Max- ■: m well ma the low ground between the Pala-> aasi river, afterward.-, known as the Velabrum f warn Bomriom ; and perhaps even part of the•id Kaanauvujn itself. Thus, in the combat be--r. 'j.-* Kenans and Subincis on the spot aflcr-e» aocapied by the forum, the affrighted horseaVrtias Curtius, the Sabine leader, is described-t .ng him into a marsh. (Liv. L 12.)r. Lnrre are ground* for believing that the Tiber,tm neighbourhood of Borne, fanned at a very re-<■ ^thW an ann of the sea, as pure marine sandbra xoand there. (Niebuhr, LtcL on Ethnogr. a- »- » ■) . , . -rrVr to aasiat the reader in forming a cleari the nature of the Human hills, we shall here insert a few measurements. They are taken from apaper by Sir George Schukburg in the "Philoso­phical Transactions," An. 1777 (vol. lxvii. pt. 2.p. 594), and have been esteemed the most accurate.(Becker, Ilcmdhuch, vol. i. p. 83, note.) Othermeasurements by Calandrelli are also annexed. Thelatter are according to the Paris foot, which equals12 785 inches Knglish. Height above the Mediterranean: — Feet. Janiculum, near the Villa Spada - 260Aventine, near Priory of Malta • - 117Palatine, Boor of imperial palace - - 133Caelian, near the Claudian aqueduct - 125Esquiline, floor of & Maria Maggiore 154Capitoline, YY. end of the Tarpeian ruck 118Viminal and Quirinal at their junction, inthe Carthusian church, baths of Dio­cletian ..... 141Pincian, garden of the Villa Medici - 165 Tiber, above the Mediterranean - 33Convent of St. Clare in the I'lade'Spec- cAi 27 Forum, near the arch of Scverus - - 34 Measurements from Calandrelli, in his and Conti'sOpaicoli attronomici e jitici (op. Sachse, Getch.da- Stadt Rom, vol. i. p. 697): — Parli feet Janiculum, floor of the church of S. Pie-tro in Montorio (not the highest point of the hill) 185 Aventine, floor of S. A lettio - - 146 Palatine, floor of <S. Bottactntura - 160 Caelian, floor of 5. Giovanni Laternno 158 Esquiline, floor of 5. Maria Maggiore - 177 Capitol, floor of 5. Maria a" Araceli - 151 Viminal, floor of S. Lorenzo - - 160 Quirinal, Palazzo Quirinale - - 148 Pincian, floor of 5. Trinila de' Monti - 150 Vatican, floor of S. J'ietro 93 In ancient times, however, the hills must have ap­peared considerably higher than they do at present,as the valleys are now raised in many places from15 to 20 feet above their former level, and in someparts much more. (Lnmisden, Ant. of Home, p.137.) This remark is more particularly appli­cable to the forum, which is covered with rubbi>h toa great depth; a-circumstance which detracts muchfrom tiie apparent height of the Capitoline; whosesides, too, must formerly have been much moreabrupt and precipitous than they now are. Themuch superior heipht of the Janiculum to that of anyof the hills on the W. bank of the Tiber, will havebeen remarked. Hence it enjoyed a noble pro-pectover the whole extent of the city and the Campagnabeyond, to the mountains which bound the easternhorizon. The view has been celebrated by Martial(iv. 64), and may be still enjoyed either from thoterrace in front of S. Pietro in Montorio, or fromthe spot where the Pontana Paolina now pours itsabundant waters :— "Hinc septem dominos videre montesEt totam licet aestimare Humam,Albanos quoque Tusculosque collesEt quudcunque jacet sub urbe frigus." Cl.IJLVTE. The climate of Romo appears to have beenmuch colder in ancient times than it is at pre- 3 A