OCR Output 3»0 MYS1US. MYTILENE. civilisation. Their language was, according toStrabo (xii. p. 572), a mixture of Lydian andPhryginn, that is, perhaps, a dialect akin to both ofthcin. Their comparatively low state of civilisation(■coma also to be indicated by the armour attributedto them by Herodotus (vii. 74), which consisted ofa common helmet, a small shield, and a javelin, thel*iint ot which was hardened by fire. At a laterliine, the influence of the Greeks by whom theywere surrounded seems to have dono away witheverything that was pecidiar to them as a natiou,and to have drawn them into the sphere of Greekcivilisation. (Cimip. Korbiger, llandbuch der alienGmi/rnp/tie, vol. ii. p. 110, &c.; Cramer, AsiaMim>r, i. p. 30, Stc.; Xiebuhr, Lect on Ar.c. Hist.vol. i. p. 83, &c.) [L. S.] MY'Sll'S (Mvmoj), a tributary of the Cuicus, onthe frontiers of Mysia, having its sources on MountTemnus, and joining the C.'iicus in the neighbour-hood of I'ergamum. (Strab. xiii. p. 616.) Ac­cording to Ovid (Mtt. xv. 277) Mysius was onlyanother name for Caicus, whence some have inferred1 hat the upjicr part of the Caicus was actually calledMysius. It is generally believed that the Mysius isthe same as the moileru Ht-rgma. [L. ,S.] MYSOCAliAS (KvtroKipas, Ptol. iv. 1. § 3),a harbour on the W. coast of Maurctania, near thel'huth, probably the same as the Cabicus Mi'Rtis(Kaputliv t«xoi) of Hnnno (p. 2, ed. Hudson;comp. Kphor. ap. Steph. B. s. r.), now Aghovs, nearthe Watl Tensift, where Kcnou* map of Maroccomarks ruins. (Geog. Graze. Min. vol. i. p. 4, ed.Miiller, Paris, 1855.) f E. Ii. J.] MYSOMACE'DOXES (Muiro^ax.Sowi), a tribeof the Mysinus, probably occupying the districtabout the sources of the small river Mysius. (Ptol.v. 2. $ 15; 1'lin. v. 31.) In tin- time of theItalians this tribe belonged to the conventus ofKphesus; but further particulars arc not known ofthem. [L.S] MY'STIA (Mirtrrfa: Elk. Muo-T«u«Sr: AlunatU-race), ii town of Bruttrum, which seems to havebeen situated on the E. coast of that province, be­tween Scylacium and the Zcphyrian promontory,apparently not far from Cape Cocinthus (Capo diSlilo). (Mela, ii. 4. § 8; riin. iii. 10. s. 15.)■Stephanus of Byzantium cites I'lulistus as calling ita city of tlie Samnites, by which he must evidentlymean their Lucanian or Bruttian descendants. (Steph.B. s. v.) Its position cannot be more exactly deter­mined, but it is placed conjocturally at Monasterace,near the Ca\m di Stilo. (Oluver. Hal. p. 1305;Romanelli, vol. i. p. 175.) [E. H. B.] MYTHETOLlSor.YIYTIIO'POLIl>(Mv*tyr°A<>,Mi/tMiroAis), a town of Bilhynia, of uncertain bite,though it was probably situated on the north-westside of the Lacus Asrania, It is said that duringthe winter all the artiticial wells of the place werecompletely drained of water, but that in summer theybecame filled again to the brim. (Aristot. Mir. Ause.55; Autig. Caryst. 188.) Stephanus Byz. (?. r.rioOdiroAir) and I'liny (v. 43) mention a townof the name of Pythopolis in Mysia, which may pos-siblv be the same as Mvthopolis. [L. S.J MYTILENE or MITYLE'NE (MirriA>>n or Mi-ToAiJKfl: Eth. MvTtXrjvaiox or Mivi/Anvcuor), themost im|>ortant city in the island of Lesbos. Tliereis some uncertainty about the orthography of thename. Coins arc unanimous in favour of Mi/tiA^kij.Inscriptions vary. Greek manuscripts have gene­rally, but not univertally, MiruA^n). Latin uinnu- scripts hare generally Mitylene; but Velleiui Pa-terculus, Pomponius Mela, and sometime* I'liny.have Mytilene. In some cases we find the Latiaplural form Mitylcnae. (Suet. Cars. 2. Tib. 10;Liv. EpU. 89.) Tacitus has tlie adjective Myti-Icnensis (Ann. xiv. 53). It is generally agreednow that the word ought to be written Mytilene;but it does uot seem necessary to alter those pas-sagos where tlie evidence of JISS. preponderates Urnother way. A full discussion of this subject maybe seen in l'lehn ( Ltibiacorum Liber). The modemcity is called MitgUn, and sometime** Ctutro, The chief inu-rest of the history of Lcsau* aconcentrated in Mytileue. Its eminence is evidewtfrom its lung series of coins, not only in the aat»-nomons periixl, when they often bore the legendnPHTH AECBOT MTTIAHNH, but m the inv-prrial period down to the reign of Gallieoua. Loisa.from the earliest to the lalcst times, has been themost distinguished city of the island, whether weconsider the history of poetry or politics, or th«annals of naval warfare and commercial enterprise. One reason of the continued pre-eminence ofMytilene is to be found in its situation, which («•common will] tliat of Mktiiymxa) wm fiuroorahwto the coasting trade, its harbours, too, appear tthave been excellent Originally it was built upoo asmall island; and thus (whether the small iriaoswere united to the main island by a causeway t*not) two harbours were formed, one oo the rsrthand the other on the south. The former of thesewas the harbour for ships of war, and was capableof being closed, and of contaiuing fifty triremes,the latter was the mercantile harbour, and waslarger and deeper, and defended by a mole. (Strab.xiii. p. 617; l'aus. viii. 30.) The best elucidationof its situation in reference to the sea will be 1* uasin tlie narratives contained in the 3rd book of TLscj-dides and the 1st book of Xenophon's Uelir*mi.The northern harbour seems to have been rabiesMaAdfis [Malka]. This harmonises with whatwe find in Thucydides, and with what AristeOsays concerning the action of the NE. wind (aauiiai)on Mytilene. The statements of Xenopbo«i art tarfrom clear, unless, with Mr. Grote (Hut. of Grrstr.vol. viii. p. 230), we suppiue the Euripm UMytilene to te that ann of the sea which we has*mentioned, in the article LnmiS, under lbsname of l'ortus Hieraeus, anil which runs up suathe interior of the island, to tbe very neighbour­hood of Mytilene. A rude plan is given by Tvoroe-fort; but for accurate informal in the English Ad­miralty charts must be consulted. The bra*-'/of the ancient city, and tlie strength of its fo-t_-fications, are celebrated both by Greek and lirr-aswriters. (See especiallyCic. c. RvlL ii. 16.) I'luUrramentions a theatre (1'i'inp. 42), and Atbrcseaia Prytaneium (x. p. 425). Vitmrina an (l 6)licit the winds were very troublesome in the hsvtssarand in the streets, and thut the changes of wvmlhrrwere injurious to health. Tbe products of the mCnear Mytilene do net seem to have been disua-guislied by any very remarkable prruliantios.Theophravtus and Pliny nuke ineutbon »>f its mush­rooms : Galen says that its wine was inferior to tialof Methymna. In illustraliou of tbe appraraaor <4Mytilene, as seen from tlie sea, we may refer !•• aview iu Choiscul-GoutBrr; and to another. »b> fcshows the fine forms of the moiiDtains miite4ist*-lybehind, in Convbeare and Howson's U\ft ami Eff.of St. I'atU.