OCR Output Chap. IV.J THK. RULE OF THE RESTORATION. 137 decorum in injustice. This aristocracy had been overthrownand then restored; henceforth there rested on it the curse ofrestoration. While the aristocracy had formerly governedas it chose and for more than a century without any sensibleopposition, the crisis which it had now passed through re­vealed to it, like a flash of lightning in a dark night, theabyss which yawned before its feet. Was it any wonder thathenceforward rancour always, and terror wherever they durstattempt it, characterized the government of the lords of theold nobility? that those who governed confronted as anunited and compact party, with far more rudeness and vio­lence than hitherto, the non-governing multitude? thatfamily-policy now prevailed afresh, just as in the worst timesof the patriciate, so that e.g. the four sons and (probably)1 the two nephews of Quintus Metellus—with a single excep­tion persons utterly insignificant and some of them called tooffice on account of their very simplicity—attained withinfifteen years (631-645) all of them to the consulship, and all 123-109.with one exception also to triumphs—to say nothing of sons-in-law and so forth? that the more violent and cruel thebearing of any of their partisans towards the opposite party,he received the more signal honour, and every outrage andevery infamy were pardoned in the genuine aristocrat? thatthe governors and the governed resembled two parties atwar in every respect, save in the fact that in their warfareno international law was recognized? It was unhappilyonly too palpable that, if the old aristocracy beat the peoplewith rods, this restored aristocracy chastised it with scor­pions. It returned to power; but it returned neitherwiser nor better. Never hitherto had the Roman aristo­cracy been so utterly deficient in men of statesmanly andmilitary capacity, as it was during this epoch of restorationbetween the Gracchan and the Cinnan revolutions. A significant illustration of this is afforded by the chief of Marcusthe senatorial party at this time, Marcus jEmilius Scaurus. ^miliusThe son of highly noble but not wealthy parents and there- Scaurus.fore compelled to make use of his far from mean talents, heraised himself to the consulship (639) and censorship (645), 115. 109.was long the chief of the senate and the political oracle of hisorder, and immortalized his name not only as an orator andauthor, but also as the originator of some of the principalpublic buildings executed in this century. But, if we lookat him more closely, his greatly praised achievements amount