OCR Output 4is TITUS LIVIUS' Boon V. tcrest, to divert the public odium from themselves, ranopen mouthed against Sergiusand Virginius, the mititarytribunes of the former year, and cited them to take theirtrial. They made open proclamation, ' That to such asgroaned under the burden of taxes, levies, a tediouscampaign, and the prolongation of the war; who la­menied the loss of their children, brothers, kinsmen,and friends, that fatal day at Veii, they offered a fairoccasion to avenge themselves and the public, uponthe heads of two persons, Sergius and Virginius, whowere equally culpable and responsible.for all the mis­fortunes that had happened. Nor did this appear moreevidently from the indictment laid against them by theprosecutor, than the confession of ihe criminals, whobeing equally conscious each of his own guilt, had laidthe blame upon one another, Virginius reproachingSergius with cowardice, and Sergius retorting on Vir­ginius, his treachery.' That it was impossible theycould have acted a part so shamefully inconsistent,without the concurrence of the fathers, who were inconcert, and equally fraudulent with them. With aview to protract the war, they had before that timegiven the Vejentes an opportunity of setting fire totheir works; that now they had sacrificed the army,and delivered up the Roman camp to the Falisci. Thattheir whole plan was to keep the youth, till they grewgray, before Veii, that the tribunes might not have itin their power to bring in a bill about the partition oflands, or any thing else respecting the interest of thecommons, as they had not a sufficient number of citizensto support their bills, and make head against the in­trigues of the nobles. That these delinquents hadsentence already passed against them by the senate,the Roman people, and by their own colleagues. Forby a decree of the senate, they were set aside as magi­strates, and when they refused to abdicate in terms ofthat order; they were compelled to do it by their col-leagues, for fear of a dictator. Nor was this all, forthe Roman people proceeded to make a new election,not as usual, on the 13th of December, but iostautly onthe 1 st of October; because, had they continued anylonger in office, this republic must have sunk at »nce.