OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 185 a commander. Seeing so great a multitude collectedround him, he said, 'My intention is to enlist only fourthousand foot, and six hundred horse: such of you asgive in your names to-day and to-morrow I will carrywith me. I am more solicitous to bring home all mysoldiers rich than to employ a great multitude.' Ac­cordingly, with a competent number of men, who pos­sessed greater hopes and confidence, because a nume­rous army had not been required, he marched to thetown of Aharna, from which the enemy were not fardistant, and proceeded to the camp of the pretor Ap-pius. When be came within a few miles of it, he wasmet by some soldiers sent to cut wood, attended by aguard. Observing the lictors preceding him, and learn­ing that he was Fabius the consul, they were filled withjoy; and expressed warm thanks to the gods, and tothe Roman people, for having sent them such a com­mander. Then, as they gathered round to pay theirrespects, Fabius inquired whither they were going ;and on their answering they were going to providewood; 'What do you tell me,' said he; 'have younot a rampart raised about your camp?'—' They had,'they replied, ' a double rampart and a trench ; and,notwithstanding, were in great apprehension.' ' Well,then,' said he, ' you have abundance of wood ; go backand level the rampart.' They accordingly returned tothe camp; and there levelling the rampart, threw thesoldiers who had remained in it, and Appius himself,into the greatest fright, until, with eager joy, eachcalled out to the rest that ' they acted by order of theconsul, Quintus Fabius.' Next day they decamped,and the pretor Appius was dismissed to Rome. Fromthat time the Romans had no fixed post; the consulaffirming that it was prejudicial to an army to lie inone spot; and that by frequent marches, and changingplaces, it was rendered more healthy, and more capa­ble of brisk exertions: and this he practised as long asthe season permitted, tlie winter being not yet ended.Then, in the beginning of spring, leaving the secondlegion near Clusium, which they formerly called the