OCR Output aN. 1532.J 79 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. a song unto God, containing his praises, anda thanksgiving for his kindness, in hexameterverse. As for myself, I have delivered every partof this history as I found it in the sacredbooks; nor let any one* wonder at thestrangeness of the narration, if a way werediscovered to those men of old time, whowere free from the wickedness of the modernages, whether it happened by the will of God,or whether it happened of its own accord;while, for the sake of those that accompaniedAlexander, king of Macedonia, who yet livedcomparatively but a little while ago, thePamphylian sea retired, and afforded them apassage through itself, when they had noother way to go; I mean, when it was the will of God to destroy the monarchy of the Per­sians; and this is confessed to be true by allthat have written about the actions of Alex­ander; but as to these events let every onedetermine as he pleases. On the next day Moses gathered togetherthe weapons of the Egyptians, which werebrought to the camp of the Hebrews by thecurrent of the sea, and the force of the windsassisting it; and he conjectured that this alsohappened by Divine providence, that so theymight not be destitute of weapons. So whenhe had ordered the Hebrews to arm them­selves with them, he led them to Mount Sinai,in order to offer sacrifice to God, and to ren­der oblations for the salvation of the multi­tude, as he had been previously commanded. * Take here the original passages of the four old authorsthat still remain, as to the transit of Alexander the Greatover the Pamphylian Sea, (for most of the oldest authors,seen by Josephus, are entirely lost,) I mean of Callis-thenes, Strabo, Arrian, and Appian. As to Callisthenes,who himself accompanied Alexander in this expedition,Eustatius, in his notes upon the third Iliad of Homer, tellsus, that "this Callisthenes wrote how the PamphylianSea did not only open a passage for Alexander, but byrising and elevating its waters did pay him homage as itsking." Strabo's account is this, Geog. XIV. page 666,** Now about Phaselis is that narrow passage by the sea­side, through which Alexander led his army. There is amountain called Climax, which adjoins to the sea of Pam-phylia, leaving a narrow passage on the shore; which incalm weather is bare, so as to be passable by travellers;but when the sea overflows, it is covered to a great degreeby the waves. Now the ascent by the mountains beinground about, and steep, in still weather they make use ofthe road along the coast. But Alexander fell into thewinter season, and committing himself chiefly to fortune,he marched on before the waves retired; and so it hap­pened that they were a whole day journeying over it,and were under water up to the navel." Arrian's ac­count is this, I. page 72, 73, "When Alexander removedfrom Phaselis, he sent some part of his army over themountains to Perga, which road the Thracians shewedhim. A difficult way it was, but short. However, hehimself conducted those that were with him by the sea­shore. The road is impassable at any other time thanwhen the north wind blows; but if the south wind prevail,there is no passing by the shore. Now at this time, afterstrong south winds, a north wind blew, and that not with­out the Divine providence, as both he and they that were with him supposed, and afforded him an easy and quickpassage." Appian, when he compares Caesar and Alex­ander together, (DeBell. Civil. II. page 522,) says, " Thatthey both depended on their boldness and fortune, asmuch as on their skill in war. As an instance of which,Alexander journeyed over a country without water, in theheat of summer, to the Oracle of Jupiter Ammon; andquickly passed over the bay of Pamphylia, when by Di­vine providence the sea was cut off; this Providence re­straining the sea on his account, as it had sent him rainwhen he travelled over the desert." N. B. Since, in the days of Josephus, as he here assuresus, all the more numerous original historians of Alexandergave the account he has here set down, as to the provi­dential going back of the waters of the Pamphylian Sea,when he was going with his army to destroy the Persianmonarchy, which the afore-named authors now remainingfully confirm; it is without any foundation that Josephusis here blamed, by some late writers, for quoting thoseancient authors upon the present occasion. Nor can thereflections of Plutarch, or any other author later thanJosephus, be in the least here alledged to contradict him.Josephus went by all the evidence he then had, and thatevidence of the most authentic sort. So that whateverthe moderns may think of the thing itself, there is hencenot the least colour for finding fault with Josephus. Hehad rather been to blame had he omitted these quotations.However, since the pretended epistles of Alexanderomitted what all the ancient historians asserted about thismatter, and which I know no sufficient grounds to con­tradict, as Plutarch informs us, De Vit. Alexand. page674: there will be reason to question those Epistles,whether they were genuine, or at least to think they werean imperfect collection of them. VOL. I.—No. 7.