OCR Output DISSERTATION III. 511 of Libya, and this at the time when Saturn was driven outof his kingdom by the power of Jupiter: an argument for itis fetched from their name. The mountain Ida is famous inCrete; and the neighboring inhabitants are named Idaei,which, with a barbarous augment, becomes the name of Judaei[Jews.] Some say they were a people that were very nume­rous in Egypt, under the reign of Isis, and that the Egyptiansgot free from that burden by sending them into the adjoiningcountries, under their captains Hierosolymus and Judas. Thegreatest part say, they were those Ethiopians whom fear andhatred obliged to change their habitations in the reign ofking Cepheus.1 There are those which report they wereAssyrians, who, wanting lands, got together, and obtainedpart of Egypt, and soon afterwards settled themselves incities of their own, in the lands of the Hebrews, and theparts of Syria that lay nearest to them.2 Others pretendtheir origin to be more eminent, and that the Solymi, a peoplecelebrated in Homer's poems-, were the founders of this nation,and gave this their own name, Hierosolyma, to the city, whichthey built there.3 CnAP. III.] Many authors agree, that when once an infec­tious distemper was arisen in Egypt, and made men's bodiesimpure, Bocchoris their king went to the oracle of [Jupiter]Hammon, and begged he would grant him some relief againstthis evil, and that he was enjoined to purge his nation of them,and to banish this kind of men into other countries, as hate­ful to the gods:4 that when he had sought for, and gottenthem all together, they were left in a vast desert; that here­upon the rest devoted themselves to weeping and inactivity;but one of those exiles, Moses by name, advised them to look 1 One would wonder how Tacitus or any heathens could suppose the AfricanEthiopians under Cepheus, who are known to be blacks, could be the parentsof the Jews, who are known to be whites. 3 This account comes nearest the truth; and this Tacitus might have fromJosephus, only disguised by himself. 3 This Tacitus might have out of Josephus, Antiq. B. vii. ch. iii. sect. 2. » Strange doctrine to Josephus! who truly observes on this occasion, thatthe gods are angry not at bodily imperfections, but at wicked practices.Apion, I), i. sect. 28.