OCR Output LIBOUA. 175 LIBYA. tint fall, into S%o Bay T Killala Bay t Black Sodftig t Clew Bay? For the elements of uncertainty seeVexkicnii, Rhoboodii, and Ibersia. [R. G. L.l LIIIOliA. [Aebura.] LIBKIA or LIRIA, a river of Gallia Narbonensis,which Pliny (iii. 4) mentions after the Arauris(Ilrrault), and his description proceeds from west toeast It is said (Hardnin's Pliny) that all the MSS.hare the reading w Libria." Hardnin takes the Li-bria to be the Lex, but this is the Ledus. [Ledus.]It has been conjectured that the Libria is the Uvron,tfaoagh this river is west of the Arauris. [G. L.] LIBUI. [Libici.] LIBUM (Ai*o»), a town in Bithynia, distant ac­cording to the ltin. Anton. 23, and according to theltin. Hier. 20 miles N. of Xicaena. (Liban. Vit. suae. p-2*.) [L.a] LIBUXCAE. [Gallafcia, p. 934, b.]LIBl'KXI (AiSvpyat, Seyl. p. 7; Strab. vi. p. 269,rii. p. 317; Appian, III. 12; Steph. B.; Schol. adXkaad. 607: Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 12; Plin. iii.25; Flor. ii. 5), a people who occupied the N. partof Illyricum, or the district called Libuknia(AiA^rix x^P*** Scyl. p. 7: AtSovpvia, Ptol. ii. 16.§ 8, viii. 7. § 7; Plin. iii. 6,23,26; Pent. Tab.; Orelli,Inter, n. 664). The Libumians were an ancientpeople, who, together with the Siculians, had occu­pied the opposite coast of Picenum; they had a citythere, Truentum, which had continued in existence•mid all the changes of the population (Plin. iii. 18).Kiehnhr (//tit of Rome, vol. i. p. 50, trans.) hasconjectured that they were a Pelasgian race. How­ever this may be, it is certain that at the time whentbe historical accounts of theiie coasts begin theywere very extensively diffused. Corcyra, before theGreeks took possession of it, was peopled by them.(Smb. vi. p. 269.) So was Issa and the neighbour­ly tdands. (Schol. ad Apollon. iv. 564.) They were also considerably extended to the N.,f» Noricum, it is evident, had been previously in­habited by Liburnfaui tribes; for the Vindeliciansvert Libumians (Serv. ad Virg. Aen. i. 243), andS:r»r>. (iv. p. 206) makes a distinction betweenthem and the Breuni and Genauni, whom he callslilyrians. The words of Virgil (/. c), too, seemdistinctly to term the Veneti Libumians, for the"■innermost realm of the Libumians" must havebeen the goal at which Antenor is said to havearrived. Driven out from the countries between Pannoniaand the Veneti by the Gallic invasion, they wereexpressed within the district from the Titius tothe Arsis, which assumed the title of Libumia. Av Id and piratical race (Liv. x. 2), they used pri-riteers. (" Unnbi," u naves Libumicae") with oneW7 Urge lateen sail, which, adopted by the Romansin tlwir straggle with Carthage (Kutrop. ii. 22) andin the Second Macedonian War (Liv. xlii. 48), sup-pUnted gradually the high-bulwarked galleys whichlad iinmerly been in use, (Caes. B. C. iii. 5; Hor.fyd. i. 1.) Liburnia was afterwards incorporatedvtth the province of D.ilmatia, ami Iadera, its capital,vuniade a Koman colony. In A. D. 634 HeracliusMvhed the Chorvates or Chrobati, who lived on theN.iide of the Carpathians, in what is now S. Polandfv OaUicvt. to occupy the province as vassals of theIVdr* (Const. Porph. de Adm. Imp. c. 31). Thisraowrtim with the Byzantine Court, and their oc-cuiatit.n of countries which had embraced Chris-l«nitj in the Apostolic age (Titus was in Dalmatian the time of St. Paul, //. Kp. Tim. iv. 10), na- turally led to the conversion of these Slavonianstrangers as early as the 7th century. (Coinp.Schafarik, Slav. Alt. vol. ii. pp. 277—309; Neige-baur, Die Sud-Slaven, pp. 224—244.) Strabo (vi.p. 315) extends the coast-line of Liburnia as far as1500 stadia: their chief cities were Iadf.ua and the"conventus" or congress of Scardona, at whichthe inhabitants of fourteen towns assembled (Plin.iii. 25). Besides these, Pliny (I. c.) enumerates thefollowing: — Alvona, Flanona, Tarsatica, Seniu, Lop-sica, Ortopula, Vegium, Argyruntuin. Cnrinium,Aenona, and Civitas Pasini. [E. B. J.] LIBU'RNICAE 1'NSULAE. [Illyricum.] LIBURNUM or L1BURNI PORTUS, a seaporton the coast of Etruria, a little to the S. of the 1'or-tus Pisanus, near the mouth of the Arnus, now calledLivorno. The ancient authorities for the existenceof a port on the site of this now celebrated seaportare discussed under Portus Pisanus. [E. H. B.] LIBUUNUS MONS, a mountain in Apulia, men-tioned only by Polybius, iu his description of Han­nibal's march into that country, B. c. 217 (Pol.iii. 100), from which it appears to have been thename of a part of the Apennines on the frontiers ofSamnium and Apulia, not far from Luceria; but itcannot be more precisely identified. [E. H. B.] LI'BYA (ri AiSvn), was the general appellationgiven by the more ancient cosmographers and his­torians to that portion of the old continent which laybetween Aegypt, Aethiopia, and the shores of theAtlantic, and which was bounded to the N. by theMediterranean sea, and to the S. by the river Ocea-nus. With the increase of geographical knowledge,the latter mythical boundary gave place to the equa­torial line: but the actual form and dimensions ofAfrica were not ascertained until the close of the15th century ad.; when, in the year 1497, the Por­tuguese doubled the Cope of Good Hope, and verifiedthe assertion of Herodotus (iv. 42), that Libya, ex­cept at the isthmus of Suez, was surrounded by water. From the Libya of the ancients we must substractsuch portions as have already been described, orwill hereafter be mentioned, in the articles entitledAegyptus, AETinoriA. Africa, Atlas, Barca,Carthage, Cyrene, Marmarica, Mauritania,the Oases, Syrtes, &c Including these districts,indeed, the boundaries of Libya are the same withthose of modem Africa as far as the equator. Tbelimits, however, of Libya Interior, as opposed tothe Aegyptian, Aethiopian, Phoenician, Grecian,and Roman kingdoms and commonwealths, weremuch narrower and less distinct. The Nile andthe Atlantic Ocean bounded it respectively onthe cast and west ; but to the north and south itsfrontiers were less accurately traced. Some geogra­phers, as Ptolemy, conceived that the south ofLibya joined the east of Asia, and that the In­dian Ocean was a vast salt lake: others, likeAgatharchides, and the Alexandrian writers gene­rally, maintained that it stretched to the equator,and they gave to the unknown regions southward ofthat line the general title of Agisymba. We shallbe assisted in forming a just conception of LibyaInterior by tracing the progress of ancient discoveryin those regions. Progress of Discovery. — The Libya of Homer(Od. iv. 87, xiv. 295) and Hesiod (Tbeog. 739;eomp. Strab. i. p. 29) comprised all that portion ofthe African continent which lay west of Luwer andMiddle Aegypt They knew it by report only, hadno conception of its form or extent, and gave its in-