OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL A mixed body Jn the reien of the emperor Caracalla, an innumerable swarm of osSuevi al- ° 1 fume the name Suevi appeared on the banks of the Mein, and in the neighbour^ of Alemanni, hood of the Roman provinces, in quest either of food, of plunder,or of glory Ss. The hasty army of volunteers gradually coalescedinto a great and permanent nation; and, as it was composed fromso many different tribes, assumed the name of Alemanni, or All-men; to denote at once their various lineage, and their commonbravery S6. The latter was soon felt by the Romans in many ahostile inroad. The Alemanni fought chiefly on horseback; but theircavalry was rendered still more formidable by a mixture of lightinfantry, selected from the bravest and most active of the youth,whom frequent exercise had enured to accompany the horsemen inthe longest march, the most furious charge, or the most precipitateretreat 8\ invade Gaul This warlike people of Germans had been astonished by the im- and Italy, y mense preparations of Alexander Severus, they were dismayed by thearms of his successor, a barbarian equal in valour and fierceness tothemselves. But still hovering on the frontiers of the empire, theyincreased the general disorder that ensued after the death of Decius.They inflicted severe wounds on the rich provinces of Gaul: theywere the first who removed the veil that covered the feeble majestyof Italy. A numerous body of the Alemanni penetrated across theDanube, and through the Rhsetian Alps, into the plains of Lom-bardy, advanced as far as Ravenna, and displayed the victoriousbanners of barbarians, almost in fight of Rome 88. The insult andthe danger rekindled in the senate some sparks of their ancientvirtue. Both the emperors were engaged in far distant wars, Vale­rian in the east, and Gallienus on the Rhine. All the hopes andare repulsed resources of the Romans, were in themselves. In this emergency. from Rome 0 '' by the senate the senators resumed the defence of the republic, drew out the and people Prætorian guards, who had been left to garrison the capital, and filled