OCR Output 428 NIGEIR. KIE. K1E (Ni7i, Isidor. Partk. tf». ed. Miiller), a smallplace in Ariana, probably the present Nek. in Ko-huUin. [V.] NIGEIR or NIGIK (Nr?€ip, Ptol. iv. 6. § 14;Ncyip. Agathem. ii. 10; Niger, f/e». Nigris, I'lin.v. 4, 8, viii. .12), a groat river of Interior Libya,Wowing from W. to E. It has long been a mootpoint among geographers whether tlie Nigeir ofihe ancients should be identified with the rivernow known us the Djolifju or Uunrra, which, aftertaking its eour.se through the vast plains or low­lands »f Central Africa, turns southwards towardsthe fiiyhl'of Jitnin, where it enters the sea. Forinstance, GosseHn (Geographie des Anciens, vol. i.pp. 125 —135) came to the conclusion that the an­cients possessed no knowledge of XW. Africa to theS. of the river Nun, Walckenaer (Reclierches Geo-tjrttjfhifjws sur r/nterienr d< VAfriipte Septen-trutnale, Pails. 1821) also, who has carefully dis­cussed this point, sums, up the result of his inquiriesby asserting that none of Ptolemy's rivers can bethe same as the hjolibd or any other stream of the ^Bitetiu-l-Sihldn, as that region was quite unknown |to antiquity, and was, in reality, discovered by theArabs. Following in the same track, Mr. Cooley{Claudius Ptolemy awl the Nik, London, 1854)regards the Nigeir as a hypothetical river, repre­senting collectively the waters of the Riledu-l-Jt rui.On the other hand, Colonel Leake (Jown. Geog.Soc. vol. ii. pp. 1—28), whose views are adopted inthe pre-cnt article,considers that Ptolemy's informa­tion on the J>julil»'t or Quarra, although extremelyimperfect, was real. There seems, indeed, to bereason for believing that its discovery may be placedat a much earlier period, and that its banks werereached by the young Nasamoncs. [Nasamonks.]Ptolemy's statements (/. c.) are annexed, from whichit will be seen that the arguments in favour of theidentity of his Nigeir with the Quorra are verystrong. lie believed that the earth was spherical;he divided the great circle into 360°; of these de­grees he placed the same number in the breadth ofN. Africa, that modern observations confirm; in thelength of the same country lie erred only one-tenthin excess. While in the interior, proceeding from apoint of the W. coast, where his positions approxi­mate to modern geography, he placed a gn at river,fl'ming from W. to E., exactly in the latitude wherethe Quorra Hows in that direction.* In considering the exact meaning of this passage, * In the interior of Lihya, lays Ptolemy,greatest riven are the Geir aud the Nipvir- K. luiitf. The (i. ir unites Mount Usargalawiiti the Ciiam nine I'har.mx. Ariver diverge* from it at And makes (In- Like Chtlonidei, ofwhich the middle is hi - This river is said to be lost under­ground, and to reappear, forminganother river, of which the W. endUat« The I". part of the rivrr forms thehike Nuba, of which the position is Tin* Nigeir joins the mountains Man.dru» and Thai i, ami forms the hikeNik rites, ot which tlx* position is - Tliis river has two northerly diver-gents to the mountains Saga|>olaand Usargala; to the K, one diver­gent to tin* lake Libye, the posi­tion of which lake i* And to tht- S. on.- divergent to therivi r Darai, at two positions -ami ------- In the Latin -and theN. 42° 0' 16° 0' 4'J° o/ 20= 0' <y irp v S0° c 15° c 18° 0' 350 0' 10° 30' 2C° 0' IT- 0' 24- n' 1T° 0- 21 o 0' i;° c 21° w Vi° 30' it should be remembered that the word topritranslated "divergent," simply indicates the fwnl <junction of two streams, without any referamthe course of their waters. At pre>ent, our «pquaintancc with the Quorra is too limited to himt ity any of its divergents; and even were tbm irtby which to institute a comr-arison, the iinperipc'jaof Ptolemy's information will probably Wave ttaparticulars in obscurity. After having su:ri 'hthe Geir and Nigeir are the two prinrijal nwithe interior, he describes the one. as V"kmr i-wii(Itifrvyt'vtDv) the Garamantic 1'ha rani with MUsargala; and the latter, as uniting in the.csirenMt. Mandrus with Mt. Thala. It is plain that 1considers them to be rivers beginning and codingthe interior, without any connection with the *If two opposite branches of a river. ri;ir.; in Hvery distant mountains, flow to a common rem*wthe whole may be described as joining tl* timountains. Of the general direction of the rimof the Nigeir there can be no doubt, as tlx latittJand longitudes of the towns on its banks28) prove a general bearing of E. and W.: aua faits not being named among the rivers uf lU'coast T), it must have been suppled to Qfrom W. to E. The lake Libye, to which tbftiian E. divergent, though its position falls 300 Pmiles to the NW. of Lake Tschad, may be presoato represent this, the principal lake of the Urt*flit was natural that Ptolemy, like many <d 1moderns, should have been misinformed as t«position, and communication of the riverlake. It is now, indeed, known that the river dnot communicate with Lake Tschad, and tha: «not a river of the interior in Ptolemy's sense; iits sources are in a very different latitude froao Iwhich he has given; and its course varies <siderably from the enormous extern of direttaathe E.. which results from his p^ition of the Iion its hanks. But recent invest ieations Lavc»ithat the difference of longitude between his mnlthe river and the W. coast is the same as that $by modern observations, — that ThamoSTVatj(BaixovBdnaya, § 28), one of his towns on the Nijjcoincides with Timbuktu, as laid down by XL J«from fail lie, — that the length of the cours* Jriver is nearly equal to that of the Quern, as athe mountain of Kong, with the addition dSfiadda or Shary afFunda, — while Ml Thai* »near that in which it may be supposed tftat;Shadda lias its origin. In the iniperfect *Hour information ujon the countries berwet^iand Darfur, it would be hazardous to ideainftlakes Cheh uides and Nuba, In comparing I'T- 'ddescription of the central country between tLrand Nigeir, there are reasons for concluding iljhad acquired an obscure knowledge of it, **ttQthat which had reached Europe before theof Denham, Clapperton, and Lander. The \great river, the Geir or GiR {T*tp. § ^1same as the river called ML<.<- f id by P.rv*Om Tei/matn, in Arabic, by Bnrckhardt; *tiJindigenous name Djyr recalls tltat of Ptt^cn.jwhich takes a general course from Sfc* taliurckhardt adds, that this country produce »which agrees with what is stated tr C h{Idyll, in Ndum, 19), who, as an African. «cqhe an authority, though, like an Afrir*n. hafounds all the rivers of his countrv wiihbut, in another passage (/. Consul. StihcJL ihe represents the Gir as a separate river, rx\