OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLIII. tioned near the Po, under the conduct of Fulcaris, abold Herulian, who rashly conceived, that personalbravery was the sole duty and merit of a commander.As he marched without order or precaution along thevEmilian way, an ambuscade of Franks suddenly arosefrom the amphitheatre of Parma: his troops were sur­prised and routed; but their leader refused to fly, de­claring to the last moment that death was less terriblethan the angry countenance of Narses. The death ofFulcaris, and the retreat of the surviving chiefs, decidedthe fluctuating and rebellious temper of the Goths; theyflew to the standard of their deliverers, and admittedthem into the cities which still resisted the arms of theRoman general. The conqueror of Italy opened a freepassage to the irresistible torrent of barbarians. Theypassed under the walls of Cesena, and answered by threatsand reproaches the advice of Aligern, that the Gothictreasures could no longer repay the labour of an inva­sion. Two thousand Franks were destroyed by the skilland valour of Narses himself, who sallied from Riminiat the head of three hundred horse, to chastise the li­centious rapine of their march. On the confines ofSamnium, the two brothers divided their forces. Withthe right wing, Buccelin assumed the spoil of Campania,Lucania, and Bruttium : with the left, Lothaire acceptedthe plunder of Apulia and Calabria. They followed thecoast of the Mediterranean and the Hadriatic, as far asRhegium and Otranto, and the extreme lands of Italywere the term of their destructive progress. The Franks,who were Christians and Catholics, contented them­selves with simple pillage and occasional murder. Butthe churches, which their piety had spared, were strippedby the sacrilegious hands of the Alemanni, who sacri­ficed horses' heads to their native deities of the woodsand rivers :c they melted or profaned the consecratedvessels, and the ruins of shrines and altars were stained * Agathias notice! their superstition in a philosophic tone (lib. 1. p. 18.) At Zag,