OCR Output ->4 THE DECLINE AND FALL primitive lustre of St. Sophia, enumerates the colours, the shades, and the spotsof ten or twelve marbles, jaspers, and porphyries, which nature had profusely di­versified, and which were blended and contrasted as it were by a skilful painter.The triumph of Christ was adorned with the last spoils of Paganism; but thegreater part of these costly stones was extracted from the quarries of Asia Minor,the isles and continent of Greece, Egypt, Africa and Gaul. Eight columns ofporphyry, which Aurelian had placed in the temple of the sun, were offered bythe piety of a Roman matron; eight others of green marble were presented bythe ambitious zeal of the magistrates of Ephesus: both are admirable by theirsize and beauty; but every order of architecture disclaims their fantastic capitals.A variety of ornaments and figures was curiously expressed in mosaic; and theimages of Christ, of the Virgin, of saints, and of angels, which have been defacedby Turkish fanaticism, were dangerously exposed to the superstition of the Greeks.According to the sanctity of each object the precious metals were distributed inthin leaves or in solid masses. The balustrade of the choir, the capitals of thepillars, the ornaments of the doors and galleries, were of gilt bronze; the spec­tator was dazzled by the glittering aspect of the cupola; the sanctuary containedforty thousand pound weight of silver; and the holy vases and vestments of thealtar were of the purest gold, enriched with inestimable gems. Before the struc­ture of the church had risen two cubits above the ground, 45,2001. were alreadyconsumed; and the whole expense amounted to 320,000/.; each reader, accordingto the measure of his belief, may estimate their value either in gold or silver; butthe sum of 1,000,000/. sterling is the result of the lowest computation. A magni­ficent temple is a laudable monument of national taste and religion, and the en­thusiast who entered the dome of St. Sophia, might be tempted to suppose that itwas the residence, or even the workmanship of the Deity. Yet how dull is theartifice, how insignificant is the labour, if it be compared with the formation ofthe vilest insect that crawls upon the surface of the temple! So minute a description of an edifice which time has respected, may attest thetruth, and excuse the relation of the innumerable works, both in the capital andprovinces, which Justinian constructed on a smaller scale and less durable founda­tions. (1) In Constantinople alone, and the adjacent suburbs, he dedicated twenty-five churches to the honour of Christ, the Virgin, and the saints; most of thesechurches were decorated with marble and gold; and their various situation wasskilfully chosen in a populous square, or a pleasant grove; on the margin of thesea-shore, or on some lofty eminence which overlooked the continents of Europeand Asia. The church of the holy apostles at Constantinople, and that of St. Johnat Ephesus, appear to have been framed on the same model: their domes aspiredto imitate the cupolas of St. Sophia; but the altar was more judiciously placed un­der the centre of the dome, at the junction of four stately porticos, which more ac­curately expressed the figure of the Greek cross. The virgin of Jerusalem mightexult in the temple erected by her imperial votary on a most ungrateful spot, whichafforded neither ground nor materials to the architect. A level was formed, bylaising part of a deep valley to the height of a mountain. The stones of a neigh­bouring quarry were hewn into regular forms; each block was fixed on a peculiarcarriage, drawn by forty of the strongest oxen, and the roads were widened for thepassage of such enormous weights. Lebanon furnished her loftiest cedars for thetimbers of the church; and the seasonable discovery of a vein of red marble, sup­plied its beautiful columns, two of which, the supporters of the exterior portico,were esteemed the largest in the world. The pious munificence of the emperorwas diffused over the holy land: and if reason should condemn the monasteries ofboth sexes which were built or restored by Justinian, yet charity must applaud thewells which he sunk, and the hospitals which he founded, for the relief of the wea­ry pilgrims. The schismatical temper of Egypt was ill entitled to the royal boun­ty; but in Syria and Africa some remedies were applied to the disasters of warsand earthquakes, and both Carthage and Antiocn, emerging from their ruins, Phrygian—of two sorw, both of a rosy hue; the one with a white shade, the other purple, with silver flowers.3. The Porphyry of Egypt-" with small stars. 4. The green marble of Lac onto. 5. The Carian—from Mountlassii, with oblique veins, white and red. 6. The Lydian—pale, with a red flower. 7. The African or Mauri-tamos— of a gold or saffron hue. 8. The Celtic—black, with white veins. 9. The Bosphoric—white, withblack edges. Besides the Proeannesian, which formed the pavement; the Thessalian, Motossian, &c, whichare less distinctly painted. (1) The six books of the edifices of Procopins, are thus distributed—The first is confined to Constantino­ple; the second includes Mesopotamia and Svria; the third, Armenia and the Euxinc; the fourth, Eurcpejthe fifth, Asia Minor and Palestine; the sixth, Egypt and Africa. Italy is forgot by the emperor or the histo­rian, who published this work of adulation before the date (A.D. 555) of its final conquest.