OCR Output OP THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 289 devoured; and the desert was strewed with the arms chap.and baggage of the Roman soldiers, whose tattered XIX,garments and meagre countenances displayed theirpast sufferings, and actual misery. A small convoyof provisions advanced to meet the army as far as thecastle of Ur; and the supply was the more grateful,since it declared the fidelity of Sebastian and Proco-pius. At Thilsaphata *, the emperor most graciouslyreceived the general's of Mesopotamia; and the re­mains of a once flourishing army at length reposedthemselves under the walls of Nisibis. The mes­sengers of Jovian had already proclaimed, in thelanguage of flattery, his election, his treaty, and hisreturn; and the new prince had taken the mosteffectual measures to secure the allegiance of thearmies and provinces of Europe; by placing the mili­tary command in the hands of those officers, who,from motives of interest, or inclination, would firmlysupport the cause of their benefactor t. The friends of Julian had confidently announced Universalthe success of his expedition. They entertained a^""^fond persuasion, that the temples of the gods would treatvofbe enriched with the spoils of the East; that Persiawould be reduced to the humble state of a tributaryprovince, governed by the laws and magistrates ofRome; that the Barbarians would adopt the dress,and manners, and language, of their conquerors;and that the youth of Ecbatana and Susa wouldstudy the art of rhetoric under Grecian masters t.The progress of the arms of Julian interrupted hiscommunication with the empire; and, from the mo- • M. d'Anville (see his Maps, and l'Euphrate et le Tigre, p. 92, 93.) tracestheir march, and assigns the true position of Hatra, Ur, and Thilsaphata. whichAmmianus has mentioned. He does not cornplain of the Samiel, the deadly hotwind, which Thevenot (Voyages, part ii. l . i. p. 192.) so much dreaded. + The retreat of Jovian is described by Ammianus (xxv. 9.), Libanius (Orat.Parent. c. 143. p. 3C5.), and Zosimus (1. iii. p. 194.). f Libanius, Orat. Parent. c. 145. p. 366. Such were the natural hopes andwishes of a rhetorician. VOL. II. U