OCR Output 436 [book XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. sented those that attended about the kingwith gilts, to the value of a great number oftalents; that he might escape the danger hewas in from them: for to these it was thatHyrcanus's brethren had written to destroyhim. Now Ptolemy admired at the youngman's magnanimity: and commanded him toask what gift he pleased. But he desirednothing else to be done for him by the king,than to write to his father and brethrenabout him. So when the king had paid himvery great respect, and had given him verylarge gifts, and had written to his father andhis brethren, and all his commanders, andofficers about him, he sent him away. Butwhen his brethren heard that Hyrcanus hadreceived such favours from the king, and wasreturning home with great honour, they wentout to meet him, and to destroy him; and thatwith the privity of their father. For he wasangry at him for the large sum of money thathe bestowed for presents: and so had no con­cern for his preservation. However, Josephconcealed the anger he had at his son, outof fear of the king. And when Hyrcanus'sbrethren came to fight him, he slew manyothers of those that were with them; as alsotwo of his brethren themselves: but the restof them escaped to Jerusalem, to their father.But when Hyrcanus came to the city, wherenobody would receive him, he was afraid forhimself; and retired beyond the river Jordan,and there abode: obliging the Barbarians topay their taxes. At this time Seleucus, who was calledSoter, reigned over Asia: being the son ofAntiochus the Great. And now Hyrcanus'sfather Joseph died. He was a good man,and of great magnanimity; and brought theJews out of a state of poverty and meanness,to one that was more splendid. He retainedthe farm of the taxes of Syria, and Phoenicia,and Samaria *twenty-two years. His uncle,Onias, also died about this time, and leftthe high-priesthood to his son Simon. Andwhen he was dead, Onias his son succeededhim in that dignity. To fhim it was thatAreus, king of the Lacedaemonians, sent anambassage, with an epistle: the copy where­of here follows:— AREUS, KING OF THE LACEDEMONIANS, TO ONIAS,SENDETH GREETING. "We have met with a certain writing,whereby we have discovered, that both theJews and the Lacedaemonians are of onestock; and are derived from the Jkindred ofAbraham. It is but just, therefore, that you,who are our brethren, should send to usabout any of your concerns as you please.We will also do the same: and esteem yourconcerns as our own: and will look uponour concerns as in common with yours. De-moteles, who brings this letter, will bringyour answer back to us. This letter is foursquare: and the seal is an eagle, with adragon in his claws." * Thirty-six years in one manuscript; which is per­haps the true number. See Prideaux at an. 226. t Take here Dean Prideaux's account of this letter, atthe year 183, which I suppose to be the truth of this case."It is," says he, "most likely Josephus mistook the Oniasto whom this letter was directed, and ascribed that toOnias III. which was done only in the time of Onias I.For while Onias, the first of that name, the son of Jad-dua, was high-priest of the Jews, there was one Areusking of Lacedaemon; (which it no way appears there wasin the days of Onias the third.) And from him mostlikely it was that this letter was written. AccordinglyJonathan, in his letter to the Lacedaemonians, (1 Mace,xii. 10. Antiq. XIII. 5.) wherein he makes mentionof this letter of Areus's, says, There was a long timepassed since it had been sent to them. Which couldnot hare been said by Jonathan in respect of the timein which Onias III. was high-priest: since from thedeath of that Onias, to the time that Jonathan wasmade prince of the Jews, there had passed no morethan twelve years." J Whence it comes that these Lacedaemonians declarethemselves here to be of kin to the Jews, as derived both from the same ancestor Abraham, I cannot tell.Unless, as Grotius supposes, they were derived from theDores, that came of the Pelasgi. These are by Hero­dotus, in effect, called Barbarians: and perhaps werederived from the Syrians and Arabians, the posterity ofAbraham by Keturah, see Antiq. XIV. 10; Of the War,I. 26. and Grotius on 1 Mace. xii. 7. We may fartherobserve from the recognitions of Clement I. 33. thatEliezer of Damascus, the servant of Abraham, Gen. xv. 2.and xxiv. was of old by some taken for his son. So thatif the Lacedaemonians were sprung from him, they mightthink themselves to be of the posterity of Abraham; aswell as the Jews, who were sprung from Isaac. And per­haps this Eliezer of Damascus is that very Damascus,whom Trogus Pompeius, as abridged by Justin, makes thefounder of the Jewish nation itself. Though he afterwardblunders, and makes Azelus, Adores, Abraham, and Is­rael, kings of Judea; and successors to this Damascus:XXXVI. 2. It may not be improper to observe far­ther, that Moses Chorenensis, in his history of the Ar­menians, informs us, that the nation of the Parthian?also was derived from Abraham, by Keturah, and herchildren.