OCR Output *72 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. CHAP. XLVI1I. Pestilence. Famine. A Compromise. JtjUT now famine began to distress both parties, morethan all the calamities consequent on the siege of the war.Add to this, that a pestilential distemper raged among theGauls, who were encamped in a valley between two bitls,rendered excessively hot by the flames of the houses, andsmoke issuing from them, at the same time, that the leastblast of wind made not only the dust, but the ashes in足supportable. The Gauls, who had been accustomed toa moist and cold climate, could not support under theseinconvenience?, but oppressed with the excessive best,and a lowness of spirits, they died like rotten sheep; in足somuch, that they could no longer be troubled with bury足ing them one by one, but piled them up in heaps pro足miscuously, and set fire to them at once; rendering theplace famous, by the name of the Gaul's burying-place. After this, a suspension of arms was agreed on by bothparties, during which, by permission of the generals,the troops had frequent intercourse together; and whilstthe Gauls insisted principally on the short allowance towhich the besieged were reduced, and advised them tosurrender on that account; to remove such thoughts, iis said, they threw loaves from the capiiol, at dill ere uplaces, into the posts of the enemy. But, by this time, the famine had risen to such anheight, that it could neither be concealed, uor endureany longer. Therefore, while the dictator was levyintroops in person at Ardea, having dispatched L. Valerius, general of the horse, to march the troops from-Veii, and was making every preparation to act on thoffensive with the enemy ; the army in thecapitol, quitexhausted with hard duty and watching, though theyhad bravely surmounted all other human obstacles, against the cravings of nature their courage could furnishthem with no antidote, and being every moment on thawatch for assistance from the dictator, at length theifhopes failed them with the provisions, whilst their en-icbled bodies sunk under the pressure of their arms almounted guard, insisted absolutely to surrendei '