OCR Output 262 OOOT-ftl. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. ordered him to answer quickly, that hemight declare what he had chosen to God;the king reasoned with himself that in casehe should ask for famine, he would appearto do it for others, and without danger tohimself; since he had a great deal of cornhoarded up; that in case he should chooseto be overcome by his enemies for threemonths, he would appear to have chosen war,because he had valiant men and strong holds;and that therefore he feared nothing there­from; so he chose that affliction which iscommon to kings, and to their subjects; andin which the fear was equal on all sides; andsaid that it was much better to fall into thehands of God, than into those of his enemies.When the prophet had heard this, he de­clared it to God; who thereupon sent a pes­tilence and a mortality upon the Hebrews.Now the miserable disease was one indeed;but it carried them off by ten thousand causesand occasions, which those that were afflicted,could not understand; for one died upon theneck of another; and the terrible maladyseized them before they were aware, andbrought them to their end suddenly. Somegave up the ghost immediately, with verygreat pains and bitter grief; and some wereworn away by their distempers, and hadnothing remaining to be buried; but as soonas ever they fell, were entirely macerated:some were choked, and greatly lamentedtheir case, as being also stricken with asudden darkness; and some there were who,as they were burying a relation, fell downdead,* without finishing the rites of thefuneral. Now there perished of this disease,which began with the morning, and lastedtill the hour of dinner, seventy thousand.fNay, the angel stretched out his hand overJerusalem, as sending this terrible judgmentupon it. But David had put on sackcloth,and lay upon the ground intreating God, andbegging that the distemper might now cease;and that he would be satisfied with those that * Whence Josephus took these distinct and melancholyaccounts of the particular symptoms, and miserablemethods of dying in this terrible pestilence, we cannotnow tell; our other copies affording us no such account. t 2 Sam. xxiv. 15. t Six hundred shekels of gold, 1 Chron. xxi. 26. 11 The mountain of the house, or mount Moriah, byMr. Maundrell's measures, page 105, was about five hun­dred and seventy-one cubits wide, and about nine hun- had already perished. And when the kinglooked up into the air, and saw the angelcarried along thereby unto Jerusalem, withhis sword drawn, he said to God, that hemight justly be punished, who was theirshepherd; but that the sheep ought to bepreserved, as not having sinned at all; andhe implored God that he would send hiswrath upon him, and upon all his family; butspare the people. When God heard his supplication, hecaused the pestilence to cease; and sentGad the prophet to him, and commandedhim to go up immediately to the threshingfloor of Araunah the Jebusite; and build analtar there to God, and offer sacrifices. WhenDavid heard that, he did not neglect his duty,but made haste to the place appointed him.Now Araunah was threshing wheat; andwhen he saw the king, and all his servantscoming to him, he ran to him and worshippedhim. He was by his lineage a Jebusite, buta particular friend of David's, and for thatcause it was, that when he overthrew the city,he did him no harm; as we have already in­formed the reader. Now Araunah inquired,"Wherefore is my lord come to his servant?"He answered, to buy of him the threshingfloor; that he might therein build an altar toGod, and offer a sacrifice. Araunah replied,that he freely gave him both the threshingfloor, and the ploughs, and the oxen for aburnt-offering; and he besought God gra­ciously to accept his sacrifice. The kingsaid, that he took his generosity and magna­nimity kindly, and accepted his good will;but he desired him to take the price of themall; for that it was not just to offer a sacrificethat cost nothing. And When Araunah saidhe might do as he pleased, he bought thethreshing floorJ for ||nfty shekels. And whenhe had built an altar, he performed divineservice, and brought a burnt-offering, andoffered peace-offerings. With these God waspacified, and became gracious to them again. dred and eighty cubits long=thirty-five acres, which if itall belonged to Araunah, might well be worth those sixhundred shekels of gold or 1251. which we have 1 Chron.xxi. 25. and a small part of it with the oxen and instru­ments, would be much more worth than those fifty shekelsof silver=5l. 18s. which we have 2 Sam. xxiv. 24. andhere. So that the larger number in the Chronicles is, inall probability, the true number-