OCR Output AN. 1178.] 173 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Accordingly she intreated God to send theangel again, that he might be seen by herhusband. So the angel came again, by thefavour of God, while they were in the sub­urbs; and appeared to her, when she wasalone, without her husband. She desired theangel to stay so long till she might bring herhusband; and that request being granted,she went to call Manoah. When he saw theangel, he was not yet free from suspicion; anddesired him to inform him of all he had toldhis wife. But when he said, it was sufficientthat she alone knew what he had said; hethen requested of him to tell him, who he was;that when the child was born, they might re­turn him thanks, and give him a present. Hereplied, that he did not want any present; forhe did not bring them the good news of thebirth of a son out of the want of any thing.And when Manoah intreated him to stay, andpartake of his hospitality, he did not give hisconsent. However he was persuaded, at theearnest request of Manoah, to stay so long, aswhile he brought him one mark of his hospi­tality. So he slew a kid of the goats, andbade his wife boil it. When all was readythe angel enjoined him to set the loaves andthe flesh, but without the vessels, upon therock. Which, when . they had done, hetouched the flesh with a rod which he had inhis hand; which, upon the breaking out of aflame, was consumed, together with theloaves. And the angel ascended in theirsight, up to heaven by means of the smoke,as by a vehicle. Now Manoah was afraidthat some danger would come to them, fromthis sight of God; but his wife exhorted himto be of good courage; for that God appearedto them for their benefit.* So the woman became pregnant, and wascareful to observe the injunctions that were given her. And they called the child, whenit was born, Sampson; which name signifiesone that is strong. So the child grew apace,and it appeared evidently that he would beaf prophet; both by the moderation of hisdiet, and the permission of his hair to grow. Now when he once came with his parentsto Timnath, a city of the Philistines, whenthere was a great festival, he fell in love witha maid of that country, and desired of his pa­rents that they would procure him the dam­sel for his wife. But they refused so to do;because she was not of the stock of Israel.Yet because this marriage was of God, whointended to convert it to the benefit of theHebrews, he over-persuaded them to procureher to be espoused to him. And as he wascontinually coming to her parents he met alion; and, though he was naked, he receivedthe animal's onset, strangling him with hishands, and cast his body into a woody pieceof ground, on the inside of the road. Another time when he was going to thedamsel, he discovered a swarm of bees, ma­king their combs in the breast of the lion.And taking three honey-combs away, he gavethem, together with the rest of his presents, tothe damsel. Now the people of Timnath, outof a dread of the young man's strength, gavehim, during the time of the wedding-feast,(for he then feasted them all) thirty of themost stout of their youths in pretence to behis companions; but in reality to be a guardupon him, that he might not attempt to givethem any disturbance. Now as they weredrinking merrily and playing, Sampson said,as was usual at such times, " Come; I proposeyou a riddle,! and if you can expound it inthese seven days time, I will give you everyone a linen shirt and a garment,|| as a rewardof your wisdom." So they, being very ambi­ * Judg. xiii. 23. t Here by a prophet Josephus seems only to mean,one that was born by a particular providence, who livedafter the manner of a Nazarite devoted to God, and was tohave an extraordinary commission and strength from Godfor the judging and avenging his people Israel; withoutany proper prophetic revelations. J This shews how ancient the custom was, (which wefind afterwards amongst the Greeks,) of proposing ques­tions to be resolved in their compotations and feasts, thatthey might not be spent merely in eating and drinking,but that there might be something to exercise their witand ingenuity. Such riddles as were contrived to puzzleand perplex were called by the name of 7f 190s, which the scholiast upon Aristophanes defines to be a question putamong their cups. See Bochart Hieroz, lib. iv. cap. 12.It should also be observed, that they incurred a forfeitureequal to the reward, if they failed altogether in theiranswers. B. II Among the Greeks it was usual for the bride to givechanges of dress to the friends of the bridegroom at thecelebration of the marriage. Homer represents Pallas asappearing to Nausica in a dream, and commanding her todescend to the river, and wash the robes of state, pre­paratory to her nuptials. Oh, indolent, to waste thy hours away! And sleep'st thon, careless of the bridal day? Pp2