OCR Output A. D. 14.] QF TACITUS. was to issue out of the treasury. The tribunes wereallowed to preside in the Circus, dressed in trium­phal robes, but the pomp of splendid chariots was ex­pressly denied. The annual celebration of thosegames was afterwards transferred, from the tribunes,to that particular prator who has jurisdiction in allcauses between strangers and the citizens of Kome. XVI. Such was the situation of affairs at Rome,when a fierce and violent mutiny broke out amongthe legions in Pannonia. For this insurrection therewas no other motive than the licentious spirit, whichis apt to show itself in the beginning of a new reign,and the hope of private advantage in the distractionsof a civil war. A summer-camp had been formedfor three legions, under the command of Julius Blse-sus. The death of Augustus, and the accession ofTiberius, being known to the army, the generalgranted a suspension of military duty, as an intervalof grief or joy. The soldiers grew wanton in idle­ness; dissensions spread amongst them; the vile andprofligate had their circular audiences; sloth andpleasure prevailed; and all were willing to exchangea life of toil and discipline, for repose and luxury.There happened to be in the camp a busy incendiary,by name Percennius, formerly a leader of theatricalfactions, and'ribw a common soldier; a man fluent inwords, and by his early habits versed in tho art ofexciting tumult and sedition. Over the weak and ig­norant, and such as felt their minds alarmed withdoubts and fears about the future condition of theservice, this pragmatical follow began to exert his in­fluence. In the 'dead of night he mixed in cabals;and never failed at the close of day, when the soberand well disposed retired to their tents, to draw to­gether the idle and most abandoned. Having gaineda number of proselytes, he stood forth the orator ofsedition, and harangued his confederates in the fol­lowing manner: XVII. " How long, my fellow soldiers, must we"obey a small and despicable set of centurions:1 how" long continue slaves to a wretched band of military"tribunes? If we mean to redress our grievances,