OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 2S7 was declared the most worthy of the imperial throne. The maliceof religious zeal, whilst it arraigns the savage fierceness of his col­league Maximian, has affected to cast suspicions on the personalcourage of the emperor DiocletianIt would not be easy to per­suade us of the cowardice of a soldier of fortune, who acquired andpreserved the esteem of the legions, as well as the favour of so manyWarlike princes. Yet even calumny is sagacious enough to discoverand to attack the most vulnerable part. The valour of Diocletianwas never found inadequate to his duty or to the occasion; but heappears not to have possessed the daring and generous spirit of ahero, who courts danger and fame, disdains artifice, and boldlychallenges the allegiance of his equals. His abilities were usefulrather than splendid; a vigorous mind, improved by the experienceand study of mankind; dexterity and application in business; ajudicious mixture of liberality and ceconomy, of mildness and ri­gour; profound dissimulation under the disguise of military frank­ness; steadiness to pursue his ends; flexibility to vary his means;and above all the great art of submitting his own passions, as wellas those of others, to the interest of his ambition, and of colouringhis ambition with the most specious pretences of justice and publicutility. Like Augustus, Diocletian may be considered as the found­er of a new empire. Like the adopted son of Cæsar, he was dis­tinguished as a statesman rather than as a warrior; nor did eitherof those princes employ force, whenever their purpose could beeffected by policy. The victory of Diocletian was distinguished by its singular mild- His clemencyness. A people accustomed to applaud the clemency of the con- 30 v,ct)ry*queror, if the usual punishments of death, exile, and confiscationwere inflicted with any degree of temper and equity, beheld, withthe most pleasing astonishment, a civil war, whose rage was confinedto the field of battle. Diocletian received into his confidence Ari-stobulus, the principal minister of the house of Carus, respected the lives,