OCR Output aN. 1780.] 45 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. in prudence. This affection of his father ex­cited the envy and the hatred of his brethren,as did also his dreams which he related tohis father and to them; which foretold hisfuture happiness; it being usual with man­kind to envy their very nearest relation suchprosperity. Now the visions which Josephsaw in his sleep were these: When they were in the middle of harvest,and Joseph was sent with his brethren togather the fruits of the earth, he saw a visionin a dream, greatly exceeding the customaryappearances that come when we are asleep;which when he got up he told his brethren,that they might judge what it portended. Hesaid, he saw the last night, that his wheatsheaf stood still, in the place where he set it;but that their sheafs ran to bow down to it,as servants bow down to their masters.* Butas soon as they perceived the vision foretoldthat he should obtain power and great wealth;and that his power should be in opposition tothem, they gave no interpretation of it toJoseph: as if the dream were not understoodby them. But they prayed, that no part ofwhat they suspected to be its meaning mightcome to pass; and their hatred against him-was augmented on that account. But God in opposition to their envy senta second vision to Joseph, which was morewonderful than the former; for it seemed tohim that the sun took with him the moon, andthe rest of the stars, and came down to theearth, and bowed down to him.f He toldthis vision to his father, and that, as sus­pecting nothing of ill will from his brethren,when they were there also; and desired himto interpret what it should signify. NowJacob was pleased with the dream; for con­sidering the prediction in his mind, andshrewdly and wisely guessing at its meaning,he rejoiced at the great things thereby sig­nified; because it declared the future hap­piness of his son: and that by the blessingof God, the time should come when he shouldbe honoured, and thought worthy of worshipby his parents and brethren; as guessing thatthe moon and sun were like his mother andfather—the former as she that gave increaseand nourishment to all things; and the latter,he that gave form and all other powers * Gen. xxxvii, 1.t Gen. xxxvii. 9. to them; and that the stars were like hisbrethren, since they were eleven in number,as were the stars that receive their powerfrom the sun and moon. And thus did Jacob make a shrewd judg­ment of this vision; but these interpretationscaused great grief to Joseph's brethren; andthey were affected to him hereupon as if hewere a stranger that was to have those goodthings which were signified by the dreams,and not as one that was a brother, with whomit was probable they should be joint par­takers; and as they had been partners in thesame parentage, so should they be of thesame happiness. They also resolved to killthe lad: and having fully ratified that in­tention, as soon as their collection of thefruits was over, they went to Shechem, whichis a country good for feeding of cattle, andfor pasturage; there they fed their flock,without acquainting their father with theirremoval. Jacob, therefore, had melancholysuspicions about them, as being ignorant ofhis sons' condition; and receiving no mes­senger from the flocks that could inform himof their true state, he sent Joseph to learnthe circumstances his brethren were in, andto bring him word how they did. CHAP. III. of Joseph's cruel treatment by his brethren, hisslavery, and subsequent greatness in egypt. NOW these brethren rejoiced as soon asthey saw their brother coming to them;not, indeed, as at the presence of a near re­lation, or even as one sent by their father;but as at the presence of an enemy, and onethat by divine providence was delivered intotheir hands; and they already resolved to killhim, and not let slip the opportunity that laybefore them. But when Reubal, the eldestbrother saw them thus disposed, and thatthey had agreed together to execute theirpurpose, he tried to restrain them:£ shewingthem the heinous enterprise they were goingabout, and the horrid nature of it; that thisaction would appear wicked in the sight ofGod, and impious before men; even thoughthey should kill one not related to them; butmore flagitious and detestable to appear to \ Gen. xxxvii. 21.