OCR Output ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book. XIV. "pointed to govern." And when Antipater had said this tothem, he himself settled the affairs of this country. 2. And seeing that Hyrcanus was of a slow and slothful tem­per, he made Phasaelus, his eldest son, governor of Jerusalem,and of the places that were about it, but committed Galilee toHerod, his next son, who was then a very young man, for hewas but * fifteen years of age: But that youth of his was noimpediment to him; but as he was a youth of great mind, hepresently met with an opportunity of signalizing his courage;for finding that there was one Hezekias, a captain of a band ofrobbers, who overran the neighbouring parts of Syria, with agreat troop of them, he seized him, and slew him, as well as agreat number of the other robbers that were with him; forwhich action he was greatly beloved by the Syrians; for whenthey were very desirous to have their country freed from thisnest of robbers, he purged it of them: So they sung songs inhis commendation, in their villages and cities, as having pro­cured them peace, and the secure enjoyment of their possessions,and on this account it was that he became known to Sextus Cae-sar, who was a relation of the great Caesar's, and was now pre­sident of Syria. Now Phasaelus, Herod's brother, was movedwith emulation at his actions, and envied the fame he had there­by gotten, and became ambilious not to be behind hand with himin deserving it: So he made the inhabitants of Jerusalem bearhim the greatest good-will, while he held the city himself, butdid neither manage its affairs improperly, nor abuse his autho­rity therein. This conduct procured from the nation to Anti-pater such respect as is due to kings, and such honours as hemight partake of if he were an absolute lord of the country.Yet did not this splendour of his, as frequently happens, in theleast diminish in him that kindness and fidelity which he owedto Hyrcanus. 3. But now the principal men among the Jews, when theysaw Antipater and his sons to grow so much in the good-willthe nation bare to them, and in the revenues which they receivedout of Judea, and out of Hyrcanus' own wealth, they becameill disposed to him: for indeed Antipater had contracted a friend­ship with the Roman emperors: and when he had prevailedwith Hyrcanus to send them money, he took it to himself, and * Those who will carefully observe the several occasional numbers and chronolo­gical characters in the life and death of this Herod, and of his childien, hereafternoted, will ste, that twenty-Jive years, and not fifteen, must for certain have beenhere Josepbus own number for the age of Herod, when he was made governor ofGalilee. See chap, xxiii. sect. 5. and chap. xxiv. sect. 7. and particularly Antiq. B.XVII. chap. viii. sect. 1. vol. III. »her« about 44 years afterwards Herod dies anold man at about 70.