OCR Output 3T8 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I. but for himself he adorned the temple of Belus, and the othertemples, after an elegant manner, out of the spoils he hadtaken in the war. He also rebuilt the old city, and addedanother to it on the outside, and so far restored Babylon, that,none who should besiege it afterwards might have it in theirpower to divert the river, so as to facilitate an entrance intoit; and this he did by building three walls about the innercity, and three about the outer. Some of these walls he builtof burnt brick and bitumen, and some of brick only. So whenhe had thus fortified the city with walls, after an excellentmanner, and had adorned the gates magnificently, he addeda new palace to that which his father had dwelt in, and thisclose by it also, and that more eminent in its height and inits great splendor; it would, perhaps, require too long a nar­ration, if any one were to describe it; however, as prodigious,large and as magnificent as it was, it was finished in fifteendays. Now in this palace he erected very high walks, sup­ported by stone pillars; and by planting what was called apensile paradise, and replenishing it with all sorts of trees, herendered the prospect of an exact resemblance of a moun­tainous country. This he did to please his queen, becauseshe had been brought up in Media, and was fond of a moun­tainous situation."1 20. This is what Berosus relates concerning the foremen-tioned king, as he relates many other things about him alsoin the third book of his Chaldean history: wherein he com­plains of the Grecian writers for supposing, without any foun­dation, that Babylon was built by Semiramis,1 queen of Assy­ria, and for her false pretence to those wonderful edificesthereto relating, as if they were her own workmanship; as,indeed, in these affairs the Chaldean history cannot but be themost credible. Moreover, we meet with a confirmation of whatBerosus says, in the archives of the Phoenicians, concerningthis king Nabuchodonosor, that he conquered all Syria andPhoenicia ; in which case Philostratus agrees with the others 1 The groat improvements that Nebuchadnezzar made in the buildings atBabylon, do no way contradict those ancient and authentic testimonies whichascribe its first building to Nimro 1, and its first rebuilding to Semiramis, asBerosus seems hero to suppose.