OCR Output 366 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOKIV. their own army. This happened accordingly. The ca­valry were blocked up, and found it.quite impracticableto return the way they had advanced: the enemy hav-ing closed, and in that part of the line, standing in veryclose array. The consul and Roman legions having lost sight ofthe battalion which was the life and soul of their army,and fearing those generous troops would be blocked upand overpowered by the enemy, outbraved every dan­ger for their relief. The Volsci making a double froat,on the one side, sustained the charge of the consul andhis legions; and on the other pressed hard upon Tem-panius and his cavalry, who having often attempted tobreak through the enemy's ranks to join the main bodyof their army, without effect, at last took possession of aneminence, where throwing themselves into a ring, theydefended themselves with such bravery as cost the Volscidear. Only the night put an end to the battle. The consul, on his part, kept the enemy sufficientlyemployed, while any light remained. Night drew offboth sides, equally uncertain-which was victorious.Their ignorance, in this respect, struck such a panic onboth, that leaving their wounded and a great part oftheir baggage behind, both concluding themselves de­feated, made the best of their way to the mountainswhich lay nearest them. The eminence, however, con­tinued to be invested till after midnight, when the be­siegers being informed, that their camp was abandoned,and not doubting. but the army had been also defeated,went off in a fright, under cover of the darkness, the bestway they could. Tempanius fearing an ambuscade, kept his post tillday-light; when he went out with a few of his followersto reconnoitre the enemy, and found upon inquiry atsome of the wounded enemy, that the Volsci had aban­doned their camp. Then with pleasure calling down allhis soldiers from the hill, he entered the Roman camp,and there found the like solitude and total desertion as inthe enemy's. Therefore, as he was entirely ignorant ofthe consul's rout, and fearing a return of the Volsci up-en the first discovery of their error, be took up as many