OCR Output 12 50 VALLUM BOMANTM VALLUM ItOMANUM. The wall was everywhere accoiri]ianied on itsn^rthsrn side by a broad and deep fo»se, which maystill bo traced, with trifling interruptions, from seato sea, even where the wall has quite disappeared.It traverses indifferently alluvial soil and rocks ofsandstone, limestone, and basalt. Thus, on Tappei'Moor, enormous blocks of whinstonc lie just as theywere lifted out of the fosse. East of Hcddon onthe Wall, the fosse is .14 feet wide at the tup, 14 atthe button), and about *J deep. In some places it is40 feet wide at the top, and in others 20 feet deep. Hodgson, in Ins History of Northumberland (iii.p. 270)> states a fact curious if true: '* A little \V.of Portf/ate, the earth taken out of the fosse liesspread abroad to the N. in lines, just as the workmenwheeled it out and left it. The tracks of theirbarrows, with a slight mound on each side, remainunaltered in form." It is scarcely credible, how­ever, that slight derations of earth, and superficialtraces in it, should, for more than a thousand years,have successfully resisted the constant operation ofthe natural agencies which are sufficient tu disinte­grate the hardest rocks. The Vallum, or earth wall, is uniformly S. ofthe stone wall. It consists of three ramparts and afosse. One rampart is close to the S. edge of theditch. Of the other two, which are considerablylarger, one is situated N., the other S. of the ditch, atthe distance of about 24 feet from it. These largerramparts are even now, in some places, 6 or 7 feethigh. They an composed of earth, in which massesof stone are often Imbedded, for the sake of which theyare sometimes quarried. The fosse of the vallumwas probably smaller than that of the murus. No outlets through the S. lines of fortificationhave been discovered; so that the gateways of thestations appear to have originally been the only meansof communication with the country. At distances averaging nearly 4 miles, stationarycamps were erected along the line. Some of these,though connected with the wall, wen evidently builtbefore it. The stations aro four-sided and nearly square, butsomewhat rounded at the corners, and coutaiu anarea averaging from ,"i to G acres, though some ofthem are considerably larger. A stone wall, about 5feet thick, encloses them, and was probably in everyinstance strengthened by a fosse and one or moreearthen ramparts. The stations m>ually stand uponground with a southern inclination. The gnat wall either falls in with the N. wall ofthe stations, or else usually comes up to the N. cheekof their B. and W. gateways. The vallum in likemanner generally approaches close to the S. wall ofthe stations, or comes up to the S. side of the K. andW. portals. At least three of the stations, however,are quite detached from both lines of fortification,being to the S. of them. These may have beenerected by Agricola, Narrow streets intersecting one another nt rightangles traverse the interior of the stations; andabundant ruins outside the walls indicate that ex­tensive suburbs were required for the accommodationof those connected with the soldiers stationed in thecamps. The stations were evidently constructed withexclusive reference to defence; and hence no tracesof tesselated pavements or other indications of luxurvand refinement have been discovered in the muralregion. According to Efarslej, there were 18stations on theline of tlie wall, besides some in its immediate vicinity; but Hodgson reduces the number to 17. UrL-nt-that in one instance Horsley mUlcok a nxrc less*,rary encampment for a station. In ascertaining the number and etna d ntstations, our principal literary authority is tat A*t'ttia Imperiit supposed to have been ctwjaWafcsathe end of the reign of the emperor Tbraowa (i*younger. The 69th section uf this (Lranast ob­tains a list of the prefects and tribunes vsAer tkDuke of Britain: the portion reUlice to oar assjs.is headed, " Item per lineam Valli,' tai cnr»the names of 23 stations, evidently arranged is taworder from E. to W. The heading. hoaew,«avfestly implies, not, as it seems sometinia to barej interpreted, that all the stations went sranSr m Ifet. line of the wall, but that they were oA«j iuta*.*,I parallel to, or at no great distance frtaa it It»j clear, therefore, that as remains of stations exist askto the N. and to the S. of the wall, as wtU a *•tually on its line, nothing but the rea-iain tfaavaiaican enable us to name the stations witfa certaca Now the first 12 stations mentioned iataeNaaahave been accurately identified by means af nae"*.tious found in the rains of the sUtiaae. Of lawwe subjoin a list, with the axciwtandaiaoeraiewa,taken chiefly from the plan prefixed to Mr. firmwork :— Segedunuin WalUemd Poos Aelii XnccaJtk, Condercuin* Be*melL Vindobala Hunnum - Ilaltm Cfejan. Cilumum- U aaWnfc Ciakrx l'rocolitia - Cut rtiaCMiye. liorcovicus HotBot, .v.- Viudolana Little Ckakn.« CaeakrUe. Aesica Great Girflan Magna (Magnae) Ctu ivriia. Amboglanna /„..,•.-■•..-;: All these are on the actual Lop of the wiu.euaftVindolana aiid Magna, which are a little l>taa of it. West of Amboglanna no evidence as* t& andiscovered to identify any of the stations; aaiaeto be feared that many antiquities wluca aafataafenabled us to do so hare been destroyed; tr a sa­ltan* that the country people, even quite raaafifc,regarded stones bearing inscriptions as • acaal>calling them "witch-stunes," the eril iiJaaen 4which was to be extirpated by pxindiuz teas •powder. Besides this, stone is scarce m last actof the country; and hence the materials of tbrealand stations have been extensively employee a da)construction of dikes and other erect*** m tstneighbourhood. It appears from the plan already referred I? lastthere were stations at the plices now called Caeis*Fort, Stamrix, Burgh, Drumbmyk, aad ■the first a little to the S., all the rest ea tat a»of the wall. Of the remaining eleven stations mentiieW. a ta*Notitia, the plan identifies Alioois with ITaesaCattle, some miles S. of the wall. Mr Brace pa»»Iiremeteuracum a little \V. it the Tillage af aVaaa*tun; Petriana, he thinks, is probably the aaat aCambe.ck ForU It is possible that something may JH bt esse■>elucidate what is still obscure is coanecaoe wili :*»»most interesting monuments of Koman Brieam; aalthe L)uke of Northumberland bad, la 1>SJ.