OCR Output 40 . DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XL. among the guards of the emperor Leo. Under the twosucceeding reigns, the fortunate peasant emerged towealth and honours; arid his escape from some dangerswhich threatened his life, was afterward ascribed to theguardian angel who watches over the fate of kings. Hislong and laudable service in the Isaurian and Persianwars, would not have preserved from oblivion the nameof Justin; yet they might warrant the military pro­motion, which hi the course of fifty years he graduallyobtained; the rank of tribune, of count, and of general,the dignity of senator, and the command of the guards,who obeyed him as their chief, at the important crisiswhen the emperor Anastasius was removed from theworld. The powerful kinsmen, whom he had raised andenriched, were excluded from the throne; and the eu­nuch Amantius, who reigned in the palace, had secretlyresolved to fix the diadem on the head of the most ob­sequious of his creatures. A liberal donative, to conci­liate the suffrage of the guards, was intrusted for thatpurpose in the hands of their commander. But theseweighty arguments were treacherously employed by Jus-Eieration tin in his own favour; and as no competitor presumed"fwYuDcieto aPPear> the Dacian peasant was invested with thea^d" m8 P^rP^e' Dy tne unanimous consent of the soldiers, whojoiy 10. 'knew him to be brave and gentle; of the clergy andApril i, or people, who believed him to be orthodox, and of theAug. l. provincials, who yielded a blind and implicit submissionto the will of the capital. The elder Justin, as he isdistinguished from another emperor of the same familyand name, ascended the Byzantine throne at the age ofsixty-eight years; and, had he been left to his own guid­ance, every moment of a nine years' reign must haveexposed to his subjects the impropriety of their choice.His ignorance was similar to that of Theodoric; and, itis remarkable, that in an age not destitute of learning,two contemporary monarchs had never been instructedin the knowledge of the alphabet. But the genius of