OCR Output B. II.] AGAINST APION. 407 BOOK II. § 1. In the former book, most honored Epaphrcditus, Ihave demonstrated our antiquity, and confirmed the truth ofwhat I have said from the writings of the Phoenicians, andChaldeans, and Egyptians. I have, moreover, producedmany of the Grecian writers as witnesses thereto. I havealso made a refutation of Manetho and Cheremon, and ofcertain others of our enemies. I shall now,1 therefore, begina confutation of the remaining authors who have written anything against us; although I confess I have had a doubt upon *me about Apion2 the grammarian, whether I ought to takethe trouble of confuting him or not; for some of his writingscontain much the same accusations which the others havelaid against us; some things that he hath added are veryfrigid and contemptible; and for the greatest part of whathe says, it is very scurrilous, and to speak no more than theplain truth, it shows him to be a very unlearned person; andwhat he lays together looks like the work of a man of verybad morals, and of one no better in his whole life than amountebank. Yet because there are a great many men sovery foolish, that they arc rather caught by such orationsthan by what is written with care, and take pleasure in re­proaching other men, and cannot abide to hear them com­mended, I thought it to be necessary not to let this man gooff without examination, who had written such an accusationagainst us, as if ho would bring us to make an answer inopen court: for I also have observed, that many men arevery much delighted, when they see a man who first beganto reproach another, to be himself exposed to contempt onaccount of the vices he hath himself been guilty of. How- 1 The former part of this second book is written against the calumnies ofApion, Mid then, more briefly, against the like calumnies of ApolloniusMolo. But after that, Josephus leaves off any more particular reply tothose adversaries of the Jews, and gives us a large and excellent descriptionand vindication of that theocracy which was settled for the Jewish nation,by Moses, their great legislator. 8 Called by Tiberius, Cymbalum Mundi, The drum of the world.