OCR Output 58 THE DECLINE AND FALL chap. affected by the severity of the law. The honourableXIv' merchant of Alexandria, who imported the gems andspices of India, for the use of the western world; theusurer, who derived from the interest of money asilent and ignominious profit; the ingenious manu­facturer, the diligent mechanic, and even the mostobscure retailer of a sequestered village, were obligedto admit the officers of the revenue into the partner­ship of their gain: and the sovereign of the Romanempire, who tolerated the profession, consented toshare the infamous salary of public prostitutes. Asthis grpnpra| fav "pon industry was collected everyfourth year, it was styled the Lustral Contribution:and the historian Zosimus* laments that the approachof the fatal period was announced by the tears andterrors of the citizens, who were often compelled bythe impending scourge to embrace the most abhorredand unnatural methods of procuring the sum at whichtheir property had been assessed. The testimony ofZosimus cannot indeed be justified from the chargeof passion and prejudice; but, from the nature ofthis tribute, it seems reasonable to conclude that itwas arbitrary in the distribution, and extremelyrigorous in the mode of collecting. The secretwealth of commerce, and the precarious profits of artor labour, are susceptible only of a discretionary va­luation, which is seldom disadvantageous to the in­terest of the treasury; and as the person of the tradersupplies the want of a visible and permanent security,the payment of the imposition, which, in the case ofa land-tax, may be obtained by the seizure of pro­perty, can rarely be extorted by any other means thanthose of corporal punishments. The cruel treat­ment of the insolvent debtors of the state is attested, * Zosimus, I. ii. p. 115. There is probably as much passion and prejudicein the attack of Zosimus, as in the elaborate defence of the memory of Con-stantine by the zealous Dr. Howell. Hist. of the World, vol. ii. p. 20.