OCR Output 444 FLAVIUSJOSEPIIUS [b. II. rent notions of God, and had continued a long time in thefirm observance of such laws as ours, I cannot but supposethat all men would admire them, on a reflection upon the fre­quent changes they had therein been themselves subject to ;and this while those that have attempted to write somewhat ofthe same kind for politic government and for laws arc accusedas composing monstrous things, and are said to have under­taken an impossible task upon them. And here I will saynothing of those other philosophers who have undertaken anything of this nature in their writings. But even Plato him­self, who is so admired by the Greeks on account of thatgravity in his manners, and force in his words, and thatability he had to persuade men beyond all other philosophers,is little better than laughed at, and exposed to ridicule onthat account, by those that pretend to sagacity in politicalaffairs ; although he that shall diligently peruse his writingswill find his precepts to be somewhat gentle, and pretty nearto the customs of the generality of mankind. Nay, Platohimself confesseth, that it is not safe to publish the true notionconcerning God among the ignorant multitude. Yet do somemen look upon Plato's discourses as no better than certainidle words set off with great artifice. However, they admireLycurgus as the principal lawgiver: and all men celebrateSparta for having continued in the firm observance of his lawsfor a very long time. So far, then, we have gained that it isto be confessed a mark of virtue to submit to laws.1 Butthen, let such as admire this in the Lacedemonians comparethat duration of theirs with more than two thousand yearswhich our political government hath continued; and let themfarther consider, that though the Lacedemonians did seem toobserve their laws exactly, while they enjoyed their liberty,yet that when they underwent a change in their fortune theyforgot almost all those laws; while we having been under ten 1 It may not be amiss to set down hero a. very remarkable testimony oftho great philosopher Cicero as to the preference of laws to philosophy. " I-will," says he, " bol dly declare my opinion, though the whole world beoffended at it. I prefer this little book of the Twelve Tables alone to all thevolumes of the philosophers. I find it to be not only of more weight, butalso much more useful."—lis Oratore.