OCR Output 954 SELEUCEIA.SELEUCEIA. carefully executed plan, with drawings and sectionsof the tunnels, Ac, has lately been published by Cap­tain Allen, who surveyed the site of the harbour, butnot of the town, in 1850. {The ftetul Sea, <fc, Mapat end of vol. i., and vol. ii. pp. 208—230.) [G. W.J COIN OF SELEUCEIA IN* SYKIA. SELEUCEIA or SELEUCIA (2eA€i'«em.) I.A town near the northern frontier of Pisidia,Bumamed Sid era (t/ 2i5fjpa, Ptol. v. 5. § 4; Hierocl.p. 673), probably on account of iron-works in itsvicinity. There are some coins of this place withthe image of the Asiatic divinity Men, who was wor­shipped at Antioch, and bearing tlie inscription KAau-Si(T(reAeu«:ea'i', which might lead to the idea thattlte place was restored by the emperor Claudius.(Sestini, Man. Vet. p. 96.) Its site is now occupiedby the town of Ejerdir. 2. A town in Paniphylia between Side and themouth of the river Eurymedon, at a distance of80 stadia from Side, and at some distance from thesea. (Stadt'asm. Mar. Mag. § 216.) 3. An important town of Cilicia, in a fertile plainon the western bank of the Calycadnns, a few milesabove its mouth, was founded by Seleucus L, sur-named Nicator. A town or towns, however, hadpreviously existed on the spot under the names ofOlbia and Hyria, and Seleucus seems to have only |extended and united them in one town under thename Seleacia. The inhabitants of the neighbouringHolmi were at the same time transferred to the newtown, which was well built, and in a style verydifferent from that of other Cilichm and Pamphyliancities. (Steph. Ii. s. ?>.: Strab. adv. p. 670.) Insituation, climate, and the richness of its productions,it rivalled the neighbouring Tarsus, and it wasmuch frequented on account of the annual celebra­tion of tiic Olympia. and on account of the oracle ofApollo. (Zosim. i. 57: Basil. Vita S. Theclae, i. p.27"), Orat xxvii. p. 148.) Pliny (v. 27) statesthat it was surnamed Tracheotis; and snine ecclesi­astical historians, speaking of a council held there,call the town simply Trachea (Soaom. iv. 16; S>crat.ii. 39; comp. Ptol. v. 8. § 5; Atnm. Marc. xiv. 25;Oros. vii. 12.) The town still exists under thename of Selefk'teh, and its ancient remains arescattered over a large extent of ground on thewest side of the Calycadnus. The chief remain*are those of a theatre, in the front of which thereare considerable ruins, with porticoes and otherlarge buildings: farther on are the ruins of atemple, which had been converted into a Chris­tian church, and several large Corinthian co­lumns. Ancient Seleuceia, which appears to haveremained a free city ever since the time of Augustus,remained in the same condition even after a greatportion of Cilicia was given to An helaus of Cappa-docia, whence both imj>erial and autonomous coinsof the place are found. Seleuceia was the birthplaceof several men of eminence, smdi as the peripateticsAtheuaeus and Xenarchus, who flourished in the reign of Augustus, and the sophist Alexxtfa, vWtaught at Antioch. and was private &m*Mrr tat]cmt-cmr M. Aurelios (Philostr. Vit. Sua*, a!According to some authorities, lastly, the iTrajan died at Seleuceia (Eutmp. riii. 1 H: it. c.)t though others state that he died at Srisem COIN OF SELEI'CEIA IS CIUCIA. 4. Srleucia in Caria [ I kai.les.] [LISELEUCEIA or SELEUCIA (2#Aa*tVPv. 48; Strab. si. p. 521; Ptoi. v. 18. § &). atcity near the right bank of the Tunis, ldistinguish it from several other towns of the Iname, is generally known in history by tha IHt\tvK(ia tnl rca TiyfrrjTi. (Strab. xri. a. 71Appian, Syr. 57.) It was built by Seleacas I(Mrab. Lc\ riin. vi. 26. s. 30; TaciL U42; Joseph. Ant Jud. xviiL 9. § 8; Aram. |xxiii. 20), and appears to have been placed ljunction with the Tigris, of the peat dyki*was carried across Mesopotamia frun the Yto the Tigris, and which bore the name of iMalcha (the roval river). (PUn. i c.Char. p. 5.) Ptolemy states that the arttfdivided it into two parts (v. 19. § 8).other hand. Theophylact states that both lTigris and Euphrates, surrounded it like ai— by the latter, in all probability,Xahar Malcha (v. 6). It was situated aboox 4NE. of Babylon (according to Strabo, 9001and to the tab. Peutinger., 44 M P.). 1storiginal structure is said to have retenibkd Iwith its wings outspread. (Pirn. L c.)mainly constructed of materials hr uch; rrtmIon, and was one principal cause of the runelder city, as Ctesiphon was (some cmtarilof Seleuceia itself. (Strab. xri. p. 738.)placed in a district of great fertility,in its best days, to have had600,000 persons. (Plin./.c.) Strabowas even larger than Antiocheia Svnae,-probably the greatest commercialEast, with the exception of Alexandra* (ni fJ%Even so lute as the period of itspopulation is still stated to have amamillion. (Eutrop, v. 8; enmp. Oroa. vii. iits commercial importance it doubtless 1character of its local government, which Ihave been administered by means of a300 citizens. Polybius states that, oo tat tthrow of M<don, the Median rebels AnHermeias descended on Seleocria, whpreviously taken by Mokm, and, afterpeople by torture and the infliction of iexiled the local magistracy, wh» wen caJkafJganae. ('A&ttyavat, Polyb. v. 54.) Their Ifreed nm and of independent ^orernmeiit «iof longer duration. (Plin. L c.; Tacit. A%Seleuceia owed its ruin to the wiRomans with the P.irtbians andnations. It is first noticed in thai Iand Orodes (Dion Cass. xl. 20); bat it j