OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. terest to throw himself on the favour of the nation and the support of the Sara­cens. In his first conference with Amrou, he heard without indignation the usualoption of the Koran, the tribute, or the sword. "The Greeks," replied Mokaw-kas, " are determined to abide the determination of the sword; but with the GreeksI desire no communion, either in this world or in the next, and I abjure for everthe Byzantine tyrant, his synod of Chalcedon, and his Melchite slaves. For my-.self and my brethren, we are resolved to live and die in the profession of the gos­pel and unity of Christ. It is impossible for us to embrace the revelations of yourprophet; but we are desirous of peace, and cheerfully submit to pay tribute andobedience to his temporal successors." The tribute was ascertained at two piecesof gold for the head of every Christian: but old men, monks, women, and children,of both sexes, under sixteen years of age, were exempted from this personal as­sessment; the Copts above and below Memphis swore allegiance to the caliph,and promised a hospitable entertainment of three days to every Mussulman whoshould travel through their country. By this charter of security, the ecclesiasti­cal and civil tyranny of the Melchites was destroyed:(l) the anathemas of St. Cy­ril were thundered from every pulpit; and the sacred edifices, with the patrimonyof the church, were restored to the national communion of the Jacobites, who en­joyed without moderation the moment of triumph and revenge. At the pressingsummons of Amrou, their patriarch Benjamin emerged from his desert; and, af­ter the first interview, the courteous Arab affected to declare, that he had neverconversed with a Christian priest of more innocent manners, and a more venera­ble aspect.(2) In the march from Memphis to Alexandria, the lieutenant ofOmar intrusted his safety to the zeal and gratitude of the Egyptians; the roadsand bridges were diligently repaired; and in every step of his progress, he coulddepend on a constant supply of provisions and intelligence. The Greeks ofEgypt, whose numbers could scarcely equal a tenth of the natives, were over­whelmed by the universal defection; they had ever been hated, they were no lon­ger feared; the magistrate fled from his tribunal, the bishop from his altar; andthe distant garrisons were surprised or starved by*the surrounding multitudes-Had not the Nile afforded a safe and ready conveyance to the sea, not an individualcould have escaped, who, by birth, or language, or office, or religion, was con­nected with their odious name. By the retreat of the Greeks from the provinces of Upper Egypt, a considera­ble force was collected in the island of Delta; the natural and artificial channelsof the Nile afforded a succession of strong and defensible posts; and the road toAlexandria was laboriously cleared by the victory of the Saracens in two-and-twenty days of general or partial combat. In their annals of conquest, the siegeof Alexandria(3) is perhaps the most arduous and important enterprise. Thefirst trading city in the world was abundantly replenished with the means of sub­sistence and defence. Her numerous inhabitants fought for the dearest of humanrights, religion and property; and the enmity of the natives seemed to excludethem from the common benefit of peace and toleration. The sea was continual­ly open; and if Heraclius had been awake to the public distress, fresh armies ofRomans and barbarians might have been poured into the harbour to save the se­cond capital of the empire. A circumference of ten miles would have scatteredthe forces of the Greeks, and favoured the stratagems of an active enemy; butthe two sides of an oblong square were covered by the sea ami the lake Marccotis,awl each of the narrow ends exposed a front of nr> more than ten furlongs. Theefforts of the Arabs were not inadequate to the difficulty of the attempt and thevalue of the prize. From the throue of Medina, the eyes of Omar were fixed onthe camp and city: his voice excited to arms the Arabian tribes and the veteransof Syria; and the merit of a holy war was recommended by the peculiar fameand fertility of Egypt. Anxious for the ruin or expulsion of their tyrants, the (1) The prefecture of Egypt, and the conduct of the war, liatl been trusted by Heraclius to the patriarchCyrus. (Theophan. p. 280,331.) "In Spain (said James II.) do yon not consult your priests?"' ** We do (re­plied the catholic ambassador,) and our affairs succeed accordingly." I know not how to relate the plans ofCyrus, of paying tribute without impairing the revenue, and of converting Omar by his marriage with theemperor's daughter. (Nicephnr. Breviar. p. 17,18.) (2) See the Life of Benjamin, in Renaudot, (Hist. Patriarch. Alexandrin. p. 156—172.) who has enriched theconquest of Egypt with some facts from the Arabic text of Severus the Jacobite historian. (3) The local description of Alexandria is perfectly ascertained by the master-hand of the first of geographers(d'Anville, Memoire sur PEgypt, p. 52—63.;) but we may borrow the eyes of the modern travellers, more espe­cially of Thevenot (Voyage an Levant, part 1. p. 381—395.,) Pocock (vol. i. p. 2—13.,) and Niebuhr (Voyage enArabic, torn. i. p. 34—43.) Of the two modern rivals, Savary ant! Volney, the one may amuse, the other willinstruct. :