OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.^-BOOK XXVIII. 119 most drawing up by the hand those who followed, andthe hindmost lifting up those before them, they madetheir way to the summit; and from thence, with loudshouts, poured down into the city, which had beenalready taken by the Romans. Then it plainly ap­peared that resentment and hatred had been the mo­tives of the assault: no one thought of taking pri­soners, no one thought of booty, though the objects laybefore their eyes. The armed and unarmed wereslain without distinction, women and men promiscu­ously; the cruel rage of the soldiers proceeded even toslaying of infants. They then set fire to the houses,and what could not be thus destroyed, they levelled tothe ground; so earnest were they to erase every traceof the city, and to abolish every mark of the enemy'sresidence. Scipio from thence led his army to Cas-tulo, which was defended by a great concourse of Spa­niards, and also by the remains of the Carthaginianarmy, collected from the places whither they had dis­persed in their flight. But the news of the calamitiesof the Illiturgians had preceded the arrival of Scipio,and thrown the garrison into fright and despair; andas they were differently circumstanced, while eachparty wished to provide for their own safety, withoutregard to the rest, at first silent suspicion, afterward'sopen discord, ensued, and caused a separation betweenthe Carthaginians and Spaniards. Cerdubellus openlyadvised the latter to surrender. Himilco commandedthe Carthaginian garrison auxiliaries, who, togetherwith the city, were delivered up to the Romans byCerdubellus, after he had privately made terms forhimself. This victory was not followed with so muchseverity; the guilt of this people not having been sogreat as that of the former, and their voluntary sur­render mitigating, in some degree, the resentmentagainst them. 21. Marcius proceeded from thence, in order to re­duce to obedience such of the barbarians as had notbeen completely subdued. Scipio returned to NewCarthage, in order to pay his vows to the gods, and to