OCR Output 334 NOTES ON THE nioza. Xiyn to» £»ra, o 15-1 ip^um, /tons ya% iut a.\vyyi Sam £; -,*,i^iij. «tj o> yuSa^cjixoi f>«wi to» j^aXxm Turn avm%ui $ucrt(» vsu- fAXTI, ho Kj til AvOAXM! TfMSOU; TOMVTO; aiaxlITOU. «J II IDII^MI C! But Hermias the philosopher, in his MS. Commentary on thePhxdrus of Plato, gives us the following satisfactory informationrespecting the oracle in Dodona. The reader who is desirousof seeing the original of this passage, may find it in page 11 ofthe Collection of Oracles by Opsopoeus. "Different accountsare given of the Dodonean oracle; for it is the most ancient ofthe Grecian oracles. According to some, an oak prophesied inDodona; but according to others, doves. The truth howeveris, that priestesses whose heads were crowned with oak prophe­sied ; and these women were called by some peleiades, or doves.Perhaps therefore certain persons being deceived by the name,suspected that doves prophesied in Dodona; and as the headsof these women were crowned with oak, perhaps from this cir­cumstance they said that an oak prophesied. But this oraclebelongs to Jupiter, and that in Delphos to Apollo. With greatpropriety therefore are these oracles considered as allied to eachother. For Apollo is said to be the assistant of Jupiter in theadministration of things: and often when the Dodonean oracleappeared to be obscure, the oracle in Delphos has been consulted,in order to know the meaning of that of Jupiter. Often tooApollo has interpreted many of the Dodonean oracles. Priest­esses, therefore, when in an enthusiastic and prophetic condition,nave greatly benefited mankind by predicting and previously cor­recting future events; but when in a prudent state, they weresimilar to other women." Page 227. Homcr.~\ Iliad 23. ver. 584. Page 233. One of the nymphs belonging to the sea sell in lovetuilh him.] We have (hewn in a foimer note, that the last orderof powers that are the perpetual attendants of the gods, and theproximate guardians of mortal natures, has a great sympathy with