OCR Output 324 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLiy. ly absurd. The secret or probable wish of the dead wassuffered to prevail over the order of succession and theforms of testaments; and the claimant, who was ex­cluded from the character of heir, accepted with equalpleasure from an indulgent praetor the possession of thegoods of his late kinsman or benefactor. In the redressof private wrongs, compensations and fines were substi­tuted to the obsolete rigour of the twelve tables; timeand space were annihilated by fanciful suppositions; andthe plea of youth, or fraud, or violence, annulled the ob­ligation, or excused the performance, of an inconvenientcontract. A jurisdiction thus vague and arbitrary wasexposed to the most dangerous abuse; the substance,as well as the form, of justice, were often sacrificedto the prejudices of virtue, the bias of laudable affec­tion, and the grosser seductions of interest or resent-,ment. But the errors or vices of each praetor expiredwith his annual office; such maxims alone as had beenapproved by reason and practice were copied by succeed­ing judges; the rule of proceeding was defined by thesolution of new cases; and the temptations of injusticewere removed by the Cornelian law, which compelledthe praetor of the year to adhere to the letter and spiritof his first proclamation,1 It was reserved for the curi­osity and learning of Hadrian, to accomplish the designwhich had been conceived by the genius of Ceesar; andthe praetorship of Salvius Julian, an eminent lawyer,uw! edict0" w^s immortalized by the composition of the perpetualedict. This well-digested code was ratified by the em­peror and the senate; the long divorce of law and equitywas at length reconciled; and, instead of the twelvetables, the perpetual edict was fixed as the invariablestandard of civil jurisprudence.™ 1 Dion Cassius (tom. 1. lib. 36. p. 100.) fixes perpetual edicts in the year of Rome686. Their institution, however, is ascribed to the year 585 in the Acta Diurna,which have been published from the papers of Ludnvicus Vivea. Their authenticity'is supported or allowed by Pighius, (Annal. Roman. tom. 2. p. 377, 378.) Gravida,(ad Sueton. p. 778.) Dodwell, (PraJection. Camden, p. 665.) and Heineccius; hat asingle word, Scutum Cimbricum, detects the forgery. (Moyle's Works ,vol. I. p. 303.) m The history of edicts is composed, and the text of the perpetual edict is restored