OCR Output B. I.] AGAINST APION. 397 before him had already seen them. He had then been in­formed what sort of gods were, and after what manner theyhad been seen, insomuch that he did not stand in need of anynew artifice for obtaining this sight. However, the prophetby whose means the king thought to compass his design wasa wise man. If so, how came he not to know that such hisdesire was impossible to be accomplished ? for the event didnot succeed. And what pretence could there be to supposethat the gods would not be seen by reason of the people'smaims in their bodies, or leprosy ? for the gods are not angryat the imperfection of bodies, but at wicked practices: and asto eighty thousand lepers, and those in an ill state also, howis it possible to have them gathered together in one day ? nay,how came the king not to comply with the prophet ? for hisinjunction was that those who were maimed should be expelledout of Egypt, while the king only sent them to work in thequarries, as if he were rather in want of laborers than intendedto purge bis country. He says farther, that " this prophetslew himself, as foreseeing the anger of the gods, and thoseevents which were to come upon Egypt afterward; and thathe left this prediction for the king in writing." Besides, howcame it to pass that this prophet did not foreknow his owndeath at the first? nay, how came he not to contradict theking in his desire to see the gods immediately ? how camethat unreasonable dread upon him of judgments that were notto happen in his life-time ? or what worse thing could he suffer,out of the fear of which he made haste to kill himself? Butnow let us see the silliest thing of all. — The king, althoughhe had been informed of these things, and terrified with thefear of what was to come, yet did not he even then eject thesemaimed people out of his country, when it had been foretoldhim that he was to clear Egypt of them: but as Manethosays, — " He then, upon their request, gave them that city toinhabit, which had formerly belonged to the shepherds, andwas called Avaris ; whither when they were gone in crowds,"he says, " they chose one that had formerly been priest of He-liopolis ; and that this priest first ordained that they shouldneither worship the gods nor abstain from those animals thatIV. — 34