OCR Output AN.1532.J 99 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. so unexpectedly befel them; but Moses in-treated their brethren and their father not tobe troubled for them; to prefer their honourof God before their grief about them; forAaron had already put on his sacred garments.Moses refused all that honour which he sawthe multitude ready to bestow upon him, andattended to nothing but the service of God.He went no more up to mount Sinai; but hewent into the tabernacle, and brought backanswers from God to what he prayed for.His habit was also that of a private man; andin all other circumstances he behaved him­self like one of the common people, and wasdesirous to appear without distinguishinghimself from the multitude, but would haveit known that he did nothing but to take careof them. He also set down in writing theform of their government, and those laws, by * These answers by the oracle of Urimand Thummim,which words signify light and perfection, or, astheLXXII.renders them, Aiikugis xai AXrjdsia, revelation and truth;and denote nothing faither, that I see, but the shiningstones themselves, which were used in this method of illu­mination, in revealing the will of God, after a perfect andtrue manner, to his people Israel: I say, these answerswere not made by the shining of the precious stones, afteran awkward manner, in the high-priest's breast-plate, asthe modern Rabbins vainly suppose, and as the learnedinterpret Philo and Josephus, but without any sufficientfoundation, so far as I see; for certainly the shining of thestones might precede or accompany the oracle, withoutitself delivering that oracle; see Antiq. VI. 6; but ratherby an audible voice from the mercy-seat, between thecherubim. See Prid. Connect, at the year 534, at large.This oracle had been silent, as Josephus here informs us,'200 years before he wrote his Antiquities, or ever sincethe days of John Hyrcanus, the last good high-priest of thefamily of the Maccabees. Now it is worth our observa­tion, that the oracle before us, was that by which God ap­peared to be present with, and gave directions to hispeople Israel, as their king, all the while they submittedto him in that capacity, and did not set over them such in­dependent kings as governed according to their own willsand political maxims, instead of divine directions; accord­ingly we met with this oracle, besides angelic, and pro­phetic admonitions all along, from the days of Moses andJoshua to the anointing of Saul, the first of the successionof kings. Numb, xxvii. 21, Judg. i. 1, xviii. 5, 6, xx. 18,23, 26, 27, 1 Sam. i. 14, iii. per tot. iv. per tot. Nay, tillSaul's rejection of the divine commands in the war withAmalek, when he took upon him to act as he thought fithimself, 1 Sam. xiv. 18, 19, 36, 37. Then this oracleleft Saul entirely, (which indeed he had seldom consultedbefore; see 1 Sam. xvi. 35, 1. Chron. xiii. 3, Joseph.Antiq. VII. 4,) and accompanied David, who was anointedto succeed him, and who consulted God by it frequently,and complied with its directions constantly. See 1 Sam.xxii. 13, 15, xxiii. 9, 10, xxx. 7, 8, 2 Sam. ii. l,v. 19,23,xxi. 1, 1 Chron, xiv. 10, 14, Joseph. Antiq. VI. 12, VII. ▼oi>- ',—no. 9. obedience to which they would lead theirlives so as to please God, and so as to haveno quarrels one among another. However,the laws he ordained were such as God sug­gested to him; so I shall now discourse con­cerning that form of government and thoselaws. I will now treat of what I before omitted,the garment of the high-priest: for Mosesleft no room for the evil practices of falseprophets; but, if some of that sort should at­tempt to abuse the Divine authority, he leftit to God to be present at his sacrifices whenhe pleased, and when he pleased to be ab­sent. And he was willing this should be knownnot to the Hebrews only, but to those foreign­ers also who were there. For as to thosesardonyxes* which the high-priest bare on hisshoulders, the one of them shined out when 4. Saul, indeed, long after his rejection by God, andwhen God had given him up to destruction for his disobe­dience, did once afterwards endeavour to consult Godwhen it was too late; but God would not then answer him,neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets; 1Sam. xxvii. 6. Nor did any of David's successors, thekings of Judah, that we know of, consult God by this ora­cle till the Babylonish captivity, when those kings wereat an end, they taking upon them, I suppose, too much ofdespotic power and royalty, and too little owning the Godof Israel for the supreme King of Israel, though a few ofthem consulted the prophets sometimes, and were an­swered by them. At the return of the two tribes, with­out the return of the kingly government, the restorationof this oracle was expected: Neh. vii. 65, 1 Esd. v. 40,: 1 Mac. iv. 46, and indeed it may seem to have been re­stored for some time after the Babylonish captivity, atleast in the days of that excellent high-priest, John Hyr­canus, whom Josephus esteemed as a king, a priest, and aprophet, and who, he says, foretold several things thatcame to pass accordingly; but about the time of his death,he here implies, that this oracle quite ceased, and not be­fore, the following high-priests, now putting diadems ontheir heads, and ruling according to their own will, and bytheir own authority, like the other kings of the pagancountries about them, so that while the God of Israel wasallowed to be the supreme King of Israel, and his direc­tions to be their authentic guides, God gave them suchdirections as their supreme king and governor, and theywere properly under a theocracy, this oracle of Urim, butno longer; see Dr. Bernard's notes here; though I con­fess I cannot but esteem the high-priest Jaddus's divinedream, Antiq. XI. 8, and the high-priest Caiaphas's mostremarkable prophecy, John xi. 47—52, as two small re­mains, or specimens, of this ancient oracle, which properlybelonged to the Jewish priests; nor, perhaps, ought weentirely to forget that eminent prophetic dream of ourJosephus himself, (one next to the high-priest, as of thefamily of the Asmoneans or Maccabees, by his mother'sside, and by his father of the first of the twenty-fourclasses of the" priests,) as to the succession of Vespasian Cc