OCR Output PETRA. PETRA. 583 1 (Itirft: Eli. Ilrrpam, Petrinns: Petralia),> ay i Situ mentioned both by Pliny andMan mail; U» inland towns of the island.i'm ib> man the Petrini among the commu-i that nfttred from the exactions of Verm(&, lirr. iil 391 Plin. iii. 8. a. U; Ptol. iii. 4.114); mi their Dane is mentioned at an earlier;ma tn Itaionu as submitting to the Romanserx lis rint Ptuik War. (Diod. xxiii. 18; Exc.S n 505.) The name is written Petraea by Siliushucn (or. 148), and the Petrinae of the AntonineI'ltirr ■ mall probability the same place, (/tin.Jata91) Though so often mentioned by ancientttkm, tart afford Terr little doe to its position;an t it probable that the name is retained bj thesain I'Hmlia. a small town about 8 miles W. ofwppowi to rrpreaent the ancient Engyum.[btrra.] Ptolemy indeed places these two townstar tat untber, though he erroneously transfersCim butt to the neighbourhood of Syracuse, which * »Mr at variance with the mention of Petra inusine among the towns subject to the Cartha-(tsts a iu u B.C. 254. (Clurer. Sicil p.K.) [E. H. B.] 3 A t-txmi of Macedonia, among the mount-Cj Vrotd Libethra. the possession of which * looted by the Tbessalian Perrhaebi and theanemia kingj, (l,iT. xxxix. 26, xliv. 39.) Itsaxmkd a put which led to Pytbinm in Thea-h ir Ua back of Olympus. By this road L.""•in ranDui was enabled to throw a detach-n « the rear of the Macedonian army whichv rmrpej on the Eoipeus, after the forces of atd been overthrown at the pass of Petra[I Aia» Xatica. who had been sent against ita im coram Ii eldest son Q. Fabius Maxim us. ■ 41.) Petra waa situated on a great insu-W vk naturally separated from the adjoiningSatan at the pass which leads from Klatuna orest irta the maritime plains of llacedonia. Here,•a ■ at sort I he least difficult and most direct*• rottst aenas toe Olympene barrier, or thetaw bftweee Macedonia and Tbessaly, exactly*» IjfU. art the mint of Petra. (Leake, Korth-toI. Si. pp. 337,430.) [E. B. J.] * A tama of the Maedi, in Thrace. (Llv. xl. k A !»«• in niyricum, situated upon a hill upon•kick bad only a moderately good harbour.■»*CB.4J.) I A plat* it the Corintbiav [Vol I. p. 68S, a.]'A plate in the immediate neighbourhood ofk[VtlLa.88l,a.] [*TU. IL U Atia. 1. (ntVpo, Ptol. v. 17. ^ '* 10. J 19; rierpa or n«Tpai. Said. t. t>.tkt Sua of the Old Testament, 27; li'il, xtl 1: respecting ita various *" Robiaano, Biblical Aeaeorcou, vol. ii. «• «aJ 10. p. 653), the chief town of Arabia ■** an the ca|«tal of the Idumaeans and tawittv af the Nahaiaei, now Wady Muia. ham.) <** »u rilaated in the eastern part of■ IMrata. it the district called under the - of Borne Palaestina Tenia ( Vet.p. 711. Weasel.; Malala, Ckronogr. xvi.«i DLfta). According to the division of■""it rngripbers, it lay in the northern dis-*-f^»lrw; whilst the modern ones place it in portion, fjk-Sherah, the Seir, or moun-•( tie Old Testament (G«ne»i». xxxvi. 8). It was seated between the Dead Sea and the Elaniticgulf; being, according to Diodorns Skulus (xix. 98),300 stadia S. of the former, whilst the Tab. Peut.places it 98 Roman miles N. of the latter. Its siteis a wilderness overtopped by Mount Ilor, and diver­sified by cliffs, ravines, plains, and Wadys. or wateredvalleys, for the most part but ill cultivated. Strabo(xvi. p. 779) describes it as seated in a plain sur­rounded with rocks, hemmed in with barren andstrrumless deserts, though the plain itself is wellwatered. Pliny's description (vi. 32), which states,the extent of the plain at rather less than 2 miles,agrees very nearly with that of Strabo, and both areconfirmed by the reports of modern travellers. "Itis an area in the bosom of a mountain, swelling intomounds, and intersected with gullies." (lrby andMangles, ch. viii.) It must not, however, be under­stood to be completely hemmed in with rocks. To­wards the N. and S. the view is open ; and from theeastern part of the valley the summit of Mount Horis seen over the western cliffs. (Robinson, ii. p. 528.)According to Pliny (i. c.) Petra was a place of greatresort for travellers. Petra was subdued by A. Cornelius Palma, alieutenant of Trajan's (Dion Cass. Ixviii. 14), andremained under the Roman dominion a consider­able time, as we hear of the province of Arabia beingenlarged by Septiniius Severus A. t>. 195 (id. lxxv.1,2; Eutrop. viii. 18). It must have been duringthis period that those temples and mausoleums weremade, the remains of which still arrest the attentionof the traveller; for though the predominant style ofthe architecture is Egyptian, it is mixed with floridand over-loaded Roman-Greek specimens, whichclearly indicate their origin. (Robinson, ii. p. 532.) The valley of Wady Mvsa, which leads to thetown, is about 150 feet broad at its entrance, and isencircled with cliffs of red sandstone, which graduallyincrease from a height of 40 or 50 feet to 200 or 250feet Their height has been greatly exaggerated,having been estimated by some travellers at 700and even 1000 feet (lrby and Mangles, ch. viii.;Stephens, ii. p. 70; see Robinson, ii. p. 517 and note).The valley gradually contracts, till at one spot it be­comes only about 12 feet broad, and is so overlappedby the cliffs that the light of day is almost excluded.The ravine or Sik of Wady Mum extends, with manywindings, for a good English mile. It forms theprincipal, and was anciently the only avenue to Petra,the entrance being broken through the wall. (Diod.Sic. ii. 48, xix. 97; Robinson, ii. p. 516; Lahorde,p. 55.) This valley contains a wonderful necropolishewn in the rocks. The tombs, which adjoin orsurmount one another, exhibit now a front with sixIonic •columns, now with four slender pyramids, andby their mixture of Greek, Roman, and Orientalarchitecture remind the spectator of the remainswhich are found in the valley of Jehoahaphat and inother parts of Palestine. The further tide of theravine is spanned by a bold arch, perhaps a trium­phal one, with finely-sculptured niches evidently in­tended for 3tatues. This, like the other remains ofthis extraordinary spot, is ascribed by the nativeseither to the Pharaohs or to the Jins or evil genii.Along the bottom of the valley, in which it almostvanishes, winds the stream mentioned by Strabo aridPliny, the small but charming Wady Muta. Inancient times its bed seems to have been paved, asmany traces still show. Its stream was spanned byfrequent bridges, its sides strengthened with stonewalls or quays, and numerous small canals derived r r 4