OCR Output THE HISTORY B c o K anc] not only men's bodies were afflicted by the con-^_ ._,T- _. tagion, but fuperftitions of various kinds, and moftlyY K. in. of foreign growth, took pofieflion alfo of theirU. C. 415. minds; while thofe who converted to their own gainthe weaknefs of minds enflaved by fuperftition,through their pretences to the art of divination, intro足duced into people's families new modes of worfhip,until, at length, the principal men of the ftatc weretouched with fhame for the difhonour brought onthe public, feeing in every ftreet and chapel foreignand unaccuftomed ce remonies of expiation practifed,for obtaining the favour of the gods. A charge wasthen given to the aecliles, to fee that no other godsfhoukl be worshipped, than thofe acknowledged bythe Romans; nor they, in any other modes thanthofe eftablifhed by the cuftom of the country. Theprofccution of their refentment againft the Veien-tians, was deferred to the enfuing year, whereiny.R. 31!!. Caius Servilius Ahala and Lucius Papirius Mugilla-B. c. 414. nus werc confuls: even then, an immediate decla足ration of war and the march of the army were pre足vented by fuperftition. It was deemed neceflarythat the heralds fhould firft be fent to demand refti-tution. There had been open war, and battlesfought, with the Veientians, not long before, at No-mentum and Fidenae, fince which not a peace, but atruce, had been concluded, the term of which hadnot yet expired, and they, before its expiration, hadrenewed holulities. Neverthclefs, the heralds werefent, and when, after taking the cuftomary oath, theydemanded reftitution, no attention was paid to them.Then arofe a difpute whether the war mould be de足clared, by order of the people, or whether a decreeof the fenate were fufficient. The tribunes bythreatening openly, that they would hinder any levyof foidicrs, carried the point that the confuls fhouldtake the fenfe of the people concerning the war. Allthe centuries voted for it. In another particular too the