OCR Output 44 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767. be suffered to tarnish in the eye of the public. Whatis seen at a distance, is most respected. If Drususand Germanicus reserved some points for the consi­deration of their father, the inexperience of youthwould be a sufficient apology. Should the mutineerspersist with obstinacy, there would still be time forthe prince to interpose, and either by rigour, or con­ciliating measures, to restore the ancient discipline.If he went in person, and the insurgents spurned hisauthority, what resource was left?—These considera­tions had their weight; and yet, to have the appear­ance of being willing to face his armies was part of.his policy. He played this game so well, that heseemed every day upon the point of leaving Rome.He settled his train of attendants, ordered his campequipage, equipped his fleets; still contriving, byspecious pretences, to give a colour to delay. Thewinter season, he said, was near at hand, and theweight of affairs at Rome claimed his attention. Themost discerning were for some time the dupes of hisdissimulation. The people were much longer amused, delusion. XLVIH. Germanicus in the mean time was ready,with his collected force, to act against the rebel le­gions. He was willing, notwithstanding, to suspend'his operations, till time should show whether the lateexample had wrought the minds of the soldiers tosubmission, and a due sense of their duty. With this,intent, he sent despatches to Carina, to inform thatofficer, that he was advancing at the head of a power­ful army; resolved, if justice was not previously exe­cuted, to put the whole body to the sword. Cojcinacommunicated, in a confidential manner, his secretinstructions to the standard-bearers, to the inferior of­ficers, and such of the private men as were known tobe well affected. He recommended to them to avertthe danger that hung over the legions, and in goodtime to secure their lives. In times of peace, he said,there is always leisure to investigate the truth, andseparate the man of merit from the turbulent and se- and the provinces were