OCR Output 458 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. to fortify it with an entrenchment, to which they mightretreat in case of a defeat: and equally regardless of thegods, 33 they had been deficient in human precaution,without auspices, without sacrifices, they drew up theirarmy, extending the wing? , that they might not be sur­rounded by their enemies numbers. But, although byextending their wings in that manner, they had thinnedand weakened their centre to a great degree, yet rfHltheir front fell short of that of the enemy's. Upon theirright was a small eminence, where they thought properto post a corps-de-reserve; that circumstance occasionedtheir first fear and flight, and was the only means of se­curing their retreat. Breonus, the Gaulic general, having a strong "appre­hension, that some design lay concealed in the smallntssof the enemy's numbers; and imagining that they hadtaken possession of the height, with a view to attack himwith this body of reserve, both in rear and flank, themoment the front lines were engaged, thought it ne­cessary to begin with charging the reserved troop; con­vinced, if they were once dislodged, with so great a su­periority in point of numbers, that he could easily obtainthe victory in the open plain. Thus the Barbarians no^only had fortune on their side, but the prudent conductof an able commander. -In the other army, neither generals nor soldiersshowed any thing of the Roman character. A suddenpanic, and the thoughts of escaping, had arrested all theirfaculties: nay, so much were they lost to all reflectionwhatever, that by far the greater part fled to Veil, anenemy's capital, with the Tiber in their way, rather thanstraight to Rome, to their wives and children. The situ­ation of the place, for some little time, contributed-to thedefence of the corps-de-reserve. But, whenever the restof the army heard the shouts of the Gauls, which seem­ed to those who stood next, to have been raised from theflank, and, to the most remote, from their rear, they fledin a body without striking a stroke, or even returning theenemy's shout, and so far were they from feeling, thatthey had but barely seen this strange enemy. Noneof them fell in battle; but in the rout, where the crowdand hurry of the fugitives incumbered the flight, thoseID the rear were cut to pieces, A great slaughter was