OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 295 years, and lie reigned above twenty years over the chap.East and over himself*; expelling from his mind the xxxvm-wild democracy of passions, and establishing (accord­ing to the quaint expression of Evagrius) a perfectaristocracy of reason and virtue. Some suspicion willdegrade the testimony of a subject, though he pro­tests that his secret praise should never reach the earof his sovereign, and some failings seem to place thecharacter of Maurice below the purer merit of hispredecessor. His cold and reserved demeanour mightbe imputed to arrogance; his justice was not alwaysexempt from cruelty, nor his clemency from weak­ness; and his rigid economy too often exposed himto the reproach of avarice. But the rational wishesof an absolute monarch must tend to the happiness ofhis people; Maurice was endowed with sense andcourage to promote that happiness, and his admini­stration was directed by the principles and example ofTiberius. The pusillanimity of the Greeks had in­troduced so complete a separation between the officesof king and of general, that a private soldier who haddeserved and obtained the purple seldom or neverappeared at the head of his armies. Yet the emperorMaurice enjoyed the glory of restoring the Persianmonarch to his throne: his lieutenants waged adoubtful war against the Avars of the Danube, and hecast an eye of pity, of ineffectual pity, on the abjectand distressful state of his Italian provinces. From Italy the emperors were incessantly tor- Distress ofmented by tales of misery and demands of succour, Italy-which extorted the humiliating confession of their ownweakness. The expiring dignity of Rome was onlymarked by the freedom and energy of her complaints:"If you are incapable," she said, "of delivering us • Consult, for the character and reign of Maurice, the fifth and sixth books ofEvagrius, particularly 1. vi. c. 1; the eight books of his prolix and florid historyby Theopliylact Simocatta. Theophanes, p. 213, &c. Zonaras, tom. ii. 1. xiv.p. 73. Cedrenus, p. 394. U 4