OCR Output ITHACESIAE INSULAE. 99 ITIUS PORTUS. —74, bat they have been successfully confuted byBiihle von Lilienstera, Veber das IJomerische Ithaca.The fullest anthorities on the subject of this articleare Gell, Geography and Antiquities of Jtltaca,London, 180"; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp.24—55; Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. i. pp. 38—81;Bowen./tfrtOi t'a 1850, London, 1852.) [G. F. B.] ITHACE'SIAE INSULA E, is the name given byPliny (iii. 7. s. 13) to some small islets opposite toVibo on the \V. coast of Bruttium. These can bedo other than some mere rocks (too small to bemarked on ordinary maps) which lie just oppositeto the remains of Bicona, in the Golfo di Sta. Eu-femia, and on which some traces of ancient build-in?* (probably connected with that port) were stillrisible in the days of Barrio. (Barrius, de Situ Calabr.ii. 13: Romanelli, vol i. p. 57). [E. H. B.] ITHO'ME ('l&inri: Eth. '18»^<rjjt, 'Wupuuos).1. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessaly, described byHomer as the" rocky Ithome " (^l&wun KKca/xaKdaraa,A ii. 729), is placed by Strubo within a quadranglef.rraed by the four cities, Tricca, Metropolis, Pelin-raeum, and Gomphi. (Strab. ix. p. 437.) It pro­bably occupied the site of the castle which stands onthe summit above the village of Fandri. LeakeofcwrteJ, near the north-western face of the castle,some remains of a very ancient Hellenic wall, consist­ing of a few large masses of stone* roughly hewn onthe ontside, but accurately joined to one anotherwithout cement. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv.p. 510.) 1 A mountain fortress in Messcnia, where theMtssniaiis long maintained themselves against theSpiruns in the First Messenian War. It was after­wards the citadel of Messene, when this city wasfounded by Epaminondas. For details, see Mks- SEXK. lTHtyRIA ClOvpla), a town in Aetolia, near theAchelous, and a short distance south of Conope. Itwas situated at the entrance of a pass, and wasstrongly fortified both by nature and by art. It wastaken by Philip V., and levelled to the ground,B.C.219. (Pol. iv. 64.) ITIUM PROMONTO'RIUM, is placed by Ptolemy(5- 9. § 1) in Celtogalatia Belgica. After the mouthsof the Seine, he mentions the outlet of the river Phru-da [Frudis], Icium (^\kiov aVpov), and then Ge-•xiacam (rVropiaxov twiveiov), which is Boulogne.One of the old Latin versions of Ptolemy has ItiumPronwntorium, and others may have it too. He placesGooriacum and Itium in the same latitude, andItiom dne west of Gesoriacum. This is a great mis-lake, for, Itium being Cap Grisnez, the relative po-"tiw of the two places is north and south, instead«f east and west. There is no promontory on thispart of the French coast north or south of Boulogneu»pt Grisnez, at which point the coast changes itsdirection from south to north, and runs in a generalEXE. direction to Calais, Grarslmes, and Dun-bryv. It is therefore certain that there is a great■isiake in Ptolemy, both in the direction of the coast•ad the relative position of Gesoriacum and Itium.'-tp Gritaez is a chalk cliff, the termination on the^ast of the chalk hills which cross the department'Pot at Calais. The chalk cliffs extend a few*»'« '* each side of Cap Grisnez, and are clearly<*n from the English coast on a fine day. This^i* is the nearest point of the French coast to the'IfiMt* coast of A'enr. [G. L.] ITWS PORTUS (to 'Itiok, Strab. p. 199)."i« Caesar was preparing for his second British ex- pedition (n. c. 54), he says (Z?. G. v. 2) that he or­dered his forces to meet at "Portus Itius, from whichport he had found that there was tie most conve­nient passage to Britannia, — about 30,000 passus."In his first expedition, B. c. 55, he says that hemarched, with all his forces, into the country of theMorini, because the passage from that coast to Bri­tannia was the shortest (B. G. iv. 21) ; but he doesnot name the port from which he sailed in his firstexpedition ; and this is an omission which a mancan easily understand who has formed a correct no­tion of the Commentaries. It seems a plain conclu­sion, from Caesar's words (v. 2) that he sailed fromthe Itius on his first expedition; for he marchedinto the country of the Morini, in order to make theshortest passage (iv. 21) ; and he made a good pas­sage (iv. 23). In the fifth book he gives the distancefrom the Itius to the British coast, but not in tliofourth book; and we conclude that he ascertainedthis distance in his first voyage. Drumann (G'e-schichte Jioms, voL iii. p. 294) thinks that the pas­sage in the fifth book rather proves that Caesar didnot sail from Itius on his first voyage. We must ac­cordingly suppose that, having had a good passageon his first voyage to Britannia, and back to theplace from which he had sailed, he chose to try adifferent passage the second time, which passage hehad learned (cognoverat) to be the most convenient(coimnodissimum). Yet he landed at the same placein Britannia in both his voyages (v. 8) ; and he hadascertained (cognoverat) in the first voyage, as hesays, that this was the best landing-place. So Dru­mann, in his way, may prove, if he likes, that Caesardid not land at the same place in both voyages. The name Itius gives some reason for supposingthat Portus Itias was near the Promontorium Itium;and the opinion now generally accepted is, that PortusItius is Wissant or Witsand, a few miles cast of CapGrisnez. The critics have fixed Portus Itius at va­rious places; but not one of these guesses, and theyare all guesses, is worth notice, except the guess thatItius is Gesoriacum or Boulogne. But the nameGesoriacum is not Itius, which is one objection tothe supposition. The only argument in favour ofBoulogne is, that it was the usual place from whichthe Romans sailed for Britannia after the time ofClaudius, and that it is in the country of the Mo­rini. Gesoriacum was the best spot that the Romanscould choose for a regular place of embarkation, forit is adapted to be the site of a town and a fortifiedplace, and has a small river. Accordingly it becamethe chief Roman position on this part of the Frenchcoast. [Gksouiacitm.] The distance of Portus Itius from the nearest portof Britannia, 30 M.P., is too much. It seems to bea just conclusion, that Caesar estimated the distancefrom his own experience, and therefore that he esti­mated it either to the cliffs about the South Foreland,where he anchored, or to the place seven or eightmiles (for the MSS. of Caesar vary here) furtheralong the coast, where he landed. It is certain thathe first approached the British coast under the highclialk cliffs between Folkestone and Walmer. It isa disputed point whether he went from his anchorageunder the cliffs northwards to Deal, or southward toSandgate or Ilythe. This matter does not affect theposition of Itius, and it is not discussed here; butthe writer maintains that Caesar landed on the beachat DeaL There are difficulties in this question, whichthe reader may examine by referring to the autho­rities mentioned at the end of this article. The pas­ It 2