OCR Output MYCENAE. 381 MYCENAE .-mi flue, which spread out under its walls towards!ir "Trt mi loath; and secondly the most import-is rasas from the Corinthian gulf, the roads from(iba, Sana, Ctonae, and Corinth, unite in thei vtttias ibove Mycenae, and pass under the height-j t thich the city stands. It was said to haveInUtb Perseus (Strab. viii. p. 377; Pans. B.II §t S. 16. §3), and its massive walls were be­ta kite been the work of the Cyclopes. Hencecalls Mycenae v6\tTfm rifpfftws, KokAw-w rinr x»pi, (Iphig. in Aul. 1500). It wasL* fsrasrits residence of the Pclopidae, and under.CiraoM! was regarded as the first city in Greece.Bni its called ToAvYpixro; by Homer (/ivii.180, Ixl M),*bo also gives it the epithets of tvpvdyvia k S) and ivm'/urov xro\ltepoy (/I ii. 569). jb rtaiaas belongs only to the heroic age, and itmm t»k*l place of importance after the return ofiSfflscitsdae and the settlement of the Dorians in |Irna, vfaich then became the first city in the plain,hear, however, maintained its independence, andte mm of its citizens to the assistance of thet the host of Xerxes, although the Ar-r-i bpt aloof from the common cause. Eightyere present at Thermopylae (Herod.S"S). and 400 of their citizens and of the Tiryn-at Plataeae (Herod, ix. 28). In'& the Dorians of Argos, resolving to bringwbalc district under their sway, laid siege tocat; bat the massive walls resisted all theirthey were obliged to have recourse toFamine at length compelled the inha-Ks to abandon the city; more than half of them took refuge in Macedonia, and the remainder in Cle-onae and Ceryneia. (Diod. xi. 65; Strab. viii.pp.372, 377: I'hus. ii. 16. §5, v. 23. § 3, vii. 25.§ 3, viii, 27. § 1.) From this time Mycenae remaineduninhabited, for the Argives took care that thisstrong fortress should remain desolate. Strabo, how­ever, committed a gross exaggeration in saying thatthere was not a vestige of Mycenae extant in bistime (viii. p. 372). The ruins were visited by Pan-sanias, who gives the following account of them (ii.15, 16):—"Returning to the jiass of the Tretus,and following the road to Argos, you have the ruinsof Mycenae on the left hand. Several parts of thoenclosure remain, and among them is the gate uponwhich the lions stand. These also are said to be thework of the Cyclopes, who built the walls of Tirynsfur Proelus. Among the ruins of the city there isa fountain named l'erseia, and subterraneous build­ings (winrycua otVcoctojuTj/saTa) of Atreus and hissons, in which their treasures were deposited. Thereare likewise the tombs of Atreus, of his charioteerEurymedon, of Electra, and a sepulchre in commonof Teledamus and I'elops, who are said to have beentwin sons of Cassandra. But Clytaemnestra andAegisthus were buried at a little distance from thewalls, being thought unworthy of burial where Aga­memnon lay." The ruins of Mycenae are still very extensive,and, with the exception of those of Tiryns, are moraancient than those of any other city in Greece. Theybelong to a period long antecedent to all historicalrecords, and may be regarded as the genuine relicsof the heroic age. TI.AN Of THE RUINS OK MVCKNAE. B. Oate of l.lon«.s building, usually called the Treasury D. Subterraneous building. E. Village of Khanati. - tftsa su of an Acropolis and a lower | of which the base fronts the south west, and theby a wall. The Acropolis was apex the cast. On the southern side the cliffs areimmit of a steep hill, projecting ! almost precipitous, overhanging a deep gorge; butntain behind it. The lower town : on the northern side the descent is less steep and-western slope of the hill, on either rugged. The summit of the hill is rather more thanreus a torrent from east to west. | 1000 feet in length, and around the edge the ruined• in form of an irregular triangle, walls of the Acropolis still exist in their entire cir-