OCR Output 256 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. 3. In the meantime Pompey sent Scaurus into Syria, whilehe was himself in Armenia, and making war with Tigranes:But when Scaurus was come to Damascus, and found that Lol-lius and Metellus had newly taken the city, he came himselfhastily into Judea. And when he was come thither, ambassa­dors came to him, both from Aristobulus and Hyrcanus, andboth desired he would assist them. And when both of thempromised to give him money, Aristobulus four hundred talents,and Hyrcanus no less, he accepted of Aristobulus' promise, forhe was rich and had a great soul, and desired to obtain nothingbut what was moderate; whereas the other was poor, and te­nacious, and made incredible promises in hopes of greater ad­vantages; for it was not the same thing to take a city, that wasexceeding strong and powerful, as it was to eject out of thecountry some fugitives, with a greater number of Nabateans,who were no very warlike people. He therefore made an agree­ment with Aristobulus, for the reasons before mentioned, andtook his money, and raised the siege, and ordered Aretas todepart, or else he should be declared an enemy to the Romans.So Scaurus returned to Damascus again; and Aristobulus, witha great army, made war with Aretas and Hyrcanus, and foughtthem at a place called Pajnjron, and beat them in the battle, andslew about six thousand of the enemy; with whom fell Phalionalso, the brother of Antipater. CHAP. III. How Aristobulus and Hyrcanus came to Pompey, in order to ar­gue isoho ought to have the kingdom: and how upon the flightof Aristobulus to the fortress Alexandrium, Pompey led hisarmy against him, and ordered him to deliver up the fortresses'whereof he was possessed. 4 1. A LITTLE afterward Pompey came to Damascus, andmarched over Celesyria, at which time their came ambassa­dors to him from all Syria, and Egypt, and out of Judeaalso, for Aristobulus had sent him a great present, which wasa * golden vine, of the value of five hundred talents. Now * Tliis golden vine or garden, seen by Strabo at Rome, lias its inscription here asif it were the gift of Alexander, tlie father of Aristobulus, and not of Aristobulushimself, to whom yet Josephus ascribes it; and in order to prove the truth of thatpart of his history, introduces this testimony of Strabo's; so that the ordinary copiesseem to be here either erroneous or defective, and the original reading seems to havebeen either jtrislobulvs, instead of Aiexander, with one Greek copy, or else jlristnbu-Itis the son of Alexander, with the Latin copies, which last seems to me the most pro­bable—For as to Archbishop Usher's conjectures, that Alexander made it, and de-diratud it to Cod in the temple, and that thence Aristolmlus took it, and sent it to