OCR Output C. III.] THE HIGH-PEIEST ANANUS. 97 less they could cut off the robbers that were in it. The zea­lots also thought that, unless they prevailed, there would beno punishment so bad but it would be inflicted on them. Sotheir conflicts were conducted by their passions, and at thefirst they only cast stones at each other in the city and beforethe temple, and threw their javelins at a distance ; but wheneither of them were too hard for the other, they made use oftheir swords; and great slaughter was made on both sides,and a great number were wounded. As for the dead bodiesof the people, their relations carried them out to their ownhouses; but when any of the zealots were wounded, he wentup into the temple, and defiled that sacred floor with his blood,insomuch that one may say it was their blood alone that pol­luted our sanctuary. Now, in these conflicts the robbersalways sallied out of the temple, and were too hard for theirenemies; but the populace grew very angry, and becamemore and more numerous, and reproached those that gaveback ; and those behind would not afford room to those thatwere going off, but forced them on again, till at length theymade their whole body to turn against their adversaries, andthe robbers could no longer oppose them, but were forcedgradually to retire into the temple: when Ananus' and hisparty fell into it at the same time together with them. Thishorribly affrighted the robbers, because it deprived them ofthe first court; so they fled into the inner court immediately,and shut the gates. Now Ananus did not think fit to makeany attack against the holy gates, although the other threwtheir stones and darts at them from above. He also deemedit unlawful to introduce the multitude into that court beforethey were purified; he therefore chose out of them all by lot 1 It is worth noticing here, that this Ananus, the best of the Jews at thistime, anil the high-priest, who was so very uneasy at the profanation of thoJewish courts of the temple by the zealots, did not, however, scruple the pro­fanation of the court of the Gentiles, as in our Savior's days it was very muchprofaned by the Jews, and made a market-place, nay, a den of thieves, with­out scruple. Matt. xxi. 12, 13; Mark xi. 15-17. Accordingly, Josephushimself, when he spcaks of the two inner courts, calls them both aym, or holyplaces, but, so far as I remember, he never gives that character of the courtof the Gentiles. See I!, v. ch. ix. sect. 2. IV. — 9