OCR Output &S AXTIQJJITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVIII. sent down great showers of rain, contrary to human expectation ;for that day was a clear day, and gave no sign, by the appearanceof the sky, of any rain ; nay, the whole year had been subject toa great drought, and made men despair of any water from above,even when at any time they saw the heavens over-cast withclouds ; insomuch, that when such a great quantity of rain came,and that in an unusal manner, and without any other expectation'of it, the Jews hoped that Petronius would by no means fail inhis petition for them. But as to Petronius, he was mightily sur­prised when he perceived that God evidently took care of theJews, and gave very plain signs of his appearance*, and this tosuch a degree, that those that were in earnest much inclined tothe contrary, had no power left to contradict it. This was alsoamong those other particulars which he wrote to Caius, whichall tended to dissuade him, and by all means to entreat him not tomake so many ten thousands of these men go distracted ; whomif he should slay, (for without war they would by no means suf­fer the laws of their worship to be set aside), he would lose therevenue they paid him, and would be publicly cursed by themfor all future ages. Moreover, that God, who was their gover­nor, had shewed his power most evidently on their account, andthat such a power of his as left no room for doubt about it.—•And this was the business that Petronius was now engaged in. 1. But king Agrippa, who now lived at Rome, was more andmore in the favour of Caius ; and when he had once made hima supper, and was careful to exceed all other, both in expeneesand in such preparations as might contribute most to his pleasure ;nay, it was so far from the ability of others, that Caius himselfcould never equal, much less exceed it, (such care had he takenbeforehand to exceed all men, and particularly to make all agree­able to Ctesar) : hereupon Caius admired his understanding and,magnificence, that he should force himself to do all to please him,even beyond such expenees as he could bear, and was desirousnot to be behind Agrippa in that generosity, which he exertedin order to please him. So Caius, when he had drank wineplentifully, and was merrier than ordinary, said thus during thefeast, when Agrippa had drunk to him : " I knew before now" f how great a respect thou hast had for me, and how great" kindness thou hast shewed me, though with those hazards to" thyself, which thou underwentest under Tiberius on that a.c-" count; nor hast thou omitted any thing to shew thy good-will" towards us, even beyond thy ability ; whence it would be a" base thing for me to be conquered by thy affection. I am " therefore * See the preceding note. t This behaviour of Caius to Agrippa, is very like that of Herod Antipas, hisuncle, to Herod i its, Agrippu's sister, about John the Baptist, Matt. ziv. 6—n.