OCR Output SPARTA. 1027 SPARTA. • . V ted for a citmdel than any other, as being from the rest, and at one angle of thetat Cartioi supposes it to have stood upon thef&e theatre, as being the only one with a suf-l't larga surface on tiif summit to contain thenu buildings which stood upon the Acropolis.ktltroptmaa appears the more probable; and inil. cleared from its surrounding rubbish,mttd witb a wall, and crowned with buildings,I iuv» presented a much more striking appear-iiaa it does it present. ttlwt building on the Acropolis was the tem-f Athens Chalcioecus, the tutelary goddess ofty It tu said to liave been begun by Tyn-i, but was long afterwards completed bylu, vbo wu celebrated a* an architect, sta­ted poet. He caused the whole building to■ -i with plates of bronze or brass, whencennpit wu tailed the Brazen House, and the ■ received the surname of Chalcioecus. Onroni* plates there were represented in relieftw.n of Hercules, the exploits of the Dioscuri,*i'o* releasing his mother from her chains,iitnphs arming Per-eus for his expeditiont Medusa, the birth of Athena, and Amphi-ad Poseidon. Gitiadas also made a brazen rf the goddess. (Paus. iii. 17. §§ 2, 3.)wti House stood in a sacred enclosure ofnta extent, surrounded by a stoa or colon->ad containing several sanctuaries. There •eparata temple of Athena Ergano. Nearttiwrn stoa was a temple of Zeus Cosmetas,*we it the tomb of Tyndareus; the western•uined two eagles, bearing two victories, de- • br Lvaander in commemoration of his vie­wer the Athenians. To the left of thei thaw wu a temple of the Muses; behind it of Ares Areia, with very ancient wooden. and U> its right a very ancient statue of ZeusK by Learchus of Rhcgium, parts of whicha*ened together with" nails. Here also wasa booth or tent, which Curtius con- ■ to hive been the otrnna ov f**ya, % t^v rovThnc. i 134), where Pausanias took refugeicvfeant. Near the altar of the Brazen(tool two statues of Pausar.ias, and alsoV Aphrodite Ambologe"ra (delaying old age),the brothers Sleep and Death. The statuesBuuaa were set up by order of the Delphian -ipiate his being; starved to death within*d precinct*. (Paus. iii. 17. § 2—18. § I.)ftg-wa wan a spacious place, surrounded, likemarket-places, with colonnades, from■t -treeta issued to the different quarters ofHere were the public buildings of theH«,— the council-house of the Gerusia andnd the offices of the Kphori, Nomophylaces,■*s. The moat splendid building was the Per-i, which had been frequently repaired and, sad was still perfect when Pausaniasthe city. The Agora contained statues of«^ar and Augustus: in the latter was ataliie of the prophet Agias. There was a■* l Chorus, marked off from the rest of the•cauie the Spartan youths here danced inof Apollo st the festival of the Gymno-Thts place was adorned with statues of thedertifS, Apollo, Artemis, and Leto; and*m temples of Karth, of Zeus Agoraeus, nfea, of Apollo, of Poseidon Asplmleius,In the Agora was a colossal statue representing the people of Sparta, and a temple ofthe Moerae or Fates, near which was the tomb ofOrestes, whose bones had been brought from Tegeato Sparta in accordance with the well-known tale inHerodotus. Near the tomb of Orestes was thestatue of king Polydorus, whose effigy was usedas the seal of the state. Here, also, was a HermesAgoraeus bearing Dionysus as a child, and the oldEphoreia, where the Ephorfl originally administeredjustice, in which were the tombs of Kpimenides theCretan and of Aphareus the Aeolian king. (Paus.iii. 11. §§ 2—11.) The Agora was near the Acropolis. Lycnrgus,it ts said, when attacked by his opponents, fled forrefuge from the Agora to the Acropolis; but wasovertaken by a fiery youth, who struck out one ofhis eyes. At the spot where he was wounded, Ly-curgus founded a temple of Optiletis* or Ophthal­mitis, which must have stood immediately above theAgora. Plutarch says that it lay within thotcmenos of the Brazen House; and Pausanias men­tions it, in descending from the Acropolis, on theway to the so-called Alpium, beyond which was atemple of Ammon, and probably also a temple ofArtemis Cnagia. (Pint. Lye 11; Apophth. Lac,p. 227, b.; Paus. iii. 18. § 2.) The Agora may bej laced in the great hollow east of the Acropolis (Map,2). Its position is most clearly marked by Pausanias,who, going westwards from the Agora, arrived im­mediately st the theatre, after passing only thetomb of Brasidas (iii. 14. § 1). The site of thetheatre, which he describes as a magnificent build­ing of white marble, has been already described. The principal street, leading out of the Agora, wasnamed Aphctais ('A^erafi), the Corso of Sjarta(Map. dd). It ran towards the southern wall, throughthe most level part of the city, and was bordered bya succession of remarkable monuments. First rarnethe house of king Polydorus, named Booneta (Bow-j ->;r;t). because the state purchased it from hiswidow for some oxen. Next came the office of theBidiaei, who originally had the inspection of therace-course; and opposite was the temple of AthenaCeleutheia, with a statue of the goddess dedicatedby Ulysses, who erected three statues of Celeutheiain different places. Lower down the Aphetais oc­curred the heroa of lope, Ampliiara:is, and Lelex,—the sanctuary of Poseidon Taenarius,— a statue ofAthena, dedicated by the Tarentini, — the placecalled Hellenium, so called because the Greeksare said to have held counsel there either before thePersian or the Trojan wars,—the tomb of Talthy-bius, — an altar of Apollo AcreiUs,—a place sacredto the earth named Gaseptum,—a statue of ApolloMaleates, — and close to the city walls the temple- ofDfctynna, and the royal sepulchres of the Eurypon-tidae. Pausanias then returns to the Hellenium,probably to the other side of the Aphetais, where hementions a sanctuary of Arsinoe. the sister of thowives of Castor and Pollux; then a temple ofArtemis near the so-called Phruria (ipovpta), whichwere perhaps the temporary fortifications thrown upbefore the completion of the city walls; next thetombs of the lamidae, the Eleian prophets,— sanc­tuaries of Maro and Alpheius, who fell at Ther­mopylae,—the temple of Zeus Tror«eus, built by theDorians after conquering the Achaean inhabitants ofLaconia, and especially the Amyclaei,—the temple * So called, because ottIAoi was the I-accdaemo-nian form for wt>0aA/«f, Pint 11. r 3 u 2