OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRL i to the number of about eighty thousand. But as neither reason*nor enthusiasm could have guided so tumultuary- an aflembly, itwas reduced, by successive operations, to forty thousand;, to fourthousand, to four hundred, to forty, and at last to seven Magi,the most respected for their learning and piety. One of these,Erdaviraph, a young but holy prelate, received from the handsof his brethren, three cups of soporiferous wine. He drank themoff, and instantly fell into a long and profound sleep. As soonas he waked, he related to the king and to the believing multi­tude, his journey to Heaven, and his intimate conferences with theDeity. Every doubt was silenced by this supernatural evidence»and the articles of the faith of Zoroaster were fixed with equalauthority and precision 9. A short delineation of that celebratedsystem will be found useful, not only to display the character of thePersian nation, but to illustrate many of their most important trans­actions, both in peace and war, with the Roman empire io. The ereat and fundamental article of the system, was the ce- P,ersian **■lebrated doctrine of the two principles, a bold and injudicious principles,attempt of Eastern philosophy to reconcile the existence of moraland physical evil, with the attributes of a beneficent Creator andgovernor of the world. The first and original Being, in whom, orby whom, the universe exists, is denominated in the writingsof Zoroaster, Time without bounds; but it must be confessed, thatthis infinite substance seems rather a metaphysical abstraction of themind, than a real object endowed with self-consciousness, or possessedof moral perfections. From either the blind, or the intelligentoperation of this infinite Time, which bears but too near an affinitywith the chaos of the Greeks, the two secondary but active prin­ciples of the universe, were from all eternity produced, Ormusdand Ahriman, each of them possessed of the powers of creation, buteach disposed, by his invariable nature, to exercise them with dif­ferent designs. The principle of good is eternally absorbed in light; D d z the