OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 49 he seduced the affections of Julia, even in the lifetimeof her husband Agrippa. Nor did his passions stopthere: when she was afterwards married to Tiberius,he was still a persevering adulterer, and by secret ar­tifices poisoned the mind of the wife against her hus­band. The letter to Augustus, in which she treatedthe character of Tiberius with contempt, was general­ly thought to be his composition. For these offences hewas banished toCercina,an island on the coast of Afri­ca, where he passed fourteen years in exile. Soldiersat length were sent to put an end to his days. Theassassins found him on the point of a prominent neckof land, with a countenance fixed in sorrow and de­spair. As soon as the ruffians approached, he desireda short delay, that he might write the sentiments of adying man to his wife Alliaria. Having despatchedthat business, he presented his neck to the murderers'stroke: in his last moments worthy of the Sempro-nian name. His life was a series of degenerate actions.The assassins, according to some historians, were nothired at Rome, but sent from Africa by the proconsulLucius Asprenas, at the instigation of Tiberius, whohoped to throw from himself the load of guilt, and fixit on his tools of power. The artifice did not suc­ceed. LIV. In the course of this year was formed a newinstitution of religious rites. In honour of Augustusa, list of priests was added to the sacerdotal college,in imitation of the order founded in ancient timesby Titus Tatius, to perpetuate the religious ceremo­nies of the Sabines. To create this new sodality, thenames of the most eminent citizens, to the number ofone-and-twenty, were drawn by lot; and Tiberiu?,Drusus, Claudius, and Germanicus were added. Ithappened, however, that the games performed thisyear in honour of Augustus, were disturbed by vio­lent factions among the players. In compliance withthe wishes of Mecenas, that passionate admirer of.Bathyllus the comedian, Augustus had always fa­voured the exhibition of pantomimes. He had himselfa taste for those amusements; and by mixing with thediversions of the multitude, he thought he showed aVol. I.—E