OCR Output B.VlI. THE PELOPONNESlAN WAR; 277 War: And in the preceding skirmishes, which had hap*pened very frequently during the march, not a fewhad been slain. Yet, notwithstanding all this, manymade their escape; some from the scenes of action, andothers from their prisons, from whence they afterwardsgained an opportunity to run away. These repaired toCatana, as a safe resort. And now the Syracusans and allies in one grand col­lective body, having amassed together as large a num*ber of prisoners as they possibly could> and all the spoils*returned in triumph to Syracuse. The bulk of pri­soners, whether of the Athenians or their confederates*whom they had taken, they thrust down into the quar­ries, concluding that from such a confinement theycould not possibly make escapes; but Nicias and De*mosthenes, in spite of all the remonstrances of Gylip-pus, they butchered: For Gylippus imagined, that thefinishing of this war would invest himself with pre­eminent degrees of glory, if, besides the rest of his at-chievements, he could carry home to the Lacedæmo­nians the generals of the enemy. It had, farther, lahappened, that one of these, that is, Demosthenes*was regarded as their most inveterate enemy, becauseof his exploits against them in the island Sphacteria andPylus; and the other (Nicias) as their most sincerewell-wisher, from his behaviour on those very inci­dents. For Nicias had strenuously exerted himself inbehalf of those Lacedæmonians who were made pri­soners in the island. It was he who prevailed with theAthenians to sign the treaty, in pursuance of which theywere released. For such services done them, the Lace­dæmonians had a kindness for him; and it had beenchiefly owing to his assurance of this that he surren­dered himself prisoner to Gylippus. But a party of theSyracusans, as was generally reported, fearful, becausethey had kept up a correspondence with him, lest, ifput to the torture, he might now, amidst the generalprosperity, involve them in trouble j others also, and* T 3 hot