OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 103 relieving Saticula, sat themselves down before Plistia,which was in alliance with the Romans, that they mightif possible retort equal vexation on their enemy. 22. The year coming to a conclusion, the war wasthenceforward conducted by a dictator, Quintus Fa-bius. [A.U. C. 439. B.C. 313.] The new consuls,Lucius Papirius Cursor and Quiutus Publilius Philo,both a fourth time, as the former had done, remainedat Rome. Fabius came with a reinforcement to Sati­cula, to receive the command of the army from jEmi-lius. The Samnites had not continued before Plistia ;but having sent for a new supply of men from home,and relying on their numbers, had encamped in thesame spot as before; and, by provoking the Romans 'to battle, endeavored to divert them from the siege.The dictator, so much the more intently, pushed for­ward his operations against the fortifications of theenemy; considering the taking of the city as the onlyobject of the war, and showing an indifference withrespect to the Samnites, except that he placed guardsin proper places to prevent any attempt on his camp.This encouraged the Samnites, so that they rode up tothe rampart, and allowed him no quiet. These nowcoming up close to the gates of the camp, QuintusAulius Cerretanus, master of the horse, without con­sulting the dictator, sallied out furiously at the headof all the troops of cavalry, and drove them back. Inthis desultory kind of fight Fortune exerted her powerin such a manner as to occasion an extraordinary losson both sides, and the remarkable deaths of the com­manders themselves. First, the general of the Sam­nites, filled with indignation at being repulsed, andcompelled to fly from a place to which he had advancedwith such confidence, prevailed on his horsemen, byintreaties and exhortations, to renew the battle. Ashe was easily distinguished among the horsemen, whilehe urged on the fight, the Roman master of the horsegalloped up against him in such a furious career that,with one stroke of his spear, he tumbled him lifelessfrom his horse. The multitude however were not, as