OCR Output CHAP. XLVIII. 163 t orders were dispatched into the provinces for the reco­very of their fugitive; and his wife, on the suspicion of apious act, was basely imprisoned in the same tower. Atthe dead of night she beheld a spectre: she recognisedher husband; they shared their provisions; and a sonwas thefruitof these stolen interviews; which alleviatedthe tediousness of their confinement. In the custody ofa woman, the vigilance of the keepers was insensibly re­laxed; and the captive had accomplished his real escape,when he was discovered, brought back to Constanti­nople, and loaded with a double chain. At length hefound the moment and the means of his deliverance. Aboy. his domestic servant, intoxicated the guards, andobtained in wax the impression of the keys. By the di­ligence of his friends, a similar key, with a bundle ofropes, was introduced into the prison, in the bottom ofa hogshead. Andronicus employed, with industry andcourage, the instrument of his safety, unlocked the doors,descended from the tower, concealed himself all dayamong the bushes, and scaled in the night the garden-wall of the palace. A boat was stationed for his recep­tion; he visited his own house, embraced his children,cast away his chain, mounted a fleet horse, and directedhis rapid course towards the banks of the Danube. AtAnchialus in Thrace, an intrepid friend supplied him withhorses and money: he passed the river, traversed withspeed the desert of Moldavia and the Carpathian hills,and had almost reached the town of Halicz, in the PolishRussia, when he was intercepted by a party of Wala-chians, who resolved to convey their important captiveto Constantinople. His presence of mind again extricatedhim from this danger. Under the pretence of sickness,he dismounted in the night, and was allowed to stepaside from the troop: he planted in the ground his longstaff; clothed it with his cap and upper garment; and,stealing into the wood, left a phantom to amuse, forsome time, the eyes of the Wakchians. From Halicz M 2