OCR Output i46 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. B.Vl timely revenge upon him, by whom they were aggrieved,and on whole account they had en.barked into so dan­gerous an affair. In this hurry of thought they rushedback into the city, and met with Hipparchus at theplace called Leocorium; where, without any regard to.their own safety, they made an instant assault upon him.And thus, in all the fury of passion, one actuated byjealousy, and the other by resentment, they woundedand they kill him. As the people immediately ran to­gether, Aristogiton by favour of the concourse escapesfor the present, but, being afterwards seized, was un­mercifully treated: But Harmodius is instantly stain onthe spot. The news of this assassination being carried to Hippi-as at the Ceramicus, he moved off immediately; not tothe scene of action, but towards the armed accomplicesin the procession, before they couid be informed of thefact, as they were stationed at a distance. He artfullysuppressed on his countenance all fense of the calamity;and, pointing to a certain spot, commanded them aloudto throw down their arms and file off thither. Thiscommand they obeyed, expecting he had some­thing to communicate to them. But Hippias, ad­dressing himself to his guards, orders them to takeaway those arms. He then picked out man by man,from amongst them, such as he designed "to put to thequestion, and all upon whom a dagger was found: For,by ancient custom, they were to make the processionwith a spear and a shield. In this manner truly, from the anguish *6f irritatedlove, this conspiracy took its rise, and this desperate attempt l • * And ;et so violently were tyrants detested at Athens, that the memory of Har­modius and Aristogiton was ever after honoured there, as martyrs for liberty andfirst authors of the ruin of tyrants. Their praises were publicly fung at the greatPanatbcnaa. No slave was ever called by their names. Praxiteles was employedto cast their statuei, which were afterwards set up in the forum: Xeries indeedCarried themaway into Persia, but Alexander afterwards scot them back to Athens. flktmrtt