OCR Output 102 . THE DECLINE AND FALL to annoy the feet of the horses; and as new gates could not suddenly be procured,the entrance was guarded by a Spartan rampart of his bravest soldiers. Atthe expiration of twenty-five days, Totila returned by hasty marches from Apu­lia, to avenge the injury and disgrace. Belisarius expected his approach. TheGoths were thrice repulsed in three general assaults; they lost the flower of theirtroops; the royal standard had almost fallen into the hands of the enemy, andthe Fame of Totila sunk, as it had risen, with the fortune of his arms. \Vhateverskill and courage could achieve, had been performed by the Roman general; itremained only, that Justinian should terminate, by a strong and seasonable effort,the war which he had ambitiously undertaken. The indolence, perhaps the im­potence, of a prince who despised his enemies and envied his servants, protractedthe calamities of Italy. After a long silence, Belisarius was commanded to leavea sufficient garrison at Rome, and to transport himself into the province of Luca-nia, whose inhabitants, inflamed by catholic zeal, had cast away the yoke of their' Arian conquerors. In this ignoble warfare, the hero, invincible against the powerof the barbarians, was basely vanquished by the delay, the disobedience, and thecowardice of his own officers. He reposed in his winter-quarters of Crotona, inthe full assurance, that the two passes of the Lucanian hills were guarded by hiscavalry. They were betrayed by treachery or weakness; and the rapid marchof the Goths scarcely allowed time for the escape of Belisarius to the coast of Si­cily. At length a fleet and army were assembled for the relief of Ruscianum, orRossano,(l) a fortress sixty furlongs from the ruins of Sybaris, where the noblesof Lucania had taken refuge. In the first attempt, the Roman forces were dissi- Eated by a storm. In the second they approached the shore; but they saw theills covered with archers, the landing-place defended by a line of spears, and theking of the Goths impatient for battle. The conqueror of Italy retired with asigh, and continued to languish, inglorious and inactive, till Antonina, who hadbeen sent to Constantinople to solicit succours, obtained, after the death of the em­press, the permission of his return. The five last campaigns of Belisarius might abate the envy of his competitors,whose eyes had been dazzled and wounded by the blaze of his former glory. In­stead of delivering Italy from the Goths, he had wandered like a fugitive alongthe coast, without daring to march into the country, or to accept the bold and re­peated challenge of Totila. Yet in the judgment of the few who could discriminatecounsels from events, and compare the instruments with the execution, he ap­peared a more consummate master of the art of war, than in the season of hisprosperity, when he presented two captive kings before the throne of Justinian.The valour of Belisarius was not chilled by age; his prudence was matured byexperience, but the moral virtues of humanity and justice seem to have yielded-to the hard necessity of the times. The parsimony or poverty of the emperorcompelled him to deviate from the rule of conduct which had deserved the loveand confidence of the Italians. The war was maintained by the oppression of Ra­venna, Sicily, and all the faithful subjects of the empire; and the rigorous prosecutionof Herodian provoked that injured or guilty officer to deliver Spoleto into the handsof the enemy. The avarice of Antonina, which had been sometimes diverted bylove, now reigned without a rival in her breast. Belisarius himself had alwaysunderstood, that riches, in a corrupt age, are the support and ornament of per­sonal merit. And it cannot be presumed that he should stain his honour for thepublic service, without applying a part of the spoil to his private emolument.The hero had escaped the sword of the barbarians, but the dagger of conspiracy (2)awaited his return. In the midst of wealth aid honours, Ai iiaban, who had chas­tised the African tyrant, complained of the ingratitude of courts. He aspired to-Prsejecta, the emperor's niece, who wished to reward her deliverer; but the im­pediment of his previous marriage was asserted by the piety of Theodora. Thepride of royal descent was irritated by flattery; and the service in which he gloried,had proved him capable of bold and sanguinary deeds. The death of Justinian•was resolved, but the conspirators delayed the execution till they could surprise (Procopitu, Gothic, lib. iii. c. 24. Just. Lipsius, Poliercetw, lib. r. c. 3.} Tbe metaphor was borrowed from thetrihuli {land caltrops,) an herb with a prickly fruit, common in Italy (Martin, ad Virgil. Georgic. 1.153. vol. ii.p. 33.) (1) Ruscia, the novate Thurlorum, was transferred to the distance of sixty stadia to Ruscianum, Rossano,-an archbishopric without suffragans. The republic of Sybaris is now the estate of tbe duke of Corigliano,(Kiedesel, Travels into Magna Grtecia and Sicily, p. 166—171.) (2) This conspiracy is related by Procopius (Gothic, lib. iii. c. Si, 32.) with such freedom and candour, thatthe liberty of the Anecdotes gives him nothing to add.