OCR Output 340 THE LIFE OF FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS. dered a considerable number of my soldiers to scale them withladders, 1 became master of the greatest part of the city. Butsoon after, our unacquaintedness with the places forced us to re­tire, after we had killed twelve of the Roman footmen, and twohorsemen, and a few of the people of Sepphoris, with the lessof only a single man of our own. And when it afterward cameto a battle in the plain against the horsemen, and we had un­dergone the dangers of it courageously for a long time, we werebeaten ; for upon the Romans encompassing me about, my sol­diers were afraid, and fled back. There fell in that battle oneof those that had been intrusted to guard my body, his namewas Justus, who at this time had the same post with the king.At the same time also there came forces, both horsemen andfootmen, from the king, and Sylla their commander, who wasthe captain of this guard ; this Sylla pitched his camp at fivefurlongs distance from Julias, and set a guard upon the roads,both that which led to Cana, and that which led to the fortressGamala, that he might hinder their inhabitants from gettingprovisions out of Galilee. 72. As soon as I had gotten intelligence of this, I sent twothousand armed men, and a captain over them, whose name was"Jtremiab, who raised a bank a furlong off Julias, near to theriver Jordan, and did no more than skirmish with the enemy ;till I took three thousand soldiers myself, and came to them.But on the next day, when I had laid an ambush in a certain'valley, not far from the banks, I provoked those that belong­ed to the king to come to a battle, and gave orders to rny ownsoldiers to turn their backs upon them, until they should havedrawn the enemy away from their camp, and brought themout into the field, which was done accordingly ; for Sylla, sup­posing that our party did really run away, was ready to pursuethem, when our soldiers that lay in ambush took them on theirbacks, and put them all into great disorder. I also imme­diately made a sudden turn with my own forces, and metthose of the king's party, and put them to flight. And I hadperformed great things that day, if a certain fate had notbeen my hindrance ; for the horse on which I rode, andupon whose back 1 fought, fell into a quagmire, and threwme on the ground, and I was bruised on my wrist, and carriedinto a village named Cepharnome, or Capernaum. When mysoldiers heard of this, they were afraid I had been worse hurtthan I was : and so they did not go on with their pursuit anyfurther, but returned in very great concern for me. I there­fore sent for the physicians, and while 1 was under their hand,