OCR Output 88 [book III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. saw it; and thunder, with its thunderbolts,were sent down, and declared God to bethere present in a gracious way to such asMoses desired he should be gracious. Nowas to these matters, every one of my readersmay think as he pleases: but I am under thenecessity of relating this history as it is de­scribed in the sacred books. This sight, andthe amazing sound that came to their ears,disturbed the Hebrews to a prodigious de­gree; for they were not such as they wereaccustomed to. And then the rumour thatwas spread abroad how God frequented thatmountain, greatly astonished their minds; sothey sorrowfully remained within their tents,as both supposing Moses to be destroyed bythe Divine wrath, and expecting the like de­struction for themselves. While they were under these apprehen­sions, Moses appeared joyful and greatly ex­alted. When they saw him they were freedfrom their fear, and admitted more comfort­able hopes as to what was to come. The airalso was become clear and pure of its formerdisorders, upon the appearance of Moses;whereupon he called the people together, inorder to their hearing what God would sayto them. And when they were assembled, hestood on an eminence, whence they might allhear him, and said, "God has received megraciously, O Hebrews, as he has formerlydone; and has suggested a happy method ofliving for you, and an order of political go­vernment, and is now present in the camp. Itherefore charge you for his sake, and thesake of his works, and what we have done byhis means, that you do not put a low valueon what I am going to say, because the com­mands have been given by me; nor becauseit is the tongue of a man that delivers themto you. But if you have a due regard to thegreat importance of the things themselves,you will understand the greatness of Himwhose institutions they are; and who has notdisdained to communicate them to me for our Hvixa |8Xs ' jj£ ftopprjs a«p EuiEpov tfupAajurofASvov tfxip7ij<5ov oXx xa7a [3iv9ea KoifjjtKXudi tfupos <pwvi]v common advantage. For it is not to be sup­posed that the author of these institutions isbarely Moses, the son of Amram and Joche-bed, but he who obliged the Nile to runbloody for your sakes, and tamed the haugh­tiness of the Egyptians, by various sorts ofjudgments; he who provided a way throughthe sea for us; he who contrived a method ofsending us food from heaven, when we weredistressed for want of it; he who made thewater to issue out of a rock, when we hadvery little of it before; he, by whose meansAdam was made to partake of the fruits ofthe land, and of the sea; he, by whose meansNoah escaped the deluge; he, by whosemeans our forefather Abraham, of a wander­ing pilgrim was made the heir of the land ofCanaan; he, by whose means Jacob wasadorned with twelve virtuous sons; he, bywhose means Joseph became a potent lordover the Egyptians; he it is who conveys theseinstructions to you by me as his interpreter.And let them be to you venerable, and con­tended for more earnestly by you than yourown wives and children; for if you will followthem you will lead a happy life, you will en­joy the land fruitful, the sea calm, and thefruit of the womb complete, as nature re­quires; you will also be terrible to your ene­mies; for I have been admitted into the pre­sence of God, and been made a hearer of hisincorruptible voice; so great is his concernfor the welfare of your nation." When he had said this, he brought thepeople, with their wives and children, so nearthe mountain, that they might hear God him­self speaking to them about the preceptswhich they were to practise; that the energyof what should be spoken might not be hurtby its utterance, by that tongue of a manwhich could but imperfectly deliver it to theirunderstanding. And they all heard a voicethat came from above; insomuch that noneof those words escaped them, which Moseswrote in two tables; and though it is not* ^s say the Chaldaic oracles; and as for earthquakes, orshaking of mountains, this is no more than what all nationssuppose have ever come to pass upon God's manifestinghimself at any time: for it is not only the Psalmist whotells us, that the earth shook, and the heaven dropped, atthe presence of God; but in the description which Virgil gives us of the approach of Phoebus, he does in a mannertranslate the words of Moses: Tremere omnia visa repente, Luminaque, laurusque Dei: totusque moveriMons circum, et mugire adytis cortina reelusis Vide Nicholl's Conference, part 2. B. * Of this and another superstitious notion of the Phari­sees, which Josephus complied with, see note on II. 12.