OCR Output TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V. by an oath, and marched with their armies to Veii, whenleast expected. They happened to attack that quarter ofthe camp where Mauius Sergius commanded, and caus­ed the greatest terror and dismay; for the Romans werepersuaded that all'Etruria was up in arms, and bad al­ready arrived in prodigious numbers. The same opinionprevailed among the besieged in the city, and encourag­ed them to make a sally.—Thus was the Roman campassaulted on both sides, and whilst they ran up and dovru,charging here and there, they could neither keep backthe Vi-jeute,« within their fortifications, nor defend theirown lines, so as to repel the enemy on the outside. The only resource they had, was in the hopes of as--sistance from the greater camp, as some of the legionsmight make head against the Capenates and Fah'sci,.whilst others withstood ihe sallies of the townsmen; butVirgimus, between whom and Sergius there was a secretmisunderstanding, had the command of that camp. Whenhe was told, that most part of their redoubts were at­tacked, their lines broke through, and the enemy ad­vancing on both sides, he kept his troops under arrni,saying at the same time, that if there was any need ofassistance, his colleague would certainly .send him word. The arrogance of the one, was equalled by the obsti­nacy of the other, who scorned to ask-assistance from onehe hated, and chose rather to be defeated by the enemy,than be obliged to his fellow eitizeji for victory. For aconsiderable time, the troops, thus charged on both sides,suffered exceedingly; at last having abandoned theirworks, a very few escaped to the grand camp, the great­est part, with Sergius himself, having made the best oftheir way to Rome. As he laid the whole blame on hwcolleague, Virginius was sent for, and the commandgiven to their lieutenants during their absence. Theaffair was laid before the senate, when the two colleaguesran into invectives against each other. Few of the >«-:!i-tors consulted the public interest upon this occasion, batstood up in defence of one or other of the delinquents, asprivate friendship or faxour.determined them.