OCR Output AN. 1148.] 183 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. and together with it. However there werethose that said, they should not do so, norsuffer themselves to be deluded, as ascribingthe cause of their miseries to it; because itcould not have such power and force uponthem. For had God had such a regard to it,it would not have been delivered into thehands of men. So they exhorted them to bequiet, and to bear what had befallen them,and to suppose there was no other cause of itbut nature, which at certain revolutions oftime produces such mutations in the bodies ofmen, in the earth, in plants, and in all thingsthat grow out of the earth. But the counselthat prevailed over those already described,was that of certain men, who were believedto have distinguished themselves in formertimes fop their understanding and prudence,and who in their present circumstancesseemed above all the rest to speak properly.These men said, it was not right either tosend the ark away, or to retain it; but todedicate five golden images, one for everycity, as a thank-offering to God, on accountof his having taken care of their preservation,and having kept them alive when their liveswere likely to be taken away by such distem­pers as they were not able to bear up against.They also would have them make five golden*mice, like those that had devoured and de­stroyed their country; to put them in a bag,and lay them upon the ark, to make a newcart also for it, and to yoke milchf kine to it;but to shut up their calves, and keep themfrom them, lest by following after them, theyshould prove a hindrance to their dams; andthat the dams might return the faster, out of adesire of those calves; then to drive thesemilch kine that carried the ark, and to leaveit in a place where three ways meet, and toleave the kine to go along which of those ways they pleased; that in case they went the wayto the Hebrews, and ascended to theircountry, they should suppose that the arkwas the cause of their misfortunes; but ifthey turned into another road, they shouldpursue after it, and conclude that it had nosuch force. So they determined that these men spakewell, and they immediately confirmed theiropinion by doing accordingly. And whenthey had done as hath been already de­scribed, they brought the cart to a placewhere three ways met, and left it there. Butthe kine went the right way, as if some per­sons had driven them, while the rulers of thePhilistines followed, as desirous to knowwhere they would stand still, and whitherthey would go. Now there was a certainvillage of the tribe of Judah, called Bethshe-mesh, and to that village did the kine go; andthough there was a great and good plain be­fore them to proceed in, they w ent no farther,but stopped the cart there. This was a joyfulsight to those of that village, and they werevery glad. For it being then summer time,and all the inhabitants being in their fields,gathering in their fruits, they left off the la­bours of their hands for joy, as soon as theysaw the ark, and ran to the cart; and takingthe ark down, and the vessel that had theimages in it, and the mice, they set them upona certain rock, which was in the plain. Andwhen they had offered a splendid sacrifice toGod, and feasted, they offered the cart andthe kine as a burnt-offering.;}: And when thelords of the Philistines saw this they returnedback. But now it was that the wrath of God over­ took them, and struck | seventy persons dead of the village of Bethshemesh; who not beingpriests, and so not worthy to touch the ark, * Spanheim informs us, that upon the coins of Tenedos,and those of other cities, a field mouse is engraven;together with Apollo Sminthous, or Apollo the driveraway of field mice; on account of his being supposed tohave freed certain tracts of ground from those mice.Which coins shew how great a judgment such mice havesometimes been; and how the deliverance from them wasthen esteemed the effect of a divine power. Which ob­servations arc highly suitable to this history. f This device of the Philistines, of having a yoke of kineto draw the cart, into which they put the ark of the He­brews, is greatly illustrated by Sanchoniatho's account,under his ninth generation, that Agrouerus, or Agrotes, the husbandman, had a much worshipped statue, and atemple, carried about with one or more yoke of oxen orkine in Phoenicia; in the neighbourhood of these Philis­tines. See Cumberland's Sanchoniatho, p. 27, and 247,and Essay on the Old Test. Append, p. 172. % 1 Sam. vi. 14. II These 70 men, being not so much as Levites, touchedthe ark in a rash or profane manner; and were slain bythe hand of God for that rashness and profaneness, ac­cording to the divine threatenings, Numb. iv. 15, 20 ; buthow our other copies come to add such an incredible num­ber, 50,000, in, this one town, or small city, 1 know not.See Dr. Wall's critical notes on 1 Sam. vi. 10.