OCR Output C. V.] II1E IS M P L E. 181 the outside adorned with any work of the painter or engraver.The cloisters [of the outmost court] were in breadth thirtycubits, while the entire compass of it was by measure six fur­longs, including the tower of Antonia; those entire courtsthat were exposed to the air were laid with stones of all sorts.When you go through these [first] cloisters unto the second[court of the] temple, there was a partition, made of stone allround, whose height was three cubits; its construction wasvery elegant; upon it stood pillars, at equal distances fromone another, declaring the law of purity, some in Greek andsome in Roman letters, that no foreigner should go withinthat sanctuary ; for that second [court of the] temple wascalled the Sanctuary, and was ascended to by fourteen stepsfrom the first court. This court was four-square, and had awall about it peculiar to itself; the height of its buildings,although it were ' on the outside forty cubits, was hidden bythe steps, and on the inside that height was but twenty-fivecubits , for it being built over against a higher part of the hillwith steps, it was no farther to be entirely discerned within,being covered by the hill itself. Beyond these fourteen stepsthere was the distance of ten cubits: this was all plain;whence there were other steps, each of five cubits a-piece, thatled to the gates, which gates on the north and south sideswere eight, on each of those sides four, and of necessity twoon the east. For since there was a partition built for thewomen on that side, as the proper place wherein they were toworship, there was a necessity of a second gate for them ; this 1 What Josephus seems here to mean is this, that these pillars supportingthe cloisters in the second court, had their foundations or lowest parts asdeep as the floor of the first or lowest court, but that so far of those lowestparts as were equal to the elevation of the upper floor above the lowest, were,and must be, hidden on the inside by the ground or rock itself, on which thatupper court was built: so that forty cubits visible below were reduced totwenty-five visiblo above, and implies the difference of their heights to befifteen cubits. The main difficulty lies here, how fourteen or fifteen stepsshould give an ascent of fifteen cubits, half a cubit seeming sufficient for asingle step. Possibly there were fourteen or fifteen steps at the partitionwall, and fourteen or fifteen more thence into the court itself, which wouldbring the whole near to the just proportion. Sec sect. 3, infra. But I deter­mine nothing. rv\ —16