OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 25 and of the royal family, she endeavoured that none of thehouse of David might be left alive, but that the whole familymight be exterminated, that no king might arise out of it after­ward; and, as she thought, she had actually done it; but one ofAhaziah's sons was preserved, who escaped death after the man­ner following: Ahaziah had a sister by the same father, whosename was Jehosheba, and she was married to the high priest Je-hoiada. She went into the king's palace, and found Jehoash, forthat was the little child's name, who was not above a year old,among those that were slain, but concealed with his nurse; soshe took him with her into a secret bed-chamber, and shut himup there, and she and her husband Jehoiada brought him upprivately in the temple six years, during which time Athaliahreigned over Jerusalem and the two tribes. 2. Now on the seventh year, Jehoiada communicated thematter to certain of the captains of hundreds, five in number,and persuaded them to be assisting to what attempts he wasmaking against Athaliah, and to join with him in asserting thekingdom to the child. He also received such oaths from them asare proper to secure those that assist one another from the fearof discovery; and he was then of good hope that they shoulddepose Athaliah. Now those men whom Jehoiada the priest hadtaken to be his partners, went into all the country, and gatheredtogether the priests and the Levites, and the heads of the tribesout of it, and came and brought them to Jerusalem to the highpriest. So he demanded the security of an oath of them, to keepprivate whatsoever he should discover to them, which requiredboth their silence and their assistance. So when they had takenthe oath, and had thereby made it safe for him to speak, he pro­duced the child that he had brought up of the family of David,and said to them, "This is your king, of that house which you"know God hath foretold should reign over you for all time to"come: I exhort you therefore that one third part of you"guard him in the temple, and that a fourth part keep watch"at all the gates of the temple, and that the next part of you"keep guard at the gate which opens and leads to the king's"palace, and let the rest of the multitude be unarmed in the"temple, and let no armed person go into the temple, but the"priest only. He also gave them this order besides, that a'' part of the priests and the Levites should be about the king"himself, and be a guard to him, with their drawn swords,"and to kill that man immediately, whoever he be, that should"be so bold as to enter armed into the temple; and bid them"be afraid of nobody, but persevere in guarding the king."So these men obeyed what the high priest advised them to, anddeclared the reality of their resolution by their actions. Jehoiada