OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 147 exacted, unless the offender can redeem his pardon by a fine of three hundredpounds of copper. The decemvirs distributed with much liberality the slighterchastisements of flagellation and servitude; and nine crimes of a very different com­plexion are adjudged worthy of death. 1. Any act of (reason against the state,.orof correspondence with the public enemy. The mode of execution was painfuland ignominious; the head of the degenerate Roman was shrouded in a veil, hishands were tied behind his back, and, after he had been scourged by the lictor, hewas suspended in the midst of the forum on a cross, or inauspicious tree. 2. Noc­turnal meetings in the city; whatever might be the pretence, of pleasure, or reli­gion, or the public good. 3. The murder of a citizen; for which the common feel­ings of mankind demanded the blood of the murderer. Poison is still, more odiousthan the sword or dagger; and we are surprised to discover, in two flagitious events,how early such subtle wickedness had infected the simplicity of the republic, andthe chaste virtues of the Roman matrons.(l) The parricide who violated the du­ties of nature and gratitude, was cast into the river or the sea, enclosed in a sack;and a cock, a viper, a dog, and a monkey, were successively added as the mostsuitable companions. (2) Italy produces no monkeys; but the want could never befelt, till the middle of the sixth century first revealed the guilt of a parricide. (3)4. The malice of an incendiary. After the previous ceremony of whipping, "hehimself was delivered to the flames; and in this example alone our reason is tempt­ed to approve the justice of retaliation. 5. Judicial fierjury. The corrupt andmalicious witness was thrown headlong from the Tarpeian rock to expiate hisfalsehood, which was rendered still more fatal by the severity of the penal laws,and the deficiency of written evidence. 6. The corruption of a judge, who accept­ed bribes, to pronounce an iniquitous sentence. 7. Libels and satires, whose rudestrains sometimes disturbed the peace of an illiterate city. The author was beatenwith clubs, a worthy chastisement, but it is not certain that he was left to expireunder the blows of the executioner. (4) 8. The nocturnal mischief of damagingor destroying a neighbour's corn. The criminal was suspended as a grateful vic­tor to Ceres. But the Sylvan deities were less implacable, and the extirpation ofa more valuable tree was compensated by the moderate fine of twenty-five poundsof copper. 9. Magical incantations; which had power, in the opinion of the Latinshepherds, to exhaust the strength of an enemy, to extinguish his life, and removefrom their seats his deep-rooted plantations. The cruelty of the twelve tablesagainst insolvent debtors still remains to be told; and I shall dare to prefer the lite­ral sense of antiquity, to the specious refinements of modern criticism. (5) Afterthe judicial prool or confession of the debt, thirty days of grace were allowed be­fore a Roman was delivered into the power of his fellow-citizens. In this privateprison, twelve ounces of rice was his daily food; he might be bound with a chainof fifteen pounds weight; and his misery was thrice exposed in the market-place,to solicit the compassion of his friends and countrymen. At the expiration of six­ty days, the debt was discharged by the loss of liberty or life; the insolvent debtorwas either put to death, or sold in foreign slavery beyond the Tiber: but if severalcreditors were alike obstinate and unrelenting, they might legally dismember hisbody, and satiate their revenge by his horrid partition. The advocates for thissavage law have insisted, that it must strongly operate in deterring idleness andfraud from contracting debts which they are unable to discharge; but experiencewould dissipate this salutary terror, by proving, that no creditor could be found to (1) Livy mentions two remarkable and flagitious eras, of three thousand persons accused, and of onehundred and ninety noble matrons convicted of the crime of poisoning "(40.43. 8. 18.) Mr. Hume discrimi­nates the ages of public and private virtue (Essays, vol. i. p. 22,23.) I would rather say that such ebullition*of mischief (as in I?'ranee in the year 1680.) are accidents and prodigies which leave no marks on the mannersof a nation. (2) The twelve tables and Cicero (pro Roscio Amerino, c. 25,26.) are content with the sack; Seneca (Ex­cerpt. Controvers. v. 4 ) adorns it with serpents; Juvenal pities the guiltless monkey (innoxia simia—Satir.xiii. 156.) Hadrian (apud Dositheuin Magistrum, lib. iii. c. 16. p. 874—876. with Schulting's Note,) Modesti-nus, (Pandect, xlviii. tit. 9. leg. ix.) Constantine (Cod. lib. ix. tit. 17,) and Justinian (Institut. lib. iv. tit. 18.0enumerate all the companions of the parricide. But this fanciful expcutiun was simplified in practice. Hodietamen vivi exurumur vel ad bestias danttir (Paul. Sentent. Recept. lib. v. tit. 24. p. 512. edit. Schulling.) (3) The first parricide at Rome was I.. Ostius, after the second Punic war, (Plutarch in Romulo, torn. i. p.57.) During the Cimbric, P. Malleolus was frnilty of the first matricide, (Lis*. Epitom. lib. lxviii.) (4) Horace talks of the formidine fustis (lib. ii. epist. ii. 154.;) but Cicero de Republica (lib. iv. apud Augus-tin. de Civitat. Dei. ix. 6. in Fragment. Phitosoph. torn. iii. p. 393. edit. Olivet.) affirms, that the decemvirsmade libels a capital offence: cum Perpaucas res capite faxissent—perpaucus I (5) Bynkershoek (Observat. Joris. Rom. lib. i. c. 1. in Opp. torn. i. p. 9—u.) labours to prove that the cre­ditors divided not the body, but the price of the insolvent debtor. Yet this interpretation is one perpetualharsh metaphor; nor can he surmount the Roman authorities ef Qumtilian, Ciecihus, Favonius, and Tetrtul-lian. See Aulus Gellius, Noct. Attic. 210