OCR Output Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 349 the fortresses belonging to the kingdom; but Salome and herparty laboured hard to have the woman put to death; and theyprevailed with the king to do so, and advised this out of cau­tion, lest the multitude should be tumultuous if she were suf­fered to live; and thus was Mariamne led to execution. 5. When Alexandra observed how things went, and that therewere small hopes that >he herself should escape the like treat­ment from Herod, she changed her behaviour to quite the reverseof what might have been expected from her former boldness, andthis after a very indecent manner: for out of her desire to showhow entirely ignorant she was of the crimes laid against Mari­amne, she leaped out of her place, and reproached her daughterin the hearing of all the people: and cried out, That " she had"been an ill woman and ungrateful to her husband, and that"her punishment came justly upon her, for such her insolent"behaviour, for that she had not made proper returns to him"who had been their common benefactor." And when shehad for some time acted after this hypocritical manner, and beenso outrageous as to tear her hair, this indecent and dissemblingbehaviour, as was to be expected, was greatly condemned by therest of the spectators, as it was principally by the poor womanwho was to suffer; for at the first she gave her not a word, norwas discomposed at her peevishness, and only looked at her, yetdid she, out of a greatness of soul, discover her concern for hermother's offence, and especially for her exposing herself in a man­ner so unbecoming her; but as for herself, she went to her deathwith an unshaken firmness of mind, and without changing thecolour of her face, and thereby evidently discovered the nobil­ity of her descent to the spectators, even in the last momentsof her life. 6. And thus died Mariamne; a woman of an excellent char­acter, both for chastity and greatness of soul; but she wantedmoderation, and had too much of contention in her nature, yethad she all that can be said in the beauty of her body, and hermajestic appearance in conversation; and thence arose the great­est part of the occasions why she did not prove so agreeable tothe king, nor live so pleasantly with him, as she might otherwisehave done; for while she was most indulgently used by the king^out of his fondness to her, and did not expect that he could doany hard thing to her, she took too unbounded a liberty. More­over, that which most afflicted her was, what he had done to heirelations, and she ventured to speak of all they had suffered byhim, fand at last greatly provoked both the king's mother andsister, till they became enemies to her) and even he himself alsodid the same, on whom alone she depended for her expectationsof escaping the last of punishments.