OCR Output 332 ROMAN EMPIRE. tues, which are necessary to maintain the reputation ofa prophet among his sectaries and friends. Of his lastyears, ambition was the ruling passion; and a politicianwill suspect, that he secretly smiled (the victorious im­postor!) at the enthusiasm of his youth, and the credu­lity of his proselytes.1 A philosopher would observethat their cruelty and his success would tend morestrongly to fortify the assurance of his divine mission,that his interest and religion were inseparably connect­ed, and 'that his conscience would be soothed by thepersuasion, that he alone was absolved by the Deity fromthe obligation of positive and moral laws. If he retainedany vestige of his native innocence, the sins of Mahometmay be allowed as the evidence of his sincerity. In thesupport of trurti, the arts of fraud and fiction may bedeemed less criminal; and he would have started at thefoulness of the means, had he not been satisfied of theimportance and justice of the end. Even in a conqueroror a priest, I can surprise a word or action of unaffectedhumanity; and the decree of Mahomet, that, in the saleof captives, the mother should never be separated fromtheir children, may suspend or moderate the censure ofthe historian.' private The good sense of Mahomet" despised thelife of pomp of royalty; the apostle of God submitted Mahomet, f .if • , m r i' r .i i- i • ji j to the menial offices of the family; he kindledthe fire, swept the floor, milked the ewes, and mendedwith his own hands his shoes and his woollen garment. • In some passage of his voluminous writings, \roltaire compares the prophet,in his old age, to a fakir,—" qui detache le chaine de son cou pour en donnersurles oreilles a ses confreres." 1 Gagnier relates, with the same impartial pen, this humane law of the prophet,and the murders of Caab and Sophian, which he prompted and approved. (Vie deMahomet, torn. 2. p. 69. 97. 20R.) • For the domestic life of Mahomet, consult Gagnier, and the correspondingchapters of Abulfeda; for his diet, (torn. 3. p. 285—288.) his children, (p. 189.239.) his wives, (p.290—303.) his marriage with Zeineb, (torn. 2. p. 152—16O.)his amour with Mary, (p 303—309.) the false accusation of Ayesha. (p. 186—199.) The most original evidence of the three last transactions, is contained inthe twenty-fourth, thirty-third, and sixty-sixth chapters of the Koran, with Sale'scommentary. Prideaux (Life of Mahomet, p. 80—90.) and Maracci (Prodrorn.Alcoran, part 4. p. 49—51.) have maliciously exaggerated the frailties of Mahomrt.