OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 333 Sea, the ocean, and the gulf of Persia, were saluted by the acclamations of afaithful people; and the ambassadors who knelt before the throne of Medina, wereas numerous (says the Arabian proverb) as the dates that fall from the maturity ofa palm tree. The nation submitted to the God and the sceptre of Mahomet; theopprobrious name of tribute was abolished, the spontaneous or reluctant obla­tions of alms and tithes were applied to the service of religion; and one hun­dred and fourteen thousand Moslems accompanied the last pilgrimage of theapostle. (1) When Heraclius returned in triumph from the Persian war, he entertained, atErhesa, one of the ambassadors of Mahomet, who invited the princes and na­tions of the earth to the profession of Islam. On this foundation the zeal of theArabians has supposed the secret conversion of the Christian emperor: the vanityof the Greeks has feigned a personal visit to the prince of Medina, who acceptedfrom the royal bounty a rich domain, and a secure retreat in the province of Sy­ria.^) But the friendship of Heraclius and Mahomet were of short continuance;the new religion had inflamed rather than assuaged the.rapacious spirit of the Sa­racens; and the murder of an envoy afforded a decent pretence for invading, withthree thousand soldiers, the territory of Palestine, that extends to the eastward ofthe Jordan. The holy banner was intrusted to Zeid; and such was the disciplineor enthusiasm of the rising sect, that the noblest chiefs served without reluctanceunder the slave of the prophet. On the event of his decease, Jaafar and Abdal-lah were successively substituted to the command; and if the three should pe­rish in the war, the troops were authorized to elect their general. The threeleaders were slain in the battle of Muta,(3) the first military action which triedthe valour of the Moslems against a foreign enemy. Zeid fell, like a soldier, inthe foremost ranks; the death of Jaafar was heroic and memorable; he lost hisright hand; he shifted the standard to his left; the left was severed from his body;he embraced the standard with his bleeding stumps, till he was transfixed to theground with fifty honourable wounds. " Advance," cried Abdallah, who steppedinto the vacant place, " advance with confidence; either victory or paradise is ourown." The lance of a Roman decided the alternative; but the falling standardwas rescued by Caled, the proselyte of Mecca: nine swords were broken in hishand; and his valour withstood and repulsed the superior numbers of the Chris­tians. In the nocturnal council of the camp he was chosen to command: his skil­ful evolutions of the ensuing day secured either the victory or the retreat of theSaracens: and Caled is renowned among his brethren and his enemies, by the glo­rious appellation of \he Sword of God. In the pulpit, Mahomet described, withprophetic rapture, the crowns of the blessed martyrs; but in private he betrayedthe feelings of human nature: he was surprised as he wept over the daughter ofZeid. " What do I see ?" said the astonished votary. " You see," replied theapostle, "a friend who is deploring the loss of his most faithful friend." Afterthe conquest of Mecca, the sovereign of Arabia affected to prevent the hostile pre­parations of Heraclius; and solemnly proclaimed war against the Romans, withoutattempting to disguise the hardships and dangers of the enterprise. (4) The Mos­lems were discouraged: they alleged the want of money, or horses, or provisions;the season of harvest, and the intolerable heat of the summer: " Hell is much hot­ter," said the indignant prophet. He disdained to compel their service; but on hisreturn he admonished the most guilty, by an excommunication of fifty days. Theirdesertion enhanced the merit of Abubeker, Othman, and the faithful companionswho devoted their lives and fortunes; and Mahomet displayed his banner at thehead of ten thousand horse, and twenty thousand foot. Painful indeed was thedistress of the march: lassitude and thirst were aggravated by the scorching andpestilential winds of the desert: ten men rode by turns on the same camel; andthey were reduced to the shameful necessity of drinking the water from the bellyof that useful animal. In the midway, ten days' journey from Medina and Da- (1) The last conquest and pilgrimage of Mahomet are contained in Abulfeda(p. 121—133.,) Gagnier (torn,iii. p. 119—219.,) Elmacin (p. 10,11.,) Abulpharagius. (p. 103.) The ninth of the Hegira was styled the Yearof Embassies (Gagnier, Not. ad Abulfed. p. 121.) (2) Compare the bigoted Al Jannabi (apod Gagnier, torn. i. p. 232—25S.) with the no less bigoted Greeks,Th*ophanes,(p.276—278.) Zonaras (torn. li. lib. 14. p. 86.) and Cedrenus. (p. 421.) (3) For the battle of Muta, and its consequences, see Abnlfeda (p. 100—102.) and Gagnier (torn. ii. p. 327—343.) KstXtSo; (says Theophanes) ov KiyivTt nxyjiiftav tow ©5Cu. (4) The expedition to Tabac is recorded by our ordinary historians, Abnlfeda (Vit. Moham. p. 123—127.) andOaenier (Vie de Mahomet, torn. iii. p. 147—163.;) but we have the advantage of appealing to the original evi­dence of the Koran (e. ix. p. 154—165.,) with Sale's learned and rational notes.