OCR Output HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXI. 303 was attempting to cross the Apennines, he was encoun­tered by a storm so furious, that its effects almostequalled in severity the disasters of the Alps. Therain, which was attended with a high wind, beingdriven directly into the men's faces, they at firsthalted, because they must either have cast away theirarms, or, if they persisted to struggle forward, wouldbe whirled round by the hurricane, and thrown on theground. Afterwards, scarcely able to respire, theyturned their backs to the wind, and for a while satdown. But now the whole atmosphere resoundedwith loud thunder, and lightnings flashed between thetremendous peals, by which all were stunned, and re­duced by terror nearly to a state of insensibility. Atlength, the violence of the rain abating, and the furyof the wind increasing, the more necessary it wasjudged to pitch their camp on the very spot wherethey had been surprised by the tempest. But this wasin a manner beginning their toils anew; for neithercould they well spread their canvass nor fix the poles;and such tents as they did get raised they could notkeep standing, the wind tearing and sweeping off everything in its way. And soon after, the water beingraised aloft by the force of the wind, and congealed bythe cold which prevailed above the summits of themountains, came down in such a torrent of snowy hail,that the men, giving over all their endeavors, threwthemselves flat on their faces, buried under, ratherthan protected by, their coverings. This was followedby cold so intense, that when they wished to rise fromamong the wretched crowd of prostrated men and cat­tle, they were for a long time unable to effect it, theirsinews being so stiffly frozen that they were scarcelyable to bend their joints. In some time, when, aftermany efforts, they at length regained the power of mo­tion, and recovered some degree of spirits, and whenfires began to be kindled in a few places, every onewho was unable to assist himself had recourse to theaid of others. Two days they remained in that spot,