OCR Output 104 THK ANNA1S [ A. U. C. 76». of Germanicus, and the auspices of Tiberius. Seve­ral other public monuments were dedicated at thesame time; a temple to Fortune, in the gardens onthe banks of the Tiber, which Julius Csesar had be­queathed to the Roman people; a chapel sacred to theJulian family; and a statue of Augustus in the sub­urbs, called Bmillm. In the consulship of Caius Csecilius and LuciusPomponius, Germanicus, on the seventh before thecalends of June, enjoyed the glory of a triumph overthe Cheruscans, the Cattians, the Angrivarians, andthe rest of the nations, extending as far as the Elbe.The spoils of the conquered, the prisoners of war,with various pictures of battles, mountains, and rivers,were displayed with great pomp and splendour. Thewar, though the general was not suffered to reap thefull harvest of his glory, was considered by the popu­lace as entirely finished. Amidst the grandeur of thismagnificent spectacle, nothing appeared so strikingas the graceful person of Germanicus, with his fivechildren, mounted on the triumphal car. The joy of 4the multitude was not, however, without a tincture ofmelancholy. Men remembered that Drusus, the fatherof Germanicus, was the darling of the people, andyet proved unfortunate; they called to mind youngMarcellus, blessed with all his country's wishes, yetprematurely snatched away. It happened, they said,by some fatality, that whenever a favoured characterwas the delight of the Roman people, their affec­tions ended always in a general mourning. XLII. Tiberius gave a largess to the populace ofthree hundred sesterces to each man, and ordered thedistribution to be made in the name of Germanicus,at the same time declaring himself his colleague in theconsulship for the ensuing year. These marks ofgood will were specious, but by no man thought sin­cere. He was now resolved to remove the favouriteof the people. This, however, was to be done undercolour of new honours. He framed a pretence, ortook advantage of that which the posture of affairspresented to him. Archelaus, during a space of fiftyyears, had swayed the sceptre of Cappadocia; but