OCR Output 302 ANTIO,UJTIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV. CHAP. XIV. How Herod got away from the king of Arabia, and made hasteto go into Egypt, and thence -went away in haste also to Rome:and how, by promising a great deal of money to Antony, lieobtained of'the senate and of'Caesar, to be made king of theJews. § 1. A s for Herod, the great miseries he was in did not dis­courage him, but made him sharp in discovering surprisingundertakings; for he went to Malchus, king of Arabia, whom hehad formerly been very kind to, in order to receive somewhatby way of requital, now he was in more than ordinary want ofit, and desired he would let him have some money, either by wayof loan, or as his free gift, on account of the many benefits hehad received from him; for not knowing what was become of hisbrother, he was in haste to redeem him out of the hands of hisenemies, as willing to give three hundred talents for the priceof his redemption. He also took with him the son of Phasaelus,who was a child of but seven years of age, for this very reasonthat he might be a hostage for the repayment of the money;but there came messengers from Malchus to meet him, bywhom he was desired to be gone, for that the Parthians hadlaid a charge upon him not to entertain Herod. This was onlya pretence which he made use of that he might not be obliged torepay him what he owed him: and this he was farther inducedto, by the principal men among the Arabians, that they mighttheat him of what sums they had received from [his father] An-tipater, and which he had committed to their fidelity. He madeanswer that he did not intend to be troublesome to them by hiscoming thither, but that he desired only to discourse with themabout certain affairs that were to him cf the greatest import­ance. 2. Hereupon he resolved to go away, and did go very prudent­ly the road to Egypt; and then it was that he lodged in a cer­tain temple, for he had left a great many of his followers there.On the next day he came to Rhinocolura, and there it was that heheard what was befallen his brother. Though Malchus soon re­pented of what he had done, and came running after Herod, butwith no manner of success, for he was gotten a very great wayoff, and made haste into the road to Pelusium; and when the sta­tionary ships that lay there hindered him from sailing to Alex­andria, he wentto their captains, by whose assistance, and that outof much reverence of, and great regard to him, he was conductedinto the city [Alexandria,] and was retained there by Cleopatra,