OCR Output SARDINIA. SARDINIA 907 E 1, Ac.), Sir Acs is named as one of the Seven'turtles, vbenos it is clear that at that time itsir-ibitaols had adopted Christianity. From Plinyr. .10) we learn that Sardea wan the capital of accfinaK: during the 6rat centuries of the Christianra vt hear of more than one council held there;ai S rantnoad to be a wealthy city down to thexi ef the Byzantine empire. (Eunap. p. 154; Hie- • i p. 669.) The Turks took possession of it in» Ilih century, and two centuries later it wastrwt entirely destroyed by Tamerlane. (Anna■ ox p. 323; M Ducas, p. 39 .) Sardes is now mm than a village, still bearing the name ofwf. which is situated in the midst of the ruins of» urieot city. These ruins, though extendings» t large space, are not of any great consequence; roasiat of the remains of a stadium, a theatre,«■ the triple walls of the acropolis, with lofty•fra Tf» fertile plain of Sardes bore the name of Sar-•nr or Imeitarbr wetW, and near the city was • clebrated tomb of Alyattes. Sardes was be-'ni to be the native place of the Spartan posti-naa, and it is weO known that the two rheto-titiu Diodoras and the historian Eunapius were of Sardes. (Chandler, Trawl* in AliaW. p. 316, folL: Leake, Alia Minor, p. 342,I; KKhter, WaUfairtm, p. 511, foU. ; Prokesch,•nhnrdtgk. vol. iii. p. 31, foil.] [L. S.] SARDINIA (A. 2<xp*a: Eth. SopJioj, Sardus:'"■■'a), one of the largest and most important■ads in the Mediterranean sea, situated to the S.Cnica (from which it was separated only by art* strait, now called the Strati of Bonifazio)J XW. of Sicily. Its most southern extremity,a» Sfmutivmto, was distant only 120 gcog. milesea Caps Serrat in Africa. L GxKKItAL DESCRIPTION. It was a disputed point in ancient times whether'-1 or Sardinia was the largest. Herodotus callsntinia ** the largest of islands " (yijacov i-waaiw>rwy. i. 170, r*>«"Hn> uryiimn; v. 106), but"■ares where it is not certain that the expression*" be coDstroed quite strictly. Scylax, however,*nrtly calls Sardinia the largest of all the islandst*« aUditerranean, assigning to Sicily only the ee-'i ruk (ScyL p. 56. § 113); and Timaeos seems to'• adopted the same view (op. Strab. xiv. p.654).a the general opinion was the other way: thepoet Alexins already enumerated the sevenmi wlands, as they were called, placing Sicily first<■ Sardinia aecond (Alex. ap. Const. Porphvr.Aw». iL §10)- and this view is followed byrasas C trims, as well as by the later geographers,"xa. Ch. p. 233; Strab. it p. 123; Plin. iii. 7.13, ft. a. 14; Diod. v. 17). Diodorus, however,sly reanau-ks, that it is very nearly equal to Sicilyxaraitnde (Diod. v. 16): and this opinion, which • adopted by Clnrerios (SieU. Ant p. 478), con-s*-i *o prevail down to a very recent period.2 rwoVra researches have proved that Sardinia istally the Larger of the two, though the differenceu trifling. (Smyth's Sardinia, p. 66.) Its*ral form is that of an oblong parallelogram,aw 149 geog. miles in its greatest length, byan CO in its average breadth, which, however,■us to sa much as 77 in one part. The measure-ats given by Pliny, of 188 miles (148J geog.■a) sa length along the E. coast, and 175 on the « therefore very fair approximations (Plin. iii. 7. s. 13), while those of Strabo, who calls theisland 220 miles in length by 98 in breadth, areconsiderably overstated. (Strab. v. p. 224.) Sardinia is a much more fertile and less moun­tainous island than Corsica. It is, however, traversedthroughout its whole lenpth from N. to S. by achain of mountains which commence at the headlandcalled Capo Ltmgo Sardo, and extend along theeastern side of the island, as far as Capo Carbonara^which forms the SE. extremity of the island. Thisrange, which is composed of granitic and otherprimary rocks, is undoubtedly a continuation, in ageological sense, of the mountains of Corsica, andproduces a rugged and difficult country formingmuch the wildest and most uncivilised part of Sar­dinia. The mountain summits, however, are farfrom attaining the same elevation as those of Corsica,the highest point, called Monte Genargentu, risingonly to 5276 feet, while the Monte di Sta ViXtoria,in the same neighbourhood, rises to 4040 feet, andthe peak of Limbarra (the most northerly group ofthe chain) to 3686 feet: but the general elevation ofthe range rarely exceeds 3000 feet. (Smyth, p. 67.)West of this mountain district, which may be con­sidered on a rough estimate as comprising aboutone half of the whole island, are situated three de­tached groups of mountains; the most considerableof which is that in the SW., which extends fromCapo Spartirento to Capo delta Frasca on the Gulfof Orutano, and the highest summits of whichattain to an elevation of nearly 4000 feet. In theextreme NW. of the island is another isolated rangeof less extent, called the Monti delta Aumi. ex­tending from the Capo delta Caccia to the Capodel Falcone. Both these groups are, like the moun­tains in the E. of the island, composed of primaryrocks; but N. of the river 7rrso, and extending fromthence to the N. coast of the bland beyond Sasiari,is an extensive volcanic tract, occupied in consider­able part by a range of extinct volcanoes, one ofwhich, the Monte Urticu, rises to an elevation of3430 feet. There is no trace of any volcanic actionhaving taken place within the historical period, butextensive tracts are still covered with broad streamsand fields of lava. Notwithstanding this abundanceof mountains, Sardinia possesses several plains ofconsiderable extent. The largest of these is thatcalled the Campidano, which extends from the Gulfof Cagliari to that of Orutano, thus separatingentirely the range of mountains in the SW. fromthose in the E. of the island; it is a tract of greatfertility. A similar plain, though of less extent,stretches across from the neighbourhood of Algheroto that of Porto Torres, thus isolating the chain ofthe Monti delta Xurra ; while several smaller onesare found in other parts of the island. The generalcharacter of Sardinia is therefore well summed upby Strabo, when he says, "the greater part of it isa rugged and wild country, but a large part containsmuch fertile land, rich in all kinds of produce, butmost especially in corn." (Strab. v. p. 224.) The great disadvantage of Sardinia, in ancient aswell as modern times, was the insalubrity of itsclimate. This is repeatedly alluded to by ancientwriters, and appears to have obtained among theRomans an almost proverbial notoriety. Mela callsit " soli quam coeli melioris, atque ut foecunda, itapens pestilens." Strabo gives much the same ac­count, and Martial alludes to it as the most deadlyclimate he can mention. (Strab. v. p. 225; MeLii.7. §19; Pans. x. 17. § 11; Martial, iv. 60. 6;