OCR Output Chap. II.] AND TIBERIUS GRACCHUS. 97 by the urban praetor Publius Lentulus (c. 589).* Less 165objectionable perhaps, but still not without hazard, was thearrangement by which the new allotments bore the charac­ter of heritable leaseholds and were inalienable. The most.liberal principles in regard to freedom of traffic had madeItome great; and it was very little consonant to the spiritof the Roman institutions, that these new farmers wereperemptorily bound down to cultivate their portions ofland in a definite manner, and that their allotments weresubject to rights of revocation and all the cramping measuresassociated with a system of commercial restriction. , It will be granted that these objections to the Sempronianlaw were of no small weight. Yet they were not decisive.Such a practical disinheriting of the holders of the domainswas certainly a great evil; yet it was the only means ofchecking, at least for a long time, an evil much greater stilland in fact directly destructive to the state—the decline of theItalian farmer-class. We can well understand thereforewhy the most distinguished and patriotic men even of theconservative party, headed by Gaius Lslius and ScipiojEmilianus, approved and desired the distribution of thedomains viewed in itself. But, if the aim of Tiberius Gracchus probably appeared to The domainthe great majority of the wise friends of their country good question le-and salutary, the method which he adopted, on the other forehand, did not and could not meet with the approval of a 6single man of note or of patriotism. Rome about this periodwas governed by the senate. Any one who carried ameasure of administration against the majority of the senate,made a revolution. It was a revolution as respected thespirit of the constitution, when Gracchus submitted thedomain question to the people; and a revolution also to.respected the letter, when he destroyed not only for themoment but for all time coming the tribunician veto—thecorrective of the state machine, through which the senate con­stitutionally got rid of the interferences with its government—by the unconstitutional deposition of his colleague, which * This fact, hitherto only partially known from Cicero (J>« L. Agr. ii.31, 82; comp. Liv. xlii. 2. 19), is not substantiated by the fragments ofLicinianus, p. 4. The two accounts are to be combined to this effect, thatLentulus ejected the possessors in consideration of a compensatory sum fixedby him, but accomplished nothing in the case of real proprietors, as he wasnot entitled to dispossess them and they would not consent to sell. VOL. III. H