OCR Output Chap. VII.] AND THE SULPICIAN REVOLUTION. 237 Italy as well as in Rome, from which the insurrection hadoriginated, and which now, when the half of Italy was underarms, appeared to the whole of the indignant and alarmedburgesses undoubted treason. The sentences of this com­mission greatly thinned the ranks of the senatorial partyfavourable to mediation; among other men of note Drusus'intimate friend, the young and talented Gaius Cotta, wassent into banishment, and with difficulty the grey-hairedMarcus Scaurus escaped the same fate. Suspicion went sofar against the senators favourable to the reforms of Drusus,that soon afterwards -the consul Lupus reported from thecamp to the senate regarding the communications that wereconstantly maintained between the Optimates in his campand the enemy; a suspicion, which, it is true, was soonshown to be unfounded by the arrest of Marsian spies. Sofar king Mithradates might not without reason assert, thatthe mutual enmities of the factions were more destructiveto the Roman state than the Social War itself. In the first instance, however, the outbreak of the insur- Energeticrection and the terrorism, which the commission of high decrees,treason exercised, produced at least a semblance of unity andvigour. Party feuds were silent; able officers of all shades—democrats like Gaius Marius, aristocrats like Lucius Sulla,friends of Drusus like Publius Sulpicius Rufus—placed them­selves at the disposal of the government. The largesses ofcorn were, apparently about this time, materially abridgedby decree of the people with a view to husband the financialresources of the state for the war; which was the morenecessary, as, owing to the threatening attitude of king Mith­radates, the province of Asia might at any moment fall intothe hand of the enemy and thus one of the chief sources ofthe Roman revenue be dried up. The courts, with the ex­ception of the commission of high treason, in accordancewith a decree of the senate temporarily suspended theiraction ; all business stood still, and nothing was attended tobut the levying of soldiers and the manufacture of arms. While the leading state thus collected its energies in the Politicalprospect of the severe war impending, the insurgents had to organiza-solve the more difficult task of acquiring political organiza- *lon hetion during the struggle. In the territory of the Paelignians, tion.situated in the centre of the Marsian, Samnite, Marrucinian,and Vestinian cantons and consequently in the heart of theinsurgent districts, in the beautiful plain on the river