OCR Output THE DECLINE AND FALL the inclination to discharge this accumulated demand:and the impartial wisdom of a legislator would havebeen displayed in balancing the adverse claims andcomplaints, by an equitable and temperate arbitration.But the whole empire, and particularly the East, wasthrown into confusion by the rash edicts of Julian;and the Pagan magistrates, inflamed by zeal and re­venge, abused the rigorous privilege of the Romanlaw, which substitutes, in the place of his inadequateproperty, the person of the insolvent debtor. Underthe preceding reign, Mark, bishop of Arethusa, hadlaboured in the conversion of his people with armsmore effectual than those of persuasion. The ma­gistrates required the full value of a temple which hadbeen destroyed by his intolerant zeal: but as theywere satisfied of his poverty, they desired only tobend his inflexible spirit to the promise of the slightestcompensation. They apprehended the aged prelate,they inhumanly scourged him, they tore his beard;and his naked body, anointed with hqney, was sus­pended, in a net, between. heaven and earth, and ex­posed to the stings of insects and the rays of aSyrian sun*. From this lofty station, Mark stillpersisted to glory in his crime, and to insult theimpotent rage of his persecutors. He was at lengthrescued from their hands, and dismissed to enjoy thehonour of his divine triumph. The Arians cele­brated the virtue of their pious confessor; the Ca­tholics ambitiously claimed his alliance; and thePagans, who might be susceptible of shame or remorse,were deterred from the repetition of such unavailingcruelty. Julian spared his life; but if the bishop of * The sufferings and constancy of Mark, which Gregory has so tragicallypainted (Orat. iii. p. 88—91.), are confirmed by the unexceptionable and re­luctant evidence of Libanius. M.etpme exuvoc c/jityuvof, xoh partyupMii, xoti thnwyti>vt>t «utu TtWoptvu, navToi fvtyxw* a>5puajf vuv tffoQias tffTt Tfluf xi/ia*?, xavfeuv irif, wififtaxirtis iu*uf. Epist. 730. p. 350, 351. Edit. Wolf. Auistel.1738.