OCR Output CHAP. LI. 463 After the revolution of eleven centuries, theJgws and Christians of the Turkish empire enjoythe liberty of conscience which was granted bythe Arabian caliphs. During the first age of the con­quest, they suspected the loyalty of the Catholics, whosename of Melchites betrayed their secret attachment tothe Greek emperor, while the Nestorians and Jacobites,his inveterate enemies, approved themselves the sincereand voluntary friends of the Mahometan government.*Yet this partial jealousy was healed by time and submis­sion; the churches of Egypt were shared with the Ca­tholics,11 and all the oriental sects were included in thecommon benefits of toleration. The rank, the immu­nities, the domestic jurisdiction, of the patriarchs, thebishops, and the clergy, were protected by the civil ma­gistrate: the learning of individuals recommended themto the employments of secretaries and physicians; theywere enriched by the lucrative collection of the revenue;and their merit was sometimes raised to the commandof cities and provinces. A caliph of the house of Abbaswas heard to declare, that the Christians were mostworthy of trust in the administration of Persia. TheMoslems (said he) will abuse their present fortune; theMagians regret their fallen greatness; and the Jews areTheir impatient for their approaching deliverance} Buthardships. the slaves of despotism are exposed to the alter­natives of favour and disgrace. The captive churchesof the east have been afflicted in every age by the avariceor bigotry of their rulers: and the ordinary and legal 'Absit (<aid the Catholic to the vizier of Bagdad) ut pari loco habeas Nestc-riauos, quorum prater Arabas nullus alias rex est, et Gracos quorum reges amo-rendo Arabibus bello mm desistunt, &c. See in the collections of Assemannus,(Bibliot. Orient, torn. 4. p. 94—101.) the state of the Nestorians under the caliphs.That of the Jacobites is more concisely exposed in the Preliminary Dissertation ofthe second volume of Assemannus. h Eutych. Annal. torn. 2. p. 384. 387,388. Renandot, Hist. Patriarch. Alex,p. 205, 906.257. 331. A taint of the Monothelite heresy might render the first ofthese Greek patriarchs less loyal to the emperors and less obnoxious to the Arabs.'Motadhed, who reigned from A.D. 892 to 902. The .Magians still held theirname and rank among the religions of the empire. (Assemanni, Bibliot. Orient,torn. 4. p. 97.)