OCR Output 5S INTERNUM MARE. INTERNUM MAKE. the Afrienn continent. The E. part of this basin isinterrupted by Cyprus alone, nnd was divided intothe Carpathian, l'ainpliylian, Cilician, and Syriantea*. The third or Aegean portion is bounded to theS. by a curved line, which, commencing at the coastof Caria in Asia Minor, is formed by the islands ofRhodes, Crete, and Cythcra, joining the I'elopon-ncsus not far from Cape Malea, witli its subdivisions,the Thracian, Myrtoan, Icarian, and Cretan seas. Kmm the Aegean, the " White Sea" of the Turks,the channel of the Hellespont leads into the 1'ro.pontis, connected by tho Thracian Bosporus withthe Euxine: to the NE. of that sheet of waterlies the Pains Macotis, with the strait of the Cim­merian Bosporus. The configuration of the con-tinenta nnd of the islands (the latter either severedfrom the main or volcanically elevated in lines, as ifover long fissure*) led in very early times to cosmo-lugical views resfiecting eruptions, terrestrial revulu-tions, and overpourings of the swollen higher seasinto those which were lower. The Euxine, theHellespont, the straits of Gades, and the Interna!Sea, with its many islands, were well fitted tooriginate such theories. Not to speak of the floodsof Ogyges and Deucalion, or the legendary cleavingof tin- pillars of Hercules by that hero, the Sanio-thraciao traditions recounted that the Euxine, oncenn inland lake, swollen by the rivers that flowedinto it, had broken first through the Bosporus andafterwards the Hellespont. (I)iod. v. 47.) A reflexof these Samothracian traditions appears in the*' Sluice Theory" of Straton of Lampsacus (Strab.i. pp. 49, 50), according to which, the swellings ofthe waters of the Euxine first ojiened the passageof the Hellespont, and afterwards caused the outletthrough the l'illars of Hercules. This theory ofStraton led Eratosthenes of Cyrene to examine theproblem of the equality of level of all external seas,or seas surrounding the continents. (Strab. /. c.\comp. ii. p. 104.) Strabo (i. pp. 51, 54) rejectedthe theory of Straton, as insufficient to account forall tho phenomena, and projjoscd one of his own, thoprofoundness of which modem geologists are only nowbeginning to appreciate. "It is not," he says (L a),** because the lands covered by seas were originallyat different altitudes, that tho waters have risen, orsubsided, or receded from some parts and inundatedothers. But the reason is, that the same land issometime* raised up and sometimes depressed, sothat it either overflows or returns into its ownplare again. We must therefore ascribe the causeto the ground, either to that ground which is underthe sea, or to that which becomes flooded by it;hut rather to that which lies beneath the sea, forthis is more moveable, and, on account of its wet­ness, can be altered with greater quickness." (Lyell,Geologg, p. 17; Humboldt, Comot, voL ii. p. 118,tran*., Aspect* of Nature, toL ii. pp. 73—83,trans.) The fluvial system of the Internal Sea, includingthe rivers that fall into the Euxine, consists, be-sid<~* many secondary streams, of the Nile, I)anube,Borysthenes, Tanais, Po, Khone, Kbro, and Tyraa.The general physics of this sea, and their connec­tion witli ancient speculation*, do not fall withinthe scope of this article; it will be sufficient to saythat the theory of the tide* was first studied on themast of this, which can only in poetical languagel>e called "a tideless sea." The mariner of old hadhis chart* and tailing directories, was acquainted with the bewildering currents and counter-currentsof this sea, — the "Typlmn" (ru^mr), and the"Prester" (w»ncfTifp), the destroyer of those atsea, of which Lucretius (vi. 422—443) has givenso terrific a description, — and hailed in the hoarof danger, as the *' Dioscuri" who played about themast-head of his vessel (Plin. ii. 437; Sen. Sat.Qiuiesl. ii.), the fire of St. Elmo, "sacred to theseaman." Much valuable information upon tliewinds, climate, and other atmospheric phenomena,as recorded by the ancients, and compared withmodem investigations, is to l>e found in Smyui(Mediterranean, pp. 210 — 302). Forbiger's sec­tion upon Physical Geography (vol. i. pp. 576—655) is useful for the references to the Latin andGreek authors. Some papers, which appeared inFraser't Magazine for the years 1852 and 1853,upon the fish known to the ancients, throw con­siderable light upon the ichthyology of this sr;i.Recent inquiry has confirmed the troth of manyinstructive and interesting facts relating to the fUaof the Mediterranean which have been handed dowaby Aristotle, Pliny, Archestratus, Aclian, Ovid, Op-pian, Athenaeus, and Ausonius. 4. Historical litography.—To trace the pmfrresaof discovery on the waters and shores of this seawould be to give the history of civilisation,—•* nul­lum sine nomine saxum." Its geographical positionhas eminently tended towards the intercourse ofnations, and the extension of the knowledge ofthe world The three peninsulas — the Iberian,Italic, and Hellenic—run out to meet that of A*iaMinor projecting from the E. coast, while the i-landaof the Aegean have served as stepjsng stone* t' rthe passage of the peoples from one continent to theother; and the great Indian Ocean advance* by thefissure between Arabia, Aegypt, and Abyssinia, underthe name of the Red Sea, so as only to be dividedby a narrow isthmus from the Delta of the Nilevalley and the SE. coast of the Mediterranean. '• We," says Plato in the Phacdo (p. 109. b.),"who dwell from the Phasis to the Pillars of Her­cules, inhabit only a small portion uf tho earth iowhich we have settled round the (Interior) sea, likeant* or frogs round a marsh." And yet the marginof this contracted basin has been the site when*civilisation was first developed, and the theatre >4the greatest events in the early history of the world.Religion, intellectual culture, law, arts, and tain.ner*— nearly everything that hits us above thosavage, have come from these coasts. The earliest civilisation on these shore* was tothe S., but the national character of the Aegyptian*was opposed to intercourse with other nations, andtheir navigation, such as it was, was mainly con­fined to the Nile and Arabian gulf. The Phoe­nicians were the first great agents in promoting thecommunion of people*, and their flag wared in everypart of the waters of the Internal Sea. Cartilageand Etruria. though of les* importance than Phoe-nicii in connecting nations and extending tho gen-graphical hi'riton, exercised great influence oncommercial intercourse with the W. coast of Africaand the N. of Europe. The progressive mornncfitpropagated itself more widely and enduringly throogo,the Greeks and Romans, especially after the Utterhad broken the Phoenico-Carthaginian power. In the Hellenic peninsula the broken configuratioaof the coast-line invited early navigation and com­mercial intercourse, and the expeditions of UseSanuani (Herod, iv. 16S), and I'bocaean* (Herod.