OCR Output 482 ROMAN EMPIRE. of march had been prolonged above a thousand milesfrom the rock of Gibraltar to the banks of the Loire; therepetition of an equal space would have carried the Sa­racens to the confines of Poland and the Highlands ofScotland: the Rhine is not more impassible than theNile or Euphrates, and the Arabian fleet might havesailed without a naval combat into the mouth of theThames. Perhaps the interpretation of the Koran wouldnow be taught in the schools of Oxford, and her pulpitsmight demonstrate to a circumcised people the sanctityand truth of the revelation of Mahomet."Defeat of From such calamities was Christendom de-cens by* Hvercd by the genius and fortune of one man.Mart" Charles, the illegitimate son of the elder Pepin,A.D.732. \vas content with the titles of mayor or duke ofthe Franks, but he deserved to become the father of aline of kings. In a laborious administration of twenty-four years he restored and supported the dignity of thethrone, and the rebels of Germany and Gaul were suc­cessively crushed by the activity of a warrior, who, inthe same campaign, could display his banner on theElbe, the Rhone, and the shores of the ocean. In thepublic danger, he was summoned by the voice of hiscountry; and his rival, the duke of Aquitain, was re­duced to appear among the fugitives and suppliants."Alas ! (exclaimed the Franks) what a misfortune ! whatan indignity! We have long heard of the name and con­quests of the Arabs: we were apprehensive of their at­tack from the east; they have now conquered Spain,and invade our country, on the side of the west. Yettheir numbers, and (since they have no buckler) their them no more than the intention. Ad domum beatissimi Martini evertandam de-stinant. At Carolus, &c. The French annalist was more jealous of the honour ofthe saint . t Yet I sincerely doubt whether the Oxford mosch would have produced a vo­lume of controversy so elegant and ingenious as the sermons lately preached byMr. White, the Arabic professor, at Mr. Bampton's lecture. His observations onthe character and religion of Mahomet are always adapted to his argument, andgenerally founded in truth and reason. He sustains the part of a lively and elo­quent advocate, and sometimes rises to the merit of an historian and philosopher.