OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. was indeed much inferior to our modern fire-arms; since it was ex足hausted by a single discharge, at the distance of only ten or twelvepaces. Yet when it was launched by a firm and skilful hand, therewas not any cavalry that durst venture within its reach, nor anyshield or corslet that could sustain the impetuosity of its weight. Assoon as the Roman had darted his pilum, he drew his sword, andrushed forwards to close with the enemy. It was a short well-tempered Spanish blade, that carried a double edge, and was alikesuited to the purpose of striking, or of pushing; but the soldier wasalways instructed to prefer the latter use of his weapon, as his ownbody remained less exposed, whilst he inflicted a more dangerouswound on his adversary 4V The legion was* usually drawn up eightdeep; and the regular distance of three feet was left between thefiles as well as ranks *6. A body of troops, habituated to preservethis open order, in a long front and a rapid charge, found them*selves prepared to execute every disposition which the circumstancesof war, or the skill of their leader might suggest. The soldierpossessed a free space for hip arms and motions, and sufficient inter*-vals were allowed, through which seasonable reinforcements mightbe introduced to the relief of the exhausted combatants 47. Thetactics of the Greeks and Macedonians were formed on very differ足ent principles. The strength of the phalanx depended on sixteenranks of long pikes, wedged together in the closest array+!. Butit was soon discovered by reflection, as well as by the event, that thestrength of the phalanx was unable to contend with the activity ofthe legion * The cavalry, without which the force of the legion would haveremained imperfect, was divided into ten troops or squadrons; thefirst, as the companion of the first cohort, consisted of an hun足dred and thirty-two men; whilst each of the other nine amountedonly to sixty-six. The entire establishment formed a regiment, ifwe may use the modern expression, of seven hundred and twenty-six horse, naturally connected with its respective legion, but occa足sionally