OCR Output SILVER STATUES. of silver, from their having been so commonly made of gold. Andin our own time, we have the example of Arellius Fuse us, (hewho was degraded from the equestrian order in consequence of hisbeing followed by a number of young men) who had his ringsmade of silver. But to what purpose do I collect facts of this de­scription, when the hilts of the soldiers1 swords are carved in sil­ver, ivory being quite despised, and when their sheaths and beltsabsolutely rattle with silver chains and plates. Even the youngpages wear a ring of silver,3 and the women cannot wash their feetexcept in silver vessels; and the same material is used both tohold our food, and for the most degrading purposes. Could Fa-bricius see these things, the baths of the women paved with silver,so that there is not even a spot left to set the foot on, the womenalso bathing along with the men; could Fabricius, I say, whoforbad even the bravest generals to possess more than a plate anda salt-cellar of silver, see what ought to be kept as a reward forvalour, converted to such purposes! But, alas for our manners,we are now ashamed of Fabricius! 55. DISTINGUISHED WORKS, AND WORKMEN, IN SILVER. 4 It is remarkable that no one has distinguished himself in theengraving of gold, while so many have in silver. Mentor,4 whom Imentioned above, was the most celebrated. There were four pair ofvases entirely executed by him, but none of them are said nowto exist, in consequence of the Temple of Ephesus and the Ca­pitol having been burned down. Varro says that he had a bronzestatue made by this artist. Those who stand next to him areAcragus, Boethus, and Mys. There are works of all these nowat Rhodes; the Minerva of Boethus at Lindus, a statue by Acra­gus in the temple of father Bacchus, and in the city of Rhodesthe female Bacchante and the Centaur, carved on goblets; in thesame temple are the Silenus and the Cupids of Mys. The hunt,executed on a goblet by Acragus, is very celebrated. The nextafter them in reputation are Calamis and Antipater, and also Stra-tonicus, whose figure of a satyr, oppressed by sleep, is more pro­perly said to be laid upon the jar, than carved on it. After these s " Ad transitum virilitatis custodiantur argento;" See Celsus, lib. vii.cap. '25, sec. 3. 4 Mentor and Praxitiles are among the artists mentioned by Martial inthe epigram referred to above, p. 64-.