OCR Output 890 MASSIANI. MASSILIA. MASSIA'XI (Mcuratavoi, Strab. xt. p. 693), apeople who dwelt in the XE. part of India, beyondtlie Panjiib, between the Coptics and the Indus.They are mentioned by Strabo in connection withthe Astaceni and Aspasii, and must therefore havedwelt along tlie mountain range to the N. of theKabul river. [V.] MA'SSICUS MONS (Montt Massico), a moun­tain, or rather range of hills, in Campania, whichfonned the limit between Campania properly so calledand the portion of Latium, south of the Liris, towhich the name of Latium Novum or Adjectum wassometimes given. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9.) The MassicanHills form a range of inconsiderable elevation, whichextends from the foot of the mountain group nearSucssa (the Mte. tli Sta, Crocs'), in a SW. direction,to within 2 miles of the sea, where it ends in thehill of Mondragone, just above the ancient Sinuessa.The Massican range is not, like the more loftygroup of the Mte. di Sla. Croce or Rocca Monjina,of volcanic origin, but is composed of the ordinarylimestone of tlie Ajiennines (Daubeny On Volcanoes,p. 175). But, from its immediate proximity to thevolcanic formations of Campania, the soil whichcovers it is in great part composed of such products,and hence probably the excellence of its wine, whichv;is one of the most celebrated in Italy, and viedwith the still more noted Falernian. (Virg. Ceorg.ii. 143, Aen. vii. 724; Hor. Carm. i. 1. 19, iii. 21.5; Stt.Ital.Tii.20; Martial, i. 27. 8, xiii. Ill; Plin.adv. 6. s. 8; Columell. iii. 8.) Yet the whole of thiscelebrated range of hills does not exceed 9 miles inlength by about 2 in breadth. [E. H. It.] MASSICYTES, MASSYCITES, or MASSICY-TUS (MatrffiVuroj), a mountain range traversingwestern Lycia from north to south, issuing in thenorth, near Xysa, from Mount Taurus, and runningalmost parallel to the river Xanthus, though in tliesouth it turns a little to the east. (Ptol. v. 3. § 1;Plin. t. 28; Quint Smyra. iii. 232.) [L. S. COIN OF MABKICYTKS. MASSIE'XA. a town, mentioned only by Avienus{Or. Marit. 450, seq.), situated on the south coastof Hisjiania Tarracunenais, from which the SinusMassiemis derived its name. It is the bay S. ofCartagena between C. Polos and C. Gata. MASSIT.IA (MaffffoAio: Eth. MatHraXivrns,Ma<rffoAi^r»7J, MaffffaAieuT. in the feminine, Mew-iraAiwm; Mu*>iliensis: the modern name, Mar­seille, is from the corrupted Latin. Marsilia, whichin the Provencal became Marsillo). Massalia,which the Romans wrote Massilia, is a town ofGallia Xarbonensis, on the coast, east of the Rhone.Its position is represented by the French city ofMarseille, in the de|»rtment of Bottchcs-du-Rhone.Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 8) calls Massalia a city of theCom mi mi, whose territory he extends along the coast jfrom Massalia to Forum Julii (Frtjus). He places |Massalia in 43° 5' N. lat. ; and he makes the length .of the longest day 15 hours, 15 minutes ; whichdoes not differ many minutes from the length of the {longest day a* deduced from the true latitude of!JtfarstiVJe, which is about 43° 18' N. lat. The territory of Marseille, though poor, wtv-duced some good wine and oil, and the sea aboundedin fish. The natives of the country were probablya mixed race of Celtac and Ligures ; or the Licu-run popidation may have extended west as tar a*the Rhone. Stephanus (,*.r. MaaaaXta), whoa* ao-thority is nothing, except we may understand himas correctly citing Hecatacus, describes Massalia a? acity of Ligvbtice in Celtice, And Strabo (it. p. 203)observes, " that as far west as MassalU, and a liltkfurther, the Salves inhabit the Alps that lie abcrathe coast and some parts of the coast itself, minifiedwith the Hellenes." This is doubtless the meaningof Strabo'stextjUsGroskurd remarks (Transi. -Sfraa.vol. i. p. 350). Strabo adds, "and the old Greeksgive to the Salyes the name of Ligyes, and to it*country which the Massaliots possess the name ofLigystice ; but the later Greeks name them Celto-ligyes, and assign to them the plain country as faras the Rhodanus and the Drueiitia." Massalia. then,appears to have been built on a coast which waaoccupied by a Ligurian people. The inhabitants of the Ionian town of Phoraea inAsia, one of the most enterprising maritime states <<"antiquity, showed their countrymen the way to theAdriatic, to Tyrrhenia, Iberia, and to Tarteacoiv(Herod, i. 163). Herodotus says nothing of tf*eirvisiting Celtice or the country of the Celtac Thestory of the origin of Massalia is preserved by Aristotle(ap.AOtm.xui. p. 576) in his history of the polity ofthe Massilienscs. Euxenus, a Phocaean, wa* a frv-Ddof Xannus, who was the chief of this part of thrcoast. Xannus, being about to marry his daughter,invited to the feast Euxenus, who happened tohave arrived in the country. Xow the marriagewas after the following fashion. The young wun.aawas to enter after the feast, and to give a cup of wme-and water to the suitor whom she preferred ; and th-man to whom she gave it was to I* her liu-bund.The maid coming iu gave the cup, either bjr chamor for some reason, to Euxenus. Her Dame wasPetta. The father, who considered the giving of thacup to be according to the will of the deity, consent**!that Euxenus should havo Petta to wife; and Eu­xenus gave her the Greek name Aristoxena. It iaadded, that there was a family in Massalia, up toAristotle's time, named Protiadae, for Prutia waa ason of Euxenus and Aristoxcua, Justin (xliii. 3, &c), the enitomiser of TragusPompeius, who was either of Gallic or Ligurianorigin, for his ancestors were Voeontii, tells the storyin a somewhat different way. He fixes the time ofthe Phoeaeans coming to Gallia in the reign of Tar*quinius, who is Tarquiniua Prisons. The Phoraeanafirst entered the Tiber, and, making a treaty with thaRoman king, continued their voyage to the farthestbays of Gallia and tlie mouths of the Rhone. Thwjwere pleased with the country, and returning toPhocaea, induced a greater number of Phoraeana togo with them to Gallia. The commanders of Usefleet were Simna and Protis. Plutarch also (£oicsa,c 2.) names Protos the founder of Mawalia. Simosand 1'rolis introduced themselves to Nannua, king cafthe Segobrii or Segobrigii, in whose trmtoriea tLvfwished to build a city. Nannua was busy at thattime with preparing for the marriage of his daughterCyptis, and the strangers were politely invited to themarriage feast. The choice of the young wicanfor her husband fell on Protis; but the cup »buashe offered him contained only water. From this fart,insignificant in itself, a modem writer deduce* tha