OCR Output 66 ROMAN EMPIRE. with a cargo of pearls and spices rewarded the zeal ofthe English monarch, who entertained the largest pro­jects of trade and discovery.11 When the Portuguesefirst opened the navigation of India, the Christians ofSt. Thomas had been seated for ages on the coast ofMalabar, and the difference of their character and colourattested the mixture of a foreign race. In arms, in arts,and possibly in virtue, they excelled the natives ofHin-dostan: the husbandman cultivated the palm-tree, themerchants were enriched by the pepper-trade, the sol­diers preceded the nairs or nobles of Malabar, and theirhereditary privileges were respected by the gratitude orthe fear of the king of Cochin and the Zamorin him­self. They acknowledged a Gentoo sovereign; butthey were governed, even in temporal concerns, by thebishop of Angamala. He still asserted his ancient titleof Metropolitan of India, but his real jurisdiction wasexercised in fourteen hundred churches, and he was in?trusted with the care of two hundred thousand souls.A. D. looo, Their religion would have rendered them the&c. firmest and mostcordial allies of the Portuguese, but the inquisitors soon discerned in the Christians of St.Thomas, the unpardonable guilt of heresy and schism.Instead of owning themselves the subjects of the Romanpontiff, thespiritual and temporal monarch of the globe,they adhered, like their ancestors, to the communion ofthe Nestorian patriarch; and the bishops, whom he or­dained at Mosul, traversed the dangers of the sea andland to reach their diocess on the coast of Malabar. Intheir Syriac liturgy, the names of Theodore and Nesto-riuswerepiouslycommemorated: they united their adora­tion of the two persons of Christ; the title of Mother of 11 Neither the author of the Saxon Chronicle, (A.D. 833.) nor William ofMalmeshury, (de Gestis Regum Angliie, lib. 2. c. 4. p. 44.) were capable, in thetwelfth century, of inventing this extraordinary facf: they are incapable of ex­plaining the motives and measures of Alfred; and their hasty notice serves onlyto provoke our curiosity, William of Malmeshury feels the difficulty of the enter­prise, quod quivis in hoc seculo miretur; and I almost suspect that the Englishambassadors collected their cargo and legend in Egypt. The royal authority hasnot enriched his Orosius (see Harrington's Miscellanies) with an Indian as wellas a Scandinavian voyage.