OCR Output 374 WARS OF THE JEWS. Book II, 3. These men are despisers of riches, and so very communi­cative as,raises our admiration. Nor is there any one to befound among them who hath more than another; for it is a lawamong them, that those who come to them must let what theyhave be common to the whole order, insomuch that among themall there is no appearance of poverty, or excess of riches, butevery one's possessions are intermingled with every other's pos­sessions, and'so there is, as it were, one patrimony among all thebrethren. They think that oil is a defilement; and if any oneof them be anointed, without his own approbation, it is wipedoff his body; for they think to be sweaty is a good thing, asthey do also to be clothed in white garments. They also havestewards appointed to take care of their common affairs, whoevery one of them have no separate business for any, but whatis for the uses of them all. 4. They have no one certain city, but many of them dwell inevery city; and if any of their sect come from other places,what they have lies open for them, just as if it were their own,and they go into such as they never knew before, as if they hadbeen ever so long acquainted with them. For which reason theycarry nothing at all with them when theytravel into remoteparts, though still they take their weapons with them, for fearof thieves. Accordingly, there is, in every city where they live,one appointed particularly to take care of strangers, and to pro­vide garments and other necessaries for them. But the habitand management of their bodies is such as children use who arein fear of their masters. Nor do they allow of the change ofgarments, or of shoes, till they be first entirely torn to pieces,or worn out by time. Nor do they either buy or sell any thingto one another, but every one of them gives what he hath tohim that wanteth it, and receives from him again in lieu of itwhat may be convenient for himself; and although there be noicquittal made, they are fully allowed to take what they want ofwhomsoever they please. ' 5. And as for their piety towards God, it is very extraordi­nary: for before sun-rising they speak not a word about profanematters, but put up certain 'prayers, which they have receivedfrom their forefathers, as if they made a supplication for its ri­sing. After this every one of them are sent away by their cura­tors to exercise some of thoce arts wherein they are skilled, inwhich they labour with great diligence till the fifth hour. , Af­ter which they assemble themselves together again into one place,and when they have clothed themselves in whits veils, they thenbathe their bodies in cold water. And aitcv this purification is'ever, they every one meet together in an apartment of their own, into