OCR Output Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 321 ways possible, that he might have no suspicion of any treach­erous design against him. He also did other things, in order tosecure his government, which yet occasioned a sedition in hisown family; for being cautious how he made any * illustrious..'person the high priest of God, he sent for an obscure priest out/of Babylon whose name was Ananelus, and bestowed the higtypriesthood upon him. 5. However, Alexandra, the daughter of Hyrcanus, and wifeof Alexander, the son of Aristobulus the king, who had alsobrought Alexander [two] children, could not bear this indig­nity. Now this son was one of the greatest comeliness, and wascalled Aristobulus; and the'daughter, Mariamne, was marriedto Herod, and eminent for her beauty also. This Alexandrawas much disturbed, and took this indignity offered to her sonexceeding ill, that while he was alive, any one else should be sentfor to have the dignity of the high priesthood conferred uponhim. Accordingly she wrote to Cleopatra (a musician assistingher in taking care to have her letters carried) to desire her in­tercession with Antony, in order to gain the high priesthood forher son. 6. But as Antony was slow in granting this request, his friendf Dellius came into Judea upon some affairs, and when he sawAristobulus, he stood in admiration at the tallness and hand­someness of the child, and no less at Mariamne, the king's wife,and was open in his commendations of Alexandra, as the mo­ther of most beautiful children: And when she came to discoursewith him, he persuaded her to get pictures drawn of them both,and to send them to Antony, for that when he saw them, hewould deny her nothing that she should ask. Accordingly Alex­andra was elevated with these words of his, and sent the picturesto Antony. Dellius also talked extravagantly, and said, That"these children seemed not derived from men, but from some"god or other." His design in doing so was to entice Antonyinto lewd pleasures with them, who was ashamed to send for * Here we have an eminent example of Herod's worldly and profane politics-when by the abuse of his unlawful and usurped power, to make whom he pleasedhigh priest, in the person of Ananelus, he occasioned such disturbances in his king.dom, and his own family, as suffered him to enjoy no lasting peace or tranquillityever afterward: and such is frequently the effect of profane court politics about mat­ters of religion in other ages and nations. The Old Testament is full of the mis­eries the people of the Jews derived from such court politics, especially in and af­ter the days of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin; who gave themost pernicious example of it; who brought on the grossest corruption of religionby it; and the punishment of whose family for it was most remarkable. The cat:eis too well known to stand in need of particular citations. t Of this wicked Dellius, sec the note on the War, B. I. ch. xv. sect. 3. vol. 111.