OCR Output 376 DECLIKE AND PALL ' [cHAP. XLIV. improvements could be expected from a farmer, who,interest of at ea°h moment, might be ejected by the sale of the es-money. tate." Usury,b the inveterate grievance of the city, hadbeen discouraged by the twelve tables,' and abolished bythe clamours of the people. It was revived by their wantsand idleness, tolerated by the discretion of the praetors,, . and finally determined by the code of Justinian. Personsof illustrious rank were confined to the moderate profitof four per cent.; six was pronounced to be the ordinaryand legal standard of interest; eight was allowed for theconvenience of manufacturers and merchants; twelve wasgranted to nautical insurance, which the wiser ancientshad not attempted to define; but except in this perilousadventure, the practice of exorbitant usury was severelyrestrained.*1 The most simple interest was condemned bythe clergy of the east and west:' but the sense of mutualbenefit, which had triumphed over the laws of the re­public, have resisted with equal firmness the decrees ofthe church, and even the prejudices of mankind/ a The covenants of rent are defined in the Pandects (lib;' 19.) and the Code, (lib.4. tit. 65 ) The qainquenniam, or term of five years, appears to have been a custom,rather than a law; hat in France all leases of land were determined in nine years.This limitation was removed only in the year 1775, (Encyclopedic Methodique, tom.1. do la Jurisprudence, p. 668, 669.) and I am sorry to observe that it yet prevailsin the beauteous and happy country where 1 am permitted to reside. b I might implicitly acquiesce in the sense and learning of the three books ofG. Noodt, de fcenore et usuris.(Opp. tom. 1. p. 175—268.) The interpretation of theasses or centesimae nsurie at twelve, the unciariae at one per cent. is maintained bythe best critics and civilians; Noodt, (lib. 2. e. X. p. "207.) Gravina, (Opp. p. 405,&C. 210.) Heineccius, (Antiquitat. ad Institut. lib. 3. tit. 15.) Montesquieu, (Espritdes Loix, lib. 22. c. 22. tom. 1. p. 36. Defense de I'Esprit des Loix, tom. 3. p. 478,&c.) and above all John Frederic Grunovius, (de Pecunia Veteri, lib. 3. c. 13. p.213—227.) and his three Antexegeses, (p. 455—655.) the founder, or at least thechampion, of this prohable opinion; which is however perplexed with some diffi­culties. c Primo daodecim tabulis sanoitum est ne quis unciario foenore amplius exerceret.(Tacit. Annal. 6.16.) Pour peu(says Montesquieu,Esprit des Loix, lib. 22. c. 22.)qu'on soit verse dans l'histoire de Rome, on Terra qu'une pareille loi ne devoit pasetre 1'ouvragc des decemvirs. Was Tacitus ignorant—or stupid? But the wiserand more virtuous patricians might sacrifice their avarice to their amhition, and mightattempt to check the odious practice by such interest as no lender would accept,audsuch penalties as no debtor would incur. d Justinian has not condescended to give usury a place in his Institutes; but thenecessary rules and restrictions are inserted in the Pandects (lib. 22. tit. 1, 2.) andthe Code. (lib. 4. tit. 32, 33.) e The fathers are unanimous, (Barbeyrao, Morale des Peres, p.-144, &c.)Cyprian,Lactantins, Basil, Chrysostom, (see his frivolous arguments in Noodt, lib. 1. ■e. 7.p. 188.) Gregory of Nyssa, Ambrose, Jerome, Augustin, and a host of councils andcasuists. 'Cato, Seneca, Plutarch, have loudly condemned the practice or abuse of usury.