OCR Output . . TO TIJE PUBLIC. ix ages: and when we consider the various accomplishmentsand requisites for executing it well, the reason why themost learned and polished nations have produced so fewperfect historians, will be abundantly obvious. To com­plete this character, the philosopher, the politician, thegeneral, the orator, and the man of the world, must allbe united in one and the same person. To accuracy and• diligence in his researches; symmetry, and proportionin the arrangement of his matter; elegance, and nervous­ness of diction; freedom and impartiality in his reflexions,he must join a thorough acquaintance with the consti­tution of the state whose history he writes, and the dis-*criminating characters of its various ages; an intimateknowledge of the human heart; and above all, an honest,virtuous, steady, and unbiassed disposition. The moreextended the subject, the greater variety of examples itexhibit?, the more genius it requires to treat it with pro­priety, and the more extensive the advantages to be de­rived from it. The subject upon which Livy treats, accurately con­sidered in evejy circumstance, is perhaps the most beau­tiful and richest that possibly can be conceived. TheRomans were a people, who from an origin the mostobscure and inglorious, by correcting what was amiss iutheir manners, by prudence in their councils, by activityand address in the executing of their plans, by secrecyand fidelity in their negociations, by strictness of disci­pline civil and military, and by their unshaken firmnessand fortitude, amidst the most imminent dangers, arrivedto fL pitch of glory almost incredible, which they owedalone to the vigour of their constitution, and their virtu­ous principles: so that their history furnishes us with allthat is great,—with all that is excellent,—with all thatis truly noble. In contemplating this mighty empire, the imaginationmusfrbe highly delighted, when the virtues which pro­moted its elevation, and the vices which hastened its ruin,pass in reuiew before it. It is here, where we can ex­amine the most illustrious characters with candour and"impartiality, unbiassed by prejudice, and undazzled bygreatness. Can the understanding be more enlarged, orthe judgment be letter confirmed, than in living thusover past.ages, profiting try their experience, and