OCR Output 74 1STRIAN0RUM PORTUS. ITALIA. lemy also mentions three towns, which he places inthe interior of the country, and names Pucinum,Piquentum {TliKov*tnov\ and Alvum or Alvon('AAoGoi-). Of these, Piquentum may be probablyidentified with Pingucnte, a considerable place in theheart of the mountain district of the interior; andAlvon with Albona (called Alvona in the Tabula),which is, however, E. of the A run, and therefore notstrictly within the Roman province of Istria. Inlike manner the Pucinuin of Ptolemy is evidentlythe same place with the "castcllum, nobile vino,Pucinum " of Pliny (vii. 18. s. 22), which the latterplace* in the territory of the Carni, between theTimavus and Tergcste, and was perhaps the samewith the modern Duino. Ningum, a place men­tioned in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 271) betweenTcrgeste and Parenlium, cannot be determined withany certainty. The Tabula also gives two names inthe N\V. part of the peninsula, Quaeri and Silvo(Silvum), both of which are wholly unknown. Thesame authority marks three small islands off thecoast of Istria, to which it Rives the names of Sepo-mana(?), Orsaria, and Pullaria: the last is men­tioned also by Pliny (iii. 26. s. 30), and is probablythe rocky island, or rather group of islets, off theharbour of Pola, now known as Li Brioni. Theother two cannot be identified, any more than theCissa of Pliny (/. c): the Absyrtides of the sameauthor are the larger islands in the Gulfo di Quar-nero, which belong rather to Liburnia than to Istria.[Absvkti dks.] The extreme southern promontory of Istria, nowcalled J'unUi di Promontore, seems to have beenknown in ancient times as the Pkomontoiui'mPoLATICUM (falpwTTipiov n oAotikoV, Steph. R. CO.Ild.Va). Immediately adjoining it is a deep bay orharbour, now known as the Golfu di Medulino,which must be the Portus Planaticus (probably acorruption of Klanaticus) of the Tabula. The Geographer of Ravenna, writing in the seventhcentury, but from earlier authorities, mentions tlienames of many towns in Istria unnoticed by earliergeographers, but which may probably have grown upunder the Roman empire. Among these arc Hu-mago, still called Umago, Neapolis (Cittii Xuova),Ituvignio (Rorigno), and Piranon (Pirano), all ofthem situated on the \V. coast, with good ports, andwhich would naturally become places of some tradeduring the flourishing period of Istria above alludedto. (Anon. Ravenn. iv. 30, 31.) [E. H. B.] ISTRIANORUM PORTL'S. [IsiacoulmPortus.] ISTRIA'NL'S ('I.Trpiardf, PtoL iii. 6. § 3), ariver of iii-' Tauric Chersonese, which has been iden­tified with the A'uui; Tap. (Forbiger, vol. iii. pp.1117,1121.) [K. B. J.] ISTROTOLIS, ISTBIO'POMS, HISTRIOTO-LIS ('IffrpowoAu, 'larpia toAii, or simply "\atpot:Jttert), a town of Lower Muesia, at the southernextremity of lake lUlmyria, on the coast of theKuxine. It was a colony of Miletus, and, at least inStrain's time, a small town, (Strab. vii. p. 319;Plin. iv. 18. 24: Mela. ii. 2; Eutrop. vi. 8; Herod,ii. 33. Arrian, Perip. L'ui. p. 24 ; Geog. Rav. iv. 6 jLymph. 74; Pt..l. iii. In. § K; S-ymn. t'ragm. 22;Stcpb. B.JL *.; Aram. Marc. xxii. 8; Hierocl. p. 637.)But the frequent mention of the place shows that itmust have been a commercial town of some import­ance; of its history, however, nothing is known. N modern writers have identified it with AVii- ttemn or Koitcmbjt, the ancient Coiutanliaoa, which, however, was in all probability situated tothe south of Istropolis. [L. S.) ISTBUS ("IffTpoi), a Cretan town which Arte-miilorus also called Ibtrona. (Staph. B. s. e.) Tl*latter form of the name is found in an inscription(up. Chuhull. Antiq. Ariui. p. 110). The site ■placed near Minoa: "Among the ruined edifices andcolumns of this ancient city are two immense marbleblocks, half buried in the earth, and measuring 54by 15 feet." (Cornelius, CVefej Sacra, vol. i. p. 11;ap. Mus. Clam. Antiq. voL it p. 273; comp. Hock,A'reta, vol. i. pp. 17, 421.) [E. B. J.j COIN OF ISTIIIS. ISTURGI (Andujar la Vieja), a city of His-pania Baetica, in the neighbourhood of Ili.i i ii'.i.k(Inscr. up. Florez, Kip. S. vol. viL p. 137.) TheIi'Asri koi I ran Mi'ii.iu! of Pliny (iii. I. s. 3) isprobably the same place. (Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp.380.381.) [PS-] 1SUBRIGANTUM. [Isuuium.] ISU'RIUM, in Britain, first mentioned by Pto­lemy (ii. 3. § 16) as a town of the Brigantea. Itthen occurs in two of the Itineraries, the 1st and2nd. In each, it lies between Cataractonium andEboracum (Catterick Bridge and York). Isubri-gantum, in the 5th Itinerary, does the same. In the time of the Saxons Isnrium hail alreadytaken the name of Eaid-burg (Old Tun), out otwhich has come the present name Aldborwgk, nearBtjraui/hbridge, with which it is undoubtedly identi­fied. Roman remains, both within and without the walls,are abundant and considerable at Aldlturough; theStodhart (or Studforth), the Red Hill, and theBorough Hill, being the chief localities. Tesaelatedpavements, the foundations of large and spaciousbuildings, ornaments, implements, Samian ware, andcoins with the names of nearly all the emperors fromVespasian to Constantine, have given to Isurium animjiortance equal to that of York, Cirencester, andother towns of Roman importance. [R. G. I. j lSl'S f lo-oi), a spot in Boeotia, near Anllx-dm,with vestiges of a city, which some citfiiiiienta-tors identified with tile Homeric Nisa. (Strab. n.p. 405 ; Horn. II. ii. 508.) There was apparentlyalso a town Isus in Megaris; but the passage inStrabo iu which the name occurs is corrupt. (Strab.Lc.) ITA'LIA ("ItoAio), wm the name given in an­cient an well a* in modern times to the iMuulnr stillcalled Italy ; and was applied, from tJie lime \4 Aq-gustus. both by Greek and Latin writer*, in alrnt»texactly tl..- same mom hs at the prest i.t day. Itwas, however, at first merely a ge«£raphi<tU term;the countries comprised under the name, thoughstrongly defined by natural limits, and common na­tural features, being from the earlieM ages frutdnftby different races, which were never politicallyunited, till they all fell tinder the nomas yoir, anilwere gradually blended, by the |«rvading iiUfloe..* otlC*jfiiMii institutions and the Latin language, into ontcommon nationality.