OCR Output 320 NOTES ON THE But in order to understand who the Homeric Circe is, it is ne«cessary to observe, that the ancient theologists, when they repre­sent divine natures, as employed in the exercise of certain arts,means to ininuate by such arts producing, prolific, inttllcBual, andperseQ'vvepowers, which proceed from the gods into the universe;all the parts of which are nothing more than illuminations ofthese powers. This being premised, "Circe (says Proclus inhis Scholia on the Cratylus) is that divine power which weavesall the life contained in the four elements, and at the fame timeby her song harmonizes the whole sublunary world. But theshuttle with which she weaves, is represented by theologists asgolden, because her essence is intellectual, pure, immaterial, andunmingled with generation; all which is signified by the shuttlebeing golden. And her employment consists in separating*things stable from such as are in motion, according to divinediversity." . I only add, that Homer with great propriety re­presents Circe, who presides over the sublunary world, or therealms of geneiation, as waited on by Nymphs sprung fromfountains: for Nympha,tsays Hermias (Comment. MS. in Flat.Phædrum), are goddesses presiding over regeneration, and arethe attendants of Bncchus the son of 'Semele. On this accountthey are present with water; that is, they ascend as it were into,and rule over generation. But this Dionysius or Bacchus sup­plies the regeneration of every sensible nature. tiv/ifo* h umiif oki Shu tH{ 'hiyyi'tai?.; imvsym tow m Zipita; Aravtfw, Jio <tjxufx Tip t'Jali im, tovt tfi tij ymm ariptfSnxjtin. wlos it e Aunn; Page 59. For a icy belongs to Pluto.'] Pluto is a deity of aguardian characteristic; and of this a key is a very proper sym­bol. But the following beautiful account of this divinity, fromthe Scholia of Proclus on the Cratylus, will I doubt not be high­ly acceptable to the truly liberal reader: "Pluto is an intellec­tual demiurgic god, who frees fouls from generation. For our* for the shuttle is a symbol of Jtfartfin^ fewer. _ whole