OCR Output 112 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI. ritans, and all that inhabited Celesyria, heard that the buildingwent on apace, they took it heinously, and proceeded to laysnares for them, and to hinder their intentions. They alsoslew many of the Jews, and sought how they might destroy Nehe-miah himself, by hiring some of the foreigners to kill him. Theyalso put the Jews in fear, and disturbed them, and spread abroadrumours, as if many nations were ready to make an expeditionagainst them, by which means they were harassed, and had almostleft off the building: But none of these things could deter Nehe-miah from being diligent about the work, he only set a numberof men about him as a guard to his body, and so unweariedlypersevered therein, and was insensible of any trouble out of hisdesire to perfect this work. And thus did he attentively, andwith great forecast take care of his own safety, not that he fear足ed death, but of this persuasion, that if he were dead, the wallsfor his citizens would never be raised. He also gave orders,that the builders should keep their ranks, and have their armouron while they were building. Accordingly, the mason had hissword on, as well as he that brought the materials for building.He also appointed that their shields should lie very near them;and he placed trumpeters at every five hundred feet, and chargedthem that if their enemies appeared, they should give notice ofit to the people, that they might fight in their armour, and theirenemies might*not fall upon them naked. He also went aboutthe compass of the city by night, being never discouraged, nei-, ther about the work itself, nor about his own diet and sleep, forhe made no use of those things for his pleasure, but out of ne足cessity. And this trouble he underwent for * two years andfour months: for in so long time was the wall built, in thetwenty-eigth year of the reign of Xerxes, in the ninth month.Now when the walls were finished, Nehemiah and the multitudeoffered sacrifices to God for the building of them, and they con足tinued in feasting eight days. However, when the nations whichdwelt in Syria heard that the building of the wall was finished, * It may not be very improper to remark here, with what an unusual accuracyJosephus determines these years of Xerxes, in which the walls of Jerusalem werebuilt, viz. that Nehemiah came with his commission on the 25th of Xerxes; that thewalls were two years four months in building, and that thuy were finished on the28th of Xerxes, sect. 7, 8. It may be also remarked farther, that Josephus hardlyever mentions more than one infallible astronomical character, I mean an eclipse ofthe moon, and this a little before the death of Herod the Great, Antiq. B. XVII. ch.vi. sect. 4. vol. III. Now on these two chronological characters in a great measuredepend some of the most important points belonging to Christianity, viz. the expli足cation of Daniel's 70 weeks, and the duration of our Saviour's ministry, and thetime of his death, in correspondence to those 70 weeks. See the supplement to theLit. Accump. of Proph. page 7*'