OCR Output *i6 Book XVIIL ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. conversed with Drusus, the Emperor Tiberius's son, and con­tracted a friendship with Antonia, the wife of Drusus the Great,who had his mother Bernice in great esteem, and was very desi­rous of advancing her son. Now, as Agrippa was by naturemagnanimous and generous in the presents he made, while hismother was alive, this inclination of his mind did not appear,that he might be able to avoid her anger for such his extrava­gance ; but when Bernice was dead, and he was left to his ownconduct, he spent a great deal extravagantly in his daily way ofliving, and a great deal in the immoderate presents he made, andthose chiefly among Caesar's freed-men, in order to gain theirassistance, insomuch that he was, in a little time, reduced to po­verty, and could not live at Rome any longer. Tiberius alsoforbade the fiiendsof his deceased son to come into his sight,because on seeing them he should be put in mind of his son, andhis grief would thereby be revived. 2. For these reasons he went away from Rome, and sailed toJudea, but in evil circumstances, being dejected with the loss ofthat money, which he once had, and because he had not where­withal to pay his creditors, who were many in number, and suchas gave him no room for escaping them. Whereupon he knew notwhat to do ; so, for shame of his present condition, he retired toa certain tower, at Malatha, in Idumea, and had thoughts ofkilling himself; but his wife Cypres perceived his intentions,and tried all sorts of methods to divest him from his taking sucha course : so she sent a letter to his sister Herodias, who wasnow the wife of Herod the tetrarch, and let her know Agrip-pa's present design, and what necessity it was which drove himthereto, and desired her, as a kinswoman of his, to give him herhelp, and to engage her husband to do the same, since .she sawhow she alleviated these her husband's troubles all she could, al­though she had not the like wealth to do it withal. So they senthim, and allotted him Tiberias for his habitation, and appointedhim some income of money for his maintenance, and made hima magistrate of that city, by way of honour to him. Yet did notHerod long continue in that resolution of supporting him, thougheven that support was not sufficient for him for, as once theywere at a feast at Tyre, and in their cups, and reproaches werecast upon one another, Agrippa thought that was not to be borne,while Herod hit him in the teeth with his poverty, and with hisowing his necessary food to him. So he went to Flaccus, onethat had been consul, and had been a very great friend to him atRome formerly, and was now president of Syria. 3. Hereupon Flaccus received him kindly, and he lived withhim. Flaccus had also with him there Aristobulus, who was indeed