OCR Output 254 DECLINE A NO FALL [CHAV. XLII. thousand yeara the sequestered region of myrrh andfrankincense. The conqueror immediately announcedthe victory of the gospel, requested an orthodox patri­arch, and so warmly professed his friendship to the Ro«man empire, that Justinian was flattered by the hope ofdiverting the silk-trade through the channel of Abyssi­nia, and of exciting the forces of Arabia against the Per-Their aft- sian king. Nonnosus, descended from a family of am-Justinian, bassadors, was named by the emperor to execute this im-a. d. 5S3. pliant commission. He wisely declined the shorter,but more dangerous, road through the sandy deserts ofNubia; ascended the Nile, embarked on the Red sea,and safely landed at the African port of Adulis. FromAdulis to the royal city of Axume is no more than fiftyleagues, in a direct line; but the winding passes of themountains detained the ambassador fifteen days; and ashe traversed the forests, he saw, and vaguely computed,about five thousand wild elephants. The capital, accord­ing to his report, was large and populous ; and the villageof Axume is still conspicuous by the regal coronations,by the ruins of a Christian temple, and by sixteen orseventeen obelisks inscribed with Grecian characters.*But the Negus gave audience in the open field, seated ona lofty chariot, which was drawn by four elephants su­perbly caparisoned, and surrounded by his nobles andmusicians. He was clad in a linen-garment and cap,holding in his hand two javelins and a light shield; and;although his nakedness was imperfectly covered, he dis­played the barbaric pomp of gold chains, collars, aadbracelets, richly adorned with pearls and precious stones.The ambassador of Justinian knelt; the Negus raisedhim from the ground, embraced Nonnosus, kissed theseal, perused the letter,accepted the Roman alliance, and, S Alvarez (in Ramnsio, tom. 1. fol. £19 vers. 221 vera.) saw the Oourishing stateof Axume in the year 1520—iuogo molto buouo e graode. It was mined in tho samecentury by the Turkish invasion. No more than one hundred houses remain; butthe memory of its past greatuess is preserved by the regal coronation. (Ludolph. UisUet Comment, lib. 2. c, 11.)