OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 93 disputed the friendship or rather the gifts of the em- chap. - YVYlf peror; and the distinction which nature had fixed * between the faithful dog and the rapacious wolf wasapplied by an ambassador who received only verbalinstructions from the mouth of his illiterate prince*.The Bulgarians, of whatsoever species, were equallyattracted by Roman wealth: they assumed* a vaguedominion over the Sclavonian name, and their rapidmarches could only be stopped by the Baltic sea, orthe extreme cold and poverty of the north. But thesame race of Sclavonians appears to have maintained,in every age, the possession of the same countries.Their numerous tribes, however distant or adverse,used one common language (it was harsh and irre­gular), and were known by the resemblance of theirform, which deviated from the swarthy Tartar, andapproached without attaining the lofty stature andfair complexion of the German. Four thousand sixhundred villages f were scattered over the provincesof Russia and Poland, and their huts were hastilybuilt of rough timber, in a country deficient both instone and iron. Erected, or rather concealed, in thedepth of forests, on the banks of rivers, or the edgeof morasses, we may not perhaps, without flattery,compare them to the architecture of the beaver;which they resembled in a double issue, to the landand water, for the escape of the savage inhabitant, ananimal less cleanly, less diligent, and less social, thanthat marvellous quadruped. The fertility of thesoil, rather than the labour of the natives, suppliedthe rustic plenty of the Sclavonians. Their sheepand horned cattle were large and numerous, and thefields which they sowed with millet and panic af- * Procopius (Goth. 1. iv. c. 19). His verbal message (he owns himself anilliterate Barbarian) is delivered as an epistle. The style is savage, figurative,and original.' f This sum is the result of a particular list, in a curious MS. fragment of theyear 550, found in the library of Milan.