OCR Output CHAP.XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 215 in the country of the Alanik and Circassians, where theyfirst heard of the splendour and weakness of the Romanempire. They humbly requested their confederate, theprince of the Alani, to lead them to this source of riches;and their ambassador, with the permission of the go­vernor of Lazica, was transported by the Euxine sea toConstantinople. The whole city was poured forth tobehold with curiosity and terror the aspect of a strangepeople; their long hair, which hung in tresses downtheir backs, was gracefully bound with ribbons, but therest of their habit appeared to imitate the fashion of theHuns. When they were admitted to the audience of Their em-Justinian, Candish, the first of the ambassadors, address- cXan-ed the Roman emperor in these terms.—" You see be- ^"°^lci58fore you, O mighty prince, the representatives of thestrongest and most populous of nations, the invincible,the irresistible Avars. We are willing to devote our­selves to your service: we are able to vanquish and de^-stroy all the enemies who now disturb your repose. Butwe expect, as the price of our alliance, as the reward ofour valour, precious gifts, annual subsidies, and fruitfulpossessions." At the time of this embassy, Justinian hadreigned above thirty, he had lived above seventy-fiveyears: his mind, as well as his body, was feeble andlanguid; and the conqueror of Africa and Italy, careless . ■of the permanent interest of his people, aspired only toend his days in the bosom even of inglorious peace. Ina studied oration, he imparted to the senate his resolutionto dissemble the insult, and to purchase the friendship,of the Avars; and the whole senate, like the mandarinsof China, applauded the incomparable wisdom and fore-:sight of their sovereign. The instruments of luxurywere immediately prepared to captivate the barbarians;silken garments, soft and splendid beds, and chains and *'Tin'Alani are still found in l^ie Genealogical History of the Tartars, (p. 617.)and in d'Anville's maps. They opposed the march of (he generals of Zingis roundthe Caspian sea, and were overthrown in a great battle. (Hist, de Gengiscan, lib. 4.c 9. p. 447.)