OCR Output 170 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XX. rusalem, and many of the Jews perished therein. But I shallfirst explain the occasion whence it was derived. When thatfeast, which is called the Passover, was at hand, at which timeour custom is to use unleavened bread, and a great multitude wasgathered together from all parts to that feast, Cumanus was a-fraid lest some attempt of innovation should then be made bythem ; so he ordered that one regiment of the army should taketheir arms,.. and stand in the temple cloisters, to repress any at­tempts of innovation, if perchance any such should begin ; andthis was no more than what the former procurators of Judea didat such festivals. But on the fourth day of the feast. a certainsoldier let down his breeches, and exposed his privy members tothe multitude, which put those that saw him into a furious ragerand made them cry out, that this impious action was not done toreproach them, but God himself; nay, some of them reproach­ed Cumanus, and pretended that the soldier was set on by him,which, when Cumanus heard, he was also himself not a littleprovoked at such reproaches laid upon him ; yet did he exhortthem to leave off such seditious attempts, and not to raise a tu­mult at the festival. But when he could not induce them to bequiet, for they still went on in their reproaches to him, he gaveorder that the whole army should take their entire armour, andcome to Antonia, which was a fortress, as we have said already,which overlooked the temple ; but when the multitude saw thesoldiers there, they were affrighted at them, and ran away hasti­ly ; but as the passages out were but narrow, and as they thoughttheir enemies followed them, they were crowded together in theirflight, and a great number were pressed to death in those narrowpassages ;. nor indeed was the number fewer than twenty thou­sand that perished in this tumult. So, instead of a festival, theyhad at last a mournful day of it; and they all of them forgottheir prayers and sacrifices, and betook themselves to lamentationand weeping ; so great an afHiction did the impudent obscene-ness of a single soldier bring upon them *. 4. Now before this their first mourning was over, anothermischief befell them also ; for some of those that raised the fore­going tumult, when they were travelling along the public road,about an hundred furlongs from the city, robbed Stephanus, aservant of Caesar, as he was journeying, and plundered him of allthat he had with him. Which things when Cumanus heard of, he * This, and many more tumults and seditions, which arose at the Jewish festi­vals, in Josephus, illustrate the cautious procedure of the Jewish governors, when,they said, Matt. xxvi. 5. " Let us not take Jesus on the feast- day, lest there be" an uproar among the people;" as Reland well observes on this place. Josephus.also takes notice of the same thing. Of the War, B. I. ch. iv. sect 3.