OCR Output 86 [boor III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. pains, by which they deemed every difficultymight be surmounted: and this was the resultof the battle. On the next day Moses stripped the deadbodies of their enemies, and gathered to­gether the armour of those that were fled,and gave rewards to such as had signalisedthemselves in the action, and highly com­mended Joshua, their general, who was at­tested to by all the army, on account of thegreat actions he had done; nor was any oneof the Hebrews slain, though the slain of theenemies' army were too many to be enume­rated. So Moses offered sacrifice of thanks­giving to God, and built an altar, which henamed, the Lord the conqueror. He alsoforetold that the Amalekites should be utterlydestroyed, and that hereafter none of themshould remain, because they fought againstthe Hebrews when they were in the wilder­ness, and in their distress. Moreover he re­freshed the army with feasting: and thus didthey fight this first battle with those that ven­tured to oppose them, after they were goneout of Egypt. But, when Moses had cele­brated this festival for the victory, he per­mitted the Hebrews to rest for a few days,and then brought them out after the fight inorder of battle; for they had now many sol­diers in light armour, and going gradually on,he came to mount Sinai, and three monthsafter they were removed out of Egypt, atwhich mountain, as we have before related,the vision of the bush, and the other wonder­ful appearances had happened. CHAP. ffl. OF RAOUEL's ARRIVAL AND RECEPTION BV MOSES AT MOUNTSINAI. WHEN Raguel, Moses's* father-in-law,understood in what a prosperous con­dition his affairs were, he willingly came tomeet him; and Moses took Zipporah his wife,and his children, and pleased himself with hiscoming: and when he had offered sacrifice,he made a feast for the multitude, near thebush he had formerly seen; everyone, accor­ding to their families, partaking of the festi­val. But Aaron and his family took Raguel,and sung hymns to God, as to him who hadbeen the author and procurer of their deliver- * Exod. xviii. 1. ance, and their freedom. They also praisedtheir conductor, as him by whose virtue itwas that all things had succeeded so wellwith them. Raguel, also, in his eucharisticaloration to Moses, made great encomiumsupon the whole multitude; and he could notbut admire Moses for his fortitude, and thathumanity he had shewed in the delivery ofhis friends. CHAP. IV. OF RAGUEL's FRIENDLY SUGGESTIONS RESPECTING THE GO­VERNMENT OF THE HEBREWS, WHICH WERE ADOPTED BVMOSES. THE next day, Raguel saw Moses in themidst of a crowd of business,f for hedetermined the differences of those that re­ferred them to him, every one still going tohim, and supposing they should then onlyobtain justice, if he were the arbitrator; andthose that lost their causes thought it no greatharm, while they thought they lost them justly,and not by partiality. Raguel, however, saidnothing at that time, as not desirous to be anyhindrance to such as had a mind to make useof the virtue of their conductor; but after­ward he took Moses to himself; and when hehad him alone, he instructed him in what heought to do, and advised him to leave thetrouble of lesser causes to others, but himselfto take care of the greater, and of the people'ssafety, for that others of the Hebrews mightbe found that were fit to determine causes,but that nobody but a Moses could take careof the safety of many thousands. "Be not,therefore," said he, " insensible of thine ownvirtue, and what thou hast done by minister­ing under God to the people's preservation.Leave, therefore, the determination of com­mon causes to others: but do thou reservethyself to the attendance on God only, andlook out for methods of preserving the multi­tude from their present distress. Make useof the method I suggest as to human affairs,and take a review of the army, and appointchosen rulers over tens of thousands, and,then over thousands; and then divide theminto five hundreds, and again into hundreds,and into fifties, and set rulers over each ofthem, who may distinguish them into thirties,and keep them in order, and at last number t Exod. xviii. 13.