OCR Output SYRACUSAE. SYRAGTSAE. ployed as prisons. Thus, after the Athenian expe­dition, the whole number of the captives, more than7000 in number, were confined in these quarries(Thue.vii. 86,87; Diod. xiii. .33); and they continuedto he used for the same purpose under successivedespots and tyrants. In the days uf Cicero theywere used as a general prison for criminals from allparts of Sicily. (Cic. Verr. v. 27.) The oratorin one passage speaks of them as constructed ex­pressly for a prison by the tyrant Dionysius (/6.55),which is a palpable mistake if it refers to the Lau-tumiae in general, though it is not unlikely that thedespot may have made some special additions to themwith that view. But there is certainly no authorityfor the popular tradition which has given the nameof the Ear of Dionysius to a peculiar excavation ofsingular form in the part of the quarries nearest tothe theatre. This notion, like many similar onesnow become traditional, is derived only from thesuggestion of a man of letters of the 16th century. 5. Eni'oLAK ('E7ri7roAaj), was the name ori­ginally given to the upper part of the table-landwhich, as already described, slopes gradually fromits highest point towards the sea. Its form is thatof a tolerably regular triangle, having its vertex atEuryalus. and its base formed by the western wallof Achradina. The name is always used by Thu-cydides in this sense, as including the whole upperpart of the plateau, and was doubtless so employedas long as the space was uninhabited; but as the suburbs of Tycha and Temenitis Kradoallrthemselves over a considerable put of thethe name of Epipolae came to be applied is *stricted sense to that portion only which was wto the vertex of the triangle, it is pewnhsinned that there subsequently arose % crtt&aSB jtown near this angle of the walls, and that taithe fifth quarter of the city alluded to by iwand those who spoke of Syracuse as a Ptattaa*aggregate of Jice cities. But there a so&lfcit as such in the passage of Cicero alreadyor in the description of the capture rf Syncs* fcfMarcellus; and it seems very doubtful vastthere w as ever any considerable popcUta* at Iremote point. No vestiges of any ancient basfcremain within the walls; but the Uneofthaaabe distinctly traced along the top of the cafttkbound the table-land both towards the X earS.; in many places two or three counr* dmasonry remain; but the meet importantthose at the angle or vertex of the triangle, rtispot named MongibeUui is still crowned byruins of the ancient castle or fort <f EcttJ(Evpv7}\os, Thuc, but the Doric form «*t IaAos, which was adopted by the Kamam).ruins in question afford one of the best axextant of an ancient fortress or castle,once to serve as a species of citadel and Si ithe approach to Epipolae from this qaartstannexed plan will give a good idea of a pawl FLAM OF THE FORT EURYALVS. form and arrangement. The main entrance to thecity was hy a double gate (A.), flanked on bothsides by walls and towers, with a smaller postern orsally-port a little to the right of it. The fortressitself was an irregular quadrangle, projecting about200 yards beyond the approach to the gate, andfortified by strong towers of solid masonry with adeep ditch cut in the rock in front of it, to which anumber of subterraneous passages gave access fromwithin. These passages communicating with thef>rt above by narrow openings and stairs, were evi­dently designed to facilitate the sallies of the be­sieged without exposing the fortress itself to peril.As the whole arrangement is an unique specimen ofancient fortification a view is added of the external,or N. front of the fort, with the subterraneanopenings. There can be no doubt that the fortress at Mun- rpMlisi is the one anciently known a*This clearly appears from the mention dat the time of the siege of Syraruse by ]as one capable of being held by a srparanafter the capture of the outer walk rfand threatening the army of MarreUu isif he proceeded to attack Achradina,25, 26.) Euryalus is also mentioned byat the time of the Athenian expedition, *>■still unfortified, as the point which anonifti-ascent to the heights of Epipolae (Toae.vii. 2); and it must indeed have always b*military point of view, the key of the whoa* 1Hence, the great care with which it was 1after the occupation of Epipolae by lbshad shown the paramount importance efsition in case of a siege. Themay, indeed, be in part the work ef