OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV dialogues, are the work of a man who was second in eru­dition to none of his contemporaries:" his birth and abi­lities had raised him to the office of prefect of the city,and he enjoyed the merit of renouncing the pomp andvanities of this world. His. ample patrimony was dedi­cated to the foundation of seven monasteries/ one in■Home/ and six in Sicily : and it was the wish of Gregorythat he might be unknown in this life, and glorious onlyin the next. Yet his devotion, and it might be sincere,pursued the path which would have been chosen by acrafty and ambitious statesman. The talents of Gregory,and the splendour which accompanied his retreat, ren­dered him dear and useful to the church'; and implicit.obedience has been always inculcated as the first duty of''a^monk. As soon as he had received the character ofdeacon, Gregory was sent to reside at the Byzantinecourt, the nuncio or minister of the apostolic see; andhe boldly assumed, in the name of St. Peter, a tone ofindependent dignity, which would have been criminal.and dangerous in. the most illustrious layman of the em­pire. He returned to Rome with a just increase of repu­tation, and after a short exercise of the monastic virtues,-he was dragged from the cloister to the papal throne, bythe unanimous voice of the clergy, the senate, and thepeople. He alone resisted, or seemed to resist, his ownelevation; and his humble petition, that Maurice wouldbe pleased to reject the choice of the Romans, could only■serve to exalt his character in the eyes of the emperor.and the public. When the fatal mandate was proclaimed, u Disciplines vero liberalibus, hoc est grammatica, rbetoricaj dialectica, ita a pue-ro est Institutus, ut quamvis eo tempore flbrerent adbac Romae studia literarum, fa­tten nulii in urbe ipsa secundus putaretur. Panl. Diaeon. in Vit. S. Gregor. c. 2. 1 The Benedictines (Vit. Greg. lib. 1. p. 205—208.) labour to reduce the monas­teries of Gregory within the rule of their own order; but as the questionis confessedto be doubtfulf it is clear that these powerful monks are in the wrong. See Butler'sLives of the Saints, vol. 3. p, 145. a work of merit; the sense and learning belong tothe author—his prejudices are those of his profession. 'J Monasterium Gregorianum in ejusdtm Beati Gregorii frdibus ad clivum Scauriprope ecclesiam S. S. Johnnnis et Pauli in honorem St. Andreae. (John in ViU Greg,lib. 1. c. 6. Greg. lib. 7. epist. 13.) This house and monastery were situate on theside of the Celian hill which fronts the Palatine; they are now occupied by the Ca-moldoli ; San Gregorio triumphs, and St. Andrew has retired to a small chapel. Nar­dit, Rema Antica, lib. 3. c. 6. p. 100. Descrizzione di Roma, tom 1. p. 442—446.