OCR Output 416 THE COMMONWEALTH AND ITS ECONOMY. [Book IV. State of manners. Increasedextrava­gance. Popularfestivals. 103. 99.93. 187. 175.152. Buildings.91. manic culture, whereas the latter has severed itself fromEuropean civilization. It is easy to form a general conception of the aspect whichwith such economic conditions the social relations must havepresented; but to follow out in detail the increase of luxury,of prices, of fastidiousness and frivolity is neither pleasantnor instructive. Extravagance and sensual enjoyment formedthe main object with all, among the parvenus as well asamong the Licinii and Metelli; not the polished luxurywhich is the acme of civilization, but that sort of luxurywhich had developed itself amidst the decaying Helleniccivilization of Asia Minor and Alexandria, which degradedeverything beautiful and significant to the purpose of deco­ration and studied enjoyment with a laborious pedantry, aprecise punctiliousness, rendering it equally nauseous to theman of fresh feeling as to the man of fresh intellect. As tothe popular festivals, the importation of transmarine beastsof prey prohibited in the time of Cato (ii. 412) was, appa­rently about the middle of this century, formally permittedanew by a decree of the burgesses proposed by GnaeusAufidius; the effect of which was, that animal hunts cameinto enthusiastic favour and formed a chief feature of theburgess-festivals. Several lions first appeared in the Somanarena about 651, the first elephants about 655; Sulla whenpraetor exhibited a hundred lions in 661. The same holdstrue of gladiatorial games. If the forefathers had pub­licly exhibited representations of great battles, their grand­children began to do the same with their gladiatorial games,and by means of such leading and public performances of theage to make themselves a laughing-stock to their descendants.What sums were spent on these and on funeral solemnitiesgenerally, may be inferred from the testament of MarcusJEmilius Lepidus (consul in 567, 579; + 602); he gaveorders to his children, forasmuch as true honour at lastconsisted not in empty pomp but in the remembrance ofpersonal and ancestral merits, to expend on his funeral notmore than 1,000,000 asses (£10,200). Luxury was on theincrease also as respected houses and gardens; the splendidtown house of the orator Crassus (+ 663), famous espe­cially for the old trees of its garden, was valued with thetrees at 6,000,000 of sesterces (£61,500) without them atthe half; while the value of an ordinary dwelling-housein Rome may be estimated perhaps at 60,000 sesterces