OCR Output mr. 1016.] 295 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. became weaker by the length of time, it wasnot sufficient to recall to his mind the institu­tions of his own country; so he still more andmore contemned his own God, and continuedto regard the gods that his marriages had in­troduced. Nay, before this happened, hesinned, and fell into an error about the ob­servance of the laws, when he made* theimages of brazen oxen, that supported thebrazen sea, and the images of lions about hisown throne; for these he made, although itwas not agreeable to piety so to do. Andthis he did notwithstanding that he had hisfather as a most excellent and domestic pat­tern of virtue; and knew what a gloriouscharacter he had left behind him, because ofhis piety towards God. Nor did he imitateDavid, although God had twice appeared tohim in his sleep, and exhorted him so to do.There came therefore a prophet to him, whowas sent by 'God, and told him, that hiswicked actions were not concealed fromGod; and threatened him that he should notlong rejoice at what he had done; that in­deed the kingdom should not be taken fromhim, while he was alive; because God hadpromised to his father David that he wouldmake him his successor; but that he wouldtake care that this should befall his son whenhe was dead. Not that he would withdrawall the people from him, but that he wouldgive ten tribes to a servant of his, and leaveonly two tribes to David's grandson for hissake, because he loved God; and for thesake of the city Jerusalem, wherein he wouldhave a temple. When Solomon heard this, he was grieved,and greatly confounded, upon this change of almost all that happiness which had madehim to be admired, into so bad a state. Norhad there much time passed after the prophethad foretold what was coming, before Godraised up an enemy against him, whose namewas Hadad ;f who took the following occa­sion of his enmity to him. He was a child ofthe stock of the Edomites, and of the bloodroyal. And when Joab, the captain of David'shost laid waste the land of Edom, and de­stroyed all that were men grown, and able tobear arms, for six months time, this Hadadfled away, and came to Pharaoh, king ofEgypt; who received him kindly, and as­signed him a house to dwell in, and a countryto supply him with food. And when he wasgrown up he loved him exceedingly; inso­much that he gave him his wife's sister,whose name was Tahpenes to wife, by whomhe had a son, who was brought up with theking's children. When Hadad heard inEgypt that both David and Joab were dead,he came to Pharaoh, and desired that hewould permit him to go to his own country.The king asked what it was that he wanted,and what hardships he had met with, that hewas so desirous to leave him? and when hewas often troublesome to him, and intreatedhim to dismiss him, he did not then do it.But at the time when Solomon's affairs beganto grow worse,* on account of his aforemen­tioned transgressions, and God's anger againsthim for the same; Hadad, by Pharaoh's per­mission, came to Edom, and when he was notable to make the people to forsake Solomon,(for it was kept under by many garrisons,and an innovation was not to be made withsafety,) he removed thence and came into * Josephus is here certainly too severe upon Solomon;who in making the cherubims, and these twelve brazenoxen, seems to have done no more than imitate the pat­terns left him by David, which were all given David bydivine inspiration. See my Description of the Temples,chap. x. And although God gave no direction for thelions that adorned his throne, yet does not Solomon seemtherein to have broken any law of Moses. For althoughthe Pharisees and later Rabbins, have extended thesecond commandment, to forbid the very making of anyimage, though without any intention to have it worshipped;yet do not I suppose that Solomon so understood it, northat it ought to be so understood. The making any otheraltar for worship, but that at the tabernacle, was equallyforbidden by Moses: Antiq. IV. 3. yet did not the twotribes and a half offend when they made an altar for amemorial only, Josh. xxii. Antiq. V. 1. t Hadad was a young prince of the royal family of idumea, who fled into Egypt when David conquered thatcountry. For David, having obtained a signal victoryunder the conduct of Abishai, who, at that time, com­manded in chief, sent Joab afterwards with an order to killall the males that should be found in the land. But Hadadhad escaped into Egypt, where, finding favour in the eyesof the king, he married his wife's sister, and there settled.But, after the death of David, he returned into Idumea,and gave Solomon no small molestation. Calmet's Com­mentary. B. J Since the beginning of Solomon's evil life and adver­sity was the time when Hadad, (who was born at leasttwenty or thirtv years before Solomon came to the crown,in the days of David,) began to give him disturbance, thisimplies that Solomon's evil life began early, and continuedvery long; which the multitude of his wives and concu­bines does also imply, I suppose he was not fifty yearsof age. j-