OCR Output CHAP. XLV1I. 23 he was attended by fifty Egyptian bishops, who expect­ed from their patriarch's nod the inspiration of the HolyGhost. He had contracted an intimate alliance withMemnon bishop of Ephesus. The despotic primate ofAsia disposed of the ready succours of thirty or fortyepiscopal votes: a crowd of peasants, the slaves of thechurch, was poured into the city, to support with blowsand clamours a metaphysical argument; and the peoplezealously asserted the honour of the Virgin, whose bodyreposed within the walls of Ephesus.' The fleet, whichhad transported Cyril from Alexandria, was laden withthe riches of Egypt: and he disembarked a numerousbody of mariners, slaves, and fanatics, enlisted with blindobedience under the banner of St. Mark and the motherof God. The fathers, and even the guards, of the coun­cil, were awed by this martial array; the adversaries ofCyril and Mary were insulted in the streets, or threat­ened in their houses; his eloquence and liberality madea daily increase in the number of his adherents; andthe Egyptian soon computed, that he might commandthe attendance and the voices of two hundred bishops."But the author of the twelve anathemas foresaw anddreaded the opposition of John of Antioch, who with asmall, though respectable, train of metropolitans anddivines, was advancing by slow journeys from the dis­tant capital of the east. Impatient of a delay, whichhe stigmatized as voluntary and culpable," Cyril an- * The Christians of the four first centuries were ignorant of the death and burialof Mary. The tradition of Ephesus is affirmed by the synod, (i»9a o StcXoyt; loiam;,1a1 .-, :-i;-W;- «»ftow; ,i ayia Mafia. Concil. torn. 3. p. 1102.) yet it has been super­seded by the claim of Jerusalem; and her empty sepulchre, as it was shewn to thepilgrims, produced the fable of her resurrection and assumption, in which theGreek and I .-.u m churches have piously acquiesced. See Baronius (Annal. Eccles.A. D. 48. no. 6, &c.) and Tillemont. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 1. p.467—477.) * The Acts of Chalcedon (Concil. torn. 4. p. 1405.1408.) exhibit a lively pictureof the blind, obstinate servitude of the bishops of Egypt to their patriarch. * Civil or ecclesiastical business detained the bishops at Antioch, till the eigh­teenth of May. Ephesus was at the distance of thirty days' journey; and ten daysmore may be fairly allowed for accidents and repose. The march of Xenophonover the same ground enumerates about two hundred and sixty parasangs orleagues; and this measure might be illustrated from ancient and modern itineraries,if I knew how to compare the speed of an army, a synod, and a caravan. Johnof Antioch is reluctantly acquitted by Tillemont himself. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 14.p. 286—289.)