OCR Output 160 THE RULE-OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. to support his son-in-law against Rome. The Koman army,•which was returning from the river Molochath, found itselfone evening surrounded of a sudden by immense masses ofMauretanian and Numidian cavalry; they were obliged tofight just as the divisions stood without forming in a properorder of battle or following any leading command, and hadto deem themselves fortunate when their sadly-thinned troopswere brought into temporary safety for the night on twohills not far remote from each other. But the culpable neg­ligence of the Africans intoxicated with victory wrested fromthem its consequences; they allowed themselves to be sur­prised in a deep sleep during the morning twilight by theKoman troops which had been in some measure reorganizedduring the night, and were fortunately dispersed. There­upon the Roman army continued its retreat in better orderand with greater caution; but it was yet again assailedsimultaneously on all the four sides and was in great danger,till the cavalry officer Lucius Cornelius Sulla first dispersedthe squadrons opposed to him and then, rapidly returningfrom their pursuit, threw himself also on Jugurtha andBocchus at the point where they in person pressed bard onthe rear of the Roman infantry. Thus this attack also wassuccessfully repelled; Marius brought his army back toCirta, and took up his winter quarters there (648-9).106-105. Strange as it may seem, we can yet understand whyNegotia- the Romans now, after king Bocchus had commenced thetions with war, began to make most zealous exertions to secure hisfriendship, which they had at first slighted and thereafter hadat least not specially sought; by doing so they gainedthis advantage, that no formal declaration of war took placeon the part of Mauretania. King Bocchus was not unwill­ing to return to his old ambiguous position: without dis­solving his agreement with Jugurtha or dismissing him, he'entered into negotiations with the Roman general respectingthe terms of an alliance with Rome. When they wereagreed or seemed to be so, the king requested that, for thepurpose of concluding the treaty and receiving the royalcaptive, Marius would send to him Lucius Sulla, who wasknown and acceptable to the king partly from his havingformerly appeared as envoy of the senate at the Maure­tanian court, partly from the commendations of the Maure­tanian envoys destined for Rome to whom Sulla hadrendered services on their way. Marius was in an awkward Bocchus.