OCR Output OTIS. 505 OXIA PALUS. (Vnjf. Am Til 675) and " nemerosus" (Lucan, vi.U7> It is now usually called Gvro, from a largenj»ci of this mm upon its sides; but its highestiij.mii, which lies to the east of this village, istansd Jmrorowii, and is 5669 feet above themrti J to? res. The subsoil of the whole range isof various and highly-inclined stratamixed with iron ore, amyanthe niul(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 17,tsI it. p. 330, seq.; Journal of Geoyr. Society,»d vi p.«.) OTIS, * town on the Euphrates below Babylon,v. *t*jve the commencement of the Babylonian«U-.be». (Plin. t. 36.) [V.] OITOBOCORBAS (' OrropoKopias, Ptol. vi.14. i§ 2. 3), the E. termination of the EtnodiH«A This is an example of a Sanscrit wordwars has been preserved in Ptolemy's geography,■ ■ a merely the Greek form of the Uttarakuru■Tdr * Ms Lib ha rata," or the highland of the happylat-i-, lirppTtvjreans, who lived there sheltered from■W aii Uacts, about whom, nnder the name ofArriroui, a* Pliny (vi. 20) relates, a certainAAfjartae wrote a book. Ammianus (xxiii. 6. §*>). oacymg Ptol?my, has Opurocakra, andwXwBKe (l 2) Ottorogviras. The sacred race of•as i.rinz in the desert of whom Ctesias (Ind. 8, ed. ti >peaks. belling to this imaginative geography,saw in the snow-capped summits of the IJittut-law •_•« chosen habitation of the Gods and of theAccording to Ptolemy (vi. 16. § 5, viii.IK. § 7) there was a people of the Ottorocorrae, withaf the same name, to the E. of the Casiior mountains of Ktuchgar; as the city is^ sf Pu4cxny s points of recordeii astronomicalhaving almost 14 hrs. 45 min. in itsdir. and being 7 hrs. E. of Alexandreia,L»t have been some real locality bearingsr. wbjrb most be assigned to E. Thibet., Iwl. Alt. toL i. pp. 511, 847.) [E. B. J.]CKU-AB A ( Velt on the river Traun), a town ofHaxs, en the road from Laureacutn to AugustatzwfemiB. (I tin. A nt. pp. 235, 258,27 7; Tab.r-e it La called Oviha.) It is said, accord-izncriptioo, to have been a Roman colonyisaxne of Aurelia Antoniniana. (Muchar,i_pp, 217,238,266, &c, 285, &c.) [L.S.] ,L [KCHDIAIIKS ] 1 PALLS, a lake which was formed by twoIf u,T> rivers, the Araxates (Jaxartes) andi (|a swlwsatiIj the Dermis of Ptolemy, vi. 12. §tat it*.* of the Sogdii Monies. (Amm. Marc.4. | 59.) This has been supposed to inti-tava^a very vaguely, the formation of theArai; bat there seems to be more reason forj; H with the lake of Karakoul to the|t W Bokkara, formed by the Zar-afshun or.g ~ river of Sanuzrcand, called alsoor mare correctly the river of the Kvli-wJ'Wk" This river is the l'olytinietus,rrordiag to Aristobulas (ap. Strab. xi. p.terwd Sogdian*, and was lost in the sands:Cartias (vii. 37) describes it as enteringawst eiasunvjing" its course under ground,really discharges itself into this lake,Cii-As call iMnghiz, the Turkish wordTut Greeks translated the indigenousvalley of which is one of the fourof the Persian poets—into that of Poly--an epithet which itit showers upon this region, the plain of Bokhara, famed for its giganticmelons. Ptolemy (vi. 12. § 3), if a correction bemade in his latitudes, which are uniformly put toofar forward to the N., gives the OxiANA I'ai.us('nfetoK^ A.i/1.) its true position lietween Zariaspaand Tribactra (Balkh and Byktmd). "From themountains of the Sogdii," says that geographer,"descend several rivers with no name, hut whichare confluents; one of these forms the Oxiana Pa­ins." The Sogdii Montes of Ptolemy are theAnferah mountains, by which the volcanic chainof the Thian-Schan is prolonged to the W. be­yond the N. and S. break of Bolor, and Kosuyrt.It is singular that Ptolemy does not connect thePolytimetus with his Oxian lake, but mentionsit (vi. 14. § 2) as one of the rivers dischargingitself into the Caspian between the Oxus andJaxartes. Pliny knows nothing of the Polyti­metus; and his Oxus Lacus (vi. 18, xxxi. 39;Solin. 49) is either the crescent-shaped lake ofSirikol, on the Bami Dunya, or u terraced roofof the world," near the pass of Pamir, from whichthe infant Amu [Oxus] issues, or some otherAlpine lake in the Bolor chain, from which thisriver derives most of its waters. The marshes ofthe Massagetae, into which the Araxes of Herodotus(i. 202) flows, with the exception of ono of its 40channels, indicate some Tague notion of the Sea ofAral. Strabo (xi. p. 531), when he blames theopinion of Herodotus and Cullisthcnes, about the 40channels of the Araxes, also (p. 512) asserts thatsome of the Massagetae live in marshes formed byrivers and in islands; adding (p. 573) that this dis­trict is flooded by the Araxes, which is divided intomany channels, of which only ono discharges itselfinto the sea of Hyrcania, while the others reachthe Northern Ocean. It is surprising that Strabodoes not give to this river of the country of the Mas­sagetae (which is undoubtedly the same as that ofwhich Herodotus speaks) the name of Jaxartes, whichhe mentions 60 often (pp. 507, 509, 511, 517, 518),and carefully distinguishes (pp. 527—529) fromthe Araxes of the Matieni, or Armenian river, whichwas known to llecataeus (/V. 170). Strabo (p.513) as well as Herodotus (i. 202) allude to thoseals, with the skins of which the natives clothethemselves; and it is well known that these animalsare found in the Sea of Aral as well as in the Cas­pian, and the lakes Baikul and Oron; for these undother reasons it would seem that both Herodotus andStrabo were acquainted with that series of lagoonsfrom which the Sea of Aral has been formed. Thiswas the opinion of Bayer (.-lent J'ttrop. vol. i. p.398) and of D Anville, who {Curie da Monde daGrecs et deg Roviains, 1763) designates the Aralby these words, " Paludes recipientes Araxen apudHerodotum." With Herodotus all this network oflagoons forms a basin of the interior, while Straboconnects it with the N. Ocean, directly, and notthrough the medium of the Hyrranian sea, and thechannel by which, according to the systematic cos-mogr.iphers of Alexandreia, this sea was united tothe Ocean. It must he observed that Strabo distin­guishes clearly between the single mouth of theAraxes of the Massagetae (Jaxartes) and the nume­rous channels which go directly to the N. Ocean.This statement acquires great importance as imply­ing tradition* of a channel of communication betweenthe waters of the Avid and the Icy Sea; a com­munication which probably took place along thatremarkable depression of 5° of longitude in length,