OCR Output CHAP. LI. 413 and drove the remnant of the Greeks to their boats, andthe isle of Rouda. The spot was afterward recom­mended to the conqueror by the easy communicationwith the gulf and the peninsula of Arabia: the remainsof Memphis were deserted; the tents of the Arabs wereconverted into permanent habitations: and the firstmosch was blessed by the presence of fourscore compa­nions of Mahomet."1 A new city arose in their camp onthe eastward bank of the Nile; and the contiguousquarters of Babylon and Fostat are confounded in theirpresent decay by the appellation of old Misrah or Cairo,of which they form an extensive suburb. But the nameof Cairo, the town of victory, more strictly belongs tothe modern capital, which was founded in the tenthcentury by the Fatimite caliphs. n It has gradually re­ceded from the river; but the continuity of buildingsmay be traced by an attentive eye from the monumentsof Sesostris to those of Saladin." Voluntary Yet the Arabs, after a glorious and profitablesubmis- enterprise, must have retreated to the desert, hadthe Copts they not found a powerful alliance in the heartac0b of the country. The rapid conquest of Alexan- A. D. ess. <l€r was assisted by the superstition and revolt ofthe natives; they abhorred their Persian oppressors, thedisciples of the Magi, who had burnt the temples ofEgypt, and feasted with sacrilegious appetite on theflesh of the god Apis.p After a period of ten centuries « Murtacli, Merveilles de 1'Egypte, 243 — 259. He expatiates on the subject withthe zeal and minuteness of a citizen and a bigot, and his local traditions have astrong air of truth and accuracy. » D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientate, p. 233. 0 The position of New and Old Cairo is -well known, and has been often de­scribed. Two writers, who were intimately acquainted with ancient and modernEgypt, have fixed, after a learned inquiry, the city of Memphis at Gitth, directlyopposite the Old Cairo. (Sicard, Nouveaux Memoircs des Missions du Levant,torn. 6. p. 5, 6. Shaw's Observations and Travels, p. 39o — 304.) Yet we may notdisregard the authority or the arguments of Pococlt, (vol. 1. p. 33—41.) Niebuhr,(Voyage, torn. 1. p. 77 — 106.) and, above all, of d'Anville, Description de 1'Egypte,p. 1ll, 112. 130—149.) who have removed Memphis towards the village of Mo-hannah, some miles farther to the south. In their heat, the disputants have forgotthat the ample space of a metropolis coven and annihilates the far greater part ofthe controversy. f See Herodotus, lib. 2. c. 27—29, /Elian Hist. Var. lib. 4. c, 8. Suidas in O^tf,