OCR Output 148 THE RULE OF THE RESTORATION. [Book IV. the protecting power to Adherbal to enter the city, andgenerally that he should suspend hostilities and accept theirmediation. Jugurtha summarily rejected both demands, andthe envoys hastily returned home—like boys, as they were—to report to the fathers of the city. The fathers listened tothe report, and allowed their countrymen in Cirta just tofight on as long as they pleased. It was not till, in the fifthmonth of the siege, a messenger of Adherbal stole throughthe entrenchments of the enemy and a letter of the king fullof the most urgent entreaties reached the senate, that thelatter roused itself and actually resolved, not to declare waras the minority demanded, but to send a new embassy—anembassy, however, headed by Marcus Scaurus, the greatconqueror of the Taurisci and the freedmen, the imposinghero of the aristocracy, whose mere appearance would sufficeto bring the refractory king to a different mind. In factJugurtha appeared, as he was bidden, at Utica to discuss thematter with Scaurus; endless debates were held; when atlength the conference was concluded, not the slightest resulthad been obtained. The embassy returned to Rome withouthaving declared war, and the king went back again to thesiege of Cirta. Adherbal found himself reduced to extremi­ties and despaired of Roman support; the Italians in Cirta,moreover, weary of the siege and firmly relying for their ownsafety on the terror of the Roman name, urged a surrender.So the town capitulated. Jugurtha ordered his adoptedbrother to be executed amid cruel tortures, and all the adultmale population of the town, Africans as well as Italians, to112. be put to the sword (642).Roman in- A cry of indignation rose throughout Italy. The mino-tervention. rity in the senate itself and every ODe out of the senate unani­mously condemned the government, with whom the honourand interest of the country seemed mere commodities forsale; loudest of all was the condemning voice of the mer­cantile class, which was most directly affected' by the sacri­fice of the Roman and Italian merchants at Cirta. It istrue that the majority of the senate still struggled; theyappealed to the class-interests of the aristocracy, and set inmotion all their contrivances of obstruction and delay, with aview to preserve still longer the peace which they loved. Butwhen Gaius Memmius, designated as tribune of the peoplefor next year, an active and eloquent man, brought thematter publicly forward and threatened in his capacity of