OCR Output DECLINE AND FALL [CHA1\ XLV1. the verge of the two great empires of the east, Mahometobserved with secret joy the progress of their mutual de­struction; and in the midst of the Persian triumphs, heventured to foretel, that before many years should elapse,victory would again return to the banners of the Romans.1At the time when this prediction is said to have beendelivered, no prophecy could be more distant from its ac­complishment, since the first twelve years of Heracliusannounced the approaching dissolution of the empire.If the motives of Chosroes had been pure and honour­able, he must have ended the quarrel with the death ofPhocas, and he would have embraced as his best ally, thefortunate African who had so generously avenged the in­juries of his benefactor Maurice. The prosecution of thewar revealed the true character of the barbarian; and thesuppliant embassies of Heraclius to beseech his clemency,that he would spare the innocent, accept a tribute, andgive peace to the world, were rejected with contemptu­ous silence or insolent menace. Syria, Egypt, and theprovinces of Asia, were subdued by the Persian arms,while Europe, from the confines of Istria to the long wallof Thrace was oppressed by the Avars, unsatiated withthe blood and rapine of the Italian war. They hadcoolly massacred their male captives in the sacred field ofPannonia; the women and children were reduced to ser­vitude, and the noblest virgins were abandoned to thepromiscuous lust of the barbarians. The amorous ma­tron who opened the gates of Friuli passed a short nightin the arms of her royal lover; the next evening Romil-da was condemned to the embraces of twelve Avars, andthe third day the Lombard princess was impaled in thesight of the camp, while the chagan observed with a cruelsmile, that such a husband was the fit recompense of her * See the thirtieth chapter of the Koran, entitled the Greeks, Our honest andlearned translator Sale, (p. 330, 331.) fairly states this conjecture, guess, wager, ofMahomet; but Bonlainvilliers, (p. 329—344.) with wicked intentions, labours to esrtabliah this evident prophecy of a future event, wliioh must, in his opinion, embarrassthe Christian polemics.