OCR Output 504 DISSERTATION II. 10. That the firm and just foundation of Abraham's faithand assurance in God for such a resurrection was this, besidesthe general consideration of the divine veracity, that duringthe whole time of his sojourning in strange countries, inCanaan and Egypt, ever since he had been called out ofChaldea or Mesopotamia, at seventy-five years of age,1 hehad had constant experience of a special, of an overruling,of a kind and gracious Providence over him, till this his125th year, which against all human views had continuallyblessed him and enriched him, and in his elder age had givenhim first Ishmael by Hagar, and afterward promised himIsaac to " spring2 from his own body now dead,3 and fromthe deadness of Sarah's womb, when she was past age, andwhen it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women,"4nnd had actually performed that and every other promise,how improbable soever that performance had appeared, hehad ever made to him, and this during fifty entire years to­gether ; so that although, at his first exit out of Chaldea crMesopotamia, he might have been tempted to " stagger atsuch a promise of God through unbelief,"5 yet might he nowafter fifty years constant experience he justly strong in faith,giving glory to God, as being fully persuaded, that what Godhad promised, the resurrection of Isaac, he was both able andwilling to perform. 11. That this assurance, therefore, that God, if he per­mitted Isaac to be slain, would infallibly raise him again fromthe dead, entirely alters the state of the case of Abraham'ssacrificing Isaac to the true God, from that of all otherhuman sacrifices whatsoever offered to false ones, all those-others being done without the least promise or prospect ofsuch a resurrection ; and this, indeed, takes away all pretenceof injustice in the divine command, as well as of all inhu­manity or cruelty in Abraham's obedience to it. I 12. That, upon the whole, this command to Abraham, andwhat followed upon it, looks so very like an intention of Godto typify or represent beforehand in Isaac, a beloved or only lGm. xii. 4. 'Rom. iv. 19. s Ileb. xi. 11. <Oen.ZTiii.il. 6 Rom. iv. 20, 21.