OCR Output 14 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. vince was reduced to obedience. The two cities ofTermantia and Numantia alone had not yet opened theirgates to the Romans; but in their case also a capitulationhad been almost concluded, and the greater part of theconditions had been fulfilled by the Spaniards. Whenrequired, however, to deliver up their arms, they were re­strained like Viriathus by their genuine Spanish pride in thepossession of a well-handled sword, and they resolved tocontinue the war under the daring Megaravicus. It seemedfolly: the consular army, the command of which was taken141. up in 613 by the consul Quintus Pompeius, was four timesas numerous as the whole population capable of bearingarms in Numantia. But the general, who was whollyignorant of war, sustained defeats so severe under the141. 140. walls of the two cities (613, 614), that he preferred atlength to procure by means of negotiations the peacewhich he could not compel. With Termantia a definitiveagreement must have taken place. In the case of theNumantines the Roman general liberated their captives, andsummoned the community under the secret promise of favour­able treatment to surrender to him at discretion. The Nu­mantines, weary of the war, consented, and the generalactually limited his demands to the smallest possiblemeasure. Prisoners of war, deserters, and hostages weredelivered up, and the stipulated sum of money was mostly139. paid, when in 615 the new general Marcus PopilliusLaenas arrived in the camp. As soon as Pompeius saw theburden of command devolve on other shoulders, he, with aview to escape from the reckoning that awaited him atRome for a peace which was according to Roman ideasdisgraceful, lighted on the expedient of not merely breaking,but of disowning his word; and when the Numantinescame to make their last payment, in the presence of theirofficers and his own he flatly denied the conclusion ofthe agreement. The matter was referred for judicial deci­sion to the senate at Rome. While it was discussed there,the war beforeiNumantia was suspended, and Laenasoccupied himself with an expedition to Lusitania where hehelped to accelerate the catastrophe of Viriathus, and witha foray against the Lusones, neighbours of the Numan­tines. When at length the decision of the senate arrived,its purport was that the war should be continued. Thestate was thus ready to share in the knavery of Pompeius.