OCR Output 306 THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. couraged them on the contrary " to force their landing," though they dashed their vessels to pieces ;" begging theconfederates " in this juncture not to refuse bestowing their" ships on the Lacedaemonians in lieu of the great services" they had done them, but to run them ashore, and landing at" all adventures to seize the enemy and the fortress." Inthis manner he Animated others, and having compelled hisown pilot to run the vessel ashore he was at once upon thestairs, and endeavouring to get down was beat back by theAthenians. After many wounds received, he fainted withloss of blood ; and falling down upon the gunnel, his shieldtumbled over into the water. It was brought ashore andtaken up by the Athenians, who afterwards made it a part ofthe trophy, which they erected for this attack. The others indeed with equal spirit endeavoured, but yetcould not possibly land, as the ground was difficult of access,and the Athenians stood firm, and no where at all gave way.Such now was the strange reverse of fortune, that the Athe­nians upon land, upon Laconic land, beat off the Lacedaemo­nians who were fighting from the water; and the Lacedaemo­nians from ships were endeavouring a descent upon their ownnow hostile territory against Athenians. For at this periodof time it was the general opinion, that those were landmen,and excelled most in land engagements, but that these wereseamen, and made the best figure at sea. The attack was continued the whole day and part of then^xt before it was given up. On the third day, they de­tached some vessels to Asine to fetch timber for engines,hoping by them to accomplish the taking of the wall adja­cent to the harbour, which though of a greater height yetmight easier be approached by sea. During this pause, forty sail of Athenians came up fromZacynthus. This fleet had been enlarged by the accessionof some guard-ships from off the station of Naupactus, andfour sail of Chians. These no sooner discovered the mainland about Pylus and the island Sphacteria to be full of