OCR Output VINDIXUM. 1311 VrXTIUM. Gallia, is mentioned in the Maritime Itin. after Ux-urU and Sin* or Sena. Miiltllo age documentsprove that the island of Belle-lie was once named Gut-del. Mini this is the name Vindilis, the interchangeof Go, or G and W or V being common. [Vapix-ci.jc] Though this is the only evidence, it is suffi­cient, for the names agree, and Belle-ile is not likelyto hare been omitted in the Itin., when smallerislands along the coast are mentioned. [G. L.]VIXDINUM. [Suimdixum.]VINDIUS MONS (OtfiroW Spot, Ptol. vii. 1.§ 28), a chain of mountains in Hindustan, extendingXK. and SW. nearly, along the N. bank of theNamadus (now Nerbudda), in lat. 21°. long. 117°30'. They are now known by the name of the Vtndhi/aMl., and form the principal watershed of the Ner-budda and TapH, which flow into the Indian Ocean,a little to the N. of Bombay, and of the Sonne and A n-tiomnti, which are great tributaries of the Ganges. [V.]Vl'NDlUS or VINNIUS (Otbfta* «poi, Ptol. ii.6. § 21), a mountain in Hispania Tarraconensis,which ran in a W. direction from the Saltus Vas-••"Hum and formed the boundary between the Can-Ubri and the Astures. It formed, therefore, theW. portion of the Cantabrian chain. The Iberushad its sooroe in it. [T. H. I > j VINDOBALA,a station on the wall of Hadrian inBritain, which was garrisoned by the Cohors I. Frixa-gorum. Camden (p. 1090) identifies it with Walls-End; whilst Henley (p. 105) and others take it tobe Kutchetler. (Not. Imp.; Geo. Rav. r. 31.)[Vau.uk Romaxim.] [T.H. D.] VINDOBO'NAor YEXDOBOXA (OihrJoiWa:IVeaaa), a town on the Danube in Upper Pannonia,was originally a Celtic place, but afterwards becamea Roman inunicipiam, as we learn from inscriptions.(Grater, InscripL p. 4.) This town, which accord-ing to Ptolemy (ii. 15. § 3) for some time borethe name of Julioboaa ('IouAio'sWa), was situatedat the foot of lions Cetius, on the road runningalong the right bank of the river, and in the courseof time becjune one of the most important militarykUtiona on the Danube; for after the decay of Car-nunturn it was not only the station of the principalpart of the Danubian fleet, but also of the Legiox. Gemina. (It. Ant. pp. 233,248,261,266; Tab.rent.; Aurel. Vict, de Caet. 16; Agathem. ii. 4;1.inland. Get. 50, where it is railed Vindotnina.)Vindobona suffered severely during the invasion of:he Uuns under Attila, yet continued to be aloarisbing place, especially under the dominion ofhe Longobards. (Jornand. /. c) It is well knownhat the emperor M. Aurelius died at Yindobona.Aurel. VicU de Can. 16, EpiU 18; cnmp. Fischer,Hrevit Sotitta Urbis Vindobonae, Vindobouae, 1767;k on Hormayr, Gcsckichte Wiem, i. p. 43, full.;iluclur. Norikm, vol. i. p. 166, foil.) [L. S.] VINDOGLA'DIA, a place in Britannia Romana,•mbably in the territory of the Belgae on the road fromr'enta Bclgarum to Isca Dumnoniorum. (/tin. Ant.ip. 483, 486.) The Geogr. liar. (v. 31) calls it Bin-l^ladia- Sime place it at Pentridge, near Oldirrum, where are remains of Roman fortification*,.'aroden, however (p. 61). identifies it with Winburn,jtd Honley (p. 472) with Cranbunt. [T. II. D.]VlNI>OLAXA, a station on UadriAn'a liuundaryrail in Britain, where the Cohort lv. Gallorum lay1 garrison. (Not. Imp.) By the Geo. Rav. (v. 31): u> railed Vindnlanda. Camden (p. 1087) identifies: with Old Winchester, Hondey (p. 89, &c.) withMile Ciesters. [Vallum Rumaxum.] [T.U.D.J VIXDOMAGUS (OinMnayos), in Gallia Narbo-nensis, one of the two cities which Ptolemy (ii. 10.§ 10) assigns to the Volcae Arecomici. There isnothing to determine the jKeition of Vindomagus,except the fact that there is a town Vigan, wheresome remains have been found. Vigan is NW.of Nismes, and on the southern border of the Ce-vennes. [G. L.] VINDOMIS or VINDOMUM, a place belongingprobably to the Belgae in Britannia Romana on theroad from Venta Belgarum to Calleva. (Itin. Ant.pp. 483, 486.) Horaley (p. 459) identifies it withFarnham ; others have sought it at E. Sherborne,and at Whitchurch. [T. H. D.] VINDOMORA, a town of the Brigantes in theN. part of Britannia Romana. (Itin. Ant. p. 464.)It is commonly identified with Ebchester at theNW. boundary of Durham (Horsley, p. 398), wherethere are remains of a fort, and where Roman anti­quities have been discovered. (Cf. Camden, p. 1086;rhilot. Tram. No. 278.) [T. H. D.] VINDONISSA, in Gallia, is mentioned by Tacitus(/Kit. iv. 61, 70). It was the station of the twenty -first legion, a. D. 71, which entered Rhaetia fromVindonissa. The place is Wmdisch, in the Swisscanton of Aargau, near the junction of the Aurtlicuss, and Limmath. Vindonissa was once a largeplace, and many Roman remains and coins have beenfound there. In the Bdrlisgrube there are traces ofan amphitheatre, and on the road from Brameck-berg to Kvnigifelden the remains of an aqueductThe name of the xxi. Legion has been discovered ininscriptions found at Windiich. Near Windisch isthe former convent and monastery of Kunigi/tlden,where some of the members of the Habsburg familyare buried. Several *Roman roads help to fix theposition of Vindonissa. The Table places it atthe distance of xxiL from Augusta lUuracorum(Augst) [Augusta Rauracokum] ; and anotherroad went from Vindonissa past Vitodurum [Vito-dubum] to Arbor Felix in Rhaetia. Vindonissa isnamed Vindo in a Panegyric of Constantine by Eu-menius, and Castrum Vindonissense in Maxima Se-quanorum in the Xotitia of the Gallic Provinces.When Christianity was established in these parts,Vindonissa was the see of the first bishopric, whichwas afterwards removed to Constant. In thethird and fourth ceuturies Vandals and Alemanoidamaged the town. The Uuns afterwards ravagedVindonissa, and Childebert king of the Franks de­stroyed it in the sixth century. (D'Anville, Notice,J-c.; F.rnesti, Note on Tacit Hist ir. 70; Neige-banr. Neuestes Gcmulde der Schweiz.') [G. L.] VIXIOLAE, a place of the Oretani in UispaniaTarraconensis, between Acatucci and Mentesa Bastiu.(Itin. Ant. p. 402.) Variously identified with IIinn.jares and as a place on the river Borneo. [T. 11. D.J VIXXIUS. [VixDtua.] VINO'VIA (in Pto|. OiuWior, ii. 3. § 16), ntown of the Brigantes in the N. of Britanm aRomana. (Itin. Ant. p. 465.) Now Binchejl, rnear Bishop Auckland, with remains of Romanwalls and other antiquities. (Camden, p. 945.) Inthe Not. Imp. and by the Geogr. Rav. (v. 31) it iscalled Vinonia. [T. H. D.] Vl'NTIUM (Oblrrwr: Veuce). in Gallia Xar.boncnsis, the chief town of the Xerusii. [Xkku--ii I Inscriptions have been found at Vence withthe words civit. vixt.; and in the Xotitia of theGallic Provinces it is placed in the Alpes Man-tiiuae under the name of Ciritas Vintiensium or