OCR Output 26 THE SUBJECT COUNTRIES. [Book IV. Declaration The Romans, who had carefully abstained from preventingof war by the war itself by seasonable interposition, had now what theyme# wished; namely, a serviceable pretext for war—for the Car­thaginians had certainly now transgressed the stipulations ofthe treaty, that they should not wage war against the alliesof Rome, or beyond their own bounds (ii. 187, 200)—and anantagonist already beaten beforehand. The Italian contin­gents were summoned to Rome, and the ships wereassembled; the declaration of war might issue at anymoment. The Carthaginians made every effort to avert theimpending blow. Hasdrubal and Carthalo, the leaders ofthe patriot party, were condemned to death, and an embassywas sent to Rome to throw the responsibility on them. Butat the same time envoys from TTtica, the second city of theLibyan. Phoenicians, arrived there with full powers to sur­render their community wholly to the Romans; comparedwith such obliging submissiveness, it seemed almost aninsolence that the Carthaginians had rested content withordering, unbidden, the execution of their most eminentmen. The senate declared that the excuse of the Cartha­ginians was found insufficient; to the question, what in thatcase would suffice, the reply was given that the Cartha­ginians knew that themselves. They might, no doubt, haveknown what the Romans wished; but yet it seemed inopossible to believe, that the last hour of their loved native cityhad really come. Once more Carthaginian envoys—onthis occasion thirty in number and with unlimited powers-were sent to Rome. When they arrived, war was already149. declared (beginning of 605), and the double consular armyhad embarked. Yet they even now attempted to dispel thestorm by complete submission. The senate Replied thatRome was ready to guarantee to the Carthaginian com­munity its territory, its municipal freedom and its laws, itspublic and private property, provided that it would fur­nish to the consuls who had just departed for Sicily withinthe space of a month at Lilybaeum 300 hostages from thechildren of the leading families, and would fulfil the furtherorders which the consuls in conformity with their instruc­tions should give forth. The reply has been called ambi­guous; but very erroneously, as even at the time clear­sighted men among the Carthaginians themselves pointedout. The circumstance that everything which they couldask was guaranteed with the single exception of the city,and that nothing was said as to stopping the embarkation of