OCR Output CHAP. XLII.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 22$ tempted to seduce the fidelity of Almondar, while hecalled from the extremities of the earth, the nations of-/Ethiopia and Scythia to invade the dominions of his ri­val. But the aid of such allies was distant and precari­ous, and the discovery of this hostile correspondencejustified the complaints of the Goths and Armenians,who implored, almost at the same time, the protectionof Chosroes. The descendants of Arsaces, who werestill numerous in Armenia, had been provoked to assertthe last relics of national freedom and hereditary rank;and the ambassadors of Vitiges had secretly traversed theempire to expose the instant, and almost inevitable, dan­ger of the kingdom of Italy. Their representations wereuniform, weighty, and effectual. "We stand beforeyour throne, the advocates of your interest as well as ofour own. The ambitious and faithless Justinian aspiresto be the sole master of the world. Since the endlesspeace which betrayed the common freedom of mankind,that prince, your ally in words, your enemy in actions,has alike insulted his friends and foes, and has filled theearth with blood and confusion. Has he not violatedthe privileges of Armenia, the independence of Colchos,and the wild liberty of the Tzanian mountains? Hashe not usurped, with equal avidity, the city of Bosphoruson the frozen Maeotis, and the vale of palm-trees on theshores of the Red sea? The Moors, the Vandals, theGoths, have been successively oppressed, and each nationhas calmly remained the spectator of their neighbour'sruin. Embrace, O king! the favourable moment; theeast is left without defence, while the armies of Justinianand his renowned general are detained in the distant re­gions of the west. If you hesitate and delay, Belisariusand his victorious troops will soon return from the Tiberto the Tigris, and Persia may enjoy the wretched conso­lation of being the last devoured."11 By such arguments, P I have blended, in a short speech, the two orations of the Arsacides of Armeniaand the Gothic amhassadors. Procopius, in his public history, feels, and makes usfeel that Justinian was the true author of the war. (Persic lib. 2. c. 2. 3.)