OCR Output 400 DECLINE AND FALL [CHAP. XLV. The um- When a public quarrel is envenomed by private iniu- hards and . , . f • , , • • . i • Avars <ie- nes,a blow that is not mortal or decisive can be productivek'ngViId onty of a short truce, which allows the unsuccessful com-ki*gdom batant to sharpen his arms for a new encounter. The of the Ge- r A dD 5C6 strenStn o^ Alboin had been found unequal to the grati-'fication of his love, ambition, and revenge: he conde­scended to implore the formidable aid of the chagan;and the arguments that he employed are expressive of theart and policy of the barbarians. In the attack of theGepidas, he had been prompted by the just desire of ex­tirpating a people, whom their alliance with the Romanempire had rendered the common enemies of the nations,and the personal adversaries of the chagan. If the forcesof the Avars and the Lombards should unite in thisglorious quarrel, the victory was secure, and the rewardinestimable: the Danube, the Hebrus, Italy, and Con­stantinople, would be exposed, without a barrier, to theirinvincible arms. But if they hesitated or delayed to pre­vent the malice of the Romans, the same spirit whichhad insulted, would pursue the Avars to the extremityof the earth. These specious reasons were heard by thechagan with coldness and disdain: he detained the Lom­bard ambassadors in his camp, protracted the negotiation,and by turns alleged his want of inclination, or his wantof ability, to undertake this important enterprise. Atlength he signified the ultimate price of his alliance, thatthe Lombards should immediately present him with thetithe of their cattle; that the spoils and captives shouldbe equally divided; but that the lands of the Gepidaeshould become the sole patrimony of the Avars. Suchhard conditions were eagerly accepted by the passions ofAlboin; and as the Romans were dissatisfied with theingratitude and perfidy of the Gepidae, Justin abandonedthat incorrigible people to their fate, and remained thetranquil spectator of this unequal conflict. The despairof Cunimund was active and dangerous. He was inform­ed that the Avars had entered his confines; but on the