OCR Output CHAPJ 63. ROMAN HISTORY. 295 from their allies, as in the camp at the Algidus, but thebooty which had been taken from themselves, in ravag­ing their own lands. For both these victories, gained over diffefeiHeneroieSjthe senate, out of a grudge to the consuls, decreed onlyone day of supplication and public thanksgiving; butthe people, by their own authority, acquitted thejnselvesof the same duty, the day following, with more pompand solemnity, and with a much greater concourse ofpeople, than the day before. The consuls, by concert,came to Rome, the one on the first, the othef on the se­cond of these days, and assembled^the senate in the Cam­pus Martius, where they were rendering an account ofthe success of the. campaign. The principal senatorscomplained, that they were assembled in the midst of thesoldiers, on purpose to over-awe them; and the consuls,to save reflections, adjourned it to the Flaminian Mea­dows, "where a temple of Apollo now stands, aml at thattime called the Circus Apollinaris. Here they were re­fused a triumph, by almost the unanimous voice of tin;senate; upon which, L. Icilius the tribune, carried it be­fore the people. Many of the senators appeared on theside of opposition, but none more warmly than C. Clau^iiios, who exclaimed against it to the following purpose:It is not over the'enemy, but overthe senate, that theconsuls would triumph : it is for a gratification of somesignal service done the tribune, and not an honourablereward of their bravery, that they sue for. To submitthe merit of a triumph to the judgment of the people,had no precedent, as that had always been a preroga­tive of the senate alone. The privileges of that highorder had never been abridged, even by their kings.Why then should the tribunes pretend^ to engross allpower to themselves, even to the excluding a councilof state? In short, the state will never be at peace, novenjoy liberty, till the two orders forbear to encroachupon the rights and privileges of each other." Manymore of the old senators spoke to the same effect, but thetribunes unanimously agreed to the motion. This wasthe first triumph voted by the people, without aof the senate.