OCR Output Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 201 CHAP. IV. Hffti) Alexander honoured Jonathan after an extraordinary man­ner, and how Demetrius, the son of Demetrius, overcame Alex­ander, and made a league of friendship with Jonathan. § 1. .DEMETRIUS being thus slain in battle, as we haveabove related, Alexander took the kingdom of Syria; andwrote to Ptolemy Philometer, and desired his daughter in mar­riage; and said, it was but just that he should be joined in af­finity to one that had now received the principality of his fore­fathers, and had been promoted to it by God's providence, andhad conquered Demetrius, and that was on other accounts notunworthy of being related to him. Ptolemy received this pro­posal of marriage gladly; and wrote him an answer, salutinghim on account of his having received the principality of hisforefathers; and promising him that he would give him hisdaughter in marriage; and assured him that he was coming tomeet him at Ptolemais, and desired that he would there meethim, for that he would accompany her from Egypt so far, andwould there marry his child to him. When Ptolemy had writtenthus, he came suddenly to Ptolemais, and brought his cousinCleopatra along with him: and as he found Alexander therebefore him, as he desired him to come, he gave him his child inmarriage, and for her portion gave her as much silver and goldas became such a king to give. 2. When the wedding was over, Alexander wrote to Jona­than the high priest, and desired him to come to Ptolemais.So when he came to these kings, and had made them mag­nificent presents, he was honoured by them both. Alexan­der compelled him also to put off his own garment, and totake a purple garment, and made him sit with him in histhrone; and commanded his captains that they should go withhim into the middle of the city, and proclaim, that it wasnot permitted to any one to speak against him, or to give himany disturbance. And when the captains had thus done, thosethat were prepared to accuse Jonathan, and who bore him ill-will, when they saw the honour that was done him by procla­mation, and that by the king's order, ran away, and were afraidlest some mischief should befall them. Nay, king Alexander wasso very kind to Jonathan, that he set him down as the principalof his friends. 3. But then, upon the hundred and sixty-fifth year, Deme­trius, the sen of Demetrius, came from Crete with a greatnumber of mercenary soldiers, which Lasthenes, the Cretian,