OCR Output THKACIA. 1177 THRACIA. nverwd it liave been almost invariably engaged inulitary enterprises, and too much occupied withtar immeiiiate object* to bave either opportunityr inclination, even had they possessed the necessary■;J locations, to observe and describe the natural iiares of the country. What adds to the difficultyf ilie writer on the classical geography of Thrace':hf unfortunate loss of the whole of that por- ■ii of the seventh book of Strabo which was de-oted to the subject. Strabo, in several parts ofa work, treats incidentally of Thrace: but this is j--or substitute for the more systematic account of which ha* perished, and of which little more thantable of contents has been preserved in the meagreAhtM which alone remains of it. In modern times, several travellers have en-iTmired, with various degrees of success, to explore(T-tiDlnr; and some of them have published the<<ult» uf their investigations; but it is evident fromnr very frequent disagreement as to the sites of<■ puces which Uiey attempt to identify with thosentuawd in ancient writers, that as yet the neces-rr ilaia have not been obtained ; and the Itincr-instead of assisting, not seldom add to theL^oJtv of the task, and render its accomplishmenthopeless. Moreover, the extent of countryAmitml by these travellers was very limited. M The •jiUioous region of Khodope, bounded on the west tlte Strrmon. on the north and east by the Hcbrus,d'« the south by the Aegean, is a terra incognita,u-pl the few Grecian colonies on the coast. Very few"^tars have passed along or described the southerntine* ruad ; while the region in the interior, apart''u the highroad, was absolutely unexplored until the* of 11 Viquesnel in 1847. (Grote, L c.) iht results of this traveller's researches have nott, w« believe, appeared in a complete and connected-L His reports to the French minister by whom *ks commissioned are published in the work**iy referred to; hut most of them are mere out-ea, written on the sjot from brief notes. They•Uio much tliat is valuable and interesting; butu*e except their author could make full use of*e ; aad it is to be hoped that he may be able toffoy the materials so ably collected in the corn­el j.»n of a work that would dispel much of the-arity that at present rests upon the country. V^uesoel was engaged little more than a year inrare, a period evidently insufficient for its completeJuration ; accordingly he seems to have devoted ]miripal attention to its geology, especially of the [(Maintain systems, above all in the district ofadope. \ccurding to Ami Bone's chart of the geologicalkctnre uf the globe, copied in Johnstons Physicallas, the three principal geological formations inrace are: (l)the crystalline schistous, com pre-'ling all the granitoid rocks ; this occupies thejwruoa of the country, and a small district on theaine, immediately S. of the Harm us: (2) theiarr, extending over the basin of the Hcbrus:the primary stratifications, or the transitionf*. including the carboniferous formations; this-f-ies Lhe SE. part of the country, and a region S.tiit? Ha em us, and W. of the tertiary formationmentioned. Near the sources of the Bourghaz,oesfiel found volcanic rocks (p. 213).I be surface of Thrace is, on the whole, decidedlymtaioons, the vast plains spoken uf by Virgilsav xu. 13) belonging to Moesia. From the great.-e of Uaemus, three chains of mountains branch off towards the SE., and with their various rami­fications occupy nearly the entire country. Themust westerly of these begins at the NW. extremityof the boundary line, and soon separates into twoalmost parallel ranges, the Pangaeus and Ithodope,which are separated from each other by the riverNest us ; the former filling up the whole space be­tween that river and the Strymon, the latter thedistrict E. of the Nest us and S\\\ of the Hebrus.both I'angaeus and Khodope extend down to thecoast of the Aegean, and the latter is continuedparallel to it as far K. as the Hebrus. The centraloffshoot of the Haemus branches off between thesources of the Hebrus and the Tonius, and extendsto their junction near Hadrianopolis, The mosteasterly chain diverges from the Haemus about 100miles W. of the Euxine, to the W. shore of which itis nearly parallel, though it gradually approachesnearer to it from N. to S.: it extends as far as theBosporus, and with its lateral offshoots occupiesnearly the whole country between the E. tributariesof the Hebrus and the Euxine. The central and E.ranges appear to have had no general distinctivenames; at least we are not aware that any occur inancient writers : the modern name of the most east­erly is the Strandja-Dagh. A continuation of tliisrange extends along the shore of the Propontis, andis now called the Ttkir-Dagh. The loftiest peaks, among these mountains, belongto Khodope, and attain an elevation of about 8500feet (Viquesnel, p. 325); the summits of theStrandja-Vagk, are 2600 feet high (Id. p.314);those uf the Tthir-Dagh, 2300 (Id. p. 315); theother mountains ure from 2000 to 600 feel inheight (Id. pp. 314, 315). The Haemus is notmore than 4000 feet high, in that portion of it whichbelongs to Thrace. It is obvious from these measure­ments that the statements of some of the ancientsI that the summits of the Tliracian mountains were| covered with eternal snow (ifyntcmv opto. r^o'cPTO,I Horn. Ji xiv. 227), and that from the highest peak\ of the Haemus the Adriatic and the Euxine couldbe seen, are mere fancies. Strabo(vii. pp. 313.317)points out the inaccuracy of this notion. An in­teresting account is given by Livy (xl. 21, 22) ofthe ascent of Haemus by Philip V., who shared inthe popular belief in question. Livy states plainly'enough his conviction that Philip's labour, which was} far from slight, was thrown away ; but he and hisI attendants were prudently silent upon the subject,not wishing, says Livy, to be laughed at for theirpains. Yet Florus, who alludes to the same cir­cumstance (ii. 12), but makes Perseus theinountain-i climber, assumes that the king's object was accom-I plished, and that the bird's-eye view of his domi­nions, obtained from the mountain top, assisted himin forming a plan for the defence of his kingdom,with reference to his meditated war with Rome,j Mela too repeats the erroneous statement (ii. 2).The main direction of the rivers of Thrace is fromN. to S., as might be inferred from the foregoing de-; script ion of its mountain system. The Strymon formsits \V. boundary. In the lower part of its course,it expands to a considerable width, and was calledLake Cercinitis, into which Mowed a smaller river, theAngites (Herod, vii. 113) ; next, towards the E.fcomes the Nestus ; then, in succession, the Travus,which falls into Lake Bistouis, the Schoenus, theHebrus, the principal river of Thrace, and lastlythe Melas. All these rivers fall into the Aegean.Several small streams flow into the Hellespont and