OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 25 might revere the name of their gracious benefactor. ( 1) Almost every saint in thecalendar acquired the honours of a temple; almost every city of the empire obtain­ed the solid advantages of bridges, hospitals, and aqueducts; but the severe libe­rality of the monarch disdained to indulge his subjects in the popular luxury ofbaths and theatres. While Justinian laboured for the public service, he was notunmindful of his own dignity and ease. The Byzantine palace, which had beendamaged by the conflagration, was restored with new magnificence; and some no­tions may be conceived of the whole edifice, by the vestibule or hall, which, fromthe doors perhaps, or the roof, was surnamed choice, or the brazen. The domeof a spacious quadrangle was supported by massy pillars; the pavement and wallswere incrusted with many coloured marbles—the emerald green of Laconia; thefiery red, and the white Phrygian stone intersected with veins of a sea-green hue:the Mosaic paintings of the dome and sides represented the glories of the Africanand Italian triumphs. On the Asiatic shore of the Propontis, at a small distanceto the east of Chalcedon, the costly palace and gardens of Herxum(2) were pre­pared for the summer residence of Justinian, and more especially Theodora. Thepoets of the age have celebrated the rare alliance of nature and art, the harmonyof the nymphs of the groves, the fountains, and the waves; yet the crowd of at­tendants who followed the court complained of their inconvenient lodgings, (3) andthe nymphs were too often alarmed by the famous Porphyrio, a whale of ten cu­bits in breadth, and thirty in length, who was stranded at the mouth of the riverSangaris, after he had infested more than half a century the seas of Constantino- The fortifications of Europe and Asia were multiplied by Justinian; but the repe­tition of those timid and fruitless precautions exposes to a philosophic eye the de­bility of the empire. (5) From Belgrade to the Euxine, from the conflux of theSave to the mouth of the Danube, a chain of above fourscore fortified places wasextended along the banks of the great river. Single watch-towers were changedinto spacious citadels; vacant walls, which the engineers contracted or enlargedaccording to the nature of the ground, were filled with colonies or garrisons; astrong fortress defended the ruins of Trajan's bridge,(6) and several military sta­tions affected to spread beyond the Danube the pride of the Roman name. Butthat name was divested of its terrors; the barbarians, in their annual inroads, passed,and contemptuously repassed, before these useless bulwarks; and the inhabitantsof the frontiers, instead of reposing under the shadow of the general defence, werecompelled to guard, with incessant vigilance, their separate habitations. The soli­tude of ancient cities was replenished; the new foundations of Justinian acquired,perhaps too hastily, the epithets of impregnable and populous; and the auspiciousplace of his own nativity attracted the grateful reverence of the vainest of princes.Under the name of Justiniana flrima, the obscure village of Tauresium oecamethe seat of an archbishop and a prefect, whose jurisdiction extended over sevenwarlike provinces of Illyricum,(7) and the corrupt appellation of Giustendil stillindicates, about twenty miles to the south of Sophia, the residence of a Turkishsanjak.(8) For the use of the emperor's countrymen, a cathedral, a palace, and (l) Justinian once gave forty-five centenaries of gold (180,000?.,) for the repairs of Antioch after the earth­quake (John Malala, torn. ii. p. 146—149.) (3) For the Herasum, the palace of Theodora, see Gyllius de Bosphoro Thracio (lib. iii. c. 11.,) Aleman.(Not. ad Anecdot. p. BO, 81. who quotes several epigrams of the Aulhology.,) and Ducange (C. P. Chtist. lib.vi. c. 13. p. 175,176.) (3) Compare, in the Edifices (lib. i. c. 11.,) and in the Anecdotes (c. 8—15.,) the different styles of adulationand malevolence: stripped of the paint, or cleansed from the dirt, the object appears to be the same. (4) Procopius, lib. viii. 29. most probably a stranger and wanderer, as the Mediterranean does not breedwhales. Balsenz quoque in nostra maria penetrant (Plin. Hist. Natur. ix. 2.) Between the polar circle andthe tropic, the cetaceous animals of the ocvan grow to the length of fifty, eighty, or one hundred feet. (Hist,des Voyages, torn. xv. p. 289. Pennants British Zoology, vol. iii. p. 35.) (5) Montesquieu observes (torn. iii. p. 503. Considerations sur la Grandeur et la Decadence des Romains, c.20.,) that Justinian's empire was like France in the time of the Norman inroads—never so weak as when eve­ry village was fortified. (6) Procopius affirms (lib. iv. e. 6.,) that the Danube was stopped by the ruins of the bridge. Had Apollodo-rus, tbe architect, left a description of his own work, the fabulous wonders of Dion Cassius (lib. lxviii. p. 1129.)would have been corrected by the genuine picture. Trajan's bridge consisted of twenty or twenty-two stonepiles with wooden arches; the river is shallow, tbe current erentle, and the whole interval no more than four hun- • deed and forty-three (Reimar ad Dion, from Marsigli) or five hundred and fifteen toitet (d'Anville GeographieAneienne, torn. i. p. 305.) (7) Of the two Dacias, MedUerranea and RipetuUt Dardania, Prsevalitana, the second Msesia, and the secondMacedonia. See Justinian (Novell. 11.,) who speaks of his castles beyond the Danube, and of homines semperbellicis stldoribus inhserentes. (8) See d'Anville (Memoirea de l'Academie, &c. torn. xxxi. p. 289,290.)) Rycaut (Present State of the Turk­ish Empire, p. 97. 316.) Marsigli (Stato Militare del Imperio Ottomane, p. 130.) The sanjak of Giustrndil isone of the twenty under the beglerbeg of Komelia, and his district maintains forty-eight zaims and five hun­dred and eighty-three timarioti. Vol.. III. 1