OCR Output 10 DEDICATION. health, and contenting myself with this reward, that while we aremusing on these subjects (according to the remark of Varro), weare adding to the length of our lives; for life properly exists inbeing awake. In consideration of these circumstances and these difficulties, Idare promise nothing; but you have done me the most essentialservice, in permitting me to inscribe my work to you. Nor doesthis merely give a sanction to it, but it determines its value; forthings are often conceived to be of great value, solely because theyare consecrated in temples. I have given a full account of all your family—your father,yourself, and your brother, in a history of our own times, begin­ning where Aufidius Bassus concludes. You will ask, Where it is?It has been long completed, and its accuracy confirmed,1* other­wise I had determined to commit the charge of it to my heirs, lestI should have been suspected, during my life-time, of havingbeen unduly influenced by ambition. By this means I confer anobligation on those who occupy the same ground with myself; andalso on posterity, who, I am aware, will contend with me as I havedone with my predecessors. You may judge of my disposition from my having inserted inmy book the names of the authors that I have consulted. For Iconceive it to be courteous, and to indicate an ingenuous modesty,to acknowledge the source whence we have derived assistance, andnot act as most of those have done whom I have examined. ForI must inform you, that in consulting various authors, I have dis­covered that some of the most grave, and of the latest writers,have transcribed word for word from former works, without makingany acknowledgment. Not avowedly rivalling them, in the mannerof Virgil, or with the candour of Cicero, who, in his treatise "DeRepublica," professes to be the companion of Plato, and in hisEssay on consolation for his Daughter, calls himself the followerof Crantor, and of Panaecius in his Offices,16 volumes, which youwell know, ought not merely to be always in our hands, but to belearned by heart. For it is indeed the mark of a perverted mind 1s " Jam pridem peracta sancitur." 16 The following is probably the passage in the Offices, to which Plinyrefers :—" Panaetius igitur, qui sine controversia de officiis accuratissirriedisputavit, quemque nos, correctione quadam adhibita, potissimum secutisumus,...." Lib. iii. sec. 2.