OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 205 and the stupendous miracle, which convinced the chap.senate and people of Rome that the lump of clay, xviILwhich their ambassadors had transported over theseas, was endowed with life, and sentiment, anddivine power*. For the truth of this prodigy heappeals to the public monuments of the city, andcensures with some acrimony the sickly and affectedtaste of those men, who impertinently derided thesacred traditions of their ancestors. But as thosetraditions of pagan mythology were variously related,the sacred interpreters were at liberty to select themost convenient circumstances; and as they trans­lated an arbitrary cipher, they could extract fromany fable any sense which was adapted to theirfavourite system of religion and philosophy. Thelascivious form of a naked Venus was tortured intothe discovery of some moral precept, or some phy­sical truth; and the indecent fable of Atys ex­plained the revolution of the sun between the tropics,or the separation of the human soul from vice anderror t. By the hands of Maximus, the boldest and mostskilful master of the Theurgic science, Julian wassecretly initiated at Ephesus, in the twentieth yearof his age. His residence at Athens confirmed thisunnatural alliance of philosophy and superstition.He obtained the privilege of a solemn initiation intothe mysteries of Eleusis, which, amidst the generaldecay of the Graecian worship, still retained somevestiges of their primaeval sanctity; and such wasthe zeal of Julian, that he afterwards invited theEleusinian pontiff to the court of Gaul, for the sole * The Idaean mother landed in Italy about the end of the second Punic war.+ See the fifth oration of Julian. The true religion of Julian may be deduced from the Caesars, p. 308. withSpanheim's notes and illustrations, from the fragments in Cyril, 1. ii. p. 57, 58."and especially from the theological oration in Solem Regem, p. 130—158. ad­dressed, in the confidence of friendship, to the praefect Sallust.