OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 865 rapid pursuit, and invincible valour^ of the Barbarians chap.of Scythia. Under the command of Fritigern and XXI'Alavivus, the body of the nation hastily advanced tothe banks of the great river, and implored the pro­tection of the Roman emperor of the East. Athana-ric himself, still anxious to avoid the guilt of perjury,retired with a band of faithful followers into themountainous country of Caucaland; which appearsto have been guarded, and almost concealed, by theimpenetrable forests of Transylvania *. After Valens had terminated the Gothic war with The Goth«some appearance of glory and success, he made a pro- the protee-gress through his dominions of Asia, and at lengthfixed his residence in the capital of Syria. The five a.d. 376.years t which he spent at Antioch were employed towatch, from a secure distance, the hostile designs ofthe Persian monarch; to check the depredations ofthe Saracens and Isaurians; to enforce, by argumentsmore prevalent than those of reason and eloquence,the belief of the Arian theology; and to satisfy hisanxious suspicions by the promiscuous execution ofthe innocent and the guilty. But the attention ofthe emperor was most seriously engaged, by the im­portant intelligence which he received from the civiland military officers who were intrusted with thedefence of the Danube. He was informed, that theNorth was agitated by a furious tempest; that theirruption of the Huns, an unknown and monstrousrace of savages, had subverted the power of the Goths;and that the suppliant multitudes of that warlike na­tion, whose pride was now humbled in the dust, co­vered a space of many miles along the banks of theriver. With outstretched arms, and pathetic lament­ations, they loudly deplored their past misfortunes * Ammianus (xxxi. 3.) and Jornandes (de Rebus Geticis, c. 24.) describe thesubversion of the Gothic empire by the Huns. t The chronology of Ammianus is obscure and imperfect , Tillemont haslaboured to clear and settle the Annals of Valens.