OCR Output Ot ROME. 67 XXXVI. HB intended alfo to have furrounded B o o K.the city with a ftone wall; but a war with the Sa- 1-._^_bines interrupted his defigns. And fo fuddenly didthis break out, that the enemy pafied the Anio, be­fore the Roman troops could march out to me'etthem, and flop their progrefs. This produced agreat alarm at Rome, and, in the firft engagement,the victory remained undecided, after great'flaugh­ter on both fides. The enemy afterwards havingretired to their camp, and allowed the Romans timeto prepare for the war anew, Tarquinius, obfervingthat the principal defect of his army was the wantof cavalry, refolved to add other centuries to theRamnenfes, Titienfes, and Luceres, inftituted byRomulus, and to leave them diftinguifhed by hisown name. As Romulus, when he firft formed thisinftitution, had made ufe of augury, Accius Naevius,a celebrated augur at that time, infifted that no alte­ration or addition could be made to it, without thefanction of the birds. The king was highly dif-pleafed at this, and, in ridicule of the art, faid, as weare told, " Come, you diviner, difcover, by your"augury, whether what I am now thinking of can be"accomplifhed." The other having tried the matteraccording to the rules of augury, and declared that itcould be accomplifhed, " Well," faid he, " what I"was thinking of was, whether you could cut a"whetftone in two with a razor. Take thefe, then,"and perform what your birds portend to be prac-C' ticable." On which, as the ftory goes, he, with­out any difficulty, cut the whetftone. There was aftatue of Accius, with a fillet on his head, in theplace where the transaction happened, in the Comi-tium* or place of afiembly, juft on the fteps, at theleft-hand fide of the fenate-houfe. It is alfo faid,that the whetftone was fixed in the fame place, thereto remain, as a monument of this miracle, to pofte- • The Comitium was a part of the Roman Forum, where, in earlytimes, afierabtiet of tht people were h'ld, <nd th; aflemblies of theCuriae always. f a rity.