OCR Output DISSERTATION II. 508 " Behold the fire and the wood, hut where is the lamb for aburnt-offering ? And Abraham said, My son, God will pro­vide himself a lamb for a burnt-offering." Both these pas­sages look to me somewhat like such an expectation. 9. However, it appears most evident that Abraham, and Isuppose Isaac also, firmly believed, that if God should permitIsaac to he actually slain as a sacrifice, he would certainlyand speedily raise him again from the dead. This, to besure, is supposed in the words already quoted, that both heand his son would go and worship, and come again to theservants; and is clearly and justly collected from this his­tory by the author to the Hebrews, chap. xi. 17-19. " Byfaith Abraham when he was tried offered up Isaac: and hethat had received the promises offered up his only begotten,of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called,accounting or reasoning that God was able to raise him fromthe dead." And this reasoning was at once very obvious,and wholly undeniable, that since God was truth itself, andhad over and over promised that he would' " multiply Abra­ham exceedingly; that he should be a father of many nations;that his name should be no longer Abram, but Abraham, be­cause a father of many nations God had made him, &c.; thatSarai his wife should be called Sarah ; that he would blessher, and give Abraham a son also of her; and that he wouldbless him; and she should become nations, and kings of peo­ple should be of her, &c.; and that2 "in Isaac should hisseed be called." And since withal it is here supposed thatIsaac was to be slain as a sacrifice, before he was married,'or had any seed, God was, for certain, obliged by his pro­mises, in these circumstances, to raise Isaac again from thedead, and this was an eminent instance of that faith whereby3 Abraham believed God, and it was imputed to him forrighteousness, viz. that if God should permit Isaac to be sa­crificed, he would certainly and quickly raise him up againfrom the dead, 4from whence also he received him in a figure,as the author to the Hebrews here justly observes. 1 Gen. xvii. 2-6, 10. » Gen. xxi. 12. • Gen. xv. 6. « Heb. xi. 19.