OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 209 dominion over so many vassal kings. Even tribes of barbarians intheir mountain?, and the Greek cities of Upper Asia JI, within theirwalls, scarcely acknowledged, or at least obeyed, any superior; andthe Parthian empire exhibited, under other names, a lively image ofthe feudal system 51 which has since prevailed in Europe. But theactive victor, at the head of a numerous and disciplined army, visitedin person every province of Persia. The defeat of the boldest rebels,and the reduction of the strongest fortifications diffused the terrorof "his arms, and prepared the way for the peaceful reception of hisauthority. An obstinate resistance was fatal to the chiefs; but theirfollowers were treated with lenity '*. A cheerful submission wasrewarded with honours and riches; hut the prudent ArtaxerxCs,suffering no person except himself to assume the title of king, abo­lished every intermediate power between the throne and the people.His kingdom, nearly equal in extent to modern Persia, was, on every Extent and . population of fide, bounded by the sea or by great rivers; by the Euphrates, the Persia.Tigris, the Araxes, the Oxus, and the Indus, by the Caspian sea,and the gulph of Persia. That country was computed to contain inthe last century, five hundred and fifty-four cities, sixty thousandvillages, and about forty millions of fouls If we compare theadministration of the house of Sassan with that of the house of Sefi,the political influence of the Magian with that of the Mahometanreligion, we shall probably infer, that the kingdom of Artaxerxescontained at least as great a number of cities, villages, and inhabit­ants. But it must likewise be confessed, that in every age thewant of harbours on the sea coast, and the scarcity of frefli waterin the inland provinces, have been very unfavourable to the com­merce and agriculture of the Persians; who, in the calculation oftheir numbers, seem to have indulged one of the meanest, thoughmost common artifices, of national vanity. As soon as the ambitious mind of Artaxerxes had triumphed over Recapitula­te resistance of his vassals, he began to threaten the neighbouring war between tv, t 17 n thePaithian Vol. I. E e • states,