OCR Output IIVY. than to abandon the Sidicinians, yield obedience to thecommands, not only of the Romans, but of the Sam-nites, saying in answer to the former that, wheneverthey intimate their pleasure, we are ready to lay downour arms? But, on the other hand, if our minds areat length penetrated by an ardent desire of liberty; ifthere be a confederacy subsisting; if alliance be equalityof rights; if the Romans have now reason to glory iaa circumstance, of which they were formerly ashamed,our being of the same blood with them; if they have,in our troops, such an army of allies that, by its junc­tion with their own, they double their strength ; sucha one, in short, as their consuls, either in commencingor concluding their own wars, would, very unwillingly,disunite from their party; why is there not a perfectand settled equalisation ? Why is it not permitted thatone of the consuls should be chosen from among theLatines ? and that they who supply an equal share ofstrength should be admitted to an equal share in thegovernment? This, indeed, considered in itself, wouldnot redound to our honor in any extraordinary degree ;as we should still acknowlege Rome to be the metropolisof Latium; but that it may possibly appear to do so, isowing to our tame resignation for such a length of time.But, if you ever wished to acquire a participation inthe government, the opportunity now presents itself,afforded to you by the bounty of the gods and yourown resolution. You have tried their patience by re­fusing the supply of troops: who can doubt that theywere incensed to the highest degree when we brokethrough a practice of more than two hundred years'continuance ? Yet they thought proper to smother theirresentment. We waged war with the Pelignians in ourown name: those who formerly would not grant usliberty to defend our own frontiers interfered notthen. They heard that we had received the Sidiciniansinto our protection ; that the Campanians had revoltedfrom them to us ; that we were preparing an army toact against the Samnites, their confederates; yet theystirred not a step from their city. What but a know­