OCR Output 282 SPEECH OF TITUS. [B. VI. in my hands ? And do you still deem it a part of valor todie ? However, I will not imitate your madness. If you willthrow down your arms, and deliver up your bodies to me, Igrant you your lives; and I will act like a mild master of afamily; what cannot be healed shall be punished, and therest I will preserve for my own use." 3. To that offer of Titus they made this reply, that " theycould not accept of it, because they had sworn never to doso; but they desired they might have leave to go through thewall that had been made about them, with their wives andchildren; for that they would go into the desert, and leavethe city to him." At this Titus had great indignation, that,when they were in the case of men already taken captives,they should pretend to make their own terms with him, as ifthey had been conquerors. So he ordered this proclamationto be made to them, that " they should no more come out tohim as deserters, nor hope for any farther security; for thathe would henceforth spare nobody, but fight them with hiswhole army ; and that they must save themselves as well asthey could; for that he would from henceforth treat themaccording to the laws of war." So he gave orders to thesoldiers both to burn and to plunder the city, who did nothing,indeed, that day; but on the next day they set fire to thorepository of the archives, to Acra, to the council-house, andto the place called Ophlas ; at which time the fire proceededas far as the palace of Queen Helena, which was in themiddle of Acra: the lanes also were burnt down, as werealso those houses that were full of the dead bodies of suchas were destroyed by famine. 4. On the same day it was that the sons and brethren ofIzates the king, together with many others of the eminentmen of the populace, got together there, and besought Caesarto give them his right hand for their security : upon which,though he were very angry at all that were now remaining,yet did he not lay aside his old moderation, but received thesemen. At that time, indeed, he kept them all in custody, butstill bound the king's sons and kinsmen, and led them withhim to Rome, in order to make them hostages for their coun­try's fidelity to the Romans.