OCR Output 32 [A. V. C. 767- THE ANNALS then a centurion, in the vigour of youth, and of aspirit to face every danger. He made head againstall assailants, and sword in hand cut his way throughtheir thickest ranks. From this time all was uproarand wild commotion. No tribune gave orders, no>prtBfect of the camp was heard. The leaders of themutiny appointed sentinels; they stationed the night,watch, and gave directions as emergencies required.One mind inspired the whole body; and this circum­stance, in the judgment of those who best knew thetemper of the army, was the sure sign of a faction noteasy to be quelled. In separate bodies nothing wasdone; no single incendiary took upon him to direct;together they set up a general shout, and together allwere silent. Every thing moved in concert, and evenanarchy had the appearance of regular discipline. XXXIII. Meanwhile Germanicus, engaged, as hasbeen mentioned, with the states of Gaul, received ad­vice that Augustus was no more. He had marriedAgrippina, the grand-daughter of that emperor, andby her had several children. Drusus, the brother ofTiberius, was his father, and of course Livia was hisgrand-mother. Thus descended, and thus allied, helived in perpetual anxiety. The sullen aversion ofhis uncle, and the secret malice of Livia, embitteredhis days. The hatred with which they pursued himwas unjust; and, for that reason, unrelenting. Thefact is, Drusus was the delight of the Roman people;they cherished his memory; persuaded that, if thesovereign power had devolved on him, the old repub­lic would have been restored. At his death, the af­fections of mankind were transferred to his son. Fromsimilar virtues the same conduct was expected. Pos­sessed of popular talents, affable and obliging to all,Germanicus presented a strong contrast to the harshtemper and clouded aspect of Tiberius. The jealou­sies that subsisted between the women, added fuel tothe flame; Livia beheld the wife of Germanicus withthe malice of a step-mother; and, in return, Agrip­pina resented every thing with sensibility, perhapswith indignation. But the tenderness of her affection,