OCR Output A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. XXVII. The soldiers, in a tumultuous body, rushedfrom the tribunal, breathing vengeance, and, where-ever they met either the men belonging to the prse-torian bands, or the" friends of Drusus, threateningviolence, in hopes of ending the dispute by a suddenconflict. Cneius Lentul us, whose age and military cha­racter gave him considerable weight, was particularlyobnoxious; he was supposed to be the chief adviserof Drusus, and an enemy to the proceedings of thearmy. For the security of his person, he went asidewith Drusus, intending to repair to the winter camp.The mutineers gathered round him, demanding withinsolence, " which way was he going ? to the senate ?"perhaps to the emperor? Was he there to show"himself an enemy to the demands of the legions?"Nothing could restrain their fury; they discharged avolley of stones; and one of them taking place, Len-tulus, wounded and covered with blood, had nothingto expect but instant death, when the guards that at­tended Drusus came up in time, and rescued him fromdestruction. XXVIII. The night that followed seemed big withsome fatal disaster, when an unexpected phenomenonput an end to the commotion. In a clear and serenesky the moon was suddenly eclipsed. This appear­ance, in its natural cause not understood by the sol­diers, was deemed a prognostic denouncing the fate ofthe army. The planet, in its languishing state, re­presented the condition of the legions: if it recoveredits former lustre, the efforts of the men would becrowned with success. To assist the moon in herlabours, the air resounded with the clangour of brazeninstruments, with the sound of trumpets, and otherwarlike music. The crowd, in the mean time, stoodat gaze: every gleam of light inspired the men withjoy; and the sudden gloom depressed their hearts withgrief. The clouds condensed, and the moon was sup­posed to be lost in utter darkness. A melancholyhorror seized the multitude; and melancholy is sureto engender superstition. A religious panic spreadthrough the army. The appearance in the heavensforetold eternal labour to the legions; and all la.