OCR Output 38 [book r. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. offer sacrifice upon them, if he lived and re­turned safe: and if he came again in such acondition, he would give the tithe of what hehad gotten to God. He also judged the placeto be honourable, and gave it the name ofBethel; which, if explained in the Greektongue, is the House of God. He then proceeded on his journey to Meso­potamia, and at length came to Haran, andmeeting with Shepherds in the suburbs, withboys grown up and maidens sitting round acertain well, he stayed with them, as wantingwater to drink; and beginning to discoursewith them, he asked them whether theyknew such an one as Laban? and whetherhe were still alive? they all said they knewhim, for he was not so inconsiderable a per­son as to be unknown to any of them; andthat his daughter fed her father's flocktogether with them: and that, indeed, theywondered she was not yet come, " for by hermeans," said they, " thou mightest learnmore exactly whatever thou desirest to knowabout that family." While they were speak­ing, the damsel came, and the other shep­herds that came with her. Then they shewedher Jacob, and told her, that he was a stran­ger who came to inquire about her father'saffairs. But she, being pleased, after thecustom of children, with Jacob's coming,asked him who he was? and whence hecame? and what it was he wanted, that hecame thither? She also wished it might bein their power to supply his wants. Jacob was quite overcome, not so much bytheir kindred, nor by that affection whichmight arise thence, as by his love to thedamsel, and his surprise at her beauty, whichwas such as few of the women of that agecould vie with. He then said, "There is arelation between thee and me, elder thaneither of our births, if thou be the daughterof Laban. For Abraham was the son ofTerah, as well as Haran and Nahor. Of thelast of whom, Nahor, Bethuel thy grandfatherwas the son: Isaac my father was the son ofAbraham and of Sarah, who was the daughterof Haran. But there is a nearer and later * By this deprivation of the kingdom that was to begiven Esau of God, as the first-born; it appears that Jose-phus thought a kingdom to be derived of God was due tohim whom Isaac should bless as his first-born: which Itake to be that kingdom which was expected under the cement of mutual kindred which we bear toone another. For my mother Rebeka wassister to Laban, thy father, both by the samefather and mother. I, therefore, and thou,are cousin germans, and I am now come tosalute thee, and to renew that affinity whichis proper between us." At the mention of Re­beka, the damsel wept, and that out of thekindness she had for her father, and em­braced Jacob: she having learned an ac­count of Rebeka from her father, and knewthat her parents loved to hear her named;and when she had saluted him, she said, thathe brought the most desirable and greatestpleasure to her father, with all their family,who was always mentioning his mother, andalways thinking of her, and her alone; "andthis," said she, "will make thee equal in hiseyes to any advantageous circumstance what­soever." Then she bid him follow her, whileshe conducted him to her father, not wishingto deprive Laban of such a pleasure, by stay­ing any longer away from him. When she had said thus, she brought himto Laban; and being owned by his uncle, hewas secure himself, as being among hisfriends; to whom his unexpected arrival gavegreat pleasure. But a little while afterward,Laban told him that he could not express inwords the joy he had at his coming; but stillhe inquired why he left his aged mother andfather, when they wanted to be taken care ofby him; and that he would afford him all theassistance he wanted. Then Jacob gave himan account of the whole occasion of his jour­ney, and told him that Isaac had twin sons,himself and Esau; and that his brother hav­ing failed of his father's prayers, which byhis mother's wisdom were put up for him,sought to kill him; as deprived of the king­dom* which was to be given him of God;and of the blessings for which their fatherprayed; and that this was the occasion of hiscoming hither, as his mother had commandedhim. "For," said he, "we are all brethrenone to another; but our mother esteems analliance with your family more than she doesone with the families of the country; so I Messiah; who, therefore, was to be born of his posteritywhom Isaac should so bless. Jacob, therefore, by ob­taining this blessing of the first-born, became the genuineheir of that kingdom, in opposition to Esau.