OCR Output Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 430 put them, and then had them whipped till every one of their in­ward parts appeared naked. In the mean time the multitudestood round the house, and supposed that he had a long discoursewith those that were gone in, about what they claimed of him.He had then the doors set open immediately, and sent the menout all bloody, which so terribly affrighted those that had beforethreatened him, that they threw away their arms and ran away. 6. But as for John, his envy grew greater [upon this escapeof Josephus], and he framed a new plot against him; he pre­tended to be sick, and by a letter desired that Josephus wouldgive him leave to use the hot baths that were at Tiberias, forthe recovery of his health. Hereupon Josephus, who hithertosuspected nothing of John's plots against him, wrote to the go­vernors of the city, that they would provide a lodging andnecessaries for John; which favours, when he had made useof, in two days time he did what he came about; some he cor­rupted with delusive frauds, and others with money, and so per­suaded them to revolt from Josephus. This Silas who was ap­pointed guardian of the city by Josephus, wrote to him imme­diately, and informed him of the plot against him; which epistlewhen Josephus had received, he marched with great diligenceall night, and came early in the morning to Tiberias; at whichtime the rest of the multitude met him. But John, who sus­pected that coming was not for his advantage, sent however oneof his friends, and pretended that he was sick, and that beingconfined to his bed he could not come to pay him his respects.But as soon as Josephus had got the people of Tiberias to­gether in the Stadium, and tried to discourse with them a-bout the letters that he had received, John privately sentsome armed men, and gave them orders to slay him. Butwhen the people saw that the armed men were about to drawtheir swords, they cried out; at which cry Josephus turned him­self about, and when he saw that the swords were just at histhroat, he marched away in great haste to the sea shore, and leftoff that speech which he was going to make to the people, uponan elevation of six cubits high. He then seized on a ship whichlav in the haven, and leaped into it, with two of his guards, andfled away into the midst of the lake. 1. But now the soldiers he had with him took up their arms,immediately, and marched against the plotters; but Josephuswas afraid lest a civil war should be raised by the envy of a fewmen, and bring the city to rum; so he sent some of his party totell them, that they should do no more than provide for their ownsafety, that they should not kill anybody, nor accuse any for theoccasion they had afforded [of a disorder]. Accordingly thesejnen obeyed his orders, and were quiet; but the people of the neighbouring