OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 7M t! r(f fttml of crane on the sooth side. This4l,i* muuirm is ilao established by the accountstori tt kin of basilicas being built either on or•v :)>m litej. as will appear in the sequel. Their-\ rrant cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, butm'v tier could not have stood before the curiar oiitjnm. In process of time the forum beganpi a • better appearance by the conversion of» x,.rhers' ihops into those of silversmiths (** Hoc:milinjrimum forensis dignitas crevit, atque exlanienis argentariae factae," Varro m Non.IN, M.) No clue, however, is given to the exact'• < tin* rhanee. The earliest period at whichtlie argentari/K is in Livy's description of■avropbaf I'ipirius Cursor, B. c. 308 (ix. 40).1^ tl* comitia were declared it seems to have■- rutumary for the argentarii to close their shops,ft L L vL $ 91, MB11.) The tabernae wereti W rnh ilnrmiana or balconies, which extended•1 the columns supporting the porticoes, and > fraed convenient places for beholding then og the forum (Festus, p. 134, Mlill.; Isid.t tv. i, II.) These Maeniana appear to have ■ (total with subjects. Thus Cicero: •' IV-«"m dirito pictum Galium in Mariano scuto■ns» Mi Novis * (afe Or. ii. 66) I'liny mentionsW ficlore, or rather caricature, of a Gaul tnbvwaa. and also a figure of an old shepherd with• t TV latter appears to have been considered Rtuia as a valuable work, as some of themi • iVerman ambassador what he valued it at? barbarian, who had no taste for art, said heIart hare it as a gift, even if the man was real■*»* (xxxv. 8). According to Varro, quotedt- nine author (fb. 37), the Maeniana sub were painted by Serapion.*-*.Vr terrice which Tarquin indirectly rendered'tmm was by the construction of his cloacae, > At the efiect of thoroughly draining it It wast" the Lacc* CcHTTtJs, which had formerly ■ * the auddle of the forum, disappeared~ it* in locuin palustrem, qui turn fuit in foro, cbacae sunt factae, secessisse," Piso op.I. Lr. § 149. seq. MM!.) Thus, though not ■ if a story as the self-immolation of Curtius,Maws the true representation; but all the three'rneacctBxl witli the subject will be found inft «.) It was perhaps in commemoration of ^r-V* that til* shrine or sacellum of Vehis"» was erected on the N. side of the tbrum,'I ibarnae Novae, as appears from the story t'coa, or cujatiXA. (From a Coin.) ■» t» it (Lir. iiu 48 ; cf. PI Li. XT. 36.) *" the Lams Curtius after its disappearancevts-ntad in another manner. Having beentrwtBisur. it seems to have been converted~* awaiu/. vhjch, however, still continued tom» of Lama Curtius (cf. Varr.v § 150): tTW liros. si cow qui sustinet aras,'dc aobda est tellus, sed lacns ante fuit." . (Or. Fast. vi. 397.) Every year the people used to throw pieces of moneyinto it, a sort of augurium salutis, or new year's gillfor Augustus. (Suet. Aug. 57.) Close to it giew afig-tree, a vine, and an olive, which had been for­tuitously planted, and were sedulously cultivated bythe people; and near them was an altar, dedicatedto Vulcan, which was removed at the time of thegladiatorial games given at Caesar's funeral. (Plin.xv. 20 s cf. Gruter, Inter. Ixi. 1, 2.) Serrius Tullius probably carried on and completedthe works begun by his predecessor around theforum, just as he finished the wall; but he dues notappear to have undertaken anything original except­ing the adding of a lower dungeon, called after himTri.i.iANUM, to the Mamertinc prison. (" In hoo(carcere) pars quae sub terra Tullianum, ideo quodadditum a Tullio rege," Varr. L. L. v. § 151.) Thisremains to the present day, and still realises to thespectator the terrible description of Sallust ( Cat. 55). The Roman Cictroni point out to the travellerthe Scalar Gemoniak inside the Mamertinc prison,where there are evident remains of an ancient stair­case. But it appears from descriptions in ancientauthors that thi>y were situated in a path leadingdown from the Capitol towards the prison, and thatthey were visible from the forum. (Dion Cass, lvifi.5; Valer. Max. vi. 9. § 13; Tac. Hut. iii. 74.) Tracesof this path were discovered in the 16th century(Luc. Fauno, Ant. di Roma, p. 32), and also nutmany years ago in excavating the ground by thearch of Severus. # It does not appear that any additions or improve­ments were made in the forum during the reign ofTarquinius Snperbus. 7"A« Forum during the Republic. — One ofthe earliest buildings erected near the forum inthe republican times was the temple of CastukA.xt> Pollix. After the battle at lake Regillus,the Dioscuri, who had assisted the Unmans in thefight, were seen refreshing themselves and theirhorses, all covered with dust and sweat, at the littlefountain of Jutuma, near the temple of Vesta.(Dionys. vi. 13; Val. Max. i. 8. § 1 ; Cic. JV. D.ii. 2, &c.) A temple had been vowed to thosedeities during the Latin War by Postumius thedictator; and the spot where this apparition hadbeen observed was chosen for its site. It was dedi­cated by the son of Postumius B. c. 484. (Liv.ii. 42.) It was not a temple of the largest size;but its conspicuous situation on the forum madeit one of the best known in Rome. From thesame circumstance the flight of steps lending up toit served as a kind of suggestum or rostm fromwhich to address the people in the forum; a pur­pose to which it seems to have been sometimesapplied by Caesar. (Dion Cass, xxxviil. 6; cf. Cic.p.Sett. 15 ; Appian, B.C. iii. 41.) The temple servedfor assemblies of the senate, and for judicial busi­ness. Its importance is thus described by Cicero:"In aede Casturis, celeberrimo clarissimoque monu-mento, quod templum in oculis quotidianoque eon-spectu populi Romani est positum ; quo saepeniitnerosenatus convocatur; quo maximarum rerum fre-quentissimae quotidic advocationes Aunt" (t» Kerr,i. 49). Though dedicated to the twin gods, thetemple was commonly called only Atdrs Castoru,as in the preceding passage; whence Bibulus, thecolleague of Caesar in the aedileship, took occasionto compare himself to Pollux, who, though he sharedthe temple in common with his brother, was neveronce named. (Snet. Coe». 10.) It was restored by