OCR Output IIS THE DECLINE AND FALL a sinner, ignorant of the limits of his own power: the second, in the midst of four/hundred thousand soldiers and eight thousand slaves, concealed from every human;eye the chamber where he attempted to sleep. Their sons were educated in thevices of kings; and both Egypt and Syria were recovered and possessed by the Ab­bassides during an interval of thirty years. In the decline of their empire, Me­sopotamia, with the important cities of Mosul and Aleppo, was occupied by theArabian princes of the tribe of Hamadan. The poets of their court could repeat,,•without a blush, that nature had formed their countenances for beauty, theirtongues for eloquence, and their hands for liberality and valour: but the genuinetale of the elevation and reign of the Hamadanites exhibits a scene of treachery,murder and parricide. At the same fatal period, the Persian kingdom was againusurped by the dynasty of the Bowides, by the sword of three brothers, who, un­der various names, were styled the support and columns of the state, and who, fromthe Caspian sea to the ocean, would suffer no tyrants but themselves. Under theirreign, the language and genius of Persia revived, and the Arabs, three hundredand four years after the death of Mahomet, were deprived of the sceptre of theeast. Radhi, the twentieth of the Abbassides, and the thirty-ninth of the successorsof Mahomet, was the last who deserved the title of commander of the faithful;(t)the last (says Abulfeda) who spoke to the people, or conversed with the learned;the last who, in the expense of his household, represented the wealth and magni­ficence of the ancient caliphs. After him, the lords of the eastern world were re­duced to the most abject misery, and exposed to the blows and insults of a servilecondition. The revolt of the provinces circumscribed their dominions within thewalls of Bagdad; but that capital still contained an innumerable multitude, vain oftheir past fortune, discontented with their present state, and oppressed by the de­mands of a treasury, which had formerly been replenished by the spoil and tri­bute of nations. Their idleness was exercised by faction and controversy. Underthe mask of piety, the rigid followers of Hanbal(2) invaded the pleasures of do­mestic life, burst into the houses of plebeians and princes, spilled the wine, brokethe instruments, beat the musicians, and dishonoured, with infamous suspicions,the associates of every handsome youth. In each profession, which allowed roomfor two persons, the one was a votary, the other an antagonist, of Ali; and the Ab­bassides were awakened by the clamorous grief of the sectaries, who denied theirtitle, and cursed their progenitors. A turbulent people could only be repressedby a military force; but who could satisfy the avarice, or assert the discipline, ofthe mercenaries themselves ? The African and the Turkish guards drew theirswords against each other, and the chief commanders, the emirs al Omra,(3) im­prisoned or deposed their sovereigns, and violated the sanctuary of the mosch andharam. If the caliphs escaped to the camp or court of any neighbouring prince,their deliverance was a change of servitude, till they were prompted by despairto invite the Bowides, the sultans of Persia, who silenced the factions of Bagdadby their irresistible arms. The civil and military powers were assumed by Moe-zaldowlat, the second of the three brothers, and a stipend of sixty thousand poundssterling was assigned by his generosity for the private expense of the commanderof the faithful. But on the fortieth day, at the audience 'of the ambassadors ofChorasan, and in the presence of a trembling multitude, the caliph was draggedfrom his throne to a dungeon, by the command of the stranger, and the rudehands of his Dilemites. His palace was pillaged, his eyes were put out, and themean ambition of Abbassides aspired to the vacant station of danger and disgrace.In the school of adversity, the luxurious caliphs resumed the grave and abstemi­ous virtues of the primitive times. Despoiled of their armour and silken robes, fl) Hie est ultimas chalifah qui multum atque csepius pro concione perorarit. . .. Fuit etiam ultimas qaiolium cum eruditis et facetis hominibus fallere hilariterque agere soferet. Ultimus tandem chalitarum cutsumptus, 5tipendia,r('ditus, et thesauri, culina:, cseteraque omim aujica pompa priorum chalifarura ad instarcomparata fuerint. _ Videbimos enim paullo poet quam indignis et servitibus ludibriis exagitati, quam ad hu-milcm fortunam ultimumque eontemptum abjecti fuerint hi quondam potentissimi totius terrarum Orienta-Kuinorbisdomini. Abulfed. Annal. Moslem, p. 261. I have given this passage at the manner and tone ofAbulfeda; but the cast of Latiu eloquence belongs moreproperly to Reiske. The Arabian historian (p. 255.257.261—269.283, See.) bas supplied me with the most interesting facts of this paragraph. (2) Their master, on a similar occasion, showed himself of a more indulgent and tolerating spirit. AhmedEbn Hanbal, the head of one of the four orthodox sects, was born at Bagdad, A. H. 164, anil died there A. H.241. He fought and suffered in the dispute concerning the creation of the Koran. (3) The office of vizier was superseded by the emir alOmra Imperator Imperatorum, a title first institutedby Radhi, and which merged at length in the Bowides and Seljukides; Tectigalibus. et tributis, et curiis per©nines regiones prsefecit.jussitque in omnibus suggestis nominis ejus in concionibus mentionenrfieri. (Abul-liharagius,Dynait. p. 190.) It is likewise mentioned bv F.rmacin. (p. 254.255.)