OCR Output CHAP. 29. ROMAN HISTORY. 245 such respect and ready submission did people pay to su­perior merit and superior authority, that the army, lessaffected with the disgrace they had suffered, than thebenefit they had received, decreed the dictator a crownof gold, of a pound weight, and at bis departure salutedhim their preserver. • The Roman senate having been convened by Fabius,the city prefect, decreed, that Quinctius, with the army'he" commanded, should enter the city intriumph. Thegenerals of ,ihe enemy walked in chains before his cha­riot; the ensigns taken from them,. were carried beforehim, and the army loaded with booty, closed the proces­sion. Tables were covered at every door, w.here thesoldiers stopping to regale themselves, again followed thechariot, making the whole city resound with songs oftriumph, and revelling as at their annual feasts. The same day, by the unanimous consent of the peo­ple, the freedom of Rome was conferred on L. MamiliusofTusculum. Quinctius would have abdicated the dic­tatorship immediately," had it not been for the trial ofVolscius for perjury, which the tribunes would have putoff long enough, had not the authority of the dictatorbeen interposed. Volscius was condemned,- and after­wards banished, when he retired to Lanuvium; ThoughQuinctius might'have "retained his high office for sixmonths, he resigned on the sixteenth day after his pro­motion. During these transactions, the consul Nautius was car­rying all before him at Eretrum, against the Sabines,whom he had not only distressed by ravaging their coun­try, but had also routed in a general battle. Fa'bius wassent to the Algid us, to succeed to Minucius. In the endof the year, the tribunes began to stir again in the affair"of the law: but as two armies were abroad, the senatecarried it, that n<3 bill should be preferred to the people.Nevertheless, in the election of tribunes, the commonsprevailed, to have the same men continued in office, forthe fifth time. About this time, it was reported, thatwolves had been seen in the capitbl, and that they weredriven away by the dogs, for which reason it was pu­rified.