OCR Output Chap. XXI. WARS OF THE JEWS. 441 routed those four commanders by stratagems, and had taken themost potent of their warriors, he sent them to Jerusalem ; andthe people [of Galilee] had great indignation at them, and werein a zealous disposition to slay, not only these forces, but thosethat sent them also, had not these forces prevented it by running 'away. 8. Now John was detained afterward within the walls ofGischala, by the fear he was in of Josephus; but within a fewdays Tiberias revolted again, the people within it inviting KingAgrippa [to return to the exercise of his authority there]. Andwhen he did not come at the time appointed; and when a fewRoman horsemen appeared that day, they expelled Josephus outof the city. Now this revolt of theirs was presently known atTaricheae; and as Josephus had sent out all the soldiers thatwere with him to gather corn, he knew not how either to marchout alone against the revolters, or to stay where he was, becausehe was afraid the king's soldiers might prevent him if he tar足ried, and might get into the city ; for he did not intend, to doany thing on the next day, because it was the Sabbath day, andwould hinder his proceeding. So he contrived to circumventthe revohers by a stratagem; and in the first place he orderedthe gates of Taricheae to be shut, that nobody might go out andinform [those of Tiberias], for whom it was intended, whatstratagem he was about: he then got together all the ships thatwere upon the lake, which were found to be two hundred andthirty, and in each of them he put no more than four mariners.So he sailed to Tiberias with haste, and kept at such a distancefrom the city, that it was not easy for the people to see the ves足sels, and ordered that the empty vessels should float up and downthere, while himself, who had but seven of his guards with him,and those unarmed also, went so near as to be seen ; but whenhis adversaries, who were still reproaching him, saw him fromthe walls, they were so astonished that they supposed all theships were full of armed men, and threw down their arms,and by signals of intercession they besought him to spare the city. 9. Upon this Josephus threatened them terribly, and reproach足ed them, that when they were the first that took up arms againstthe Romans, they should spend their force before-hand in civildissensions, and do what their enemies desired above all things;and that besides they should endeavour so hastily to seize uponhim, who took care of their safety, and had not been ashamed toshut the gates of their city against him that built their walls ;that, however, he would admit of any intercessors from themthat might make some excuse for them, and with whomhe would make such agreements as might be for the city's se足curity. Hereupon ten of the most potent men of Tiberias came VOL. 111. 3 K down