OCR Output 192 TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. [B. V. stood off, and threw themselves down upon the ground; bywhich means, and by their thus guarding themselves, the stonefell down, and did them no harm. But the Romans contrivedhow to prevent that by blacking the stone, who then couldaim at them with success, when the stone was not discernedbeforehand, as it had been till then; and so they destroyedmany of them at one blow. Yet did not the Jews, under allthis distress, permit the Romans to raise their banks in quiet;but they shrewdly and boldly exerted themselves, and repelledthem both by night and by day. 4. And now, upon the finishing the Roman works, the work­men measured the distance there was from the wall, and thisby lead and line, which they threw to it from their banks;for they could not measure it any otherwise, because the Jewswould shoot at them, if they came to measure it themselves;and when they found that the engines could reach the wall,they brought them thither. Then did Titus set his engines atproper distances, so much nearer to the wall, that the Jewsmight not be able to repel them, and gave orders they shouldgo to work: and when thereupon a prodigious noise echoedround about from three places, and that, on the sudden, therewas a great noise made by the citizens that were within thecity, and no less a terror fell upon the seditious themselves;whereupon both sorts, seeing the common danger they werein, contrived to make a like defence. So those of differentfactions cried out one to another, that they acted entirely asin concert with their enemies; whereas they ought, however,notwithstanding God did not grant them a lasting concord,in their present circumstances to lay aside their enmities oneagainst another, and to unite together against the Romans.Accordingly, Simon gave those that came from the temple hut a very small degree of probability. If I were to make an emendation,by mere conjecture, I would read nETPOi- instead of YIOS, though the like­ness be not so great as in IOE; because that is the word used by Josephusjust before, as I have already noted, on this very occasion, while IOs, anarrow or dart, is only a poetical word, and never used by Josephus elsewhere,and is, indeed, no way suitable to the occasion, this engine not throwingarrows or darts, but great stones, nt this time.