OCR Output 34 LIVY. of the camp, and his men were in a disposition ratherto fly back thither than to face the enemy. After someslight efforts he was compelled to give up the contestintirely; but, by reason of the shortness of the dis­tance, and the ease with which he could regain hiscamp, he saved his army without much difficulty fromany great loss, few falling either in the action or in theretreat. As soon as it grew dark they removed inhaste and disorder to Privernum, choosing to intrusttheir safety to walls rather than to a rampart. Theother consul, Plautius, after wasting the country onevery side, and driving off the spoil, led his army fromPrivernum into the territory of Fundi. On enteringthe borders he was met by the senate of that state,who declared that ' they came not to intercede for Vi-truvius, and those who had followed his faction, butfor the peopl? of Fundi, who, in the judgment of Vi-truvius himself, were clear from all blame of the war,as he showed by repairing for safety after his defeat toPrivernum, and not to Fundi, his native city. AtPrivernum, therefore, the enemies of the Roman peo­ple were to be sought and punished; who, regardlessof their duty to both countries, had revolted at oncefrom Fundi and from Rome. The Fundians were in astate of peace, their minds were Roman, and impressedwith a grateful remembrance of the privilege of citizensimparted to them: they besought the consul that hewould not treat as enemies an unoffending people ; as­suring him that their lands, their city, and their per­sons, were, and ever should be, in the disposal of theRoman people.' The consul commended their con­duct ; and, despatching letters to Rome, that the Fun­dians had preserved their allegiance, turned his marchto Privernum. Claudius writes that he first inflictedpunishment on those who had been the principal abet­tors of the conspiracy; that three hundred and fiftywere sent in chains to Rome; but that the senate didnot accept their submission, because they thought thatthe people of Fundi meant, by consigning to punish­ment these men, who were mean and indigent, to se­cure impunity to themselves.