OCR Output 14 ROMAN EMPIRE. Cyril, pa. The name of CYRIL of Alexandria is famousttriarchof in controversial story, and the title of saint is Alexandria , •' A. D. 412, a mark that his opinions and his party haveA?b.444, finally prevailed. In the house of his uncle,Junesr. the archbishop Theophilus, he imbibed the or­thodox lessons of zeal and dominion, and five years ofhis youth were profitably spent in the adjacent monas­teries of Nitria. Under the tuition of the abbot Sera-pion, he applied himself to ecclesiastical studies, withsuch indefatigable ardour, that, in the course of one sleep­less night, he has perused the four gospels, the Catholicepistles, and the Epistle to the Romans. Origen he de­tested: but the writings of Clemens and Dionysius, ofAthanasius and Basil, were continually in his hands : bythe theory and practice of dispute, his faith was con­firmed, and his wit was sharpened: he extended roundhis cell the cobwebs of scholastic theology, and medi­tated the works of allegory and metaphysics, whose re­mains, in seven verbose folios, now peaceably slumberby the side of their rivals." Cyril prayed and fasted inthe desert, but his thoughts (it is the reproach of afriend") were still fixed on the world; and the call ofTheophilus, who summoned him to the tumult of citiesand synods, was too readily obeyed by the aspiring her­mit. With the approbation of his uncle, he assumedthe office, and acquired the fame, of a popular preacher.His comely person adorned the pulpit, the harmony ofhis voice resounded in the cathedral, his friends werestationed to lead or second the applause of the congre­gation/ and the hasty notes of the scribes preserved hisdiscourses, which, in their effect, though not in their "La Croze (Hist, da Christianisme des Indes, torn. 1. p. 24.) avows In- con­tempt for the genius and writings of CyriL De tous les ouvrages des anciens, 11y en a peu qu'on lise avec moins d'utilite; and Dupin,(Bibliotheque Ecclesiastique,torn. 4. p. 42—52.) in words of respect, teaches us to despise thern. * Of Isidore of Pelusiurn. (lib. 1. epist. 25. p. 8.) As the letter is not of themost creditable sort, Tillemont, less sincere than the Bollandists, affects a doubtwhether this Cyril is the nephew of Theophilus. (Mern. Eccles. torn. 13. p. 268.) * A grammarian is named by Socrates, (lib. 7. 13) Jiairupo; Jf axpoam; tta ttn<r-xmrw KvgiXtou xafctrrw;, nai iripi •n s{OTW? a rtu; iifanfaXiai; atmv lyttpn m rirtvian-•nrtf.