OCR Output MACEOBII. MACRON TEICH0& 241 bia wherein the only productive soil for some hun­dreds of miles soutJi of Philae consists of narrowflips of ground adjacent to and irrigated by the Nile.From the southern frontier of Egypt to the nearestfrontier of Abyssinia the only practical road for anarmy lies along the river bank, and the distance tobe traversed is at least 900 miles. We most therefore abandon the belief that theMacrobians dwelt in the farthest south. But thereare other suspicious features in the narrative. Similarlength of days is ascribed by Herodotus to the Tar-tessians (i. 163; comp. Anacreon, ap. Strai. iii. 2),nor should it be overlooked that the Hyperboreans inthe extreme north are also denominated Macrobii.We may also bear in mind the mythical aspect ofHomer's Aethiopians (Jliad, i. 423) in which pas­sage the epithet " faultless" (ap£/u»>ff) implies notmoral but physical superiority (comp. Herod, iii. 20:suytcrot Km K&Wurroi ayOptbxwy vavrvv). "Men,"as Dr. Kenrick justly remarks, " groaning under theburden of the social state, have in every age beenprune to indulge in such pictures of ease and abun­dance as Herodotus, in the passages cited, and Pin­dar QJ'yth. x. 57) draw of countries beyond thelimits of geographical knowledge and of times beyondthe origin of history." If, then, we do not yield up the Macrobii to mythor fable altogether, we most seek fur them in somedistrict nearer Aegypt. Whatever tribe or regionCambyses intended to subdue, gold was abnndant,and brass, or rather copper, scarce among them.Now the modern inhabitants of Kordofan (15° 20'—10° N. lat., 28°—32° E. long.) are commonly calledNubah, and Nob is an old Aegyptiau word for gold.Ajain, the Macrobii were singularly tall, well pro-ptiruuned and healthy; and Kordofan has, from timeimmemorial, supplied the valley of the Nile withable-bodied and comely slaves of both sexes (Hume,ap. Walpok, Turkey, p. 392). Moreover, the ca­ravans bear with them, as marketable wares, wruughtand unwrought copper to this district. In 1821M jhammed Ali achieved what Cambyses failed inattempting. With less than 7000 men, half ofwhom indeed perished through fatigue and the cli­mate, he subdued all the countries contiguous to theNile as far as Sermaar and Kordofan inclusive: andthe objects which stimulated his expedition weregftid and slaves. We shall therefore perhaps notgreatly err in assigning to the Macrobii of Hero-d'«oj a local habitation much nearer than Abyssiniato the scat hern frontier of Aegypt, nor in suggestingthat their name, in the language of the Greeks, is aetwruption of the Semitic word Magrabi, i. e. thedwellers in the west. A position west of the Nilewould account also for the knowledge possessed bytae Icbthyophagi of Klepliantis (Bojah or BislmryeArabs) of the languages of the Macrobii. The modem Bisharyes occupy the country east ofthe Nile from Aegypt to Abyssinia; and their tradeand journeys extend from the Red Sea to Kordofan.If then we regard the Macrobii (the Magrabi) andthe Icbthyophagi (the Binharye) ss respectively seatedon the east and west banks of the Nile, the latterpeople will have been the most available guideswhom Cambyses could employ for exploring the landef the Macrubians. It should be remembered, however, that Herodotusderived bis knowledge of the Persian expeditionnther frxn the Persian conquerors of Aegypt, orfrom tli* Aegyptian priests themselves: neither ofwbnro would bo willing to disclose to an inquisitive VuL. tt. foreigner the actual situation of a land in which goldwas so abundant. By placing it in the far south,and exaggerating the hardships endured by thearmy of Cambyses, they might justly hope to deterstrangers from prying into the recesses of a regionfrom which themselves were deriving a profitablemonopoly. Upon the wonders of the Macrobian land it wouldbe hardly worth while to dwell, were they not insingular accordance with some known features in thephysical or commercial character of that region. Inthe southern portion of Kordofan the hills rise to aconsiderable height, and iron ore in some districts isplentiful. The fountain of health may thus havebeen one of several mineral springs. The ascriptionof extreme longevity to a people who dwelt in a hotand by no means healthy climate may be explainedby the supposition that, whereas many of the pastoraltribes in these regions put to death their old people,when no longer capable of moving from place toplace, the Macrobians abstained from so cruel apractice. The procerity of the king seems to implythat the chieftains of the Macrobii belonged to a dif­ferent race from their subjects (compare Scylax, ap.Aristot. vii. p. 1332). "The Table of the Sun" isthe market-place in which trade, or rather barter,was carried on with strangers, according to a prac­tice mentioned by Cosmas, the Indian mariner, whodescribes the annual fairs of southern Aethiopia interms not unlike those employed by Herodotus in hisaccount of the Macrobians (pp'. 138,139). [W. B. D.J MACROCE'PHALI (Mojcj>Ui«VAoi), that is,"people with long heads." (Strab. i. p. 43.) TheSiginni, a barbarous tribe about Mount Caucasus,artificially contrived to lengthen their heads as muchas possible. (Strab. xi. p. 520; comp. Hippocr.de Aer. 35.) It appears that owing to this customthey were called Macrocephali; at least Plinyvi. 4), Pomp. Mela (i. 19), and Scylax (p. 33),speak of k nation of this name in the north-east ofPontus. The anonymous author of the Peripl.Pont. Eux. (p. 14) regards them as the same peopleas the Macrones, but Pliny (I. c.) clearly distin­guishes the two. [L. S.] MACRO'NES (MOA'fWFcs), a powerful tribe inthe east of Pontus, about the Moschici moun­tains. They are described as wearing garmentsmade of hair, and as using in war woodenhelmets, small shields of wicker-work, and shortlances with long points. (Herod, ii. 104, vii. 78;Xenoph. Anab. iv. 8. § 3, v. 5. § 18, vii. 8.§ 25; comp. Hecat. Fragm. 191; Scylax, p. 33;Dionys. Pcrieg. 766; Apollon. Rliod. ii. 22; Plin.vi. 4; Joseph, c. Apion. i. § 22, who as.-ertsthat they observed the custom of circumcision )Strabo (xii. p. 548) remarks, in pasting, that thepeople formerly called Macrones bore in his day thename of Sanni, though Pliny (/. c.) speaks of theSanni and Macrones as two distinct peoples. Theyappear to have always been a rude and wild tribe,until civilisation and Christianity were introducedamong thein in the rei;;n of Justinian. (Procop.Bell. Pers. i. 15, Bell. Goth. iv. 2, de Aed. iii.6.) [L. S.] MACRON TEICHOS (Mtutphy t«xoj), alsocalled " the wall of Anastasius," was a fortificationconstructed in A. D. 507, by the emperor Anasta­sius I. of Constantinople, as a means of defence againstthe Bulgarians: it consisted of a strong wall run­ning across the isthmus of Constantinople, from the. coast of the Propoutis to that of the Euxinc. R