OCR Output ROMA. ROMA. 853 \.Uf. (irorge Fabricius, of Chemnitr, author ofnii<ptitat*m Libri If., Basle, 1550, accused Pan-aiu of dealing from him; but if such was the■*. !.e frmtfJy improved what he purloined. Jeant |im H issinj, of Besancon, published at Frank-- to 1597 a Topogruphia Romanae Urbis, whicli:vt of much value; but the sketches in his col-r.;i.«i-rf inscriptions liave preserved the aspect ofjrytliingi that have now disappeared. The next■ri nf u\y note is the Roma Vetus et Recerts of theAlex. iKaiatua of Siena, in which particularremon wai paid to the illustration of HomanWmpby hr passages in ancient authors. It wasMtbedatRt <ne, 1638. 4to, and also in the The-v%* <A Graevius, vol. iii. But this productioni' Mm obscured by the more celebrated work ofauouo Nardini, the Roma Antica. which marks*pch in Roman Topography, and long enjoyed ar*-want authority. So late as the year 1818. characterised Nardini as "to this dayr nut serviceable conductor.'" (tlist. Illustrations'Wii< Harold, p. 54.) Yet. in many respects,*h an incompetent guide. He knew no Greek; the works of the pseudo-Regionaries for the*k:ion of his bonk; and it is even affirmed that,o^i be lived in Rome, he had never visited manyII* buildings which be describes. (Bunscn, Vor-> -v.- Btsrhreibung. p. xxxix.) His work wasMed at Rome, 1668, 4to; but the best editionfi w tbe 4th. edited by Nibby, Home. 1818,•<■'•- fwi There is a Latin translation of it inBvias,vol iv. In 1680, Raphael Fabretti. ofiv, secretary to Card inn I Ottoboni, published aij''> »ork, he Aquaeductibtts, which *ili alsor v. t in the same volume of Graevius.f«anla tbe end of the 17th century two learnedtris iVnediclines. Mabillon and M"iitfaucon,knd mocfa service to Roman topography. Ma-«tnt (aiUished the Anonymus Einsicdlensis inUjccifl (rol. iv. p. 50, seq.) Montfaucon,»pnU two years and a halt in Rome (1698—'J ., verted in his J>utrium Italicum a descrip-lot city divided into twenty days. Thei ckapter contains a copy of the M'trabilia. In"(>laaa Bomcuius published a topographicalit </ Hunt, according to the Regions. It is inlib vtfaiM of Graevius, The work of the Mar-I-. m!Soo Yenuti, entitled Accurata e succintanaimr Topograjica delle Antichita di Roma1763, 3 Vols. 4ta), is a book of more pre-•f■*- Venuti took most of his work from Nar-uA Piranesi, and the new matter that he added■Watly erroneous. The 4th edition by Slefanof. K-o*. 1824. is the best. Francesco Fico- * IVanyu e Rarita di Roma Antica (IIonia, * *'■*.) i* not a very satisfactory performance.*■■! tfrrtal portions of it have been inserted in MiniLmea of Fea (part i. pp. 118—178).* 'k of oar countryman Andrew Lumisden,»Wi vn tkt Antu/uitirs of Rome and its En-■»',Ij»doa, 1797, 4to.) was, in its day, a book■* ■sthority. Many valuable observations ont*Wapby are scattered in the works of thef'taetano Marini, and es]>ecially in his A Hirnltlli Arrafi; bat he treated the subject onlv"aJv. The same remark applies to Visconti.W tlftcritta td illustmta (Roma, 180*5,t *t*),of the Abhatc Guattani is the parent of*4 ih" modern guide books. Antonio Nibbyseveral useful works on Roman topo-hj, which, if sometimes deficient in accurate scholarship, display nevertheless considerable acute-ness and knowledge of the subject. His principalworks are, Del Foro Romano, delta Via Sacra, tfc,Roma, 1819. 8vo.; Le Mura di Roma, disegnateda Sir W. Gell, illustr. da A. Nibby, Roma, 1820;and Ins Roma Antica, published in 1838. SirWin. Gell's Topography of Rome and its Vicinity(2nd Edit., revised and enlarged by Bunbury, Lon­don, 1846) contains some useful information. TheMiscellanea flologica, critica ed antiquaria (Rome,1790). and the Suova Descrizione di Roma (Rome,1820, 3 vols. 8vo.), by Carlo Fea, are useful works,liobhnuse's Historical I (lustrations of ChUde Harold,icith Dissertations on the Ruins of Rome (London,2nd ed. 1818, dvo.) arc chiefly valuable for their ac­count of the gradual destruction of the city. Theworks of two other Englishmen are now out of dateviz. Edward Burton's Description of Hie Antiqui­ties of Rome (Oxf. 1821 ; London, 1828, 2 vols.8vo.); and the Rev. Richard Burgess's Topographyand Antiquities of Rome (Loudon, 1831, 2 vols.8vo.). Forsyth's Italy is of little service for Rome.Sachsc's (Jeschichte und Reschreibung der alien StadtRom (Hanover, 1824—1828, 2 vols. 8vo.), thoughstill in some respects a useful production, must nowbe regarded as superseded by more recent works. We are now arrived at the Reschreibung derStadt Rom, with which may be said to commencethe modern epoch of Roman topography. This workwas projected in 1817 by some German literatithen residing at Rome, among whom were thepresent Chevalier Bunsen, and Ernst Rlatner,Eduard Gerhard and Wilhelm Rostcll. They werejoined by the celebrated historian B. G. Niebuhr,who undertook the superintendence of the ancientpart; for the scheme of the l»ook embraced a com­plete description of the modern city, with all itstreasures of art, U'sides an account of ancient Rome.It is, However, of course only with the latter thatwe are hen? concerned, which was undertaken byNiebuhr. Iiunsen. and subsequently L. Urlichs.Niebuhr's connection with the work was not of longduration, and only a few of the descriptions arefrom his hand, which form the most valuableportion of the book. The views of the Germanscholars threatened a complete revolution in Romantopography. They seemed to have coine to Romewith the express design of overturning the papercity, na their ancestors many centuries before hadsubverted the stone one. In extent and accuracy oferudition they were far superior to their Italianantagonists; but this advantage is often more thancounterbalanced by that want of sober and criticalgood sense which so frequently mars the produc­tions of German scholars. They have succeeded iuthrowing doubt upon a great deal, but have esta­blished very little iu its place. To I'iale, and notto the Germans, belongs the merit of having re­established the true situation of the forum, whichmay be considered as the most important step inthe modem topography of Rome. The Germanviews respecting the Capitol, the comitium. andseveral other important points, have found manyfollowers; but to the writer of the present articlethey appear for the most part not to be proved; andhe has endeavoured in the preceding pages to givehis reasons for that opinion. It cannot be denied, however, that the appearanceof the Reschreibung did good service to the cause ofRoman tof-ography, by awakening a sharper andmore extended spirit of inquiry. The first vu 3 I 3