OCR Output 234 ROMAN EMPIRE. empire, was exalted to reign over their conquerors. HisA. -96'- father Henry the Fowler was elected, by thesuffrage of the nation, to save and institute the king足dom of Germany. Its limits0 were enlarged on everyside by his son, the first and greatest of the Othos. Aportion of Gaul, to the west of the Rhine, along thebanks of the Meuse and the Moselle, was assigned tothe Germans, by whose blood and language it has beentinged since the time of Caesar and Tacitus. Betweenthe Rhine, the Rhone, and the Alps, the successors ofOtho acquired a vain supremacy over the broken king足doms of Burgundy and Arles. In the north, Christianitywas propagated by the sword of Otho, the conquerorand apostle of the Slavic nations of the Elbe and Oder;the marches of Brandenburg and Sleswick were fortifiedwith German colonies; and the king of Denmark, thedukes of Poland and Bohemia, confessed themselveshis tributary vassals. At the head of a victorious army,he passed the Alps, subdued the kingdom of Italy, de足livered the pope, and for ever fixed the imperial crownin the name and nation of Germany. From that me足morable era, two maxims of public jurisprudence wereintroduced by force and ratified by time. I. That theprince who was elected in the German diet, acquiredfrom that instant the subject kingdoms of Italy andRome. II. But that he might not legally assume thetitles of emperor and Augustus, till be had received thecrown from the hands of the Roman pontiff.d ^he imperial dignity of Charlemagne wasannounced to the east by the alteration of hisand eaitem style; and instead of saluting his fathers, theempires. Qreeij emperors, he presumed to adopt the c See the treatise of Coringius (de Finibus Imperil Gennanici, Francofurt. 1680,in quarto), be rejects the extravagant and improper scale of the Roman and Carlo-vingian empires, and discusses with moderation the rights of Germany, her vassals,and her neighbours. d The power of custom forces me to number Conrad L and Henry I. the Fowler,in the list of emperors, a title which was never assumed by those kings of Germany.The Italians, Muratori, for instance, are more scrupulous and correct, and onlyreckon the princes who have been crowned at Rome.