OCR Output 178 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIt. that lay upon the road, (and as it was not possible for him to goany other way, so he was not willing to go back again), he thensent to the inhabitants, and desired that they would open theirgates, and permit them to go on their way through the city, forthey had stopped up the gates with stones, and cut off their pas­sage through it. And when the inhabitants of Ephron would notagree to this proposal, he encouraged those that were with him,and encompassed the city round, and besieged it, and lyinground it by day and night, took the city, and slew every malein it, and burnt it all down, and so obtained a way through it;and the multitude of those that were slain was so great, that theywent over the dead bodies. So they came over Jordan, and ar­rived at the great plain, over against which is situate the cityBethshan, which is called by the Greeks * Scythopolis. Andgoing away hastily from thence, they came into Judea, singingpsalms and hymns as they went, andindulging such tokens of mirthas are usual in triumphs upon victory. They also offered thank-offerings, both for their good success, and for the preservation oftheir army, for -f- not one of the Jews was slain in these battles. 6. But as to Joseph, the son of Zacharias, and Azarias, whomJudas left generals [of the rest of the forces] at the same timewhen in Galilee, fighting against the people of Ptolemais, andJudas himself and his brother Jonathan, were in the land of Gi-lead, did these men also affect the glory of being courageous ge­nerals in war, in order whereto they took the army that wasunder their command, and came to Jamnia. There Gorgias, thegeneral of the forces of Jamnia, met them; and upon joining bat­tle with him, they lost \. two thousand of their army, and fledaway, and were pursued to the very borders of Judea. And thismisfortune befell them by their disobedience to what injunctionsJudas had given them, "Not to fight with any one before his"return." For besides the rest of Judas' sagacious counsels, one * The reason why Betbsban was called Scythopolis, is well known from Hero­dotus, B. I. p. 105, and Syncellus, p. 214. that the Scythians, when they overranAsia, in the days of Josiah, seized on this city, and kept it as long as they continuedin Asia, from which time it retained the name of Scythopolis, or the city of the Scy­thians. f This roost providential preservation of all the religious Jews in this expedition,which was according to the will of God, is observable often among God's peoplethe Jews; and somewhat very like it in the changes of the four monarchies, whichwere also providential. See Prideaux at the years 331, 333, and 334. \ Here is another great instance of providence, that when, even at the very timethat Simon, and Judas, and Jonathan, were so miraculously preserved, and blessedin the just defence of their laws and religion, these other generals of the Jews whowent to fight for honour, in a vain-glorious way, and without any commission fromGod, or the family he had raised up to deliver them, were miserably disappoiutcdand defeated. See 1 Maccab. v. 61, 62.