OCR Output aN. H92.J 149 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. to be destroyed by these Canaanites, but tosuppose that they should be saved by thosethat came for the destruction of the Canaan­ites, because of the league of friendship thatwas between them. Accordingly Joshua has­tened with his whole army to assist them, and,marching day and night, in the morning hefell upon the enemies as they were going up * Josh. x. 11. t This miracle is thus related in holy writ: "Joshuasaid, in the sight of all Israel, Sun, stand thou still uponGibeon, and thou Moon in the valley of Ajalon; and thesua stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people hadavenged themselves of their enemies. Is not this writtenin the book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midstof heaven, and hastened not to go down about a wholeday; and there was no day like that, before it or after it,that the Lord hearkened unto the voice of a man; for theLord fought for Israel." (Josh. x. 12, &c.) Now, forthe better understanding of these words, we must ob­serve,— I. That nothing is more common in Scripture, than toexpress things, not according to the strict rules of philoso­phy, but according to their appearances, and the vulgarapprehension concerning them. The sun and moon, forinstance, are called two great lights; (Gen. i. 16.) buthowever that title may agree with the sun, it is plain, thatthe moon is but a small body, the least that has yet beendiscovered in the planetary system, and that it has no lightat all, but what it borrows, and reflects from the rays ofthe sun; and yet, because it is placed near us, it appearsto us larger than other heavenly luminaries, and from thatappearance the holy Scriptures give it such an appellation. And in like manner, because the sun seems to us tomove, and the earth to be at rest, the Scriptures speak agreat deal of the pillars, and basis, and foundations, of theearth, and of the sun's, rejoicing, like a giant, to run itsrace, (Psalm xix. 5.) and of his arising, and going do-am,and hasting to the place where it arose, <$-c. (Eccles. i. 6.)Whereas it is certain, that if the sun were made to revolveround about the earth, the general law of nature wouldthereby be violated; the harmony and proportion of theheavenly bodies destroyed; and no small confusion anddisorder brought into the frame of the universe; but, onthe contrary, if the earth turned upon its own axis everyday, be made to go round the sun in the space of a year,it will then perform its circulation, according to the samelaw which the other planets observe; and, without theleast exception, there will be a most beautiful order andharmony of motions every where preserved through thewhole frame of nature. As therefore the Scriptures weredesigned to teach us the art of holy living, and not to in­struct us in the rudiments of natural knowledge, it can bedeemed no diminution either to their perfection, or divineauthority, that they generally speak according to the com­mon appearance of things, and not according to their realityor philosophic truth. The plain matter of fact is, that inthe early ages, both before, and long after the days ofJoshua, the most learned astronomers had no notion of theimprovements which our modern professors have since-attained to. They never once dreamed of the earth's ro­tation upon its own axis ; but according to common appear­ance, were fully persuaded, that the sun and moon, had to the siege, and when he had discomfitedthem, he followed and pursued them downthe descent of the hills. The place is calledBeth-horon, where he also understood thatGod assisted him, which he declared by thun­der and thunderbolts, as also by the falling ofhail* larger than usual. Moreover it hap­pened that the day was lengthened,f that the their respective courses. Upon this supposition theyformed their schemes, and thought themselves able to an­swer every phenomenon by them. And therefore, if Godhad prompted Joshua to desire the prolongation of the dayin a manner more agreeable to our new astronomy, or torecord the miracle in terms more suitable to it, this wouldhave been a plain contrariety to all the rules of sciencethen in use. The people who heard him utter the words,Earth, rest upon thy axis, would have thought him dis­tracted, and those who read his account of what had hap­pened, if related in suitable expressions, would have de­cried it as false in fact, or passed it by with contempt anddisregard, as a wild fancy or blunder of his own. | II. In relation to the places over which the two hea­venly bodies were to stand, the sun over Gibeon and themoon over the valley Ajalon. we must observe, that (evenupon the supposition of the sun's motion) the Jewisn ge­neral cannot be thought to speak in a proper and philo­sophical sense. For since the sun is almost a million oftimes bigger than the earth, and 95 millions of miles dis­tant from it, to justify the strict sense of the words, a linedrawn from the centre of the sun to that of the earth, mustexactly pass by Gibeon, which we know it cannot do, be­cause no part of the Holy Land lies within the tropics; andtherefore we must conclude, that Joshua here speaks ac­cording to the outward appearance of things, which makesthe sense of his words plain and intelligible. | Wherever we are, (if so be we are not hindered by ob­jects immediately surrounding us,) we can cast our eyesupon part of the surface of the earth, and at the same timetake into our prospect some small extent of the firmamentof heaven, which seems, as it were, to cover the other;and each celestial body which we perceive in this extentabove, appears to us to be directly over such and suchpart of the earth, as we alternately turn our eyes to: andit is thus, that the sun, when Joshua spake, seemed tohim, and to those that were with him, to he over Gibeon,and the moon to be over the valley of Ajalon. This valley,in all likelihood, took its name from some adjacent town;but then, as there are three Ajalons mentioned in scrip­ture, one in the tribe of Ephraim, (1 Chron. vi. 69.)another in Zabulon, (Judg. xii. 12.) and another in Dan,(Josh. xix. 42.) it is reasonable to think, that the placehere spoken ofwas in Dan, the most remote province inGibeon; for we must suppose that these two places wereat some considerable distance, otherwise Joshua could notsee the sun and moon both appear at the same time, as itis probable they were both in his eye, when he utteredthese words. III. In relation to the time when this miracle began,and how long it lasted, the Scripture's expression is, thatthe sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not togo down about a whole day; which words can import noless, than that the sun stood still in the meridian, or muchabout noon, and that in this position it continued for th - Mm2