OCR Output 246 PREFACE. language of our country, and sent to the Upper Barbarians *; I'Joseph, the son of Matthias, by birth an Hebrew, a priest also,and one who at first fought against the Romans myself, and wasforced to be present at what was done afterwards, [am the authorof this work]. 2. Now at the time when this great concussion of affairs happen足ed, the affairs of the Romans were themselves in great disorder.Those Jews also, who were for innovations, then arose when thelimes were disturbed ; they were also in a flourishing conditionfor strength and riches, insomuch that the affairs of the east werethen exceeding tumultuous, while some hoped for gain, andothers were afraid of loss in such troubles ; for the Jews hopedthat all of their nation which were beyond Euphrates wouldhave raised an insurrection together with them. The Galls al足so, in the neighbourhood of the Romans, were in motion, and theCelta e were not quiet ; but all was in disorder after the death ofNero. And the opportunity now offered induced many to aimat the royal power ; and the soldiery affected change, out of thehopes of getting money. L thought it therefore an absurd thingto see the truth falsified in affairs of such great consequence,and to take no notice of it; but to suffer those Greeks and Ro足mans that were not in the wars to be ignorant of these things, andto read either flatteries or fictions, while the Parthians, and theBabylonians, and the remotest Arabians, and those of our nationbeyond Euphrates, with the Adiabeni, by my means, knew accu足rately both whence the war begun, what miseries it broughtupon us, and after what manner it ended. 3. It is true, these writers have the confidence to call theiraccounts histories ; wherein yet they seem to me to fail of theirown purpose, as well as to relate nothing that is found. Forthey have a mind to demonstrate the greatness of the Romans,while they still diminish and lessen the actions of the Jews; as not"discerning how it cannot be that those must appear to be greatwho have only conquered those that were little. Nor are theyashamed to overlook the length of the war, the multitude of theRoman forces who so greatly suffered in it, or the might of thecommanders; whose great labours about Jerusalem will be.deemed inglorious, if what they atchieved be reckoned but a:small matter. 4. However, * Who these Upper Barbarians, remote from the sea, were, Josephus himselfwill inform us, sect. 2. viz. the Parthians and Babylonians, and remotest Arabi.ans [or the Jews among them] ; besides the Jews beyond Euphrates, and theAdiabeni, or Assyrians. Whence we also learn, that these Parthians, Babylo.nians, the remotest Arabians [or at least the Jews among them], as also theJews beyond Euphrates, and tiie Adiibeni, or Assyrians, understood Josephus'sHebrew, or rather Chaldiac, books of the Jewish War, before they were put intothe Greek language. ,