OCR Output B.V. THE PELOPONNESIAN WAR. 5 He met also in his course with those Locrians, whowere going to another settlement, after expulsion fromMessene. They had been driven to this necessity by se­ditious factions at Messene, one of which had invitedthem thither since the joint-accommodation among the Si­cilians; and now they were forced to shift again, thoughMessene had for a time been entirely in their power.Phæax therefore, meeting with these in their removal,gave them no annoyance; for the Locrians had been ata conference with him, to concert the measures of an a-greement with the Athenians. These, however, werethe only party of all the consederates, who, when theSicilians had amicably ended their disputes, refused totreat with the Athenians, and were brought to suchsubmission since merely by a war, in which they wereembroiled against the Itonians and Meleans, who bor­dered upon them, and were colonies of their own. And,some time after this, Phæax truly returned to Athens. But Cleon, who from Torone was gone about by seaagainst Amphipolis, marching away fron Ei'on, makeihan assault upon Stagirus, a colony of Andrians, butwithout success; yet Galepfus, a colony of the Thasians,he taketh by storm. He sent farther embassadors to'Perdiccas, to summon his attendance in the expedition,according to the tenor of the new alliance. He sent o-thers into Thrace to Polles, king of the Odomantians,that he would hire as large a body of Thracians as couldbegot, and bring them up under his own orders. And,during this interval, he himself lay quiet at Eton. But Brasidas, informed of these proceedings, placedhimself in an opposite post at Cerdilium. This place be-longeth to the Argilians, and is seated on an eminenceon the other side of the river, and at no great distancefrom Amphipolis. From hence he had a perfect viewof all Clton's motions; so that now it was impossible forthe latter to make any approach with his army, fromthence to Amphipolis, without being discovered. Bra­sidas, however, suspected that Cleon would approach, B 3 and,