OCR Output 62 LIVY. public quarrel, but by their private emolument. Thusreduced, the Samnites sued to the dictator for peace;and after they had engaged to supply each of his sol­diers with a suit of clothes and a year's pay, beingordered to apply to the senate, they answered thatthey would follow the dictator, committing their causewholly to his integrity and honor. On this the troopswere withdrawn out of Samnium. 37. [A.U.C. 431. B.C. 321.] The dictator enteredthe city in triumph; and though desirous of resigninghis office immediately, yet, by order of the senate, heheld it until the consuls were elected: these were CaiusSulpicius Longus, a second time, and Quintus jEmiliusCerretanus. The Samnites, without finishing the treatyof peace, the terms being still in negotiation, departed,after concluding a truce for a year. Nor was even thatfaithfully observed, so strongly was their inclinationfor war excited on hearing that Papirius was gone outof office. In this consulate of Caius Sulpicius andQuintus jEmilius (some histories have Aulius), to therevolt of the Samnites was added a new war with theApulians. Armies were sent against both. The Sam­nites fell by lot to Sulpicius, the Apulians to iEmilius.Some writers say that this war was not waged with theApulians, but in defence of the allied states of that na­tion against the violence and injustice of the Samnites.But the circumstances of the Samnites at that period,when they were themselves engaged in a war, whichthey could with difficulty support, render it more pro­bable that they did not make war on the Apulians, butthat both nations were in arms against the Romans atthe same time. However, no memorable event oc­curred. The lands of the Apulians and Samnium wereutterly laid waste; but in neither quarter did theenemy show themselves. At Rome an alarm, whichhappened in the night, suddenly roused the peoplefrom their sleep in such a fright, that the capitol andcitadel, the walls and gates, were all filled with men inarms. But after they had called all to their posts, andrun together in bodies in every quarter, when day ap-