OCR Output 122 LIVY. against the latter : this is a name more hostile to yourliberty by far than that of the Tarquinii. I pray you,Appius Claudius, this being now the hundredth yearsince the dictatorship of Mamercus jEmilius, duringwhich period so many men of the highest charactersand abilities have filled that office, did none of theseever read the twelve tables ? None of them know,that whatever was the last order of the people, thatwas law? Nay, certainly they all knew it ; and theytherefore obeyed the jEmilian law rather than the oldone, under which the censors had been at first created ;because it was the last order ; and because, when twolaws are contradictory, the new always repeals theold. Do you mean to say, Appius, that the peopleare not bound by the jEmilian law? or, that the peo足ple are bound, and you alone exempted? The jEmilianlaw bound those violent censors, Caius Furius andMarcus Geganius, who showed what mischief thatoffice might do in the state ; when, out of resentmentfor the limitation of their power, they disfranchisedMamercus jEmilins, the first man of the age, either inwar or peace. It bound all the censors thenceforward,during the space of a hundred years. It binds CaiusPlautius your colleague, created under the same aus足pices, with the same privileges. Did not the peoplecreate him with the fullest privileges with which anycensor ever was created? Or is yours an exceptedcase, in which this singularity peculiarly takes place ?Shall the person whom you create king of the sacri足fices, laying hold of the style of sovereignty, say thatlie was created with the fullest privileges with whichany king was ever created at Rome ? who then do youthink would be content with a dictatorship of sixmonths? Who with the office of interrex for five days ?Whom would you, with confidence, create dictator forthe purpose of driving the nail, or of exhibiting games?How foolish, how stupid, do you think, those must ap足pear in this man's eyes, who, after performing mostimportant services, abdicated the dictatorship withinthe twentieth day ; or who, being irregularly created,