OCR Output CHAP. XLI.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. provide all the instruments of attack which antiquity hadinvented. Fascines were prepared to fill the ditches,scaling ladders to ascend the walls. The largest treesof the forest supplied the timbers of four battering rams;their heads were armed with iron; they were suspendedby ropes, and each of them was worked by the labour offifty men. The lofty wooden turrets moved on wheels orrollers, and formed a spacious platform of the level of therampart. On the morning of the nineteenth day, a ge­neral attack was made from the Preenestine gate to theVatican: seven Gothic columns, with their military en­gines, advanced to the assault; and the Romans wholined the ramparts, listened with doubt and anxiety tothe cheerful assurances of their commander. As soonas the enemy approached the ditch, Belisarius himselfdrew the first arrow; and such was his strength anddexterity, that he transfixed the foremost of the barba­rian leaders. A shout of applause and victory was re­echoed along the wall. He drew a second arrow, andthe stroke was followed with the same success and thesame acclamation. The Roman general then gave theword, that the archers should aim at the teams of oxen;they were instantly covered with mortal wounds; thetowers which they drew, remained useless and immove­able, and a single moment disconcerted the laborious pro­jects of the king of the Goths. After this disappoint­ment, Vitiges still continued, or feigned to continue, theassault of the Salarian gate, that he might divert theattention of his adversary, while his principal forces morestrenuously attacked the Praenestine gate and the sepul­chre of Hadrian, at the distance of three miles from eachother. Near the former, the double walls of the Viva­rium"1 were low or broken; the fortification of the latterwere feebly guarded: the vigour of the Goths was ex­cited by the hope of victory and spoil; and if a single 1 Vivarium was an angle in Ibe new wall, inclosed for wild beasts. (Procopins,Goth, lib.l. c. 23.) The spot is still visible in Nardini, (lib. 4. c. 2. p. 159, 160.)ind Nolli's great plan of Rome. N 1