OCR Output CHAP. XL.] OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. temple; almost every city of the empire obtained thesolid advantages of bridges, hospitals, and aqueducts;but the severe liberality of the monarch disdained to in­dulge his subjects in the popular luxury of baths andtheatres. While Justinian laboured for the public ser­vice, he was not unmindful of his own dignity and ease.The Byzantine palace, which had been damaged by theconflagration, was restored with new magnificence; andsome notions may be conceived of the whole edifice, bythe vestibule or hall, which, from the doors perhaps, orthe roof, was surnamed choice, or the brazen. Thedome of a spacious quadrangle was supported by massypillars; the pavement and walls were incrusted withmany coloured marbles—the emerald green of Laconia;the fiery red, and the white Phrygian stone intersectedwith veins of a sea-green hue: the mosaic paintings ofthe dome and sides represented the glories of the Africanand Italian triumphs. On the Asiatic shore of the Pro-pontis, at a small distance to the east of Chalcedon, thecostly palace and gardens of Heraeum'' were prepared forthe summer residence of Justinian; and more especiallyTheodora. The poets of the age have celebrated therare alliance of nature and art, the harmony of thenymphs of the groves, the fountains, and the waves;yet the crowd of attendants who followed the court com­plained of their inconvenient lodgings,' and the nymphswere too often alarmed by the famous Porphyrio, awhale of ten cubits in breadth, and thirty in length, whowas stranded at the mouth of the river Sangaris, after hehad infested more than half a century the seas of Con­stantinople.5 i For the Heraenm, the palace of Theodora, see Gyllius (da Bosphoro Thraciot,lib. 3. c. 11.) Aleman. (Not. ad Aneodot. p. 80, 81. who quotes sereral epigrams ofthe Anthology,( and Ducange (C P. Christ. lib. 4. o. 13. p. 175,176.) _r Compare, in the Edifices, (lib. 1. c. 11.) aud in the Anecdotes, (c. 8—15.) thedifferent styles of adulation and malevolence: stripped of the paint, or cleansed fromthe dirt, the object appears to be the same. * Preoopius, lib. 8.29. most prohably a stranger and wanderer, as the Mediterra­nean does not breed whales. Balaenae quoque in nostra maria penetrant. (Plin. Hist,JNatur. 9. 2.) Between the polar circle and the tropic, the cetaceous animals of tha H 2