OCR Output CHAP. XLIX. 243 has accused the second Otho of a perfidious and bloodyact, the massacre of the senators, whom he had invitedto his table under the fair semblance of hospitality andfriendship." In the minority of his son Otho III.,Rome made a bold attempt to shake off the Saxon yoke,and the consul Crescentius was the Brutus ofId Cres?"" ti1e republic. From the condition of a subjectcensus, and an exile, he twice rose to the command of A.D.998. i the city, oppressed, expelled, and created thepopes, and formed a conspiracy for restoring the autho­rity of the Greek emperors. In the fortress of St. Anrgelo, he maintained an obstinate siege, till the unfortu­nate consul was betrayed by a promise of safety: hisbody was suspended on a gibbet, and his head wasexposed on the battlements of the castle. By a reverseof fortune, Otho, after separating his troops, was be­sieged three days, without food, in his palace; and adisgraceful escape saved him from the justice or furyof the Romans. The senator Ptolemy was the leaderof the people, and the widow of Crescentius enjoyedthe pleasure or the fame of revenging her husband bya poison which she administered to her imperial lover.It was the design of Otho III. to abandon the rudercountries of the north, to erect his throne in Italy, andto revive the institutions of the Roman monarchy. Buthis successors only once in their lives appeared on thebanks of the Tiber, to receive their crown in the Vati­can.11 Their absence was contemptible, their presenceodious and formidable. They descended from theAlps, at the head of their barbarians, who were stran­gers and enemies to the country; and their transient * Thia bloody feast is described in Leonine verse in the Pantheon of Godfrey ofViterbo, (Script. Ital. torn. 7. p. 436, 437.) who flourished towards the end of thetwelfth century; (Fabricius, Bibliot. Latin, med. et infimi tEvi, torn. 3. p. 69.edit Mansi) but his evidence, which imposed on Sigonius, is reasonably suspectedby Muratori. (Annali, torn. 8. p. 177.) * The coronation of the emperor, and some original ceremonies of the tenthcentury, are preserved in the Panegyric on Berengarius, (Script. Ital. torn. 2.pare i. 405—414.) illustrated by the notes of Hadrian, Valerius, and Leibnitz.Sigonius has related the whole process of the Roman expedition in good Latin,but with some errors of time and fact. (lib. 7. p. 441—146.) K2