OCR Output LIGURIA. LIGURIA. 185 yrvpilto ns, we find perpetually recurring notices ofcampaigns against the Ligurians; and while the Ro­man arms were overthrowing the powerful empires ofMacedonia and Syria in the East, one, and some­time* both, of the consuls were engaged in petty andinglorious hostilities with the hardy mountaineers ofLiguria. But the annual records of these cam­paigns for the most part throw little light on thetrue btate of the case or the progress of the Romananna. It is evident, indeed, that, notwithstandingthe nften repeated tales of victories, frequently cele­brated »t Koine by triumphs, and often said to haveWn followed by the submission of the whole Ligu-rian nation, the struggle was really an arduous one,ami it was long before the Romans made any realprogress in the reduction of their territory. One of the most formidable and powerful of theLigurian tribes was that of the ApUANI, who in-Iuhitttl the lofty group of mountains bordering onEtroria, and appear to have occupied the valleys oftin? Macra and Ausar {Magra and Serchw), whilethey extended eastwards along the chain of theA]*nnmes to the frontiers of the Arretines andthe territory of Mutina and Bononia. To opposetheir iiiroaiis, the Romans generally made Risae theLead-qaarters of one of their armies, and from thencecirried their arms into the heart of the mountains:bat their succe«tes seldom effected more than tocompel the enemy to disperse and take refuge intheir villages and castles, of which the latter weremountain fastnesses in which they were generallyable to defy the Roman arms. It was not till B. c.180 that the first effectual step was taken for theirreduction, by the consuls Cornelius and Baebius,*no. after having compelled them to a nominal sub-irLwion, adopted the expedient of transporting the*Me nation (to the number of 40,000, includingwomen and children) to a distance from their ownr»«ntiy, and settled them in the heart of Samnium,where they continued to exist, under the name of"Litres Corneliani et Baebiani," for centuries after-war.l*. (Liv. xl. 38, 41.) The establishment ofk-tnan colonic at Pisae and Luca a few years after-winls tended to consolidate the conquest thus ob­tained, and established the Roman dominion per-moently as far as the Macra and the port of Luna,(llxl. 43. xli. 13.) The Fkiniates, a tribe ontl* N. of the Apennines, near the sources of theSriil'enna (Panaro), had been reduced to subjectionhr C. Flaminius in B. c. 187, and the obscure tribes<i* the Briniates, Garnli, Hercates, and Lapicini ap-\-v to have been finally subdued in b. c. 175.(Id. xxxix. 2, xli. 19.) The Ingai ni, one of theBw*t powerful tribes on the coast to the \V. ofGenoa, had been reduced to nominal submission astiriy ** b.c 181) but appear to have been stillurj imperfectly subdued; and they, as well as theirBetfhbours the Intemelii, continued to harass thetfritwy of the Romans, as well as of their allies theJU-wlians, by piratical expeditions. (Liv. xl. 18,IS—28, 41.) In b. c. 173 the Statiklli werefttiwed to subjection (Id. xlii. 8, y); and the name*f (Lis j>-ople, which here appears for the first time,*hw» that the Komans were gradually, thought'-My, making good their advance towards the \V.rram the year 167 B.C., when we lose the guidance>i Lvy, -we are unable to trace the Liguriun wars iniot liruil. but we find triumphs over them still re-i*»:*oly recorded, ami it is evident that they were•nil mtahdued. In B.C. 154 the Romans for thefiw tia* attacked the Ligurian tribes of the Oxybii and Deciates, who dwelt W. of the Varus, and weretherefore not included in Italy, according to its laterlimits. (Liv. Epit. xlvii.; Polyb. xxxiii. 7.) Itwas not till more than thirty years afterwards(b.c 123—122) that two successive triumphs ce­lebrated the reduction of the more powerful tribes ofthe Vocontii and Salluvii, both of them in the sameneighbourhood. But while the Ligurian tribes W.of the Maritime Alps were thus brought graduallyunder the Roman yoke, it appears that the subjec­tion of those in Italy was still incomplete; and inB.C. 117, Q. Marcius for the last time earned a tri­umph "de Liguribus." {Fast. Capit.) Even afterthis, M. Aemilius Scaurus is said to have distin­guished himself by fre;-.h successes over them; andthe construction by him (b. c. 109) of the ViaAemilia, which extended along the coast from Lunato Vada Sabbnta, and from thence inland across theApennines to Dertona, may be considered as markingthe period of the final subjugation of Liguria.(Strab. v. p. 217; Aur. Vict, de Vir. Illustr. 72.)But a remarkable expression of Strabo, who saysthat, after eighty years of warfare, the Romans onlysucceeded in securing a space of 12 stadia in breadthfor the free passage of public officers, shows thateven at this time the subjection of the mountaintribes was but imperfect. (Strab. iv. p. 203.)Those which inhabited the Maritime Alps, indeed,were not finally reduced to obedience till the reign ofAugustus, b. c. 14. (Dion Cass. liv. 24.) This had,however, been completely effected at the time thatStrabo wrote, and Liguria had been brought underthe same system of administration with the- rest otItaly. (Strab. I.e.") The period at which the Ligu-rians obtained the Roman franchise is unknown : it isperhaps probable that the towns obtained this privi­lege at the same time with those of Ci.-alpine Gaul(B.C. 89); but the mountain tribes, even in thedays of Pliny, only enjoyed the Latin franchise,(l'lin. iii. 20. s. 24.) In the division of Italy under Augustus, Liguria(in the more limited sense, as already defined) con­stituted the ninth region (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 7), and itsboundaries on the K. and W. appear to have con­tinued unchanged throughout the period of the RomanEmpire: but the Cottian Alps, which in the time ofAugustus still constituted a separate district undertheir own native chieftain, though dependent uponKoine, and, from the reign of Nero to that of Con*-stantine, still formed a t-eparate province, were incor­porated by Con»tantine with Liguria; and from thisperiod the whole of the region thus constituted cameto be fcuown as the Alves Cottiae, while the nameof Liguria was transferred (on what acoount weknow not) to the eleventh region, or Gallia Trans*padana [Italia, p. 93]. Hence we find late writersuniformly speaking of Mediolanum and Ticinnm ascities of Liguria, while the real land of the Ligurianshad altogether lost that appellation, and was knownonly as "the province of the Cottian Alps." {Lib.1'rorinc. ; 1\ Disc. Jlist. Lang. ii. 15, 16; Jornand.Get. 30, 42; IVocop. B. G. i.14; Bo* king, ad Not.Ltifjji. ii. pp. 442, 443.) It is evident that longbefore this change took place the Ligurians musthave lost all traces of their distinct nationality, andbecome blended into one common mass with theother Italian subjects of Rome. Liguria is throughout the greater part of its ex­tent a mountainous country. The Maritime Alps,which formed the western boundary, descend com­pletely to the sea in the neighbourhood of AVoe aikl