OCR Output CHAP. XLI.J OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. 105 two years afterward, when despair had armed that officeragainst his general, her sanguinary advice decided andhastened his execution. Even the indignation of Pho-tius was not forgiven by his mother; the exile of her sonprepared the recal of her lover; and Theodosius conde­scended to accept the pressing and humble invitation ofthe conqueror of Italy. In the absolute direction of hishousehold, and in the important commissions of peaceand war,z the favourite youth most rapidly acquired a for­tune of four hundred thousand pounds sterling; and,after their return to Constantinople, the passion of An-tonina, at least, continued ardent and unabated. Butfear, devotion, and lassitude, perhaps, inspired Theodo­sius with more serious thoughts. He dreaded the busyscandal of the capital, and the indiscreet fondness of thewife of Belisarius; escaped from her embraces, and, re­tiring to Ephesus, shaved his head, and took refuge inthe sanctuary of a monastic life. The despair of the newAriadne could scarcely have been excused by the deathof her husband. She wept, she tore her hair, she filledthe palace with her cries; "she had lost the dearest offriends, a tender, a faithful, a laborious friend!" But herwarm entreaties, fortified by the prayers of Belisarius,were insufficient to draw the holy monk from the soli­tude of Ephesus. It was not till the general moved for­ward for the Persian war, that Theodosius could betempted to return to Constantinople; and the short in­terval before the departure of Antonina herself was boldlydevoted to love and pleasure. A philosopher may pity and forgive the infirmities of Resentmentfemale nature, from which he receives no real injury ; "ius «nd'but contemptible is the husband who feels, and yet en- p"°J°"s.dures, his own infamy in that of his wife. Antoninapursued her son with implacable hatred; and the gallant z In November 537, Photius arrested the pope. (Liberat. Brev. c. 22. Pagi. tom.2. p. 562.) About the end of 539, Belisarius sent Theodosius—tov n owia, t>i *utovi4>wr«rtt—on an important aud lucrative commission to Ravenna. (Goth. lib. 2.e. 18.)