OCR Output CHAP. LI. 393 lous: the turrets glittered from afar; an ample spacewas covered with public and private buildings; and thecitizens were illustrious by their spirit, or at least by theirpride, by their riches, or at least by their luxury. Inthe days of Paganism, both Emesa and Heliopolis wereaddicted to the worship of Baal, or the sun; but thedecline of their superstition and splendour has beenmarked by a singular variety of fortune. Not a vestigeremains of the temple of Emesa, which was equalled inpoetic style to the summits of mount Libanus," while theruins of Baalbec, invisible to the writers of antiquity,excite the curiosity and wonder of the European travel­ler.1' The measure of the temple is two hundred feet inlength, and one hundred in breadth: the front is adornedwith a double portico of eight columns; fourteen maybe counted on either side; and each column, forty-fivefeet in height, is composed of three massy blocks of stoneor marble. The proportions and ornaments of the Co­rinthian order express the architecture of the Greeks;but as Baalbec has never been the seat of a monarch,we are at a loss to conceive how the expense of thesemagnificent structures could be supplied by private ormunicipal liberality.0 From the conquest of Damascus • Emess fastigia celsa renident Nam diffusa solo latus explicat; ac subit auras Tunibus in ccelum nitentibus: incola Claris Cor stndiis acuit .... Denique flammicomo devoti pectora soli Vitam agitant. Libanus frondosa cacnmina turget, Et tamen his certant celsi fastigia templi. These verses of the Latin version of Rufus Avienus are wanting in the Greek ori­ginal of Dionysius 1 and since they are likewise unnoticed by Eustathius, I must,with Fabricius (Bibliot. Latin, torn. 3. p. 153. edit. Erneeti), and against Sahnasins,(ad Vopiscum, p. 366,367. in Hist. August.) ascribe them to the fancy rather thanto the MSS. of Avienus. 6 I am much better satisfied with Maundrell's slight octavo (Journey, p. 134—139.) than with the pompous folio of Dr. Pocock; (Description of the East, vol. 2.p. 106—113.) but every preceding account is eclipsed by the magnificent, descrip­tion and drawings of MM. Dawkins and Wood, who have transported into Eng­land the ruins of Palmyra and Baalbec. c The orientals explain the prodigy by a never-failing expedient. The edifices ofBaalbec were constructed by the fairies or the genii. (Hist, de Timour Bee, torn.3.lib. 5. c. 23. p. 311, 312. Voyage d'Otter, torn. 1. p. 83.) With less absurdity, butwith equal ignorance, Abulfeda and Ibn Chaukel ascribe them to the Sabsans orAadites. Nonsunt inomni Syria sdificiamagnificentiorahis. (Tabula Syris, p. 103.)