OCR Output 26 LIVY. Roman people. On the same terms with these theAricians, Nomentans, and Pedans, were received intothe number of citizens. To the Tusculans the rightsof citizens, of which they were already in possession,were continued ; and the guilt of the rebellion, insteadof being imputed to disaffection in the state, was thrownon a few incendiaries. On the Veliternians, who wereRoman citizens of an old standing, in resentment oftheir having so often arisen in rebellion, severe ven­geance was inflicted : their walls were rased, and theirsenate driven into banishment; they were also enjoinedto dwell on the farther side of the Tiber, with a denun­ciation that if any of them should be caught on thehither side of that river, the fine to be paid for his dis­charge should be no less than one thousand asses,1 andthat the person apprehending him should not releasehim from confinement until the money should be paid.Into the lands which had belonged to their senatorscolonists were sent, from the addition of whose num­bers Velitraa recovered the appearance of its formerpopulousness. To Antium, also, a new colony wassent, permission being granted at the same time to theAntians of having themselves inrolled therein if theychose it. The ships of war were taken from them, audthe people wholly interdicted from meddling with ma­ritime affairs; but the rights of citizens were granted corporate towns, where the people retained their own lawsand magistrates, and even honored with the title, and someof them with all the rights and privileges of Roman citizens.The people of Caere were the first who were thus indulgedwith full rights; but afterwards, having joined some neigh­boring states in a war against Rome, all the privileges of ci­tizens were taken from them, and the title only left. In othercountries they planted colonies of their own citizens; bywhich means they disburdened the city of numbers of uselessand poor inhabitants, and at the same time formed barriersagainst the adjoining states. Colonists retained all the rightsof citizens, chose their own magistrates, and formed a kind ofpetty republics under that of Rome. Other countries weremade prefectures, deprived of their own laws and magistrates,and governed by a prefect sent annually from Rome,1 3i.4s.7d.