OCR Output Discourse hi. xcvii " ought to believe it, and to prepare for their defence. Fear" will unite all Sicily against the invaders. Athens will onlyu reap disgrace, but Syracuse abundant glory on this occasion." Large armaments are seldom successful; they moulder" away for want of supplies, or are ruined for want of con-" duct. They should therefore prepare for gallant resistance," by getting every thing in readiness at home, and strength-" ening themselves by foreign alliances. They should do" more ; they should at once put out to sea, and dispute their" very passage with the enemy. A defeat, or even delay" thus given them, might oblige them to give up the pro-"ject. He supports his advice by many strong and judici-" ous arguments ; and ends with warm exhortations to his" countrymen to be lively and active, by no means to de-" spise the enemy except in action, but vigorously and with" all their foresight to prepare for resistance, since their ene-" mies are undoubtedly at sea, and only not arrrived on their" coasts." Such advice was now given to the people of Syracuse byHermocrates. , That community, it is evident, was full ofcabal and faction, since this worthy patriot was regarded asa party-tool and a public incendiary. Athenagoras, the blus­tering demagogue who replies, treats him in this light. Hisvirulence shews, that he regarded Hermocrates, as one whowanted by any means whatever to force himself into employ­ment. He seems more alarmed for the lucrative posts of theState than for the welfare of his country. He throws out adeal of good-sense, but in a very impertinent and scurrilousmanner. Such are the persons, who study popularity morethan duty, and sacrifice all their talents to ambition or privatelucre. He affirms, that " none but cowards and traitors wish" the Athenians might not invade them, and so infallibly" meet their destruction : But the whole account is a glaring" falsehood, the forgery of a factious cabal. He appeals to" his audience whether it carries the least probability with Vol. I. N