OCR Output CHAP. LI. 361 invaded the successors of Augustus, and those of Ar-taxerxes; and the rival monarchies at the same instantbecame the prey of an enemy whom they had been solong accustomed to despise. In the ten years of theadministration of Omar, the Saracens reduced to hisobedience thirty-six thousand cities or castles, destroyedfour thousand churches or temples of the unbelievers,and edified fourteen hundred moschs for the exercise ofthe religion of Mahomet. One hundred years after hisflight from Mecca, the arms and the reign of his suc­cessors extended from India to the Atlantic ocean, overthe various and distant provinces, which may be com­prised under the names of, I. Persia; II. Syria; III.Egypt; IV. Africa; and, V. Spain. Under this generaldivision, I shall proceed to unfold these memorabletransactions; dispatching with brevity the remote andless interesting conquests of the east, and reserving afuller narrative for those domestic countries, which hadbeen included within the pale of the Roman empire.Yet I must excuse my own defects by a just complaintof the blindness and insufficiency of my guides. TheGreeks, so loquacious in controversy, have not beenanxious to celebrate the triumphs of their enemies.kAfter a century of ignorance, the first annals of the Mus­sulmans were collected in a great measure from the voiceof tradition.1 Among the numerous productions of k For the seventh and eighth centuries, we have scarcely any original evidenceof the Byzantine historians, except the chronicles ofTheophanes (Theophanis Cou-fessoris Chronographia, Gr. et Lit. cum noti-, Jacobi Goar. Paris, 1655, in folio);and the abridgment of Nicephorus (Nicephori Patriarchae C. P. Breviarum His-toricum, Gr. et Lat. Paris, 1648, in folio); who both lived in the beginning of theninth century, (see flam-kins de Scriptor. Byzant. p. 200—246.) Their contem­porary Pholius does not seem to be more opulent. After praising the style ofNicephorus, he adds, Kai i\x; iroXXoi*; ITI Ttn wp» aimv avoxfuvrojunc; Tjii THCicrT;.;ia.-, TI fvt^fa^v, and only complains of his extreme brevity. (Phot. Bibliot.cod. 66. p. 100.) Some additions may be gleaned from the more recent historiesof Cedrenus and Zonaras of the twelfth century. . 'Tabari, or Al Tabari, a native of Taborestan, a famous imam of Bagdad, andthe 1 ,i v v of the Arabians, finished his general history in the year of the Hegira S03.(A.I). 914.) At the request of his friends, he reduced a work of thirty thousandsheets to a more reasonable size. But his Arabic original is known only by thePersian and Turkish versions. The Saracenic history of Ebn Amid, or Klmacin,is said to be an abridgment of the great Tabari. (Ockley's Hist, of the Saracens,vol.2. preface, p. 39. aud, list of authors, d'Herbclot, p. 866. 870. 1014.)