OCR Output 226 LIVY. creed in regard to the province of Bruttium, was or­dered to be followed in respect of Etruria and Liguria.Marcus Cornelius was ordered to deliver the army tothe new consul; and, his command being continued,to hold the proviuce of Gaul, with those legions whichLucius Scribonius, pretor, had commanded the yearbefore. The consuls then cast lots for the provinces:Bruttium fell to Caspio, Etruria to Servilius Geminus.The provinces of the pretors were next put to the lot:Paetus iElius obtained the city jurisdiction; CneiusLentulus, Sardinia; Publius Villius, Sicily; Quin-tilius Varus, Ariminum, with two legions, which hadbeen under Lucretius Spurius. Lucretius remainedon his station, in order that he might rebuild the cityof Genoa, which had been'demolished by Mago theCarthaginian. Publius Scipio's command was conti­nued, not for a period limited by time, but by the bu­siness, until an end should be put to the war in Africa;and it was decreed that a supplication should he per­formed, to obtain from the gods, that his havingpassed into Africa might prove happy to the people, tothe general himself, and to the army. 2. Three thousand men were raised for Sicily; andbecause whatever strength it had possessed was car­ried over to Carthage, it was resolved that the coastof that island should be guarded by forty ships, lestany fleet should come thither from Africa. Villiuscarried with him to Sicily thirteen new ships; the restwere old ones repaired there. Marcus Pomponius,pretor of the former year (his command of this fleetbeing continued), took on board the new soldiers. Anequal number of ships were decreed by the senate toCneius Octavius, pretor likewise of the former year,with the same right of command, in order to protectthe coast of Sardinia. Lentulus, pretor, was orderedto supply the fleet with two thousand soldiers. Thedefence of the coast of Italy was intrusted to MarcusMarcius, pretor of the former year, with the samenumber of ships; because it was uncertain to whatplace the Carthaginians might direct their attack,