OCR Output 454 FLAVIUSJ0SEPHU3 [B. IT. must leave off their spite against us. Nor are we guilty ofany envious behavior towards them when we honor our ownlegislator, and believe what he, by his prophetic authority,hath taught us concerning God: for though we should notbe able ourselves to understand the excellency of our ownlaws, yet would the great multitude of those that desire toimitate them justify us in greatly valuing ourselves uponthem. 41. But as for the [distinct] political laws by which we aregoverned, I have delivered them accurately in my books ofAntiquities: and have only mentioned them now so far aswas necessary to my present purpose, without proposing tomyself either to blame the laws of other nations or to makean encomium upon our own; but in order to convict thosethat have written about us unjustly, and in an impudentaffectation of disguising the truth. And now I think I havesufficiently completed what I proposed in writing these books :for whereas our accusers have pretended that our nation area people of a very late original, I have demonstrated thatthey are exceeding ancient; for I have produced as wit足nesses thereto many ancient writers who have made mentionof us in their books, while they said that no such writer hadso done. Moreover, they had said that we were sprung fromthe Egyptians, while I have proved that we came from an足other country into Egypt: while they had told lies of us, asif we were expelled thence on account of diseases on our bo足dies, it has appeared, on the contrary, that we returned toour own country by our own choice, and with sound andstrong bodies. Those accusers reproached our legislator asa vile fellow; whereas God in old time bare witness to hisvirtuous conduct; and since that testimony of God, timoitself hath been discovered to have borne witness to the samething. 42. As to the laws themselves, more words are unnecessary,for they are visible in their own nature, and appear to teachnot impiety, but the truest piety in the world. They do notmake men hate one another, but encourage people to com足municate what they have to one another freely: they are