OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. i ened the life of his son, and of his friends, and of all who ven­tured to approach his person. The grateful intelligence of thedeath of the Gordiaris, was quickly followed By the assurance thatthe senate, laying aside all hopes of pardon or accommodation, hadsubstituted in their room two emperors, with whose merit he couldnot be unacquainted. Revenge was the Only consolation left toMaximin, and revenge could only be obtained by arms. Thestrength of the legions had been assembled by Alexander from allparts of the empire. Three successful campaigns against theGermans and the Sarmatians, had raised (heir fame, confirmed theirdiscipline, and even increased their numbers, by filling the rankswith the flower of the barbarian youth. The life of Maximin hadbeen spent in War, and the candid severity of history cannot refusehim the valour of a soldier, or even the abilities of an experiencedgeneral}0. It might naturally be expected, that a prince of such a cha­racter, instead of suffering the rebellion to gain stability by delay, mouldimmediately have maYched from the banks of the Danube to tholeof the Tyber, and that his victorious army, instigated by contemptfor the senate, and eager to gather the spoils of Italy, should haveburned with impatience to finish the easy and lucrative conquest.Yet as far as we can trust to the obscure chronology of that periodit appears that the Operations of some foreign war deferred theItalian expedition to the ensuing spring. From the prudent con­duct of Maximin, we may learn that the savage features of hischaracter have been exaggerated by the pencil of party, that his'passions, however impetuous, submitted to the force of reason, andthat the barbarian possessed something of the generous spirit ofSylla, who subdued the enemies of Rome, before he suffered himselfto reverige his private injuriesWhen the troops of Maximin, advancing in excellent order, Marches ;nto Italy. arrived at the foot of the Julian Alps, they were terrified by the a. d. 238.silence and desolation that reigned on the frontiers of Italy. The Febraary' B b 2 villages