OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, 05 boundless, and perhaps chimerical. The king of Austrasia threatened to chas­tise Justinian, and to march to the gates of Constantinople:^) he was overthrownand slain(2) by a wild bull,(3) as he hunted in the Belgic or German forests. As soon as Belisarius was delivered from his foreign and domestic enemies, heseriously applied his forces to the final reduction of Italy. Jn the siege of Osimo,the general was nearly transpierced with an arrow, if the mortal stroke had notbeen intercepted by one of his guards, who lost, in that pious office, the use of hishand. The Goths of Osimo, four thousand warriors, witn those of Ficsulx and theCottian Alps, were among the last who maintained their independence; and theirgallant resistance, which almost tired the patience, deserved the esteem of theconqueror. His prudence refused to subscribe the safe conduct which they asked,to join their brethren of Ravenna; but they saved, by an honourable capitulation,one moiety at least of their wealth, with the free alternative of retiring peaceablyto their estates, or enlisting to serve the emperor in his Persian wars. The mul­titudes, which yet adhered to the standard of Vitiges, far surpassed the numberof the Roman troops; but neither prayers, nor defiance, nor the extreme dangerof his most faithful subjects, could tempt the Gothic king beyond the fortificationsof Ravenna. These fortifications were, indeed, impregnable to the assaults ofart or violence; and when Belisarius invested the capital, he was soon convincedthat famine only could tame the stubborn spirit of the barbarians. The sea, theland, and the channels of the Po, were guarded by the vigilance of the Romangeneral; and his morality extended the rights of war to the practice of poisoningthe waters,(4) and secretly firing the granaries(S) of a besieged city.(fi) Whilehe pressed the blockade of Ravenna, he was surprised by the arrival of two am­bassadors from Constantinople, with a treaty of peace, which Justinian had im­prudently signed, without deigning to consult the author of his victory. By thisdisgraceful and precarious agreement, Italy and the Gothic treasure were divided,and the provinces beyond the Po were left with the regal title to the successor ofTheodoric. The ambassadors were eager to accomplish their salutary commis­sion; the captive Vitiges accepted, with trausport, the unexpected offer of a crown;honour was less prevalent among the Goths, than the want and appetite of food;and the Roman chiefs, who murmured at the continuance of the war, professedimplicit submission to the commands of the emperor. If Belisarius had possessedonly the courage of a soldier, the laurel would have been snatched from his handby timid and envious counsels; but, in this decisive moment, he resolved, with themagnanimity of a statesman, to sustain alone the danger and merit of generousdisobedience. Each of his officers gave a written opinion, that the siege of Ra­venna was impracticable and hopeless: the general then rejected the treaty ofpartition, and declared his own resolution of leading Vitiges in chains to the feetof Justinian. The Goths retired with doubt and dismay: this peremptory refusaldeprived them of the only signature which they could trust, and filled their minds•with a just apprehension, that a sagacious enemy had discovered the full extentof their deplorable state. They compared the fame and fortune of Belisarius withthe weakness of their ill-fated king; and the comparison suggested an extraordi­nary project, to which Vitiges, with apparent resignation, was compelled to acqui­esce. Partition would ruin the strength, exile would disgrace the honour, of thenation; but they offered their arms, their treasures, and the fortifications of Ra- (1) Agathias, lib. i. p. ;4,'l5. Could he haw seduced or subdned the Gepidtc or Lombards of Pannonia, theGreek historian is confident that he roust have been destroyed in Thraoe. (2) The king pointed his spear—the hull overturned a tree on his head—he expired the same day. Such isthe story of Agathias; but the original historians of France (torn. ii. p. 202. *>3. 5S8. t)67.) impute his death to * (S)'without losing myself in a labyrinth of species and names— the aurochs, urns, bisons,bubalus. bonasus,buffalo, See. (Button Hist. Nat. torn. xi. and Supplement, torn. iii. 6.) it is certain, that in the sixth century alarge wild species of horned cattle was hunted in the great forests of the Vosges in Lorraine, and the Ardenuca(Greg. Turon. torn. ii. lib. x. c. 10. p. 369.) ,, , . (4) In the siege of Auximum, he first laboured to demolish an old aqueduct, and then cast into the stream,I. dead bodies: 2. miichievious herbs: and. 3. quicklime, which is named (says Procopius, lib. ii. c. 29.) i.t».«;by the ancients: bv the modems wo.;™.. Yet both words are used as synonymous in Galen, Dioscorides,and Lnoian. (Hen. Steph. Thesaur. Ling. Cirxc. torn. iii. p. 748.) ... (5) The Goths suspected Mathasuintha as an accomplice in the mischief, which perhaps was occasioned byaccidental lightning. . . . J? . „ (ft) In strict philosophy, a limitation nf the rights of war seems to imply nonsense and contradiction. Gro-tins himself is lost in an idle distinction between the jus natnra and the jus gentium, between poison and in­fection. He balances in one scale the passages of Homer, (Odyss. A.239. ctcjsud i lorus (lib. n. c. 20. \n. 7.silt.) and in the oilier, the examples of Solon (Pmiianius, lib. x. e. 37.) and Belisarius. See his great work Delure Belli et Pacis lib. iii. e. 4. s. 15-17., and in Barheyrac's version, torn. li. p. 2S7, fce. Yet I tan understandthe benefit and validity of an agreement, tacit or espress, mutually to abstain Irom ctrla.n lnodts ol htiitili'ytiee the Amphietyomc oa'.h in Kschines dc J-alsa L' gatii ne. Vol. III. d