OCR Output 102 LIVY. point them consuls for the next year; and that both.Livius and Nero added their authority to this recom­mendation, representing next day in the assembly thebravery and fidelity which the said lieutenants-generalhad manifested in the service. 10. When the time of the elections arrived, as ithad been determined that they should be held by adictator, the consul Caius Claudius nominated his col­league Marcus Livius to that office. Livius appointedQuintus Caecilius master of the horse. By Marcus Li­vius were elected consuls, Lucius Veturius and Quin­tus Caecilius, who was then master of the horse. Theelection of pretors was next held: there were ap­pointed Caius Servilius, Marcus Caecilius Metellus,Tiberius Claudius Asellus, and Quintus Mamilius Tu-rinus, at that time plebeian edile. When the electionswere finished, the dictator, having laid down his officeand dismissed his army, set out for his province ofEtruria, in pursuance of a decree of the senate, inorder to make inquiries what states of the Tuscans orUmbrians had, on the approach of Hasdrubal, formedschemes of revolting to him from the Romans; or whohad afforded him men, provisions, or any kind of aid.Such were the transactions of that year at home andabroad. The Roman games were thrice repeated bythe curule ediles, Cneius Servilius Caspio and ServiusCornelius Lentulus. The plebeian games also wereonce repeated intire by the plebeian ediles, ManiasPomponius Matho and Quintus Mamilius Thurinus.[A.U. C. 646. B.C. 206.] In the thirteenth year ofthe Punic war, when Lucius Veturius Philo and Quin­tus Cheilius Metellus were consuls, they were bothappointed to the province of Bruttium, to conduct thewar against Hannibal. The pretors then cast lots fortheir provinces: the business of the city fell to Mar­cus Caecilius Metellus; the jurisdiction in relation toforeigners, to Quintus Mamilius; Sicily, to CaiusServilius; and Sardinia, to Tiberius Claudius. Thearmies were thus distributed: to one of the consuls,that which had been under Caius Claudius, the consulof the former year; to the other, that which had been