OCR Output OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE. would prefer even a female scepter to the sanctity of the Romanlaws. The consul then addressing himself to Tacitus, the first ofthe senators *, required his opinion on the important subject of aproper candidate for the vacant throne. If we can prefer personal merit to accidental greatness, we shall charter ofesteem the birth of Tacitus more truly noble than that of kings. Tacitas*He claimed his descent from the philosophic historian, whose writ­ings will instruct the last generations of mankind 5. The senatorTacitus was then seventy-five years of age 6. The long period ofhis innocent life was adorned with wealth and honours. He hadtwice been invested with the consular dignity 7, and enjoyed his am­ple patrimony of between two and three millions sterling with ele­gance and sobriety 8. The experience of so many princes, whomhe had esteemed or endured, from the vain follies of Elagabalus tothe useful rigour of Aurelian, taught him to form a just estimate ofthe duties, the dangers, and the temptations, of their sublimestation. From the assiduous study of his immortal ancestor he derivedthe knowledge of the Roman constitution, and of human natureThe voice of the people had already named Tacitus as the citizenthe most worthy of empire. The ungrateful rumour reached hisears, and induced him to seek the retirement of one of his villas inCampania. He had pasted two months in the delightful privacy ofFaiæ, when he reluctantly obeyed the summons of the consul toresume his honourable place in the senate, and to assist the republicwith his counsels' on this important occasion. He arose to speak, when, from every quarter of the house, he was He is electedsaluted with the names of Augustus and emperor. *' Tacitus Au- empcr0r»"gustus, the gods preserve thee, we chuse thee for our sovereign .•*Mto thy care we entrust the republic and the world. Accept the** empire from the authority of the senate. It is due to thy rank,**• to thy conduct, to thy manners." As soon as the tumult of ac­clamations subsided, Tacitus attempted to decline the dangerous honour,