OCR Output SILVER VESSELS. Go the same Africanus, at his triumph, distributed to his soldiersseven denarii a-piece. Men worthy indeed of such a general, tobe satisfied with this! His brother, Allobrogicus, was the firstwho had as much as 1,000 lbs. weight; and Livius Drusus, whenhe was tribune of the people, 10,000 lbs. At this day it appearsincredible, that an individual, after having had the honour of atriumph, should have been reproved in his old age by the censors,because he possessed 5 lbs. weight of silver. And likewise thatCatus JSlius, when the ambassadors of the iEtolians came to him,and found him dining off earthen ware, would not receive the silvervessels that were presented to him, and never, to the last day of hislife, possessed any silver utensils, except two cups, which L. Pau-Ius, his father-in-law, gave him on account of his valour, when heconquered King Perseus. It was a saying of the Carthaginianambassadors, that no people are kinder to each other than theRomans; for they used the same service of plate at all the dif­ferent houses. And we know for a certainty, that Pompeius Pau-linus, the son of a Roman knight of Aries, and a person of a veryhonourable family,6 was banished to a barbarous country, becausehe had in his army 12 lbs. weight of silver. 51. WHEN SILVER WAS FIRST ADDED TO COUCHES. The couches 7 of the women have been, for some time past, en­tirely covered with silver, and this is the case sometimes with thecouches which are used at meals.8 Cavilius Pollio is said to havebeen the first who introduced this custom, not entirely coveringthem, after the Delian mode, but according to the Carthaginian.He also employed gold for the same purpose; and it was not longafter this time that silver couches were used, like those from Delos.But all this was expiated by the civil war of Sylla. 6 " Paternaque gente pellitum;" whose family were privileged to wear aparticular dress. This expression has been supposed to be illustrated by aline in Claudian, "Crinigeri sedere patres, pellita Getarum "Curia." De Bell. Get. 481, 2. »" Lecti." s " Triclinia.'' This word is applied sometimes to the couches used atmeals, so named because they held three persons each, and sometimes tothe room in which the meals were taken. In Vitruvius, vi. 5 and 8, it re-it refers to the room, in vi. 6. it refers to the couches. Newton, Trans, note,p. 137, remarks, " the triclinium or triclinia (as in the eighth chapter fol­lowing) was the dining room; the word is sometimes used for the diningtable, and surrounding couches on which they lay to eat." F