OCR Output 82 [A.U.C. 769. THE ANNALS up to the intrenchments, and, in the name of Armi-nius, proclaimed aloud a promise of wives and landsto every deserter, besides a hundred sesterces for hisdaily pay, during the continuance of the war. Thiswas felt as an affront: the soldiers cried out with in­dignation, " The dawn of day shall see us in the" field: let Arminius risk a battle: the lands of his" countrymen shall be ours by conquest, and their" wives shall be carried off in captivity. The offer is" an omcu of victory. The wealth and the women of" Germany shall be the reward of valour." At thethird watch, the enemy advanced to the intrench­ments; but perceiving the works properly guarded,the cohorts under arms, and all intent on duty, theyretreated, without so much as throwing a single dart. XIV. Germanicus retired to rest, and in his sleepwas favoured with a joyful vision. Being employed,as he imagined, at a sacrifice, and. the blood of thevictim happening to stain his pontifical garment, hisgrand-mother Livia made him a present of anotherrobe, no less beautiful than magnificent. Pleased withthis prognostic, which the auspices confirmed, hecalled an assembly of the soldiers, and, in a speech,acquainted them with his plan for the ensuing battle.The open plain, he observed, was not the only spotwhere the Romans could engage with advantage.Woods and forests were equally favourable. Theunwieldy buckler of the Germans, and that enormouslength of spear, which, amidst surrounding trees andinterwoven thickets, was scarcely manageable, couldnot be compared to the Roman sword, the javelin,and their defensive armour, so well adapted to theshape and motions of the body. " Redouble your" blows," he said," and strike at the face of the enemy." They have neither helmets, nor breast-plates. Their"shields are neither riveted with iron, nor covered" with hides; they are nothing but ozier twigs inter-" twined, or slight boards, daubed over with glaring" colours. In the foremost ranks a few are provided" with pikes and javelins; in the rest of their army" you see nothing but stakes hardened in the fire, or" weapons too short for execution. The aspect of